(Hybrid Mode)

[Per: Arun Baroka, Member (Technical)]

 These two Appeals have been filed against order dated 18 November 2024

passed by the Competition Commission of India under Section 27 of the

Competition Act, 2002. The Competition Appeal No. 1 of 2025 has been filed by

WhatsApp LLC and Competition Appeal No. 2 of 2025 has been filed by Meta

Platforms, Inc.

Introduction of Appeal 2. The Competition Commission of India, in its Order dated 18 November

2024, found that WhatsApp (Meta) abused dominance by using a 2021 privacy

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 3 of 184
 policy to impose unfair conditions on users leverage dominance in OTT

messaging Apps through smartphones in India to strengthen Meta's position in

online display advertising and imposed a ₹213.14 crore penalty and remedy of

a 5-year restriction on sharing WhatsApp user data with other Meta companies

for advertising. The impugned order has found the Appellants to have violated

the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002 ('Act') through imposition of

WhatsApp privacy policy of 2021 ('2021 Policy'). 3. The Impugned Order arises out of the Commission's suo motu

investigation into WhatsApp LLC's (WhatsApp) January 2021 update to its

Terms of Service and Privacy Policy (2021 Update), finds that Meta - 'through

WhatsApp' - abused its dominance by: [Paragraphs 235 and 245, Impugned Order]

Based on these findings, the Commission imposed: penalty of INR 213.14 crore

[Paragraphs 263, Impugned Order]; and, imposed some other remedies. 4. The Appellant-Meta in Competition Appeal No. 2 of 2025 is a company

incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States, and has its

registered office at 1 Meta Way, Menlo Park, California 94025, United States of

America. It provides among others, the Facebook branded service (i.e.,

www.facebook.com and corresponding applications for mobile devices and

tablets), the Instagram branded service (i.e., www.instagram.com and

corresponding applications for mobile devices and tablets) and the Messenger

branded service (i.e., www.messenger.com and corresponding applications for

mobile devices and tablets) to users in India. 5. Respondent No. 4, in Competition Appeal No. 2 of 2025 and Appellant i.e.,

WhatsApp, was founded in 2009 and claims to offer the WhatsApp service,

which is today a free communication service that is used by people and

businesses around the world. It claims to offer simple, secure, and reliable

messaging (text, photo, files, video and audio messages) and calling (both voice

and video), connecting people with those they care about most, effortlessly and

privately. WhatsApp claims to have built its service on a foundation of user

privacy and security and claims to creating a private and secure space where

users can freely communicate. WhatsApp offers users throughout the world,

including over 400 million users in India, a state-of-the-art end-to-end

encrypted messaging service. Every personal message sent on WhatsApp -- be

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 5 of 184
 it text, call, voice note, or video -- uses the same industry-leading Signal

encryption protocol that protects messages before they are sent until they are

delivered to the intended recipient. The privacy and security of users' personal

messages and calls with friends, and family are protected by end-to-end

encryption, and no one can read or listen to them - not even WhatsApp. It is to

be noted that on 14 February 2014 WhatsApp was acquired by Facebook, Inc.

(Now Meta) and is now owned by Meta. 6. Prior to WhatsApp's 2016 update to its Terms of Service and Privacy

Policy, which launched on 25 August 2016 (2016 Update), the agreement

between WhatsApp and its users was governed by the Terms of Service and

Privacy Policy dated 7 July 2012 (2012 Privacy Policy). The 2012 Privacy Policy

allowed for the sharing of information with third parties for a variety of

purposes, as stated in that policy. For example, WhatsApp had the right to share

user information "with third party service providers to the extent that it is

reasonably necessary to perform, improve or maintain the WhatsApp Service," 7. On 25 August 2016, WhatsApp updated its Terms of Service and Privacy

Policy to, among other things, reflect new features it introduced to enhance the

services it provides to its users, such as WhatsApp Calling and end-to-end

encryption of its users' messages. WhatsApp also notified users that it had been

acquired by Meta in 2014 and explained how they will work together. Users who

were already using WhatsApp prior to the 2016 Update were given a one-time

opportunity, available for 30 days following the release of the 2016 Update, to

opt-out of sharing their WhatsApp account information with Meta for these Meta

advertisements and product uses (2016 Opt-out). Users who joined WhatsApp

after the release of the 2016 Update were not offered this opt-out option. 8. The 2016 Update was challenged before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in 1Karmanya Singh Sareen v. Union of India & Others , W.P. (C) 7663 of 2016,

(Karmanya, Delhi High Court) and the Hon'ble Delhi High Court upheld the

2016 Update and dismissed the petition vide its judgment dated 23 September

2016, holding: We are therefore of the view that it is always open to the existing users of
 "WhatsApp" who do not want their information to be shared with Facebook
 to opt for deletion of their account." (emphasis added) [Paragraph 19,
 Karmanya, Delhi High Court] 1 Karmanya Singh Sareen v. Union of India & Others , W.P. (C) 7663 of 2016, Delhi High Court upheld the 2016 Update
and dismissed the petition vide its judgment dated 23 September 2016: SCC Online Del 5334

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 7 of 184 9. Thereafter, the above judgment was challenged before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in 2Karmanya Sareen v. Union of India, SLP (C) No. 804 of

2017 (Karmanya, Hon'ble Supreme Court). On 25 April 2017, IFF (i.e.,

Respondent No. 3) filed an application before the Hon'ble Supreme Court

seeking permission to intervene and assist the Court in the matter. On 25

January 2021, IFF filed an interim application seeking to injunct the 2021

Update as: 10. A constitutional bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court declined to issue

interim relief, despite the request of the petitioners in that matter, and the

matter remains pending. 11. On 1 June 2017, the Commission in Vinod Kumar Gupta v. WhatsApp

Inc., Case No. 99 of 2016 (3Vinod Gupta CCI), dismissed allegations of abuse

of dominance by WhatsApp in relation to the 2016 Update at the prima facie

stage itself. On 2 August 2022, this Hon'ble Tribunal in Vinod Kumar Gupta v.

Competition Commission of India, Competition Appeal No. (AT ) 13 of 2017

(4Vinod Gupta NCLAT), upheld the Commission's decision of the Commission 2 Supreme Court in Karmanya Sareen v. Union of India, SLP (C) No. 804 of 2017 (Karmanya, Hon'ble Supreme Court) 3 Vinod Gupta CCI: Vinod Kumar Gupta v. WhatsApp Inc., Case No. 99 of 2016: On 1 June 2017, the Commission
dismissed allegations of abuse of dominance by WhatsApp in relation to the 2016 Update at the prima facie stage
itself 4 Vinod Gupta NCLAT: NCLAT in Vinod Kumar Gupta v. Competition Commission of India, Competition Appeal No.
(AT ) 13 of 2017: On 2 August 2022, upheld the Commission's decision of dismissing allegations of abuse of
dominance by WhatsApp in relation to the 2016 Update

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 8 of 184
 dismissing allegations of abuse of dominance by WhatsApp in relation to the

2016 Update at the prima facie stage itself. WhatsApp's 2021 update 12. On 4 January 2021, WhatsApp announced that it was updating the Terms

of Service and Privacy Policy (2021 Update) applicable to the use of WhatsApp's

services, and published a persistent banner on its website (available at

www.whatsapp.com). After WhatsApp released its 2021 Update, it claims that

rumours and misinformation about the 2021 Update began to spread. For

example, media reports incorrectly suggested that all WhatsApp messages were

no longer end-to-end encrypted and that WhatsApp would be sharing message

content with Meta. To address this misinformation, WhatsApp promptly

engaged in a user awareness campaign to help everyone better understand

WhatsApp's privacy/protective principles and the facts, which included, among

other things, publishing information that corrected the misinformation.

WhatsApp released a Help Centre Article dated 12 January 2021 titled

"Answering your questions about WhatsApp's Privacy Policy" that made clear

that even after the 2021 update: (i) users' personal messages will remain end-

to-end encrypted and WhatsApp would not be able to see, or share with Meta,

those messages; and (ii) WhatsApp does not share users' contact lists with Meta

(among other data points). On 13 January 2021, WhatsApp also placed full-

page newspaper advertisements in popular national newspapers (such as, the

Times of India and the Indian Express) in India to ensure that users across India

were provided with the facts about the 2021 Update. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 9 of 184 13. WhatsApp claims it also decided to give users more time to consider the

2021 Update and published a blog post titled "Giving More Time For Our Recent

Update" (15 January Blog Post), informing users that they have until 15 May

2021 -- more than 4 months after WhatsApp first released the 2021 Update

notice -- to review and consider the 2021 Update at their own pace. 14. Further, on 18 February 2021 WhatsApp issued a Help Center Article

titled "About data sharing to improve people's ads and product experiences on

Facebook" clarifying that it continues to honour the 2016 Opt-out and the 2021

Update does not alter this commitment. 15. On 7 May 2021, WhatsApp released an official statement (7 May

Commitment) that no account will be deleted in India on 15 May 2021 nor would

users lose functionality because of the 2021 Update when communicating with

friends and family at least until a personal data protection legislation comes

into effect in India. The 7 May Commitment was published on the WhatsApp

website and was widely reported by various newspapers in India.

Proceedings before the Commission 16. On 24 March 2021, the Commission issued an order (PF Order- Prima

Facie Order) under 5Section 26(1) of the Competition Act in Suo Moto Case No. 5 Section 26. Procedure for inquiry under section 19 . 26. Procedure for inquiry under section 19 .--(1) On receipt of a reference from the Central Government or a State
Government or a statutory authority or on its own knowledge or information received under section 19 , if the
Commission is of the opinion that there exists a prima facie case, it shall direct the Director General to cause an
investigation to be made into the matter: Before proceeding further, it will be instructive to recapitulate the operative

part of the order of CCI dated 18 November 2024 as below: and

 244.2 Market for online display advertising in India. 245. The Commission holds Meta to be dominant in in the first relevant
 market. Furthermore, Meta is found to be in contravention of provisions
 of Section 4 of the Act as follows: 247.2.4 All future policy updates shall also comply with these
 requirements. 247.3 The OPs are directed to make necessary changes to comply with
 above directions within a period of 3 (three) months from the date of
 receipt of this order and submit a compliance report to the Commission
 in this regard." ... 263. Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of Rs. 213.14
 crore only (Rs. Two hundred Thirteen Crores and Fourteen Lakhs only),
 upon Meta for violating Section 4 of the Act. Meta is directed to deposit
 the penalty amount within 60 days of the receipt of this order." 18. On 5 April 2021, Meta and WhatsApp filed writ petitions before a Single

Judge of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, (Writs) seeking to set aside the PF Order

on the grounds that: (i) the Commission failed to exercise judicial restraint as

the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Hon'ble Delhi High Court were seized of the

2021 Update; (ii) this failure to exercise restraint is contrary to Hon'ble Supreme

Court's precedent that the Commission must defer to a superior authority seized

of a matter; (iii) the PF Order was issued without establishing a prima facie case

of abuse of dominance; and (iv) the Commission has no basis to investigate

Meta, as Meta and WhatsApp are separate and distinct legal entities. 19. On 22 April 2021, the Single Judge issued a judgment (Single Judge

Judgment) dismissing the Writ, but recognising that: (i) the PF Order involves

some of the same issues that are pending before the Hon'ble Supreme Court

and the Hon'ble Delhi High Court; and (ii) it "would have been prudent for the

[Commission] to have awaited the outcome of the [ongoing matters] before the

Supreme Court and before [the Delhi High] Court..." before initiating its

investigation. [Paragraph 33, Single Judge Judgment]. 20. On 30 April 2021, Meta and WhatsApp filed Letters Patent Appeals (LPAs)

before the Division Bench of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court challenging the Single

Judge Judgment. In its reply filed before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the

LPA (Commission DHC Reply), the Commission acknowledged that, "a

Competition Law regulator is not at all concerned with the possible violation of

the Fundamental Right to privacy of users as guaranteed under Part III of the

Constitution of India, as that is outside its well-defined remit". [Paragraph 6.3,

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 13 of 184
 Commission DHC Reply, enclosed at Annexure-27] The Commission also

submitted that it "is examining the 2021 Policy purely through the prism of the Competition Act in discharge of its statutory function as the competition law

regulator under Section 4 of the Competition Act." [Paragraph 6.3, Commission

DHC Reply, enclosed at Annexure-27] These submissions were reiterated during

the oral arguments, and on this basis, through its order dated 25 August 2022

(LPA Judgment), the Division Bench of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court dismissed

the LPA. 21. On 14 September 2022, Meta filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) before

the Hon'ble Supreme Court challenging the LPA Judgment. On 14 October

2022, the Hon'ble Supreme Court issued a judgment dismissing the SLP (SLP

Judgment) [Meta Platforms, Inc. v. Competition Commission of India, Special

Leave to Appeal (C) No. 17121/2022 with Special Leave to Appeal (C)

No17332/2022], but recognising that "the [Commission] should not be

restrained from proceeding further with the enquiry/investigation for the alleged

violation of any of the provisions of the [Competition] Act." [p. 3, SLP Judgment] 22. This Tribunal had vide in Interim Order dated 23.01.2025, issued the

following directions: 23. We have heard all sides and also perused the material placed on record

and basis that, we proceed to write this judgment addressing all issues raised

in the Appeal in following Sections: 24. From the material placed on record, we note that when the Commission

passed prima facie order (PF Order) directing Detailed investigation of

WhatsApp's 2021 policy under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act by

Director General, the Appellants challenged the PF Order arguing that CCI has

no jurisdiction to adjudicate data protection/privacy issues under competition

law. We note that On 5 April 2021, Meta and WhatsApp filed writ petitions before

a Single Judge of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, (Writs) seeking to set aside the

PF Order on the grounds that: (i) the Commission failed to exercise judicial

restraint as the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Hon'ble Delhi High Court were

seized of the 2021 Update; (ii) this failure to exercise restraint is contrary to

Hon'ble Supreme Court's precedent that the Commission must defer to a

superior authority seized of a matter; (iii) the PF Order was issued without

establishing. Thereafter, on 30 April 2021, Meta and WhatsApp filed Letters

Patent Appeals (LPAs) before the Division Bench of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court

challenging the Single Judge Judgment. Commission's stand before Hon'ble
 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 16 of 184
 Delhi High Court was that "a Competition Law regulator is not at all concerned

with the possible violation of the Fundamental Right to privacy of users as

guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution of India, as that is outside its well

defined remit" and that the Commission also submitted that it "is examining the

2021 Policy purely through the prism of the Competition Act in discharge of its

statutory function as the competition law regulator under Section 4 of the

Competition Act." Through its order dated 25 August 2022 (LPA Judgment), the

Division Bench of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court also dismissed the LPA. 25. Thereafter, on 14 September 2022, Meta filed a Special Leave Petition

(SLP) before the Hon'ble Supreme Court challenging the LPA Judgment and on

14 October 2022, the Hon'ble Supreme Court issued a judgment dismissing the

SLP (SLP Judgment) [Meta Platforms, Inc. v. Competition Commission of India,

Special Leave to Appeal (C) No. 17121/2022 with Special Leave to Appeal (C)

No17332/2022]. Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that "the [Commission]

should not be restrained from proceeding further with the enquiry/investigation

for the alleged violation of any of the provisions of the [Competition] Act." 26. The Appellant argues that the Commission has relied on 6Sections 27 and

28 of the Competition Act to make the theoretical argument that neither the

7 Digital Personal Data Protection Act . 2023 (DPDP Act ) nor any other legislation

in India confers powers equivalent to those granted to the Commission. Whether

this is even true is irrelevant, as it still does not allow the Commission to

adjudicate privacy and data protection matters. Under the Commission's 6 Sections 27 and 28 of the Competition Act: In view of the above, the CCI should not be restrained from
 proceeding further with the enquiry/investigation for the
 alleged violation of any of the provisions of the Act. The Special Leave Petitions stand dismissed. However, it is observed that all the contentions which may
 be available to the petitioners are kept open to be considered

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 20 of 184
 by the CCI in accordance with law and on its own merits and
 any observations made while initiating the proceedings
 recorded in para 43 and any observations made by the High
 Court be considered and treated as tentative/prima facie
 while initiating the proceedings under the Act and the
 proceedings shall be decided and disposed of in accordance
 with law and on its own merits. Pending applications stand disposed of." 12. The above order clearly supports the submissions of the CCI that
 suo moto proceeding initiated by the CCI was not to be interfered with.
 However, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that the proceedings
 shall be decided and disposed of in accordance with law and on its own
 merits. The initiation of proceeding was thus, not interfered but the
 ultimate order passed by the Commission has to be tested on its own
 merits. 13. Now we may notice the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 dated 01.02.2023 which is relied by Counsel for the Appellant where
 according to the Appellant, 2021 update privacy policy was not stayed by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The copy of the order dated 01.02.2023 has
 been brought on the record in the Appeal as Annexure 13. It is to be noted
 that the said order was passed in Special Leave to Appeal 804 of 2017
 which was filed by Karmanya Singh Sareen dismissing Writ Petition
 challenging the 2016 privacy policy. In the said SLP, an IA was filed being
 IA No.6140 of 2021 where privacy policy 2021 was sought to be stayed
 with certain further directions. It is useful to notice the following part of
 the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court dated 01.02.2023 dealing with the
 IA No.6140 of 2021: Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the
 respondent-WhatsApp would point out letter dated 22nd
 May, 2021 addressed to the Ministry of Electronics and
 Information Technology (Meity), Government of India. Therein
 our attention is drawn to the following portion: Learned senior counsel for the petitioners, no doubt, would
 pray for an interim order to the effect that even those persons
 who may have agreed to the terms of privacy policy declared
 by WhatsApp either in terms of the Privacy Policy of the year
 2016 or even of the Privacy Policy of 2021 should have the
 right to opt out, which means, according to them that while
 they should be permitted to use WhatsApp, their agreement
 to allow the use of data should not stand in the way of their
 wriggling out of their obligation, under which WhatsApp
 would have the right to share the data. We would think that we may not be justified at this stage in
 granting the relief as sought by the petitioners in I.A. No.
 6140 of 2021. The matters may require consideration of the
 issues which arise in these petitions. As things stand, however, apart from noticing and recording
 the stand of WhatsApp that they have given an undertaking
 which is contained in the paragraph of the letter which we
 have extracted above, we would issue appropriate directions
 in causing wide publicity to the said stand of whatsApp for
 the benefit of those consumers who may not have agreed to
 the terms of the Privacy Policy of the year 2021. Accordingly, the application (I.A. No. 6140 of 2021) is
 disposed of as follows: 14. The above order clearly indicate that the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 did not find it feasible to grant interim order staying 2021 privacy policy.
 We are however, conscious of the fact that refusing to stay privacy policy
 in the year 2023 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP filed by Karmanya
 Singh Sareen at best can indicate that the privacy policy was not stayed
 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. However, the Hon'ble Supreme Court had
 no occasion to consider the suo moto proceedings and breach of provisions
 of Competition Act 2002, and at best it can be noticed that the privacy
 policy was not stayed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in spite of the prayers
 made before it. 15. Counsel for the Appellants also referred to the Digital Personal
 Data Protection Act 2023 Gazetted on 11.08.2023 which has not yet been
 enforced. Counsel for the Appellants submits that the provisions are likely
 to be enforced within six months as the above statement was made by the
 Hon'ble Minister." B. Privacy as a competition concern||Interplay of competition law with
 data-protection law (DPDP Act / SPDI Rules) || exclusivity or
 complementarity-Jurisdiction of CCI 31. Appellant contends that the Commission went beyond its jurisdiction and

made findings on privacy and data protection issues. It is claimed by the

Appellants in their arguments that the entire analysis of the 2021 Policy in the

impugned order indicates that the issues examined pertain to either privacy or

data protection. Appellants contend that questions pertaining to privacy and

data protection are entirely outside the realm of a competition regulator and

would be covered either by the Information Technology (Reasonable Security

Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules,

2011 ('SPDI Rules')9 or the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (' DPDP

Act ') or draft DPDP Rules10 framed thereunder. It claims that the impugned 9 Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or
Information) Rules, 2011 ('SPDI Rules') 10 Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (' DPDP Act ') or Draft DPDP Rules

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 23 of 184
 order rests entirely on findings concerning the adequacy of user consent,

transparency of privacy disclosures, and purpose limitation in the processing of

personal data--all of which are governed by the Information Technology

(Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or

Information) Rules, 2011 and, prospectively, by the Digital Personal Data

Protection Act, 2023 . The Commission's mandate under the Competition Act,

2002 is confined to examining whether there exists an appreciable adverse effect

on competition in a relevant market, not to determine compliance with privacy

or data protection standards. Once the Commission found itself was required to

assess the sufficiency of consent or the lawfulness of data processing, it ought

to have exercised restraint and deferred to the competent authorities and the

Hon'ble Courts already seized of these very questions. In doing so, the

Commission has entered into an area beyond its expertise and statutory remit,

thereby rendering its findings ultra vires and liable to be set aside. 32. The Appellants impressed upon us the importance of DPDP Act by

providing us how it has evolved basis the landmark judgment of the Honourable

Supreme Court of India in the case Justice 11K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) v.

Union of India (2017) 10 SCC, which established that the right to privacy is a

fundamental right protected under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution. The

Court reasoned that privacy is an incident of fundamental freedom or liberty

guaranteed under Article 21 , which states: "No person shall be deprived of his

life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law."

Privacy was described as encompassing personal autonomy, bodily integrity, the 11 Puttaswamy case (2017) 10 SCC, paras 300-306, 328

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 24 of 184
 right to self-determination, and informational privacy--highlighting its

relevance in the digital age. The judgment made it clear that the right to privacy

is not absolute; it can be restricted, but only if the state action is lawful, pursues

a legitimate aim, and is proportionate and necessary. It was brought to our

notice that the Puttaswamy judgment directly led to the creation of the Digital

Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act 2023, making privacy protections

operational in Indian law and fully covers the issue raised in this case.

Appellant argues that the DPDP Act builds upon Puttaswamy judgment by

requiring informed consent, purpose limitation, and data minimization--key

privacy principles identified in the judgment. It establishes rights for individuals

(data principals) like access, correction, and erasure of personal data, seeking

to uphold individual autonomy against state and private interference. The Act attempts to balance privacy interests against legitimate state aims like national

security, echoing Puttaswamy's proportionality and necessity tests for privacy

restrictions. We note that even though the DPDP Act , inspired by Puttaswamy,

governs the collection and processing of personal data, prioritizing consent and

autonomy. However, Competition law, enforced by the Competition Commission

of India (CCI), prevents abuse of dominance and anti-competitive practices,

which increasingly include unfair data practices such as forcing users to

consent to data collection as a condition for service and which has been taken

extensively by us separately. 33. In its rejoinder the Appellants have strongly argued that the Commission

has misconstrued WhatsApp's position on jurisdiction. WhatsApp never

contended that the Commission lacked jurisdiction over competition law. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 25 of 184
 WhatsApp has contended that to find a competition law violation here, the

Commission first made findings on privacy and data protection issues. The

Commission's Order against the Appellants dated 18 November 2024 (Impugned

Order) hinges entirely on those findings. Once it became apparent that findings

on privacy and data protection issues (for example whether the mechanism to

obtain user consent to WhatsApp's updated Terms of Service and Privacy Policy

(2021 Update) was valid, whether the use of data by WhatsApp was within users

legitimate expectations, etc.) were necessary, the Commission should have

exercised restraint and deferred the matter till the appropriate authorities

decide on these issues Exercising such judicial restraint is in line with the

Tribunal's own decision in 12Vinod Kumar Gupta v. Competition Commission

of India, Competition Appeal No. (AT ) 13 of 2017 (Vinod Kumar Gupta) and

the Commission's decision in 13Winzo Games Private Limited v. Google LLC

and Others , Case No. 42 of 2022 (Winzo). Once such determinations were

made by the appropriate authorities, the Commission could only then have

examined the 2021 Update from a competition lens. 12 Vinod Kumar Gupta v. Competition Commission of India, Competition Appeal No. (AT ) 13 of 2017 (Vinod Kumar
Gupta): On 1 June 2017, the Commission in Vinod Kumar Gupta v. WhatsApp Inc., Case No. 99 of 2016 (Vinod Gupta
CCI), dismissed allegations of abuse of dominance by WhatsApp in relation to the 2016 Update at the prima facie
stage itself. On 2 August 2022, this Hon'ble Tribunal in Vinod Kumar Gupta v. Competition Commission of India,
Competition Appeal No. (AT ) 13 of 2017 (Vinod Gupta NCLAT), upheld the decision of the Commission dismissing
allegations of abuse of dominance by WhatsApp in relation to the 2016 Update at the prima facie stage itself : para
9 (w), pp. 71-72, Vol . WhatsApp Case Compilation 13 Winzo Games Private Limited v. Google LLC and Others , Case No. 42 of 2022 (Winzo) In fact, as recently as 28
November 2024, the Commission refused to intervene on issues relating to Real Money Games, explaining that it
would not be appropriate to do so since a regulatory framework for such games was expected to be established. [Paragraph 22] : Winzo, para 22, p. 2118, Vol IV. WhatsApp Case Compilation

Karnataka Power Corporation Limited v. Coal India Limited (CIL) and Others, Case No. 11 of 2017 (Karnataka Power
Corporation v. CIL) [See also: Paragraph 20] refusing to make findings about the quality of coal because there exists
a forum to address such issues. The Commission had no reason to deviate from that approach here. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 26 of 184 34. Even the Supreme Court of India (Supreme Court) and the Delhi High

Court permitted the Commission to investigate based on the understanding that

the Commission's findings would not be affected by the outcome of the

proceedings before the courts [Refer. Paras 31 and 33. LPA Judgment, pp 882 883. Annexure 29, Vol IV, WhatsApp Appeal. They did not authorise it to

adjudicate issues lying squarely within the domain of privacy and data

protection law. Yet the Commission made findings on issues pending before the

courts. Notably, the Delhi High Court14 had specifically highlighted that it

"would have been prudent for [the Commission] to have awaited the outcome of

the ongoing matters) before the Supreme Court and before [the Delhi High)

Court..." while allowing the Commission to initiate its investigation on this basis. 35. Appellant also argues that WhatsApp's position is consistent with the

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 15Bharti Airtel wherein it was held

that Telecom Regulation Authority of India (TRAI) was to first decide whether

mobile networks were giving Jio sufficient points of interconnect. Only after

TRAI made its determination could the Commission examine whether any

failure to provide such points of interconnect resulted from an anti-competitive

agreement. This is precisely what the Commission should have done here;

waited for the Courts or the privacy regulator to decide on issues of privacy and

data protection before deciding the competition issues. However, the 14 WhatsApp LLC v Competition Commission of India . WP (C) No. 4378 of 2021, Para 33, p. 831, Annexure 27, Vol III,
WhatsApp's Appeal 15 Bharti Airtel: Competition Commission of India v Bharti Airtel , (2019) 2 SCC 521: Refer: paras 103-104, pp. 2102- 2103, Vol IV, WhatsApp Case Compilation

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 27 of 184
 Commission did not wait for such a determination by the appropriate

authorities. 36. Strongly rebutting these arguments of the Appellant (Meta and WhatsApp)

the Commission argues that there is no conflict between its jurisdiction under

the Competition Act and the authority of data protection regulators under the IT Act or privacy laws. The CCI explains that it is not examining whether

WhatsApp's policy violates privacy statutes but whether WhatsApp's conduct of

requiring users to share data with Meta amounts to an abuse of dominance

under Section 4 of the Competition Act. It maintains that privacy and data

collection practices can influence competition because they affect consumer

choice, quality, and fairness in the market. Therefore, the CCI's focus is on the

competitive impact of WhatsApp's data-sharing arrangements, while

compliance with data protection obligations remains within the domain of

sectoral regulators, making the two frameworks complementary rather than

conflicting. 37. We also note the contention of the Commission that the Appellants'

reliance on SPDI Rules9 is misplaced because they operate in a narrow compass

compared to Competition law16. The former is principally concerned with a

narrower category of data, namely, sensitive personal data and information of

users through which users can be identified. By way of contrast, competition

law would encompass non-personal data, non-sensitive data and significantly,

utilisation of broader categories of data (eg. metadata of users etc.) by dominant 16 The Competition Act 2002 and related Rules and Regulations

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 28 of 184
 entities. Similarly, Appellants' reliance on DPDP Act10 and draft DPDP Rules is

an entirely academic exercise as it seeks to invoke an inactive and inoperative

legislation. We also note that even when the DPDP Rules are notified and

implemented, the CCI would still continue to exercise jurisdiction of actions of

dominant entities that concern their data related practices for reasons set out

in the next section. 38. Commission contends that the Appellants have further placed reliance on

this Tribunal's Judgment in Shri Vinod Kumar Gupta vs. CCI & Ors. CA(AT)

No. 13 of 2017 and the underlying CCI order Shri Vinod Kumar Gupta,

Chartered Accountant and WhatsApp Inc. Case No. 99 for 2016 to argue that

the 2016 Policy had been effectively upheld. Since in the submission of

Appellants, there is no difference between the policies of 2016 and 2021, it is

claimed that the 2021 Policy cannot now be faulted. Commission claims that

the Appellant's reasoning is flawed. Firstly, the 2016 and 2021 policies are

fundamentally different. The scope of data collection and sharing under the two

policies is different, with the 2021 Policy being much more expansive. Moreover,

the CCI's order was passed under Section 26(2) 17 of the Act, whereby the matter

is closed at the initial stage without order investigation and purely based on the 17 Section 26. Procedure for inquiry under section 19 1 [26. Procedure for inquiry under section 19 .--(1) On receipt of a reference from the Central Government or a State
Government or a statutory authority or on its own knowledge or information received under section 19 , if the
Commission is of the opinion that there exists a prima facie case, it shall direct the Director General to cause an
investigation to be made into the matter: Commission relies on 18Flipkart Internet Pvt, Ltd. and Ors, V. Competition

Commission of India and Ors., WA Nos . 562/2021 and 563/2021 (GM-RES)

(Paras 42), a Hon'ble Division Bench of the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka

has held as under: [Emphasis supplied] 18 Flipkart Internet Pvt, Ltd. and Ors, V. Competition Commission of India and Ors., WA Nos . 562/2021 and
563/2021 (GM-RES) (Paras 42), High Court of Karnataka

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 30 of 184 39. Even after the recent introduction of a Section 26(2A) in the Competition

Act , the Hon'ble 19High Court Judicature at Bombay in Asian Paints Limited

vs. Competition Commission of India & Anr. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 2887

of 2025 (Paras 27 and 32-34), has reiterated the non-application of res judicata

in the following terms: 40. Commission further contends that the order of the CCI relied on by the

Appellants is of 2017 and in this fast-changing digital market, a great deal

would have changed by 2021. Hence, it would be inappropriate to bind the CCI

for all times to come in the matter of investigating the Appellants' abusive

conduct, based solely on 2017 order. 19 High Court Judicature at Bombay in Asian Paints Limited vs. Competition Commission of India & Anr. Writ
Petition (Civil) No. 2887 of 2025 (Paras 27 and 32-34)

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 31 of 184 41. In its rejoinder the Appellants claim that the Commission has

misunderstood WhatsApp's submissions on Vinod Kumar Gupta 's case. This

Tribunal in Vinod Kumar Gupta upheld WhatsApp's 2016 update to its Terms

of Service and Privacy Policy (2016 Update), which covered both (i) existing users

who were offered an opt-out, and (ii) new users who joined after August 2016

without an opt-out [Refer Paras 9(1), 9(m), 9(n), pp. 64-65, Vinod Kumar Gupta,

Vol I, WhatsApp Case Compilation. Subsequently, WhatsApp announced the

2021 Update. The 2021 Update does not expand WhatsApp's ability to collect

or share data beyond what was already permitted under the 2016 Update.

Therefore, the Commission cannot, in the present proceedings, go beyond the

Hon'ble Tribunal's findings in Vinod Kumar Gupta. This is not a case of res

judicata, but instead demonstrates the Commission's failure to follow binding

precedent. This Tribunal also refused to make any finding that the 2015 Update

was not clear or that it was an abuse of dominance as these allegations fell

outside the domain of the Competition Act . If the alleged vagueness of the 2016

Update was not an abuse, it cannot form a basis for finding a violation against

the 2021 Update, which provides even greater transparency. (Refer Para 9(w),

pp. 7172, Vinod Kumar Gupta, Vol. I, WhatsApp Case Compilation]. Moreover,

it is claimed that WhatsApp does not assert that the findings in Vinod Kumar

Gupta preclude the Commission from investigating the 2021 Update. However,

it is the legal position that the Commission is bound by this Tribunal's decisions

on the subject. If the Commission wishes to deviate from these decisions, it can

only do so on a finding based on cogent evidence that there has been a change

in facts, namely, that there is a significant departure in the 2021 Update from

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 32 of 184
 the 2016 Update. The Commission's findings are, however, bereft of any

evidence on this issue. 42. It is also brought to our notice that a key consideration for not ordering

investigation by the DG against the 2016 Policy in Vinod Kumar Gupta (supra)

was the provision of opt-out provided to users in that policy by WhatsApp. Such

an opt-out mechanism was not provided to users in the 2021 Policy. 43. Here we are posed with a question whether the Commission went beyond

its jurisdiction and made findings on privacy and data protection issues i.e.

whether questions pertaining to privacy and data protection are entirely outside

the realm of a competition regulator and would be covered either by the

Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and

Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011 ('SPDI Rules') or the Digital

Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (' DPDP Act ') or draft DPDP Rules framed

thereunder. 44. We find that even though the DPDP Act 2023, governs the collection and

processing of personal data, prioritizing consent and autonomy, however,

Competition law, enforced by the Competition Commission of India (CCI),

prevents abuse of dominance and anti-competitive practices, which we have

found in this case to include unfair data practices such as forcing users to

consent to data collection as a condition for service. 45. Appellant has placed reliance on Vinod Kumar Gupta v. Competition

Commission of India, Competition Appeal No. (AT ) 13 of 2017 (Vinod

Kumar Gupta) in which this AT had dismissed allegations of abuse of

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 33 of 184
 dominance by WhatsApp in relation to the 2016 Update at the prima facie stage

itself and argues that CCI should have exercised judicial restraint in line with

AT's own decision. We find that this judgement is of no help to the Appellants

as the 2016 and 2021 policies are fundamentally different. The scope of data

collection and sharing under the two policies is different, with the 2021 Policy

being much more expansive. Moreover, CCI's order under Section 26(2) was

preliminary, but the impugned order was a final order under Section 27 after

detailed investigation 46. Appellant also places its reliance on the judgment of the Commission

Winzo Games Private Limited v. Google LLC and Others , Case No. 42 of 2022

(Winzo) dated 28 November 2024, wherein the Commission refused to intervene

on issues relating to Real Money Games, explaining that it would not be

appropriate to do so since a regulatory framework for such games was expected

to be established. This judgement is of no avail to the appellant as the facts are

different. In the instant case the issues are relating to privacy and data

protection - which are coming in conflict with the competition law. The DPDP

Act 2023 and related draft rules are available, but they cannot oust the

jurisdiction of the Competition Commission. 47. WhatsApp has also relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Bharti Airtel wherein it was held that Telecom Regulation Authority of India

(TRAI) was to first decide whether mobile networks were giving Jio sufficient

points of interconnect and is claimed that Commission should have waited for

the Courts or the privacy regulator to decide on issues of privacy and data

protection before deciding the competition issues. This judgement is also of no

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 34 of 184
 avail to the appellant as the facts in the instant case are distinguishable and

this case relates to privacy and data protection - which are coming in conflict

with the competition law. The DPDP Act 2023 and related draft rules, both

cannot oust the jurisdiction of the Competition Commission. Moreover, we have

delved in detail on the maintainability of the present investigation by the

Commission here in a separately. 48. We also find that the Commission gets support from another judgement

in Flipkart Internet Pvt, Ltd. and Ors, V. Competition Commission of India

and Ors., WA Nos . 562/2021 and 563/2021 (GM-RES), wherein Hon'ble

Division Bench of the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka has held as under: This judgment further holds that

 "The market place is by its very nature a constantly evolving and dynamic
 space. The market forces can evolve even in the course of a few months and
 therefore, by no stretch of imagination, it can be held that the appellants
 should be out of bound for all times and no action can be taken against them
 only because at some point of time the matter has been looked into by the
 CCI." [Emphasis supplied] 49. The Commission also finds support for non-application of res judicata in

a recently introduced Section 26(2A) in the Competition Act , wherein the

Hon'ble High Court Judicature at Bombay in Asian Paints Limited vs.

Competition Commission of India & Anr. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 2887 of

2025 (Paras 27 and 32-34), has reiterated the same: Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 35 of 184
 "34. A perusal of the impugned order indicates that Respondent No.1,
 despite being aware of the JSW representation and its dismissal, found
 substance in the representation of Respondent No.2 and, after recording
 prima facie observation, directed the DG to investigate the same. The
 object of Section 26(2-A) is not to create an embargo on the filing of a
 subsequent information, but to emphasize that an information founded on
 similar or substantially identical facts ought not to be entertained. The
 discretion is that of the CCI, whether or not to entertain a subsequent
 representation..." 50. We find that judicial precedents as noted above also confirm that the

doctrine of res judicata is inapplicable to Competition Act matters;

investigations into new conduct or facts cannot be foreclosed based on previous

findings. The absence of an opt-out mechanism in the 2021 Policy versus the

2016 Policy, as well as the rapidly changing digital landscape, further supports

the Commission's probe and final order. Finally, we find that the CCI's function

is distinct from that of sectoral or privacy regulators: it evaluates competitive

effects of conduct, such as forced data-sharing, regardless of whether data

protection statutes are also engaged. Thus, the arguments reinforce that CCI

retains both the mandate and necessity to address privacy-related competitive

harms. 51. We also note that Privacy is recognized by competition regulators

worldwide as a critical non-price competition parameter, valued by users on par

with quality, customer service, and innovation and this is also elaborated by us

separately. 52. Per above analysis we don't find any conflict between CCI's jurisdiction

under the Competition Act and the authority of data protection regulators under

the IT Act or privacy laws. We also find that CCI is not examining whether

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 36 of 184
 WhatsApp's policy violates privacy statutes but whether WhatsApp's conduct of

requiring users to share data with Meta amounts to an abuse of dominance

under Section 4 of the Competition Act. We agree with the arguments of the CCI

that privacy and data collection practices can influence competition because

they affect consumer choice, quality, and fairness in the market. We also find

that CCI has focussed on the competitive impact of WhatsApp's data-sharing

arrangements, while compliance with data protection obligations remains

within the domain of sectoral regulators, making the two frameworks

complementary rather than conflicting. We also find that Appellants' reliance

on SPDI Rules is misplaced because they operate in a narrow compass

compared to Competition law20. SPDI Rules are mainly concerned with a

narrower category of data, namely, sensitive personal data and information of

users through which users can be identified, while competition law

encompasses non-personal data, non-sensitive data and significantly,

utilisation of broader categories of data ( e.g. metadata of users etc.) by

dominant entities. Appellants' reliance on DPDP Act and draft DPDP Rules is an

entirely academic exercise. We also find that even when the DPDP Rules are

notified and implemented, the CCI would still continue to exercise jurisdiction

of actions of dominant entities that concern their data related practices for

reasons set out in the next section. 53. We can thus conclude that the Commission's jurisdiction encompasses

not just overtly anti-competitive economic practices but also extends to unfair

data practices that may affect competition dynamics, consumer choice, and 20 The Competition Act 2002 and related Rules and Regulations

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 37 of 184
 market fairness. The DPDP Act 's existence does not make the CCI redundant;

rather, both frameworks operate complementarily, where competition

regulation addresses practices influencing market power, irrespective of overlap

with privacy laws. Moreover, each new policy or conduct (such as the much

broader 2021 WhatsApp policy) can merit fresh investigation notwithstanding

prior decisions or regulatory action, as markets and business conduct evolve

rapidly. C. Zero-price market economics and appropriate analytical
 approach||Competition in zero-priced digital products - Privacy of data - as a non-price factor? 54. We note the pivotal role played by data in the operation of digital

platforms. Business Entities are able to provide zero-priced products only

because there is value attached to the vast amount of data that is collected from

their users. We note that this Tribunal's judgment in Google LLC & and Anr.

vs. Competition Commission of India CA (AT) No. 10 of 202321 (Paras 210

to 213) has set out the central role played by data in zero-priced multi-sided

digital markets (while specifically referring to advertising) and competition

concerns arising therefrom. In digital markets, an enterprise's competitive

advantage is increasingly shaped by the amount, diversity, and quality of data

it possesses access to such data has become a crucial source of market power,

as it allows platforms to improve services, target users more effectively, and

operate more efficiently than their competitors (as recognised in Matrimony.com Limited vs. Google LLC & Ors. Case No. 7 of 201222; Paras

249, 196-200). Furthermore, due to data's scalable and reusable nature, 21 Google LLC & and Anr. vs. Competition Commission of India CA (AT) No. 10 of 2023 22 Matrimony.com Limited vs. Google LLC & Ors. Case No. 7 of 2012; Paras 249, 196-200

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 38 of 184
 dominant platforms can reinforce their position by creating high entry barriers,

limiting rivals' access to essential data, and shaping market dynamics in their

favour ultimately distorting fair competition. [Paras 28.1 and 28.2 @ pg. 11 of

Impugned Order]. 55. It was brought to our notice that non-price parameters of competition-

like quality, customer service, and innovation are also valued by users at par

with privacy and competition regulators across the world recognise it as a

critical non-price parameter of competition. If there is a loss of privacy it is

considered as reduction in quality of services. Thus, excessive data collection

(with same level of services) amounts to degradation of quality of services and

this has been noted in para 182.6 @pg. 108 of Impugned Order. 56. We also note that data driven digital networks typically do not rely on

monetary consideration or subscriptions to earn revenue and are frequently

either free or at a nominal cost with a view to gain maximum subscribers over

a period of at the earliest. We don't find disagreement in the arguments of the

Commission that the real value in such nominally free digital services is in the

data of the users which can be monetised to full effect by selling to advertisers

etc. Therefore, we cannot accept the definition proposed by Appellants, which

excludes non-price factors such as privacy from competition analysis. If

accepted, this would effectively remove all non-price based digital services from

the scrutiny of competition law. We also note that the ubiquity of digital services

and their impact on consumers as a whole are perhaps that regulators

worldwide have been considering non-price factors such as privacy are valid for

competition analysis. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 39 of 184 57. Therefore, we don't find any disagreement with the argument that

reduction of privacy as a non-price factor in competition at par with other non-

price attributes would be fully in consonance with the letter and spirit of the Competition Act . We find argument convincing that privacy loss can be

considered service quality reduction and excessive data collection amounts to

degradation of service quality. 58. The sub-issue before us is the role played by data in the operation of

digital platforms. Basis submissions of both sides and also material placed on

record, in our appraisal, we find that business entities in the digital world are

able to provide zero-priced products only because there is value attached to the

vast amount of data that is collected from their users. The Tribunal's judgment

in Google LLC and Anr. vs. Competition Commission of India CA AT No. 10

of 2023 has set out the central role played by data in zero-priced multi-sided

digital markets while specifically referring to advertising and competition

concerns arising therefrom. Furthermore, we find that in digital markets, an

enterprise's competitive advantage is increasingly shaped by the amount,

diversity, and quality of data it possesses; access to such data has become a

crucial source of market power, as it allows platforms to improve services, target

users more effectively, and operate more efficiently than their competitors as

recognised in Matrimony.com Limited vs. Google LLC Ors. Case No. 7 of

2012. 59. We find that the Competition Commission's authority extends to digital

markets where services are provided at zero price, as the real value lies in the

data collected from users. The Commission's scrutiny is not limited to price- Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 40 of 184
 based competition but includes non-price factors such as privacy, quality, and

innovation, which are critical in digital markets. The scalable and reusable

nature of data allows dominant platforms to reinforce their market position,

create entry barriers, and distort fair competition, making it imperative for the

Commission to intervene. 60. Furthermore, we find that the legislative framework, including Section

4(2)(a)(i) and Section 4(2)(a)(ii) of the Competition Act, is deliberately broad to

capture all forms of abusive conduct, including those involving non-price

factors. The Competition Law Review Committee's findings further support the

Commission's approach, affirming that the Act's definitions are inclusive

enough to encompass data and network effects without requiring amendment.

Excluding non-price factors from competition analysis would undermine the

Act's purpose and leave digital markets unregulated, contrary to global

regulatory consensus. Therefore, the Competition Commission's actions in zero-

price markets are fully justified and in line with the Act's spirit and international

best practices. 61. We were also clarified that same dominance assessment test applies

equally to all markets, whether zero-price markets or non-zero priced markets.

We were reminded that consumers pay via their data in zero price markets.

D. Distinctions & overlaps between competition law and data privacy
 laws||Can CCI decide "privacy" issues? 62. On the issue of distinctions and overlaps between competition law and

data privacy laws, it was argued by the Commission that data-related practices

may breach both data privacy and competition law. On the one hand the Data

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 41 of 184
 privacy law focuses on personal data processing, safeguarding individual rights

and building consumer trust and on the other hand Competition law addresses

misuse of both personal and non-personal data, competition-sensitive data,

preventing data-driven market dominance, ensuring fair pricing, innovation,

and consumer choice. Since 'user data' also includes anonymised and

aggregated data, a broader view is essential for assessing competition issues in

digital markets. Seen as such, data protection and competition law address data

concerns through distinct but complementary tools [Para 28.5 and 28.7 @pgs.

12-13 of Impugned Order]. 63. We also note that privacy law asks, "Was this consent valid under privacy

standards?" Whereas competition law asks, "Did this conduct distort the

competitive process or exploit market power?". Consumer choice is impaired if

a dominant firm can unilaterally impose terms that consumers would avoid if

they truly had options. 64. It was also brought to our notice that abuse of dominance in data markets

can take two forms one is exclusionary conduct, such as combining data across

services to raise entry barriers and stifle competition. For instance, in the

present case the illegal utilisation of data collected through WhatsApp to

improve non-WhatsApp products resulted in exclusion of competitors [violations

of Sections 4(2)(e) and 4(2)(c)]. The conduct could also be exploitative, like

demanding excessive user data or reducing service quality. For instance, in the

present case the reduction of quality of service due to mandatory and excessive

collection of users' WhatsApp data for non-WhatsApp purposes [violation of

Section 4(2)(a)(i)]. Both forms undermine consumer welfare by limiting choice,

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 42 of 184
 reducing quality of service by degrading privacy, and distorting fair competition.

[Para 28.6 @ pgs. 12-13 of Impugned Order] 65. Commission has also brought to our notice that data-related practices

can raise issues under multiple legal frameworks, eg- a dominant firm's conduct

may breach both privacy and competition laws. A holistic approach is thus

essential to ensure markets remain competitive, transparent, and consumer-

friendly across dimensions like price, quality, privacy, and choice. [Para 28.8 @

pg. 13 of Impugned Order] 66. It was also brought to our attention that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

Excel Crop Care Case, has observed that competition policy enhances

economic growth and consumer welfare by promoting choice, quality, and lower

prices. It also helps correct market failures like information asymmetries and

weak consumer bargaining power, serving as a vital complement to consumer

protection laws. [Para 28.10 @ pg. 14 of Impugned Order] 67. We also note that Privacy is recognized by competition regulators

worldwide as a critical non-price competition parameter, valued by users on par

with quality, customer service, and innovation. This is delved into by us

separately herein. 68. We thus find that data-related practices may breach both data privacy

and competition law. Data privacy law focuses on personal data processing,

safeguarding individual rights and building consumer trust and on the other

hand Competition law addresses misuse of both personal and non-personal

data, competition-sensitive data, preventing data-driven market dominance,

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 43 of 184
 ensuring fair pricing, innovation, and consumer choice. Since 'user data' also

includes anonymised and aggregated data, a broader view is essential for

assessing competition issues in digital markets. Seen as such, data protection

and competition law address data concerns through distinct but complementary

tools. 69. We find that Commission's jurisdiction cannot be excluded on the

grounds that it is testing the competition issues on the grounds of privacy and

data and they are entirely outside the realm of a competition regulator and

would be covered either by the Information Technology (Reasonable Security

Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules,

2011 ('SPDI Rules')23 or the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (' DPDP

Act ') or draft DPDP Rules24 framed thereunder. 70. Thus, we find no repugnancy between the Competition Act and the

DPDPA/IT Rules. The regimes address different questions i.e., CCI targets anti-

competitive conduct (unfair terms, leveraging, foreclosure), while data

protection laws govern privacy compliance and thus, the two laws can operate

in parallel. Mere commonality of subject matter does not oust a statutory

regulator's remit. Indian courts including the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the

Hon'ble Delhi High Court in this matter itself have affirmed CCI's jurisdiction to

examine competition harms even where privacy/fundamental right issues are

also implicated. 23 Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or
Information) Rules, 2011 ('SPDI Rules') 24 Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (' DPDP Act ') or Draft DPDP Rules

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 44 of 184
 E. Validity of consent/ informed consent under competitive coercion 71. Appellant contends that Commission's finding on invalid consent under

the 2021 Update is misplaced. Users were not compelled to accept the update

and could continue using WhatsApp without doing so. The update did not

expand data collection but merely reorganised existing terms to enhance

transparency. The presumption that a standard "take-it-or-leave-it" policy

amounts to coercion under competition law is legally untenable. Consent

validity falls within the domain of privacy and data protection law, not

competition law. Hence, users' consent was informed, voluntary, and compliant

with applicable legal standards, and cannot be termed coercive or anti-

competitive. 72. The CCI argued that WhatsApp's 2021 Privacy Policy vitiated user consent

due to competitive coercion, as users were left with no real alternative owing to

WhatsApp's dominance, strong network effects, and lack of interoperability with

competing apps. The CCI emphasized that consent obtained under a "take-it-

or-leave-it" framework where users had to accept the updated policy or lose

access to the service cannot be considered free, voluntary, or informed. The

imbalance of bargaining power, coupled with vague and expansive data-

collection terms and user inertia from long-term dependence on WhatsApp,

rendered user choice illusory. Thus, the CCI held that such coerced consent

amounts to an unfair condition under Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Competition Act,

as it exploits users and degrades service quality by undermining privacy. 73. In our appraisal we find that the WhatsApp 2021 Policy, unlike its

predecessor of 2016, fundamentally undermined user choice and permitted

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 45 of 184
 data sharing far exceeding legitimate requirements of WhatsApp, leveraging

WhatsApp's dominance and network effects for exploitative abuse of users The

overwhelming evidence shows that WhatsApp's 2021 Policy update imposed an

expanded scope of data collection and sharing on users without meaningful

choice or ability to opt out, leveraging its dominant market position. Consent

was not freely given--users were coerced into a binary choice of accepting

invasive terms or forfeiting a vital communication tool. Such conduct

constitutes exploitative abuse and undermines competition by giving the

dominant platform data and insights inaccessible to rivals, while eroding service

quality through forced privacy loss. The Competition Commission is fully

justified in its scrutiny and intervention, protecting consumer interests, service

quality, and competitive fairness in the digital marketplace 74. We note here that a related issue whether such coerced consent amounts

to an unfair condition under Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Competition Act is being

discussed separately herein after. F. Does Indian Legislative framework include both unfair price and unfair
 conditions? 75. During the arguments the Respondent-Commission took us through the

Legislative framework to canvass their arguments that Section 4 captures all

forms of abusive conduct. We also note that Section 4 capture all possible forms

of abusive conduct -Section 4(2)(a) has two sub-sections, namely, Section

4(2)(a)(ii) dealing with unfair price and Section 4(2)(a)(i) dealing with unfair

condition, which indicates the legislative intendment to consider both price and

non-price factors. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 46 of 184 76. It was also brought to our notice that the CLRC25 has also noted it is

unnecessary to amend the Competition Act to specifically include 'data' or

'network effects' as they same are included within the wide sweep of Sections

2(o) and 19(4) , respectively. The CLRC's observation mirrors findings in the

impugned order. [Para 106 @ pg. 52 of Impugned Order]

G. International jurisprudence - is data privacy a competition concern or
 not? 77. Appellant contends that the Commission's argument is primarily based

on a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in

Konkurrensverket v. TeliaSonera Sverige AB, C-52/09 (TeliaSonera)

[Paragraph 238, Impugned Order]. The Commission's reliance on this foreign

decision is misplaced because: this Tribunal held that "the citations available

within Indian jurisdiction are primarily to be relied and if, no reference, is there

then only, we can opt for the judgment in foreign jurisdiction." [Paragraph 9 (x),

Vinod Gupta NCLAT] Further , this Tribunal in the Google NCLAT Decision

held that Section 4 violations must be supported by an effects analysis,

rendering the Commission's reliance on TeliaSonera - a foreign decision -

inappropriate; Further the Commission selectively quotes from TeliaSonera,

ignoring the CJEU's observations that "in order to establish whether such a

practice is abusive, [the] practice must have anti-competitive effect on the market 25 Competition Law Review Committee ('CLRC'; Chapter 8, Para 2.2 and Annexure 1, Para 50), observed that it was
unnecessary to amend the Competition Act to specifically include data as a factor in dominance assessment, as the
definition of price in Section 2(o) of the Competition Act encompassed 'every valuable consideration, whether direct
or indirect' in the definition of price. CLRC also found that Section 19(4) need not be amended to include the term 'network effects' as it was already
worded in an inclusive manner and hence provided CCI with enough flexibility to consider such factors while
determining dominance of an enterprise (Chapter 8, Para 2.16 and Annexure I, Para 54). Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 47 of 184
 ... and it is sufficient to demonstrate that there is an anti-competitive effect which

may potentially exclude competitors who are at least as efficient as the dominant

undertaking". [Paragraph 64, TeliaSonera] Here, the Commission not only

failed to establish that there is anti-competitive effect, it conducted no analysis

to determine. whether the alleged conduct may "exclude competitors who are at

least as efficient as the dominant undertaking"; Appellant also claims that this

Hon'ble Tribunal relied on TeliaSonera when requiring an effects analysis in the

Google NCLAT Decision, thereby rejecting the Commission's interpretation of

TeliaSonera. [Paragraph 62, Google NCLAT Decision] 78. For an international perspective, it was brought to our notice that

international jurisprudence explicitly and clearly recognises that in data-driven

markets, competition authorities' role is significant as data has emerged as

critical competition factor and market power source. Following cases were

presented to bring to our notice that the Commission has the jurisdiction: a. European Union: An identical question has been
 considered by the Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice
 of the European Union ('CJEU') in Meta Platforms & Ors. vs. Bundeskartellamt ECLI:EU:C:2023:53726
 (Bundeskartellamt Case; paras 48-51, 116-118, 123, 134
 and 151) upholding the first instance decision of
 Bundeskartellamt (German competition regulator) in
 Facebook Inc. B6-22/16 (Paras 525-558 and 867). Therein, the Grand Chamber of the CJEU ruled that when
 competition authorities are assessing whether an
 undertaking abuses its dominant position, violation of data 26 Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice of the European Union ('CJEU') in Meta Platforms & Ors. vs.
Bundeskartellamt ECLI:EU:C:2023:537

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 48 of 184
 privacy rules or reduction of privacy by excessive data
 sharing can form part of the competition law assessment.
 The CJEU further noted that the 'scale of the processing of
 the data' and the significant impact of that processing on
 the users of that network, as well as the reasonable
 expectations of the users, are particularly important
 factors. We also note that in the present context of
 Appellants' submissions, the above case is an instance
 where even though a data privacy law was in place (GDPR),
 the same was not seen as an impediment to the jurisdiction
 of the competition regulator. Rather, it was clearly
 understood that while the data privacy law would govern
 in its own field, the effect of reduced privacy and reduced
 quality of service on the market as a whole was a
 competition law concern. The Appellants' case herein is
 even weaker as there is no DPDP Act has not yet been
 operationalized, as in the absence of rules there is no
 framework for the same. b. The Grand Chamber of CJEU has reiterated its above
 findings in ND vs. DR ECLI:EU:C:2024:84627 (Paras 53- 73), wherein it upheld the right of third parties to pursue
 private enforcement actions under competition law, arising
 out of data privacy infractions. c. Turkey: The Turkish Competition Authority ('TCA') also
 launched an ex officio investigation into the Appellants for
 abuse of dominance arising out the 2021 Policy, which was
 rolled out globally. The TCA28 didn't defer to privacy
 authorities and as noted in OECD's Annual Report on
 Competition Policy Developments in Turkey dt. 16.05.2024 27 Grand Chamber of CJEU in ND vs. DR ECLI:EU:C:2024:846 28 Decision No. 22-48/706-299 dated 20.10.2022 by TCA (Turkey), ¶ 2, 3 & 5651. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 49 of 184
 (Para 46), found that Meta distorted competition "by
 complicating the activities of its competitors operating in
 personal social networking services and online display
 advertising markets and creating barriers to entry to the
 market by means of combining data collected from
 Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp services that are
 called core services[...]". d. United Kingdom: UKCAT is dealing with similar abuse of
 dominance issues arising from mandatory data sharing by
 Meta in a collective action claim (Dr. Liza Lovdahl
 Gormsen29 vs Meta Platform Inc. & Ors. CAT 11; ¶ 20-
 22, 25). 79. Some papers by international bodies and national regulators are also

presented by the Commission to argue the case that excessive data sharing and

other violations of data privacy norms are relevant factors in assessing abuse of

dominance and other competition law issues and some of them are noted as

follows: 80. Respondent-Commission contends that as noted in the impugned order,

international jurisprudence explicitly and clearly recognizes that in data-driven

markets the role of competition authorities is significant as data has emerged

as a critical parameter of competition and a source of market power. 81. Appellant in his rejoinder has strongly argued that the Commission

wrongly relies on the Court of Justice of the European Union32 (CJEU)'s decision

in Meta v. Bundeskartellamt, Case C-252/21 (CJEU Decision). The

Commission has relied on this decision to claim that European courts recognize

the jurisdiction of antitrust regulators to intervene in matters concerning 32 CJEU-Court of Justice of the European Union

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 52 of 184
 privacy and data protection. It is contended33 that, as recognized by the Court

of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), competition authorities must consult

and cooperate with data protection authorities when issues involving the

GDPR34 arise in the course of assessing abuse of dominance. The CJEU has

clarified that where a competition authority has doubts regarding GDPR

compliance or where such matters are under consideration by data protection

regulators, it must seek their cooperation and, if necessary, await their

determination before proceeding. The Commission ought to have followed this

principle of inter-authority coordination to ensure consistency and avoid

jurisdictional overlap. 82. Furthermore Appellant contends that the Commission's argument is

contrary to its own position before the Delhi High Court that a Competition Law

regulator is not at all concerned with the possible Violation of the Fundamental 33 Appellant claims that there are issues on this CJEU Decision. Firstly, the CJEU Decision itself expressly requires
European antitrust authorities and data protection authorities to "consult and cooperate with each other to observe
their respective powers and competences, in such a way as to ensure that the obligations arising from the GDPR
and the objectives of that regulation are complied with while their effectiveness is safeguarded." (Refer CJEU
Decision, para 54 p. 1479, Vol IV, Commission 's Case Compilation. Further "where a national competition authority
considers it necessary to rule, in the context of a decision on an abuse of a dominant position, on the compliance or
non-compliance with the GDPR of the processing of personal data by the undertaking in question, that authority
and the supervisory authority concerned or, where appropriate, the competent lead supervisory authority within
the meaning of that regulation must cooperate with each other in order to ensure the consistency of application of
that regulation" [Refer: CJEU Decision, para 52, pp. 1478-1479, Vol IV, Commission 's Case Compilation]
Furthermore that "[w]here it has doubts as to the scope of such a decision, where those terms or similar terms are,
simultaneously, under examination by those authorities, or where, in the absence of an investigation or decision by
those authorities, the competition authority takes the view that the terms in question are not consistent with the
GDPR. it must consult and seek the cooperation of those supervisory authorities in order to dispel its doubts or to
determine whether it must wait for them to take a decision before starting its own assessment. in the absence of
any objection on their part or of any reply within a reasonable time, the national competition authority may continue
its own investigation" [Refer CJEU Decision, para 57, p. 1479 and para 63, p. 1480, Vol IV. Commission 's Case
Compilation]
Appellant claims that the Commission fails to refer to these paras, and failure to follow this approach, the CJEU
cautioned, "may entail the risk of divergences between that authority and the supervisory authorities in the
interpretation of that regulation" [Refer CJEU Decision, para 55, p. 1479, Vol IV. Commission 's Case Compilation) 34 GDPR-General Data Protection Regulation

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 53 of 184
 Right to privacy of users as guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution of

India, as that is outside is well defined remit and is examining the 2021 Policy

purely through the prism of the Competition Act an discharge of its statutory

function as the competition law regulator under Section 4 of the Competition

Act. As stated above, the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court allowed the

Commission's investigation based on the understanding that it would not be

making findings on privacy and data protection. 83. From above submissions on international jurisprudence on data privacy

and competition law we summarise few important cases: It confirms that abuse of dominance via excessive data practices and privacy

violations are valid grounds for intervention. This solid global consensus and

the resulting legal standards strongly support the Competition Commission in

its regulatory and enforcement actions concerning WhatsApp's data policies

and consent issues. 85. Having heard both sides on the international jurisprudence, we note that

in data-driven markets the role of competition authorities is significant as data

has emerged as a critical parameter of competition and a source of market

power. Even though Indian legislative framework is sufficient to understand the

issues involved in the case, yet we are taking a note of all above to understand

any gaps in our understanding of the international jurisprudence, if any.

H. Evidence, causation and timing (speculative vs. actual harm) ||Effects
 analysis- actual required or not 86. Appellant contends that the Commission has failed to identify actual anti-

competitive effects, and instead relied on "potential" effects. The Commission

incorrectly asserts that it need not conduct an effects analysis to determine the

actual anti-competitive effects of WhatsApp's alleged conduct, which is a

prerequisite for a Section 4 violation. Instead, it relied on "potential" effects and

speculative harm (Paragraph 238, Impugned Order). As a result, there is no

finding of actual harm, let alone a "causal link" between WhatsApp's conduct

and that harm. Indeed, even though nearly four years have passed since the

2021 Update was introduced and about nine years since WhatsApp obtained

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 55 of 184
 consent to share user data with Meta, there is no finding of actual harm to: (i)

users; (ii) competitors; or (iii) the relevant market. 87. The Commission has previously rejected allegations that WhatsApp

abused its dominance, reasoning that WhatsApp's allegedly abusive conduct

had yet to manifest in the market. In Harshita Chawla35, the Commission

dismissed the Informant's allegations as "premature," observing that the

potential anti-competitive effects (if any) were not seen in the market. This

decision attained finality through this Hon'ble Tribunal's judgment in Harshita

Chawla v. WhatsApp Inc. & Others , Competition Appeal (AT) 22 of 202036. 88. Similarly, the erstwhile Competition Appellate Tribunal (COMPAT) also

dismissed allegations of abuse of dominance, citing the absence of anti-

competitive effects in the relevant market in 37Schott Glass Decision. The

Commission has offered no basis to deviate from this precedent and penalise

WhatsApp based entirely on hypothetical effects. 89. Under Section 4 of the Competition Act, the Commission must examine

whether a dominant player is abusing its position in ways that cause an anti-

competitive effect in the market. The focus is not on the alleged conduct but on

its actual effects. An effects analysis is indispensable when determining those

effects. This was affirmed by COMPAT, which set aside Commission decisions

on the basis that they failed to demonstrate the anti-competitive effects of

allegedly abusive conduct. It is claimed that the Commission incorrectly asserts 35 Paragraph 97, Harshita Chawla v. WhatsApp Inc. & Others , Case No. 15 of 2020 36 Harshita Chawla v. WhatsApp Inc. & Others , Competition Appeal (AT) 22 of 2020 37 Schott Glass Decision - Schott Glass India Pvt Ltd & Others v. Competition Commission of India & Others, Appeal
No. 91-92 of 2012, Paragraphs 54-55

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 56 of 184
 that it need not undertake an effects analysis and does not identify an actual

anti-competitive effect. It attempts to bypass this requirement by arguing that

it could simply find a violation based on the "potential impact" and "likelihood"

of effects (Paragraph 238, Impugned Order). This argument fails as a matter of

law because: 90. The Commission was required to demonstrate such harm with evidence,

such as a user survey determining if the 2021 Update adversely impacted users,

their motivation to accept the 2021 Update, and whether such users were

unable to use or move to alternative consumer communication apps. The

Commission was also required to demonstrate how the 2021 Update excluded

an actual competitor from the market or created a barrier to entry for a potential

competitor. The Commission has done none of the above, with the weight of the

evidence directly contradicting the findings that form the basis of the Impugned

Order. 91. The Commission's failure to identify actual anti-competitive effects is

exacerbated by its failure to weigh the many pro-competitive benefits from

WhatsApp user data sharing with Meta, including that it enables WhatsApp and

Meta to provide users, businesses, and advertisers with new and innovative

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 57 of 184
 features. For example, WhatsApp's user data sharing enables features such as

'Click to WhatsApp' (CTWA) advertisements, business messaging, and,

importantly, cross-platform safety and security to detect and prevent harmful

activities. 92. Appellant further claims that to circumvent its obligation to identify

actual effects, the Commission claims that a Section 4 violation may be based

on the "potential" and "likelihood" of effects. However, this Tribunal has held

that an abuse of dominance must be based on actual anti-competitive effects

determined by an effects analysis: [ Paragraph 66, 21Google LLC v. Competition Commission of India,
 Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2023 (Google NCLAT Decision) 93. Likewise, the Competition Appellate Tribunal and the Commission have

dismissed allegations of abuse where an actual anti-competitive effect had not

been shown. 94. Moreover, the legislative history of the Competition Act , supported by the

Raghavan Committee (the High-Level Committee on Competition Policy and

Law, whose report served as the basis for the abuse of dominance provisions),

establishes that a Section 4 violation must be based on actual, not potential,

anti-competitive effects. Parliament's ongoing efforts to introduce a digital

competition law aimed at proscribing conduct based on potential anti-

competitive effects (ex-ante regulation) also confirm that the current law

requires violations to be based on actual harm (ex-post regulation). Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 58 of 184 95. In any case, even under its own flawed framework that ignores judicial

precedent, the Commission fails to establish even the "potential impact" and

"likelihood" of effects because it does not explain: (i) what threshold must be

met to satisfy the "likelihood" criterion; or (ii) provide evidence of how any such

threshold was met in this case. 96. Countering the arguments regarding identifying actual anti-competitive

effects, and instead relying on "potential" effects and no user survey, the

Commission argues that the contention that a user survey is a sine qua non of

an effects analysis of potential harm under Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act is

misplaced for several reasons. Firstly, it claims that data privacy of users is

recognized by competition regulators as a critical non-price parameter of

competition, which is valued on par with other service attributes like quality,

customer service, and innovation. Loss of privacy resulting from mandatory

and/or excessive data collection is considered as reduction in quality of

services. Commission also contends that there is no requirement of a user

survey to establish that such loss of user data privacy actually or potentially

results in competitive harm and violates competition law. Competition

regulators act in anticipation of harm to consumer choice and competition,

rather than waiting for large numbers of users to protest especially in digital

markets where network lock-in can mute overt expressions of dissatisfaction.

Commission contends one cannot simply assume "no survey no harm" in cases

concerning digital platforms abusive conduct. Users in these markets tolerate

or click "accept" on expansive data sharing terms not because they truly

consent in a meaningful way, but because of a mix of behavioural biases, lack

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 59 of 184
 of bargaining power, information asymmetry, and market frictions leave them

with little practical choice. Commission also contends that competition

authorities look at the market structure (high market share, lack of close

substitutes, switching costs, direct and indirect network effects) to infer that

users were effectively coerced to accept terms. When exit is not feasible, users'

silent acquiescence cannot be equated with genuine approval. In fact, in the

present case, the 2021 Policy was mandatorily imposed on a majority of the

users, which is discussed in separate paragraphs herein. Moreover, modern

digital platforms employ subtle design tactics to nudge user behaviour to benefit

the company at the expense of user choice. For example, repeatedly prompting

users to accept new terms, or making the "accept" button prominent while any

alternative is buried, can lead to high consent rates that do not reflect true

preference. The foregoing aspects have also been examined by the CCI.

Commission also contends it is neither practical nor required to conduct a

referendum among millions of users (as WhatsApp/Meta suggest) to ask "Are

you unhappy with this policy?". To say that CCI substituted its views for user

will ignore that the CCI is an expert-led regulator that acted as a guardian of

consumer welfare from a competition perspective, in a situation where users

individually had little power to enforce their will. This is precisely the purpose

of competition law enforcement against dominant firms. Commission also

contends that as a corollary of the above, under Indian competition law there is

no requirement to conduct a user survey to establish actual or potential anti-

competitive harm, The CCI's task is to objectively evaluate whether the conduct

of a dominant enterprise (in this case, rollout of the 2021 Policy) results anti-

competitive harm. To this end, the CCI is required to evaluate and establish

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 60 of 184
 whether such conduct meets the statutory criteria under Section 438 of the Act. Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act has two ingredients-one, the element of imposition;

and two, an "unfair condition'. Both elements have been comprehensively

evaluated and established by the CCI, with reference to international

jurisprudence and a detailed analysis of potential anti-competitive harm

resulting therefrom. In the context of the 2021 Policy of WhatsApp, the element

of imposition' stands established by way of a detailed analysis of the initial 38 Section 4. Abuse of dominant position. 1[(1) No enterprise or group shall abuse its dominant position.]
(2) There shall be an abuse of dominant position 2[under sub-section (1), if an enterprise or a group],-- (a) directly or indirectly, imposes unfair or discriminatory-- (i) condition in purchase or sale of goods or service; or (ii) price in purchase or sale (including predatory price) of goods or service.

 Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, the unfair or discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of
 goods or service referred to in sub-clause (i) and unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale of goods (including predatory price) or service
 referred to in sub-clause (ii) shall not include such 3[condition or price] which may be adopted to meet the
 competition; or (b) limits or restricts-- (i) production of goods or provision of services or market therefor; or (ii) technical or scientific development relating to goods or services to the prejudice of consumers; or (c) indulges in practice or practices resulting in denial of market access 4[in any manner]; or (d) makes conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by other parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or
according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts; or (e) uses its dominant position in one relevant market to enter into, or protect, other relevant market. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the expression-- (a) "dominant position" means a position of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant market, in India, which
 enables it to-- (i) operate independently of competitive forces prevailing in the relevant market; or (ii) affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant market in its favour; (b) "predatory price" means the sale of goods or provision of services, at a price which is below the cost, as may be
 determined by regulations, of production of the goods or provision of services, with a view to reduce competition or
 eliminate the competitors; 4[(c) "group" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (b) of the Explanation to section 5 .]

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 61 of 184
 rollout of the policy, where between 05.01.2021 and 07.05.2021 users were

repeatedly prompted by WhatsApp to accept the policy (and wide data sharing

terms therein) or lose access to WhatsApp services. By WhatsApp's own

admission, during this 4-month period when users were under the impression

that it was mandatory to consent to the policy, a majority of WhatsApp users

(264,500,000 users) accepted the 2021 Policy, which represents 61% of

WhatsApp's Daily Active Users (DAUS). CCI has noted that even thereafter,

when the 2021 Policy mandate was temporarily suspended by way of a

notification, users were still being prompted frequently to accept the 2021

Policy. Importantly, the CCI has examined why such consent, obtained by a

dominant enterprise from users under the threat / fear of losing access to

WhatsApp services and through frequent prompts, does not amount to valid

user consent from a competition perspective, and thus satisfies the element of

imposition' under Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. Commission also contends the

element of 'unfair condition' stands established by way of a detailed analysis of

the expanded scope of user data collection under the 2021 Policy. This analysis

includes comparison of data collection terms in the 2016 Policy and 2021 Policy,

as well as the expanded data sharing resulting from launch of new business

features by WhatsApp in 2018 which facilitate interactions between businesses

and ordinary users. There is also no dispute with the fact that under the 2021

Policy, user data collected by WhatsApp can be utilised by Meta for non-

WhatsApp purposes, i.e. for purposes other than improving the WhatsApp

service collected data collection by WhatsApp. The impugned order contains a

detailed analysis of the potentially harmful anti-competitive effects that result

from expanded user data collection for non-WhatsApp purposes by a dominant

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 62 of 184
 enterprise like the Appellant(s), including references to international

jurisprudence. 97. The Commission has also brought to our notice that CCI conducted an

extensive qualitative effects analysis of the competitive harm caused to

advertisers due to the sharing of WhatsApp user data by Appellants with

various Meta companies/platforms. In this regard, statements of several Meta's

competitors and digital advertising companies have also been considered. These

have been noted in detail in herein after by us in effects analysis to specifically

understand effects analysis of competitive harm in the display advertising

market. The Commission has also brought to our notice that it has conducted

an extensive qualitative effects analysis of the competitive harm caused to

advertisers due to the sharing of WhatsApp user data by Appellants with

various Meta companies/platforms. In this regard, statements of several Meta's

competitors and digital advertising companies have been considered, in a

summarised manner are being noted hereinafter. 98. Various 3rd party submissions (Inuxu, InMobi, OpenX, Affle, Ally

Digital, Collectent) confirm that the 2021 WhatsApp Policy and its integration

with Facebook enhances Facebook's already dominant position in digital

advertising: 98.3 Improved ad effectiveness: This deeper, current, and more accurate

understanding of users strengthens Facebook's ability to run targeted

campaigns, making it a preferred partner for advertisers

98.4 Higher ad revenues: Better targeting directly translates into higher ad

revenues, as brands spend more when ads are effective and relevant.

98.5 Revenue impact: More advertisers shifting budgets to Facebook due to its

superior targeting will increase Facebook's ad revenues, indirectly impacting

competitors' profitability and forcing them to incur higher costs (e.g., integration

with third-party Data Management Platforms). 98.6 Market concentration: Data sharing strengthens Facebook's dominant

market share in display advertising and raises entry/expansion barriers for

other players, making it harder for independent AdTech firms to compete. [Paras

189-191, 193.1-193.7, 194.1-194.3 @ pgs. 116-119 of Impugned Order]

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 64 of 184
 98.7 Tyroo, SVG Media, Xapads similarly highlighted that the 2021 WhatsApp

Policy strengthens Facebook's position in digital advertising: 99. Other submissions of Tyroo, Xapads, Snap, and LinkedIn underscored

that scale and history of user data constitute the biggest entry barriers in digital

advertising: 100. Moreover, Taboola and LinkedIn further stressed Facebook's ability to

combine on-platform and off-platform data to reinforce its competitive

advantage: 101.1 Privacy vs monetization trade-off: Platforms like Snap that emphasize

user privacy face greater difficulty in monetizing their user base, since

advertiser demand depends on granular datasets. Entrants must also incur

high costs to build proprietary ad-tech infrastructure to compete. [Para 188.6

@pg. 112 of Impugned Order, Confidential]

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 66 of 184
 101.2 Tying of the 2021 Policy: By tying user acceptance of WhatsApp's 2021

policy update with Facebook data-sharing, newer and smaller firms will find

India foreclosed to effective entry. Venture capital will avoid investing in

challengers due to low ROI prospects. [Para 188.13 @pg. 114 of Impugned

Order, Confidential] 102. Pinterest submitted that larger multi-property digital advertising

platforms such as Facebook and Google enjoy economies of scale, giving them

access to greater volumes of data and more frequent user engagement: [Paras 205.1-205.4 @pgs. 125-126 of Impugned Order]

102.4 Superior access to data leads to perception of superior ads offerings: 103. Additionally, the Commission has also brought to our notice that it has

taken note of Facebook's own admission from the filing of FORM 10-Q filed

by Facebook for the quarter ending on 31.03.2021 Securities Exchange

Commission (SEC) of the United States of America. In the said form, Facebook

has admitted that the data-sharing between WhatsApp and Facebook aids

Facebook in providing services as well as targeted ads to the users. [Para 206 @

pgs. 126-127 of Impugned Order] 104. The Commission has argued that given the foregoing submissions of third

parties and Meta, it is clear that extensive data collection significantly enhances

a digital advertising platform's ability to meet these objectives. [Para 207 @ pg.

127 of Impugned Order] 105. In its Rejoinder submissions WhatsApp Case claims that the

Commission's submission that users should be treated as a separate "class",

and therefore, it is not required to conduct "individual user surveys is

fundamentally flawed. The Commission must conduct an effects analysis to

arrive at a Section 4 violation. The Commission argues that they need not reach

out to individual users because "users as a class were harmed. This is flawed

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 68 of 184
 on several levels. In order to demonstrate that the class was harmed, the

Commission needed to have provided some evidence of harm to members of that

class The Commission admits no evidence was collected no user or member of

that class was examined. "Hard evidence is replaced with the mere assertion

that because some users had accepted the 2021 Update before 7 May 2021,

compulsion must be assumed. This is precisely the kind of 'untested assertions

that the Hon'ble Supreme Court condemned in the 39Schott Glass SC Decision

[CCI v Schott Glass India Pvt Ltd. & Anr, 2025 SCC Online SC 1097, para 75].

The Commission cannot simply assume facts, such as user coercion,

expectations, confusion, or the ability to switch to competing platforms, without

positive evidence. Such positions must rest on empirical and "hard evidence" as

laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 39Schott Glass SC Decision [Refer: 106. Appellant in its rejoinder contends that the Commission has failed to

address WhatsApp's submissions on lack of effects analysis. The Commission

has contended that (a) the fact that many users accepted the 2021 Update: and (b) Meta's alleged gains/benefits/advantages in the online display advertising

market, as provided in table below Para 219, p. 435, Impugned Order, Vol II.

Meta Appeal are sufficient to demonstrate the anti-competitive effects of the

2021 Update under Section 4 of the Competition Act. 107. Appellant claims that these are claimed to be contrary to evidence and

findings on record. First, the acceptance rate data demonstrates no anti-

competitive effects. The Commission says that the mere fact that many users

had accepted by 7 May demonstrates abuse and effect. The Commission's

submission is entirely without evidence. Further no users were contacted to

determine their rationale of accepting the terms before 7 May 2021. The

evidence that exists is to the contrary. Only 241,917.132 users that existed as

of 4 January 2021 (or 40-45% (43.3%)) accepted the 2021 Update between 4

January 2021 and 7 May 2021. Almost as many users (40-45% (41%)) accepted

the 2021 Update after 7 May 2021 (when there was admittedly no "take it or

leave it condition), while approximately 15% have still not accepted the 2021

Update as on 28 March 2023. This belies any argument that the 2021 Update

was imposed. If nearly 60% of users did not feel compelled to accept the update,

the Commission cannot assume compulsion for the 40-45% (43.3%) who chose

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 70 of 184
 to accept the 2021 Update before 7 May 2021. Second, the Commission relies

on the table below Para 219 p. 435, Impugned Order. The table pertains to the

period up to Q2 of 2021 (i.e. when the 2021 Update had just come into effect)

and, therefore, does not include data for any significant time after the 2021

Update, or the effects of the 2021 Update. In fact, it is their own case that till

2021, WhatsApp was not sharing any data with Meta for advertising purposes.

Therefore, per the Commission, the growth of Meta's ads revenue is unrelated

to any data received from WhatsApp, as evidenced by this table. This also

contradicts the Commission's own arguments in the Impugned Order, where

they assert that the effects may take place in the future. Third, in any event, the

Commission has not shown any evidence that WhatsApp's sharing of data with

Meta for non-advertising purposes causes or is likely to cause anticompetitive

effects. In fact, when Meta explained that WhatsApp only shares limited data

with Meta for advertising purposes, the Commission shifted focus and raised

hypothetical concerns about data shared for non-advertising purposes, without

any effects analysis. Accordingly, the finding insofar as it relates to data sharing

for non-advertising purposes must be set aside due to a lack of effects analysis. 108. One of the major issues before us is whether the Competition Commission

of India (CCI) conducted the required effects analysis in an appropriate manner

or not. Our appraisal on this is noted herein. We note that under Section 4 of

the Competition Act, proving abuse of dominance requires an effects analysis

focused on actual or potential anti-competitive effects rather than just the

alleged conduct, which the CCI undertook through qualitative assessment of

consumer harm and competitive impact. The CCI relied on extensive qualitative

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 71 of 184
 evidence including the detailed cataloguing of data types collected under

WhatsApp's 2021 Policy, comparative analysis with previous policies, and

examination of market structure factors such as dominance, network effects,

and switching costs influencing user choice. The Commission incorporated

extensive market feedback and submissions from competitors and advertising

companies (such as InMobi, Affle, Taboola, LinkedIn, Snap, Tyroo, and Xapads),

which qualitatively demonstrate how WhatsApp's data sharing with Meta

strengthens Facebook's dominant position in the digital advertising ecosystem

and adversely impacts competition. User coercion and imposition of the Policy

were evaluated qualitatively through patterns of user prompts, acceptance

rates, and the market situation where users faced a take-it-or-leave-it choice,

demonstrating effective loss of meaningful consent without reliance on user

surveys. The CCI effectively balanced the qualitative evidence of anti-competitive

harm against claimed pro-competitive benefits, including innovation and

security features enabled by data sharing, to reach a reasoned conclusion on

harm to consumer welfare and market competition. We also find that the CCI's

approach aligns with accepted competition law principles that effects can be

demonstrated from market structure, conduct, and qualitative evidence without

requiring exhaustive quantitative user surveys especially in digital dominance

cases where network effects and market power mute overt consumer resistance.

In brief, we find that the CCI conducted a comprehensive and robust qualitative

effects analysis incorporating multi-dimensional market and consumer impact

evidence, competitor testimonials, and detailed comparative policy assessment,

which firmly supports the conclusion of abuse of dominant position by

WhatsApp. Furthermore, this qualitative approach to effects analysis is

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 72 of 184
 recognized and accepted in competition jurisprudence, especially in complex

digital markets where harms arise from non-price and multi-sided platform

conduct. 109. We also need to be aware of another aspect which is brought to our notice

by the Commission that that Competition law permits intervention on likely

harm (as noted by this Tribunal) especially in fast-moving digital markets and

where data integration is irreversible and thus, regulators need not wait for

damage that cannot be undone. Competition law can prohibit abuse even before

its full effects play out. Otherwise, dominant firms could always evade liability

by arguing "no harm yet" while setting in motion strategies that solidify their

dominance. 110. Perusal of materials placed on record and also basis the arguments of

both sides we don't find any infirmity that DG and CCI have failed to conduct a

user survey of WhatsApp's users to gauge whether their consent to the 2021

Policy was based on valid consent and the underlying privacy concerns, as

perceived by users. We also don't find any the arguments convincing that the

CCI has substituted users' views with its own and the same does not meet the

requisite legal standard of effects analysis required to be conducted by the CCI

prior to arriving at a finding that Appellants' conduct amounted to imposition

of an unfair condition under Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Competition Act ('Act'). We

find that the Commission has done a detailed qualitative analysis to determine

effects caused by conduct of the Appellant as has been noted herein. The

Appellants have provided the numbers of users who have joined the 2021

WhatsApp policy over a period of time between its announcement on 4 January

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 73 of 184
 202140 and user information notice for effective date of 7 May 202141 and

claims that as of 28th March 2023, 15% users have still not accepted the Update

and claims that this belies any argument that the 2021 Update was imposed.

On the contrary Commission claims that the mere fact that many users had

accepted by 7 May demonstrates abuse and effect. We note that the exact

numbers are not important in the above noted. We find Commission's argument

to be convincing. And with respect to growth of Meta's ads revenue it is strong

case of the Commission that effects may take place in the future.

I. Relevant markets delineation? 111. Under Section 2(r) of the Act, the relevant market may refer to the

product, geographic or both markets. The relevant product market ( Section 2(t) )

includes products or services that are interchangeable or substitutable based

on characteristics, price, or intended use, with factors such as consumer

preference and switching costs guiding the analysis ( Section 19(7) ). The relevant

geographic market ( Section 2(s) ) refers to the area where competition conditions

are homogenous, determined by factors like trade barriers, transport costs, and

consumer preferences ( Section 19(6) ). 112. CCI framed the case by defining two relevant markets: OTT messaging

apps on smartphones in India (i.e. WhatsApp's messaging service) (Market1)

and Online display advertising in India (Market 2). We delve into details as to

whether the two relevant markets were delineated correctly or not. 40 4 January 2021: WhatsApp announced its 2021 Terms of Service and Privacy Policy (2021 Update), applicable to
users in India and several other countries (excluding the EEA) including the United States of America (United States). 41 7 May 2021: WhatsApp published a Help Centre Article titled "About the effective date", informing users that
no one will have their accounts deleted or lose functionality of WhatsApp on 15 May 2021 because of the 2021
Update. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 74 of 184 113. Appellant claims that the Impugned Order incorrectly delineates the

relevant market as the market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones

in India. In reaching this conclusion, the Impugned Order fails to conduct an

independent and structured market definition assessment. Section 4 of the

Competition Act, which prohibits abuse of a dominant position, applies only to

an enterprise found to be dominant in a relevant market. Defining the relevant

market is a necessary first step in any abuse of dominance analysis. The

Commission committed fundamental errors in defining the relevant market like

applying the legal test set by the Competition Act and established standards for

defining relevant product and geographic markets, failing to carry out an

independent analysis, ignoring exculpatory submissions made by other third

parties supporting WhatsApp's position. 114. The Commission failed to assess demand-side substitutability under Section 2(t) of the Competition Act, which requires an assessment of the

substitutability of products/services for consumers. There was a failure to

contact WhatsApp users or other competing apps' users or to collect relevant

evidence (e.g., market reports) to ascertain demand-side substitutability. The

Commission ignored evidence of "multi-homing," where users regularly switch

between various online service providers. The Impugned Order failed to conduct

proper economic analysis tailored to the unique characteristics of zero-priced

markets (like WhatsApp's). By neglecting to undertake a proper economic

analysis, the Commission's findings on market definition are legally flawed. 115. The Commission disregarded exculpatory statements from WhatsApp's

rivals, who clarified facing competitive constraints from a range of competitors

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 75 of 184
 including those offering social media and communication services. BlackBerry

noted an incentive among both OTT platforms and social media service

providers to offer messaging, voice/video communications, and social media as

a combined product--a point ignored by the Commission. 116. The Commission incorrectly claimed WhatsApp did not provide data

showing exclusion of major competitors, despite WhatsApp's evidence of

significant competition from platforms like Telegram and Signal, and multi-

homing behaviors. The Commission's sole reliance on user base as a proxy for

market power overlooks factors such as multi-homing, switching costs, and

presence of substitutes. The relevant market analysis is further flawed by the

Commission's reliance on narrow interpretations of "functionality" and device

distinctions, ignoring dynamic consumer preferences and technological

convergence. 117. The Impugned Order incorrectly segments the market by app

functionality and device-type, failing to acknowledge that most consumer

communication platforms operate across devices and offer similar

functionalities (including WhatsApp, FaceTime, iMessage, Discord, Slack,

Telegram, etc.). It incorrectly excludes SMS and MMS from the relevant market,

despite their functional parity with OTT messaging services in satisfying

communication needs and user substitution behavior. It erroneously excludes

proprietary apps like iMessage and FaceTime, overlooking their functional

similarities and interoperability developments. The exclusion contradicts the

Commission's own prior findings where proprietary messaging services were

included in the same relevant market (see Paragraph 14, Vinod Gupta CCI). Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 76 of 184 118. The Impugned Order improperly limits the relevant geographic market to

India, disregarding the global nature of digital markets and past Commission

observations on the inherently cross-border character of consumer

communication services. 119. WhatsApp operates in a broad, highly competitive market for user

attention, not merely within a narrow market for OTT messaging apps. Services

that compete for user attention include social networking, messaging, gaming,

content, and music--demonstrating functional substitutability and competitive

market dynamics. Events such as the "Outage" on October 4, 2021, illustrated

real-world substitutability among platforms, which the Commission failed to

meaningfully consider. 120. The Commission's analogy between digital platforms and unrelated

services (like cinema halls and restaurants) mischaracterizes competition

dynamics among consumer digital services. The Commission's rejection of a

user attention market was not substantiated by evidence. Attempts to segment

the market further by device-type or core functionality ignore both economic

realities and legal standards, contributing to an artificially narrow and flawed

definition. 121. The delineation of the alleged relevant market in the Impugned Order is

erroneous and should be set aside, as the Commission failed to undertake a

structured market definition exercise, multiple errors compounded the already

flawed market analysis, WhatsApp operates in the broader market for user

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 77 of 184
 attention or, alternatively, in the dynamic and evolving consumer

communication services segment. 122. Briefly speaking Appellant contends that the Commission incorrectly

defined the relevant market as "the market for OTT messaging apps through

smartphones in India" [Paragraph 51, Impugned Order]. However, it makes this

determination without conducting an independent, structured market

definition assessment and failing to properly account for economic realities and

the full set of competitive constraints and competitors. Indeed, in reaching its

conclusion, the Commission: (i) failed to assess demand-side substitutability,

failing to survey any users; (ii) excluded large categories of rivals that offer the

same functionalities as, and are substitutable with, WhatsApp (e.g., iMessage,

Facetime, Google Messages, SMS and MMS, as well as the wide adoption of the

RCS protocol which makes rivals such as iMessage and Google Messages

interoperable); and (iii) incorrectly limited the geographic market to India despite

the fact that the services are inherently cross-border. 123. The Commission on the hand contends that relevant markets and

dominance have been correctly assessed. The following relevant markets were

delineated for the purposes of the present matter: 124. In this Section we appraise whether relevant markets were appropriately

delineated or not. Under Section 2(r) of the Competition Act, relevant markets

include both product and geographic markets, defined by interchangeability or

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 78 of 184
 substitutability of products/services and by competitive conditions that are

homogeneous respectively. We find that the CCI conducted a detailed

assessment of user behavior, technological features, and market structure,

recognizing the core market as OTT messaging apps through smartphones, in

line with economic realities shaped by consumer preferences and switching

costs. The CCI also analyzed functional substitutability and proximity of

competitors, distinguishing WhatsApp's position within a distinct digital

messaging app market that includes rivals like Telegram and Signal, alongside

the complementary online display advertising market--both relevant for

assessing dominance and abuse. 125. The CCI's delineation respects legislative standards and precedents by

focusing on platforms that provide similar services within comparable

technological frameworks and user devices, with due consideration of consumer

use patterns and competitive constraints. The geographic market was

appropriately confined to India, reflecting regulatory jurisdiction and consumer

base specifics, aligned with competition law principles regarding geographic

market definition. The Commission's approach recognizes network effects,

multi-homing behavior, and related digital market dynamics consistent with

established competition law methodology for market definition in digital sectors. 126. The delineation facilitates a nuanced abuse of dominance assessment by

appropriately segmenting messaging app services from broader digital content

markets, ensuring targeted and relevant regulatory scrutiny. Thus, the

Competition Commission's market delineation for OTT messaging apps and

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 79 of 184
 online display advertising in India stands as a reasoned, legally sound, and

empirically supported foundation for its abuse of dominance analysis.

J. Relevant Market 1: OTT messaging apps on smartphones in India ||Was
 it correctly identified? 127. We look into the Market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones in

India ('Market 1'). It is contended by the Respondent-Commission that

WhatsApp is an OTT messaging app that is linked to smartphone devices. It was

brought to our notice that in the process of defining the market, a number of

broader market definitions were considered and rejected. They are examined

individually herein after. 128. First, the Appellant proposed that the market be defined as the "market

for user attention." Appellant Contends that WhatsApp operates in the broad

and highly competitive market for user attention. It competes with all digital

products and services that seek to capture user attention through different

services or functionalities, such as social networking, messaging, gaming,

content viewing and sharing, photo and video sharing, or music, amongst many

others. Reliance on Outage data when WhatsApp was not functioning, Netflix,

X, Snapchat all saw increases in user engagement. [Para 47.1 of the Impugned

Order]. This is accentuated by fact of multihoming-most users have all kinds of

apps on devices and therefore switch between different forms of engagement.

Users regularly switch between various multi-functional online service

providers (i.e., multihoming), and that new and existing online competitors are

constantly evolving, innovating, and adopting new features (including rich

communication services as well as other features) to attract and retain user

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 80 of 184
 interest. No demand-side study was done to analyse this. [Para 47.5 of the

Impugned Order]. 129. While countering delineation of the market as per the Appellants, CCI

argues that, defining the market broadly as a 'market for user attention' is akin

to arguing that all goods and services a consumer can buy with their disposable

income are substitutes simply because money is a common medium for

purchase. Such an approach incorrectly suggests that everything a consumer

spends their money on whether groceries, clothing. entertainment, or travel

belongs to a single market, which contradicts established competition law

principles of substitutability. Just as these diverse categories cannot be lumped

into the same market merely because they all compete for a share of the

consumer's wallet, digital platforms cannot be considered part of a single

'market for user attention' simply because they vie for time spent on their

platforms. [Para 48.2 of the Impugned Order]. Consumer shift during the outage

appears to be temporary and driven by the lack of access to their preferred

platform, not a non-transitory behavioural change that suggests these services

are direct substitutes. [Para 48.4 of Impugned Order]. There is a high level of

dependence of consumers on WhatsApp. Extent of multi-homing, as indicated

by Dr. Pinar Akman paper, seems incorrect. If, as stated in the paper, 86% of

users multi-home between WhatsApp's and its competitors, then WhatsApp's

competitors' MAUs should be much higher (as opposed to only 86 million users

for Telegram compared with WhatsApp 534 million users). Telegram and Signal

have much smaller user bases compared to WhatsApp [Paras 91-92 @pgs. 47-

48 of Impugned Order]. Efficacy of multi-homing is greatly reduced by network

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 81 of 184
 effects, and the fact that these messaging apps are not interoperable. Activity

will therefore remain concentrated on apps with bigger user base, even if there

is multi-homing; consequently, dependence of consumers on that app doesn't

really diminish. [Paras 93-94 @pg. 48 of Impugned Order). 130. Looking at the arguments of both sides, we cannot agree with defining the

relevant market as "market for user attention" for simple reasons that such a

market is not a focussed or targeted market. We find the arguments of the

Commission to be convincing that diverse categories cannot be lumped into the

same market. 131. It is also brought to our notice that Appellants proposed that the market

be defined as "the market for consumer communication services", and that such

a market include (a) email services; (b) video conferencing services; (c)

conventional messaging services; (d) apps like Koo, Slack, and Discord that are

not OTT messaging apps but nonetheless have messaging functionalities

alongside their other features; (d) apps that are not mobile phone but instead

computer-centric; and (e) mobile phone apps that are limited to a single

operating system. However, we were informed by the Commission that each of

these must be excluded as not being substitutable on the grounds as explained

hereinafter. 132. Email services are not same as OTT Messaging Apps via Smartphones.

Email is typically used for more formal, structured communication and often

involves longer messages with detailed content or attachments like documents

and files. It is suited for professional or official exchanges and does not

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 82 of 184
 emphasize real-time interaction. In contrast, OTT messaging apps are designed

for instant, real-time communication, favouring shorter, conversational

messages with features like multimedia sharing, voice and video calls, providing

a more dynamic and interactive communication experience. [Para 48.7 @pgs.

27-28 of Impugned Order]. 133. Video conferencing (VC) services are not same as OTT Messaging Apps via

Smartphones. OTT apps lack the advanced capabilities that define video

conferencing solutions like Zoom, Google Meet, Microsoft Teams, and Cisco

Webex. Video conferencing apps are built for more structured, professional

meetings and can support a larger number of participants, cross-platform

compatibility (across phones, tablets, and computers), screen sharing,

recording, and the ability to invite participants. [Para 48.11 @ pg 30 of

Impugned Order) 134. Conventional messaging services are not same as OTT Messaging Apps

via Smartphones. Unlike conventional messaging services that rely on the

telecom network's infrastructure, OTT messaging relies solely on an internet-

based data connection (such as Wi-Fi or mobile data). Users are not dependent

on their carrier's voice or text services and can communicate freely as long as

they have internet access. OTT apps therefore also have a significant cost

advantage over SMS/MMS/RCS. Additionally, they provide a host of additional

features, such as online status indicator, read receipts, and profile information.

On the other hand, SMS/MMS/RCS allow communication across different

devices, networks, and operating systems without requiring a specific app,

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 83 of 184
 unlike OTT messaging apps, which are closed user group services. These are

therefore distinct markets. [Para 48.5-48.6 @pg. 27 of Impugned Order]. 135. OTT apps are not same as OTT Messaging Apps via Smartphones. OTT

messaging apps like WhatsApp are designed primarily for instant, real-time

communication, including text messaging, voice and video calls, and

multimedia sharing. In contrast, Koo and X (Twitter) primarily serve as

microblogging and social networking platforms, where the focus is on public

broadcasting, following, and interacting with content from a broad audience.

They are designed for sharing news, opinions, and engaging in public discourse,

not for private, one-on-one or group communication. Similarly, Slack and

Discord are primarily collaboration tools, intended for team communication and

project management in professional or community settings. They are not seen

as substitutable with OTT apps. [Para 48.9 @pgs. 29 of Impugned Order] 136. Computer-centric apps are not same as OTT Messaging Apps via

Smartphones: WhatsApp Web or the desktop version still requires a phone

number and an active connection to a smartphone. This prerequisite means

that WhatsApp's core service is inherently tied to a smartphone, making it

fundamentally different from communication services that can operate

independently on computers. Apps available computers only lack reasonable

substitutability with mobile apps due to key functional difference between both

in terms of mobility, at any rate, even if WhatsApp's argument were accepted, it

would not significantly change market dynamics since Meta's dominance with

WhatsApp, due to its vast user base and smartphone-centric approach would

remain largely unaffected. [Para 48.10 @ pgs. 29-30 of Impugned Order]

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 84 of 184 137. Messaging apps limited to single OS are not same as OTT Messaging Apps

via Smartphones. Consumer communication apps that are proprietary and

limited to a single operating system, such as Apple's Face Time and iMessage,

are not substitutable for OTT messaging apps (interoperable across devices)

because they restrict communication to users within a specific ecosystem,

creating a "walled garden" effect. [Para 48.8 @ pgs. 28-29 of Impugned Order) 138. Bases above explanation, it was brought to our attention by the

Commission that in essence, OTT messaging apps are unique. They allow users

to engage in individual or group conversations without restrictions on the length

of messages, enabling unlimited communication that is not constrained by

character limits. Beyond just text, they support rich media communication,

including the ability to share images, videos, audio messages, emojis, GIFs, and

location information. They provide features like voice calls and video calls, both

one-on-one and in groups, enhancing their versatility compared to traditional

text messaging. This flexibility makes OTT messaging a distinct choice for a wide

range of communication needs, from casual chats to professional discussions,

and not substitutable with other communication services. [Paras 49-50 @pgs.

31-32 of Impugned Order] 139. Therefore, we find the argument of the Commission to be convincing that

market cannot be defined as "the market for consumer communication

services", as such definition of the market is very broad and specific targeted

product cannot be made for this market and the buyer's requirements can also

be not satisfied by a single product. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 85 of 184 140. Furthermore, we note that Meta argued that the geographical market

must be global and not limited to India. Appellants' stance is that Competitive

and dynamic realities of the market support a global definition of the market.

Players typically operate globally, and functionalities of services rarely differ

from country-to-country. WhatsApp's product decisions are typically are made

on a global basis to offer a consistent user experience across the globe. [Para

47.9 of the Impugned Order]. Rebutting these arguments CCI's Position is that

India has unique regulatory environment that significantly impacts the

operation of OTT messaging services. Regulatory policies, data privacy laws, and

requirements for data localization can differ substantially from those in other

countries, affecting how these services are provided and accessed in India.

Further, it would be erroneous to include competitors not operating in India in

the relevant market based on a global geographic definition. [Para 48.12 of the

Impugned Order] 141. We note that the arguments as presented by the Commission for defining

the relevant market are fully convincing to define it as "the market for OTT

messaging apps through smartphones in India" rather than "market for user

attention" or "the market for consumer communication services" or "global and

not limited to India". This is well defined market, relevant for a product and not

a diffused market and we cannot find infirmity in the findings of the

commission. K. Relevant Market 2: Market for Online Display Advertising in India ||
 Was it correctly identified? 142. Appellant claims that the Competition Commission incorrectly delineates

the relevant market as the "Market for Online Display Advertising in India" and

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 86 of 184
 the Commission committed errors in defining the relevant market. It fails to

properly assess demand-side substitutability, even disregarding evidence that

there is substitutability between: (i) offline advertising and online advertising;

and (ii) online search and display advertising. The mistakes in the Commission's

analysis were further compounded by its (i) misplaced reliance on the decisions

of foreign competition authorities (which are inappropriate given the existence

of applicable Indian law) and dated material; [Paragraphs 115 and 120,

Impugned Order, enclosed at Annexure-1] and (ii) limiting the geographic

market to India based on unverified assertions that conditions of competition

are different in India relative to other parts of the world. [Paragraph 128,

Impugned Order, enclosed at Annexure-1]. Respondent-Commission contends

that the primary revenue generation activity of Meta is online display

advertising. Therefore, it becomes necessary to examine various modes of

advertising and the market dynamics involved therein to identify competitive

constraints on Meta. [Paras 109@pg. 53 of the Impugned Order]. In the process

of defining the market, three broader market definitions were considered and

rejected by the Commission, which are examined individually below. 143. Firstly, Respondent-Commission contends that Appellants proposed a

wide market definition of "market for advertising services" as Online vs. Offline

Advertising. Appellants claim that there exists substitutability between online

and offline advertising and the market must therefore incorporate both.

However, Commission brings to our notice that online and offline advertising

are not substitutable on the following bases: Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 87 of 184
 143.1 Online and offline advertising services represent distinct markets, as per

third-party submissions like those by Snap and foreign authorities like the

European Commission decision in Google Search (AdSense) (Paras 143-147)

case and Digital Platforms Inquiry Final Report by Australian Competition and

Consumer Commission (ACCC; Para 2.6.1). 143.2 Offline advertising primarily aims to raise brand awareness by reaching a

wide audience, while online advertising focuses on driving immediate consumer

actions, such as purchases or downloads, by directly engaging users and

leading them towards specific conversions. 143.3 Online advertising allows users to instantly interact with ads by clicking,

which redirects them to a website or product page, while offline advertising does

not offer immediate interaction, making engagement slower.

143.4 Online advertising offers superior performance tracking, allowing

advertisers to monitor the effectiveness of their campaigns in real time and make

quick adjustments to optimize their strategies, which is not feasible with offline

advertising. 143.5 Online advertising enables tracking of user behaviour, providing insights

into engagement that offline methods cannot match. 143.6 Offline platforms tend to reach a broader, more diverse demographic,

while online advertising allows for more precise targeting, particularly engaging

younger, tech-savvy consumers. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 88 of 184
 143.7 For businesses in modern times, relying entirely on offline advertising is

not a practical option, as it lacks the reach and engagement capabilities that

digital channels have. 144. We find the arguments of the Commission to be convincing that Offline

platforms tend to reach a broader, more diverse demographic, while online

advertising allows precise targeting and for businesses in modern times, relying

entirely on offline advertising is not a practical option, as it lacks the reach and

engagement capabilities that digital channels have. 145. Secondly Respondent-Commission contends that Appellants-Meta

proposed that as an alternative, the relevant market should then be the 'market

for online advertising services' without differentiating between online display

advertising services and online search advertising services. Appellant relied on

submissions of Collectcent, Xapads, and Affle, to argue that advertisers can

switch between the two modes of online advertising (search and display) and

therefore, the two are substitutable. It was further submitted by the Appellant

that technical advancements in digital advertising enables substitutability

between various mediums of advertising. For instance, Google not only runs ads

on its search engine but also has a display advertising delivery system. Lastly,

it was submitted that Google and Amazon, which are Meta's rivals, submitted

that there is substitutability between various mediums of advertising. and these

submissions were ignored by the DG without any reasoning being provided.

Rebutting above claim of relevant market to be 'market for online advertising

services' while not differentiating between online display advertising services

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 89 of 184
 and online search advertising services, Commission claims that submission of

the Appellants are misplaced on account of the following reasons: Instead, they work in tandem to reach customers at different stages of their

buying journeys. 145.9 Submissions as to technical advancements in digital advertising enabling

substitutability between various mediums of advertising deserve to be rejected - all that is shown is that both mediums of advertising can be done by the same

party and on the same web page, not that they are substitutable overall.

145.10 Google itself has been found to be dominant in the online search

advertisement market in In Re: Matrimony.com Limited v. Google LLC & Ors.

Case No. 07 of 2012 (Paras 20-21 and 103-106) and CUTS v. Google LLC &

Ors. Case No. 30 of 2012. The assessment has to be done in the context of

overall information available on record and the corresponding market reality,

and not on the basis of submissions of one or two parties. 145.11 Evidence and precedent from submissions of parties like Snap,

LinkedIn, Taboola, Twitter and numerous others to investigations by ACCC,

CMA, FTC, French Competition Authority, as well as the CCT's own prior

holding in Case No. 07 & 30 of 2012, all support the position that online display

advertising and online search advertising are different markets. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 92 of 184 146. Appellant-Meta also argued that the geographic market should be defined

internationally and not confined to India. To this end, Appellant submitted that

markets for digital services and advertising services are global, and therefore to

limit the market to India would be incorrect. It was further submitted by the

Appellant that players in the advertising market (including Meta's rivals) offer

similar services across countries (including India), and there is therefore

nothing distinct about India that justifies geographically limiting the market.

Finally, the Appellant submitted that its product decisions are generally made

on a global level, and so the market should correctly be seen internationally. 147. On the arguments of the Appellant that geographic market should be

defined internationally and not confined to India, Commission strongly refuted

the same basis the following reasons: L. Dominance in the OTT messaging market: Assessed or not in the
 relevant market? 149. Appellant claims that the Commission incorrectly finds WhatsApp

dominant in the alleged market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones

in India [Paragraph 108, Impugned Order]. This is incorrect because the

Commission firstly ignored evidence demonstrating that WhatsApp is

constrained by competition and countervailing buyer power, such as evidence

of multi-homing and low entry barriers; secondly cherry picked factors under Section 19(3) of the Competition Act to assess WhatsApp's dominance, contrary

to the Hon'ble Supreme Court's decision in 42Coal India v. Competition

Commission of India , (2023) 10 SCC 345 requiring the Commission to

cumulatively consider all the factors [Paragraphs 87-89]; and lastly relied on

Daily Average Users (DAU) and Monthly Average Users (MAU) metrics to

measure dominance, disregarding that they are not suitable for that

determination in dynamic digital markets and especially since rivals like

Telegram and Signal did not provide DAU and MAU data. 150. Appellant claims that the Commission's conclusion that WhatsApp is

dominant is without merit because that determination was made in an

incorrectly defined relevant market (para 117). The Impugned Order incorrectly

concludes Meta (operating through WhatsApp) is dominant in the market for 42 Coal India v. Competition Commission of India , (2023) 10 SCC 345 Supreme Court's decision requires the
Commission to cumulatively consider all the factors

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 94 of 184
 OTT messaging apps through smartphones in India [para 108, Impugned Order,

Annexure 1]. Appellant claims that Dominance must be analyzed in the context

of a correctly defined relevant market. The Impugned Order's dominance

analysis fails at the threshold for this reason. Even without prejudice to

WhatsApp's submissions on the relevant market, the dominance analysis is

flawed, as set out below. 151. Appellant also claims that the Commission's findings on dominance do

not meet the requirements of the Competition Act or Section 19(4) . Explanation (a) to Section 4 of the Competition Act defines a dominant position as a position

of strength that enables an enterprise to (i) operate independently of competitive

forces in the relevant market or (ii) affect competitors/consumers/the relevant

market in its favour. The Competition Act requires all Section 19(4) factors to

be considered when assessing dominance. The Supreme Court affirmed this

cumulative requirement [paras 87-89, 42Coal India v. CCI, 2023 10 SCC 345].

The Commission fails to consider both the definition of dominant position under

Section 4 and several relevant factors set out under Section 19(4) in arriving at

its finding of dominance. For example, the Commission discusses WhatsApp's

position of strength, but does not adequately analyze if this enables WhatsApp

to operate independently of competitive forces or materially affect the market,

which is essential under Indian law. Merely identifying a position of strength is

insufficient unless it is shown to have a material impact on competitive

dynamics. 152. Appellant also claims that the Commission cherry-picks a few factors

under Section 19(4) : (i) market share, (ii) network effects/switching costs/entry

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 95 of 184
 barriers, (iii) consumer dependence, and (iv) size/resources/economic power. It

fails to consider other relevant factors such as: (i) level of vertical integration, (ii) market structure/size, (iii) economic power, (iv) social obligations and costs,

and (v) relative development advantage. Established jurisprudence and

Supreme Court precedent require a holistic assessment, which the Commission

does not undertake. The Commission's findings on dominance are therefore

erroneous [see also paras 12.42-12.43, 43Belaire Owners Assn. v. DLF Ltd.,

Case No. 19 of 2010]. 153. Appellant also claims that the WhatsApp is not dominant in the broader

market for user attention, due to intense competition from global and Indian

players (Google, YouTube, Snap, Telegram, Signal, Clubhouse, Spotify,

ShareChat, Moj, and many more). Many of these rivals are rapidly growing,

precluding any single platform from achieving dominance. The presence of

diverse services and switching reduces consumer lock-in. Digital services with

large user data (e.g., Google, iTunes Ping) have failed historically, reinforcing

that data volume alone does not confer dominance. 154. Appellant also claims that the even in consumer communication services

or a narrow OTT messaging segment, WhatsApp cannot act independently of

market forces. The market is dynamic, with low barriers to entry and rapid

innovation. Users multi-home (use multiple apps), which is evidenced by survey

data (86% of Indian users multi-home, with an average of 3.81 apps per user -

see Statista and Dr. Pinar Akman's Paper, Annexures 40, 41). Portability of user 43 Belaire Owners Assn. v. DLF Ltd., CCI Case No. 19 of 2010...paras 12.42-12.43:CCI held that the same sort of
conduct may be abusive for a dominant firm, but not be abusive for a non-dominant firm. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 96 of 184
 data, interoperability, and ease of switching further undermine dominance

claims. WhatsApp must continuously innovate in response to rivals, illustrating

its lack of independence [e.g., group video calls and disappearing messages

introduced to counter competition]. 155. Appellant also contends that the Impugned Order leans on DAU (daily

active users) and MAU (monthly active users) as proxies for dominance. This is

flawed as: 156. Other data (e.g., Statista Survey) is used in a static manner, not capturing

the dynamic and multi-homing nature of Indian users. 157. Appellant also claims that the OTT messaging market has low entry costs

and asset size does not create dominance; success comes from innovation and

responsiveness (as shown by new entrants and failed incumbents). High R&D

investment by Meta/WhatsApp indicates competitive pressure, not dominance

[Impugned Order, para 99, Annexure 1]. 158. Appellant also claims that the users have substantial countervailing

power, evidenced by the capacity to multi-home and switch easily among a wide

range of apps. The Commission misapplies Statista survey results and does not

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 97 of 184
 properly calculate WhatsApp's actual usage share in a multi-homing

environment. High multi-homing and innovation by competitors (Telegram,

Signal, Moj, Josh, etc.) indicate that WhatsApp cannot operate independently. 159. Appellant also contends that the Impugned Order overstates network

effects and ignores that low switching costs, high multi-homing, and new

entrants (e.g., Telegram, Moj, Josh) offset any entrenchment. The assertion of a

"winner-takes-most" market is not supported given the evidence of user

switching and competitor growth. 160. Telegram, Signal, Snapchat, ShareChat, Moj, Josh, LinkedIn, X (formerly

Twitter), YouTube, Netflix, Zoom, Skype, Microsoft Teams, Google Meet, TikTok,

Roposo and others have amassed significant user bases and continue to grow.

These rivals' innovations (e.g., Telegram's group video and chat transfers) and

the rise of new technologies demonstrate that WhatsApp faces constant

competition and cannot sustain dominance. Rapid changes in consumer

preferences (e.g., during the COVID-19 pandemic), new technologies (AI,

AR/VR), evolving services from telecom operators (RCS, default messaging

apps), further illustrate a highly competitive, changing environment. 161. Appellant also contends that the Impugned Order's findings on

dominance are erroneous and should be set aside because: Section 19 . Inquiry into certain agreements and dominant position of enterprise.
(1) ... (2) .... (3) .... (4) The Commission shall, while inquiring whether an enterprise enjoys a dominant position or not under section
4, have due regard to all or any of the following factors, namely:-- 34-36 the Impugned Order]. DAU is a critical measure of competitiveness and

success. Messaging involves frequent, often daily exchanges such as text,

(7) .... Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 100 of 184
 media, and group interactions that reflect how integral the app is to users'

communication. High DAU levels therefore demonstrate strong engagement,

network value, and a reinforced market position. [Para 59 @pg. 35 of Impugned

Order]. 164. Appellants' stance with respect to Statista data is that it cannot be used,

as it is not part of DG report and was never meant for purpose of assessment of

dominance, was rather a broad-based international survey with its own

objectives. On the other hand, CCI's Position is that Statista data indicating

strong user preference for WhatsApp is being used to support other findings, if

not the entirety of the analysis additionally, it is similar to the findings in the

survey report filed by WhatsApp itself, and additionally WhatsApp too has

sought to rely on parts of the Statista report. It is therefore germane and

supports all the other data on this point. 165. Appellants' stance is that the download data of Telegram and Signal

shows trend of rapid growth, even if neither entity can presently contend with

Meta in terms of total downloads, DAU, or MAU. On the other hand, CCI's

Position is that WhatsApp itself stated that 'subscribers' or 'registered users'

data is an unreliable metric due to the existence of fake accounts and accounts

set up for fraudulent purposes, as well as users who register with a new phone

number (but do not transfer their account). Therefore, download data of

Telegram and Signal is an unreliable metric. At any rate, downloads are not a

useful metric. A user may download an app but may not be using the same for

various reasons. User engagement metrics such as DAUs and MAUs are better

metrics. In fact, DAU/MAU ratio can also be used this ratio provides insight into

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 101 of 184
 how frequently users engage with the platform within a given month. DAU/MAU

ratio for WhatsApp is around 80% whereas that of ShareChat, Snap and Viber

are 35%, 37%, 40%, respectively. This indicates that WhatsApp users interact

with their platforms more frequently and have higher platform dependency

compared to other applications. 166. Appellant also contends that contrary to claims by the Commission Meta

doesn't enjoy gains from network effects45, and cannot be a relevant factor in

terms of Section 19(4)(h) of the Act. Appellant contends that no great entry

barriers have been created by network effects, since cost of operation is low and

there is no significant capital requirement. CCI's contends that the larger the

user base, the greater the lock-in, and the likelier it is a new user will also

choose the same dominant entity's product which his contacts already use. A

winner takes all scenario is created where there is concentration of users and

this makes it difficult for competitors to attract users. WhatsApp, with its large

user base, also has high switching costs as the user migrating to a competing

app has to also convince his contacts to do the same. This decreases incentive

to switch and therefore, enhance network effects. This self-reinforcing cycle

knows as 'tipping', which lead to exclusion of competitors after WhatsApp

reached a critical size. [Para 76-80 @pgs. 41-43 the Impugned Order]. This also

leads to indirect network effects in multi-sided markets, where growth in user

base also attracts more third party developers, advertisers, content creators,

and crucially businesses, which consequently entrenches dominance. These 45 Network effects: larger the user base, the likelier it is that a new user will also choose the same dominant entity's
product which his contacts already use. A winner takes all where there is concentration of users and it is difficult for
competitors to attract users

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 102 of 184
 indirect network effects allowed for launch of WhatsApp Business etc., further

enhancing its utility and creating greater entry barriers for competitors. [Para

81 @ pg. 43 the Impugned Order] 167. Reliance is placed on order in Jio/Jaadhu by the Appellant, which

observes consumer communication applications market does not exhibit

significant entry barriers. Additionally, reliance was placed by the Appellant on

Telegram's allegedly stating that it has not faced any entry barriers in India.

[Para 82@pg. 44 of the Impugned Order]. CCI's contends that the Observation

made in Jio/Jaadhu is no longer applicable in fast-evolving market, conditions

can change and were anyway made in the distinct context of a forward-looking

combination assessment, not a present-time dominance assessment. Moreover,

Jio/Jaadku is a combination case. The decision under the Combination

Regulations is a forward-looking exercise where potential market outcomes

future market dynamics are predicted to gauge the potential appreciable

adverse effect on competition. Abuse of dominance case assess the prevailing

market conditions to determine if any anticompetitive conduct is occurring.

Thus, the CCI's conclusions from a dated assessment in an another context are

not sufficient to disregard the market realities revealed in an in-depth

investigation. Telegram's submissions were taken out of context, and Telegram

itself has clarified that it is in no position to assess the impact of WhatsApp's

policies on competition. [Para 83-84 and 87-88 @pgs. 44-46 the Impugned

Order] 168. Appellants have also relied on the arguments of multihoming. Appellant

claims that ability to multi-home means there exists no real dependence, and

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 103 of 184
 consumers can have both WhatsApp and Telegram on their phone and switch

between them, and in fact they often do. Appellant also relied on observations

in Vinod Kumar Gupta v. WhatsApp , Fast Track Call Cab Private Limited v. ANI

Technologies [Para 90 @pg. 47 of the Impugned Order]. CCI's contends that

efficacy of multi-homing is greatly reduced by network effects, and fact that

these messaging apps are not interoperable. Activity will therefore remain

concentrated on app with bigger user base, even if there is multi-homing;

consequently, dependence of consumers on that app doesn't really diminish.

There is a high level of dependence of consumers on WhatsApp. Extent of multi-

homing, as indicated by Dr. Pinar then Akman paper, seems incorrect. If, as

stated in the paper, 86% of users multi-home between WhatsApp's and its

competitors, WhatsApp's competitors' MAUs should be much higher (as

opposed to only -86 million users for Telegram compared with WhatsApp 534

million users). Telegram and Signal have much smaller user bases compared to

WhatsApp. [Para 91 @pgs. 47-48 of Impugned Order]. Further, Unlike Vinod

Kumar Gupta 's case, in the present matter, the Commission has the benefit of

a detailed investigation which has sufficiently brought out the switching costs

associated with OTT messaging apps. [Para 147.3 @ pg. 84 of the Impugned

Order] 169. Appellants also contend that the asset size of an enterprise is not

determinative of its position of strength or dominance in technology markets as

the costs of entering and operating in this space are low. Market entry does

require significant capital investment, scale, large numbers of staff, or access to

local distribution. [Para 98 @pg. 50 of the Impugned Order] On the contrary

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 104 of 184
 CCI's claims that in terms of size, resources and economic power of Meta

globally, no competitor even comes close. Jio is most comparable, but even so,

its assets are not comparable to Meta's assets. [Paras 95-97 @pgs. 49-50 of the

Impugned Order]. WhatsApp itself admits that financial resources are important

to innovate and operate in the market, which will then naturally become a factor

when it comes to dominance. [Paras 99-100 @ pg. 50 of the Impugned Order] 170. It was also brought to our notice that Meta operates a multi-sided

ecosystem encompassing platforms like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, and

Messenger, connecting billions of users with advertisers, businesses, and

developers. This ecosystem enables Meta to generate value from network effects,

as users on one side (individuals) enhance the platform's attractiveness for the

other side (advertisers and businesses). These companies also share data

amongst themselves, and such functional integration enables Meta to enjoy

economies of scale. Paras 102-103 @ pg. 51 of the Impugned Order] 171. The arguments of the Commission are summarized hereinafter: M. Dominance in the Market for Online Display Advertising in India: To establish an abuse of dominance, the Commission must first find Meta

dominant in the relevant market. Here, the Commission does not find Meta

dominant in the alleged market for "online display advertising in India". Instead,

the Commission only claims that Meta holds a "leading position" in the market.

But a "leading position" is not the legal standard for an abuse of dominance

analysis under Section 4. The Commission makes this finding based on: (i)

advertisement impressions sold; and (ii) advertising revenue. However, these are

not appropriate metrics to measure a company's position in the market.

Further, the Commission failed to factor in the vibrant nature of competition in

the market and the capabilities of competitors. Indeed, market realities and

third-party submissions confirmed that Meta's rivals are aggressively competing

for larger shares of the dynamic and ever-growing advertising market. 179. Refuting the arguments of the Appellant-Meta, the CCI submits that it did

not find Appellant (Meta) to be in dominant position in the relevant market.

However, Appellant was found to be in a leading position in the on account of

the following reasons: Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 111 of 184
 179.1 Ad impressions: Ad impressions sold serve as an appropriate metric to

assess the market power of players in the online display advertising space, as

they reflect the reach and visibility a platform offers to advertisers. A higher

number of advertisements impressions indicate the platform's ability to capture

more user attention and deliver advertisements effectively, thereby

demonstrating its influence and competitive strength in the market.

179.2 A review of the total number of advertisement impressions sold by Meta

in India in 2016 Meta through Instagram and Facebook shows that it sold

442.86 billion ad impressions. Moreover, Meta sold 759.38 billion ad

impressions in 2017, whereas Amazon, Meta's nearest competitor sold 11 billion

ad impressions. Overall, Meta sold 63 times more ad impressions than Amazon

in 2017, 71 times more in 2018, 67 times more in 2019 and 59 times more in

2020. 179.3 Finally, Meta sold 3013.2 billion ad impression in 2021 and had more

than 95% of ad impressions sold by other advertisers. 179.4 Ad revenue: For competitors who did not provide data related to ad

impressions, the CCI (and DG) considered data relating to advertisement

revenue instead to assess the market position of the Meta's competitors.

179.5 Meta's display advertising revenue was found to be significantly higher

than that of any of its competitors in the online display advertising market. The

advertisement revenue of Meta increased nearly sixfold over 2015 to 2021, from

USD 365.45 million to USD 1887.43 million. None of Meta's competitors have

been able to match this growth in advertisement revenue. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 112 of 184
 179.6 Google is the second largest player in the online display advertisement

market but earns much less than Meta. Google earned USD 264.36 million in

2021 against Meta's USD 1887.43 million. 179.7 The Commission contends that these comprehensive figures in the table

at para 219 @ pg.132 of Impugned Order indicate that Meta not only generates

far higher advertisement revenue compared to its competitors but also serves

an overwhelming number of advertisement impressions in the Indian display

advertisement market. Even the closest competitors, such as Google and

Amazon, have a considerably lower share of both advertisement impressions

served, and revenue generated. Smaller players such as LinkedIn, InMobi, Affle,

and Twitter, hold an even more negligible share, making it clear that Meta's

scale and reach are unmatched in this segment. 180. Thus in above backdrop we find that Commission has failed to determine

that Meta is dominant in the market for "Online Display Advertising in India".

N. Violation of Section 4(2)(a)(i) || Abuse of Dominance by Appellants -
 issue of imposition of unfair conditions on users 181. Appellant-Meta contends that the Commission has incorrectly found an

abuse of dominance. Firstly, Appellant-Meta claims that the impugned order

ignores that Meta and WhatsApp are separate legal entities when finding a

violation under Section 4(2)(a)(i). The Impugned Order improperly imposes

liability on Meta for WhatsApp's alleged conduct, disregarding that (i) Meta and

WhatsApp are separate legal entities; (ii) WhatsApp, not Meta, offers and

operates the WhatsApp service; and (iii) the subject of the investigation is the

2021 Update, which relates to the WhatsApp service. Courts have consistently

Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 113 of 184
 recognised this entity distinction, finding that Meta is not the relevant entity for

the relevant service. The Commission had no basis to ignore this entity

distinction and impute WhatsApp's alleged conduct to Meta. 182. To establish the abuse of dominance by Appellants-Meta, the Commission

claims that there has been violation of Section 4(2)(a)(i) with the imposition of

unfair condition on users. The Commission claims Section 4(2)(a)(i) 38 of the Act

has two ingredients one, the element of imposition; and two, an unfair condition.

Both elements have been comprehensively established by the CCI and are being

noted herein. 183. The Commission claims that 2021 Policy was mandatorily imposed on

users ('take it or leave it') and the text of the policy, manner of rollout and the

response of the users make it clear that there was an imposition of the 2021

Policy by the Appellants and the same was seen as such by the users at large. 184. The Commission relies on the chronology of events to establish that there

was an imposition of 2021 policy by the appellants. We recapitulate the

chronology to understand the argument, which is captured in next few paras: a. On 05.01.2021, WhatsApp users started to receive
 notifications from WhatsApp informing them about the
 changes in the terms and conditions of WhatsApp's terms of
 service and privacy policy. [Para 137.1 @ pg. 76 of Impugned
 Order]

 b. The said notification stated that users "need to accept these
 updates to continue using WhatsApp" and set out the cut off
 dated as 08.02.2021 for mandatorily accepting the new
 terms in their entirety, including terms regarding sharing of

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 114 of 184
 their data across all the information categories with other
 Facebook Companies. The 2021 Policy was to be in effect
 from 08.02.2021 for existing users, and applicable to new
 users upon mandatory acceptance. [Paras 3 and 137.2 @pgs.
 3 and 76 of Impugned Order). c. This notification and the mandatory acceptance of the
 changes brought about by the 2021 Policy were in stark
 contrast to the earlier WhatsApp Policies of 2016
 (25.08.2016), wherein WhatsApp users had the option of
 opting out of sharing their WhatsApp data with Facebook.
 [Paras 2-3 @pgs. 2-3 of Impugned Order; Para 7.34 @ pgs. 129-130 of DG Report]
 Note - Appellants have argued that the 2016 policy was the
 same as the 2021 Policy. This aspect will be dealt with in the
 next section on unfair conditions. d. Thereafter, on 15.01.2025 WhatsApp deferred the last date
 for accepting the 2021 Policy from 08.02.2021 to 15.05.2021,
 while repeating the above language of necessity of acceptance
 to continue usage of the WhatsApp services. The same was
 conveyed to users by way of a second in-app user notification
 dt. 19.02.2021. [Paras 137.4 and 137.5 @ pg. 77 of Impugned
 Order]

 e. This decision to extend the last date was not a suo moto
 decision, but one that arose out of the intervention of the
 relevant authorities in this regard, such as CCI. [Para 147.2
 @pg. 84 of Impugned Order)

 f. Finally, on 07.05.2021, WhatsApp released an official
 statement on its website confirming that no account will be
 deleted functionality because of the 2021 Update. Few
 extracts from this statement are as follows: Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 115 of 184
 "...No one will have their accounts deleted or lose
 functionality of WhatsApp because of this update. The
 majority of users who have seen the update have already
 accepted. ... WhatsApp won't delete your account if you don't accept
 the update...." [Para 137.6 @pgs. 77-78 of Impugned
 Order]

 g. However, even after the aforementioned press statement,
 screenshots of in-app notification reproduced in the
 impugned order show that no such information regarding
 extension was being provided to users, and users were in fact
 being prompted to accept the privacy policy. [Para 137.7 @
 pgs. 77 of Impugned Order]

 h. As a result, for a period of over 4 months between 05.01.2021
 and 07.05.2021, WhatsApp users were under the impression
 that accepting the 2021 Policy was mandatory to continue
 using WhatsApp, forcing users to accept the policy to
 maintain access to WhatsApp services. [Paras 145-146 @pg.
 83 of Impugned Order)

 i. By 07.05.2021, a majority of WhatsApp users (264,500,000
 users) had accepted the changed terms and conditions of the
 2021 Policy out of fear of not being able to avail WhatsApp's
 services after 15.05.2021. 264,500,000 WhatsApp users
 represent 61% of Daily Active Users (DAUs). [Paras 144-145
 @ pgs. 82-83 of Impugned Order]

 j. On 22.05.2021, WhatsApp sent a letter to MeITY that it
 would not limit functionality of WhatsApp till passage of the
 DPDP Bill. A similar statement was made in affidavit dated
 11.05.2021 filed in Dr. Seema Singh v. Union of India [Para

Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 116 of 184
 31 @ pg. 35 of Annexure to DG Report; Paras 144-145 @pgs. 82-83 of Impugned Order]

 k. It will be seen that the MelTY letter is contingent and
 transitory, leaves open the possibility of reinstatement of the
 requirement of the mandatory acceptance after passage of
 PDP bill. Thus, the final and present position of WhatsApp is
 as follows: [Screenshots available in para 137.2, 137.5 and 137.7] 186. The Commission also claims that while the language makes it clear that

acceptance of the privacy policy remains mandatory for new users, it should not

be lost sight that this condition has also been implemented for users who had

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 117 of 184
 exercised the opt-out option while accepting the 2016 privacy policy due to

following explanations: Data is the user-side consideration for WhatsApp services and therefore a non-

exhaustive list of data points means that users are not aware of the actual cost

of such services. [Paras 166-167@ pgs. 98-99 of Impugned Order). 198. The Appellants have further placed reliance on this Tribunal's Judgment

in Shri 12Vinod Kumar Gupta vs. CCI & Ors. CA(AT) No. 13 of 2017 and the

underlying CCI order Shri Vinod Kumar Gupta, Chartered Accountant and

WhatsApp Inc. Case No. 99 for 2016 to argue that the 2016 Policy had been

effectively upheld. Since in the submission of Appellants, there is no difference

between the policies of 2016 and 2021, it is claimed that the 2021 Policy cannot

now be faulted. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 124 of 184 199. The Appellant's reasoning that the 2016 Policy had been effectively upheld

is flawed as claimed by the Commission for the following reasons: d. Even after the recent introduction of a Section 26(2A)46 in the Competition Act , the Hon'ble High Court Judicature at
 Bombay in Asian Paints Limited vs. Competition Commission
 of India & Anr. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 2887 of 2025 (Paras
 27 and 32-34), has reiterated the non-application of res
 judicata in the following terms: (emphasis supplied)

 e. The Commission has argued that the order of the CCI relied
 on by the Appellants as noted above is of 201712 and in this
 fast-changing digital market, a great deal would have
 changed by 2021. Hence, it would be inappropriate to bind
 the CCI for all times to come in the matter of investigating
 the Appellants' abusive conduct, based solely on 2017 order.

 f. The Commission has also argued that curiously, the
 importance of respecting user choice by providing an opt-out
 clause is recognized by WA itself in Europe but not in India,
 since even today European users are given the option of
 opting-out of data sharing while accepting the privacy policy
 in existence from 2021. [Para 135.4 @ pg. 73 of Impugned
 Order, Para 7.38 @ pg. 138 of DG Report)

 g. The Commission has also brought to our notice that a key
 consideration for not ordering investigation by the DG
 against the 2016 Policy in Vinod Kumar Gupta12 (supra) was
 the provision of opt-out provided to users in that policy by
 WhatsApp. Such an opt-out mechanism was not provided to
 users in the 2021 Policy. 200. WhatsApp further submitted that all the data it collects is essential to

provide the WhatsApp service. Therefore, the Commission claims that it went

into substantially more detail on the 2021 Policy about the nature and purposes

for which data was being shared with other Meta companies. 201. The Commission has also brought to our notice that the repercussions of

this policy, and its anti-competitive nature with respect to data sharing, have

been set out in detail in the impugned order and are summarised below: Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 127 of 184
 a. Privacy is a non-price factor in competition assessment: Therefore, the update continues to influence user behaviour
 and data sharing practices on the platform. [Para 182.4@pg.
 107 of Impugned Order] 202. Appellants have sought to argue that the extent and scope of collection of

user data is in line with the industry standard. The Commission. On the other

hand, has argued this contention is also in the teeth of established law. In Belaire Owners' Association v. DLF Limited, HUDA & Ors. Case No. 19 of 43 2010 (Para 12.20), the CCI held that the same sort of conduct may be abusive

for a dominant firm, but not be abusive for a non-dominant firm. The defence

that the conduct, for which the dominant entity is under scrutiny, is in

conformity with the industry practice and is being followed by other entities was

rejected by the Commission holding that "in terms of the section 4, the

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 130 of 184
 responsibility of the dominant player has been made more onerous and if such

practices are also adopted by a non-dominant player it may not fall within the

ambit of section 4". 203. The above view taken by the Commission was upheld by the Hon'ble

Competition Appellate Tribunal ("COMPAT") in 47DLF Limited & Ors. v

Competition Commission of India & Ors. 2014 SCC OnLine Comp AT 17

(Para 124). In its decision dt. 19.05.2014, the Hon'ble COMPAT in Para 124 had

made the following observations: 204. In its Rejoinder submissions on expanded data obligations for users

Appellant claims that the 2021 Update does not expand data obligations for

users. It also claims that the 2001 Update did not expand WhatsApp's ability to

collect and share data with Meta. The 2016 Update already provided for this

sharing. WhatsApp has also affirmed this in its affidavit before the Supreme

Court in 48Karmanya Sangh Sareen v Union of India & Ors.. SLP(C) No. 804 47 DLF Limited & Ors. v Competition Commission of India & Ors. 2014 SCC OnLine Comp AT 17: Competition Appellate
Tribunal ("COMPAT") in Para 124 held that as a dominant player in the market, it has a special duty to be within the
four corners of law 48 Karmanya Sangh Sareen v Union of India & Ors.. SLP(C) No. 804 of 2017

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 131 of 184
 of 2017 (Refer Paras 58, 72 and 86). It is also claimed that the same categories

of data mentioned in the 'usage and log information of the 2021 Update were

present in the 2016 Update. The Commission wrongly inferred the additional

textual detail in the 2021 Update to mean additional data collection rights. The

purpose of the 2021 Update was merely to re-organize and provide users with

(1) additional information about how WhatsApp collects, uses, and shares data,

(il) additional information about how optional business messaging features work

when they become available to users, and (iii) greater detail about the categories

of information that may be shared with other Meta companies and more up-to-

date examples of how WhatsApp partners with Meta to offer integrations across

Meta's family of apps and products 205. In the Rejoinder, Appellant claims that there is no evidence that

WhatsApp collected or shared user data that was not necessary to provide

services/features that it offers. Data collected is not disproportionate or

arbitrary as claimed by the Appellants: The user data which may be collected

by WhatsApp under the 2021 Update and shared with Meta is neither

disproportionate nor arbitrary. WhatsApp offers numerous useful features for

both users and businesses. The collection of certain categories of user data is

necessary to provide these specific functionalities. For example, the collection

of device and connection information is necessary for account management

communication, customer support, and product performance and analysis.

About information enables account management. The collection of usage and

log information is essential to prevent misuse of the WhatsApp service.

Appellant-WhatsApp claims that User data shared from WhatsApp to Meta is

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 132 of 184
 limited to what is necessary to provide services: The specific user data that

WhatsApp may share with Meta depends on the development and availability of

new products and features and how users decide to use them. WhatsApp limits

the information it may share with other Meta companies in important ways.

WhatsApp does not share certain information with other Meta companies,

including (1) personal messages with friends, family and coworkers, including

users shared location, which are end-to-end encrypted, (ii) logs of who everyone

is messaging or calling; and (iii) users' contacts. 206. Appellant also contends that the specific types of user data that

WhatsApp may share with other Meta companies are described in its privacy

policy and publicly available Help Centre Articles. In fact, sharing user data

within a family of companies is commonplace in the industry. In any event, the

expansion of a "privacy policy" is a matter of privacy and data protection law

and thus beyond the Commission's remit. 207. Appellant also contends the 2021 Update is not vague or ambiguous. The

Commission has contended that the 2021 Update is unfair because the 2021

Update is "vague" and "ambiguous". This submission is unsustainable for

several reasons. First, the exercise to ascertain whether a privacy policy is

vague, broad, or ambiguous must be carried out under the privacy and data

protection framework (12Vinod Kumar Gupta). Second, the Impugned Order

states that both the 2016 and 2021 Updates adopted a "similar approach" when

describing the data collected and shared. If the alleged vagueness of the 2016

Update did not form the basis of a competition violation in Vinod Kumar Gupta,

that vagueness in the 2021 Update which is more detailed than the 2016 Update

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 133 of 184
 cannot be a basis for such a violation. Third, the Commission cites WhatsApp's

terms and policies in the European Region being more transparent and

concludes that the "differences demonstrate the scope and feasibility for

providing greater transparency and choice for users in India". However, it does

not explain how the differences between WhatsApp's policies in Europe (drafted

to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)) and its policies

in India and elsewhere amount to an abuse of dominance under Indian

competition law. Europe follows a distinct data protection framework that

requires a different level of disclosure. This cannot serve as the benchmark for

what is "sufficient or fair under Indian competition law. The fact that the 2021

Update may be more detailed in Europe does not make its implementation in

India abusive. Fourth, the Commission ignores that terms like "includes", "such

as", and "for example are routinely used in privacy policies by several

enterprises across jurisdictions. Notably, in jurisdictions with some of the

largest WhatsApp user bases - including the United States, Indonesia, Mexico,

Russia, and the Philippines data protection authorities did not take issue with

WhatsApp's 2021 privacy policy update, allowing the new terms to be rolled out

in those regions. Finally, the 2021 Update clearly sets forth. (i) the types of data

WhatsApp collects: (ii) the types of information that WhatsApp may receive from

third-parties; (iii) the types of data that WhatsApp may share with Meta; and (iv) how WhatsApp and Meta may use that information. Further, the 2021

Update does not simply list broad categories of information. Instead, it provides

examples so that users can easily understand what information WhatsApp

collects, receives, and shares, and how that information may be used. Indeed,

the very purpose of the 2021 Update was to provide greater transparency. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 134 of 184
 Further, even the supposedly vague terms were cherry-picked by the

Commission in the Impugned Order. 208. In its Rejoinder submissions on Abuse of Dominance the Appellants

contends that mere roll-out of the 2021 Update on take-it-or-leave-it basis does

not constitute a per-se violation of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Competition Act. A

"rollout" of revised terms, by itself, cannot be abusive conduct. Every digital

service periodically updates its terms globally. Treating the act of rollout as

abusive would effectively make routine contractual updates illegal, which is not

contemplated under the Competition Act . 209. Appellant also contends this Tribunal has also recognized that standard

acceptance-for-use contracts by WhatsApp was a legitimate business practice

(Refer. Paras 9(1) and 9(w), Vinod Kumar Gupta12). The Commission's

arguments are in the teeth of this binding precedent. Further this approach

conflates imposition and unfairness. If a dominant enterprise is prohibited from

issuing standard acceptance-for-use contracts simply because they are

dominant, this would effectively be punishing dominance with no evidence of

either unfair or discriminatory conduct under Section 4(2) of the Competition

Act or anti-competitive effect. Appellant also contends that WhatsApp has

advanced detailed submissions on the process it followed to issue the 2021

Update, and the several extensions it provided to users to accept the 2021

Update and the Commission does not respond to these submissions, except to

say that the mere fact that many users had accepted the 2021 Update by 7 May

demonstrates abuse and effect. This is claimed to be flawed, for several reasons.

Firstly, the Commission's submission is entirely without evidence. The

Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 135 of 184
 Commission admits that no users were contacted to determine their rationale

for accepting the terms before 7 May 2021. Secondly, the evidence that exists is

to the contrary. Only 241,917 132 users that existed as of 4 January 2021 (or

40-45% (43.3%)) accepted the 2021 Update. between 4 January 2021 and 7 May

2021. Almost as many users (40-45% (41%)) accepted the 2021 Update after 7

May 2021 (when there was admittedly no "take it or leave it condition), while

approximately 15% had still not accepted the 2021 Update as of 28 March 2023.

This belies any argument that the 2021 Update was "imposed" or that users

were 'coerced to accept the 2021 Update due to any "urgency" or that users were

coerced to accept the 2021 Update due to any "urgency". 210. Appellant claims that if nearly 60% of users did not feel compelled to

accept the 2021 Update, the Commission cannot assume compulsion for the

40-46% (43.3%) who chose to accept the 2021 Update before 7 May 2021. 211. For better appreciation, we reproduce Section 4(2)(a)(i) - the section

relating to abuse of dominance: Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, the unfair or
 discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods or service
 referred to in sub-clause (i) and unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale of
 goods (including predatory price) or service referred to in
 sub-clause (ii) shall not include such 3[condition or price] which may be
 adopted to meet the competition; or" Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 136 of 184 212. The above section clearly brings out that "there shall be an abuse of

dominant position under sub-section (1), if an enterprise or a group, -(a) directly

or indirectly, imposes unfair or discriminatory (i) condition in purchase or sale of

goods or service." We note that Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Competition Act prohibits

a dominant enterprise from imposing unfair conditions or prices. We note that

the 2021 WhatsApp policy presents a case of both imposition and unfairness.

We find that the 2021 WhatsApp policy is impositional as users are compelled

to accept expanded data-sharing terms with Meta without any opt-out option,

leaving them no genuine choice but to consent or stop using the service. It is

unfair because it arbitrarily alters prior user expectations regarding data use,

undermines user autonomy, and introduces one-sided terms. The mandatory

data sharing reduces user privacy -- a key non-price parameter of competition -- thereby harming consumer welfare. It also strengthens Meta's market power

by giving it access to vast user data, disadvantaging competitors in the digital

advertising market. We also observe that WhatsApp's 2021 policy update

imposed "take-it-or-leave-it" terms requiring users to accept all data-sharing

provisions to continue using the service. Unlike earlier policies (2016, 2019), it

removed the 30-day opt-out option, leaving users with no real choice. The policy

mandates sharing user data with other Meta companies and offers greater

privacy rights to EU users than to Indian users, indicating discriminatory

treatment. We also observe that due to user dependence on WhatsApp and

limited ability to negotiate or understand the complex terms, users effectively

had no alternative but to accept the update. Although Meta has suspended full

implementation of the 2021 policy pending India's data protection law, users

must still accept it to interact with business accounts. Therefore, basis the

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 137 of 184
 materials placed on record and submissions of both sides, we are inclined to

agree with the arguments of the Commission that WhatsApp's 2021 Privacy

Policy amounted to an abuse of dominance under Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the

Competition Act because it imposed unfair and coercive conditions on users.

We also find force in the arguments that WhatsApp compelled users to accept

the policy on a "take-it-or-leave-it" basis by threatening loss of service access,

thereby vitiating free consent. We also find that unlike the 2016 policy which

allowed users to opt out of data sharing, the 2021 update mandated extensive

and vague data collection and sharing with Meta and its subsidiaries for non-

WhatsApp purposes, going beyond what was necessary for the app's

functioning. We also note that WhatsApp's dominant position, network effects,

and lack of interoperability left users with no real alternatives, making their

acceptance involuntary. This degradation of privacy amounted to a reduction in

service quality, harming both users and competition. Hence, the 2021 policy's

mandatory and expansive data-sharing terms were found to be unfair

conditions imposed by a dominant enterprise and we cannot find any infirmity

in the findings of the Commission. 213. We are therefore inclined to agree with the conclusions of CCI regarding

the 2021 Policy that data privacy is a non-price factor in competition analysis

as reduced privacy degrades service quality and creates competitive

disadvantage for competitors. User consent is not free or voluntary due to lack

of choice - a "take-it-or-leave-it" imposition harms both consumers and

competition. Despite assurances to the contrary, more than 84% of users had

accepted the update by 28.03.2024 due to frequent prompts for acceptance. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 138 of 184
 Purpose of expanded collection and sharing of user data with other Meta

companies is not limited to improving WhatsApp's internal services /

functioning, goes beyond what is necessary and gives Appellants insights which

smaller competitors cannot replicate. Users expect data not to be shared

unnecessarily for not WhatsApp purposes and the 2021 Policy breaches that

reasonable expectation. WhatsApp has retained flexibility to unilaterally expand

data sharing at its discretion, creating the potential for exploitation without user

recourse Resultantly, collection and sharing of user data for non-WhatsApp

purposes fulfil the second element of Section 4(2)(a)(i), i.e. imposition of unfair

terms. O. Violation of Sections 4(2)(c) and 4(2)(e) ||Denial of market access and
 leveraging dominance in Market 1 to enter and protect position in
 Market 2 214. Before proceeding further, we reproduce the section relating to abuse of

dominance for sake of convenience. 215. Appellant-Meta also claims that the impugned order fails to correctly

establish denial of market access under Section 4(2)(c) of the Competition Act.

To establish denial of market access under Section 4(2)(c), the Commission

must establish that (i) Meta is dominant in the relevant market; (ii) Meta is

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 139 of 184
 engaged in particular conduct; and (iii) that conduct resulted in denial of market

access. None of these conditions have been satisfied here. First, the Commission

did not find Meta dominant in the market where the denial of access allegedly

occurred - i.e., the alleged market for online display advertising in India.

Instead, the Commission claims that a Section 4(2)(c) violation can be based on

dominance in another market. [Paragraph 233, Impugned Order]. That is

incorrect as a matter of law. It would render Section 4(2)(e) meaningless, as

Section 4(2)(e) addresses the use of dominance in one market to protect the

enterprise in another market. Second, the Commission mischaracterised Meta's

alleged conduct that resulted in the denial of access. It claimed that Meta

integrated extensive WhatsApp user data into Meta's advertising ecosystem

[Paragraph 223.6, Impugned Order]. However, this is incorrect for several

reasons, including that (i) this conclusion is based on WhatsApp's potential user

data sharing with Meta, but Section 4(2)(c) requires actual conduct; and (ii) the

Commission misrepresents WhatsApp's user data sharing with Meta for the

WhatsApp Business App, WhatsApp Business API, and Cloud API. Third, the

Commission failed to correctly establish that there was an actual denial of

market access as it failed to conduct an effects analysis identifying actual anti-

competitive effects. Indeed, it ought to have but fails to identify a single company

that was denied access to the market due to Meta's conduct. There is also

extensive evidence that (i) competitors and advertisers continue to have access

to very broad sets of data; (ii) data is non-rivalrous, non-exclusive, and not

scarce; (iii) the market has seen explosive entry and sustained growth of players;

and (iv) Meta continues to face fierce competition in the market. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 140 of 184 216. Furthermore, Appellant-Meta also claims that the impugned order fails to

correctly establish a violation of leveraging under Section 4(2)(e) of the

Competition Act. To establish a violation for leveraging under Section 4(2)(e),

the Commission must establish that (i) there are two distinct relevant markets; (ii) Meta is dominant in one relevant market; (iii) Meta used its dominance in

the first market; and (iv) the use of dominance protected Meta's position in the

second market. The Commission fails to satisfy these conditions. First, the

Commission claims that Meta used its alleged dominance in the first market,

i.e., for OTT messaging apps through smartphones in India, to protect its

position in the second market, i.e., online display advertising in India. However,

Meta is not dominant in the first market. The Commission impermissibly

imputes WhatsApp's alleged dominance in this market to Meta. Second, while

the Commission does not clearly identify Meta's use of its alleged dominance in

the first market, it seems to suggest that Meta did so by integrating extensive

WhatsApp user data with Meta for advertising purposes. [Paragraph 223.6,

Impugned Order, enclosed at Annexure-1] However, this assertion is without

merit, as (i) the Commission improperly imputes WhatsApp's alleged conduct to

Meta, as Meta does not provide the WhatsApp service; and (ii) Meta does not

integrate extensive user data from WhatsApp users for advertising purposes.

Third, the Commission cannot demonstrate that the alleged conduct has

resulted in any actual anti-competitive effects in the second market, i.e., the

alleged online display advertising market, for the same reasons it failed to

correctly establish a violation for denial of market access. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 141 of 184 217. Meta has claimed that it only shares user data for ad purposes on two

accounts: WhatsApp purposes, including digital advertisements on Meta's various

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 143 of 184
 platforms. The Commission has thus argued that the Appellants (Meta through

WhatsApp) have denied market access and leveraged dominance in Market 149

to enter and protect position in Market 250 and thus have violated Sections

4(2)(c) and 4(2)(e). The Commission has also emphasized that CCI conducted an

extensive qualitative effects analysis of the competitive harm caused to

advertisers due to the sharing of WhatsApp user data by Appellants with various

Meta companies/platforms. In this regard, statements of several Meta's

competitors and digital advertising companies have also been considered. These

have been noted by us in detail in herein earlier in effects analysis. 221. The Commission has also brought to our notice Appellants' data collection

practices qua WhatsApp business users. It brings to our notice that for an

ordinary user to interact with a business user over WhatsApp, it remains

mandatory to consent to the 2021 Policy. Therefore, CCI has also examined the

framework nature of data collection from WhatsApp's small and large business

users. Small businesses who generally use the WhatsApp Business App are

contractually obligated to abide by the WhatsApp Business Terms of Service

(and all policies, terms and guidelines incorporated by reference therein) while

larger businesses using WhatsApp Business API are contractually obligated to

abide by the Facebook Terms for WhatsApp Business (and all policies, terms

and guidelines incorporated by reference therein). Business users are not

permitted to opt-out of the mandatory data sharing envisaged under either 49 Market 1: Market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones in India; 50 Market 2: Market for Online Display Advertising in India

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 144 of 184
 Terms of Service. Broadly stated, both categories of business users are required

under their respective terms of service to share data in the following manner: sized businesses, Meta can capitalize on this user base and the associated

business interactions. By integrating WhatsApp's user data with its advanced

advertising technology, Meta can build even more detailed audience profiles,

enhancing its ability to deliver highly targeted ads. This capability not only

strengthens Meta's advertising revenue potential but also enables it to offer

tailored solutions for businesses of all sizes, making it a versatile and dominant

player in the advertising ecosystem. 223.5 The extensive user data allows Meta to offer superior advertising

solutions, which attract more advertisers and drive more revenue, which in turn

enables Meta to invest further in improving its platforms and expanding its data

capabilities, creating a self-reinforcing cycle that consolidates its market

power.6. The 2021 policy update has enabled Meta to target a broader range of

audiences and gain expanded access to user parameters allowing Meta to

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 147 of 184
 provide more precise and accurate targeting to advertisers, giving it a distinct

competitive advantage in the market. The ability to offer better-defined target

audiences enables Meta to capture a larger market share and attract more

advertisers seeking to optimize their advertising spend.

223.6 The increase in numbers of such advertisers from 376,732 in 2015 to

2,207,459 in 2021 evidence the attractiveness of Meta ecosystem for the

advertisers. The increase in number of advertisers also indicates strong indirect

network effects with an increasing number of users on the WhatsApp platform.

223.7 Advertisers prefer platforms that can display ads to users who are most

likely to be interested and willing to engage with the content and the product

being advertised. The effectiveness of targeted advertising depends on the scope,

size, and diversity of the data set held by the media provider. Meta has gained

an advantage by collecting extensive first-party data directly from its users

which is shared across services, as well as additional third-party data through

various tools, giving it a comprehensive data set. This vast data pool is a key

factor behind Meta's unassailable position in the online display advertising

market and acts as a barrier to entry for new competitors, as they are unable to

match the scale of data Meta possesses. [Paras 223.1-223.10 @ pgs. of 133-137

Impugned Order) 224. The number of Advertisement Impressions sold is an important criterion

to assess the position of players in the market. Extracts of para 216 of the

impugned order are instructive for knowing this scenario: 225. Furthermore, the advertisement revenue of Meta and its competitors is

highlighted as follows - extracts of para 219 of the impugned order: ** Data for the financial year 2021-2022 226. Basis data collected by the Commission and as noted above we find that

the Commission has clearly brought out that Meta leads in advertisement

impressions and advertisement revenue in India in online display advertisement

market and is way ahead of others: 227. We note that a detailed analysis has been provided by the Commission as

to how Meta without being dominant through its conduct has resulted in a

situation of dominance and denial in market 2, which is extracted as below: 228. As noted in the impugned order we find that the Commission gets full

support of the above judgement [Competition Commission of India Vs. M/s

Fast Way Transmission Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. (Civil Appeal No.7215 of 2014) in

judgement dated 24.01.2018] while making out a case for denial of market

access in the market of online display advertising wherein the Hon'ble Court

stated that the term denial of market access "in any manner" is of wide import

and must be given its natural meaning. Furthermore, the Commission argues

that there is no statutory or technical requirement that an enterprise must hold

dominance in the market where the denial of market access is alleged and we

find that as per Section 4(2)(c) "there shall be an abuse of dominant position

under sub-section (1), if an enterprise or a group,-- (c) indulges in practice or

practices resulting in denial of market access in any manner." The above

Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 152 of 184
 provision is very significant as Meta is a parent company and WhatsApp and

Meta belong to the same group. Moreover, there is no provision that an

enterprise or group has to be dominant for establishing denial of market access

as per Section 4(2)(c) of the Act. Therefore, we find that the conclusions of the

Commission to be not having infirmity regarding denial of market access by the

conduct of the Meta group. 229. Bases above submissions of both sides and after perusal of materials

placed on record, we find that Appellants' ability to gather and utilise extensive

user data through WhatsApp for digital advertising enables advertisers to create

detailed profiles of potential customers and deliver targeted advertisements that

align with users' preferences and interests. With access to detailed user profiles

and data from multiple platforms, the Appellant (Meta) can promise advertisers

the best returns in terms of clicks, engagement, and conversions per dollar

spent. This advantage makes Meta the preferred advertising partner for sellers,

thereby leveraging its dominance in the OTT app market to reinforce its leading

position in digital advertising market. We don't find any infirmity in the above

analysis for advertising and marketing strategy and we find it be convincing. 230. We also need to note that Meta and WhatsApp are separate legal entities.

It is WhatsApp and not Meta which offers and operates the WhatsApp service

and the subject of the investigation is the WhatsApp 2021 Policy, which relates

to the WhatsApp service. The allegations relate to sharing of user data by

WhatsApp with Meta. We also note that Meta is not dominant in the online

display advertisement market even though it a leading player. Therefore, there

cannot be a question of abuse of its dominance in this market. But the above- Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 153 of 184
 mentioned conduct has resulted in a situation of denial of market access and

which is covered under Section4(2)(c). We also need to note that even though

Meta and WhatsApp are separate legal entities, yet due 100% control of Meta

over WhatsApp. WhatsApp acts more like an agent of the parent company. All

policies and activities of the WhatsApp are being controlled by common

executives. We also need to note that WhatsApp doesn't have separate financial

statements. These are special circumstances in this case requiring attention to

decide the case. 231. The Appellants-WhatsApp has claimed that the Commission made several

factually incorrect submissions before this Tribunal during oral arguments,

without filing any affidavit in support of that or without filing any rejoinder. In

any case we have taken note of the factual inaccuracies pointed out to us while

referring to the written submissions from both sides. P. Conclusions on Abuse 232. Bases above submissions and materials placed on record, we find that

WhatsApp's 2021 policy constituted abuse of dominance by WhatsApp under Section 4 of the Competition Act as briefly described below: It needs to be noted that section 4(2)(c) gets attracted herein due to

special circumstances existing in this case. We have a case in which

Commission has concluded that "Meta has engaged in leveraging its

dominant position in the OTT messaging apps through smartphones to protect

its position in the online display advertising market and the same is in

contravention of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act". We note that Section 4(2)(e)

cannot be applied on Meta for only legal impediment that Meta and

WhatsApp are two distinct legal entities. We need to note the special

circumstances existing in this case that even though WhatsApp is a

separate legal entity, yet it is fully controlled by Meta for the reasons

that it does not have separate financial statements and also it has

common executives with Meta and the parent company is in 100%

control of WhatsApp. Even though we are not able to establish the

Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 155 of 184
 leveraging by Meta from market 1 to denial in market 2, we find that

because of special circumstances existing in this case, denial of market

2 is happening irrespective of our conclusion that leveraging is

happening or not. We also need to note that Section 4(2)(c) can be

attracted independently of Section 4(2)(e). We note that Section 4(2)(c)

provides that "there shall be an abuse of dominant position if an

enterprise or a group indulges in practice or practices resulting in denial

of market access in any manner". 232.3 Section 4(2)(e): Leveraging dominance in one market (OTT

messaging) to protect or extend dominance in another (online display

advertising) - We find that WhatsApp's Policy 2021, facilitated Meta's

access to WhatsApp user data for advertising purposes. Meta is not

dominant but just leading in Market 2 and way ahead both in terms of

advertisement impressions and revenue. Even though, as noted by us

earlier, that it cannot be concluded that it has leveraged its dominance

in one market (OTT messaging) to protect or extend dominance in

another (online display advertising) which was mainly for the reason

that WhatsApp and Meta are distinct legal entities. But due to peculiar

eco-system of digital market and also Meta exercising 100% control on

WhatsApp and also the, conduct of Meta group has resulted in a

situation of denial of market access and which is covered under

Section4(2)(c). It may not be violative of section4(2)(e) But we bring the

special circumstances existing in the case on record which has also

been noted in detail in the impugned order. Even though the impugned

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 156 of 184
 order does not recognize Meta and WhatsApp as separate legal entities

due to reasons which we have discussed earlier, however, we reject this

argument of the Commission. Even then we find denial of market 2 is

happening that too is through the conduct of Meta and is thus violative

of section4(2)(c). 233. In the above background we conclude that there is a violation Sections

4(2)(a)(i), 4(2)(c) but not Section 4(2)(e) and by WhatsApp as an enterprise and

Meta as a group. Q. Remedies by the CCI 234. In this Section we delve into remedial directions issued by the

Commission with respect to abusive conduct of the Appellants contravening

various sections of the Competition Act . 235. Before proceeding further, it will be instructive to note the remedies

issued by the Commission: 247.2.4 All future policy updates shall also comply with these
 requirements. 247.3 The OPs are directed to make necessary changes to comply with above
 directions within a period of 3 (three) months from the date of receipt of this
 order and submit a compliance report to the Commission in this regard." 236. We note that the Commission has relied on Sections 27 and 28 of the

Competition Act to argue that neither the Digital Personal Data Protection Act 2023 (DPDP Act ) nor any other legislation in India confers powers equivalent to

those granted to the Commission. But the Appellant's once again question that

it still does not allow the Commission to adjudicate privacy and data protection

matters and also raise the concern that the Commission cannot make

determinations in domains governed by other specialised laws like consumer

protection, telecom, or financial regulation due to its wide powers. 237. Apart from grounds raised in his Appeal, the Appellants have in his

rejoinder questioned the necessity and proportionality of the remedies imposed

by the Commission. They contend that the remedies set out under para 247.2,

Impugned Order (as noted above), deal with optionality and transparency, which

squarely fall within the realm of privacy and data protection law. They claim

that as an example five-year ban on sharing user data with Meta for advertising

purposes, (Remedy 1) [Para 247.1 above]. The Commission itself admitted that

this remedy is contestable. Appellant relies on Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 158 of 184
 Election Commr. [Para 8, (1978) 1 SCC 405], that any direction of the

Commission must take the form of a reasoned and speaking order. In the

absence of cogent justification, the prescription of a five-year ban is manifestly

arbitrary, disproportionate, and unsustainable. The only justification offered

during oral arguments was a vague, unsupported assertion that such a period

would revive competitive conditions. This statement, devoid of any evidentiary

or analytical foundation, cannot meet the threshold required by law. The

Commission does not explain further how it arrived at five years, why it would

take that long to rectify any perceived harm, and why it cannot be done in a

shorter timeline. 238. With respect to the remedy of the requirement to provide additional details

on user data sharing with Meta in the WhatsApp privacy policy:(Remedy 2) [Para

247.2.1], Appellant claims that this prescribes the manner in which WhatsApp

must provide information about the data it collects and shares. Such a direction

squarely falls within the ambit of privacy and data protection issues. 239. On the remedies of prohibition on making the WhatsApp service

conditional on user consent for data sharing for purposes other than providing

the WhatsApp service (Remedy 3) [Refer: Para 247.2.2] and the requirement to

create a prominent opt-out of, and option to review and modify user data

sharing by WhatsApp with Meta for purposes other than providing the

WhatsApp service (Remedy 4) and (Para 247.2.3), the Appellant claims that

these remedies direct that WhatsApp may collect/share data only relevant to

providing the WhatsApp service. This restricts WhatsApp's ability and freedom

to choose its business model, adversely impacting its ability to offer new and

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 159 of 184
 innovative products to their users in India. Such directions additionally also fall

squarely within the realm of privacy and data protection law. 240. With respect to the requirement on Meta and WhatsApp to comply with

the Remedies forever (Remedy 5) [Para 247.2.4. Impugned Order], the

Commission has failed to explain how it can be required to comply with this

remedy forever, even if it is not dominant. Section 4 does not apply if an entity

does not enjoy a dominant position, which makes this remedy wholly

disproportionate. Appellant claims that the Commission has itself argued that

a finding of dominance or abuse is not one in perpetuity and may be revisited

in future, while making arguments about the Vinod Kumar Gupta case. Yet, it

has simultaneously imposed remedies on WhatsApp that are perpetual in

nature. This internal inconsistency renders the remedy wholly disproportionate.

Appellant also claims that the Commission's approach is contrary even to the

ex-ante obligations set out in the Draft Digital Competition Bill, which allow the

entity to approach the Commission in case it no longer meets the thresholds to

be designated a gatekeeper. 241. It is useful to note how these remedies will alleviate specific competition

harm. Each one is being discussed hereinafter. 241.1 Remedy at Para 247.2.1 of Impugned Order: We were informed by the Commission that the above remedy addresses unfair

conditions imposed on the users and preserves choice. It gives user gives

opportunity to the user to choose sharing of data with free will and not under

coercion. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 161 of 184
 We need to note that the core principle is to remove exploitation by restoring

user choice. Users must retain the right to decide what data is collected, for

which purposes, and for how long. Any non-essential collection or cross-use

(like advertising etc.) can occur only with the concerned user's express and

revocable consent. The Appellant cannot assert unilateral or open-ended rights

over user data. This takes care of the abuse found in 2021 Policy i.e., coercive,

take-it-or-leave-it consent by re-establishing opt-in/opt-out which will be with

desired transparency, and purpose limitation, while still allowing lawful, user-

approved uses. We have already found herein earlier that the Commission is

well within its right when dealing with issues overlapping privacy and

competition. We cannot find any infirmity on this argument of the Commission

and basis the analysis in this order we cannot agree with the arguments of the

Appellants that this deals with optionality and transparency, which squarely

fall within the realm of privacy and data protection law. We therefore uphold

this remedy. 241.3 Remedy at Para 247.2.3: out option prominently through an in-app notification; and b) the option to review and modify their choice with respect to
 such sharing of data through a prominent tab in settings of
 WhatsApp application." Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 162 of 184
 The Commission brought to our notice that the above remedy restores user

autonomy through opt-out controls, which enhances competition on privacy by

enabling users to compare platforms and make active choices. Further, it's a

corollary to the rights granted to the users so that they have an option to change

their decision of not sharing or for that matter 'sharing' their data with Meta for

various purposes. We cannot find quarrel with the above arguments. And the

contentions of the Appellants that this restricts WhatsApp's ability and freedom

to choose its business model, adversely impacting its ability to offer new and

innovative products to their users in India and such directions also fall within

the realm of privacy and data protection law are not very strong compared to

what has been presented by the Commission. We need to note that the core

principle is to remove exploitation by restoring user choice. Users must retain

the right to decide what data is collected, for which purposes, and for how long.

Any non-essential collection or cross-use (like advertising etc) can occur only

with the concerned user's express and revocable consent. The Appellant cannot

assert unilateral or open-ended rights over user data. This takes care of the

abuse found in 2021 Policy i.e., coercive, take-it-or-leave-it consent by re-

establishing opt-in/opt-out which will be with desired transparency, and

purpose limitation, while still allowing lawful, user-approved uses. Thus, we

uphold this remedy also. 241.4. Remedy at Para 247.1: We were informed by the Commission that the above remedy prevents leveraging

of dominance in market of OTT messaging apps to reinforce Meta's position in

online display advertising market. This also creates a competitive level playing

field for other digital advertisers and OTT messaging apps that do not enjoy

such vast, integrated user datasets. Further, it protects the market from data-

driven foreclosure and gives potential competitors room to innovate and grow

without getting overwhelmed by Meta's cross-market advantages.

We note that this remedy is contestable as the rationale for the duration of 5

years ban was missing altogether in the Impugned Order. The justification that

such a period would "revive competitive conditions" cannot meet the threshold

required by law as claimed by the Appellants. CCI has categorized the remedies

into two categories - one for sharing data for advertisement purposes for which

5 years ban has been imposed and other remedy for sharing of data for other

than advertising. We find that once users have been given option to freely decide

to opt in or opt out, as in other reliefs, this direction becomes redundant. We

need to note that the core principle is to remove exploitation by restoring user

choice. Users must retain the right to decide what data is collected, for which

purposes, and for how long. Any non-essential collection or cross-use (like

advertising etc) can occur only with the concerned user's express and revocable

consent. The Appellant cannot assert unilateral or open-ended rights over user

data. This takes care of the abuse found in 2021 Policy i.e., coercive, take-it-or-

leave-it consent by re-establishing opt-in/opt-out which will be with desired

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 164 of 184
 transparency, and purpose limitation, while still allowing lawful, user-approved

uses. Then there is no requirement of these exclusive directions.

241.5. Remedy at Para 247.2.4: The Appellant claims that the Commission has failed to explain how it can be

required to comply with this remedy forever, even if it is not dominant. Section

4 does not apply if an entity does not enjoy a dominant position, which makes

this remedy wholly disproportionate. We find that the language of the direction

says that "all future policy updates shall also comply with these requirements" 243. The Appellant contends that imposition of penalty on Meta cannot be

justified. Only WhatsApp has been found dominant, and WhatsApp has

Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 165 of 184
 allegedly abused its dominant position by forcing users to share data with Meta

under the 2021 Update. Meta has vehemently opposed imposition of penalty on

several grounds noted herein after. Meta claims that the Impugned Order fails

to identify the relevant entity and, consequently, the relevant turnover for

imposition of penalty. The Relevant Entity for Consideration Is WhatsApp and

Not Meta. The primary purpose of imposing fines for competition law violations

is deterrence. The fine must be proportional, and relevant turnover is routinely

used to determine a proportional amount for the fine [Excel Crop Care v. CCI,

Paragraph 92]. Further, the penalty must be based on the relevant turnover of

the entity that committed the competition violation. Here, however, the

Commission imposes a penalty based on the relevant turnover of both Meta and

WhatsApp [Paragraph 257, Impugned Order]. The Impugned Order does not

attribute an independent violation of the Competition Act to Meta; and the

WhatsApp service (and the 2021 Update to which it applies) is provided by

WhatsApp and not Meta. Accordingly, the Commission should not have imposed

a penalty based on Meta's turnover at all. Instead, any penalty should have been

based on WhatsApp's relevant turnover in India. The impugned order wrongfully

imposes a penalty on Meta for an alleged conduct by its subsidiary. In the past,

the Commission has refrained from imposing a penalty on a parent company

for a contravention of the Competition Act by its subsidiary. For example: and (c) The Commission penalised only Schott Glass India even
 though it noted that the resources available to Schott Glass
 India were from its parent group [Paragraph 9.95 and
 Paragraphs 10.2-10.3, Schott Glass CCI]. 244. This is consistent with the approach in jurisdictions like the United States

of America, where courts have held that, absent any anti-competitive conduct

by the parent entity, there is no basis for holding a parent liable for the antitrust

violation of its subsidiary [Arnold Chevrolet LLC v. Tribune Co., 418 F. Supp

2d 172, 178]. 245. Thus, any penalty must have been calculated based on WhatsApp's

relevant turnover because: 246. The Commission imposes a penalty based on the relevant turnover of both

Meta and WhatsApp because Meta allegedly enjoys full control over the activities

and operations of WhatsApp. The law is clear that this alter ego theory must

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 167 of 184
 satisfy a heightened threshold and be supported by evidence that the parent

company dominates the subsidiary so fully that they are essentially the same

company. Such a determination requires: (i) fraudulent intention; and (ii)

complete domination of the affairs of the subsidiary by the parent [ Paragraph

94, Cox & Kings Ltd. v. SAP India Private Limited , (2024) 4 SCC 1;

Paragraphs 70-74, Balwant Rai Saluja v. Air India Limited , (2014) 9 SCC 407; Paragraph 90, LIC v Escorts Ltd. (1986) 1 SCC 264]. None of these factors have

been established here. 247. It is claimed by Meta that the Commission's basis for asserting that

WhatsApp is "fully controlled" by Meta for penalty purposes is equally

unavailing: (a) Absence of standalone financial statements: The
 Impugned Order claims that the absence of standalone
 financial statements for WhatsApp demonstrates that it is
 'fully controlled' by Meta for fining purposes [Paragraph
 257, Impugned Order]. WhatsApp is not an Indian entity
 and therefore does not maintain its financials in
 accordance with Indian regulatory standards, as this is not
 a statutory requirement for it. WhatsApp operates
 consistent with the accounting standards applicable to it,
 and its adherence to those standards may not be construed
 as Meta having full control over WhatsApp's activities and
 operations for fining purposes; and (b) Common executives: The Impugned Order emphasises
 that WhatsApp and Meta have common executives
 [Paragraph 257, Impugned Order]. However, overlaps in
 the executive pool and management of group companies
 are commonplace and in the ordinary course of business. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 168 of 184
 Such cross-staffing enables the companies to achieve
 broad alignment with their legal obligations and financial
 goals, and this does not undermine the established
 "separate legal entity" doctrine in corporate laws. To the
 contrary, courts have held that "mere similarity of
 shareholding patterns or commonality of management
 would not be by itself sufficient to lift the corporate veil.
 Law does not prohibit creation of various companies and
 corporations for different and specific purposes under
 common management. Each company, however, retains its
 independent legal entity and character" [ Paragraph 19,
 Board of Trustees of Port Kandla v. Jaisu Shipping Co . Pvt. Ltd., Special Civil Application No. 23329 of 2017].
 Indeed, this Hon'ble Tribunal itself has followed these
 principles in the past, observing that "[m]ere ownership,
 parental control, management of a subsidiary by the
 holding company [] does not constitute sufficient and
 adequate ground to justify piercing the status of their
 relationship" [Paragraph 16, Vishal Sethi v. Collage
 Group Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., (2024) SCC OnLine
 NCLAT 396]. 248. Therefore, Meta claims that the Commission has failed to demonstrate

that WhatsApp and Meta are not separate legal entities. As a result, the

Commission may not impose a penalty based on Meta's turnover, and the

penalty should be set aside. We find strength in the arguments presented

regarding Meta and WhatsApp being separate legal entity. 249. Furthermore, Meta claims that any penalty imposed on Meta is

unjustified as the impugned order fails to establish any anti-competitive effects

attributable to Meta's conduct. The Commission states that it is committed to

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 169 of 184
 ensuring that penalties are 'proportionate' and 'reflective of the impact of the

violations' [Paragraph 253, Impugned Order]. In the absence of any established

effects in the market, the impact of any (hypothetical) violation cannot be

determined, and any penalty imposed is inherently disproportionate. The

principle of proportionality while imposing penalties has been recognised by

several courts. For instance, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court set aside a penalty

imposed by the Commission for non-compliance with its order, observing that

the order was passed by the Commission without any application of mind and

that the penalty was "shockingly disproportionate" [ Paragraphs 22 and 33,

Rajkumar Dyeing & Printing Works Private Limited & Anr. v. Competition

Commission of India , (2014) SCC OnLine Del 6450]. Appellant contends that

the Impugned Order fails to demonstrate that Meta's conduct has caused any

anti-competitive effects in the alleged market for "online display advertising in

India". Indeed, it fails to demonstrate any barrier to entry or growth by Meta's

competitors, many of whom are thriving in the advertising sector. Nor has the

Commission established any incremental benefit to Meta's advertising presence

as a result of the limited user data sharing by WhatsApp. The Commission also

fails to establish that consumers are harmed by Meta's conduct. Accordingly, in

the absence of any anti-competitive effects, the penalty is clearly

disproportionate to any 'harm' caused. To the contrary, the Commission, in fact,

admits that advertisers value platforms that deliver relevant advertisements to

users which align with the users' preferences and interests [Paragraph 207,

Impugned Order]. Accordingly, the penalties imposed in the Impugned Order

should be set aside as they have been issued in the absence of anti-competitive

effects. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 170 of 184 250. Appellant also claims that the Commission incorrectly applies the

Competition (Amendment) Act, 2023 for determination of penalty. The

Commission determines the penalty applicable to the parties based on the

amendments to Section 27(b) added by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2023

(Amendment Act), which was only brought into force on 5 March 2024. The law

in force at the time the alleged contravention took place (i.e., January 2021) and

even when the DG Report was published (i.e., 14 July 2023) did not include

these amendments. The Competition Commission of India (Determination of

Turnover or Income) Regulations, 2024 (Turnover Regulations) and the

Competition Commission of India (Determination of Monetary Penalty)

Guidelines, 2024 (Penalty Guidelines) were also introduced on 6 March 2024.

There was no basis to retrospectively apply the Amendment Act, the Turnover

Regulations, or the Penalty Guidelines to conduct that had already taken place.

Unless otherwise specified, any amendment applies only to prospective conduct

and cannot be applied retrospectively [ Paragraph 26, M. Surender Reddy v.

State of A.P. , (2015) 8 SCC 410; Paragraphs 28-29, CIT v. Vatika Township

Private Limited , (2015) 1 SCC 1; and Paragraph 26, ITC Limited v. Competition

Commission of India, Competition Appeal (AT) No. 11 of 2018]. The Amendment

Act, Turnover Regulations, and Penalty Guidelines do not specify that they have

retrospective effect and, therefore, they should be considered prospective in

nature. Furthermore, there is nothing in the legislative intent to even indicate

that these provisions were intended to apply retrospectively. The 'Explanations'

cannot be read as merely clarificatory. The Commission's rationale to

retrospectively apply Explanation 2 of the amended Section 27(b) was that "the

objective of explanation to a section is to clarify or elucidate the intent of the

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 171 of 184
 legislation without expanding or narrowing its original scope. It serves to make

the meaning clear and consistent, aiding interpretation without altering or

restricting the substantive provision itself" [Paragraph 252, Impugned Order].

This rationale is clearly inapplicable to the Amendment Act. Explanation 2

clearly expands the original scope of Section 27(b) and does not merely make its

meaning clear. It introduces a substantive shift in the legal standard from the

one set by the Hon'ble Supreme Court [Paragraphs 91-94, Excel Crop v. CCI].

The impact of this shift is an increase in the maximum possible penalty that

can be levied by changing the basis of the cap on penalties from "relevant"

turnover to "global" turnover. Where an explanation is substantive, it cannot be

merely read to be clarificatory [ Paragraph 62(ii), Fashion Design Council of

India v. Government of NCT , 2024 SCC OnLine Del 5457]. Further, it is also

a settled principle of law that penalty provisions are substantive in nature

[Paragraph 39, M/s Khemka & Co (Agencies) Private Limited v. State of

Maharashtra , (1975) 2 SCC 22]. Accordingly, the Commission errs in law by

applying the explanation introduced by way of the Amendment Act in such a

case and should have applied the applicable law in force at the time (i.e., the

standards set out in Excel Crop v. CCI). 251. Appellant also claims that the Commission fails to account for important

mitigating factors. Even if a penalty was warranted (which it was not), the

amount of the penalty is disproportionate because the Commission failed to

effectively consider two important mitigating factors: (i) the novel facts and

circumstances and unique theories of harm; and (ii) the nature of the industry

in which Meta operates. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that penalties

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 172 of 184
 should not be imposed for a default in cases where there are novel facts and

circumstances and unique theories of harm unless the party acted in deliberate

defiance of the law or in conscious disregard of its obligation [ Paragraph 8,

Hindustan Steel Ltd vs. State of Orissa , (1969) 2 SCC 627; Paragraph 110,

Excel Crop v. CCI]. Similarly, the European Commission (then the Commission

of the European Communities) has also considered the novelty of a case when

deciding whether to impose penalties. It stated, "In the case in point, in view of

the fact that the concept of collective dominant position is being used for the

first time under Article 86 , the Commission considers that no fines should be

imposed under Article 86" [ Paragraph 84(a), Re Italian Flat Glass, OJ L33/44].

There is no question that this present case is the first time in India that a privacy

policy is being adjudicated on competition standards. This certainly involves

novel facts and circumstances and unique theories of harm. Meta could not

have foreseen that its conduct would be alleged to be in violation of the Competition Act , especially since its conduct was bona fide and aimed at

providing new and innovative products and services to users in India and across

the world. The Commission appears to claim that the issues in this case are not

novel because competition authorities across jurisdictions have increasingly

been addressing issues arising out of data, network effects, and leveraging in

digital markets [Paragraph 248, Impugned Order]. However, the Commission

fails to provide any examples where those other authorities addressed issues

that were the same as the issues before the Commission in this case. To the

contrary, the Commission concedes that "[o]f course, the exact nature and

impact of issues vary on a case-to-case basis" [Paragraph 248, Impugned

Order]. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 173 of 184 252. Appellant further argues that the Commission's argument is undercut by

its own reasoning. Specifically, when defining the relevant market and

considering issues involved in the digital market, the Commission limits the

geographic market to India, citing India's "unique" regulatory environment as

compared to other global regimes [See, e.g., Paragraph 48.12 and Paragraph

128, Impugned Order]. Under the Commission's own reasoning, the fact that

issues involving the digital market have been addressed by other authorities

does not mean those issues are not novel in India. Yet, the Commission is quick

to dismiss India's "unique" regulatory environment and import the experience

of other jurisdictions when deciding to impose penalties [Paragraph 248,

Impugned Order]. 253. Meta also claims that the Commission fails to effectively consider the

nature of the industry as a mitigating factor. In previous decisions, the

Commission has taken into account the nature of the industry and market

dynamics while determining penalties [ Paragraphs 105 and 123, Fast Track

Call Cab Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and Meru Travel Solutions

Pvt. Ltd. v. ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Case Nos . 6 and 74 of 2015]. However,

in this case, the Commission fails to effectively account for the nature of digital

markets when imposing a penalty on Meta. The nature of the digital market is

a mitigating factor that precludes the imposition of a penalty. Specifically, Meta

operates in a highly dynamic industry, as digital markets are characterised by

innovation, fast-moving trends, and changing tastes and preferences. The

dynamic advertising landscape has benefited from industry-wide digitisation,

and technological developments are improving the personalisation abilities of

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 174 of 184
 offline channels, increasing the substitutability between online and offline

channels. The dynamic nature of the online display advertising market is

further exemplified by the explosion in entry and expansion of competitors

between 2016 and 2022. Moreover, with the introduction of AI and new

technologies, the industry is poised toward further disruption and innovation.

The Impugned Order fails to account for the rapidly changing and dynamic

nature of the industry, where there is a constant shift in users' content

preferences, ongoing improvement and enhancement in the nature of services

offered by digital players, and periodic shifts in content display and

consumption, etc. Given that the market often self-evolves based on these

shifting factors, imposing penalties in such a fast-paced industry is

inappropriate. 254. The Appellant also claims that the Impugned Order also fails to provide

any cogent methodology explaining how the Commission arrived at the

percentage for penalty. The Impugned Order concludes that the penalty should

be 4% (four per cent) of the average total relevant turnover for Meta and

WhatsApp. It claims that it arrived at this percentage based on the nature and

gravity of the contravention as well as the nature of the industry or sector

affected by the contravention. It gauges the nature and gravity of the

contravention from the "sheer number of WhatsApp users affected by the 2021

Update" [Paragraph 261, Impugned Order]. However, this reasoning is vague

and flawed because: 255. In short, Meta counters the imposition of penalty on Meta on the grounds

that the impugned order is disproportionate and unfair. A penalty on Meta is

issued without due consideration that Meta's conduct squarely involves issues

of privacy and data protection laws. Meta has not violated any provision of the Competition Act . Meta operates in a highly competitive market that is

significantly wider than the alleged relevant market for "online display

advertising in India". Meta is not dominant in any alleged relevant market.

Further Meta has not abused its dominant position either as a result of

leveraging or through denial of market access. Further, Meta has not engaged

in conduct that has resulted in any anti-competitive effects. 256. Rebutting the arguments of the Appellants the Commission contends that

it has adequately and correctly dealt with various submissions of Appellants in

relation to imposition of penalty including quantum of penalty in light of

Appellants' defence of mitigating circumstances and imposition of penalty on

Meta through WhatsApp. The same are provided in details in paragraphs 248

to 263 of the impugned Order. Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 176 of 184 257. The issue of imposition of penalties and its determination has been

considered in detail in the impugned order which is extracted as below for better

understanding: Perusal of the explanation reveals the justification to be without any infirmity. 258. With respect to amendment of Section 27(b) of the Act, it has been noted

as follows in the impugned order: 252. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in plethora of judgements has clarified
 the intent, purpose and legal effect of an Explanation. The Commission
 notes that the objective of explanation to a section is to clarify or elucidate
 the intent of the legislation without expanding or narrowing its original
 scope. It serves to make the meaning clear and consistent, aiding
 interpretation without altering or restricting the substantive provision
 itself. Thus, the contentions of the OPs are rejected." We don't find any infirmity even in this line of reasoning. 259. Further it has been noted by the Commission that "...... Be that as it may,

the primary contention of the OPs is that penalty should not be based on their

global turnover. As elaborated infra, the Commission has computed the penalty

based on the turnover of the OPs in India and therefore, no prejudice has been

caused to the OPs by application of amended Section 27(b) of the Act....." 260. The Commission also notes Regulations and Guidelines with respect to

computation of monetary penalty: 255. In terms of Penalty Guidelines issued by the Commission, the first
 step is determination of relevant turnover. Thereafter, the Commission
 would consider an amount up to thirty percent of the average relevant
 turnover of the enterprise for the purpose of determination of penalty to be
 imposed on an enterprise under Section 27(b) of the Act. The amount so
 determined would be adjusted for mitigating and aggravating factors
 applicable to a given case. Further, subject to legal maximum, the
 Commission may further increase the amount of penalty, if the amount of
 penalty so determined is not sufficient to create deterrence." Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 178 of 184 261. Basis the relevant turnover and relevant entity, penalty is concluded as

follows in the impugned order: increasing revenue numbers for Meta from display advertising. The anti-
 competitive effect has already been elaborated in this order and the same
 is not being repeated for brevity. Therefore, considering the nature and
 gravity of contravention as well as nature of the industry or sector affected
 by the contravention, the Commission concludes that an amount of 4%
 (four per cent) of the average total relevant turnover as stated above is the
 basis for determination of penalty to be imposed on the OPs under Section
 27(b) of the Act. Accordingly, the amount so determined is Rs. 532.86
 crore based on average total relevant turnover as computed above. 262. Coming to assessment of mitigating and aggravating factors, the
 OPs have submitted various mitigating factors viz. co-operation with the
 Commission and the DG throughout the investigation, first-time
 contravention of the Act by the OPs, benefits to consumers and
 advertisers, as well as pro-competitive effects, etc. The OPs have also
 averred that optional features that result in sharing of user data from
 WhatsApp to Meta for advertising purposes were introduced recently. The
 Commission has given a thoughtful consideration to these factors and
 notes that WhatsApp users started receiving notifications relating to
 mandatory acceptance of 2021 Update from 05.01.2021 and on
 07.05.2021, WhatsApp announced that no user would have their account
 deleted or lose functionality due to non-acceptance of the 2021 Update.
 Meta has also asserted that user data is currently being shared by
 WhatsApp with Meta for advertising purposes in limited scenarios. In view
 of the same, the Commission decides to reduce the amount of penalty as
 determined in previous para by 60% (sixty per cent). The Commission do
 not find any aggravating factor in the present matter." This determination of penalty is as per the methodology and Regulations and

also accounts for mitigating factors and therefore we cannot find any infirmity

in this conclusion of the Commission. It is to be noted that with the same

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 181 of 184
 methodology even with slightly modified orders, we find that the amount of

penalty will work out to be the same i.e. Rs. 213.14 crore only (Rs. Two hundred

Thirteen Crores and Fourteen Lakhs only). 262. Meta is the parent company of WhatsApp. Apart from many other

activities, Meta has been undertaking "online display advertising". Commission

has found it be leading in this segment. Commission notes that Appellants

collect extensive user data from WhatsApp through the 2021 Policy, and

thereafter, shares this data with other Meta companies for non-WhatsApp

purposes, including digital advertisements on Meta's various platforms. This

causes, and has further potential to cause, immense anti-competitive harm to

Meta's competitors in the online display advertising market. We have already

concluded earlier that Meta is not dominant in the market for "online display

advertising in India" but a leading player. But its conduct has caused anti-

competitive effects in the market for "online display advertising in India" by

denial in this market. We have determined earlier, it is the WhatsApp alone,

which is dominant in relevant market of OTT messaging apps through

smartphones in India and is also found to have abused its dominant position

and violated Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. Thus, imposition of penalty on

WhatsApp is wholly justified. But in case of Meta group, we find that in online

display advertisement market, they have violated section 4(2)(c) but not Section

4(2)(e). We also note that the violation of Section 4(2)(e) to be not sustainable

as WhatsApp and Meta are separate legal entities, even though Meta is acquired

WhatsApp and has full control company. Still there is a violation of Section

4(2)(a(i) and section 4(2)(c) - by WhatsApp and by Meta group respectively. We

 Competition Appeal No. 1 & 2 of 2025 182 of 184
 also need to note that even though legally WhatsApp and Meta are separate legal

entities, yet Meta is parent company of WhatsApp. We also note that Meta enjoys

fall control over the activities and operations of WhatsApp. WhatsApp doesn't

have standalone financial statements. Furthermore, WhatsApp and Meta have

common executives. We need not pierce the corporate veil but Commission has

established that due to excessive data sharing between WhatsApp and Meta, a

situation of market denial has been created. Therefore, there is a justification

in imposing penalty on both in a combined manner as has been worked out by

the Commission. 263. We have gone through the methodology adopted by the Commission in

calculating the penalty and we don't find any having any infirmity. We therefore

do not find justification in ordering review of the penalty.

Conclusion 264. On the basis of aforesaid we arrive at following conclusions: is not sustainable and is set aside, the rest of directions i.e. 247.2.1,

 247.2.2, 247.2.3 and 247.2.4 are upheld. d) The penalty imposed of ₹213.14 crore only (Rupees Two Hundred

 Thirteen Crores and Fourteen Lakhs only) upon Meta is upheld.

Order 265. In result, both the Appeals are partly allowed only to the extent of: The order dated 18 November 2024 is modified accordingly. The

 parties shall bear their own cost. [Justice Ashok Bhushan]
 Chairperson

 [Arun Baroka]
 Member (Technical)
New Delhi. November 4, 2025.