1. This second appeal arises out of the judgment and decree dated 19.01.1999 and 25.01.1999 respectively, entered by learned District Judge, Siddharth Nagar, in Civil Appeal No. 40 of 1998, Kedarnath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai & another, which partly modifies and largely upsets the judgment and decree dated 26.03.1998 and 07.04.1998 respectively rendered by the learned II-Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division), Bansi, Siddharth Nagar in Original Suit No. 295 of 1980, Kedar Nath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai and another. 2. This second appeal has been instituted by Ganga Prasad Rai, who is arrayed as defendant no. 1 in the suit. 3. Civil action was brought by the plaintiff-respondent no.1, against the defendant no.1-appellant and defendant no.2-respondent no.2, by instituting Original Suit No. 295 of 1980, Kedar Nath Vs. Ganga Prasad and others, before the IInd Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division), Bansi, District Basti (Siddharth Nagar). The genealogical table set out in the plaint which describes the respective positions of the parties to the suit is extracted below. 4. The plaintiff-respondent no.1, defendant no.1-appellant and defendant no.2-respondent no. 2 are real brothers. The plaint asserts that the property in dispute devolved upon the parties by inheritance was partitioned in three equal parts. The parties came in possession of their respective shares pursuant to the said family settlement. The land situated in Plot Nos. 2913 and 2914 marked as ABCD in the map at the foot of the plaint, constitutes the disputed property in the suit. According to the plaint, the plaintiff-respondent no. 1 is the sole owner of the said property as it was apportioned to him in the partition. 5. The defendant no. 1-appellant threatened to force himself on the disputed land, made encroachments and raised constructions thereon, which are marked as K L M N and X Y P Q R in the map attached at the foot of the plaint. 6. On this cause of action, the suit was instituted by the plaintiff -respondent no.1 seeking various reliefs. The plaintiff-respondent no.1 prays that the defendant no. 1- appellant, be permanently injuncted from interfering in the peaceful possession of the plaintiff-respondent no.1, over the disputed plot of land marked as ABCD in the map at the foot of the plaint. 7. A mandatory injunction against defendant no. 1-appellant is sought, after demolition of the constructions marked as K L M N and X Y P Q R made by defendant no. 1-appellant over the disputed plot. Finally, the relief clause prays that the possession of the parts of the land on which the disputed constructions have been raised by the defendant no. 1-appellant, be made over to the plaintiff-respondent no. 1. 8. The alternative prayer is to partition the disputed property i.e. the plots' numbers' 2913 and 2914. 9. The defendant no. 1-appellant entered his opposition to the plaint in the written statement. In the written statement, the defendant no. 1- appellant categorically denies all allegations of encroachment of land and asserts that the disputed plot of land A B C D fell to the share of the defendant no. 1-appellant in the partition. True status of the shares of respective parties after the partition is provided in the map at the foot of the written statement. 10. The written statement references the the judgement of the consolidation officer dated 20.03.1986 rejecting the claim of the plaintiff-respondent no. 1, on the disputed property, on the foot that the family partition had already taken place between the parties. 11. The additional written statement, states that the plaintiff-respondent no.1 had not referenced the ancestral house in plots nos. 2911 and 2912 in the plaint which was also part of the partitioned ancestral property. 12. The following issues (which are relevant at this stage) were framed by the learned trial court: 13. The learned trial court records that the total property bequeathed by inheritance upon the plaintiff-respondent no.1 as well as defendant no.1-appellant & defendant no.2-respondent no.2, was constituted in plots' nos,. 2911/0-5-2, 2912/8-0, 2913/0-8-1 and 2914/0-5-2 Dhur. The total area comprised in all four plots was 26 Biswa 05 Dhur. The parties are real brothers. A family partition divided the property into equal three parts. The parties came into possession over their respective shares after the partition. 14. Employing simple mathematics, the learned trial court concluded that an area of 8 Biswa and 15 Dhur, devolved upon each brother by inheritance and partition. Appreciation of documentary evidence and admissions of the parties established that Plots No. 2911 and 2912 were Abadi lands, while plots no. 2913 and 2914 were recorded as Bhumidhari lands. 15. The learned trial court then enquired into the critical issue whether the disputed plot marked as ABCD in the map at the foot of the plaint, fell to the share of the plaintiff-respondent no. 1 in the partition and the alleged encroachment by the defendant no.1-appellant. 16. Partition of ancestral house situated in plot nos. 2911 and 2912 was confirmed by the learned trial court. With the aid of the commissioner report and the oral evidence in the record, the learned trial court found that the area to the extent of 8 Biswa was apportioned to the plaintiff-respondent no.1 in plots' nos'. 2911 and 2912 in the family partition. The defendant no. 1-appellant was allotted 1 Biswa 2 Dhur in the plots' nos'. 2911 and 2912. While an area of 3 Biswa 6 Dhur in plots' nos'. 2911 and 2912 fell to the share of defendant no. 2-respondent no. 2. 17. The learned trial court also held that the parties are in settled possession over their respective parts in plots' nos'. 2911 and 2912. 18. There was a difference in the areas apportioned to the parties in the ancestral house in plots' nos'. 2911 and 2912 in the partition. Consequently, the parties, had to adjust their respective shares in plots' nos'. 2914 and 2913 to make the distribution equitable. The entitlement of each party being 8 Biswa 15 Dhur. 19. The plaintiff-defendant no. 1, was only entitled to 9 Dhur in plots' nos'. 2914 and 2913, since he got a lion's share of the area in plots' nos'. 2911 and 2912. Additional area, was given to defendant no. 1-appellant and defendant no. 2-respondent no.2 in plots' nos'. 2913 and 2914 to cater to the shortfall which arose as a result of the major share being allotted to the plaintiff-respondent no.1 in plots' nos'. 2911 and 2912. The allotment to the defendant no. 1-appellant in plots' nos'. 2913 and 2914 was 7 Biswa 12 Dhur which was his entitlement. 20. The learned trial court also found that the parties were in possession of their respective parts in plots' nos'. 2913 and 2914. 21. The share to which the plaintiff-respondent no. 1, was entitled in plot no. 2913 was deficient by 9 Dhur. Learned trial court accordingly held that the plaintiff-respondent no.1 was entitled to an area of 9 Dhur in plot no. 2913 on the western side and was the sole owner thereof consequent to the partition. Accordingly, permanent injunction in favour of the plaintiff-respondent no. 1 in respect of and area of 9 Dhur on the western side in plot no. 2913 was granted by the learned trial court. 22. The learned trial court noticed Section 176 of the Uttar Pradesh Zamidari Abolition and Land Reforms Act (hereinafter referred to as the UPZA&LR Act), which states that the partition of Bhumidhari land lies in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Revenue Courts. The learned court consequently held that it did not possess the jurisdiction to partition the plot nos. 2913 and 2914. Moreover, the plots had already been partitioned. Hence, the alternative relief was denied to the plaintiff-respondent no. 1. 23. In the wake of the aforesaid reasoning, the learned trial court refused the relief of demolition of the offending constructions made by the defendant no. 1-appellant and declined to grant the relief of mandatory injunction to the plaintiff-respondent no. 1 in regard to the disputed property. 24. In this manner, the learned trial court decided the suit by its judgment and decree dated 26.03.1998 and 07.04.1998, respectively. 25. The defendant no.1- appellant as well as respondent no. 2-defendant no.2, did not challenge the judgement and decree passed by the learned trial court. 26. The judgment and decree dated 26.03.1998 and 07.04.1998 respectively, rendered by the learned II-Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division), Bansi, Siddharth Nagar in Original Suit No. 295 of 1980, Kedar Nath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai and another was carried in appeal by the plaintiff-respondent no.1. 27. The appeal was registered as Civil Appeal No. 40 of 1998, Kedarnath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai & another. 28. Learned appellate court framed the following issue for determination: 29. The learned appellate court in its judgment dated 19.01.1999 found that the total area of the disputed property increased after consolidation operations. The appellate court accepted entries of the consolidation Form 41, (Paper No. 95C1), to support this finding and also to record that all 4 plots namely plots nos. 2911, 2912, 2913 and 2914 are Abadi on the spot. The learned appellate court with the "help" of Civil Court Amin created a fresh map of the property from the Commissioner report Paper No. 52-C2. The new map traced by the Civil Court Amin was consistent with the measurements recorded in consolidation Form 41 (Paper No. 95C1). The appellate court then made a fresh partition of the entire property constituted in the four plots, (plots' nos'. 2911, 2912, 2913 & 2914). The respective shares to which the each party was entitled were marked in the newly created map. The appellate court accepted the total area of the four plots, given in the consolidation proceedings as 27 Bishwa 18 Dhur. Share of each party in area terms, was 9 Biswa 6 Dhur. The share of the plaintiff-respondent no.1 was marked out in read letters ABCH in the map so created by the appellate court. 30. In light of the above exercise and findings, the appellate court allowed the appeal and modified the judgment and decree passed by the learned trial court accordingly. The appellate court decreed the suit of the plaintiff-respondent no.1 for possession of the disputed property after demolition of the disputed constructions thereon. The defendant no.1-appellant and defendant no. 2-respondent no.2, were permanently restrained from interfering in the possession of the plaintiff-respondent no.1 over the land shown in letters ABCH in the map drawn by the learned appellate court. The newly created map by the learned appellate court was made part of the decree. 31. Sri S.K. Chaturvedi, learned counsel for the defendant no.1-appellant assailing the judgment and decree entered by the learned appellate court submits that the judgment exceeds the pleadings and goes beyond the relief sought by partitioning all four plots and granting an injunction after such partition in regard to all the four plots namely plots no. 2913, 2914, 2911 and 2912. No pleadings with respect to increase of area during consolidation proceedings were taken in the plaint. No documents in regard to the increased in area during consolidation proceedings were submitted along with list appended to the plaint which is relatable to Order 7 Rule 14 CPC nor marked as exhibits by the learned trial court. By relying on such documents and finding an increase in the area the learned first appellate court has erred in law. The procedure adopted by the learned appellate court to create a fresh map and for repartitioning the four plots of land was illegal. The findings of the learned appellate court that all plots were Abadi lands, was perverse particularly in view of the admission of the parties, judgment in consolidation proceedings and the findings of the learned trial court. A fresh partition was not called for. 32. It was finally contended that the jurisdiction to partition the agricultural property vests exclusively with the revenue courts by virtue of powers conferred under Section 331 of the UPZA&LR Act. The jurisdiction of the civil court is consequently ousted in this regard. Both the courts acted in excess of jurisdiction conferred by law. 33. Sri Ramanand Pandey, learned counsel for the respondents submits that the learned appellate court was justified in considering the area of the property which stood enhanced after the consolidation operations. He relied upon Consolidation Form 41, which are part of the paper book and marked as Paper No. 95Ga, in the record. The papers are also part of the record. 34. At this stage, a reference may be made to the Original Suit No 424 of 1981, Ganga Prasad Vs. Kedar Nath and another, instituted by the defendant no. 1-appellant, before the learned trial court. The suit was in regard to the ancestral house. The suit was dismissed by the learned trial court by judgment and decree dated 26.03.1998. The judgment of learned trial court dated 26.03.1998 is not taken in appeal by any party. In light of the preceding narrative in this judgment, the said judgment has no relevance to the controversy at hand. It is being noticed since the same was mentioned by Sri Ramanand Pandey, learned counsel for the plaintiff-respondent no.1. 35. The parties agreed during the arguments, that the following substantial questions of law arise for determination in this second appeal: 36. Brief facts relevant for deciding the substantial questions of law so framed shall be reprised from the preceding factual narrative. 37. The appellate court in its judgment partitioned the entire property which devolved upon the parties including the plots no. 2911 and 2912. There was no pleading in regard to the plots no. 2911 and 2912 in the plaint. No issues were framed in regard to the aforesaid plots. It is equally noteworthy that no relief for partitioning the plots no. 2911 and 2912 was sought in the plaint. When the parties went to trial, the status of the aforesaid plots was not in issue. The appellate court went beyond the pleadings and granted relief in excess of the relief sought by the plaintiff-respondent no. 1, by partitioning the entire property including plots no. 2911 and 2912. 38. The plaint does not state that area of the plots in dispute was enlarged during consolidation proceedings. No documents to establish increase in area of the plots during consolidation proceedings were mentioned in the list of documents appended to the plaint as contemplated under Order 7 Rule 14, nor marked as Exhibits by the learned trial court. 39. Learned appellate court once again went beyond the pleadings of the parties, to find that the area of the plots in dispute was increased during consolidation proceedings. This finding was made on the foot of Consolidation Form 41(Paper No. 95 C). Consolidation Form 41 (Paper No. 95C) could not have been received in evidence, in absence of pleadings. 40. Further, Consolidation Form 41 (Paper No. 95C) was not admissible in evidence, since the said document was not mentioned in the list of documents appended to the plaint under Order 7 Rule 14 and was not marked as an Exhibit by the learned trial court to be admitted in evidence. 41. The rules relating to pleadings are set out in Order 6 C.P.C . under the heading "Pleadings Generally". The case of a party is set forth in the pleadings in the plaint. The plaint must conform to the provisions of Order 6 C.P.C . The law relating to the pleadings is stated with clarity in the C.P.C . and settled with finality in various judgments of the courts. The party has to state its case in a concise form in the plaint/written statement by pleading all material facts. The pleadings should not be vague. However, while construing the pleadings, the courts do not adopt a hypertechincal approach. The purpose of the pleadings is also to alert the adversary to the case of the party. This will enable the adversary/opposite party to assert its defence and or refutal in its pleadings and tender its evidence in regard thereto. The law of pleadings ensures that no party can spring a surprise upon its adversary and render the latter without opportunity to defend itself. The law of pleadings poses certain limitations on parties as well as the courts. The courts cannot travel beyond pleadings and cannot grant relief which is not sought. Similarly, the court cannot receive evidence of facts which are not stated in the pleadings. 42. It would be apposite to reinforce the narrative with authority in point. 43. The purpose of pleadings was examined and delineated by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sri Venkataramana Devaru and others v. The State of Mysore and others, reported at AIR 1958 SC 255, in the following terms: 44. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ram Sarup Gupta v. Bishun Narain Inter College , reported at (1987) 2 SCC 555 considered in depth the responsibility of a party while pleading its case and the approach of the courts construing the pleadings. The court precluded a party from relying on evidence in the absence of pleadings. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ram Sarup Gupta (supra) held thus: 45. In SBI v. S.N. Goyal , reported at (2008) 8 SCC 92 the Hon'ble Supreme Court set its face against adjudication of an issue which was not pleaded and distinguished the adjudication of a civil dispute from exercise of powers of judicial review, by stating: 46. The importance of pleadings was reprised by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Maria Margarida Sequeira Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeira, reported at (2012) 5 SCC 370. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Maria Margarida Sequeira Fernandes (supra) construing the importance of pleadings opined thus: 47. Similarly, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. Ibrahim Uddin , reported at (2012) 8 SCC 148, after considering ample authority in point ruled as follows: 48. In light of the discussion in the preceding paragraphs, the substantial questions of law no. 1 and 2 are respectively answered as follows: 49. The appellate court erred in law by going beyond pleadings and in excess of relief sought and partitioning the entire property including plots no. 2911 and 2912 which were not subject matters of dispute in the plaint. Answer to substantial question of law No.II : 50. The appellate court also misdirected itself in law and travelled beyond the pleadings by finding that the area of the plots was enhanced during consolidation proceedings. 51. The appellate court also erred by relying on Consolidation Form 41 (Paper No. 95C), since it could not have been received in evidence, in absence of pleadings. Further the said document was not admissible in evidence because it was not mentioned in the list of documents submitted with the plaint nor marked as an Exhibit by the learned trial court to be admitted in evidence. 52. The learned appellate court repartitioned the entire property. The legality of this action shall now be examined. 53. Partition of property by family settlement is a long established alternative dispute resolution method which is accepted by the courts. The parties to a family settlement, partition a joint property on mutually accepted terms. 54. The practice of accepting the family settlements is long, and the rationale behind it is sound. Family settlements are created by mutual consent of parties. Such family settlements ensure amicable resolution of property issues. The family settlements preclude any future disputes and resolve existing disputes in an amicable fashion. Such settlements preempt litigation and prevent bad blood in the family. The courts have consistently upheld the family settlements and set their face against reopening of family settlements which have been given effect. 55. Courts have vested sanctity in family partition, by according finality to family partitions. A bonafide partition once effected between the parties is final and irrevocable. The parties cannot renege from the same. The partition cannot be undone subsequently on the ground of mere inequality of shares. 56. It would be apposite to fortify these propositions by good authority. 57. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ranganayakamma v. K.S. Prakash , reported at (2008) 15 SCC 673 stated the purpose and attributes of family settlements: 58. A similar statement of law on family partition was made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Hari Shankar Singhania v. Gaur Hari Singhania , reported at (2006) 4 SCC 658, by holding: 59. Stating the conditions when partition can be reopened, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Devarajan v. Janaki Ammal in Civil Appeal No. 2298 of 1966 observed as under: 60. After consideration of authority in point, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ratnam Chettiar v. S.M. Kuppuswami Chettiar , reported at (1976) 1 SCC 214 distilled the law on the subject of reopening of partition thus: The facts of the present case, in our opinion, fall squarely within propositions Nos. (3) and (4) indicated above." 61. While dealing with consequences of partition, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shub Karan Bubna v. Sita Saran Bubna , reported at (2009) 9 SCC 689 observed as follows: 62. Family partition between the parties in this case, satisfies the tests of a bonafide partition laid down by the courts. The plaintiff-respondent no. 1, had earlier filed a suit for partition before the consolidation authority, which had been dismissed on the foot that the property had already been partitioned. The partition of the entire property was given effect to. The ingredients for reopening the partition are not made out in the established facts of the case. 63. It is established that the parties entered into possession over their respective shares in the property, pursuant to the partition. After the partition the sole ownership of the partitioned shares came to be vested in the respective parties. The partition could not have been undone. In view of the preceding discussion, the substantial question of law no. III is answered hereunder: 64. The learned appellate court erred in law by making a fresh partition of the property, since the property ceased to be partible and the jointness did not exist after the partition was given effect to. 65. The appellate court traced a fresh map of the entire inherited property of the parties and redrew the boundaries of the plots. The appellate court took it upon itself to redraw the boundaries of the plots by creating a fresh map with the assistance of the Court Amin. The appellate court traced the map without physical inspection of the site. The exercise of reconstruction of the map of the plots of land and drawing of the lines of partition was undertaken by the learned court using the map tendered in the Commissioner report. The parties were not complicit in this process of redrawing the map and recasting the respective shares of the parties. No objections were called by the court during the entire procedure. The map and the partition so finalized by the learned appellate court was the basis of its judgment and forms part of the decree. The procedure adopted by the learned appellate court in creating the map of the property is not known to law. The substantial question of law No. IV is hence answered as follows: 66. The procedure adopted by the learned appellate court in redrawing the map of the entire property is contrary to law, and the partition and the judgment and decree of the learned appellate court on the foot of the said map are illegal and vitiated. 67. The learned trial court had found the nature of the plots of land, on the foot of the pleadings, admission of the parties and documentary evidences. The learned trial court opined that the plot nos. 2911 and 2912 were Abadi lands while plots nos. 2913 and 2914 were Bhumidhari lands. The learned appellate court upset the findings of learned trial court and recorded that all the plots were Abadi lands. 68. The learned appellate court did not assign any reasons for reversing the well reasoned and well founded findings of the learned trial court. The learned appellate court made its findings on the foot of consolidation forms which were not admissible in evidence (for good reasons cited in the earlier part of the judgment). The finding of the learned appellate court is perverse and unsustainable in law. 69. The power of the learned appellate court to reverse the findings made by the learned trial court is undisputed, but the manner of exercise of this power is guided by judicial authority in point. 70. In the case of Santosh Hazari v. Purushotam Tiwari, reported at 2001 (3) SCC 179, the Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the manner in which the finding of learned trial court can be reversed by the learned appellate court held so: 71. Admittedly, in this case, the learned appellate court did not come to "close quarters with the findings of the learned trial court" in regard to the nature of the land. Answer to substantial question No. V is as follows: 72. The learned appellate court erred in law by finding that all plots are Bhumidhari lands and reversing the finding of the learned trial court regarding the nature of the land, and the opinion of the former to the extent it is at variance with the latter on the point of the nature of land is unsustainable in law. 73. The jurisdiction of civil courts in regard to the agricultural properties ousted by virtue of Section 331 of the UPZA&LR Act. The issue of jurisdiction in the facts of this case is mixed question of fact and law. Ouster of jurisdiction was not pleaded by the defendant no.1-appellant. No jurisdictional issue was framed by the learned trial court. Though it must be added that the learned trial court found that the civil courts do not have jurisdiction to entertain the suit for partition, in view of the bar under the UPZA&LR Act. However, it is noteworthy that the point of jurisdiction was neither raised for determination before the appellate court nor pressed by the defendant no. 1-appellant at that stage. 74. I see merit in the submission of Sri Ramanand Pandey, learned counsel for the respondent that the issue of jurisdiction in the instant case could not be traversed by the plaintiff-respondent no. 1 in absence of pleadings by the defendant no. 1-appellant. The issue of jurisdiction is not a pure question of law in this case. Being a mixed question of law and fact, the same should have been pleaded and an issue was required to be framed before the learned trial court. 75. The defendant no.1-appellant cannot surprise the plaintiff-respondent no.1 by raising the issue of jurisdiction at this stage. It is well settled law that the ouster of jurisdiction of the civil court shall not be readily presumed. 76. The jurisdiction of the civil court did not stand ousted in the facts of the case. The substantial question of law no. VI is answered in the negative and against the defendant no. 1-appellant. The finding of the learned trial court in regard to jurisdiction is reversed. 77. In the wake of the preceding discussions and answers to the substantial questions of law, the judgment and decree dated 19.01.1999 and 25.01.1999 respectively, entered by learned District Judge, Siddharth Nagar, in Civil Appeal No. 40 of 1998, Kedarnath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai and another, are illegal and cannot stand. 78. The judgment and decree dated 19.01.1999 and 25.01.1999 respectively, rendered by learned District Judge, Siddharth Nagar, in Civil Appeal No. 40 of 1998, Kedarnath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai and another, are set aside. 79. Apart from the finding on the issue of jurisdiction, there is no infirmity in the judgment and decree dated 26.03.1998 and 07.04.1998 rendered by the learned II-Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division), Bansi, Siddharth Nagar in Original Suit No. 295 of 1980, Kedar Nath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai and another. 80. The judgment and decree dated 26.03.1998 and 07.04.1998 rendered by the learned II-Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division), Bansi, Siddharth Nagar in Original Suit No. 295 of 1980, Kedar Nath Vs. Ganga Prasad Rai and another, are affirmed to the extent indicated in this judgment. 81. The second appeal is allowed. Order Date: 13.09.2019 
 
Dhananjai Sharma