The Commissionerate of College Education, Andhra Pradesh, has leaked the personal data, including Aadhaar numbers, of over 64,000 past and present students, reports The Times of India .

MediaNama was able to access information contained in this leak. One of the exposed datasets shows personally identifiable information of individuals, furnishing details such as caste, gender, Aadhaar, the course they are enrolled in, college name, district etc. The data belongs to degree students enrolled in government colleges across all 13 districts of the state.

The college management collected this information to avoid duplication in scholarships and fee reimbursement, former MLC, KS Lakshmana Rao told TOI. The details were reportedly uploaded without the consent of the students. Andhra Pradesh state officials said that the mistake was unintentional, and had planned to take these details down by today. However, this information continues to be on the website at the time of publishing.

Read : New data leak allows targeting by religion, caste and locality and provides Aadhaar and bank details

Unfortunately, Andhra Pradesh has a history of leaking personal and sensitive information about its citizens. In a spate of leaks revealed this year, it has been found that the state has leaked personally identifiable information of who bought a pill for erectile dysfunction, who called for an ambulance, allowed for real-time tracking of the ambulance, pregnancy history, and much more.

Read all our stories on data breaches by the Andhra Pradesh government here.

Treating Aadhaar numbers as non-confidential can prove risky as they can be used to find information about the holder. This was proven when TRAI Chairman RS Sharma put up his Aadhaar number on Twitter , challenging people to bring harm to him. Within hours, users on Twitter were able to dig up the TRAI Chairman’s mobile number(s), Google and Yahoo email addresses, physical address, date of birth, and even the frequent flyer number which is believed to be a response to the security question for changing Sharma’s Gmail password. Multiple bank account numbers were made public.

Sharma’s stature as a high-ranking central government official may have offered him protection from any real harm through his Aadhaar number. However, college graduates in Andhra Pradesh are not going to be secure with their Aadhaar number in the public. Besides, exposure of Aadhaar number may be illegal as the Aadhaar Act says that it is illegal to publish Aadhaar numbers.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event