Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and learned

 A.P.P. for the State. 2. The petitioner is apprehending his arrest in

 connection with Nasariganj P.S. Case No. 293/2024 registered

 for the offences punishable under Sections 352, 351(2), 3(5) of

 the B.N.S. Act and Sections 66(D) , 67(D) of the I.T. Act. 3. As per prosecution case, the informant alleged

 that one of her friends introduced the petitioner to the informant

 and the friend of the informant asked the informant to give the

 mobile for calling. It is further alleged that the said friend of the

 informant made clone of the mobile of the informant by taking

 her into confidence and leaked the data of her mobile to the

 petitioner's mobile. It is further alleged that the petitioner began

 to blackmail the informant. It is further alleged that the

 petitioner prepared a fake ID of informant on social media and
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.89265 of 2024(3) dt.08-05-2025 2/3 leaked the edited photos and videos of the informant. It is

 further alleged that the petitioner called the family members and

 her relatives through various mobile numbers. It is further

 alleged that the petitioner abused and threatened the informant

 for dire consequences. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 petitioner is innocent and has committed no offence as alleged

 in the FIR. Petitioner bears no criminal antecedent. He submit

 that there is friendly relation between the petitioner and the

 informant and on several occasions, on the request of informant

 the petitioner has paid the amount of Rs.4,00,000/- during last

 three years. The petitioner began to demand his money back

 which caused annoyance to the informant. He further orally

 submits that the petitioner is the person of helpful nature and he

 used to help the informant on several occasions but now the

 informant has blackmailed the petitioner by lodging the FIR. He

 further submits that on the basis of material available on record

 by no stretch of imagination no offence is made out against the

 petitioner punishable under Sections 352, 351(2), 3(5) of the

 B.N.S. Act and Sections 66(D) , 67(D) of the I.T. Act, even the

 whole prosecution story is accepted on its face value. 5. The learned A.P.P. for the State opposed the
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.89265 of 2024(3) dt.08-05-2025 3/3 prayer for anticipatory bail of the petitioner by submitting that

 the petitioner is said to have sent the wrong message to the

 informant from his mobile through fake ID. 6. Considering the facts and circumstances of the

 case, keeping in view clean antecedent of petitioner, argument

 advanced on behalf of both sides and also taking into

 consideration the material available on record, the petitioner

 above-named, in the event of his arrest or surrender before the

 learned trial court within a period of six weeks from today, be

 released on anticipatory bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.

 10,000/- (rupees ten thousand) with two sureties of the like

 amount each to the satisfaction of learned A.C.J.M.-I, Rohtas in

 connection with Nasariganj P.S. Case No. 293/2024, subject to

 the conditions as laid down under Section 482(2) of the Cr.P.C. 7. However, the petitioner shall submit an undertaking

 that he will not send any message to the informant, failing

 which his bail bond shall liable to be cancelled. (Alok Kumar Pandey, J)
amitkumar/-