The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on May 25 issued an order against the company Mansun Consulting and its promoters, PR Sundar and Mangayarkarasi Sundar, for providing investment advice without obtaining the necessary registrations from SEBI.

PR Sundar is a trader and financial influencer (finfluencer) with over a million followers on YouTube and a large following on Twitter and Telegram as well.

As part of the settlement order, Mansun Consulting, PR Sundar, and Mangayarkarasi Sundar will pay a penalty of over ₹6 crores and are barred from trading in the stock markets for a year.

Why does this matter: The number of finfluencers has mushroomed in the last few years, and in some cases, these influencers peddle bad financial advice due to a lack of expertise, harming those at the receiving end. SEBI’s order is a strong signal to financial influencers that they don’t have a free pass and will be held liable for their actions. Earlier in March, the stock market regulator also cracked down on a YouTube pump-and-dump scheme where financial influencers manipulated share prices to their advantage.

What services did Sundar offer that was deemed illegal? SEBI explained that Sundar had a tab titled “Advisory” on his website www.prsundar.blogspot.com, that had the description “Advisory services – Daily calls on Telegram: We will be giving daily calls on what positions to take, adjustments, etc. on the Telegram messaging app.”

Upon examining the recommendations Sundar disseminated to his followers, SEBI concluded that they fall under the definition of “investment advice,” and Sundar fits the definition of “investment adviser” under SEBI Regulations, 2013.

The website also had a payment link, including a Razorpay link for those who wanted to subscribe to Sundar’s recommendations. Sundar earned over ₹4.5 crores through this service, SEBI noted.

In view of the above, SEBI concluded that Sundar and his company carried out investment advisory activities without obtaining registration of SEBI, making it a violation of the SEBI Act, 1992.

What are the terms of the settlement? Mansun Consulting, PR Sundar, and Mangayarkarasi Sundar proposed the following settlement terms, which SEBI accepted:

Sundar’s response: In response to the settlement order, Sundar tweeted:

People who believe you, need no explanation.

People who do not believe you, no amount of explanation will help.

So keeping silence, at least for some time, is the best response.

— P R Sundar (@PRSundar64) May 27, 2023

Finance Minister’s advice to citizens: The SEBI order comes a few weeks after India’s Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman urged citizens to exercise a “very strong sense of caution” against advice made by financial influencers. “If there are three or four people giving us very objective, good advice, there are seven others out of 10 who are probably driven by some other considerations,” Sitharaman remarked.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event