TEJAS KARIA, J
 I.A. 12474/2025 (U/O XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 of CPC )

 FACTUAL BACKGROUND 1. The Plaintiff is engaged in the business of marketing and sale of
 beauty, skin care, personal care and baby products for both adults and
 children which are sold in India as well as internationally. 2. Defendant No. 1 is engaged in the business of marketing and sale of
 beauty, skin care and personal care products. Defendant No. 2 is one of the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 1 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 Directors of Defendant No. 1. 3. The Plaintiff has filed the present Suit for infringement of the
 Plaintiff's copyright vesting in the artwork / trade dress / packaging / get-up
 / layout / colour combination / colour arrangement / overall representation

 , , , ("Subject Trade
 Dress") and passing off on account of the Defendants' use of the trade dress
 / packaging / get-up / layout / colour combination / colour arrangement /

 overall representation , , ,
 ("Impugned Trade Dress") which is allegedly a reproduction of,
 deceptively similar to / slavish imitation of the Subject Trade Dress used by
 the Plaintiff in respect of its range of products under the Trade Mark / brand

 'THE DERMA CO' / ' ' / ' ' ("Plaintiff's
 Marks"). 4. The Plaintiff submits that the Defendants are imitating the Subject
 Trade Dress and / or trying to come as close as posible to and / or
 surreptitiously trying to hijack the Subject Trade Dress to ride upon the
 goodwill and reputation vesting in the Plaintiff's Marks. 5. A table of comparison of the Subject Trade Dress and the Impugned
 Trade Dress is as under: 6. The learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff submitted that: white combination) and 08.11.2022 (blue-white combination).
 In their reply, the Defendants admit availability in the public
 domain since 12.07.2021 (orange-white combination),
 26.05.2023 (purple-white combination), and 16.02.2023 (blue-
 white combination). By contrast, the Plaintiff's products were
 created in 2019 and launched in 2020. 6.10. The Plaintiff uses the same colour combination for different
 products, and the dates indicate the launch of those variants,
 such as sunscreens, lotions, serums etc. The dates relied upon by
 the Defendants pertain to the launch of particular product
 variants within the cosmetic range. Therefore, the earliest use of
 the Subject Trade Dress is 2020. 6.11. The Defendants have blatantly copied the entire color scheme,
 get-up, layout and overall representation of the Subject Trade
 Dress. The Subject Trade Dress has been identically copied by
 the Defendants. In respect of the orange packaging, the outer
 packaging has almost two-thirds portion in orange on the top
 and the remaining one-third portion at the bottom in white, the
 entire inner packaging is orange in color, and the cutout at the
 bottom on the inner packaging has been identically placed in
 order to deceive customers. The Defendants' unlawful adoption
 and use of the Impugned Trade Dress in respect of their products
 amounts to infringement of copyright and passing off.
 6.12. The Defendants' claim that 'it is the dermo cosmetics approach
 to adopt a particular colour for a product across the globe'.
 Thus, it is an admitted position that Defendants admit to copying
 'industry norms', which in fact is a copy of the Subject Trade
 dress. 6.13. As the present Suit is based on the identical packaging adopted
 by the Defendants, which has been copied from that of the
 Plaintiff, the reliance on certain third-party packaging by the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 8 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 Defendants is untenable. The images relied on by the
 Defendants are merely screenshots from the internet without
 proof of actual use in the market. No product, invoice, or
 document has been filed to substantiate third-party use. It is
 settled law that infringement cannot be justified on the ground
 that others may also be infringers therefore the reliance on third-
 party use is wholly misconceived. 6.14. It is inconceivable that the Defendants, when commencing their
 business, were unaware of the Plaintiff's Products being sold
 under the Mark 'THE DERMA CO.' given the Plaintiff's
 significant market presence, high advertising spend and
 extensive consumer reach. The Defendants not only adopted a
 similar name but replicated the Subject Trade Dress in respect of
 identical products. The Defendants' adoption was neither
 independent nor coincidental, but a calculated attempt to ride
 upon the goodwill, recognition and brand equity built by the
 Plaintiff in respect of its products. 6.15. Such use, if not stopped, would encourage other entities to
 misuse the Subject Trade Dress and make undue commercial
 gains. Apart from damage to the Plaintiff's business, the
 Defendants are perpetrating fraud and deception on the unwary
 members of the trade and public by passing off their business /
 products as that of the Plaintiff's which would eventually result
 in erosion and dilution of the reputation and goodwill of the
 Plaintiff. Such erosion cannot be compensated in pecuniary
 terms while the Plaintiff continue to suffer each day on account Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 9 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 of the impugned acts of the Defendants and as such the
 Defendants should be restrained from resorting to such
 deception and unfair trade practices and competition.
 6.16. A layout / colour combination / overall representation of the
 Defendants' website identical to that of the Plaintiff's website as
 depicted below: 6.17. Reliance was placed on Colgate Palmolive Co. v. Anchor
 Health and Beauty Care (P) Ltd. , 2003 SCC OnLine Del
 1005; Cadbury India Ltd. v. Neeraj Food Products , 2007 SCC
 OnLine Del 841; Seven Towns Ltd. v. Kiddiland , 2016 SCC
 OnLine Del 5168; Marico Ltd. v. Mukesh Kumar , 2018 SCC
 OnLine Del 13412; and Marico Ltd. v. Zee Hygiene Products
 (P) Ltd., 2025 SCC OnLine Bom 2541 to submit that in
 passing off actions, the decisive factor is the overall impression
 of the colour combination, shape of container, packaging, get-
 up or layout rather than minute differences. 6.18. Reliance was placed on Colgate Palmolive Co. (supra); Seven
 Towns Ltd (supra); and Marico Ltd. vs. Zee (supra) to submit
 that even though monopoly cannot be claimed over a single
 colour, substantial reproduction of a distinctive trade dress that
 has acquired secondary meaning is likely to mislead unwary
 consumers and amounts to passing off. The subsequent entrant
 must carve out its own independent identity and not ride on the
 goodwill of the prior user. 6.19. Reliance was placed on Heinz Italia v. Dabur India Ltd. , Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 11 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 ( 2007) 6 SCC 1 and S. Syed Mohideen v. P. Sulochana Bai ,
 (2016) 2 SCC 683 to submit that the foundation of passing off
 lies in prior use and goodwill. The classical trinity of passing
 off goodwill, misrepresentation and damage guides the inquiry.
 6.20. Reliance was placed on Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai
 Shah, (2002) 3 SCC 65; Midas Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd. v.
 Sudhir Bhatia , (2004) 3 SCC 90; Pankaj Goel v. Dabur India
 Ltd. , 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1744; and Zee Hygiene Products
 (P) Ltd., (supra) to submit that where deception is shown,
 injunction normally follows. Mere delay in bringing an action
 is not fatal unless coupled with acquiescence. 6.21. Reliance was also placed on KRBL Ltd. v. Praveen Kumar
 Buyyani, 2025 SCC OnLine Del 198 and Cadbury India Ltd. (supra) to submit that likelihood of confusion, judged from the
 standpoint of an average consumer with imperfect recollection,
 suffices. The focus should be on similarities rather than
 dissimilarities, and deliberate copying raises a presumption of
 deception. Even without side-by-side comparison, if the overall
 idea or impression is copied, the same results in infringement.
 6.22. Reliance was further placed on Sanjay Soya (P) Ltd. v. Narayani Trading Co., 2021 SCC OnLine Bom 407 and Shree
 Nath Heritage Liquor Pvt. Ltd. v. Allied Blender & Distillers
 Pvt. Ltd., 2015 SCC OnLine Del 10164 to submit that
 copyright protects the expression of an idea and not the idea
 itself, and registration is not a prerequisite. Protection arises
 automatically on creation, and infringement can be direct or Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 12 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 indirect, proved through substantial similarity in protectable
 elements. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDENTS 7. The learned Senior Counsel for the Defendants made the following
 submissions: The Subject Trade Dress, being a mere juxtaposition of two
 colours in a horizontal or vertical plane, does not reflect any
 artistic skill or individual expression and is, in any case,
 incapable of being characterised as original. A colour
 combination simpliciter cannot constitute an 'artistic work'
 under Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act unless there is an
 identifiable element of creative authorship. 7.5. The Plaintiff's Products and the Defendants' Products are sold
 on the basis of the chemicals and combination of the chemicals,
 the intended purpose, name of the company, price of the product
 and such other aspects and not on the basis of the trade dress.
 The type of the nature of products in question is such that the
 consumers are likely to purchase the same only on the basis of
 the contents and the specific ingredients present therein, and
 based on their skin concerns, and not solely on the basis of the
 packaging. As regards, the goodwill, the Plaintiff has claimed
 sales turnover, advertisement in respect of the Plaintiff itself and
 not its subsidiary Derma Co., which is selling the products under Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 17 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 the Subject Trade Dress. Mere combination of two colours
 which are taken from public domain would never be subject
 matter of a copyright that can be protected under Section 13 , 14 , 51 of the Copyright Act. 7.6. As per the data furnished by the Plaintiff for the year 2020, the
 sales turnover of all the three two-colour toned products of
 Derma Co was ₹13 lacs and in the year 2021 it was ₹18.82 lacs.
 As against this the Defendants' sales turnover for Financial Year
 2021-22 was ₹2,87,98,420/-. The Plaintiff and the Defendants
 have co-existed in the market for a period of more than 4 years.
 During these years if there was any likelihood of confusion, it
 should have been reflected in a drop of sales of the Plaintiff's
 Products. On the contrary, there is an increase in the sale of the
 Plaintiff. 7.7. The Defendants have invested significantly in building its own
 brand, including an approximate turnover of ₹63 crores and over
 ₹22 crores spent on marketing and promotion in the last
 financial year. The Defendants' Products enjoy high ratings on
 online platforms, indicating their own independent goodwill and
 customer base built on product quality. Additionally, it is an
 issue to be tried as to who is the first and prior user of the two
 colour tone trade dress and whether trade dress passes the test of
 originality. 7.8. The Defendants have adopted the Impugned Trade Dress in
 good faith, based on dermatological category conventions and
 market research, and not with the intent to imitate or cause Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 18 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 confusion with the Plaintiff's Products. The use of such colour
 combinations is widespread and rooted in honest trade practices
 within the skincare industry. Multiple skincare brands utilize
 similar colours based on widely accepted colour theory. For
 instance: Turquoise is commonly used for acne products,
 symbolizing calmness, clarity, healing, and cleanliness. Orange
 is widely associated with sunscreen products or radiant skin due
 to its link to sunlight, energy, and warmth, making it intuitive for
 consumers. It also provides strong shelf appeal and aligns with
 themes of vitality and optimism. Given the industry-wide usage
 of these colour schemes, the Plaintiff cannot claim to be the
 originator or exclusive user of any specific combination and thus
 cannot claim infringement. Therefore, the Plaintiff cannot claim
 Distinctiveness or acquisition of secondary meaning
 independent of the Plaintiff's Marks. The Plaintiff has failed to
 demonstrate that the Subject Trade Dress has acquired
 distinctiveness and secondary meaning in the market.
 7.9. The Defendants are circulating the Impugned Trade Dress to
 proposed customer since 26.12.2020 and publishing their
 products in public domain such as YouTube since the year 2021- 22. The Defendants have sold the product since the year 2021
 openly extensively and continuously. The Plaintiff was using
 one different label up to March- April 2021 and the Subject
 Trade Dress is at the best adopted under different brand name /
 description since April 2021 onwards. Thus, it is highly disputed Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 19 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 triable issue in the present case that which party is the prior
 adopter and use of the Subject Trade Dress. 7.10. There is material distinction between proprietary right in a brand
 name / wordmark vis-à-vis get up / trade dress. There can hardly
 be passing off by get up alone. The Plaintiff must prove that the
 get up concerned indicates the Plaintiff's Products and no one
 else's. A trader who introduces a new feature into the get up
 does not thereby acquire any proprietary interest in it, so as to be
 able to prevent its use by competitors, until it has become so
 identified with his goods that its use by others is calculated to
 deceive. No case can be made merely by showing an imitation
 of the parts of the get up of products which are common to the
 trade. 7.11. Without prejudice, the best case of the Plaintiff of adoption and
 use of the two tone colour scheme for the product is of the year
 2020-21 vis-à-vis the adoption and use of the two-tone colour
 scheme by the Defendants since the year 2020-21, within the
 short span of few months after the Plaintiff's actual use of the
 product in the market under the Subject Trade Dress. Therefore,
 in absence of specific pleading by the Plaintiff in the present
 case to the effect that within the short span of a few months by
 which the Defendants launched their products under the
 Impugned Trade Dress in the market, the Subject Trade Dress
 had already acquired the sufficient goodwill, the Plaintiff fails to
 make out a prima-facie case. 7.12. It is trite law that a relevant consideration for grant of interim
 injunction is whether the defendant is yet to commence his
 enterprise or whether he has already been doing so. In the latter
 case, considerations is somewhat different from those that apply
 to a case where defendant is yet to commence his enterprise.
 Status quo ante is not permissible at least in the case of passing
 off action and in the case of infringement of copyright where
 'originality' of the artistic work is prima-facie not established.
 7.13. Both the Plaintiff and the Defendants have been coexisting in
 the market for over 4 years, offering skincare products under
 their respective trade dresses. The business operations of the
 Defendants, the contractual obligations, and the reputation of the
 Defendants would be adversely affected if an ad-interim
 injunction is granted in favour of the Plaintiff. Once the
 Defendants are out of the market, there is no chance to regain
 the lost business, the reputation and the market standing.
 7.14. Any loss suffered by the Plaintiff can be adequately
 compensated by a monetary award. The Plaintiff has not
 demonstrated any comparable prejudice that it would suffer in
 the absence of interim relief, particularly when it has itself
 delayed the initiation of proceedings despite having full
 knowledge of the Defendants' Products and the Impugned Trade
 Dress since at least August 2024. 7.15. Reliance was placed on decision of this Court in Britannica
 Industries Ltd. V. ITC Ltd., FAO (OS) (COMM) 77/2016 and
 CM Nos. 33194/2016, Samsonite Corp V. Vijay Sales , 1998 Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 21 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 SCC OnLine Del 324, ITC Ltd. V. CG Foods (India) Pvt. Ltd.,
 2021 SCC OnLine Kar 14700 to submit that mere similarities in
 packaging or get up are not sufficient; the Plaintiff must
 establish that the public associates the trade dress exclusively
 with its goods. 7.16. Reliance was placed on decisions in Uniply Industries Ltd. V.
 Unicorn Plywood Pvt. Ltd. , (2001) 5 SCC 95 to submit that the
 court should be cautious while granting an injunction which
 would affect the trade and business of another person using an
 identical mark. 7.17. Reliance was also placed on the decision in Himalaya Drug Co. V. SBL. Ltd., 2010 SCC OnLine Del 2206 to submit that where
 the parties have co-existed in the market for a substantial period,
 the plaintiff must demonstrate concrete evidence of actual
 confusion in the minds of consumers. Mere apprehension or
 theoretical likelihood is insufficient and that in cases involving
 long standing market presence by both parties, the absence of
 credible proof of deception or misidentification is determinative.
 ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 8. The principles upon which interim injunction is granted is well
 settled. The prayer for grant of an interim injunction is at a stage when the
 existence of the legal right asserted by the plaintiff and its alleged violation
 are both contested, uncertain and remain uncertain till they are established at
 the trial on evidence. The object of the interim injunction, is to protect the
 plaintiff against injury by violation of his rights for which he could not be
 adequately compensated in damages recoverable in the action if the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 22 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 uncertainty were resolved in his favour at the trial. The need for such
 protection must be weighed against the corresponding need of the defendant
 to be protected against injury resulting from his having been prevented from
 exercising his own legal rights for which he could not be adequately
 compensated. The Court in restraining a defendant from exercising what the
 defendant considers his legal right and what the plaintiff would like to be
 prevented, puts into the scales, as a relevant consideration whether the
 defendant is yet to commence his enterprise or whether he has already been
 doing so as for determining the grant of an interim injunction. 9. The conditions for grant of interim injunction under Order XXXIX
 Rules 1 and 2 of CPC are prima facie case, balance of convenience and
 irreparable injury. To assess whether the Defendants are liable to be
 injuncted pending the Suit for the alleged action of infringement of
 copyright in the Subject Trade Dress, the Plaintiff has to fulfil these three
 conditions. In applying these tests, the question of 'deceptive similarity'
 between the Subject Trade Dress and the Impugned Trade Dress assumes
 significance, keeping in view (i) the class of persons who are likely to be
 confused or deceived, and (ii) the manner in which similarities are to be
 evaluated in law. 10. It is well recognised that 'perceptions', be it ocular, mental or aural,
 can vary based on age, gender, social and economic exposure, intellect and
 other such factors. The person in this case must be understood, keeping in
 view the nature of the goods sold, the circumstances of sale, the class of
 persons to whom the product is sold and other factors. 11. The relevant public for the products in question consists of consumers
 of skincare products such as sunscreens, serums and lotions. The Plaintiff's Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 23 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 Products and the Defendants' Products are specialised formulations intended
 to serve specific purposes, as is evident from the product descriptions. Both
 the Subject Trade Dress and the Impugned Trade Dress claim to contain
 differential chemical compositions, varying percentages of active
 ingredients, recommendations for distinct skin types, and assurances of
 particular protection or benefits that the product would confer on the user.
 The trade dresses of both the Parties prominently display components like
 kojic acid, hyaluronic acid, niacinamide along with their percentage used.
 The very manner in which these details are presented on the trade dresses
 reflect that the purchaser is expected to evaluate them and choose
 accordingly. 12. A variation in composition or absence of a particular ingredient is
 sufficient to alter the consumer's purchasing decision. When the
 composition itself is distinct, the product ceases to be the same in substance,
 and the consumer's choice is thus guided by this fundamental difference.
 The decision to purchase is, therefore, guided primarily by the formulation
 and claimed efficacy, making it unlikely that the similarity in trade dresses
 alone would mislead an average purchaser. 13. It is also pertinent to note that the Impugned Trade Dress does not
 carry the brand name 'THE DERMA CO.' The Defendants market their
 products under the brand name 'DERMATOUCH', which is displayed
 conspicuously on the Impugned Trade Dress. The Defendants' variants such
 as 'SPF 60 PA+++ Broad Spectrum Sunscreen' or 'Mild Cleansing Lotion'
 indicate that the consumer would make the purchasing decision depending
 on the degree of protection the concerned Spectrum Sunscreen would offer,
 and the degree of skin tolerance, etc. Alongside this, the description of the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 24 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 Plaintiff's Products such as 'Hyaluronic Sunscreen Stick' or '1% Kojic Acid
 Daily Face Wash' is conspicuously placed in the coloured portion, thereby
 giving the Subject Trade Dress a usage identity on the basis of which a
 consumer would be making a purchasing decision. While the Defendants
 may also be employing a two-tone colour scheme, the brand name,
 percentage of the ingredients involved and dermatological consideration and
 recommendations of the medical practitioners differ. 14. It is the interplay of the Mark 'THE DERMA CO.' with the
 descriptive content on the Subject Trade Dress that provides the distinct
 identity to the Plaintiff's Products, and not the mere use of two-tone colour
 arrangements. Therefore, when it is taken into account that the features of
 the product, its composition, and its intended purpose all of which are stated
 on both the Plaintiff's Products and the Defendants' Products, the likelihood
 of confusion does not prima facie arise so as to justify an interim injunction
 against the Defendants. 15. It would also be useful to refer to Colgate Palmolive Co. Ltd. (supra)
 relevant Paragraph of which is reproduced below: 16. It is also pertinent to note that as stated in Professor Wadlow's
 summary at Paragraph Nos. 8-133 of The Law of Passing Off (4th edition)
 that market reality is as such that 'goods are almost always referred to by
 their trade names, not their get-up'. The relevant paragraph is reproduced
 below: [Emphasis supplied] Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 26 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 17. In the judgment of Division Bench of this Court in Kellogg Company
 v. Pravin Kumar Bhadabhai. , 1996 PTC (16) 187, the contention of similar
 getup or trade dress was held not to be tenable. The dispute related to the
 plaintiff's sale of cornflake with cartons having the description inscribed as
 KELLOGG'S CORNFLAKE. The respondent was selling cornflake using a
 carton more or less similar in size, but with the title AMIS ARISTO CORN
 FLAKES written just at the place where the appellant's display the words
 KELLOG'S CORNFLAKE. The Division Bench came to the conclusion that
 the principal of fading memory or imperfect recollection should not be
 pressed too far and the goods in question sold to people belonging to middle
 class or upper middle class, who are fairly educated, has to be tested
 accordingly. It was held that there was no chance of deception. The Division
 Bench while dealing with the aspect of trade dress referred to the
 observations made in Supers v. Specters, (1953) 70 RPC 173 as under: [Emphasis supplied] 18. The Division Bench in Kellogg Company (supra) further referred to
 the decision of the House of Lords in Schewappers Ltd. v. Gibbens, (1905)
 22 RPC, wherein the appellant was selling Soda Water in bottles, with a
 neck label around them, the body of the label bring of chocolate colour with Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 27 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 a white border and a red medallion in the centre of the label. The
 respondents, subsequently, sold soda water in bottles with a somewhat
 similar neck lable round them in some colour and with a central red
 medallion. However, appellants' labels showed 'Scheweppe's soda water'
 printed on them in white characters while respondents' contained the name
 'Gibbens Soda Water'. It was held by the House of Lords that a fraudulent
 intent cannot be presumed in spite of the similarities in the bottles, labels
 colour and medallion because the distinguishing feature of name adopted by
 defendants showed that they had no intention to deceive purchasers. Lord
 Halsbury LC observed-- Lord Halsbury also said that it was 'ridiculous' to apply the principle
 of similarity in trade dress in such a situation. It was held that the name of
 'Gibbens' was so plainly placed upon the bottle as it could possibly be and it
 was in the place where 'Schweppes' was on the bottle of the appellant, and
 there was no intention to deceive. 19. In Burford V. Mowling (1908) 8 CLR 212 the High Court of
 Australia held that defendants were entitled to sell their soap in boxes which
 were the same size shape material and colour to the boxes in which the
 plaintiff sold their soap as there was a difference in name. In Parkdale Pty
 Limited V. Euxu Pty Limited (1982) 149 CLR 191, Gibbs C.J. stressed the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 28 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 importance of the use of the difference in brand name to distinguish goods
 of similar appearance. 20. In Red Bull Gmbh V. Mean Fiddler (2004) E.W.H.C. 991 Lewis J.
 refused to grant an interlocutory injunction against the defendant which sold
 an energy drink as a substitute for the plaintiff's product even though he
 thought there was a striking similarity in the design of the two cans because
 the brand names Red Bull and Sinergy were prominent in each of the cans
 and the defendant gave certain undertakings in relation to 'switch selling'. 21. In Rizla V. Bryant & May 1986 R.P.C. 389 (Per Walton J) where the
 only significant similarity in the parties' pack of cigarettes was the colour
 scheme. The plaintiff 'Rizla' sold papers for rolling cigarettes with the three
 colours blue, green and red corresponding to the weight of the paper and
 whether it was cut at the corners. The defendants introduced corresponding
 packets of papers adopting the same colour coding as the plaintiffs, but with
 otherwise distinct get-up and under the brand name 'Swan'. Though
 evidence was led to suggest that customers used to ask for plaintiff's goods
 as a packet of reds, blues, or greens, it was not sufficient to establish that the
 reliance on 'colour' was to denote the plaintiff's brand as opposed to the
 type of paper. The distinct brand name 'Swan' used by the defendants also
 contributed to lowering the risk of the likelihood of deception. Walton J,
 while refusing to grant interlocutory order of temporary injunction held that
 where two or more colours are used separately for goods from the same
 manufacturer, the natural inference may be that the colours serve to
 differentiate different kinds, flavours or qualities rather than to denote the
 trade source. 22. It is also a trite law that mere adoption is insufficient unless it is
 demonstrated that the Subject Trade Dress has acquired distinctiveness in
 the eyes of the public. The requirement of secondary meaning is crucial, as
 colour combinations are registrable and protectable only when consumers
 have come to associate them exclusively with a single source. In the present
 case the Plaintiff has not furnished any material to prima facie establish that
 elements claimed by the Plaintiff as its Subject Trade Dress, namely a two-
 tone panel of colours with product description in the upper panel and brand
 name in the lower panel have acquired a secondary meaning pointing
 exclusively to its goods. 23. It is also pertinent to note that the Plaintiff has not furnished any
 material to establish that the Subject Trade Dress had acquired
 distinctiveness exclusively associated with the Plaintiff particularly at the
 time of the Defendants' adoption of the Impugned Trade Dress. In Himalaya Drug Co. v. SBL Ltd. , 2010 SCC OnLine Del 2206 it was
 observed that: [Emphasis supplied] 24. Therefore, the total of all the considerations points out that firstly, the
 segment wherein the Plaintiff and the Defendants conduct their business,
 the class of purchasers is reasonably informed and ingredient-attentive;
 purchase decisions are materially driven by percentages, indications, and
 dermatological recommendations not merely by packaging colours.
 Secondly, the Plaintiff's Mark 'THE DERMA CO.' and the Defendants'
 Mark 'DERMATOUCH' are visually and phonetically distinct and clearly
 displayed on the trade dresses, enabling consumers to distinguish between
 the Plaintiff's Products and the Defendants' Products. Thirdly, surrounding
 circumstances include a four-year market co-existence with no pleaded
 instances of confusion. These circumstances, therefore, at this stage do not
 warrant an injunctive relief. 25. As regards the claim of passing off, it is also a settled law that in a
 passing off action the plaintiff must prove the trinity of goodwill,
 misrepresentation and damage. Therefore, the legal onus in a passing off
 action is on the Plaintiff who must prove, as on the date of the Defendants'
 adoption, subsisting goodwill in the get-up, a misrepresentation by the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 31 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 Defendants, and a likelihood of damage. Considering the material placed on
 record, goodwill in the two-tone labels is yet to be established. 26. Accordingly, when the essential requirements of passing off i.e.,
 goodwill, misrepresentation, and likelihood of damage are tested on the facts
 in the present case, the Plaintiff falls short of establishing them at this stage.
 The goodwill in the two-tone labels is not shown to have been exclusively
 associated with the Plaintiff. 27. At this stage, the over-extension of proprietary rights would amount
 to creating a monopoly in features without first examining their
 distinctiveness, originality and secondary meaning. The Defendants have
 specifically raised the plea of existence of similar art works and use by other
 entities, and such objections go to the root of the claim of originality.
 Therefore, originality of the Subject Trade Dress as claimed by the Plaintiff
 is itself a matter that requires trial. Likewise, the question of prior adoption
 and use between the parties is also a disputed question of fact. These aspects
 can only be examined and determined on evidence during trial. Any
 outcome dehors such determination is neither supported by principle nor
 consonant with the balance that Intellectual Property Rights Law seeks to
 maintain between rewarding innovation and preserving free competition. 28. At this stage, restraining the Defendants would amount to interdicting
 a business, which has been conducted openly for several years without
 demonstrable prejudice to the Plaintiff. 29. Therefore, taking into account the prolonged co-existence of the
 Parties in the market, the disputed questions surrounding originality, prior
 use and distinctiveness of the Subject Trade Dress requiring determination,
 and the balance of convenience, which lies in favour of allowing the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 32 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35 Defendants to continue their business till such questions are determined at
 trial, no case for grant of interim injunction is made out. This Application is,
 accordingly, dismissed. CS(COMM) 483/2025 30. List for further proceedings on 19.01.2026. TEJAS KARIA, J

 SEPTEMBER 26, 2025
 hk Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 483/2025 Page 33 of 33 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.09.2025 16:57:35