The Finance Minister called for the abolition of the angel tax in her budget speech on July 23. The move is intended to promote investment in the Indian startup ecosystem and encourage innovation and employment generation.

The “ angel tax ” requires unlisted startups to pay a tax of about 30 percent on any investment it receives by issuing shares to investors at a price higher than the fair market value (FMV) of those shares. It refers to section 56(2)(viib) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, which was initially intended to prevent tax avoidance and money laundering. However, the tax has been criticised for hindering early-stage investments for startups.

The government also scrapped the controversial two percent equalisation levy on overseas e-commerce companies and technology companies.

The latest economic survey states that the next big challenge for the country is to ensure ‘Digital Financial Inclusion (DFI),’ which involves connecting the financially excluded with formal financial services suited to their needs. The government considers Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) to be an important part of integrating excluded communities into the formal financial market. Digital credit is also tagged as a useful tool allowing individuals and firms to access economic opportunities.

Operating on this logic, the Finance Minister made some crucial announcements in her Budget Speech on July 23. She stated that the government planned on using DPI to digitally record the details of farmers and their lands in three years span. The initiative would begin with a digital crop survey for Kharif crops in 400 districts, covering 6 crore farmers and their lands. The government would also issue Jan Samarth-based Kisan Credit Cards in 5 states.

The Digital Crop Survey (DCS) aims to create a database of crops sown across all the farmlands in the country during the different agriculture seasons. The government had announced the introduction of DPI into agriculture in the previous budget , intended to introduce a variety of information services for farmers including market intelligence, crop planning, and access to credit.

The Data Protection Board (DPB) was allotted Rs. 2 crore in the budget, reported the Hindustan Times . The Board, which is supposed to direct data fiduciaries to take remedial measures in case of data breaches or complaints, is a crucial part of the Digital Personal Data Protection Act. Of this ₹2 crore, ₹4 lakh was allotted for capital expenditure and ₹ 1.96 crore for revenue expenditure.

The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has also been allocated Rs.38.76 crore to set up a system to detect and block spoof international calls that show an Indian number, termed the Centralized International Out Roamer (CIOR).

However, the allocation of funds was criticised by Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia Pacific Policy Director at digital rights group Access Now, as being insufficient.

We have a data protection act, but it looks like the regulator is going to be stillborn. The data protection board is included in MEITy's demand. But a grand total of barely INR 2 crore (By contrast, CERT-In's expenditure is in the 3 digit crore range).

Similarly, he also pointed out that the IndiaAI Mission had been granted 500 crore this year, a far cry from the initially announced 10,000 crore outlay.

An IndiaAI mission has been funded in MEITY – around 500 crore

Chima also drew attention to data collection and surveillance projects like ASTR that received grants under the budget.

Speaking of databases and surveillance, it looks like the Department of Telecom has fun, totally non-ominous things they want Parliament to fund. Namely an "Artificial Intelligence and Face Recognition Powered Solution for Telecom SIM Subscriber Verification (ASTR)"…

Artificial Intelligence and Facial Recognition Powered Solution for Telecom Sim Subscriber Verification or ASTR is a Facial Recognition Technology (FRT) system built by the government to prevent scammers from acquiring multiple SIM cards through fraudulent means. MediaNama had previously reported on the various concerns about the system’s accuracy, especially due to an incident in Delhi, where a resident’s father was unable to get a replacement SIM card because his face did not match the photo taken during the original SIM purchase 15 years ago. Other concerns include the security of the collected facial data, in light of cyber attacks on government and police databases which led to the personal information of citizens being leaked.

Have something to add to the story? Is there a story you would like us to cover? Leave an anonymous tip here , or ask us to file an RTI here .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event