Update on August 27, 10:00 AM: Per a press release by the Paris Judiciary Tribunal, Telegram CEO Pavel Durov is a part of an open judicial investigation that began on July 8 2024, following a preliminary inquiry by the Paris prosecutor’s club. The French authorities opened up the investigation on charges including :

French President Emmanuel Macron has also clarified the circumstances of Durov’s arrest on X. He explains that this was “in no way a political decision” adding that it is up to the judges to rule on the matter.

I have seen false information regarding France following the arrest of Pavel Durov. France is deeply committed to freedom of expression and communication, to innovation, and to the spirit of entrepreneurship. It will remain so. In a state governed by the rule of law,…

Original post:

Day after Telegram CEO Pavel Durov’s arrest at a French airport for allowing money laundering, drug trafficking and other illegal activities on the messaging platform, the Indian government is investigating the company for extortion and gambling, according to a report by Moneycontrol. The Ministry of Home Affairs’ Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre (I4C) and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) are jointly conducting this probe, an unnamed government official said, adding that the government could decide to block the platform in India.

Earlier on August 25, French authorities detained Pavel Durov at a French airport, according to a Reuters report . The French authorities reportedly arrested Durov as a part of a police investigation into a wide range of criminal activities allowed on Telegram due to a lack of moderators. Soon after, the company released a statement on X (formerly Twitter) stating that their CEO had “nothing to hide” and the platform was compliant with EU laws, including the Digital Services Act. The company further argued that it is “absurd to claim that a platform or its owner are responsible for [the] abuse of that platform.”

⚖️ Telegram abides by EU laws, including the Digital Services Act — its moderation is within industry standards and constantly improving. ✈️ Telegram's CEO Pavel Durov has nothing to hide and travels frequently in Europe. 😵‍💫 It is absurd to claim that a platform or its owner…

This isn’t the first time that Telegram has been in the news for criminal activities on the platform. In 2019, South Korean authorities discovered an online sex ring on the platform. Those involved in this sex ring blackmailed over 70 women (including minors) into filming sexual content which was then sold on Telegram chat rooms, according to a Korean Herald report .

Similarly, in India, the MeitY issued a notice to Telegram and other social media platforms to take down Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) from their platforms on the Indian internet in October 2023. The Indian ministry took action after the Economic Times reached out to senior IT ministry officials for comments about CSAM on Telegram and other platforms.

Besides sexual content, users have also been spreading copyrighted materials on the platform without the copyright holder’s permission. In the past couple of years, media organizations like India Today Group and Jagaran Prakashan , and also coaching institutes like Allen and Made Easy have filed cases against the platform for copyright infringement.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event