Update on September 6:

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on September 02 released detailed guidelines to regulate digital lending. This is a follow-up to the framework announced on August 10 (in original story below).

What’s new?

Original story published on August 11:

The Reserve Bank of India on August 10 released a new regulatory framework to govern digital lending including lending through online platforms and mobile apps “based on the principle that lending business can be carried out only by entities that are either regulated by the Reserve Bank or entities permitted to do so under any other law.” The framework adopts many of the recommendations made by the Working Group on Digital Lending (WGDL), which presented its report in November 2021.

“Recently, innovative methods of designing and delivery of credit products and their servicing through Digital Lending route have acquired prominence. However, certain concerns have also emerged which, if not mitigated, may erode the confidence of members of public in the digital lending ecosystem. The concerns primarily relate to unbridled engagement of third parties, mis-selling, breach of data privacy, unfair business conduct, charging of exorbitant interest rates, and unethical recovery practices.” — RBI press release

RBI has classified digital lenders into three categories:

RBI has accepted the following recommendations by the Working Group for immediate implementation, which are to be followed by REs, their LSPs, Digital Lending Apps (DLAs) of REs, DLAs of LSPs engaged by REs:

RBI noted that the following recommendations have been accepted in principle, but require further examination before they can be implemented:

RBI noted that the following recommendations by the Working Group require broader engagement with the Government of India and other stakeholders in view of the “technical complexities, setting up of institutional mechanism, and legislative interventions”:

Over the last three years, hundreds of unauthorised digital lending apps have popped up on Google’s Play Store targeting vulnerable Indian borrowers, charging them exorbitant interest rates, and resorting to extortion and blackmail tactics to collect payments. In more than a few cases , these practices have resulted in borrowers committing suicide.

Generally, third-party loan marketplaces and apps which work with regulated banks and non-bank lenders have to follow strict guidelines on interest rates and collection practices, but many of the predatory lending apps that have emerged in the last year either work with small non-bank lenders, which are licensed by the RBI, or they work outside any rules or regulatory framework.

Against this backdrop, the Reserve Bank of India constituted a Working Group (WG) in January to study all aspects of digital lending so that an appropriate regulatory approach can be put in place.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event