On 18th December 2024, I did one AI ChatGPT workshop for 3 hours by So called Jatan Shah from his company Skillnation. On the workshop he taught 3 AI tools for 1 hour, 2 hours he was selling his promotional master class. As I was not aware of thier activities before and I was satisfied to learn 3 AI tools I willing to join his masterclass course which is cost 14396 rs, which we can pay in 2 installment. I have done my 1st installation payment of 7198 rs in the link send by Mr Jatan shah. I have posted the workshop certificate in Linkedin and below my post from skillnation posted that I supposed to get an offer. They asked me to contact this no [protected]. When I contacted them through whatsapp they told as I paid already 1st installment I need to pay ony 5398 rs total in UPI id [protected]@okhdfcbank to complete my 2nd installment. As I completed my 2nd instalment in orientation class I not paid in the link. But as per promise python course and Automatex tool added to my account and not sent by mail also. Now next day they told it is server crash and offer is only valid for 19th december and I paid 1st installment 18th so I need to pay again 1800 ra to complete 7198 rs. I paid 1800 rs in same upi id. But still no python courses and bonuses not added in my account. The next day they told as I paid through installment they are unable to add my course, they would refund my installment amount and I need to pay 14936 rs at a time and they asked me new mail id. I asked for refund of previous all isntallment. they only paid me back 2000 rs. Now when I asked for rest of money they told once you pay 14396 rs we will pay you back 12396 rs rest amount and we will activate all the courses Jatan shah promised to give. In workshop basically he told both at a time payment or isntallment payment both people can get all the bonuses. They took money for one course two times and not activated the course. They don't have refund policy and lastly when I asked them for refund and threat them I will go to take legal action against them they told do whatever you want. Constantly they are changing thier website. I am adding my transactions also what I did with them https://skillnation.in/ https://join.navinparmar.in/ https://www.linkedin.com/in/shah-jatan/ https://getautomatex.com/contact-us/ Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)