What cannot be permitted can be regulated ? This seems to be

 the Mantra of the Central and State Governments. But the rapid

 growth of e-commerce continues to present challenges to the State

 and Central Governments in the trade of on-line pharmacy. The

 protests made, when Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal, entered in

http://www.judis.nic.in 5 general retail, are being continued in retail medicine. The Central

 Government continues to lag in passing a specific legislation aimed at

 the On-line pharmacy industry. 2. The petitioner is an Association of the Tamilnadu Chemists and

 Druggists, represented by its General Secretary and the Writ Petition

 has been filed for blocking the link of all such websites from India, who

 are doing on-line sale of Schedule H, H1 and Schedule X medicines in

 violation of Rules 65 and 97 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945

 (in short "D & C Rules"), till the licenses are granted to sell medicines

 through on-line. 3. At the outset, there was a preliminary objection raised by the

 respondents contending that the Writ Petition is barred by the

 principles of res judicata. Earlier, the very same petitioner had filed

 W.P.No.28325 of 2016 for an identical prayer directing the

 respondents to block the link of all such websites from India who are

 selling the on-line medicines. The said Writ Petition was taken up

 along with another Writ Petition No.5611 of 2016, which was filed for

 banning of such websites from selling Schedule H medicines in

 violation of the D and C Rules and the following common order was

http://www.judis.nic.in 6 passed on 20.12.2016 by a Division Bench of this Court : 4. The above Writ Petitions were closed on the undertaking

 given by the Central Government/first respondent therein that the

 Rules will be published in the public domain within a period of three

 months. Albeit, only the draft Rules have been published as on date. 5. The contention of the petitioner is that the Central

 Government has not passed the rules and regulations, but the

 respondents continue to sell the medicines through on-line. Therefore,

 permitting sale of drugs through Internet/on-line defeats the purpose

 of the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (in short "D &

http://www.judis.nic.in 7 C Act") and the D & C Rules framed thereunder to safeguard the public

 interest, which regulates the manufacture and sale to ensure quality

 and availability under prescribed storage conditions by qualified

 pharmacists. It is averred in the petition that there are provisions

 under the D & C Act for recalling drugs due to very serious side-effects

 from the market and this would be possible only if the medicines are

 sold by the pharmacists, who are aware of the movement of the

 medicines till it reaches the patients. There is no guarantee for data

 privacy if the medicines are sold on-line. Disease and treatment are

 the private information of the patients, which cannot be made

 available for data mining and for commercial use by on-line

 pharmacists. 6. The contention of the private respondents in this regard is

 that for the very same grounds, the earlier Writ Petitions were filed

 and disposed of as above and the on-line trading of medicines is

 continuing. The Division Bench which was conscious of the fact, had

 only granted time to the first respondent to bring the Rules in a time-

 bound manner. It is only thereafter, the private respondents would

 get/obtain licence. It is very specifically argued that the Division Bench

 of this Court did not ban the continuance of on-line selling of medicines

http://www.judis.nic.in 8 despite being aware of the prayer made in the Writ Petitions and the

 fact that the Rules were not in place and the respondents would

 contend that only if the Rules are notified, there can be compliance of

 the same. 7. While so, when there is no new cause of action that arose

 for filing of the present Writ Petition from the date of the disposal of

 the earlier Writ Petitions till the filing of the present Writ Petition, the

 present Writ Petition would be barred by principle of res judicata. 8. Mr.P.S.Raman, learned Senior counsel appearing for the

 eighth respondent, placed his reliance on the decision of the Supreme

 Court reported in AIR 1961 SC 1457 (DARYAO AND OTHERS VS

 STATE OF U.P AND OTHERS) to highlight as to whether the rule of

 res judicata is merely a technical rule or it is based on high public

 policy. Learned Senior Counsel contended that as expressed by the

 Apex Court in (2008) 1 SC 560 [UDYAMI EVAM KHADI

 GRAMODYOG WELFARE SANSTHA AND ANOTHER -VS- STATE

 OR UTTAR PRADESH AND OTHERS], a writ remedy is an equitable

 one. A person approaching a superior Court must come with a pair of

 clean hands and not only should not suppress any material fact, but

http://www.judis.nic.in 9 also should not take recourse to the legal proceedings over and over

 again, which amounts to abuse of the process of law. The above said

 decision was pressed into service to highlight the fact that it has been

 deliberately stated in paragraph 1 of the affidavit filed by the petitioner

 that earlier Writ Petition No.28325 of 2016 was filed for the very same

 relief and the same was said to be pending, when the said petition was

 dismissed long before the present petition is filed. 9. On the very same issue of res judicata and abuse of

 process of law, Mr.Sathish Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel

 appearing for the seventh respondent submitted that the law laid down

 in 1998 (1) CTC 66 [RANIPET MUNICIPALIATY, REP BY ITS

 CORNER AND SPECIAL OFFICER, RANIPET -VS- M.SHAMSHEERKHAN] would aptly apply to the present case,

 wherein, the petitioner has resorted to encourage the multiplicity of

 proceedings amounting to abuse of process of law. It is useful to

 extract the following passage in paragraph 9 of the said order. “9. It is this conduct of the respondent that is attacked by
 the petitioner as abuse of process of Court. What is 'abuse of the
 process of the Court'? Of course, for the term 'abuse of the
 process of the Court' the Code of Civil Procedure has not given
 any definition. A party to a litigation is said to be guilty of abuse
 of process of the Court any of the following cases:- 10. It is pointed out by the learned Senior Counsel that the

 earlier writ petition, which had verbatim the same prayer, was closed

 with a direction to the Central Government to formulate the rules in a

 time-bound manner. However, trading in on-line by the respondents

 and others was not banned or prohibited till such time. 11. In common law jurisdiction, abuse of process includes want

 of a valid cause of action, though abuse of process does not require

http://www.judis.nic.in 11 proof of malice. Abuse of process of law implies malicious and

 improper use of some regular legal proceedings to obtain some

 advantage over an opponent. The petitioner, by instituting vexatious

 and obstructive action in the Court of law, is not only guilty of abuse of

 multiplicity of proceedings, but also guilty of suppressio veri and

 suggestio falsi. 12. Mr.M.S.Krishnan, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 tenth respondent also contended that the act of the petitioner is only a

 re-litigation, as the present petition is also filed for the same relief

 without any new cause of action after the final orders are passed in the

 earlier Writ Petition. Reliance was also placed on the decision reported

 in 1998 (3) SCC 573 ( K.K.Modi Vs. K.N.Modi ), wherein, the

 Hon'ble Apex Court held as follows : 44. One of the examples cited as an abuse of
 the process of court is re-litigation. It is an abuse of the
 process of the court and contrary to justice and public
 policy for a party to re-litigate the same issue which
 has already been tried and decided earlier against him.
 The re-agitation may or may not be barred as res
 judicata. But if the same issue is sought to be re-
 agitated, it also amounts to an abuse of the process of
 court. A proceeding being filed for a collateral purpose,
 or a spurious claim being made in litigation may also in
 a given set of facts amount to an abuse of the process
 of the court. Frivolous or vexatious proceedings may
 also amount to an abuse of the process of court
 especially where the proceedings are absolutely
 groundless. The court then has the power to stop such
 proceedings summarily and prevent the time of the
 public and the court from being wasted. Undoubtedly, it
 is a matter of the courts' discretion whether such
 proceedings should be stopped or not; and this
 discretion has to be exercised with circumspection. It is
 a jurisdiction which should be sparingly exercised, and
 exercised only in special cases. The court should also be
 satisfied that there is no chance of the suit succeeding.

 .... http://www.judis.nic.in 13 46. In Mcllkenny v. Chief Constable of West
 Midlands Police Force and another [1980 (2) All ER
 227], the Court of Appeal in England struck out the
 pleading on the ground that the action was an abuse of
 the process of the court since it raised an issue identical
 to that which had been finally determined at the
 plaintiffs' earlier criminal trial. The court said even when
 it is not possible to strike out the plaint on the ground
 of issue estoppel, the action can be struck out as an
 abuse of the process of the court because it is an abuse
 for a party to re-litigate a question or issue which has
 already been decided against him even though the
 other party cannot satisfy the strict rule of res judicata
 or the requirement of issue estoppel." 13. Refuting the allegation of abuse of process of law and the

 writ petition is hit by the principle of res judicata, Mr.AR.L.Sundaresan,

 learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submitted

 that though the respondents claimed that the earlier writ petition was

 disposed of, it was directed to be listed 'for reporting compliance' and

 hence, the petitioner was under the impression that it was kept

 pending and on that score it cannot be stated that there is a

 suppression of fact and the act of the petitioner is abuse of process of

 law. It is the claim of the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner that

 the act of filing the counter affidavit by the first respondent during the

http://www.judis.nic.in 14 month of February, 2017, in the said writ petition, which was allegedly

 disposed of by then, would go to show that even the first

 respondent/Union of India was placed with such impression. There is

 no res judicata, much less constructive res judicata, as there is no

 adjudication and order of the Court finalizing the issue raised before it.

 Hence, it cannot be stated that the persons have been vexed twice. 14. The Court will normally use res judicata to deny

 reconsideration of a matter. The doctrine of res judicata is only a

 method to prevent injustice to the parties of a case supposedly

 finished. In the given case, all the private respondents were not

 parties to the previous case. The said writ petition was also not

 decided on merits. Therefore, the issue of law was not decided and

 also not between the same parties. Hence, there is no res judicata. 15. As the Internet evolved and pervaded into the Country, the

 retail market had adopted a new technology adding one more medium

 to reach the consumers. When offering products including food items

 and other consumables are accepted, the trading of on-line medicine

 alone is challenged now. With lower price and easy accessibility, the

 members of the petitioner-Association feel hurt and threatened. The

http://www.judis.nic.in 15 on-line prices are certainly 10-20% lower than the purchasing price

 from brick and mortar stores. The reasons are the on-line vendors cut

 so many of the overheads like real estate, inventory, salary to

 employees, agencies etc. However, the only challenge faced by them

 is the timely delivery of the same to the right persons. In on-line

 trading of medicine, the requirement imposed on a customer is the

 prescription of a drug, but it is alleged by the petitioner that on-line

 pharmacists do not comply with the laws and are selling prescription

 drugs and controlled substances without valid prescription and they

 are also offering discounts for bulk purchases of prescription drugs, but

 on the other hand, there are several benefits to a purchaser of on-line. 16. It is uniformly contended by the learned Senior Counsel

 appearing for the respondents that purchasing the medicines through

 on-line is physically easier than going to the pharmacies. For the

 senior citizens, i.e., the age group that spends most on drugs, the

 consideration is an important one. The on-line medium offers modern

 medical care tools and as such, their reminder information about the

 medicines and also render round the clock assistance. On-line

 pharmacies allowed the patients to purchase the drugs discreetly

 without face to face interactions. The rise in on-line pharmacies also

http://www.judis.nic.in 16 creates more supply options for the purchasers to find the best service

 and price. The above benefits undoubtedly have contributed to the

 growth of the on-line trading, of-course, without licence. On-line

 vending provides convenience. For the elderly and those who have

 mobility issues, the on-line delivery medium is crucial. 17. While considering the benefits and advantages in the on-

 line trading, there are also several risks which are unique to the on-

 line trading. A patient receives a prescription drug based on on-line

 questionnaire instead of a valid prescription, which may result in

 serious side effects and this may be the most common risk without any

 regulation. The on-line selling of medicines does not require valid

 prescription, even when selling the prescription drugs. Secondly, the

 chance of the prescription drugs are delivered without any information

 to the patients. Yet another risk is that the patient may receive the

 counterfeit drugs, which are sub-standard or super-potent or

 adulterated. Counterfeit drugs are manufactured in packages and

 distributed without regulatory oversight and control exercised over

 genuine drugs. The important and major risk of purchasing drugs from

 an on-line store is the misuse of medical, financial and electronic

 information of patients. Even if the regulations, which are at draft

http://www.judis.nic.in 17 stage in place, the sale of medicines through Internet intermediaries

 and the State and Central Governments cannot control the illegal

 sales, perhaps, the co-ordination of efforts may prove effective. The

 internet search engines are the most commonly used intermediaries

 on-line. The search engines like Google exercise little control over

 their contents. 18. In the counter affidavit filed by the fifth respondent, it is

 stated that they are not violating any law and they are meticulously

 following the mandatory provisions, i.e., Sections and Rules. It is

 specifically stated in the counter affidavit that they ensure compliance

 of Rules 65(4) (1), 65 (4)(3), 65(4)(4), 65(5)(1), 65(5)(3), 65(9)(a)

 and 65(9)(b) of the D and C Rules. It is also stated that as per Rule

 65, Clause 11 of the D and C Rules, the person dispensing a

 prescription, containing a drug specified in Schedule H, shall comply

 with the requirements in addition to the other requirements of these D

 & C Rules viz., the prescription must not be dispensed for more than

 once, unless the prescriber has stated thereon that it may be

 dispensed more than once. http://www.judis.nic.in 18 19. Similarly, the seventh respondent has stated in the counter

 affidavit that it is only a platform connecting the users/customers who

 intend to purchase medicines with the pharmacies. The seventh

 respondent itself does not engage in manufacture or sale or

 distribution or stock or exhibit or offer for sale, or distribute any

 pharmaceutical drugs. On the contrary, the seventh respondent merely

 provides only logistic services acting as an agent of the customers and

 the sale of medicines and it is not involved in the manufacture or sale

 or distribution, or stocking or exhibiting or offering for sale, or

 distributing any pharmaceutical drugs. Hence, the seventh respondent

 is not required to obtain any license under the D & C Act and the Rules

 framed thereunder. Licenses are obtained by the pharmacists, who are

 empanelled with the seventh respondent. 20. The ninth respondent, M/s.Practo Technologies Private

 limited on whose behalf learned counsel Mr.Senthil Kumar appeared

 and submitted that it does not operate or control, hospitals, clinics,

 pharmacies or pharmacists, but merely provides information on the

 above. As on date, about 250 licensed pharmacies are registered on

 the ninth respondent's website and the ninth respondent has not

 permitted to register on its platform to sell the prescription medicines

http://www.judis.nic.in 19 without a valid licence under the D & C Act . The business model of the

 ninth respondent is only to facilitate the sale and purchase of

 medicines on its website. Any patient intending to purchase

 prescription drugs is required to upload a valid prescription for such

 purchase from a licensed medical practitioner. It is stated that the

 system itself is designed in such a manner that a request for

 prescription drugs would be rejected, unless a valid prescription is

 uploaded with such request. The request for prescription drugs (i.e)

 accompanied by a valid prescription, is acted upon by the licenced

 pharmacy (i.e) situated in or adjacent to the locality where the patient

 resides. The said licenced pharmacy thereafter is required to verify the

 prescription and if the same is in order, dispense the medicines from

 the licensed premises to the patient. Thus, the ninth respondent claims

 that it is also only facilitating the patients' transactions of sale and

 purchase of medicines and the system generates a verifiable audit trial

 in respect of the entire process. As the ninth respondent claims that it

 is not indulging in the on-line medicines, it is submitted that the on-

 line sales are facilitated from a licenced pharmacy, which is not in

 violation of Rules 61 and 65 of the D and C Rules. http://www.judis.nic.in 20 21. Learned counsel appearing for the tenth respondent

 submitted that the petitioner had approached this Court with unclean

 hands. The tenth respondent's contentions are also similar to the ninth

 respondent and they do not engage in any of the specified activities.

 It only provides a technology platform to connect the consumers to the

 brick and mortar third party licenced pharmacies and the sale of

 medicines itself is concluded directly between the third party licenced

 pharmacies and the customers. The medicines are always dispensed

 by the third party licenced pharmacies against the prescription in

 compliance with all the provisions of the said Act and the Rules. The

 tenth respondent only connects consumers to the brick and mortar

 pharmacies and there is no provision under the said Act and the Rules

 prohibiting the working of such technology platforms. The tenth

 respondent also stated that the public interest is served by operation

 of the technology platforms, since they empower consumers having

 access to "hard to find" medicines, more so, with rare disease and

 convenience of medication ordered specially for sick, elderly working

 professional and for patients with disability. 22. Pharmacies and Druggists have long sought to shield their

 market from on-line traders of medicines protecting consumers in the

http://www.judis.nic.in 21 process. There is no distinction between legitimate and illegitimate

 on-line medical store. Intermediaries, who profit from dealing with on-

 line pharmacies, have no regulations. It is their broad reach and

 function, they are able to balance their interests. Another crucial

 lifelines in Internet commerce is the financial intermediary. They

 impose their own condition of use. Again, here only a handful of

 companies dominate the majority of the market. 23. The growth of on-line purchase of medicines is encouraged

 also by the direct exposure to pharmaceutical advertisement. The

 increased exposure to pharmaceutical products through all modes of

 communication like Television, Radio, Internet, etc. coupled with less

 face to face consultation has given patients a false sense of

 empowerment. The practice of "self-diagnose" by consumers also

 drive them to on-line pharmacies. On-line pharmacies provide

 consumers the ability to compare the price and availability also. While

 it is time-efficient, it affords more privacy than the brick and mortar

 pharmacy. 24. In fact, in the counter-affidavit of the Union of India, the

 recommendations, after the deliberations in the 47th Meeting of Drugs

http://www.judis.nic.in 22 Consultative Committee (in short "DCC"), are extracted which says

 that "the issue has become international and is being investigated by

 the international regulatory and law enforcement agencies as well as

 Interpol. The State Drug Controllers were asked to maintain a vigil in

 their States to ensure that such activities are not permitted in their

 States in the interest of the human health. It was however, felt that

 import of small quantities of medicines by the genuine importers for

 their personal use complying with the requirements of sale under the

 Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 should not be stopped." Further, it

 is stated that it would be difficult to deny the advent of new

 technologies leading to the development of E-commerce. It was

 further recommended that there has to be an open-minded approach

 to the matter. 25. In the 50th Meeting of the DCC, the report of the Sub-

 committee qua the examination of the regulations for sale of drugs

 over Internet and recommended to the Central Government for

 consideration and further action. Hence, public notice dated

 16.03.2011 was issued inviting comments from various stakeholders.

 The Union of India also seems to have received numerous comments

 and suggestions from various stakeholders, including the All India

http://www.judis.nic.in 23 Chemists and Druggists Association, wherein, the petitioner association

 is a member, and the Indian Internet Pharmacies Association. After

 deliberations on the concerns raised by the stakeholders, the Central

 Government decided to bring a regulatory framework for the sale of

 on-line medicines. 26. Thus, the notification in G.S.R.817(E), dated 28.08.2018

 was issued by the Department of healthy and Family Welfare, Ministry

 of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, publishing the

 draft rules to amend the D & C Rules, once again calling for objections

 and suggestions from all the stakeholders to be considered by the

 Central Government. The comments and suggestions were received

 and after due deliberations, the draft rules have to be published for

 finalization in the official Gazette. Therefore, as on date, there are no

 proper rules or regulations for on-line trading of medicines. 27. The State Government has conveniently shirked the

 responsibility stating that as the D & C Act is a central legislation, any

 addition/deletion/amendment under the provisions of the D & C Act ,

 can be done only by the Central Government. http://www.judis.nic.in 24 28. At this juncture, it is to be stated that Section 18 of the D

 & C Act, prohibits manufacture and sale of certain drugs and cosmetics

 and Clause (c) of Section 18 reads as follows : 29. According to the learned Senior Counsels for the petitioner,

 Rule 61 of the D & C Rules provides for various forms of licenses, i.e.,

 Forms 20, 20-A, 20-B, 20-F, 20-G, 21-A and 21-B, to be obtained for

 selling and distributing drugs. Relying upon Rule 62 of the D & C

 Rules, it is contended that if drugs are sold or stored for sale at more

 than one place, separate application shall be made and a separate

 license shall be obtained in respect of each such place. Rule 65 of the

 D & C Rules provides the conditions of licenses stating as to how sale

 and supply should be made in accordance with the license conditions

 and only in the presence of a registered Pharmacist.

http://www.judis.nic.in 25 30. Chapter III of the D & C Act deals with import of drugs and

 cosmetics, while Chapter IV takes care of manufacture, sale and

 distribution of drugs and cosmetics. Sections 12 and 33 of the said Act

 fall under the above Chapters respectively empower the Central

 Government to make rules concerning the said aspects. In exercise of

 such power, the present notification was issued. 31. Rule 67-I of the proposed rules contains definition clauses

 defining 'e-pharmacy', 'e-pharmacy portal', 'Central Licensing

 Authority', ' prescription' and 'sale by way of e-pharmacy'. Rule 67-J

 mandates the registration of e-pharmacy, while Rules 67-L and 67-M

 specify the application for registration and conditions of registration

 respectively. According to Rule 67-Q, the registration issued to any

 person shall remain valid for a period of three years, which can be

 renewed under Rule 67-R. Rule 67-N provides for granting registration.

 Rule 67-K speaks about the disclosure of information generated

 through e-pharmacy portal. Rule 67-O empowers the Central Licensing

 Authority to depute officers for periodic inspection. Rule 67-P lays

 down procedure for distribution or sale of drugs through e-Pharmacy.

 Prohibition of advertisement of drugs is imposed under Rule 67-S.

 Rule 67-T empowers the Central Licensing Authority to suspend or

http://www.judis.nic.in 26 cancel the registration with provisions to appeal and deemed

 cancellation. Rule 67-U and 67-V deal with complaint redressal

 mechanism and monitoring of e-Pharmacies. These provisions are

 intended to regulate the on-line trade of drugs and cosmetics and to

 prevent abuse of drugs. 32. Countries like U.S.A. which has the new laws in place also

 finds the enforcement of the same as a difficult challenge. While the

 pros and cons of the on-line pharmacy is debated, the stakeholders

 and the Central and State Governments are aware of the need for a

 cohesive system of regulation to be notified regulating on-line drugs

 trade. 33. Mr.P.S.Raman, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 eighth respondent had placed his reliance in this regard on Suresh

 Jindal V. Bses Rajdhani Power Ltd. , (2008) 1 SCC 341, wherein,

 it is held as follows : 34. In this case also, though there is a statute, the regulatory

 rules are yet to be notified, in the wake of advancement of technology.

 Unless the legislation keeps pace with the technology, the commerce

 based on technology has to lag behind. 35. While the draft rules are published in the Gazette, they are

 yet to be notified. Once it is notified, there is bound to be

 disagreement between law makers, drug companies, on-line traders

 and finally the consumers. In the absence of any Central or State

 Government legislation or rules, on-line sale of prescription drugs

 could hardly be curbed. http://www.judis.nic.in 28 36. The Central Government had already been given a longer

 rope by the order of the Division Bench, which was passed as early as

 on 20.12.2016. Though around two years have passed from the date

 of the said judgment , the rules are still at the draft stage. 37. For the reasons set hitherto, it becomes necessary for the

 Central Government to notify the rules at the earliest in the interest of

 public and the on-line drug trade. Accordingly, respondents 1 and 3

 are directed to notify the proposed Drugs and Cosmetics Amendment

 Rules, 2018 in the Gazette at the earliest, however, not later than

 31.01.2019. Thereafter, the concerned stakeholders, namely, persons

 doing trade in on-line pharmacy have to obtain their licences in the

 manner prescribed in the rules to be notified, within a period of two

 months from the date of such notification. 38. As the draft rules are framed by the Central Government,

 after deliberations including the stakeholders, till the aforesaid rules

 are notified, the on-line traders are bound not to proceed with their

 on-line business in drugs and cosmetics. http://www.judis.nic.in 29 39. With the above directions, this writ petition stands

 disposed of. However, there shall be no order as to costs.

 Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is closed. 17.12.2018
 Speaking / Non-speaking Order
 Index : Yes/No
 Internet : Yes
 gg/srn

 To 1. The Union of India,
 Department of Health and Family Welfare,
 Room No.348, A Wing,
 Nirman Bhavan,
 New Delhi 110 011. 2. The Secretary,
 Department of Health and Family Welfare,
 State of Tamil Nadu,
 Fort St. George,
 Chennai. 3. Central Drugs Standard Control Organization,
 Directorate General of Health Services,
 Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
 Government of India,
 FDA Bhavan, ITO, Kotla Road,
 New Delhi 110 002. 4. The Drugs Controller,
 Drugs Control Department,
 359, DMS Compound, Anna Salai,
 Teynampet, Chennai - 600 006. http://www.judis.nic.in 30 PUSHPA SATHYANARAYANA, J. srn W.P.No.28716 of 2018 and W.M.P.No.33542 of 2018 17.12.2018

http://www.judis.nic.in 31 W.P.No.28716 of 2018 PUSHPA SATHYANARAYANA, J.