2025:HHC:11307

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MMO No. 1189 of 2024
 Reserved on: 05.04.2025
 Date of Decision: 28.04.2025

 Dikshit Chauhan & others
 ...Petitioners
 Versus

 State of Himachal Pradesh and others

 ...Respondents
 _____________________________________
 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No

 For the Petitioners : Mr. Paresh Sharma, Advocate.

 For the Respondents/State : Mr. Jitender K. Sharma,
 Additional Advocate General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The present petition under Section 528 of the

 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNSS) has been filed

 for quashing of F.I.R. No. 11/2023, dated 14.02.2023 for the

 commission of offences punishable under Sections 498-A, and

 323 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code ( IPC ), registered 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 2025:HHC:11307

at Police Station Chaupal, District Shimla, H.P. and

consequential proceedings arising out of the same. 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

petition are that the informant made a complaint to the Police

asserting that she was married to Dikshit Chauhan in October

2020. The behaviour of her parents-in-law was not proper with

her. Her mother-in-law used to harass her on trivial matters.

She used to say that the informant had not brought anything

with her. The informant told this fact to her parents. The

informant was being pressurised to commit suicide. The

informant went to her parents' home. The informant went to

her matrimonial home on 13th February with her father, brother

and uncle to settle the matter. Her parents-in-law and her

husband told her that they would not keep her in her

matrimonial home. Her mother-in-law gave beatings to her.

The informant returned with her son. The police registered the

F.I.R. and conducted the investigation. The police found, after

the investigation, that the informant's mother-in-law, Brijbala,

started harassing her after three days of the marriage. The other

petitioners also used to taunt her because she was not equal to

them. She narrated these incidents to her husband, but he did 3 2025:HHC:11307

not help her. The informant's mother-in-law had misbehaved

with her and slapped her on 13th February 2023. The police filed

the chargesheet after the completion of the investigation 3. Being aggrieved by the registration of the F.I.R. and

filing of the charge sheet, the petitioners have filed the present

petition, asserting that the informant's behaviour was not

proper with the petitioners. The petitioners showed all love and

affection to the informant. The informant used to leave her

matrimonial home without the petitioners' consent. She used to

quarrel with the petitioners. She pressurised petitioner no. 1 to

leave petitioners no. 2 & 3 and reside at Shimla. The petitioner

No. 1 expressed his inability to do so. The petitioners visited the

informant's house after the birth of the baby. The informant

visited her matrimonial home on 13th February 2023. The matter

was reconciled between the parties, and the informant agreed

not to misbehave with the petitioners. There are no specific

allegations against the petitioners. The petitioners never

demanded any dowry from the informant. The allegations in the

FIR show a domestic dispute and do not satisfy the ingredients

of cruelty. The informant had not suffered any visible injury,

which falsifies her version regarding her beating. Therefore, it 4 2025:HHC:11307

was prayed that the present petition be allowed and F.I.R. and

consequential proceedings arising out of the same be quashed. 4. I have heard Mr. Paresh Sharma, learned counsel for

the petitioners and Mr. Jitender K. Sharma, learned Additional

Advocate General for the respondent/State. 5. Mr Paresh Sharma, learned counsel for the

petitioners, submitted that the petitioners were innocent and

were falsely implicated by the informant. She is residing in her

parental home voluntarily. The allegations made by her in the

F.I.R. are vague and do not contain any specific particulars. A

charge sheet filed on such vague allegations will not result in the

conviction of the accused. The continuation of the proceedings

amounts to an abuse of process of the Court. The contents of the

compromise do not show any demand for dowry. Therefore, he

prayed that the present petition be allowed and F.I.R. and

consequential proceedings arising out of the same be quashed. 6. Mr. Jitender K. Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General, submitted that the F.I.R. contains sufficient details of

the harassment by the petitioners. The police conducted the

investigation, and the allegations made by the informant were 5 2025:HHC:11307

duly supported by the witnesses. The police found sufficient

reasons to file a charge sheet, and the matter is pending before

the competent Court. The truthfulness or otherwise of the

allegations is a matter of trial, and this Court should not quash

the proceedings without allowing the prosecution to prove the

allegations during the trial. Hence, he prayed that the present

petition be dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 8. The law relating to quashing of FIR was explained by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in B.N. John v. State of U.P. , 2025 SCC

OnLine SC 7 as under: - In clause (1) it has been mentioned that where the
allegations made in the first information report or the
complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and
accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute
any offence or make out a case against the accused, then
the FIR or the complaint can be quashed. As per clause (4), where the allegations in the FIR do not
constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-
cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
police officer without an order dated by the Magistrate as
contemplated under Section 155 (2) of the CrPC, and in
such a situation, the FIR can be quashed. Similarly, as provided under clause (6), if there is an
express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of
the CrPC or the concerned Act under which the criminal
proceedings are instituted, such proceedings can be
quashed." 2025:HHC:11307 9. This position was reiterated in Ajay Malik v. State of

Uttarakhand , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 185, wherein it was observed: Under such circumstances, it would be an abuse of the
 process of law to allow the prosecution to continue
 against the aged parents of Rajesh, the present appellants
 herein, on the basis of a vague and general complaint
 which is silent about the precise acts of the appellants."
 (Emphasis supplied) 12. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

was observed: "13. Instances of a husband's family members filing a
petition to quash criminal proceedings launched against
them by his wife in the midst of matrimonial disputes are
neither a rarity nor of recent origin. Precedents aplenty
abound on this score. We may now take note of some
decisions of particular relevance. Recently, in Kahkashan
Kausar alias Sonam v. State of Bihar [(2022) 6 SCC 599],
this Court had occasion to deal with a similar situation
where the High Court had refused to quash an FIR
registered for various offences, including Section 498A IPC. Noting that the foremost issue that
required determination was whether allegations made
against the in-laws were general omnibus allegations which
would be liable to be quashed, this Court referred to earlier
decisions wherein concern was expressed over the misuse of Section 498A IPC and the increased tendency to implicate
relatives of the husband in matrimonial disputes. This Court
observed that false implications by way of general omnibus
allegations made in the course of matrimonial disputes, if left
unchecked, would result in misuse of the process of law. On
the facts of that case, it was found that no specific
allegations were made against the in-laws by the wife,
and it was held that allowing their prosecution in the
absence of clear allegations against the in-laws would
result in an abuse of the process of law. It was also noted
that a criminal trial, leading to an eventual acquittal,
would inflict severe scars upon the accused, and such an
exercise ought to be discouraged. 14. In Preeti Gupta v. State of Jharkhand [(2010) 7 SCC 667],
this Court noted that the tendency to implicate the
husband and all his immediate relations is also not
uncommon in complaints filed under Section 498A IPC. It
was observed that the Courts have to be extremely careful and
cautious in dealing with these complaints and must take
pragmatic realities into consideration while dealing with
matrimonial cases, such as allegations of harassment by the
husband's close relations, who were living in different cities
and never visited or rarely visited the place where the 11 2025:HHC:11307

 complainant resided, would add an entirely different
 complexion and such allegations would have to be scrutinised
 with great care and circumspection. 15. Earlier, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti [(2009) 10 SCC 184],
 this Court observed that the mere mention of statutory
 provisions and the language thereof for lodging a
 complaint is not the 'be all and end all' of the matter, as
 what is required to be brought to the notice of the Court is the
 particulars of the offence committed by each and every
 accused and the role played by each and every accused in the
 commission of that offence. These observations were made
 in the context of a matrimonial dispute involving Section 498A IPC." (Emphasis supplied) 13. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024

SCC OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face

criminal allegations without any specific instance of criminal

misconduct amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It

was observed: 14. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes, the

parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a

molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance

does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 15. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v.

State of A.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

phenomenon of false implication by a general omnibus

allegation in the case of a matrimonial dispute is not unknown

to the Court. When the allegations are general and omnibus, the

prosecution should not be continued. It was observed: - 14 498A and others were vague and general, lacking any
specific role and particulars. The court proceeded to
quash the FIR against the accused persons and noted that
such a situation, if left unchecked, would result in the
abuse of the process of law. xxxx 17. Considering the dicta in Mahmood Ali (supra), we find
that the High Court, in this case, has failed to exercise due
care and has mechanically permitted the criminal
proceedings to continue despite specifically finding that
the allegations are general and omnibus in nature. The
Appellants herein approached the High Court on inter
alia grounds that the proceedings were re-initiated on
vexatious grounds and even highlighted the
commencement of divorce proceedings by Respondent
No. 2. In these peculiar circumstances, the High Court had
a duty to consider the allegations with great care and
circumspection so as to protect against the danger of
unjust prosecution." 2025:HHC:11307 16. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 2621, that general and vague allegations of cruelty

made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
 particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
 SCC 184, this court observed that: In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: xxxx
13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,
this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
parties are forced to go through the tribulations of a trial
based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant
portion of the observation is as under: Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations
 have been made against either of the appellants
 herein, i.e. none of the appellants has been
 attributed any specific role in furtherance of the 18 2025:HHC:11307

 general allegations made against them. This simply
 leads to a situation wherein one fails to ascertain
 the role played by each accused in furtherance of
 the offence. The allegations are, therefore, general
 and omnibus and can, at best, be said to have been
 made out on account of small skirmishes...
 However, as far as the appellants are concerned, the
 allegations made against them, being general and
 omnibus, do not warrant prosecution. 21. ...it would be unjust if the appellants are forced
 to go through the tribulations of a trial, i.e. general
 and omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a
 situation where the relatives of the complainant's
 husband are forced to undergo trial. It has been
 highlighted by this Court in varied instances that a
 criminal trial leading to an eventual acquittal also
 inflicts severe scars upon the accused, and such an
 exercise must, therefore, be discouraged." 17. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682,

wherein it was observed: 18. A bare perusal of the FIR shows that the allegations
 made by respondent No. 2 are vague and omnibus. Other
 than claiming that appellant No. 1 harassed her and that
 appellant Nos. 2 to 6 instigated him to do so, respondent
 No. 2 has not provided any specific details or described
 any particular instance of harassment. She has also not
 mentioned the time, date, place, or manner in which the
 alleged harassment occurred. Therefore, the FIR lacks
 concrete and precise allegations. 18. This position was reiterated in Geddam Jhansi v. State

of Telangana , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 263, wherein it was observed: 19 19. In the present case, the informant has specifically

mentioned in her complaint made to the police that her mother-

in-law started harassing her on trivial matters. She used to say

that the informant had not brought anything with her. The

informant also stated that her mother-in-law gave her beatings 22 2025:HHC:11307

on 13th February 2023. This fact was corroborated during the

investigation. Therefore, it cannot be said that the contents of

the FIR are vague and do not disclose the commission of any

cognizable offence. 20. It was submitted that false allegations were made by

the informant because she is residing in her parental home and

does not want to reside in her matrimonial home. This Court

cannot determine the truthfulness or falsity of the allegations

because it is a matter of trial to be adjudicated by the learned

Trial Court where the matter is pending. This position was laid

down in Maneesha Yadav v. State of U.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 643

wherein it was held: - 21. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dharambeer Kumar Singh v. State of Jharkhand , (2025) 1 SCC 392: 22. Hence, it is not permissible for the Court to go into

the truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR. 23. A heavy reliance was placed upon the compromise

annexed to the petition to submit that it does not contain

anything regarding the demand for dowry. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in MCD v. Ram Kishan Rohtagi , (1983)

1 SCC 1: 1983 SCC (Cri) 115 that the proceedings can be quashed on

the face of the complaint and the papers accompanying the 25 2025:HHC:11307

same, no offence is constituted. It is not permissible to add or

subtract anything. It was observed: 24. Madras High Court also held in Ganga Bai v. Shriram ,

1990 SCC OnLine MP 213: ILR 1992 MP 964: 1991 Cri LJ 2018, that

the fresh evidence is not permissible or desirable in the

proceedings under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. It was observed: 25. Andhra Pradesh High Court also took a similar view

in Bharat Metal Box Company Limited, Hyderabad and Others vs. G.

K. Strips Private Limited and another , 2004 STPL 43 AP, and held: 26. A similar view was taken in Mahendra K.C. v. State of

Karnataka , (2022) 2 SCC 129: (2022) 1 SCC (Cri) 401, wherein it

was observed at page 142: 27. This position was reiterated in Supriya Jain v. State of

Haryana , (2023) 7 SCC 711: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 765, wherein it was

held: 28. A similar view was taken in Iveco Magirus

Brandschutztechnik GMBH v. Nirmal Kishore Bhartiya , (2024) 2

SCC 86: (2024) 1 SCC (Cri) 512: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1258, wherein

it was observed: 29. Therefore, it is not permissible to look into the

material filed by the petitioners with the petition, and the Court

has to rely upon the material brought before the learned Trial

Court. The authenticity of the compromise filed with the petition

has not been established, and it is impermissible to rely upon it

to quash the FIR. 30. A charge sheet has been filed before the Court. The

learned Trial Court is seized of the matter. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Iqbal v. State of U.P. , (2023) 8 SCC

734: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 949 that when the charge sheet has been

filed, the learned Trial Court should be left to appreciate the

same. It was observed: 31. The FIR discloses the commission of cognizable

offences, and it cannot be quashed at this stage. 32. Consequently, the present petition fails and the same

is dismissed. 33. The observations made hereinbefore shall remain

confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing,

whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 28th April, 2025
 (ravinder)