(Per : MR.JUSTICE B.C.PATEL)
 #. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Central
 Bureau of Investigation has made a grievance in the
 matter that huge fraud has been committed by committing
 several cognizable offences punishable under the Indian
 Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act. When the
 police was at the crucial stage of the investigation, a
 star culprit instead of appearing before the Police
 Officer despite the assurance given to this Court, has
 obtained an order from another court having no
 jurisdiction by suppressing the material facts and has
 put the investigation in jeopardy. #. It would be necessary to consider the broad aspects
 of the matter which had emerged till this stage. The
 Government has promulgated one scheme for the benefit of
 small scale industries whereby industries were supplied
 with High Speed Diesel (HSD) at concessional rate for
 processing and for sale of products after processing to
 certain industries and for certain products. There is
 variance in the price of the same material which is made
 available to the special class and the general public.
 Sales-tax was levied at a very nominal rate. With a view

HC-NIC Page 1 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 to earn huge amounts fraudulently, some persons in
 collusion with the officers of the Oil Companies and the
 Sales-tax Department taking advantage of the powers
 vested in them, misused their powers and by creating
 bogus documents, shown sale of HSD as if it is in
 compliance with the Special Scheme. Central Bureau of
 Investigation commenced investigation on or about
 23.5.2000. Press took note of this scandal and in their
 own way informed the public at large about the
 illegalities. As the petitioner was not satisfied with
 the investigation, he approached this Court. It was
 pointed out that there is large scale of corruption in
 sale/supply of High Speed Diesel (HSD) and the scam was
 required to be investigated very seriously by the
 Investigating Officer. Public exchequer has suffered a
 lot and some persons by committing offences have enriched
 themselves. #. Even during the investigation, the Investigating
 Officer found that the factories alleged to have been
 supplied with the High Speed Diesel were in fact not in
 existence. Some of them were fake and were existing
 merely on papers. It was pointed out by the learned
 counsel for the Central Bureau of Investigation that the
 industrial units which were allotted quota of High Speed
 Diesel at concessional rates were required to fulfill the
 requirements and formalities and were required to produce
 certain documents such as Sales Tax Registration
 Certificates under the State Sales Tax as well as Central
 Sales Tax Act , explosive license, No Objection
 Certificate of Pollution Control Board and other
 particulars of the firm, its officials,
 owners/signatories etc. It is on receipt of the
 application, Oil Companies were granting adhoc allotment
 for trial run of the factory. During the trial run,
 inspection of plant and machinery was required to be
 carried out by Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) of
 the Oil Companies. It is only after the certificate is
 issued by the TEC about the capacity of the consumption
 and storage etc. application of HSD under the Scheme was
 to be considered and HSD was to be allotted under the
 Scheme. The first adhoc quota after being granted was
 required to be released. It is the Committee formed by
 the Oil Companies which is responsible and it appears
 that the officers of the Company who were members of the
 Committee have not discharged their duties in accordance
 with law as averred by the counsel for the C.B.I. It is
 submitted that had they discharged their duties in
 accordance with law, possibly they would have unearthed
 that the factories alleged to have received HSD were in
 fact not in existence. Whatever it may be, during the

HC-NIC Page 2 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 investigation, it was revealed that nearly 50 such firms
 were lifting HSD on allocation by TEC. It is the case of
 the C.B.I. that the persons alleged to have received the
 HSD in fact, have not used the same for the purpose of
 manufacture but diverted the same in the open market and
 have gained illegally. It has been specifically stated
 by the C.B.I. that those firms/persons have closed their
 manufacturing activities since many years, yet in their
 names, the quantity of HSD has been lifted. Thus, fake
 names have been used for obtaining quota and the State is
 deprived of huge amount. From the investigation, at
 initial stage, it appeared that there was a huge fraud to
 the tune of Rs. 100 crores during 1997 to 2000. Even it
 was apprehended before the Court that the amount may
 increase to 150 crores and that the figure may even go
 higher after thorough investigation. It was pointed out
 by the counsel of the C.B.I. that despite the issuance
 of notice/summons, officers of the Oil Companies and the
 Sales Tax Department of the State of Gujarat and other
 States even did not cooperate at the initial stage. It
 is only after the issuance of process by this Court, the
 Sales Tax Officers of the State of Gujarat cooperated to
 certain extent and thereafter, the investigation
 proceeded quickly. As the persons were not cooperating a
 grievance was made before the Court by the C.B.I.
 Obviously persons with the clouds of illegalities would
 not be interested in cooperating with the Investigating
 Officer. Despite the fact that messages were sent by
 hand or by fax or by Registered AD post., some persons
 were not cooperating. We have discussed these aspects in
 detail in our order dated 13.9.2000. Thereafter, it was
 pointed out to us that from one Mr. N.B. Nariani who
 was working at the relevant time as Senior Technical
 Manager of I.O.C. huge amount was recovered. It was
 stated that the wealth acquired by him was not
 proportionate to his income from the known sources. Even
 I.O.C. is also making inquiry and is getting no
 response. It was pointed out with regard to one Rajiv
 Shastri, who was at the relevant point of time DGM of
 I.O.C., that the Investigating Officer was facing the
 same difficulty. Regarding One Mr. Shashi Dua who was a
 Senior Manager of I.O.C. from whose possession,
 disproportionate wealth has been recovered, the
 Investigating Officer has been trying to find out known
 source of income. These three officers adopted staunch
 attitude and were not cooperating with the Investigating
 Officer. The Court with pain noted that the
 Investigating Officer is not getting cooperation from the
 Vigilance Cell of the I.O.C. having its office at
 Petroleum House, Nariman Point, Mumbai and after the
 order was made by High Court, the cooperation was given

HC-NIC Page 3 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 by that office to the Investigating Officer. One Mr.
 Khimjibhai of Shiva Transport was absconding and one Mr.
 R.J. Gupta was also avoiding the process. One Mr.
 Arvind Solanki, Clerk of the H.P.C.L. was arrested. #. Considering the nature of the investigation and the
 amount involved, even Joint Director of the C.B.I. was
 required to remain present before the Court. It was
 pointed out to the Court that the scam amount would be
 more than 1000 crores. Day-to-day, the amount is
 increasing in view of the investigation undertaken
 thoroughly by the Investigating Officer. It is also
 required to be noted that the Director General of Police
 also appeared and pointed out certain aspects. Even the
 details of bank drafts, names of the issuing branches of
 the Bank, tanker numbers, indents/requests letters of the
 private firms, original copies of Declaration Forms
 (Form-2) submitted by the private firms, original
 verification reports, original copies of all the delivery
 orders issued by the Divisional Officers and the
 supplying locations were not supplied to the
 Investigating Officer by the I.O.C. Now, it is only
 after the Special Cell being set up by the I.O.C. these
 details are supplied. This indicates that even the
 I.O.C. was required to create a Special Cell and that
 itself indicates the nature of the scam. #. It was pointed out to the Court that one Rajiv
 Shastri, an officer serving at the relevant point of time
 with I.O.C. in the State of Gujarat, despite the service
 of summons on him, did not appear on one or the other
 pretext. Even the Executive Director asked Mr. Rajiv
 Shastri to appear before the Investigating Officer on
 16th October, 2000. Learned counsel for the I.O.C.
 communicated this information to the Executive Director
 who in turn communicated to Mr. Rajiv Shastri. #. Even direction was required to be given with regard
 to several banks which are 23 in number. The Transport
 Commissioners of the States of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh
 and Maharashtra were requested to furnish information
 about the passage of tankers carrying HSD through the
 inter-state check posts during the period 1997 to 2000.
 However, they did not submit details and therefore,
 direction was required to be issued to the Transport
 Commissioners of the States of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh
 and Maharashtra. Even till today, necessary details as
 required by the Investigating Officer are not furnished
 by these Commissionerates. The Investigating Officer has
 conveyed that only about 20 per cent details are supplied
 by the Transport Commissioners of the states of Gujarat,

HC-NIC Page 4 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. #. Commissioners of Sales Tax of the states of
 Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh are not supplying the
 details as required by the Investigating Officer.
 Therefore, we direct the (1) Commissioner of Sales Tax,
 Govt. of Maharashtra, 8th floor, Vikrikar Bhavan,
 Mazgaon, Mumbai - 400 010; (2) Commissioner of Transport,
 Govt. of Maharashtra, 4th floor, New Administrative
 Building, Govt. Colony, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051;
 (3) Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Govt. of Madhya
 Pradesh, M.G. Road, Indore (M.P.), and, (4) Commissioner
 of Transport, Govt. of Madhya Pradesh, Habibgunj, Bhopal
 (M.P.) to remain present personally before the Court on
 22nd November, 2000. On or before 22nd November, 2000,
 if they furnish all the details to the Investigating
 Officer as demanded, then they may submit compliance
 letter to the Investigating Officer and they need not
 remain present before the Court. #. A grievance is made before the Court that despite the
 fact that Mr. Rajiv Shastri was required to remain
 present, on one or the other pretext, he did not remain
 present. He was required to remain personally present on
 16th October, 2000 as per the direction given by this
 Court on 12th October, 2000. Learned counsel for the
 I.O.C. requested the Court to direct the Executive
 Director to communicate the direction of the Court to Mr.
 Rajiv Shastri to personally remain present before the
 Investigating Officer and despite communication of the
 direction to the said Rajiv Shastri, forwarded a letter
 dated 15.10.2000 along with a medical certificate,
 indicating the backpain. He was unable to move as per
 his say in the letter. However, to the surprise of
 everyone, he appeared on 20th October, 2000. He appeared
 not because he was required to appear but he appeared
 because he was armed with an order made by learned Single
 Judge of Allahabad High Court sitting at Lucknow. #. So far as the investigation is concerned, one has to
 go through the Criminal Procedure Code (hereinafter
 referred to as "Code") to understand the information to
 the Police and their powers to investigate. Section 154
 of the Code refers to information in cognizable case.
 The Investigating Agency is also authorised to
 investigate the offences against the officers of the
 Central Government. It is required to be noted that
 under section 158 of the Code, report is required to be
 submitted to the Magistrate without any delay. The
 Investigating Officer has to make investigation without
 any delay. Section 169 of the Code refers to the release

HC-NIC Page 5 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 of the accused when evidence is deficient. The said
 section 169 reads as under. We are not reproducing sub-section (1) of section 170 of
 the Code. Section 174 of the Code refers to the report
 of Police Officer on completion of the investigation. It
 says that as soon as the investigation is completed, the
 officer in charge of the police station shall forward the
 report to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of
 the offence on a police report. The Investigating
 Officer is not entitled or not authorised to submit
 report to any Magistrate but only before a Magistrate
 entitled to take cognizance of an offence. Section 2 (e) of the Code reads as under. Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure reads as
 under. Thus, powers which are referred to in section 482 are
 with reference to the High Court which otherwise has
 jurisdiction to make an order, and not other High Courts
 having no jurisdiction. It appears that Rajiv Shastri
 has misled the Allahabad High Court in obtaining the
 order. He filed a petition being Criminal Misc. Case
 No. 1128 of 2000. He has made following averments in
 paras 16, 17, 18 and 19 in the petition as under. Merely because a General Manager of I.O.C. has his
 office at Lucknow would not confer any jurisdiction on
 the Court at Lucknow. In fact, Rajiv Shastri has
 suppressed several facts. In supplementary affidavit
 filed before the Allahabad High Court, in paras 2 and 3

HC-NIC Page 7 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 he has averred as under. Reading para 16 of the petition filed by Rajiv Shastri
 before Allahabad High Court, it is very clear that he was
 apprehending arrest. However, in view of recent decision
 of the Apex Court, the reference of which we are making
 at relevant stage hereafter, Rajiv Shastri did not make
 any prayer under section 438 of Criminal Procedure Code
 before Allahabad High Court. Suffice it to say that nowhere the petitioner has
 referred to the filing of the present petition in this
 High Court and the fact that he was required to appear
 before the Investigating Officer in response to the order
 which was made by this Court and which was communicated
 to him by the Executive Director of the I.O.C. Thus, Mr.
 Rajiv Shastri obtained the order by suppressing the
 material facts. Not only that, but the said Rajiv
 Shastri did not join the Investigating Officer as a party
 who was in a position to place relevant material before
 the Court. The petition was filed under section 482 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure for getting order from the
 Court that he may not be arrested till charge-sheet is
 filed. The police is given ample power for
 investigation. When the investigation was in full swing,
 by obtaining such order and that too by suppressing the
 material facts, the said Rajiv Shastri has not only
 misled the Court but has played fraud with the Statute.
 It is the duty of a citizen that when he approaches the
 Court, to state correct facts before the Court. ##. It is required to be noted that the offence was
 registered in Gandhinagar within the territorial limits
 of the State of Gujarat. The Investigating Agency is
 also C.B.I., Gandhinagar. There is no role to be played
 by Union of India. It is required to be noted that the
 offence has taken place in Gujarat where the said Rajiv
 Shastri was serving and therefore, neither the Union of
 India nor the Director, C.B.I., New Delhi had to play any
 role in the matter. It was necessary to join the

HC-NIC Page 8 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 Investigating Officer as a party concerned. There is a
 legal duty cast upon the litigant to approach the Court
 with the true and correct facts. A litigant is obliged
 to join the necessary and real parties before seeking any
 relief. The Apex Court in the case of S.P.
 Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath , reported in 1994 SCC
 1, JT 1993 (6) 331, has pointed out as under. 1. ... "Fraud avoids all judicial acts,
 ecclesiastical or temporal" observed Chief
 Justice Edward Coke of England about three
 centuries ago. It is the settled proposition of
 law that a judgment or decree obtained by playing
 fraud on the court is a nullity and non est in
 the eyes of law. Such a judgment/decree by the
 first court or by the highest court has to be
 treated as a nullity by every court, whether
 superior or inferior. It can be challenged in
 any court even in collateral proceedings. Judicial pronouncements have accorded almost a
 uniform interpretation to the said compendious
 expression even prior to the Fifteenth Amendment
 of the Constitution as to mean "the bundle of
 facts which it would be necessary for the
 plaintiff to prove, if traversed, in order to
 support his right to the judgment of the court." 9.In Read v. Brown (1889) 22 Q.B.D. 128]
 Lord Esher, M.R., adopted the definition for the
 phrase "cause of action" that it meant "every
 fact which it would be necessary for the
 plaintiff to prove, if traversed, in order to
 support his right to the judgment of the Court.
 It does not comprise every piece of evidence
 which is necessary to prove each fact, but every
 fact which is necessary to be proved." 10.The Privy Council has noted in Mohd. Khalil Khan v. Mahbub Ali Mian [AIR 1949 PC 78]
 that the aforesaid definition adopted by Lord
 Esher M.R. had been followed in India even
 thereafter, the courts in India have consistently
 followed the said interpretation without
 exception for understanding the scope of the
 expression "cause of action." 11.Even in the context of Article 226 (2) of
 the Constitution this Court adopted the same
 interpretation to the expression "cause of actin
 wholly or in part arises: vide., State of
 Rajasthan v. Swaika Properties [1985 (3) SCC
 217]. A three Judge Bench of this Court in Oil
 and Natural Gas Commission v. Utpal Kumar Basu
 and Anr. [ JT 1994 (5) SC 1 = 1994 (4) SCC 711]
 observed that it is well-settled that the
 expression `cause of action' means that bundle of
 facts which the petitioner must prove, if
 traversed to entitle him to a judgment in his
 favour. Having given such a wide interpretation
 to the expression Ahmadi, J. (as the learned
 Chief Justice then was ) speaking for M.N.
 Venkatachalliah, C.J., and B.P. Jeevan Reddy J.,
 utilised the opportunity to caution the High
 Courts against transgressing into the

HC-NIC Page 10 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 jurisdiction of the other High Courts merely on
 the ground of some insignificant event connected
 with the cause of action taking place within the
 territorial limits of the High Court to which the
 litigant approaches at his own choice or
 convenience. The following are such
 observations: 12.The above observations are sufficient to
 take care of the apprehension expressed by the
 Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in the
 impugned judgment that "if that be so, then no
 investigation by any police officer in India can
 be successfully carried out because any
 absconding accused can go to any corner of India
 and challenge the prosecution where he was
 staying." 13.We make it clear that the mere fact that
 F.I.R. was registered in a particular State is
 not the sole criterion to decide that no cause of
 action has arisen even partly within the
 territorial limits of jurisdiction of another
 State. Nor are we to be understood that any
 person can create a fake cause of action or even
 concoct one by simply jutting into territorial
 limits of another State or by making a sojourn or
 even a permanent residence therein. The place of
 residence of the person moving a High Court is

HC-NIC Page 11 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 not the criterion to determine the contours of
 the cause of action in that particular writ
 petition. The High Court before which the writ
 petition is filed must ascertain whether any part
 of the cause of action has arisen within the
 territorial limits of its jurisdiction. It
 depends upon the facts in each case. 37.So far as the question of territorial
 jurisdiction with reference to a criminal offence
 is concerned, the main factor to be considered is
 the place where the alleged offence was
 committed." #. It is also required to be noted that under section
 177 of the Cr.P.C., every offence shall ordinarily be
 inquired into and tried by a Court within whose
 jurisdiction it was committed. Therefore, for all
 purposes, the Investigating Officer can submit the report
 to the Court within whose jurisdiction, the offence has
 been committed and that court alone will have
 jurisdiction to entertain the application. #. In the case of State of Assam and another v. Dr.
 Brojen Gogol and others , reported in 1998 SCC (Cri.) 403,
 wherein learned Single Judge granted anticipatory bail.
 Paras 7 and 10 of the judgment is required to be referred
 at this stage. As the offence is committed in the State of Gujarat, the
 court in the State of Gujarat will have jurisdiction
 either under section 482 or section 438 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure. If the order is passed, having no
 jurisdiction, it will not bind this Court. The Court
 situated beyond the territorial limits of the place or
 the High Court of other State where no cause of action
 has arisen will have no jurisdiction to entertain such
 application. In our opinion, in the instant case,
 offence was committed within the territorial limits of
 the State of Gujarat and the C.B.I. having its office at
 Gandhinagar being the investigating agency, the High
 Court of Gujarat will have jurisdiction to entertain the
 application. Investigation cannot be thwarted. ##. As indicated, Rajiv Shastri, approached the High
 Court of Allahabad by suppressing material facts i.e.
 the order made by this Court and without disclosing the
 crucial stage of investigation. By suppressing material
 facts said person has approached the Court having no
 jurisdiction. It amounts to abuse of process of court.
 An order made by a Court without jurisdiction is a
 nullity and non est. Its invalidity can be set up
 whenever it is sought to be enforced or acted upon as a

HC-NIC Page 13 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015
 foundation for a right. The defect of jurisdiction
 strikes at the very authority of the court to pass an
 order and that cannot be cured even by consent of the
 parties. Considering the three aspects namely (1)
 approaching the court by suppressing material facts (2)
 having no jurisdiction and (3) without joining necessary
 party namely Investigating Officer, the order obtained is
 non est. We have no doubt in our mind that had Mr.
 Rajiv Shastri disclosed the full, correct and true facts
 before the Allahabad High Court especially the facts
 stated in para 9 the learned Single Judge would not have
 passed the order. ##. The accused Rajiv Shastri is present before the
 Court and he is directed not to leave the territorial
 limits of State of Gujarat without prior permission of
 this Court. As the order made by Allahabad High Court in
 the case filed by Rajiv Shastri is required to be held to
 be non est in view of the Supreme Court judgment which we
 have referred to hereinabove, it would be open to the
 Investigating Officer, if circumstances require, to
 arrest the accused in accordance with Code of Criminal
 Procedure . ##. Status and progress report submitted by the C.B.I.
 be taken on record. S.O. to 22nd November, 2000. [B.C.PATEL, J.][R.R. TRIPATHI, J.]
 *****
 pirzada/- HC-NIC Page 14 of 14 Created On Fri Sep 11 02:07:00 IST 2015