These writ petitions are filed challenging circulars issued

by the Oil Companies seeking details including income-tax

returns, sales-tax returns and Bank statements of the

petitioners. The petitioners, who are dealers of petroleum

products under the respondent public sector Oil Companies,

challenge Exhibit P2 series of circulars directing them to submit

the details of dealerships including sales tax returns, income

tax returns and Bank statements for the relevant financial

years. Relying on the decision of the Apex Court in K.S.Puttaswamy v. Union of India [(2017)10 SCC 1], it is

contended that tax returns and Bank statements are private

information in respect of the petitioners and the compulsory

disclosure of the same would amount to violation of the

fundamental right of privacy guaranteed to the petitioners. It is

stated that all formalities required for grant of licence have

been complied with in full by the petitioners. It is further

submitted that there are specific checks and measures in force

and the Oil Companies are enabled to access all necessary WP(C).12202 & 13363 of 2018 9 information with regard to the retail dealers as well as the licences. It is

stated that the income-tax returns of the petitioners would reveal much

about their financial activities and would contain information which is

completely unconnected with the dealership. It is stated that the details

of income-tax returns, sales-tax returns and Bank details are completely

unnecessary for the continuation of Dispensing Pump and Selling Licence

agreement entered into by the petitioners with the public sector Oil

Companies. It is stated that an ultimatum has been issued by the

respondents stating that they will stop supplying petroleum products to

the petitioners, if the required documents are not submitted. Relying on

the decisions of the Apex Court in District Registrar and Collector v.

Canara Bank [(2005)1 SCC 496], Ram Rethmalani v. Union of India

[( 2011)8 SCC 1] and K.S.Puttaswamy 's case (supra), learned counsel

for the petitioners would contend that the compulsory requirement that

the petitioners should furnish private information relating to them for the

continuance of the licence agreement is completely unjustified and is

violative of their valuable right to privacy. 2. A counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of respondents 2 and

3 as well as by the 4th respondent. It is stated in the counter affidavit

filed by respondents 2 and 3 that no personal details of the petitioners

are being sought for by the respondents. It is stated at paragraph 3 of

the counter affidavit of respondents 2 and 3 as follows: 3. It is stated that the requirement for annual return has been in

force from 2013-2014 and that more than 99% of the dealers including

the 1st petitioner and several members of the 16 th petitioner in

W.P(C).No.13363 of 2018 have submitted returns as required. It is stated

that this aspect had been considered earlier by this Court by Exhibits R2(a),

R2(b), R2(c) and R2(d) judgments. 4. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents would

submit that it is clear that what is required is only the details regarding

the financial transactions of the dealership and no private information

unconnected with the dealership is being sought for by the respondents. 5. The counter affidavit filed on behalf of the 4 th respondent and 5th

respondent would also make it clear that the dealer annual returns as

contemplated by the respondents are for the year 2012-2013 onwards
 WP(C).12202 & 13363 of 2018 11

and the requirement is only with regard to income-tax returns sales-tax

returns and Bank statements of the dealership in question. It is stated

that dealership agreements entered into by the petitioners with the Oil

Companies had also specific clauses with regard to the disclosure of the

required information to the Corporation. It is contended that the details

are required to check any benami transactions with regard to the

dealership in question and the petitioners have agreed to disclose all

necessary details while availing the benefit to the dealers. It is stated

that the present contention that details unconnected with the dealership

are being required to be furnished is completely misconceived in view of

the clear wordings in Exhibit P2 circular as well as the requirements of

the DAR as stated in the counter affidavit. 6. I have considered the contentions advanced. The concern of the

petitioners appears to be with regard disclosure of personal details

sought for by the respondents which has no rational nexus to the

conduct of the petroleum dealership awarded to them. It is further

contended that their income-tax returns and Bank statements are

materials which are of personal nature which is completely unconnected

with the requirement of the Oil Companies. It is contended that there is

chance of the data being leaked from the data base of the Companies

which is a serious concern to right of privacy of the petitioners. It is

contended that in cases where the dealership is run as personal

proprietorship, the details sought for, if provided, would amount to
 WP(C).12202 & 13363 of 2018 12

infringement on privacy of the concerned persons and is therefore not

warranted. 7. From an examination of Exhibits P2 and P3 produced along with

the writ petitions, it is clear that what is sought for is only the sales-tax

returns, income-tax returns and Bank statements for the concerned

financial years in respect of the dealership awarded by the respective

public sector Oil Companies. The petitioners, who are retail dealers, are

bound by the agreement executed between them and the Oil Companies

in question. What is sought for by the circulars challenged herein are only

the details with regard to the dealership in question and no personal

details which are unconnected with the dealership are sought for. 8. I am of the opinion that the concern of the petitioners that their

personal details would be disclosed and that there is a chance of further

disclosure of these details is completely unwarranted in view of the fact

that there are no personal details of any nature sought for apart from the

income-tax returns, sales-tax returns and Bank statements with respect

to the dealership. The decisions relied on by the petitioners do not

preclude the requirement by the public sector Oil Companies that the

petitioners should make due disclosure necessary for preventing any

benami transactions or the benami conduct of dealership awarded by the

said Companies. I am unable to find any reason for the apprehension of

the petitioners that unconnected personal details are being sought for

and that such details may be put to use as against them. The petitioners' WP(C).12202 & 13363 of 2018 13 contention that their income-tax returns would contain other details

regarding their personal transactions which is completely unconnected

with the dealership also cannot be accepted, since the income-tax

returns are consolidated documents and the requirement that they be

produced cannot be held to be completely irrational or unconnected with

the dealership. The petitioners have voluntarily availed dealership from

the Oil Companies and are therefore liable to provide the details as

sought for by them in terms of the agreement. 9. The contention that the requirement as provided in Exhibits P2

and P3 violates the personal rights of the petitioners is therefore without

substance and the reliefs sought for cannot be granted. However, in case

the petitioners have any specific complaint with regard to the nature of

the documents sought for by them and in case they can point out any

instance where the the documents sought for have no connection with

the dealership in question or the agreement executed by them, those

individual dealers who are aggrieved by specific demands can approach

the respondents filing a representation pointing out their difficulty in

producing any personal data sought for and seeking consideration of any

alternate arrangements. In case a representation of that nature is filed by

any of the petitioners or members of the 16 th petitioner in

W.P(C).No.13363 of 2018, the same shall be considered by the

respondents and orders shall be passed thereon after hearing the

persons who have filed such representation as well. It is made clear that
 WP(C).12202 & 13363 of 2018 14

the details including income-tax returns, sales-tax returns and Bank

statements in respect of the dealership as sought for are liable to be

furnished by the petitioners. However, three weeks time will be granted

for the petitioners to produce the same, in case, such returns have not

already been submitted. The writ petition is ordered accordingly. Sd/- ANU SIVARAMAN
 JUDGE

vgs WP(C).12202 & 13363 of 2018 15 APPENDIX OF WP(C) 12202/2018
PETITIONER'S/S EXHIBITS: