(29.11.2022) 1. The issue under consideration arising out of the second appeal dated 28.11.2020
include non-receipt of the following information sought by the appellant through the RTI
application dated 19.06.2020 and first appeal dated 01.10.2020:- Butin that agency columns Allahabad bank details was not printed especially in
 Salem are [LIC OF INDIA SALEM DIVISION] in that agent columns "MY
 NAME AND MY PERSONAL MOBILE NUMBER WAS PRINTED"!!!
 HOW??? You want proof?? I am ready to submit the sample image to you..... Now he sought additional information on the following points: Continuity and payment of Incentives". Are you noted that LICI clearly agreed
 my designation it is very clear I am FSE in LIC OF INDIA. I agreed I have
 targets and I receive the incentives in the performance basis...but it is not
 answer for my letter. In which angle this content relate with your letter which
 you sent to the LICI because this is the Employer and Employee mater. (v) LICI also mention "The Bank agency code is also available under the head
 Agency code in the policy bond". Yes Allahabad BankAgency code [8000241L]
 is available in the Agency code Column. Are you noted that LICI printed "MY NAME IN AGENCY NAME' ALSO THEY
 PRINTED MY PERSONAL MOBILE NUMBER IN AGENT'S
 MOBILE/LANDLINE NUMBER'.As per LICI reply it is clear I am the FSE in
 LICI but they mention my name and personal mobile number in the agency
 related columns are you realize in that place actually your Allahabad bank
 name and Allahabad bank contact number are required to print but LICI
 mention my details??? WHY?? Actually, who is the agent ME?? OR
 ALLAHABAD BANK??If your bank name and contact number mention in the
 bond mean I did not raise the question but LICI mention MY NAME AND MY
 PERSONAL MOBILE NUMBER DETAILS IN THE THIRD PARTY BONDS
 WHICH PROPOSAL'S COMPLETED IN YOUR BANK AGENCY CODE!!! (vi) LIC also mention "The data captured in the proposal form gets reflected in the
 policy bond."Are you accepting his words?? Because their reply is very clear
 that "Date captured in the proposal form gets reflected" it means "MY NAME
 [V S S KRISHAN] AND MY PERSONAL MOBILE NUMBER [9790750692] IS
 REGISTED AS AGENCY NAME AND AGENT MOBILE NUMBER". If in the
 proposal is completed in your bank agency code your bank receive the
 commission from the LICI but in the same policy bond my name and my
 personal what I get?? (vii) Why My Name & MY Personal Mobile Number mention in your customers
 policy bond which is completed in your Bank agency code!! (viii) If my details [Data] is reflected from the proposal form means are you
 "EXAMINE THE PROPOSAL FORMS?? IF YES THEN GIVE ME THE COPY
 OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE ABOVE POLICY". NOTE: 2. Succinctly facts of the case are that the appellant filed an application dated
19.06.2020 under the Right to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central Public
Information Officer (CPIO), Indian Bank, Chennai, seeking aforesaid information. The
CPIO vide letter dated 23.09.2020 replied to the appellant. Aggrieved by the same, the
appellant filed first appeal dated 01.10.2020. The First Appellate Authority (FAA) vide
order dated 02.11.2020 disposed of the first appeal. Aggrieved by that, the appellant filed
second appeal dated 28.11.2020 before the Commission which is under consideration. 3. The appellant has filed the instant appeal dated 28.11.2020inter alia on the
grounds that reply given by the CPIO was not satisfactory. The appellant requested the
Commission to direct the CPIO to provide the complete information and take necessary
action as per Section 20 (1) of the RTI Act. 4. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 23.09.2020 and the same is reproduced as
under :- inferences/hypothetical situation or conditional replies are not be covered within the definition of
 information under RTI Act, 2005 . This does not relate to Bank. LIC letter dated 01.02.2020 is enclosed as Annexure
 II which explains the information sought by the applicant. No information sought as per Section 2(f) of the RTI Act, 2005. (vii) Queries seeking confirmation/validation/explanation/clarification/reasons/
 drawing of inferences/hypothetical situation or conditional replies are not covered
 within the definition of information a defined under section 2 (f) under RTI Act,
 2005 . Allahabad Bank was the Corporate agent of LICI (viii) Queries seeking confirmation/validation/explanation/clarification/reasons/drawing of
 inferences/hypothetical situation or conditional replies are not covered within the definition of
 information a defined under section 2 (f) under RTI Act . However, refer Annexure II. (ix) The information sought does not pertain to our Bank, LICI response dated
 01.02.2020 is enclosed as Annexure II (x) & (xi)The information sought relates to LICI. As Erstwhile Allahabad Bank has
 provided reply to similar queries raised by the applicant through his RTI
 application, vide their reply letter dated 10.02.2020-the applicant is informed
 that it shall be referred. Further, printing his mobile number and name on the
 Bond shall be taken up directly with LIC of India which is also another public
 authority. (xi) Copy of the email dated 27.05.2020 was received at Indian Bank Customer
 Service Cell, [email protected] on 27.05.2020. (xii) No information is available on record. (xiii) No information is available on record. (xiv) No information is available on record

The FAA vide order dated 02.11.2020 agreed with the reply given by the CPIO. 5. The appellant and on behalf of the respondent Ms Sreeja Rani, Chief Manager,
Indian Bank, Chennai, attended the hearing through video conference. 5.1. The appellant inter alia submitted that his personal details like name & mobile
number was printed in the LIC bond. He stated that when they enquired from the bank,
they informed that the data captured in the proposal form gets reflected in the policy
bond. He stated that erstwhile Allahabad Bank was corporate agent of the LIC before
01.04.2020. Therefore, he sought aforesaid information from the respondent bank
however the reply given by the respondent was incomplete and evasive. 5.2. The respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that they had
already provided point-wise information/reply to the appellant vide letters dated
23.09.2020 and 02.11.2020. They further submitted that most of the queries raised by the
appellant was in the form of queries which did not fall within the definition of
"information" as defined under section 2 (f) of the RTI Act. They contended that if the
name and other personal details of the appellant was printed in the LIC bonds of
policyholders then rectification could be done from the LIC office only not from the
respondent bank. 6. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both the parties and perusal of records, observed that due reply was given by the
respondent vide their letters dated 23.09.2020 and 02.11.2020. Most of the information
raised by the appellant was in the form of queries which did not fall within the definition
of "information" as defined under section 2 (f) of the RTI Act. Perusal of the records Page 6 of 7 revealed that the appellant had grievance with regard to printing of his personal details
on the LIC bonds and for rectification he may approach before the concerned public
authority. That being so and the reply having been provided there appears to be no public
interest in further prolonging the matter. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- (Suresh Chandra) (सुसुरेशचं ा)
 ा
 सूचनाआयु )
 Information Commissioner (सू
 दनांक/Date: 29.11.2022
Authenticated true copy

R. Sitarama Murthy (आर. सीताराममूत )
 उपपंजीयक)
Dy. Registrar (
011-26181927(०११-२६१८१९२७)

Addresses of the parties: