Major e-commerce food business operators like Swiggy and Zomato* have been asked to furnish details about their consumer grievance redressal mechanism within 15 days, according to a press release shared by the government. The Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) has also asked the companies to submit a proposal on how they can improve this framework.

Why it matters: The popularity of food aggregators has surged in recent years as people are forced to stay indoors on account of the pandemic. The popularity has also led to an increase in the number of complaints from consumers casting spotlight on business practices of these companies.

Where was this decision made: The companies were instructed during a meeting chaired by the secretary of the department, Rohit Kumar Singh. The meeting was held to discuss several issues affecting the consumers of these companies.

Who all attended the meeting: The meeting saw attendance of major online food business operators such as Swiggy and Zomato.

What was discussed during the meeting: The issues raised by consumers in their complaints were discussed during the meeting.

How many complaints were received by DoCA: It was revealed that the National Consumer Helpline registered over 3,631 and 2,828 grievances against Swiggy and Zomato respectively.

What were the issues raised by consumers: The issues raised in these complaints touched upon the following-

Have you faced any such issues with delivery services? Leave a comment

What did the companies say: The operators informed the government that the prices of food items are decided by the restaurants and not the platforms.

CCI’s investigation into food aggregators: The Competition Commission of India (CCI) said that there “exists a prima facie case with respect to some of the conduct of Zomato and Swiggy, which requires an investigation,” in an order on April 4.

What are problems highlighted by the NRAI in the past: The association had flagged issues such as deep discounting, high commission charges to food aggregators in 2019 in a letter sent to all food aggregators.

*Disclaimer: This author was alloted shares in Zomato’s IPO.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event