Appearance: E/87150/2018 2 2. Denial of Cenvat Credit on courier service utilized for delivery

of goods at the buyer's premises, is the subject matter of present

dispute. The authorities below have denied the Cenvat Credit, holding

that place of removal in case of the appellant is the factory gate and

services availed upto such point should be considered as input service

for the purpose of Cenvat Credit and such point cannot be extended

beyond the factory gate. 3. The learned advocate for the appellant submits that the

appellant is not contesting disallowance of Cenvat Credit taken on the

courier service. However, he submits that the interest amount

confirmed and penalties imposed in the adjudication order and upheld

in the impugned order is not legal and proper in as much as the period

of dispute is covered under the post amended provisions of Rule 14 of

the Cenvat rules and that there is no element of suppression, fraud etc.

on the part of the appellant, in taking irregular Cenvat Credit. 4. The learned DR appearing for the revenue reiterated the

findings recorded in the impugned order and further relied on

judgment dated 01.02.2018 of Hon'ble Supreme Court delivered in

the case of Ultra Tech Cement Ltd. (Civil appeal no. 11261 of 2016),

to state that courier service utilized by the appellant for removal of

goods beyond the place of removal should not be admissible for the

Cenvat benefit. E/87150/2018 3 5. Heard both sides and perused the records. 6. The issue with regard to availment of Cenvat Credit on

GTA/courier service for delivery of goods at the buyers premises is no

more res integra, in view of judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court

relied upon by learned DR in the case of Ultratech Cements Ltd

(Supra). Thus, I am in agreement with the impugned order, so far as it

denied the Cenvat benefit on the courier service. On perusal of the

case records, I find that the appellant had sufficient balance in its

Cenvat account during the disputed period. Thus, it is evident that the

disputed credit had not been utilized by the appellant for payment of

Central Excise duty on the final product cleared by it. Therfore, under

the amended provisions of Rule 14 of the Cenvat Credit rules, 2004,

since the credit has not been utilized, no interest shall be demanded

from the appellant. Further, it is not a case that taking of regular

credit by the appellant is owing to the reason of fraud, collusion,

suppression of facts etc., with intent to defraud the Government

revenue. Since the appellant had availed the credit based on the

earlier circular issued by the CBEC, it cannot be said that the

appellant had indulged into the fraudulent activity. Thus, the

provisions of Rule 15(2) of the rules read with Section 11 of the Act

cannot be invoked for imposition penalty. 7. In view of the above discussions, the impugned order, so far as
 E/87150/2018 4 it denied the Cenvat benefit on courier service, sustains. Interest and

penalty confirmed therein is set aside. 8. In the result, the appeal is partly allowed to the extent of setting

aside the interest and penalty confirmed on the appellant. (Pronounced & Dictated in Court)

 (S.K. Mohanty)
 Member (Judicial)

HK