SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Standing Committee on Finance (SCoF) which examined the Bill to convert the UIDAI into a statutory authority dealt a body blow to the Aadhaar project[Old,December 2011]
DATE: 2017-03-26
SCORE: 30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/61ksnq/standing_committee_on_finance_scof_which_examined/

--- POST TEXT ---

[Full report](http://164.100.47.134/lsscommittee/Finance/42%20Report.pdf)

[Medianama summay](http://www.medianama.com/2011/12/223-the-lowdown-indias-unique-id-project-unraveled-by-standing-committee/)

Below are the observations/recommendations

1. The Committee have carefully examined the written information
furnished to them and heard the views for and against the National
Identification Authority of India (NIDAI) Bill from various quarters such as
the Ministry of Planning, the Unique Identification Authority of India
(UIDAI), the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and experts.
The clearance of the Ministry of Law &amp; Justice for issuing aadhaar
numbers, pending passing the Bill by Parliament, on the ground that
powers of the Executive are co-extensive with the legislative power of the
Government and that the Government is not debarred from exercising its
Executive power in the areas which are not regulated by the legislation
does not satisfy the Committee. The Committee are constrained to point
out that in the instant case, since the law making is underway with the bill
being pending, any executive action is as unethical and violative of
Parliament‟s prerogatives as promulgation of an ordinance while one of
the Houses of Parliament being in session.
2. The Committee are surprised that while the country is on one hand
facing a serious problem of illegal immigrants and infiltration from across
the borders, the National Identification Authority of India Bill, 2010
proposes to entitle every resident to obtain an aadhaar number, apart
from entitling such other category of individuals as may be notified from
time to time. This will, they apprehend, make even illegal immigrants
entitled for an aadhaar number. The Committee are unable to understand
the rationale of expanding the scheme to persons who are not citizens, as
this entails numerous benefits proposed by the Government. The
Committee have received a number of suggestions for restricting the
scope of the UID scheme only to the citizens and for considering better
options available with the Government by issuing Multi-Purpose National
Identity Cards (MNICs) as a more acceptable alternative.

3. The Committee observe that prima facie the issue of unique
identification number, which has been referred to as “aadhaar number” to
individuals residing in India and other classes of individuals under the
Unique Identification (UID) Scheme is riddled with serious lacunae and
concern areas which have been identified as follows:-

 (a) The UID scheme has been conceptualized with no clarity of
purpose and leaving many things to be sorted out during the
course of its implementation; and is being implemented in a
directionless way with a lot of confusion. The scheme which
was initially meant for BPL families has been extended for all
residents in India and to certain other persons. The Empowered
Group of Ministers (EGoM), constituted for the purpose of
collating the two schemes namely, the UID and National
Population Register(NPR), and to look into the methodology and
specifying target for effective completion of the UID scheme,
failed to take concrete decision on important issues such as (a)
identifying the focused purpose of the resident identity
database; (b) methodology of collection of data; (c) removing
the overlapping between the UID scheme and NPR; (d)
conferring of statutory authority to the UIDAI since its inception;
(e) structure and functioning of the UIDAI; (f) entrusting the
collection of data and issue of unique identification number and
national identification number to a single authority instead of
the present UIDAI and its reconciliation with National
Registration Authority;

 (b) The need for conferring of statutory authority to the UIDAI felt by
the Government way back in November, 2008, but was deferred
for more than two years for no reason. In this regard, the
Ministry of Planning have informed the Committee that till the
time Parliament passes the NIDAI Bill, crucial matters impinging 
on security and confidentiality of information will be covered by
the relevant laws. The Committee are at a loss to understand as
to how the UIDAI, without statutory power, could address key
issues concerning their basic functioning and initiate
proceedings against the defaulters and penalize them;

 (c) The collection of biometric information and its linkage with
personal information of individuals without amendment to the
Citizenship Act, 1955 as well as the Citizenship (Registration of
Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003,
appears to be beyond the scope of subordinate legislation,
which needs to be examined in detail by Parliament;

 (d) Continuance of various existing forms of identity and the
requirement of furnishing „other documents‟ for proof of
address, even after issue of aadhaar number, would render the
claim made by the Ministry that aadhaar number is to be used as
a general proof of identity and proof of address meaningless;

 (e) In addition to aadhaar numbers being issued by the UIDAI, the
issuance of smart cards containing information of the
individuals by the registrars is not only a duplication but also
leads to ID fraud as prevalent in some countries; and

 (f) The full or near full coverage of marginalized sections for
issuing aadhaar numbers could not be achieved mainly owing to
two reasons viz. (i) the UIDAI doesn‟t have the statistical data
relating to them; and (ii) estimated failure of biometrics is
expected to be as high as 15% due to a large chunk of
population being dependent on manual labour.

4. The Committee regret to observe that despite the presence of
serious difference of opinion within the Government on the UID scheme
as illustrated below, the scheme continues to be implemented in an 
overbearing manner without regard to legalities and other social
consequences:-

 (i) The Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) have
expressed concern that lack of coordination is leading to
duplication of efforts and expenditure among at least six
agencies collecting information (NPR, MGNREGS, BPL
census, UIDAI, RSBY and Bank Smart Cards);

 (ii) The Ministry of Home Affairs are stated to have raised
serious security concern over the efficacy of introducer
system, involvement of private agencies in a large scale
in the scheme which may become a threat to national
security; uncertainties in the UIDAI‟s revenue model;

 (iii) The National Informatics Centre (NIC) have pointed out
that the issues relating to privacy and security of UID data
could be better handled by storing in a Government data
centre;

 (iv) The Ministry of Planning have expressed reservation over
the merits and functioning of the UIDAI; and the necessity
of collection of iris image;

 (v) Involvement of several nodal appraising agencies which
may work at cross-purpose; and

 (vi) Several Government agencies are collecting biometric(s)
information in the name of different schemes.

5. The Committee are also unhappy to observe that the UID scheme
lacks clarity on many issues such as even the basic purpose of issuing
“aadhaar” number. Although the scheme claims that obtaining aadhaar
number is voluntary, an apprehension is found to have developed in the
minds of people that in future, services / benefits including food
entitlements would be denied in case they do not have aadhaar number. 
It is also not clear as to whether possession of aadhaar number
would be made mandatory in future for availing of benefits and services.
Even if the aadhaar number links entitlements to targeted beneficiaries, it
may not ensure that beneficiaries have been correctly identified. Thus,
the present problem of proper identification would persist.
It is also not clear that the UID scheme would continue beyond the
coverage of 200 million of the total population, the mandate given to the
UIDAI. In case, the Government does not give further mandate, the whole
exercise would become futile.

6. Though there are significant differences between the identity
system of other countries and the UID scheme, yet there are lessons from
the global experience to be learnt before proceeding with the
implementation of the UID scheme, which the Ministry of Planning have
ignored completely. For instance, the United Kingdom shelved its
Identity Cards Project for a number of reasons, which included:- 

 (a) huge cost involved and possible cost overruns; 

 (b) too complex; 

 (c) untested,
unreliable and unsafe technology; 

 (d) possibility of risk to the safety and
security of citizens; and 

 (e) requirement of high standard security
measures, which would result in escalating the estimated operational
costs. In this context, the Report of the London School of Economics‟
Report on UK‟s Identity Project inter-alia states that “…..identity systems
may create a range of new and unforeseen problems……the risk of failure
in the current proposals is therefore magnified to the point where the
scheme should be regarded as a potential danger to the public interest
and to the legal rights of individuals”. As these findings are very much
relevant and applicable to the UID scheme, they should have been
seriously considered.

7. The UID scheme facilitates the UIDAI and the registrars to create
database of information of people of the country. Considering the huge
database size and possibility of misuse of information, the Committee are of the view that enactment of national data protection law, which is at
draft stage with the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and
Pensions, is a pre-requisite for any law that deals with large scale
collection of information from individuals and its linkages across
separate databases. In the absence of data protection legislation, it
would be difficult to deal with the issues like access and misuse of
personal information, surveillance, profiling, linking and matching of data
bases and securing confidentiality of information etc.
8. The Committee note that the Ministry of Planning have admitted
that 

 (a) no committee has been constituted to study the financial
implications of the UID scheme; and 

 (b) comparative costs of the aadhaar
number and various existing ID documents are also not available. 
The Committee also note that Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the UID
Scheme has been done much later in April, 2011. The Committee thus
strongly disapprove of the hasty manner in which the UID scheme has
been approved. Unlike many other schemes / projects, no
comprehensive feasibility study, which ought to have been done before
approving such an expensive scheme, has been done involving all
aspects of the UID scheme including cost-benefit analysis, comparative
costs of aadhaar number and various forms of existing identity, financial
implications and prevention of identity theft, for example, using hologram
enabled ration card to eliminate fake and duplicate beneficiaries.
9. The Committee are afraid that the scheme may end up being
dependent on private agencies, despite contractual agreement made by
the UIDAI with several private vendors. As a result, the beneficiaries
may be forced to pay over and above the charges to be prescribed by the
UIDAI for availing of benefits and services, which are now available free
of cost.

10. The Committee find that the scheme is full of uncertainty in
technology as the complex scheme is built up on untested, unreliable
technology and several assumptions. Further, despite adverse
observations by the UIDAI‟s Biometrics Standards Committee on error
rates of biometrics, the UIDAI is collecting the biometric information. It is
also not known as to whether the proof of concept studies and
assessment studies undertaken by the UIDAI have explored the
possibilities of maintaining accuracy to a large level of enrolment of 1.2
billion people. Therefore, considering the possible limitations in
applications of technology available now or in the near future, the
Committee would believe that it is unlikely that the proposed objectives of
the UID scheme could be achieved.
11. The Committee feel that entrusting the responsibility of verification
of information of individuals to the registrars to ensure that only genuine
residents get enrolled into the system may have far reaching
consequences for national security. Given the limitation of any
mechanism such as a security audit by an appropriate agency that would
be setup for verifying the information etc., it is not sure as to whether
complete verification of information of all aadhaar number holders is
practically feasible; and whether it would deliver the intended results
without compromising national security. As the National Identity Cards
to citizens of India are proposed to be issued on the basis of aadhaar
numbers, the possibility of possession of aadhaar numbers by illegal
residents through false affidavits / introducer system cannot be ruled out.
12. The Committee take note that the Ministry of Home Affairs have
alleged that some of the registrars have not adhered to the laid down
procedures under UIDAI which renders the Memoranda of Understanding
(MoU) signed between the UIDAI and the registrars meaningless; and it
compromises the security and confidentiality of information of aadhaar 
number holders. Even, according to the latest media reports,
controversies between the Ministry of Home Affairs and the UIDAI over
issues such as the manner and processes followed by the UIDAI,
duplication of efforts between NPR and aadhaar, and security of data still
remain unresolved.

13. In view of the afore-mentioned concerns and apprehensions about
the UID scheme, particularly considering the contradictions and
ambiguities within the Government on its implementation as well as
implications, the Committee categorically convey their unacceptability of
the National Identification Authority of India Bill, 2010 in its present form.
The data already collected by the UIDAI may be transferred to the National
Population Register (NPR), if the Government so chooses. The
Committee would, thus, urge the Government to reconsider and review
the UID scheme as also the proposals contained in the Bill in all its
ramifications and bring forth a fresh legislation before Parliament.