Hon'ble Dilip Gupta, J. (Per Hon'ble Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, C.J.)
 

 
The petitioners have challenged the constitutional validity of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 20121. These regulations have been framed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India2 in exercise of statutory powers conferred by two legislative enactments: the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 19563 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 19924. The first petitioner before the Court is a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and is an association representing the interests of stock exchange brokers whose members are stated to have been engaged in trading shares and securities on the Regional Stock Exchange at Kanpur. The second petitioner is its President, while the third petitioner is a trading Member and Director of the governing body of the Uttar Pradesh Stock Exchange Limited, a body corporate, which is impleaded as the second respondent to these proceedings. The challenge has been confined at the hearing to the validity of Regulations 6, 7, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21(1)(b), 23, 24 and 25. The validity of the regulations has been challenged on four grounds: The provisions under challenge
 
	The SECC Regulations are referable to the provisions of Sections 4 , 8A and 31 of the SCRA and Sections 11 and 31 of the SEBI Act. Recognition Regulation 3 provides that no person shall conduct, organize or assist in organizing any stock exchange or clearing corporation unless he has obtained recognition from SEBI in accordance with the SCRA, rules and regulations. A stock exchange, which was recognized under the SCRA, at the commencement of the regulations is deemed to have been recognized under the regulations. An existing clearing house of a recognized stock exchange was allowed to continue for a period of three months from the commencement of the regulations or, if an application was made under Regulation 4 for recognition, till the disposal of the application. Regulation 4 provides for an application for recognition as a stock exchange. Regulation 6(1) stipulates that an application for recognition has to be accompanied by copies of the memorandum of association, articles of association, bye laws and other documents provided in Sections 3 and 4 of the SCRA, Rule 5 of the Rules and the Regulations. The application is also to be accompanied by agreements entered into by the applicant with recognized stock exchanges and depositories. Clauses (1) and (2) of Regulation 7 govern, inter alia, applications seeking recognition as a stock exchange or clearing corporation. Clauses (1), (2) and (3) of Regulation 7 provides as follows: Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the term "demutualised" means that the ownership and management of the applicant is segregated from the trading rights or clearing rights, as the case may be, in terms of these regulations. (3) An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall, in addition to conditions as specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:-- Under Regulation 9 , SEBI, after considering the application and on being satisfied that the applicant has complied with the conditions laid down in Regulation 7 and is eligible to act as a recognized stock exchange, is empowered to grant recognition under Section 4 of the SCRA in the interest of the securities market. New worth
 
	Chapter III of the SECC Regulations deals with the net worth of stock exchanges and clearing corporations. Regulation 14(1) contains a stipulation to the following effect: A similar requirement is imposed in respect of the recognition of a clearing corporation by clause (2). Under clause (4), a recognized stock exchange is not allowed to distribute profits in any manner to its shareholders, unless the net worth requirement is achieved. Explanation I defines the expression "net worth of a stock exchange" as follows: Ownership
 
	Chapter IV of the SECC Regulations prescribes requirements in regard to the ownership of stock exchanges and clearing corporations. Regulation 16 (1) contains a stipulation that the shareholding or voting rights of any person in a recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation shall not exceed the limits specified in the Chapter at any point of time. Under clause (2), the shareholding is to include any instrument owned or controlled, directly or indirectly which provides for entitlement to equity or rights over equity at any future date. Regulation 17 is to the following effect: Explanation.- For the purposes of clause (c), the acquisition of shares in a recognised stock exchange through secondary market shall be construed as follows:-- Hence, under Regulation 17 restrictions have been laid down under which: Fit and Proper criterion Regulation 19 defines the norms of eligibility for the acquisition or holding of shares. Under clause (1) of Regulation 19 , there is a prohibition on a person acquiring or holding equity shares of a recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation directly or indirectly, unless "he is a fit and proper person". Under clause (2), a person who acquires equity shares so that his holding exceeds two percent of the paid up equity capital share has to seek approval of SEBI within 15 days of the acquisition, failing which the excess shareholding has to be divested. Finally, under clause (6) of Regulation 19 , a person who holds more than two percent of the paid up equity share capital has to file a declaration within fifteen days at the end of every financial year, that he complies with the 'fit and proper' criteria. Regulation 20 elucidates "fit and proper criteria" in the following terms: Under Regulation 21 , every recognized stock exchange has to disclose to SEBI its shareholding on a quarterly basis including the names of ten largest shareholders together with the number and percentage of shares held and the names of shareholders falling under Regulations 17 and 18, who had acquired shares in that quarter. Governance
 
	Chapter V of the SECC Regulations makes provisions for governance of stock exchanges and clearing corporations. Regulation 23 contains stipulations about the composition of governing board. Under clause (1), the governing board of every recognized stock exchange is to include: The stipulations that have been contained in Regulation 23 are: Regulation 24 of SECC Regulations lays down conditions for the appointment of directors. These conditions are: The appointment of a managing director is under Regulation 25 (1) subject to approval of SEBI. Renewals and terminations similarly require SEBI's approval. Under clause (2), the stock exchange is empowered to determine the qualifications, manner of appointment, terms and conditions of appointment and other procedural formalities for the selection and appointment of a managing director, subject to guidelines issued by SEBI. The tenure of a managing director is not to exceed five years and is to be not less than three years. Clause (4) of Regulation 25 , inter alia, contains the prohibitions on a managing director being a shareholder, trading member or holding a position concurrently in a subsidiary of or an associated entity of a recognized stock exchange: SEBI, under clause (6) of Regulation 25 is empowered suo motu to remove or terminate the appointment of a managing director after a reasonable opportunity of being heard, if it so deems fit in the interest of securities market. We now proceed to deal with the constitutional challenges. SCRA
 
	The post World War - II boom in stock exchanges between 1945 and 1946 brought home the need and urgency for a reform of stock exchanges across the country. The Bill was introduced following the recommendations of the Gorwala Committee. The scheme of regulation contemplated in the Bill basically provided for (i) prior recognition of stock exchanges, subject to the fulfillment by them of conditions relating to membership, rules and bye-laws; (ii) a general control over trading methods and practices which was to be exercised through the powers conferred on the Central Government to approve of the rules, regulations and byelaws of stock exchanges and to make or amend them. The Central Government was empowered to regulate stock exchanges by calling for information in respect of the affairs of stock exchanges and to direct investigations, if they were considered necessary in the interest of trading or in public interest. Restrictions were imposed on certain transactions in securities carried on in and outside recognized stock exchanges and a prohibition was imposed on dealing with options in securities. Section 4 of the SCRA provided for recognition of stock exchanges by the Central Government. Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 4 provide as follows: Section 5 provides for withdrawal of recognition by the Central Government in the interest of the trade or in public interest. Section 7A empowers recognized stock exchanges, inter alia, to make rules restricting voting rights. Sub-section (1) of Section 7A is as follows: Under Section 8 , the Central Government is empowered, where it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, to issue an order, accompanied by reasons, directing recognized stock exchanges generally or a particular exchange, to make any rules or to amend the rules already made in respect of matters specified in sub-section (2) of Section 3 pertaining to the application for recognition. Section 9 empowers recognized stock exchanges to make bye-laws with the previous approval of SEBI for the regulation and control of contracts. (The reference to SEBI, as we shall examine is a subsequent legislative amendment). Section 10 empowers SEBI to make bye-laws or to amend the bye-laws made by a recognized stock exchange after consulting the governing body of the stock exchange where it is necessary or expedient to do so. Section 11 empowers the Central Government to supersede the governing body of a stock exchange after furnishing an opportunity of being heard. The SCRA was subjected to legislative amendment at various stages particularly so as to comprehend the regulatory powers which were imposed upon SEBI upon the enactment of the SEBI Act in 1992. SEBI was constituted as an expert authority and is vested with statutory functions and duties in relation to the securities market. Section 12A was introduced into the SCRA so as to empower SEBI to issue directions to stock exchanges as well as to companies whose securities are listed or proposed to be listed in a recognized stock exchange, in the interest of investors and of the securities market, if SEBI is satisfied that it is necessary (a) in the interest of investors or orderly development of the securities market; (b) to prevent the affairs of a recognized stock exchange being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of investors or the securities market; or (c) to secure the proper management of a stock exchange. Section 29A20 was introduced by a Parliamentary amendment to enable the Central Government to delegate its powers under the Act (except for the rule making power) to SEBI or to the Reserve Bank of India. Section 29A provides as follows: Section 31 has been amended and, in its present form, empowers SEBI to make regulations consistent with the provisions of the SCRA and the rules to carry out the purposes of the Act. This is to be without prejudice to the provisions contained in Section 30 of the SEBI Act. The regulations, amongst other things, may provide for the manner in which at least 51percent of the equity share capital of a recognized stock exchange is to be held by the public other than the shareholders having trading rights. The SCRA, as it was originally enacted, conferred over-arching regulatory powers upon the Central Government. With the establishment of SEBI and the enactment of the SEBI Act 1992, Parliament envisioned that SEBI would be an expert regulator for the regulation of the market in securities and for defining and regulating the activities of stakeholders who had a vital bearing on the transparent and accountable functioning of the securities' market. The amendments to the SCRA have hence been dovetailed with the statutory provisions under the SEBI Act empowering SEBI to regulate the securities market. In 2005, the principle of corporatization and demutualization of stock exchanges received statutory recognition. Hence, in Section 4A of the SCRA, the legislative amendment conferred significant powers upon SEBI to oversee the achievement of this process. As regards corporatization, a legal succession was provided for recognized stock exchanges into companies incorporated for the purpose of regulating or controlling the business of dealing in securities. As a result of the process of demutualization a segregation was brought about by Parliament between ownership and management on the one hand and the trading rights of members on the other hand, of a recognized stock exchange in accordance with the scheme to be approved by SEBI. The amendments which were made to the SCRA constituted a legislative acknowledgement that SEBI, following the enactment of the SEBI Act was the expert which was being vested with the duty to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. Section 11 of SEBI Act Section 11 (1) of the SEBI Act provides that it shall be the duty of SEBI to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market by such measures as it deems fit. Sub-section (2) which provides illustrations of measures which SEBI may adopt, includes in clause (j): Consequently, the delegation of powers of the Central Government which is contemplated under Section 29A of the SCRA finds a reflection in the corresponding provisions of Section 11 (2) (j) of the SEBI Act. Under Section 30 (1) , SEBI is empowered to make regulations consistent with the provisions of the SEBI Act and the rules made thereunder, to carry out the purposes of the Act. Delegation to SEBI of the powers of Central Government
 
	In exercise of the powers which were conferred by Section 29A of the SCRA, the Central Government issued a notification on 30 July 1992 directing that the powers exercisable by it under Section 4 (5) , Section 7 and Sections 8 , 11 , 12 and 16 were delegated concurrently to SEBI. Another notification for delegation was issued by the Union Government on 13 September 1994. The Press Note which was issued by the Union Ministry of Finance in the Department of Economic Affairs, to explain the reason for the delegation states that: The powers which have been conferred upon SEBI by Section 11 have been construed by the Supreme Court in the recent judgment in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited & Ors. Vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Anr.22 to be "the heart and soul" of the SEBI Act . Construing the width and amplitude of the provisions contained in Section 11 (1) of the SEBI Act, Hon'ble Mr. Justice J.S. Khehar observed as follows: Ultra Vires challenge
 
	Viewed in this background, it is not possible to accede to the submission that the SECC Regulations supplant or are ultra vires the SCRA or the rules which have been framed under it. Rule 3 of the Rules, in fact, contemplates that an application for recognition has to be made to SEBI and not to the Central Government. The regulations which have been framed by SEBI are in exercise of powers conferred by Sections 4 , 8A and 31 of the SCRA. Section 31 of the SCRA expressly confers power upon SEBI to make regulations which are consistent with the Act and the rules, to carry out the purposes of the Act. SEBI, in framing the SECC Regulations, has acted plainly in pursuance of the statutory powers conferred upon it and has not traveled beyond the bounds of the statute. The Regulations are also referable to the provisions of Section 11 and Section 30 of the SEBI Act. SEBI, under Section 11 , is entitled to regulate the securities market by such measures as it think fit to protect the interest of investors and to promote the development of the securities market. The measures which SEBI can adopt, include the discharge of those functions and powers which have been delegated to it by the Central Government under the SCRA. In Chapter II of the Regulations, SEBI has prescribed conditions for recognition of stock exchanges. In Chapter III, SEBI has prescribed net worth requirements. In Chapter IV, SEBI has prescribed requirements in relation to ownership of stock exchanges. Chapter V stipulates norms for governance of stock exchanges. This exercise of framing regulations in pursuance of the subordinate legislative power, which is conferred upon SEBI is within the bounds of the statutute. SEBI has not acted ultra vires, either the SEBI Act or the SCRA. We would be examining in detail the challenges to the regulations on the ground that they violate Article 19 (1) (c) and Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution. It is to those aspects, that we now turn. Jalan Committee Report 
 

 
	Traditionally, stock markets bring together those who demand capital (corporations) and those who supply capital (investors). Stock exchanges provide liquidity for investors to invest and disinvest without significant price variability. Essentially, stock exchanges provide a facility for investors to transact on the securities market and to realise the price for securities traded on them. In this sense, stock exchanges constitute a part of the essential economic infrastructure of a modern economy. Andreas M. Fleckner, in an article published in Fordham Law Review titled 'Stock Exchanges at the Crossroads23 describe stock exchanges as 'market organizers'. In a significant measure, stock exchanges allocate capital. The prices of securities traded in the stock market provide a foundation for an efficient allocation of financial resources by bringing together innumerable investors who seek through their decisions to invest and disinvest, a measure of liquidity. While providing a platform to investors to transact in securities, stock exchanges in the cumulative effect of their functions allocate capital resources. A stock exchange at one level provides a transaction facility for individual investors. At a macro level, stock exchanges determine through the interplay of market forces capital allocation in the economy. Volatality in the stock market disturbs both the equilibrium and balance in the efficient allocation of resources for the economy. Traditionally, stock exchanges provided platforms for transactions in securities on the floor of the exchange where brokers met, negotiated and agreed upon the prices for stock transfers executed for their principals. With modern technology having permeated almost every aspect of life, the trading floor of the stock exchange has become obsolescent. Stock exchanges maintain electronic systems world wide that match orders for buying and selling of shares automatically. Stock exchanges are market organisers. Apart from the function of being market organisers, stock exchanges are (i) information distributors; (ii) regulators of the market which they organise; (iii) involved in setting standards of corporate governance through their listing rules; and (iv) at an institutional level, business enterprises. In the judgment of the Bombay High Court in MCX Stock Exchange Limited Vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Ors.24 delivered by one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J), the role of exchanges as "the first layer of oversight'' was noticed in the following observations: The conflicts of interest, as we shall examine have been issues of serious regulatory concern and intervention. The global financial crisis in 2008 impacted the international economic order besides manifesting itself in serious financial instability in economies across the world. India, as contemporary experience indicates, was not immune from its aftermath. A volatile securities market is a source of grave peril to investor confidence. SEBI constituted a Committee chaired by Dr. Bimal Jalan, former Governor of Reserve Bank of India, to examine issues arising from the ownership and governance of Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs). The report of the Jalan Committee in 2010 adverted to the position of these institutions as constituting "the nucleus of (the) capital allocation system", indispensable for economic growth and constituting a part of the vital economic infrastructure. The Jalan Committee noted that unlike typical financial institutions, the number of stock exchanges, depositories and clearing corporations in an economy is limited due to the nature of their business. Any failure of those institutions could lead to bigger cataclysmic collapses that may result in an overall economic downfall that could potentially extend beyond the boundaries of the securities market and the country. The Jalan Committee characterized the price signals produced by stock markets as partaking of a public good. The price signals produced by these institutions was, in the view of the Committee, something which must be accessible to every one and must be governed by a transparent and efficient market economy. Unless the prices are fair, that would result in the expropriation of unjust profits by any one side to the transaction. The Jalan Committee observed that the nature of the public good that is supplied collectively by market infrastructure institutions is dependent exclusively on the quality and integrity of the process that accompanies its production. Hence, to ensure dependability of the process, some degree of regulatory powers have to reside within these institutions to varying degrees. The Jalan Committee emphasized that the position of MIIs in the country was capable of producing serious conflicts of interest which require SEBI to play an active role so as to ensure a level playing field. The Jalan Committee, in the course of its recommendations, emphasized the need for a dispersed ownership structure that would ensure that a single entity does not acquire a position of dominance. It was in that background that the Committee recommended the imposition of a cap on shareholding. On the composition of the Board for stock exchanges, the Jalan Committee highlighted that there were possibilities of a conflict of interest when shareholders with commercial motives acquire decision making roles in an entity which also performs regulatory functions. In that context, it observed thus: It was in this background that the Jalan Committee opined that no trading or clearing member should be allowed on the board of any stock exchange and the number of public interest directors should be equal at least to the number of shareholder directors without trading interest. At the same time, the experience and expertise of the trading members could be utilized in the form of an Advisory Committee. In justification of imposing net worth requirements, the Jalan Committee explained its rationale thus: Hence, the Committee recommended that stock exchanges must have a net worth of Rs. 100 crores at all times. The view of the Jalan Committee on net worth was that a market infrastructure institution should be a well capitalized entity, so that this net worth is available as a last resort to meet exigencies and to ensure that it is able to remain as a going concern. The Jalan Committee was set up on 6 January 2010. The report of the Committee was submitted on 22 November 2010 after a wide ranging consultation involving all stakeholders. The report was placed on the website of SEBI on 23 November 2010. The Federation of Indian Stock Exchanges furnished its response on 25 December 2010 to SEBI. The agenda for the SEBI Board of 2 April 2012 included the comments of the Jalan Committee and the responses of various stakeholders. SEBI made its recommendations and eventually the regulations were notified with effect from 20 June 2012. MIMPS Regulations 2006
 
	Even before the SECC Regulations were notified in 2012, SEBI had, in the exercise of its regulatory powers, notified in 2006 the Securities Contracts (Regulation ) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006. These regulations, known by the acronym 'MIMPS regulations', were applicable to all recognised stock exchanges in respect of which a scheme for corporatisation or demutualisation had been approved by SEBI under Section 4 (B) of the SEBI Act. The MIMPS regulations, amongst other things, provide: (i) a requirement under Regulation 4 , that a recognised stock exchange shall ensure that at least 51 percent of its equity share capital is held by the public; (ii) a requirement in Regulation 8 , that no resident shall hold, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, more than five percent of the equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange with an enhanced cap of 15 percent for certain institutions such as depositories, banking companies, insurance companies and public financial institutions; (iii) a cap of 49 percent for all persons resident outside India in the equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange under Regulation 8 coupled with caps of 26 percent on holdings acquired through the foreign direct investment route; 23 percent on the holding of FIIs and 5 percent on a foreign investor; (iv) a requirement in Regulation 9 that no person shall hold more than five percent of the paid up equity capital of a recognised stock exchange, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert. Regulation 11(1) (b) imposes an obligation on a recognised stock exchange to monitor and ensure that no transfer or issue of equity shares is made otherwise than in accordance with the regulations; that at least 51 percent of the equity share capital is continuously held by the public and that the restrictions contained in Regulations 8 and 9 are complied with. Under the U.P. Demutualisation Scheme 2005, the second respondent was demutualised. In consequence, ownership and management rights were segregated from the trading rights of members. Under the Scheme and the MIMPS Regulations 2006, the second respondent agreed that at least fifty one percent of the equity shares would be held by the public with a cap of five percent for each individual shareholder. The governing board was recast to limit the number of trading members. Hence, even prior to the enforcement of SECC Regulations, the public share holding of the second respondent was 51 percent. The dilution of shareholding rights was, therefore, as urged by the learned ASG, a fait accompli and there was no challenge either to demutualisation or to the MIMPS Regulations 2006. This analysis would indicate the reasons which led to the issuance of the SECC Regulations. SEBI, in making the regulations, was guided by the overwhelming public interest of protecting the interest of investors and in ensuring the orderly functioning of the securities market. The expert regulator was guided, at every stage, by its own administrative experience in regulating the stock market. The conflicts of interest within stock exchanges, the impact of those conflicts on the stability of the securities market and the grave potential for danger by the concentration of power were within the knowledge of SEBI. That the fears of SEBI were not unreal is a matter borne out by precedent. Only by way of an illustration, a reference may be made to the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Anand Rathi & Ors. Vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Anr.25 where an investigation by SEBI revealed that the President of a stock exchange had called for sensitive price information from the surveillance department to secure private ends. Article 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution Article 19 (1) (c) guarantees to all citizens the right to form associations or unions. The right is subject to the qualification in clause (4) by which nothing in sub-clause shall (i) affect the operation of any existing law insofar as it imposes or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interest of public order or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the sub-clause. As we approach the task of constitutional adjudication, it would be necessary for the Court to bear in mind certain fundamental precepts. First, there is a presumption of constitutionality and associated with it, the burden which lies on a person who assails a law to establish its invalidity. Second, where subordinate legislation is sought to be questioned, it must be shown to suffer from the vice of manifest arbitrariness. Third, in areas of economic or financial regulation, the legislature and its delegate are entitled to a greater degree of latitude. The legislature, on its part, has to lay down a broad policy framework and mandate it into a binding rule of conduct. The task of fleshing out the legislation is performed by subordinate legislation. SEBI as the expert has to regulate the frictions in and foibles of those engaged in the stock market. After all, the law envisages a role for SEBI to guard against the dangers when the rubber meets the road. Where an expert body is the maker of delegated legislation, the experience which it gains particularly in areas such as financial administration and resource allocation, enables it to cope with myriad different situations which may emerge in the practical implementation of legislation. It is left to the delegate of the legislature to find answers to strategies which are utilized to defeat the norms laid down by the law, in order to secure public interest. This is perhaps best exemplified in areas of financial regulation of the securities market where subordinate legislation has to continuously evolve to keep pace with the challenges thrown up by the financial environment and the rapidly changing economic landscape. The reason why courts grant a degree of autonomy and discretion to the financial regulator is because of the realization of the enormous challenges before the regulator on designing regulatory measures and to continuously update them in the light of experiences gained, challenges presented and developments envisioned for the future. So long as the regulator has kept within the bounds of the statute, the court would defer to its expertise. Finally, as a Bench of seven learned Judges of the Supreme Court held in R.S. Joshi etc. Vs. Ajit Mills Ltd. & Anr.26: Now, to Article 19 (1) (c). In All India Bank Employees' Association Vs. The National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes), Bombay, & Ors.27, a bench of seven learned Judges of the Supreme Court, while interpreting Article 19 (1) (c) , held that: The same view was reiterated in a judgment of a constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in M/s. Raghubar Dayal Jai Parkash Vs. Union of India & Ors.28 : The Supreme Court held that while right to form an association is a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution, the right to recognition is not. The right to obtain recognition is a consequence which emanates from the statute which provides for recognition. Consequently, where a legislation or subordinate legislation provides for recognition - recognition resulting in statutory entitlements recognised by the law - the right to obtain recognition is not a concomitant of the right to form an association under Article 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution. Several decisions of the Supreme Court have construed the provisions of Article 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution since the early decisions in All India Employees Association and Raghubar Dayal Jai Prakash (supra). These include: In O.K. Ghosh (supra), the Supreme Court considered the validity of Rule 4B of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1955, under which a government servant was prohibited from joining or continuing to be a member of a service association which had not obtained recognition of the government or whose recognition had been refused or withdrawn by government. The Supreme Court held as follows: In Damyanti Naranga (supra), the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan Act 1962 of the State legislature did not merely regulate the administration of the affairs of the society. The Supreme Court held that what it did was to alter the composition of the society itself. The result of this change in composition was that members who had voluntarily formed the society were compelled to act in that Association with other members who were imposed as members and in whose admission to membership they had no say. In that context, the Supreme Court held as follows: In L.N. Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Changes (supra), the Act of the State legislature took over an institute which had been formed by a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 . Repelling the challenge to constitutional validity, the Supreme Court distinguished the decision in Damyanti Naranga (supra) and held as follows: In Asom Rastrabhasa Prachar Samiti & Anr. Vs. State of Assam & Ors. (supra), the state legislation provided for the taking over of the Samiti which was a registered society. In that context, the Supreme Court held as follows: In C.O.D. Chheoki Employees' Cooperative Society Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court, while repelling the challenge to certain provisions of the U.P. Cooperative Societies Act, 1965 and the Rules, held as follows: The earlier decisions of the Supreme Court were noticed in a later judgment in Dharam Dutt & Ors. (supra), and the principles were summarized as follows: In that case, the Supreme Court considered the constitutional validity of the Indian Council of World Affairs Act, 2001 . The Supreme Court noted that the Act dealt with only with the ICWA, a pre existing body. The new body took over the activities of the pre existing society for running the institution which too was known as the ICWA. Rejecting the challenge to constitutional validity, the Supreme Court held as follows: In Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation Federation (supra), the Supreme Court after adverting to the earlier decisions, held thus: The challenge was on the ground that the Andhra Pradesh Mutually Aided Cooperative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1995 , violated Article 19 (1) (c). The Supreme Court held thus: These decisions clearly lay down that the fundamental right which is guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution, is to form an association. The fundamental right does not extend to guarantee that the objects, purposes or activities of the society which is so formed, shall not be regulated by law except on grounds set out in Article 19 (4). A close analysis of the decisions where the legislation was held to contravene Article 19 (1) (c) by the Supreme Court, would reveal that the vice of the legislation, was that the composition of the association which was formed in pursuance of the fundamental right under Article 19 (1) (c) was fundamentally altered. Thus, in Damyanti Naranga (supra), the existence of the original Sammelan was terminated, all existing members of the original Sammelan were made members of the new Sammelan and many outsiders were also made members. The new members who were enrolled were admitted without the consent of the original members. The erstwhile members were compelled to associate involuntarily with persons with whom they did not choose to associate. Similarly, in Asom Rashtrabhasa (supra), though the enactment was to meet a temporary contingency of taking over the management of the Prachar Samit, the Act failed to make any provision for restoration of the elected body. New members were introduced into the Samiti, no norms were laid down for nominating the government nominees, and elected members were kept away from the control of the Samiti. This distinction was noted in the subsequent decision of the Supreme Court in Dharam Dutt (supra). On the other hand, what the decision in C.O.D. Chheoki Employees Cooperative Society (supra) emphasised is that where persons come together to associate under the umbrella of a legislation such as the Cooperative Societies Act , their rights are governed by the provisions of the statute and membership is subject to the Act, the rules and the bye-laws. Having chosen to seek the benefit of an association which is recognised by a State enactment, persons who choose to associate together by forming an entity which is recognised under the enactment, are necessarily governed by the rights, duties and obligations which are cast by the enactment. This distinction is emphasised in the judgment in the Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation Federation case. The right to form an association cannot be infringed by a forced-imposition of persons in the association. By statutory intervention, the State cannot alter the composition of the association. But when a group of persons gets itself registered under a particular legislative enactment, it subjects itself to the discipline of the law and of the subordinate legislation. Hence, when an association of persons seeks legislative recognition for the purposes of carrying on a business or activity, the legislature can subject that business or activity to regulatory control. Legislation which has a nexus with the preservation of the public interest in the transparent and accountable functioning of the activity or business is clearly permissible an does not violate Article 19 (1) (c). The stock exchange is a vehicle created by individuals or entities which come together to provide a platform for transactions in securities. A regulation of the stock exchange is nothing but a regulation of the platform through which transactions in securities are implemented. Such regulation is permissible because there is a serious element of public interest involved in the activities of stock exchanges. Stock exchanges produce, as the Jalan Committee noted, a public good. The public has a vital interest in ensuring that the determination of the prices of securities and the transactional operations which are put through stock exchanges, are free from taint. Consequently, regulations such as those which have been framed by the SECC Regulations, insofar as they define the conditions for recognition, of minimum net worth, composition of the board of directors, dispersal of ownership and norms for governance, do not infringe the right under Article 19 (1) (c). The regulations govern the antecedents of the business or activity and do not infringe the right to form the association under Article 19 (1) (c). The challenge is, therefore, lacking in substance. That apart, the Court must bear in mind the circumstance that the SECC Regulations do not have a direct or proximate impact on the associational right, if any, of the petitioners. The Uttar Pradesh Stock Exchange, as has been pointed out to the Court by the learned ASG, is a defunct stock exchange on which there has been no trading since 16 August 2010 or there about. SEBI has made it abundantly clear before the Court that there is no impediment for UPSEC Securities Limited, which is a subsidiary of the stock exchange, to continue its functions. This is also evident from the terms of clause 4 of the circular issued by SEBI on 30 May 2012. The first petitioner is a society of traders or brokers allegedly engaged in trading with the second respondent which is a regional stock exchange at Kanpur. The stock exchange is defunct with little or no activity. Be that as it may, we have addressed the constitutional challenges squarely to analyze whether there is any substance in the submission. Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution
 
	The submission of the petitioners is that the regulations are excessively restrictive and would amount to a prohibition. It has been submitted that no regional stock exchange can meet the requirement of a net worth of Rs. 100 crore. The test of proportionality must be applied to a restriction on a fundamental right imposed under Article 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution and the least intrusive means must be adopted. The restrictions on ownership and on voting rights, it is asserted, is abhorrent to the fundamental right under Article 19 (1) (g). Similarly, the dispersal of ownership to the effect that 51 percent of the paid up equity capital be held by the public, it is claimed, would destroy the autonomy of the stock exchange. The provision that no person shall hold share unless he is a fit and proper person, is urged, to be vague and, therefore, destructive of the right to carry on business. Similarly, it has been submitted that the powers which SEBI has assumed over the inclusion of public interest directors would destroy the right to carry on business. The decision of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in State of Madras Vs. V.G. Row36 is the locus classicus on the exposition of the test of reasonableness which must be applied when a law which imposes a restriction on a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19 is questioned. The judgment of Chief Justice Patanjali Shastri, requires that in assessing the reasonableness of the restrictions, the Court must bear in mind several factors amongst them being: A person who challenges the law must, prima facie, show that the restriction is violative of the fundamental right, for if it is, then the burden lies upon the State to establish that the restriction is reasonable37 
 
	A considerable degree of reliance has been placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in Global Energy Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission38 . In that case, the Supreme Court considered the constitutional validity of clauses (b) and (f) of Regulation 6A of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure, Terms and Conditions for Grant of Trading Licence and Other Related Matters) (Amendment) Regulations 2006. These regulations were framed in exercise of powers conferred by the Electricity Act, 2003 . Under clause (b) and (f) of Regulation 6A, a disqualification was imposed in the grant of a licence for inter-State trading as an electricity trader if the applicant was not considered to be a fit and proper person for the grant of a licence for reasons to be recorded in writing. In determining whether the applicant is a fit and proper person, the Commission was empowered to take into account any consideration as it deems fit including but not limited to (i) the financial integrity of the applicant; (ii) competence; (iii) reputation and character; and (iv) efficiency and honesty. The Supreme Court held that a disqualifying statute must be definite and not ambiguous, uncertain or vague. The Supreme Court came to the conclusion that clauses (b) and (f) of Regulation 6A did not meet the test of reasonableness. Regulation 6A, it was emphasized, could not be justified as being in the interest of a consumer because a trader of electricity does not deal with consumers but is merely an intermediary between a generating company and a distribution licensee. As a matter of fact, the attention of the Supreme Court was drawn to the fact that the 'fit and proper person' criterion has been applied in the context of regulations framed by SEBI. The use of that concept in the SEBI regulations was distinguished by the Supreme Court on the ground that the purpose and object of those regulations was not similar to the regulations in question which were framed under the Electricity Act in regard to the grant of a licence to a trader in electricity. This is clear from the observations of the Supreme Court: