03. 1. The petitioner is an accused in connection with
 Cyber Crime & Economic Offences P.S. Case No.131
 of 2023 corresponding to C.T. Case No.2081 of 2023
 for the offences under Sections-419/420 IPC pending
 in the Court of the learned S.D.J.M., Bhubaneswar. 2. The petitioner is in custody since 23.12.2023. The
 charge sheet qua the petitioner has already been filed
 by the police on 19.02.2024. The police has filed
 charge sheet, inter alia, stating that this is a scam
 and the petitioner is a party to the entire scam. The
 preliminary charge sheet reveals as under: The co-accused persons are absconding. Therefore,
the prosecution has kept the further investigation
open under Section-173(2) Cr.P.C. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that
in so far as co-accused Ankita Sahoo is concerned,
the police issued notice under Section 41(c) Cr.P.C.
and she was admitted to bail subsequently. One of
the co-accused persons namely Pradeep Kumar
Samantaray has also been enlarged on bail by this
Court vide order dated 01.03.2024 while allowing
BLAPL No.586 of 2024. The petitioner is seeking
parity with the accused persons. 4. The role of the petitioner in the scam is more or
less the same. Two co-accused persons have already
been granted bail. Preliminary charge sheet has
already been filed in the present case. 5. In so far as the absconding accused persons are
concerned, the further investigation in the present
case has been kept open. 6. Mr. Ragada, learned Addl. Government Advocate Page 3 of 5 appearing for the State submits that this is a scam
involving about Rs. 7 lakhs and in so far as the
present accused is concerned, the investigation qua
him has already been completed. No more custody is
required in so far as the present petitioner is
concerned. However, he submits that since it is a big
scam and the further investigation has been kept
open, his cooperation during the further investigation
is essential in the present case. Accordingly, if this
Court inclines to grant bail to the petitioner, stringent
condition should be imposed against the petitioner. 7. The petitioner had approached the learned 1st
Addl. Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge (Vigilance),
Bhubaneswar praying for grant of bail. The learned
Court below vide its order dated 26.02.2024 has
rejected the bail application of the petitioner. Being
aggrieved, the petitioner has filed the present petition
under Section 439 Cr.P.C. praying for enlargement on
bail. 8. Taking into consideration the period of custody
since 23.12.2023, the allegation against the petitioner
and the fact that all other co-accused persons have
already been enlarged on bail and the charge sheet
has already been filed in this case, I am inclined to
admit the petitioner on bail. Hence, the petitioner be released on bail by the
learned Court in seisin over the matter in the
aforesaid case on such terms and conditions as it Page 4 of 5 would deem just and proper subject to the following
 additional conditions: Violation of the bail conditions shall entail
 consideration for cancellation of the bail granted to
 the petitioner. 9. The BLAPL is accordingly disposed of. Digitally Signed Judge Signed by: SUBHASIS MOHANTY Designation: P.A. Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack.
Date: 23-Apr-2024 17:29:35
 Subhasis Page 5 of 5