R.F. Nariman, J. 1. I.A. No.134044 of 2019 for intervention in C.A. Nos. 20825-

 20826 of 2017 is allowed. 2. These Civil Appeals have been referred to a Bench of three

 honourable Judges of this Court by a Division Bench reference order dated Signature Not Verified SUSHMA KUMARI BAJAJ 26.07.2019, dealing with the interpretation of Section 65B of the Indian Digitally signed by Date: 2020.07.14
16:56:15 IST
Reason: 1 3. The brief facts necessary to appreciate the controversy in the

 present case, as elucidated in Civil Appeals 20825-20826 of 2017, are as

 follows: 4. Given the fact that allegations and counter allegations were

 made as to the time at which the nomination forms were given to the RO,

 and that videography was available, the High Court, by its order dated

 16.03.2016, ordered the Election Commission and the concerned officers

 to produce the entire record of the election of this Constituency, including

 the original video recordings. A specific order was made that this electronic

 record needs to be produced along with the ‘necessary certificates’. 5. In compliance with this order, such video recordings were

 produced by the Election Commission, together with a certificate issued

 with regard to the CDs/VCDs, which read as follows: The Court held in paragraph 65 of the impugned judgment that the CDs

 that were produced by the Election Commission could not be treated as an

 original record and would, therefore, have to be proved by means of

 secondary evidence. Finding that no written certificate as is required by Section 65-B(4) of the Evidence Act was furnished by any of the election

 officials, and more particularly, the RO, the High Court then held: State of Uttar Pradesh (2015) 7 SCC 178, and argued that the said

judgment did not notice either Section 65B or Anvar P.V. (supra), and was

therefore per incuriam. He also argued that Shafhi Mohammad (supra),

being a two-Judge Bench of this Court, could not have arrived at a finding

contrary to Anvar P.V. (supra), which was the judgment of three Hon’ble

Judges of this Court. In particular, he argued that it could not have been

held in Shafhi Mohammad (supra) that whenever the interest of justice

required, the requirement of a certificate could be done away with under

Section 65B(4). Equally, this Court’s judgment dated 03.04.2018, reported

as (2018) 5 SCC 311, which merely followed the law laid down in Shafhi

Mohammad (supra), being contrary to the larger bench judgment in Anvar

P.V. (supra), should also be held as not having laid down good law. He

further argued that the Madras High Court judgment in K. Ramajyam v.

Inspector of Police (2016) Crl. LJ 1542, being contrary to Anvar P.V. (supra), also does not lay down the law correctly, in that it holds that

evidence aliunde, that is outside Section 65B, can be taken in order to 9 make electronic records admissible. In the facts of the present case, he

 contended that since it was clear that the requisite certificate had not been

 issued, no theory of “substantial compliance” with the provisions of Section

 65B(4), as was held by the impugned judgment, could possibly be

 sustained in law. 10. Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned Senior Advocate appearing on

 behalf of the Respondents, has taken us in copious detail through the facts

 of this case, and has argued that the High Court has directed the Election

 Commission to produce before the Court the original CDs/VCDs of the

 video-recording done at the office of the RO, along with the necessary

 certificate. An application dated 16.08.2016 was also made to the District

 Election Commission and RO as well as the Assistant RO for the requisite

 certificate under Section 65B. A reply was given on 14.09.2016, that this

 certificate could not be furnished since the matter was sub-judice. Despite

 this, later on, on 26.07.2017 her client wrote to the authorities again

 requesting for issuance of certificate under Section 65B, but by replies

 dated 31.07.2017 and 02.08.2017, no such certificate was forthcoming.

 Finally, after having run from pillar to post, her client applied on 26.08.2017

 to the Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi, stating that the authorities 10 were refusing to give her client the necessary certificate under Section 65B

and that the Chief Election Commissioner should therefore ensure that it

be given to them. To this communication, no reply was forthcoming from

the Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi. Given this, the High Court at

several places had observed in the course of the impugned judgment that

the authorities deliberately refused, despite being directed, to supply the

requisite certificate under Section 65B, as a result of which the impugned

judgment correctly relied upon the oral testimony of the RO herself.

According to Ms. Arora, such oral testimony taken down in the form of

writing, which witness statement is signed by the RO, would itself amount

to the requisite certificate being issued under Section 65B(4) in the facts of

this case, as was correctly held by the High Court. Quite apart from this,

Ms. Arora also stated that - independent of the finding given by the High

Court by relying upon CDs/VCDs - the High Court also relied upon other

documentary and oral evidence to arrive at the finding that the RC had not

handed over nomination forms directly to the RO at 2.20 p.m (i.e. before

3pm). In fact, it was found on the basis of this evidence that the nomination

forms were handed over and accepted by the RO only after 3.00 p.m. and 11 were therefore improperly accepted, as a result of which, the election of

 the Appellant was correctly set aside. 11. On law, Ms. Arora argued that it must not be forgotten that

 Section 65B is a procedural provision, and it cannot be the law that even

 where a certificate is impossible to get, the absence of such certificate

 should result in the denial of crucial evidence which would point at the truth

 or falsehood of a given set of facts. She, therefore, supported the decision

 in Shafhi Mohammad (supra), stating that Anvar P.V. (supra) could be

 considered to be good law only in situations where it was possible for the

 party to produce the requisite certificate. In cases where this becomes

 difficult or impossible, the interest of justice would require that a procedural

 provision be not exalted to such a level that vital evidence would be shut

 out, resulting in manifest injustice. 12. Shri Vikas Upadhyay, appearing on behalf of the Intervenor,

 took us through the various provisions of the Information Technology Act,

 2000 along with Section 65B of the Evidence Act, and argued that Section

 65B does not refer to the stage at which the certificate under Section

 65B(4) ought to be furnished. He relied upon a judgment of the High Court

 of Rajasthan as well as the High Court of Bombay, in addition to Kundan 12 Singh v. State 2015 SCC OnLine Del 13647 of the Delhi High Court, to

 argue that the requisite certificate need not necessarily be given at the time

 of tendering of evidence but could be at a subsequent stage of the

 proceedings, as in cases where the requisite certificate is not forthcoming

 due to no fault of the party who tried to produce it, but who had to apply to

 a Judge for its production. He also argued that Anvar P.V. (supra) required

 to be clarified to the extent that Sections 65A and 65B being a complete

 code as to admissibility of electronic records, the “baggage” of Primary and

 Secondary Evidence contained in Sections 62 and 65 of the Evidence Act

 should not at all be adverted to, and that the drill of Section 65A and 65B

 alone be followed when it comes to admissibility of information contained in

 electronic records. 13. It is now necessary to set out the relevant provisions of the Evidence Act and the Information Technology Act, 2000 . Section 3 of the

 Evidence Act defines “document” as follows: 14. Section 22-A of the Evidence Act, which deals with the

 relevance of oral admissions as to contents of electronic records, reads as

 follows: 15. Section 45A of the Evidence Act, on the opinion of the

 Examiner of Electronic Evidence, then states: 14 16. Sections 65-A and 65-B of the Evidence Act read as follows: Explanation. -- For the purposes of this section any
 reference to information being derived from other
 information shall be a reference to its being derived
 therefrom by calculation, comparison or any other
 process.” 17. The following definitions as contained in Section 2 of the

 Information Technology Act, 2000 are also relevant: 18. Sections 65A and 65B occur in Chapter V of the

 Evidence Act which is entitled “Of Documentary Evidence”. Section 61 of 19 the Evidence Act deals with the proof of contents of documents, and states

 that the contents of documents may be proved either by primary or by

 secondary evidence. Section 62 of the Evidence Act defines primary

 evidence as meaning the document itself produced for the inspection of the

 court. Section 63 of the Evidence Act speaks of the kind or types of

 secondary evidence by which documents may be proved. Section 64 of the

 Evidence Act then enacts that documents must be proved by primary

 evidence except in the circumstances hereinafter mentioned. Section 65 of

 the Evidence Act is important, and states that secondary evidence may be

 given of “the existence, condition or contents of a document in the

 following cases…”. 19. Section 65 differentiates between existence, condition

 and contents of a document. Whereas “existence” goes to “admissibility” of

 a document, “contents” of a document are to be proved after a document

 becomes admissible in evidence. Section 65A speaks of “contents” of

 electronic records being proved in accordance with the provisions of

 Section 65B. Section 65B speaks of “admissibility” of electronic records

 which deals with “existence” and “contents” of electronic records being 20 proved once admissible into evidence. With these prefatory observations

 let us have a closer look at Sections 65A and 65B. 20. It will first be noticed that the subject matter of Sections 65A and 65B of the Evidence Act is proof of information contained in electronic

 records. The marginal note to Section 65A indicates that “special

 provisions” as to evidence relating to electronic records are laid down in this provision. The marginal note to Section 65B then refers to

 “admissibility of electronic records”. 21. Section 65B(1) opens with a non-obstante clause, and makes

 it clear that any information that is contained in an electronic record which

 is printed on a paper, stored, recorded or copied in optical or magnetic

 media produced by a computer shall be deemed to be a document, and

 shall be admissible in any proceedings without further proof of production

 of the original, as evidence of the contents of the original or of any facts

 stated therein of which direct evidence would be admissible. The deeming

 fiction is for the reason that “document” as defined by Section 3 of the

 Evidence Act does not include electronic records. 22. Section 65B(2) then refers to the conditions that must be

 satisfied in respect of a computer output, and states that the test for being 21 included in conditions 65B(2(a)) to 65(2(d)) is that the computer be

 regularly used to store or process information for purposes of activities

 regularly carried on in the period in question. The conditions mentioned in

 sub- sections 2(a) to 2(d) must be satisfied cumulatively. 23. Under Sub-section (4), a certificate is to be produced that

 identifies the electronic record containing the statement and describes the

 manner in which it is produced, or gives particulars of the device involved

 in the production of the electronic record to show that the electronic record

 was produced by a computer, by either a person occupying a responsible

 official position in relation to the operation of the relevant device; or a

 person who is in the management of “relevant activities” – whichever is

 appropriate. What is also of importance is that it shall be sufficient for such

 matter to be stated to the “best of the knowledge and belief of the person

 stating it”. Here, “doing any of the following things…” must be read as

 doing all of the following things, it being well settled that the expression

 “any” can mean “all” given the context (see, for example, this Court’s

 judgments in Bansilal Agarwalla v. State of Bihar (1962) 1 SCR 331 and
 1 “3. The first contention is based on an assumption that the word “any one” in Section 76 means only “one of the directors, and only one of the shareholders”. This question as regards
 the interpretation of the word “any one” in Section 76 was raised in Criminal Appeals Nos. 98
 to 106 of 1959 (Chief Inspector of Mines, etc.) and it has been decided there that the word
 “any one” should be interpreted there as “every one”. Thus under Section 76 every one of the
 shareholders of a private company owning the mine, and every one of the directors of a public 22 Om Parkash v. Union of India (2010) 4 SCC 172). This being the case,

 the conditions mentioned in sub-section (4) must also be interpreted as

 being cumulative. 24. It is now appropriate to examine the manner in which Section

 65B was interpreted by this Court. In Anvar P.V. (supra), a three Judge

 Bench of this Court, after setting out Sections 65A and 65B of the Evidence

 Act, held: Following are the specified conditions under Section 65- B(2) of the Evidence Act : 15. Under Section 65-B(4) of the Evidence Act, if it is
desired to give a statement in any proceedings pertaining
to an electronic record, it is permissible provided the
following conditions are satisfied: 16. It is further clarified that the person need only to state
in the certificate that the same is to the best of his
knowledge and belief. Most importantly, such a certificate
must accompany the electronic record like computer
printout, compact disc (CD), video compact disc (VCD),
pen drive, etc., pertaining to which a statement is sought
to be given in evidence, when the same is produced in
evidence. All these safeguards are taken to ensure the
source and authenticity, which are the two hallmarks
pertaining to electronic record sought to be used as
evidence. Electronic records being more susceptible to
tampering, alteration, transposition, excision, etc. without
such safeguards, the whole trial based on proof of
electronic records can lead to travesty of justice. 17. Only if the electronic record is duly produced in terms
of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act, would the question
arise as to the genuineness thereof and in that situation,
resort can be made to Section 45-A—opinion of Examiner
of Electronic Evidence. 18. The Evidence Act does not contemplate or permit the
proof of an electronic record by oral evidence if
requirements under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act are
not complied with, as the law now stands in India.

xxx xxx xxx 20. Proof of electronic record is a special provision
introduced by the IT Act amending various provisions 25 under the Evidence Act . The very caption of Section 65-A of the Evidence Act, read with Sections 59 and 65-B is
sufficient to hold that the special provisions on evidence
relating to electronic record shall be governed by the
procedure prescribed under Section 65-B of the Evidence
Act. That is a complete code in itself. Being a special law,
the general law under Sections 63 and 65 has to yield. 21. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu a two-Judge
Bench of this Court had an occasion to consider an issue
on production of electronic record as evidence. While
considering the printouts of the computerised records of
the calls pertaining to the cellphones, it was held at para
150 as follows: (SCC p. 714)

“150. According to Section 63 , “secondary evidence”
means and includes, among other things, ‘copies made
from the original by mechanical processes which in
themselves insure the accuracy of the copy, and copies
compared with such copies’. Section 65 enables
secondary evidence of the contents of a document to be
adduced if the original is of such a nature as not to be
easily movable. It is not in dispute that the information
contained in the call records is stored in huge servers
which cannot be easily moved and produced in the court.
That is what the High Court has also observed at para 276. Hence, printouts taken from the computers/servers
by mechanical process and certified by a responsible
official of the service-providing company can be led in
evidence through a witness who can identify the
signatures of the certifying officer or otherwise speak of
the facts based on his personal knowledge. Irrespective of
the compliance with the requirements of Section 65-B,
which is a provision dealing with admissibility of electronic
records, there is no bar to adducing secondary evidence
under the other provisions of the Evidence Act , namely, Sections 63 and 65 . It may be that the certificate
containing the details in sub-section (4) of Section 65-B is 26 not filed in the instant case, but that does not mean that
secondary evidence cannot be given even if the law
permits such evidence to be given in the circumstances
mentioned in the relevant provisions, namely, Sections 63 and 65 .”

It may be seen that it was a case where a responsible
official had duly certified the document at the time of
production itself. The signatures in the certificate were
also identified. That is apparently in compliance with the
procedure prescribed under Section 65-B of the Evidence
Act. However, it was held that irrespective of the
compliance with the requirements of Section 65-B, which
is a special provision dealing with admissibility of the
electronic record, there is no bar in adducing secondary
evidence, under Sections 63 and 65 , of an electronic
record.” 22. The evidence relating to electronic record, as noted
hereinbefore, being a special provision, the general law on
secondary evidence under Section 63 read with Section
65 of the Evidence Act shall yield to the same. Generalia
specialibus non derogant, special law will always prevail
over the general law. It appears, the court omitted to take
note of Sections 59 and 65-A dealing with the admissibility
of electronic record. Sections 63 and 65 have no
application in the case of secondary evidence by way of
electronic record; the same is wholly governed by
Sections 65-A and 65-B. To that extent, the statement of
law on admissibility of secondary evidence pertaining to
electronic record, as stated by this Court in Navjot Sandhu case, does not lay down the correct legal position. It
requires to be overruled and we do so. An electronic
record by way of secondary evidence shall not be
admitted in evidence unless the requirements under
Section 65-B are satisfied. Thus, in the case of CD, VCD,
chip, etc., the same shall be accompanied by the
certificate in terms of Section 65-B obtained at the time of 27 taking the document, without which, the secondary
evidence pertaining to that electronic record, is
inadmissible. 23. The appellant admittedly has not produced any
certificate in terms of Section 65-B in respect of the CDs,
Exts. P-4, P-8, P-9, P-10, P-12, P-13, P-15, P-20 and P- 22. Therefore, the same cannot be admitted in evidence.
Thus, the whole case set up regarding the corrupt practice
using songs, announcements and speeches fall to the
ground. 24. The situation would have been different had the
appellant adduced primary evidence, by making available
in evidence, the CDs used for announcement and songs.
Had those CDs used for objectionable songs or
announcements been duly got seized through the police or
Election Commission and had the same been used as
primary evidence, the High Court could have played the
same in court to see whether the allegations were true.
That is not the situation in this case. The speeches, songs
and announcements were recorded using other
instruments and by feeding them into a computer, CDs
were made therefrom which were produced in court,
without due certification. Those CDs cannot be admitted in
evidence since the mandatory requirements of Section 65-
B of the Evidence Act are not satisfied. It is clarified that
notwithstanding what we have stated herein in the
preceding paragraphs on the secondary evidence of
electronic record with reference to Sections 59 , 65-A and 65-B of the Evidence Act, if an electronic record as such is
used as primary evidence under Section 62 of the
Evidence Act, the same is admissible in evidence, without
compliance with the conditions in Section 65-B of the
Evidence Act.” 28 25. Shri Upadhyay took exception to the language of paragraph 24

 in this judgment. According to the learned counsel, primary and secondary

 evidence as to documents, referred to in Sections 61 to Section 65 of the

 Evidence Act, should be kept out of admissibility of electronic records,

 given the fact that Sections 65A and 65B are a complete code on the

 subject. 26. At this juncture, it is important to note that Section 65B has its

 genesis in Section 5 of the Civil Evidence Act 1968 (UK), which reads as

 follows: 27. It may be noticed that sub-sections (2) to (5) of Section 65B of

 the Evidence Act are a reproduction of sub-sections (2) to (5) of Section 5

 of the Civil Evidence Act, 1968, with minor changes 3. The definition of
 3 Section 69 of the UK Police and Criminal Evidence Act, 1984 dealt with evidence from
 computer records in criminal proceedings. Section 69 read thus: 9. Notwithstanding paragraph 8 above, a court may require oral evidence to be given of
anything of which evidence could be given by a certificate under that paragraph.” 33 existence) by the production of a copy of that document,
 or of the material part thereof, authenticated in such
 manner as the court may approve. xxx xxx xxx

 (5) If any person in a certificate tendered in evidence in
 civil proceedings by virtue of section 5(4) of this Act wilfully
 makes a statement material in those proceedings which
 he knows to be false or does not believe to be true, he
 shall be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment
 for a term not exceeding two years or a fine or both.” 28. Section 6(1) , in essence, maintains the dichotomy between

 proof by ‘primary’ and ‘secondary’ evidence - proof by production of the

 ‘document’ itself being primary evidence, and proof by production of a copy

 of that document, as authenticated, being secondary evidence. Section

 6(5) , which gives teeth to the person granting the certificate mentioned in Section 5(4) of the Act, by punishing false statements wilfully made in the

 certificate, has not been included in the Indian Evidence Act . These

 sections have since been repealed by the Civil Evidence Act of 1995 (UK),

 pursuant to a UK Law Commission Report published in September, 1993

 (Law Com. No. 216), by which the strict rule as to hearsay evidence was

 relaxed, and hearsay evidence was made admissible in the circumstances

 mentioned by the Civil Evidence Act of 1995. Sections 8 , 9 and 13 of this

 Act are important, and are set out hereinbelow: 34 9. Proof of records of business or public authority.

(1) A document which is shown to form part of the records
of a business or public authority may be received in
evidence in civil proceedings without further proof.

(2) A document shall be taken to form part of the records
of a business or public authority if there is produced to the
court a certificate to that effect signed by an officer of the
business or authority to which the records belong. For this
purpose— (a) a document purporting to be a certificate signed by an
officer of a business or public authority shall be deemed to
have been duly given by such an officer and signed by
him; and (b) a certificate shall be treated as signed by a person if it
purports to bear a facsimile of his signature.

(3) The absence of an entry in the records of a business or
public authority may be proved in civil proceedings by
affidavit of an officer of the business or authority to which
the records belong. 35 (4) In this section—

 “records” means records in whatever form; “business” includes any activity regularly carried on over a
 period of time, whether for profit or not, by any body
 (whether corporate or not) or by an individual;

 “officer” includes any person occupying a responsible
 position in relation to the relevant activities of the business
 or public authority or in relation to its records; and

 “public authority” includes any public or statutory
 undertaking, any government department and any person
 holding office under Her Majesty. (5) The court may, having regard to the circumstances of
 the case, direct that all or any of the above provisions of
 this section do not apply in relation to a particular
 document or record, or description of documents or
 records.” Section 13 of this Act defines “document” as follows: section (1) needs to be analysed. The sub-section begins with a non-

 obstante clause, and then goes on to mention information contained in an

 electronic record produced by a computer, which is, by a deeming fiction,

 then made a “document”. This deeming fiction only takes effect if the

 further conditions mentioned in the Section are satisfied in relation to both

 the information and the computer in question; and if such conditions are

 met, the “document” shall then be admissible in any proceedings. The

 words “…without further proof or production of the original…” make it clear

 that once the deeming fiction is given effect by the fulfilment of the

 conditions mentioned in the Section, the “deemed document” now

 becomes admissible in evidence without further proof or production of the

 original as evidence of any contents of the original, or of any fact stated

 therein of which direct evidence would be admissible. 37 31. The non-obstante clause in sub-section (1) makes it clear that

 when it comes to information contained in an electronic record,

 admissibility and proof thereof must follow the drill of Section 65B, which is

 a special provision in this behalf - Sections 62 to 65 being irrelevant for this

 purpose. However, Section 65B(1) clearly differentiates between the

 “original” document - which would be the original “electronic record”

 contained in the “computer” in which the original information is first stored -

 and the computer output containing such information, which then may be

 treated as evidence of the contents of the “original” document. All this

 necessarily shows that Section 65B differentiates between the original

 information contained in the “computer” itself and copies made therefrom –

 the former being primary evidence, and the latter being secondary

 evidence. 32. Quite obviously, the requisite certificate in sub-section (4) is

 unnecessary if the original document itself is produced. This can be done

 by the owner of a laptop computer, a computer tablet or even a mobile

 phone, by stepping into the witness box and proving that the concerned

 device, on which the original information is first stored, is owned and/or

 operated by him. In cases where “the computer”, as defined, happens to 38 be a part of a “computer system” or “computer network” (as defined in the Information Technology Act, 2000 ) and it becomes impossible to physically

 bring such network or system to the Court, then the only means of proving

 information contained in such electronic record can be in accordance with

 Section 65B(1), together with the requisite certificate under Section 65B(4).

 This being the case, it is necessary to clarify what is contained in the last

 sentence in paragraph 24 of Anvar P.V. (supra) which reads as “…if an

 electronic record as such is used as primary evidence under Section 62 of

 the Evidence Act…”. This may more appropriately be read without the

 words “under Section 62 of the Evidence Act,…”. With this minor

 clarification, the law stated in paragraph 24 of Anvar P.V. (supra) does not

 need to be revisited. 33. In fact, in Vikram Singh and Anr. v. State of Punjab and Anr. (2017) 8 SCC 518, a three-Judge Bench of this Court followed the law in Anvar P.V. (supra), clearly stating that where primary evidence in

 electronic form has been produced, no certificate under Section 65B would

 be necessary. This was so stated as follows: 34. Despite the law so declared in Anvar P.V. (supra), wherein this

 Court made it clear that the special provisions of Sections 65A and 65B of

 the Evidence Act are a complete Code in themselves when it comes to

 4 The definition of “data”, “electronic form” and “electronic record” under the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 (as set out hereinabove) makes it clear that “data” and “electronic form”
 includes “magnetic or optical storage media”, which would include the audio tape/cassette
 discussed in Vikram Singh (supra). 40 admissibility of evidence of information contained in electronic records, and

also that a written certificate under Section 65B(4) is a sine qua non for

admissibility of such evidence, a discordant note was soon struck in

Tomaso Bruno (supra). In this judgment, another three Judge Bench dealt

with the admissibility of evidence in a criminal case in which CCTV footage

was sought to be relied upon in evidence. The Court held: Navjot Sandhu (2005) 11 SCC 600 was adverted to, which was a

 judgment specifically overruled by Anvar P.V. (supra). It may also be

 stated that Section 65B(4) was also not at all adverted to by this judgment. Hence, the declaration of law in Tomaso Bruno (supra) following Navjot

 Sandhu (supra) that secondary evidence of the contents of a document

 can also be led under Section 65 of the Evidence Act to make CCTV

 footage admissible would be in the teeth of Anvar P.V. , (supra) and cannot

 be said to be a correct statement of the law. The said view is accordingly

 overruled. 42 36. We now come to the decision in Shafhi Mohammad (supra).

 In this case, by an order dated 30.01.2018 made by two learned Judges of

 this Court, it was stated: Reference was made to the decisions of this Court
in Mohd. Ajmal Amir Kasab v. State of
Maharashtra [( 2012) 9 SCC 1] and State (NCT of
Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu . 24. We may, however, also refer to the judgment of this
Court in Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer , delivered by a three-
Judge Bench. In the said judgment in para 24 it was
observed that electronic evidence by way of primary
evidence was covered by Section 62 of the Evidence Act
to which procedure of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act
was not admissible. However, for the secondary evidence,
procedure of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act was
required to be followed and a contrary view taken
in Navjot Sandhu that secondary evidence of electronic
record could be covered under Sections 63 and 65 of the
Evidence Act, was not correct. There are, however,
observations in para 14 to the effect that electronic record
can be proved only as per Section 65-B of the Evidence
Act. 25. Though in view of the three-Judge Bench judgments
in Tomaso Bruno and Ram Singh [1985 Supp SCC 611] ,
it can be safely held that electronic evidence is admissible
and provisions under Sections 65-A and 65-B of the
Evidence Act are by way of a clarification and are
procedural provisions. If the electronic evidence is
authentic and relevant the same can certainly be admitted
subject to the Court being satisfied about its authenticity 44 and procedure for its admissibility may depend on fact
situation such as whether the person producing such
evidence is in a position to furnish certificate under
Section 65-B(4). 26. Sections 65-A and 65-B of the Evidence Act, 1872
cannot be held to be a complete code on the subject.
In Anvar P.V., this Court in para 24 clarified that primary
evidence of electronic record was not covered under Sections 65-A and 65-B of the Evidence Act. Primary
evidence is the document produced before the Court and
the expression “document” is defined in Section 3 of the
Evidence Act to mean any matter expressed or described
upon any substance by means of letters, figures or marks,
or by more than one of those means, intended to be used,
or which may be used, for the purpose of recording that
matter. 27. The term “electronic record” is defined in Section 2(1) (t) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 as follows: 28. The expression “data” is defined in Section 2(1)(o) of
the Information Technology Act as follows: 29. The applicability of procedural requirement under Section 65-B(4) of the Evidence Act of furnishing
 certificate is to be applied only when such electronic
 evidence is produced by a person who is in a position to
 produce such certificate being in control of the said device
 and not of the opposite party. In a case where electronic
 evidence is produced by a party who is not in possession
 of a device, applicability of Sections 63 and 65 of the
 Evidence Act cannot be held to be excluded. In such case,
 procedure under the said sections can certainly be
 invoked. If this is not so permitted, it will be denial of
 justice to the person who is in possession of authentic
 evidence/witness but on account of manner of proving,
 such document is kept out of consideration by the court in
 the absence of certificate under Section 65-B(4) of the
 Evidence Act, which party producing cannot possibly
 secure. Thus, requirement of certificate under Section 65- B(4) is not always mandatory. 30. Accordingly, we clarify the legal position on the subject
 on the admissibility of the electronic evidence, especially
 by a party who is not in possession of device from which
 the document is produced. Such party cannot be required
 to produce certificate under Section 65-B(4) of the
 Evidence Act. The applicability of requirement of certificate
 being procedural can be relaxed by the court wherever
 interest of justice so justifies.” 37. It may be noted that the judgments referred to in paragraph 21

 of Shafhi Mohammed (supra) are all judgments before the year 2000,

 when Amendment Act 21 of 2000 first introduced Sections 65A and 65B

 into the Evidence Act and can, therefore, be of no assistance on

 interpreting the law as to admissibility into evidence of information 46 contained in electronic records. Likewise, the judgment cited in paragraph

 22, namely Tukaram S. Dighole v. Manikrao Shivaji Kokate (2010) 4

 SCC 329 is also a judgment which does not deal with Section 65B. In fact,

 paragraph 20 of the said judgment states the issues before the Court as

 follows: 38. Much succour was taken from the three Judge Bench decision

 in Tomaso Bruno (supra) in paragraph 23, which, as has been stated

 hereinabove, does not state the law on Section 65B correctly. Anvar P.V. (supra) was referred to in paragraph 24, but surprisingly, in paragraph 26, 47 the Court held that Sections 65A and 65B cannot be held to be a complete

 Code on the subject, directly contrary to what was stated by a three Judge

 Bench in Anvar P.V. (supra). It was then “clarified” that the requirement of

 a certificate under Section 64B(4), being procedural, can be relaxed by the

 Court wherever the interest of justice so justifies, and one circumstance in

 which the interest of justice so justifies would be where the electronic

 device is produced by a party who is not in possession of such device, as a

 result of which such party would not be in a position to secure the requisite

 certificate. 39. Quite apart from the fact that the judgment in Shafhi

 Mohammad (supra) states the law incorrectly and is in the teeth of the

 judgment in Anvar P.V. (supra), following the judgment in Tomaso Bruno (supra) - which has been held to be per incuriam hereinabove - the

 underlying reasoning of the difficulty of producing a certificate by a party

 who is not in possession of an electronic device is also wholly incorrect. 40. As a matter of fact, Section 165 of the Evidence Act empowers

 a Judge to order production of any document or thing in order to discover

 or obtain proof of relevant facts. Section 165 of the Evidence Act states as

 follows: 48 41. Likewise, under Order XVI of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908

 (“ CPC ”) which deals with ‘Summoning and Attendance of Witnesses’, the

 Court can issue the following orders for the production of documents: xxx xxx xxx 10. Procedure where witness fails to comply with
summons.—(1) Where a person has been issued
summons either to attend to give evidence or to produce a
document, fails to attend or to produce the document in
compliance with such summons, the Court— (a) shall, if
the certificate of the serving officer has not been verified
by the affidavit, or if service of the summons has affected
by a party or his agent, or (b) may, if the certificate of the
serving officer has been so verified, examine on oath the
serving officer or the party or his agent, as the case may
be, who has effected service, or cause him to be so
examined by any Court, touching the service or non-
service of the summons. (2) Where the Court sees reason to believe that such
evidence or production is material, and that such person
has, without lawful excuse, failed to attend or to produce
the document in compliance with such summons or has
intentionally avoided service, it may issue a proclamation
requiring him to attend to give evidence or to produce the
document at a time and place to be named therein; and a
copy of such proclamation shall be affixed on the outer
door or other conspicuous part of the house in which he
ordinarily resides. (3) In lieu of or at the time of issuing such proclamation, or
at any time afterwards, the Court may, in its discretion,
issue a warrant, either with or without bail, for the arrest of
such person, and may make an order for the attachment 50 of his property to such amount as it thinks fit, not
 exceeding the amount of the costs of attachment and of
 any fine which may be imposed under rule 12: (2005) 3 SCC 601 (at paragraphs 13 and 14). 46. These Latin maxims have also been applied in several other

 contexts by this Court. In Cochin State Power and Light Corporation v.

 State of Kerala (1965) 3 SCR 187, a question arose as to the exercise of

 an option of purchasing an undertaking by the State Electricity Board under Section 6(4) of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910. The provision required a

 notice of at least 18 months before the expiry of the relevant period to be

 given by such State Electricity Board to the State Government. Since this

 mandatory provision was impossible of compliance, it was held that the

 State Electricity Board was excused from giving such notice, as follows: 55 Now, the effect of sub-section (4) read with sub-section (2)
of Section 6 is that on failure of the Board to give the
notice prescribed by sub-section (4), the option vested in
the Board under sub-section (1) of Section 6 was liable to
be divested. Sub-section (4) of Section 6 imposed upon
the Board the duty of giving after the coming into force of Section 6 a notice in writing of its intention to exercise the
option at least 18 months before the expiry of the relevant
period. Section 6 came into force on September 5, 1959,
and the relevant period expired on December 3, 1960. In
the circumstances, the giving of the requisite notice of 18
months in respect of the option of purchase on the expiry
of December 2, 1960, was impossible from the very
commencement of Section 6 . The performance of this
impossible duty must be excused in accordance with the
maxim, lex non cogitia ad impossibilia (the law does not
compel the doing of impossibilities), and sub-section (4) of Section 6 must be construed as not being applicable to a
case where compliance with it is impossible. We must
therefore, hold that the State Electricity Board was not 56 required to give the notice under sub-section (4) of Section
 6 in respect of its option of purchase on the expiry of 25
 years. It must follow that the Board cannot be deemed to
 have elected not to purchase the undertaking under sub-
 section (4) of Section 6 . By the notice served upon the
 appellant, the Board duly elected to purchase the
 undertaking on the expiry of 25 years. Consequently, the
 State Government never became vested with the option of
 purchasing the undertaking under sub-section (2) of Section 6 . The State Government must, therefore, be
 restrained from taking further action under its notice, Ex.
 G, dated November 20, 1959.”5 47. In Raj Kumar Dubey v. Tarapada Dey and Ors. (1987) 4

 SCC 398, the maxim non cogit ad impossibilia was applied in the context

 of the applicability of a mandatory provision of the Registration Act, 1908 ,

 as follows: injunctions, is understood to disclaim, as it does in its
general aphorisms, all intention of compelling
impossibilities, and the administration of laws must adopt
that general exception in the consideration of all particular
cases. 7. In this case indisputably during the period from 26-7-
1978 to December 1982 there was subsisting injunction
preventing the arbitrators from taking any steps.
Furthermore, as noted before the award was in the
custody of the court, that is to say, 28-1-1978 till the return
of the award to the arbitrators on 24-11-1983, arbitrators
or the parties could not have presented the award for its
registration during that time. The award as we have noted
before was made on 28-11-1977 and before the expiry of
the four months from 28-11-1977, the award was filed in
the court pursuant to the order of the court. It was argued
that the order made by the court directing the arbitrators to
keep the award in the custody of the court was wrong and
without jurisdiction, but no arbitrator could be compelled to
disobey the order of the court and if in compliance or
obedience with court of doubtful jurisdiction, he could not
take back the award from the custody of the court to take
any further steps for its registration then it cannot be said
that he has failed to get the award registered as the law
required. The aforesaid two legal maxims — the law does
not compel a man to do that which he cannot possibly
perform and an act of the court shall prejudice no
man would, apply with full vigour in the facts of this case
and if that is the position then the award as we have noted
before was presented before the Sub-Registrar, Arambagh
on 25-11-1983 the very next one day of getting
possession of the award from the court. The Sub-Registrar
pursuant to the order of the High Court on 24-6-1985
found that the award was presented within time as the
period during which the judicial proceedings were pending
that is to say, from 28-1-1978 to 24-11-1983 should be
excluded in view of the principle laid down in Section 15 of 58 the Limitation Act, 1963 . The High Court, therefore, in our
 opinion, was wrong in holding that the only period which
 should be excluded was from 26-7-1978 till 20-12-1982.
 We are unable to accept this position. 26-7-1978 was the
 date of the order of the learned Munsif directing
 maintenance of status quo and 20-12-1982 was the date
 when the interim injunction was vacated, but still the
 award was in the custody of the court and there is ample
 evidence as it would appear from the narration of events
 hereinbefore made that the arbitrators had tried to obtain
 the custody of the award which the court declined to give
 to them.” 48. These maxims have also been applied to tenancy legislation –

 see M/s B.P. Khemka Pvt. Ltd. v. Birendra Kumar Bhowmick and Anr. (1987) 2 SCC 401 (at paragraph 12), and have also been applied to relieve

 authorities of fulfilling their obligation to allot plots when such plots have

 been found to be un-allottable, owing to the contravention of Central

 statutes – see Hira Tikoo v. U.T., Chandigarh and Ors. (2004) 6 SCC 765

 (at paragraphs 23 and 24). 49. On an application of the aforesaid maxims to the present case,

 it is clear that though Section 65B(4) is mandatory, yet, on the facts of this

 case, the Respondents, having done everything possible to obtain the

 necessary certificate, which was to be given by a third-party over whom the

 Respondents had no control, must be relieved of the mandatory obligation

 contained in the said sub-section. 59 50. We may hasten to add that Section 65B does not speak of the

 stage at which such certificate must be furnished to the Court. In Anvar

 P.V. (supra), this Court did observe that such certificate must accompany

 the electronic record when the same is produced in evidence. We may only

 add that this is so in cases where such certificate could be procured by the

 person seeking to rely upon an electronic record. However, in cases where

 either a defective certificate is given, or in cases where such certificate has

 been demanded and is not given by the concerned person, the Judge

 conducting the trial must summon the person/persons referred to in Section 65B(4) of the Evidence Act, and require that such certificate be

 given by such person/persons. This, the trial Judge ought to do when the

 electronic record is produced in evidence before him without the requisite

 certificate in the circumstances aforementioned. This is, of course, subject

 to discretion being exercised in civil cases in accordance with law, and in

 accordance with the requirements of justice on the facts of each case.

 When it comes to criminal trials, it is important to keep in mind the general

 principle that the accused must be supplied all documents that the

 prosecution seeks to rely upon before commencement of the trial, under

 the relevant sections of the CrPC . 60 51. In a recent judgment, a Division Bench of this Court in State of

 Karnataka v. M.R. Hiremath (2019) 7 SCC 515, after referring to Anvar

 P.V. (supra) held: 52. It is pertinent to recollect that the stage of admitting

 documentary evidence in a criminal trial is the filing of the charge-sheet.

 When a criminal court summons the accused to stand trial, copies of all 61 documents which are entered in the charge-sheet/final report have to be

given to the accused. Section 207 of the CrPC, which reads as follows, is

mandatory6. Therefore, the electronic evidence, i.e. the computer output,

has to be furnished at the latest before the trial begins. The reason is not

far to seek; this gives the accused a fair chance to prepare and defend the

charges levelled against him during the trial. The general principle in

criminal proceedings therefore, is to supply to the accused all documents

that the prosecution seeks to rely upon before the commencement of the

trial. The requirement of such full disclosure is an extremely valuable right

and an essential feature of the right to a fair trial as it enables the accused

to prepare for the trial before its commencement.

6 “Section 207. Supply to the accused of copy of police report and other documents.- In
any case where the proceeding has been instituted on a police report, the Magistrate shall
without delay furnish to the accused, free of costs, a copy of each of the following:- persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses, excluding
 therefrom any part in regard to which a request for such exclusion has been made by
 the police officer under sub-section (6) of section 173; (iv) the confessions and statements, if any, recorded under section 164 ; (v) any other document or relevant extract thereof forwarded to the
 Magistrate with the police report under sub-section (5) of section 173: As recognised by this Court in Central Bureau of Investigation v. R.S.

 Pai (2002) 5 SCC 82, the only exception to this general rule is if the

 prosecution had ‘mistakenly’ not filed a document, the said document can

 be allowed to be placed on record. The Court held as follows: Depending on the facts of each case, and the Court exercising discretion

 after seeing that the accused is not prejudiced by want of a fair trial, the

 Court may in appropriate cases allow the prosecution to produce such

 certificate at a later point in time. If it is the accused who desires to

 produce the requisite certificate as part of his defence, this again will

 depend upon the justice of the case - discretion to be exercised by the

 Court in accordance with law. 55. The High Court of Rajasthan in Paras Jain v. State of

 Rajasthan 2015 SCC OnLine Raj 8331, decided a preliminary objection

 that was raised on the applicability of Section 65B to the facts of the case.

 The preliminary objection raised was framed as follows: sheet cannot be produced subsequently in any
circumstances. My answer to the question is in negative
and in my opinion such evidence can be produced
subsequently also as it is well settled legal position that
the goal of a criminal trial is to discover the truth and to
achieve that goal, the best possible evidence is to be
brought on record. 19. Relevant portion of sub-sec. (1) of Sec. 91 Cr.P.C.
provides that whenever any Court considers that the
production of any document is necessary or desirable for
the purposes of any trial under the Code by or before such
Court, such Court may issue a summons to the person in
whose possession or power such document is believed to
be, requiring him to attend and produce it or to produce it,
at the time and place stated in the summons. Thus, a wide
discretion has been conferred on the Court enabling it
during the course of trial to issue summons to a person in
whose possession or power a document is believed to be
requiring him to produce before it, if the Court considers
that the production of such document is necessary or 66 desirable for the purposes of such trial. Such power can
be exercised by the Court at any stage of the proceedings
before judgment is delivered and the Court must exercise
the power if the production of such document is necessary
or desirable for the proper decision in the case. It cannot
be disputed that such summons can also be issued to the
complainant/informer/victim of the case on whose instance
the FIR was registered. In my considered view when
under this provision Court has been empowered to issue
summons for the producment of document, there can be
no bar for the Court to permit a document to be taken on
record if it is already before it and the Court finds that it is
necessary for the proper disposal of the case irrespective
of the fact that it was not filed along with the charge-sheet.
I am of the further view that it is the duty of the Court to
take all steps necessary for the production of such a
document before it. 20. As per Sec. 311 Cr.P.C., any Court may, at any stage
of any trial under the Code, summon any person as a
witness, or examine any person in attendance, though not
summoned as a witness, or recall or re-examine any
person already examined; and the Court shall summon
and examine or recall and re-examine any such person if
his evidence appears to it to be essential to the just
decision of the case. Under this provision also wide
discretion has been conferred upon the Court to exercise
its power and paramount consideration is just decision of
the case. In my opinion under this provision it is
permissible for the Court even to order production of a
document before it if it is essential for the just decision of
the case. 21. As per Section 173(8) Cr.P.C. carrying out a further
investigation and collection of additional evidence even
after filing of charge-sheet is a statutory right of the police
and for that prior permission of the Magistrate is not
required. If during the course of such further investigation 67 additional evidence, either oral or documentary, is
 collected by the Police, the same can be produced before
 the Court in the form of supplementary charge-sheet. The
 prime consideration for further investigation and collection
 of additional evidence is to arrive at the truth and to do
 real and substantial justice. The material collected during
 further investigation cannot be rejected only because it
 has been filed at the stage of the trial. 22. As per Section 231 Cr.P.C., the prosecution is entitled
 to produce any person as a witness even though such
 person is not named in the charge-sheet. 23. When legal position is that additional evidence, oral or
 documentary, can be produced during the course of trial if
 in the opinion of the Court production of it is essential for
 the proper disposal of the case, how it can be held that the
 certificate as required under Section 65-B of the Evidence
 Act cannot be produced subsequently in any
 circumstances if the same was not procured alongwith the
 electronic record and not produced in the Court with the
 charge-sheet. In my opinion it is only an irregularity not
 going to the root of the matter and is curable. It is also
 pertinent to note that certificate was produced alongwith
 the charge-sheet but it was not in a proper form but during
 the course of hearing of these petitioners, it has been
 produced on the prescribed form.” 56. In Kundan Singh (supra), a Division Bench of the Delhi

 High Court held: 57. Subject to the caveat laid down in paragraphs 50 and 54

 above, the law laid down by these two High Courts has our concurrence.

 So long as the hearing in a trial is not yet over, the requisite certificate can

 be directed to be produced by the learned Judge at any stage, so that

 information contained in electronic record form can then be admitted, and

 relied upon in evidence. 58. It may also be seen that the person who gives this certificate

 can be anyone out of several persons who occupy a ‘responsible official

 position’ in relation to the operation of the relevant device, as also the

 person who may otherwise be in the ‘management of relevant activities’

 spoken of in Sub-section (4) of Section 65B. Considering that such

 certificate may also be given long after the electronic record has actually

 been produced by the computer, Section 65B(4) makes it clear that it is 69 sufficient that such person gives the requisite certificate to the “best of his

 knowledge and belief” (Obviously, the word “and” between knowledge and

 belief in Section 65B(4) must be read as “or”, as a person cannot testify to

 the best of his knowledge and belief at the same time). 59. We may reiterate, therefore, that the certificate required under

 Section 65B(4) is a condition precedent to the admissibility of evidence by

 way of electronic record, as correctly held in Anvar P.V. (supra), and

 incorrectly “clarified” in Shafhi Mohammed (supra). Oral evidence in the

 place of such certificate cannot possibly suffice as Section 65B(4) is a

 mandatory requirement of the law. Indeed, the hallowed principle in Taylor

 v. Taylor (1876) 1 Ch.D 426, which has been followed in a number of the

 judgments of this Court, can also be applied. Section 65B(4) of the

 Evidence Act clearly states that secondary evidence is admissible only if

 lead in the manner stated and not otherwise. To hold otherwise would

 render Section 65B(4) otiose. 60. In view of the above, the decision of the Madras High Court in K. Ramajyam (supra), which states that evidence aliunde can be given

 through a person who was in-charge of a computer device in the place of 70 the requisite certificate under Section 65B(4) of the Evidence Act is also an

 incorrect statement of the law and is, accordingly, overruled. 61. While on the subject, it is relevant to note that the Department

 of Telecommunication’s license conditions [i.e. under the ‘License for

 Provision of Unified Access Services’ framed in 2007, as also the

 subsequent ‘License Agreement for Unified License’ and the ‘License

 Agreement for provision of internet service’] generally oblige internet

 service providers and providers of mobile telephony to preserve and

 maintain electronic call records and records of logs of internet users for a

 limited duration of one year7. Therefore, if the police or other individuals

 (interested, or party to any form of litigation) fail to secure those records -

 or secure the records but fail to secure the certificate - within that period,

 the production of a post-dated certificate (i.e. one issued after

 commencement of the trial) would in all probability render the data

 unverifiable. This places the accused in a perilous position, as, in the event

 7 See, Clause 41.17 of the ‘License Agreement for Provision of Unified Access Services’: “The
 LICENSEE shall maintain all commercial records with regard to the communications
 exchanged on the network. Such records shall be archived for at least one year for scrutiny by
 the Licensor for security reasons and may be destroyed thereafter unless directed otherwise
 by the licensor”; Clause 39.20 of the ‘License Agreement for Unified License’: “The Licensee
 shall maintain all commercial records/ Call Detail Record (CDR)/ Exchange Detail Record
 (EDR)/ IP Detail Record (IPDR) with regard to the 39 communications exchanged on the
 network. Such records shall be archived for at least one year for scrutiny by the Licensor for
 security reasons and may be destroyed thereafter unless directed otherwise by the Licensor.
 Licensor may issue directions /instructions from time to time with respect to CDR/IPDR/EDR.” 71 the accused wishes to challenge the genuineness of this certificate by

 seeking the opinion of the Examiner of Electronic Evidence under Section

 45A of the Evidence Act, the electronic record (i.e. the data as to call logs

 in the computer of the service provider) may be missing. 62. To obviate this, general directions are issued to cellular

 companies and internet service providers to maintain CDRs and other

 relevant records for the concerned period (in tune with Section 39 of the

 Evidence Act) in a segregated and secure manner if a particular CDR or

 other record is seized during investigation in the said period. Concerned

 parties can then summon such records at the stage of defence evidence,

 or in the event such data is required to cross-examine a particular witness.

 This direction shall be applied, in criminal trials, till appropriate directions

 are issued under relevant terms of the applicable licenses, or under Section 67C of the Information Technology Act, which reads as follows: 63. It is also useful, in this context, to recollect that on 23 April

 2016, the conference of the Chief Justices of the High Courts, chaired by

 the Chief Justice of India, resolved to create a uniform platform and

 guidelines governing the reception of electronic evidence. The Chief

 Justices of Punjab and Haryana and Delhi were required to constitute a

 committee to “frame Draft Rules to serve as model for adoption by High

 Courts”. A five-Judge Committee was accordingly constituted on 28 July,

 20188. After extensive deliberations, and meetings with several police,

 investigative and other agencies, the Committee finalised its report in

 November 2018. The report suggested comprehensive guidelines, and

 recommended their adoption for use in courts, across several categories of

 proceedings. The report also contained Draft Rules for the Reception,

 Retrieval, Authentication and Preservation of Electronic Records. In the

 opinion of the Court, these Draft Rules should be examined by the

 concerned authorities, with the object of giving them statutory force, to

 guide courts in regard to preservation and retrieval of electronic evidence. 64. We turn now to the facts of the case before us. In the present

 case, by the impugned judgment dated 24.11.2017, Election Petition

 8 The Committee comprised of Rajesh Bindal, S. Muralidhar, Rajiv Sahai Endlaw, Rajiv Narain
 Raina and R.K. Gauba, JJ. 73 6/2014 and Election Petition 9/2014 have been allowed and partly allowed

 respectively, the election of the RC being declared to be void under Section 100 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, inter alia, on

 the ground that as nomination papers at serial numbers 43 and 44 were

 not presented by the RC before 3.00 p.m. on 27.09.2014, such nomination

 papers were improperly accepted. 65. However, by an order dated 08.12.2017, this Court admitted

 the Election Appeal of the Appellant, and stayed the impugned judgment

 and order. 66. We have heard this matter after the five year Legislative

 Assembly term is over in November 2019. This being the case, ordinarily, it

 would be unnecessary to decide on the merits of the case before us, as the

 term of the Legislative Assembly is over. However, having read the

 impugned judgment, it is clear that the learned Single Judge was

 anguished by the fact that the Election Commission authorities behaved in

 a partisan manner by openly favouring the Appellant. Despite the fact that

 the reason given of “substantial compliance” with Section 65B(4) in the

 absence of the requisite certificate being incorrect in law, yet, considering

 that the Respondent had done everything in his power to obtain the 74 requisite certificate from the appropriate authorities, including directions

 from the Court to produce the requisite certificate, no such certificate was

 forthcoming. The horse was directed to be taken to the water to drink - but

 it refused to drink, leading to the consequence pointed out in paragraph 49

 of this judgment (supra). 67. Even otherwise, apart from evidence contained in electronic

 form, the High court arrived at the following conclusion: 68. Thus, it is clear that apart from the evidence in the form

 of electronic record, other evidence was also relied upon to arrive at the

 same conclusion. The High Court’s judgment therefore cannot be faulted. 69. Shri Adsure, however, attacked the impugned judgment when it

 held that the improper acceptance of the nomination form of the RC

 himself being involved in the matter, no further pleadings and particulars on

 whether the election is “materially affected” were required, as it can be

 assumed that if such plea is accepted, the election would be materially

 affected, as the election would then be set aside. He cited a Division

 Bench judgment of this Court in Rajendra Kumar Meshram v. Vanshmani

 Prasad Verma (2016) 10 SCC 715, wherein an election petition was filed 76 against the appellant, inter alia, on the ground that as the appellant - the

returned candidate - was a Government servant, his nomination had been

improperly accepted. The Court held that the requirement of Section

100(1)(d) of the Representation of People Act, 1951, being that the election

can be set aside only if such improper acceptance of the nomination has

“materially affected” the result of the election, and there being no pleading

or evidence to this effect, the election petition must fail. This Court stated: 70. On the other hand, Ms. Meenakshi Arora cited a Division

 Bench judgment in Mairembam Prithviraj v. Pukhrem Sharatchandra

 Singh (2017) 2 SCC 487. In this judgment, several earlier judgments of

 this Court were cited on the legal effect of not pleading or proving that the

 election had been “materially affected” by the improper acceptance of a

 nomination under Section 100(1)(d)(i) of the Representation of People Act,

 1951. After referring to Durai Muthuswami v. N. Nachiappan and Ors. 1973(2) SCC 45 and Jagjit Singh v. Dharam Pal Singh 1995 Supp (1)

 SCC 422, this Court then referred to a three-Judge Bench judgment in Vashist Narain Sharma v. Dev Chandra 1955 (1) SCR 509 as under: It is agreed that in the first case the result of the election is
 not materially affected because if all the wasted votes are
 added to the votes of the candidate securing the highest
 votes, it will make no difference to the result and the
 returned candidate will retain the seat. In the other two
 cases it is contended that the result is materially
 affected. So far as the third case is concerned it may be
 readily conceded that such would be the conclusion…”

This Court then concluded: 71. None of the earlier judgments of this Court referred to in Mairembam Prithviraj (supra) have been adverted to in Rajendra Kumar

 Meshram (supra) cited by Shri Adsure. In particular, the judgment of three

 learned Judges of this Court in Vashist Narain Sharma (supra) has

 specifically held that where the person whose nomination has been

 improperly accepted is the returned candidate himself, it may be readily

 conceded that the conclusion has to be that the result of the election would

 be “materially affected”, without there being any necessity to plead and

 prove the same. The judgment in Rajendra Kumar Meshram (supra), not

 having referred to these earlier judgments of a larger strength binding upon

 it, cannot be said to have declared the law correctly. As a result thereof, the

 impugned judgment of the High Court is right in its conclusion on this point

 also. 72. The reference is thus answered by stating that: (b) The clarification referred to above is that the required

 certificate under Section 65B(4) is unnecessary if the original document

 itself is produced. This can be done by the owner of a laptop computer,

 computer tablet or even a mobile phone, by stepping into the witness

 box and proving that the concerned device, on which the original

 information is first stored, is owned and/or operated by him. In cases

 where the “computer” happens to be a part of a “computer system” or

 “computer network” and it becomes impossible to physically bring such

 system or network to the Court, then the only means of providing

 information contained in such electronic record can be in accordance

 with Section 65B(1), together with the requisite certificate under Section

 65B(4). The last sentence in Anvar P.V. (supra) which reads as “…if an

 electronic record as such is used as primary evidence under Section 62 of the Evidence Act…” is thus clarified; it is to be read without the words

 “under Section 62 of the Evidence Act,…” With this clarification, the law 81 stated in paragraph 24 of Anvar P.V. (supra) does not need to be

 revisited. (c) The general directions issued in paragraph 62 (supra) shall

 hereafter be followed by courts that deal with electronic evidence, to

 ensure their preservation, and production of certificate at the

 appropriate stage. These directions shall apply in all proceedings, till

 rules and directions under Section 67C of the Information Technology

 Act and data retention conditions are formulated for compliance by

 telecom and internet service providers. (d) Appropriate rules and directions should be framed in exercise

 of the Information Technology Act , by exercising powers such as in

 Section 67C, and also framing suitable rules for the retention of data

 involved in trial of offences, their segregation, rules of chain of custody,

 stamping and record maintenance, for the entire duration of trials and

 appeals, and also in regard to preservation of the meta data to avoid

 corruption. Likewise, appropriate rules for preservation, retrieval and

 production of electronic record, should be framed as indicated earlier,

 after considering the report of the Committee constituted by the Chief

 Justice’s Conference in April, 2016. 82 73. These appeals are dismissed with costs of INR One Lakh each

 to be paid by Shri Arjun Panditrao Khotkar (i.e. the Appellant in C.A. Nos.

 20825-20826 of 2017) to both Shri Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal and Shri

 Vijay Chaudhary. …………………..………………J.
 (R. F. Nariman)

 ……………..……………………J.
 (S. Ravindra Bhat)

 ……………..……………………J.
 (V. Ramasubramanian)
 New Delhi. 14th July, 2020. 83 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL NOS.20825­20826 OF 2017

ARJUN PANDITRAO KHOTKAR …Appellant

 Versus

KAILASH KUSHANRAO GORANTYAL AND ORS.…Respondents

 WITH
 CIVIL APPEAL NO.2407 OF 2018
 CIVIL APPEAL NO.3696 OF 2018

 JUDGMENT

 V. Ramasubramanian.J 1. While I am entirely in agreement with the opinion

 penned by R. F. Nariman, J. I also wish to add a few lines

 about (i) the reasons for the acrimony behind Section 65B of

 the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter “ Evidence Act ”) (ii) 84 how even with the existing rules of procedure, the courts

fared well, without any legislative interference, while dealing

with evidence in analogue form, and (iii) how after machines

in analogue form gave way to machines in electronic form,

certain jurisdictions of the world changed their legal

landscape, over a period of time, by suitably amending the

law, to avoid confusions and conflicts. I. Reasons for the acrimony behind Section 65B 2. Documentary evidence, in contrast to oral evidence, is

 required to pass through certain check posts, such as (i) admissibility (ii) relevancy and (iii) proof, before it is

 allowed entry into the sanctum. Many times, it is

 difficult to identify which of these check posts is

 required to be passed first, which to be passed next

 and which to be passed later. Sometimes, at least in

 practice, the sequence in which evidence has to go

 through these three check posts, changes. Generally

 and theoretically, admissibility depends on relevancy.

 Under Section 136 of the Evidence Act, relevancy must 85 be established before admissibility can be dealt with. Therefore if we go by Section 136 , a party should first

 show relevancy, making it the first check post and

 admissibility the second one. But some documents,

 such as those indicated in Section 68 of the Evidence

 Act, which pass the first check post of relevancy and

 the second check post of admissibility may be of no

 value unless the attesting witness is examined. Proof of

 execution of such documents, in a manner established

 by law, thus constitutes the third check post. Here

 again, proof of execution stands on a different footing

 than proof of contents. 3. It must also be noted that whatever is relevant may not

 always be admissible, if the law imposes certain

 conditions. For instance, a document, whose contents

 are relevant, may not be admissible, if it is a document

 requiring stamping and registration, but had not been

 duly stamped and registered. In other words, if

 admissibility is the cart, relevancy is the horse, under 86 Section 136 . But certain provisions of law place the

 cart before the horse and Section 65B appears to be

 one of them. 4. Section 136 which confers a discretion upon the Judge

 to decide as to the admissibility of evidence reads as

 follows: and the Judge shall admit the evidence if he
 thinks that the fact, if proved, would be
 relevant, and not otherwise. If the fact proposed to be proved is one of which
 evidence is admissible only upon proof of some
 other fact, such last­mentioned fact must be
 proved before evidence is given of the fact first­
 mentioned, unless the party undertakes to give
 proof of such fact, and the Court is satisfied
 with such undertaking. If the relevancy of one alleged fact depends
 upon another alleged fact being first proved,
 the Judge may, in his discretion, either permit
 evidence of the first fact to be given before the
 second fact is proved, or require evidence to be
 given of the second fact before evidence is
 given of the first fact. 87 5. There are three parts to Section 136 . The first part

 deals with the discretion of the Judge to admit the

 evidence, if he thinks that the fact sought to be proved

 is relevant. The second part of Section 136 states that

 if the fact proposed to be proved is one, of which

 evidence is admissible only upon proof of some other

 fact, such last mentioned fact must be proved before

 evidence is given of the fact first mentioned. But this

 rule is subject to a small concession, namely, that if

 the party undertakes to produce proof of the last

 mentioned fact later and the Court is satisfied

 about such undertaking, the Court may proceed to

 admit evidence of the first mentioned fact. The

 third part of Section 136 deals with the relevancy of

 one alleged fact, which depends upon another alleged

 fact being first proved. The third part of Section 136 has no relevance for our present purpose. 88 6. Illustration (b) under Section 136 provides an easy

 example of the second part of Section 136 . Illustration (b) reads as follows: The fact that the original is lost must be proved
 by the person proposing to produce the copy,
 before the copy is produced. 7. What is laid down in Section 65B as a precondition for

 the admission of an electronic record, resembles what

 is provided in the second part of Section 136 . For

 example, if a fact is sought to be proved through the

 contents of an electronic record (or information

 contained in an electronic record), the Judge is first

 required to see if it is relevant, if the first part of Section 136 is taken to be applicable. 8. But Section 65B makes the admissibility of the

 information contained in the electronic record subject

 to certain conditions, including certification. The

 certification is for the purpose of proving that the

 information which constitutes the computer output 89 was produced by a computer which was used regularly

 to store or process information and that the

 information so derived was regularly fed into the

 computer in the ordinary course of the said activities. 9. In other words, if we go by the requirements of Section

 136 , the computer output becomes admissible if the

 fact sought to be proved is relevant. But such a fact is

 admissible only upon proof of some other fact namely,

 that it was extracted from a computer used regularly

 etc. In simple terms, what is contained in the

 computer output can be equated to the first

 mentioned fact and the requirement of a

 certification can be equated to the last mentioned

 fact, referred to in the second part of Section 136 read with Illustration (b) thereunder. 10. But Section 65B(1) starts with a non­obstante clause

 excluding the application of the other provisions and it

 makes the certification, a precondition for 90 admissibility. While doing so, it does not talk about

 relevancy. In a way, Sections 65A and 65B, if read

 together, mix­up both proof and admissibility, but not

 talk about relevancy. Section 65A refers to the

 procedure prescribed in Section 65B, for the purpose

 of proving the contents of electronic records, but

 Section 65B speaks entirely about the preconditions

 for admissibility. As a result, Section 65B places

 admissibility as the first or the outermost check post,

 capable of turning away even at the border, any

 electronic evidence, without any enquiry, if the

 conditions stipulated therein are not fulfilled. 11. The placement by Section 65B, of admissibility as the

 first or the border check post, coupled with the fact

 that a number of ‘computer systems’ (as defined in Section 2(l) of the Information Technology Act, 2000)

 owned by different individuals, may get involved in the

 production of an electronic record, with the ‘originator’

 (as defined in Section 2(za) of the Information 91 Technology Act, 2000 ) being different from the

 recipients or the sharers, has created lot of acrimony

 behind Section 65B, which is evident from the judicial

 opinion swinging like a pendulum. II. How the courts dealt with evidence in analogue form
without legislative interference and the shift 12. It is a matter of fact and record that courts all over the

 world were quick to adapt themselves to evidence in

 analogue form, within the framework of archaic,

 centuries old rules of evidence. It was not as if evidence

 in analogue form was incapable of being manipulated.

 But the courts managed the show well by applying time

 tested rules for sifting the actual from the manipulated. 13. It is no doubt true that the felicity with which courts

 adapted themselves to appreciating evidence in

 analogue form was primarily due to the fact that in

 analogue technology, one is able to see and/ or

 perceive something that is happening. In analogue

 technology, a wave is recorded or used in its original 92 form. When someone speaks or sings, a signal is taken

 directly by the microphone and laid onto a tape, if we

 take the example of an analogue tape recorder. Both,

 the wave from the microphone and the wave on the

 tape, are analogue and the wave on the tape can be

 read, amplified and sent to a speaker to produce the

 sound. In digital technology, the analogue wave is

 sampled at some interval and then turned into

 numbers that are stored in a digital device. Therefore,

 what are stored, are in terms of numbers and they are,

 in turn, converted into voltage waves to produce what

 was stored. 14. The difference between something in analogue form

 and the same thing in digital form and the reason why

 digital format throws more challenges, was presented

 pithily in an article titled ‘Electronic evidence and

 the meaning of “original”’,9 by Stephen Mason

 (Barrister and recognised authority on electronic

9 Stephen Mason, Electronic evidence and the meaning of “original”, 79 Amicus Curiae
26 (2009) 93 signatures and electronic evidence). Taking the

example of a photograph in both types of form, the

learned author says the following: drew an analogy between tape­recordings and

 photographs and held that just as evidence of things

 seen through telescopes or binoculars have been

 admitted, despite the fact that those things could

 not be picked up by the naked eye, the devices

 used for recording conversations could also be

 admitted, provided the accuracy of the recording

11 [1956] Crim LR 442
12 [1960] Crim LR 566
13 [1962] 3 All ER 298
14 [1965] 2 All ER 464 96 can be proved and the voices recorded properly

 identified. 17. Following the above precedents, this Court also held in

 S. Pratap Singh vs. State of Punjab,15 Yusaffalli

 Esmail Nagree vs. State of Maharashtra,16 N. Sri

 Rama Reddy vs. V. V. Giri,17 R.M. Malkani vs. State

 of Maharashtra,18 Ziyauddin Burhanuddin

 Bukhari vs. Brijmohan Ramdass Mehra,19 Ram

 Singh vs. Col. Ram Singh,20 Tukaram S. Dighole vs.

 Manikrao Shivaji Kokate,21 that tape records of

 conversations and speeches are admissible in evidence

 under the Indian Evidence Act , subject to certain

 conditions. In Ziyauddin Burhanuddin Bukhari and

 Tukaram S. Dighole, this Court further held that tape

 records constitute “document” within the meaning of

15 (1964) 4 SCR 753
16 (1967) 3 SCR 720
17 AIR 1972 SC 1162
18 AIR 1973 SC 157
19 (1976) 2 SCC 17
20 AIR 1986 SC 3
21 (2010) 4 SCC 329 97 the expression under Section 3 of the Evidence Act. Thus, without looking up to the law makers to come up

 with necessary amendments from time to time, the

 courts themselves developed certain rules, over a

 period of time, to test the authenticity of these

 documents in analogue form and these rules have in

 fact, worked well. 18. There was also an important question that bothered

 the courts while dealing with evidence in analogue

 form. It was as to whether such evidence was direct or

 hearsay. In The Statute of Liberty, Sapporo Maru

 M/S (Owners) vs. Steam Tanker Statute of Liberty

 (Owners),22 the film recording of a radar set of echoes

 of ships within its range was held to be real evidence.

 The court opined that there was no distinction between

 a photographer operating a camera manually and the

 observations of a barometer operator or its equivalent

 operation by a recording mechanism. The Judge

 rejected the contention that the evidence was hearsay.
22 [1968] 2 All ER 195 98 19. But when it comes to a computer output, one of the

 earliest of cases where the Court of Appeal had to deal

 with evidence in the form of a printout from a

 computer was in R. vs. Pettigrew.23 In that case, the

 printout from a computer operated by an employee of

 the Bank of England was held to be hearsay. But the

 academic opinion about the correctness of the decision

 was sharply divided. While Professor Smith24

 considered the evidence in this case as direct and not

 hearsay, Professor Tapper25 took the view that the

 printout was partly hearsay and partly not. Professor

 Seng26 thought that both views were plausible. 20. But the underlying theory on the basis of which

 academicians critiqued the above judgment is that

 wherever the production of the output was made

 possible without human intervention, the evidence

23 [1980] 71 Cr. App. R. 39
24 Professor Smith was a well­known authority on criminal law and law of evidence; J.
C. Smith, The admissibility of statements by computer, Crim LR 387, 388 (1981).
25 Professor Tapper is a well­known authority on law of evidence; Colin Tapper, Reform
of the law of evidence in relation to the output from computers, 3 IntlJ L & Info Tech 87
(1995). 26 Professor Seng is an Associate Professor at the National University of Singapore;
Daniel K B Seng, Computer output as evidence, Sing JLS 139 (1997). 99 should be taken as direct. This is how the position was

 explained in Castle vs. Cross,27 in which the printout

 from the Intoximeter was held to be direct and not

 hearsay, on the ground that the breath alcohol value in

 the printout comprised information produced by the

 Intoximeter without the data being processed through

 a human brain. 21. In R vs. Robson Mitchell and Richards,28 a printout

 of telephone calls made on a mobile telephone was

 taken as evidence of the calls made and received in

 association with the number. The Court held “where a

 machine observes a fact and records it, that

 record states a fact. It is evidence of what the

 machine recorded and this was printed out. The

 record was not the fact but the evidence of the

 fact”. 27 [1984] 1 WLR 1372
28 [1991] Crim LR 360 100 22. But the facility of operating in anonymity in the cyber

 space, has made electronic records more prone to

 manipulation and consequently to a greater degree of

 suspicion. Therefore, law makers interfered, sometimes

 making things easy for courts and sometimes creating

 a lot of confusion. But over a period of time, certain

 jurisdictions have come up with reasonably good

 solutions. Let us now take a look at them. III. Legislative developments in U.S.A., U.K. and Canada
on the admissibility of electronic records

POSITION IN USA 23. The Federal Rules of Evidence (FRE) of the United

 States of America as amended with effect from

 01.12.2017 recognise the availability of more than one

 option to a person seeking to produce an electronic

 record. Under the amended rules, a person can follow

 either the traditional route under Rule 901 or the route

 of self­authentication under Rule 902 whereunder a 101 certificate of authenticity will elevate its status. Rules

901 and 902 of FRE read as follows: Rule 902. Evidence That Is Self­
Authenticating
The following items of evidence are self­
authenticating; they require no extrinsic
evidence of authenticity in order to be admitted: 103 or by a diplomatic or consular official of the
foreign country assigned or accredited to the
United States. If all parties have been given a
reasonable opportunity to investigate the 104 document's authenticity and accuracy, the
court may, for good cause, either: 24. An important decision in the American jurisprudence

 on this issue was delivered by Chief Magistrate Judge

 of District of Maryland in Lorraine vs. Markel

 American Insurance Co.29 In this case, Paul Grimm,

 J. while dealing with a challenge to an arbitrator’s

 decision in an insurance dispute, dealt with the issue

 whether emails discussing the insurance policy in

 question, were admissible as evidence. The Court,

 while extending the applicability of Rules 901 and 902

 of FRE to electronic evidence, laid down a broad test

 for admissibility of electronically stored information. 30

 This decision was rendered in 2007 and the FRE were

 amended in 2017. 29 241 FRD 534 (2007)
30 Paragraph 2: “Whenever ESI is offered as evidence, either at trial or in summary
judgment, the following evidence rules must be considered: (1) is the ESI relevant as
determined by Rule 401 (does it have any tendency to make some fact that is of
consequence to the litigation more or less probable than it otherwise would be); (2) if
relevant under 401, is it authentic as required by Rule 901(a) (can the proponent show
that the ESI is what it purports to be); (3) if the ESI is offered for its substantive truth, is it
hearsay as defined by Rule 801, and if so, is it covered by an applicable exception (Rules
803, 804 and 807); (4) is the form of the ESI that is being offered as evidence an original
or duplicate under the original writing rule, of if not, is there admissible secondary
evidence to prove the content of the ESI (Rules 1001–1008); and (5) is the probative value
of the ESI substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice or one of the other
factors identified by Rule 403, such that it should be excluded despite its relevance.” 107 25. Sub­rules (13) and (14) were incorporated in Rule 902

 under the amendment of the year 2017. Until then, a

 person seeking to produce electronic records had to fall

 back mostly upon Rule 901 (except in few cases

 covered by sub­rules (11) and (12) of Rule 902). It

 means that the benefit of self­authentication was not

 available until then [until the advent of sub­rules (13)

 and (14), except in cases covered by sub­rules (11) and

 (12)]. Nevertheless, the introduction of sub­rules (13)

 and (14) in Rule 902 did not completely exclude the

 application of the general provisions of Rule 901. 26. Rule 901 applies to all evidence across the board. It is

 a general provision. But Rule 902 is a special provision

 dealing with evidence that is self­authenticating.

 Records generated by an electronic process or system

 and data copied from an electronic device, storage

 medium or file, are included in sub­rules (13) and (14)

 of Rule 902 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. 108 27. But FRE 902 does not exclude the application of FRE 901. It is only when a party seeks to invoke the benefit

 of self­authentication that Rule 902 applies. If a party

 chooses not to claim the benefit of self­authentication,

 he is free to come under Rule 901, even if the evidence

 sought to be adduced is of an electronically stored

 information (ESI). 28. In an article titled ‘E­Discovery: Authenticating

 Common Types of ESI Chart’, authored by Paul W.

 Grimm (the Judge who delivered the verdict in

 Lorraine) and co­authored by Gregory P. Joseph and

 published by Thomson Reuters (2017), the learned

 authors have given a snapshot of the different methods

 of authentication of various types of ESI (electronically

 stored information). In a subsequent article (2018)

 titled ‘Admissibility of Electronic Evidence’ published

 under the caption ‘Grimm­Brady Chart’ (referring to

 Paul W. Grimm and Kevin F. Brady) on the website

 “complexdiscovery.com”, a condensed chart is provided 109 which throws light on the different methods of

authentication of ESI. The chart is reproduced in the

form of a table, with particular reference to the relevant

sub­rules of Rules 901 and 902 of the Federal Rules of

Evidence as follows: 29. It is interesting to note that while the Indian Evidence

 Act is of the year 1872, the Federal Rules of Evidence

 were adopted by the order of the Supreme Court of the

 United States exactly 100 years later, in 1972 and they

 were enacted with amendments made by the Congress

 to take effect on 01.07.1975. Yet, the Rules were found

 inadequate to deal with emerging situations and hence,

 several amendments were made, including the one

 made in 2017 that incorporated specific provisions

 relating to electronic records under sub­rules (13) and

 (14) of FRE 902. After this amendment, a lot of options

 have been made available to litigants seeking to rely

 upon electronically stored information, one among

 them being the route provided by sub­rules (13) and

 (14) of FRE 902. This development of law in the US

 demonstrates that, unlike in India, law has kept pace

 with technology to a great extent. 113 POSITION IN UK 30. As pointed out in the main opinion, Section 65B, in its

 present form, is a poor reproduction of Section 5 of the

 UK Civil Evidence Act, 1968. The language employed in

 sub­sections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of Section 65B is

 almost in pari materia (with minor differences) with

 sub­sections (2) to (5) of Section 5 of the UK Civil

 Evidence Act, 1968. However, sub­section (1) of Section

 65B is substantially different from sub­section (1) of

 Section 5 of the UK Civil Evidence Act, 1968. But it

 also contains certain additional words in sub­section

 (1) namely “without further proof or production of the

 original”. For easy comparison and appreciation, sub­

 section (1) of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act

 and sub­section (1) of Section 5 of UK Civil Evidence

 Act, 1968 are presented in a tabular form as follows: 31. But the abovementioned Section 5 of the U.K. Act of

 1968 was repealed by the Civil Evidence Act, 1995.

 Section 15(2) of the Civil Evidence Act, 1995 repealed

 the enactments specified in Schedule II therein. Under

 Schedule II of the 1995 Act, Part I of the 1968 Act

 containing Sections 1 ­10 were repealed. The effect is

 that when Section 65B was incorporated in the Indian

 Evidence Act , by Act 21 of 2000, by copying sub­

 sections (2) to (5) of Section 5 of the UK Civil Evidence

 Act, 1968, Section 5 itself was not there in the U.K. 115 statute book, as a result of its repeal under the 1995

 Act. 32. The repeal of Section 5 under the 1995 Act was a

 sequel to the recommendations made by the Law

 Commission in September 1993. Part III of the Law

 Commission’s report titled ‘The Hearsay Rule in Civil

 Proceedings’ noted the problems with the 1968 Act, one

 of which concerned computer records. Paragraphs 3.14

 to 3.21 in Part III of the Law Commission’s report read

 as follows: The Law Reform Committee had not
 recommended special provisions for such
 records, and section 5 would appear to
 have been something of an afterthought
 with its many safeguards inserted in order
 to gain acceptance of what was then a
 novel form of evidence. Twenty­five years
 later, technology has developed to an extent
 where computers and computer­generated
 documents are relied on in every area of
 business and have long been accepted in 116 banking and other important record­keeping
fields. The conditions have been widely
criticised, and it has been said that they
are aimed at operations based on the type
of mainframe operations common in the
mid 1960s, which were primarily intended
to process in batches thousands of similar
transactions on a daily basis. 3.15 So far as the statutory conditions are
concerned, there is a heavy reliance on the
need to prove that the document has been
produced in the normal course of business and
in an uninterrupted course of activity. It is at
least questionable whether these
requirements provide any real safeguards
in relation to the reliability of the
hardware or software concerned. In
addition, they are capable of operating to
exclude wide categories of documents,
particularly those which are produced as the
result of an original or a “one off” piece of work.
Furthermore, they provide no protection against
the inaccurate inputting of data. 3.16 We have already referred to the overlap
between sections 4 and 5 . If compliance with section 5 is a prerequisite, then computer­
generated documents which pass the
conditions setout in section 5(2) “shall” be
admissible, notwithstanding the fact that they
originated from a chain of human sources and
that it has not been established that the
persons in the chain acted under a duty. In
other words, the record provisions of section 4 ,
which exist to ensure the reliability of the core
information, are capable of being disapplied. In
the context of our proposed reforms, we do not 117 consider that this apparent discrepancy is of
any significance, save that it illustrates the fact
that section 5 was something of an
afterthought. 3.17 Computer­generated evidence falls
into two categories. First, there is the
situation envisaged by the 1968 Act,
where the computer is used to file and
store information provided to it by human
beings. Second, there is the case where the
record has itself been produced by the
computer, sometimes entirely by itself but
possibly with the involvement of some other
machine. Examples of this situation are
computers which are fed information by
monitoring devices. A particular example is
automatic stock control systems, which are
now in common use and which allow for
purchase orders to be automatically produced.
Under such systems evidence of contract
formation will lie solely in the electronic
messages automatically generated by the
seller’s and buyer’s computers. It is easy to
see how uncertainty as to how the courts
may deal with the proof and enforceability
of such contracts is likely to stifle the full
development and effective use of such
technology. Furthermore, uncertainty may
deter parties from agreeing that contracts made
in this way are to be governed by English law
and litigated in the English courts. 3.18 It is interesting to compare the technical
manner in which the admissibility of computer­
generated records has developed, compared
with cases concerning other forms of
sophisticated technologically produced 118 evidence, for example radar records (See
Sapporo Maru (Owners) v. Statue of Liberty
(Owners) [1968] 1 W.L.R. 739). In the Statue of
Liberty case radar records, produced without
human involvement and reproduced in
photographic form, were held to be admissible
to establish how a collision of two ships had
occurred. It was held that this was “real”
evidence, no different in kind from a monitored
tape recording of a conversation. Furthermore,
in these cases, no extra tests of reliability need
be met and the common law rebuttable
presumption is applied, that the machine was
in order at the material time. The same
presumption has been applied to intoximeter
printouts (Castle v. Cross [1984] 1 W.L.R.
1372). 3.19 There are a number of cases which
establish the way in which courts have sought
to distinguish between types of computer­
generated evidence, by finding in appropriate
cases that the special procedures are
inapplicable because the evidence is original or
direct evidence. As might be expected, case law
on computer­generated evidence is more likely
to be generated by criminal cases of theft or
fraud, where the incidence of such evidence is
high and the issue of admissibility is more
likely to be crucial to the outcome and hence
less liable to be agreed. For example, even in
the first category of cases, where human
involvement exists, a computer­generated
document may not be considered to be hearsay
if the computer has been used as a mere tool,
to produce calculations from data fed to it by
humans, no matter how complex the
calculations, or how difficult it may be for 119 humans to reproduce its work, provided the
 computer was not “contributing its own
 knowledge” ( R v. Wood (1983) 76 Cr. App. R. 23). 3.20 There was no disagreement with the
 view that the provisions relating to
 computer records were outdated and that
 there was no good reason for
 distinguishing between different forms of
 record keeping or maintaining a different
 regime for the admission of computer­
 generated documents. This is the position in
 Scotland under the 1988 Act. Furthermore, we
 were informed of fears that uncertainty over the
 treatment of such records in civil litigation in
 the United Kingdom was a significant
 hindrance to commerce and needed reform. 3.21 Consultees considered that the real
 issue for concern was authenticity that
 this was a matter which was best dealt
 with by a vigilant attitude that
 concentrated upon the weight to be
 attached to the evidence, in the
 circumstances of the individual case,
 rather than by reformulating complex and
 inflexible conditions as to admissibility.
 (emphasis supplied) 33. In Part IV of the 1993 Report, titled ‘Recommendations

 for Reform’, Paragraph 4.43 dealt with the

 recommendations of the Law Commission in relation to

 computer records. Paragraph 4.43 of the Law 120 Commission’s report along with Recommendation Nos.

13, 14 and 15 are reproduced for easy reference: That is not to say that we do not recognise that,
 as familiarity with and confidence in the
 inherent reliability of computers has grown, so
 has concern over the potential for misuse,
 through the capacity to hack, corrupt, or alter
 information, in manner which is undetectable.
 We do not underestimate these dangers. However the current provisions of section 5 do
 not afford any protection and it is not possible
 to legislate protectively. Nothing in our
 proposals will either encourage abuse, or
 prevent a proper challenge to the admissibility
 of computerised records, where abuse is
 suspected. Security and authentication are
 problems that experts in the field are constantly
 addressing and it is a fast evolving area. The
 responses from experts in this field, such as the
 C.B.I., stressed that, whilst computer­generated
 information should be treated similarly to other
 records, such evidence should be weighed
 according to its reliability, with parties being
 encouraged to provide information as to the
 security of their systems. We have proposed a
 wide definition for the word "document". This
 will cover documents in any form and in 121 particular will be wide enough to cover
 computer­generated information. We therefore recommend that: (emphasis in original) 34. The above recommendations of the Law Commission

 (U.K.) made in 1993, led to the repeal of Section 5 of

 the 1968 Act, under the 1995 Act. The rules of

 evidence in civil cases, in so far as electronic records 122 are concerned, thus got liberated in U.K. in 1995 with

 the repeal of Section 5 of the U.K. Civil Evidence

 Act,1968. 35. But there is a separate enactment in the U.K.,

 containing the rules of evidence in criminal

 proceedings and that is the Police and Criminal

 Evidence Act, 1984. Section 69 of the said Act laid

 down rules for determining when a statement in a

 document produced by a computer shall not be

 admissible as evidence of any fact stated therein. Section 69 of the said Act laid down three conditions

 (there are too many negatives in the language employed

 in Section 69 ). In simple terms, they require that it

 must be shown (i) that there are no reasonable grounds

 for believing that the statement is not inaccurate

 because of improper use of the computer; (ii) that at all

 material times the computer was operating properly

 and (iii) that the additional conditions specified in the

 rules made by the court are also satisfied. 123 36. The abovementioned Section 69 of the Police and

 Criminal Evidence Act, 1984 (PACE) was repealed by

 Section 60 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence

 Act, 1999. This repeal was also a sequel to the

 recommendations made by the Law Commission in

 June 1997 under its report titled “Evidence in Criminal

 Proceedings: Hearsay and Related Topics”. Part 13 of

 the Law Commission’s Report dealt with computer

 evidence in extenso. The problems with Section 69 of

 the 1984 Act, the response during the Consultative

 Process and the eventual recommendations of the U.K.

 Law Commission are contained in paragraphs 13.1 to

 13.23. They are usefully extracted as follows: If there is any dispute as to whether the
conditions in section 69 have been satisfied,
the court must hold a trial within the trial to
decide whether the party seeking to rely on the
document has established the foundation
requirements of section 69 . 125 13.5 In essence, the party relying on computer
evidence must first prove that the computer is
reliable – or, if the evidence was generated by
more than one computer, that each of them is
reliable (Cochrane [1993] Crim LR 48). This
can be proved by tendering a written
certificate, or by calling oral evidence. It is
not possible for the party adducing the
computer evidence to rely on a presumption
that the computer is working correctly
(Shephard [1993] AC 380, 384E). It is also
necessary for the computer records themselves
to be produced to the court (Burr v DPP [1996]
Crim LR 324). The problems with the present law
13.6 In the consultation paper we came to the
conclusion that the present law was
unsatisfactory, for five reasons. 13.7 First, section 69 fails to address the major
causes of inaccuracy in computer evidence. As
Professor Tapper has pointed out, “most
computer error is either immediately detectable
or results from error in the data entered into the
machine”. 13.8 Secondly, advances in computer
technology make it increasingly difficult
to comply with section 69 : it is becoming
“increasingly impractical to examine (and
therefore certify) all the intricacies of
computer operation”. These problems existed
even before networking became common. 13.9 A third problem lies in the difficulties
confronting the recipient of a computer­
produced document who wishes to tender it in 126 evidence: the recipient may be in no position to
satisfy the court about the operation of the
computer. It may well be that the recipient’s
opponent is better placed to do this. 13.10 Fourthly, it is illogical that section 69
applies where the document is tendered in
evidence (Shephard [1993] AC 380), but not
where it is used by an expert in arriving at his
or her conclusions (Golizadeh [1995] Crim LR 232), nor where a witness uses it to refresh his
or her memory (Sophocleous v Ringer [1988]
RTR 52). If it is safe to admit evidence which
relies on and incorporates the output from the
computer, it is hard to see why that output
should not itself be admissible; and conversely,
if it is not safe to admit the output, it can hardly
be safe for a witness to rely on it. 13.11 At the time of the publication of the
consultation paper there was also a problem
arising from the interpretation of section 69 . It
was held by the Divisional Court in McKeown v
DPP ([1995] Crim LR 69) that computer evidence
is inadmissible if it cannot be proved that the
computer was functioning properly – even
though the malfunctioning of the computer had
no effect on the accuracy of the material
produced. Thus, in that case, computer
evidence could not be relied on because there
was a malfunction in the clock part of an
Intoximeter machine, although it had no effect
on the accuracy of the material part of the
printout (the alcohol reading). On appeal, this
interpretation has now been rejected by the
House of Lords: only malfunctions that affect
the way in which a computer processes, stores
or retrieves the information used to generate 127 the statement are relevant to section 69 (DPP v
McKeown; DPP v Jones [1997] 1 WLR 295). 13.12 In coming to our conclusion that the
present law did not work satisfactorily, we
noted that in Scotland, some Australian
states, New Zealand, the United States
and Canada, there is no separate scheme
for computer evidence, and yet no
problems appear to arise. Our provisional
view was that section 69 fails to serve any
useful purpose, and that other systems operate
effectively and efficiently without it. 13.13 We provisionally proposed that section
69 of PACE be repealed without replacement.
Without section 69 , a common law presumption
comes into play (Phipson, para 23­14, approved
by the Divisional Court in Castle v Cross [1984]
1 WLR 1372, 1377B): The response on consultation
13.15 On consultation, the vast majority of
those who dealt with this point agreed with us.
A number of those in favour said that section 69 had caused much trouble with
little benefit. 13.16 The most cogent contrary argument
against our proposal came from David
Ormerod. In his helpful response, he contended
that the common law presumption of regularity
may not extend to cases in which computer
evidence is central. He cites the assertion of the
Privy Council in Dillon v R ([1982] AC 484) that
“it is well established that the courts will not
presume the existence of facts which are
central to an offence”. If this were literally true
it would be of great importance in cases where
computer evidence is central, such as
Intoximeter cases (R v Medway Magistrates’
Court, ex p Goddard [1995] RTR 206). But such
evidence has often been permitted to satisfy a
central element of the prosecution case. Some
of these cases were decided before section 69 was introduced (Castle v Cross [1984] 1 WLR
1372); others have been decided since its
introduction, but on the assumption (now held
to be mistaken) (Shephard [1993] AC 380) that
it did not apply because the statement
produced by the computer was not hearsay
(Spiby (1990) 91 Cr App R 186; Neville [1991]
Crim LR 288). The presumption must have been
applicable; yet the argument successfully relied
upon in Dillon does not appear to have been
raised. 129 13.17 It should also be noted that Dillon was
concerned not with the presumption regarding
machines but with the presumption of the
regularity of official action. This latter
presumption was the analogy on which the
presumption for machines was originally
based; but it is not a particularly close analogy,
and the two presumptions are now clearly
distinct. 13.18 Even where the presumption applies, it
ceases to have any effect once evidence of
malfunction has been adduced. The question is,
what sort of evidence must the defence adduce,
and how realistic is it to suppose that the
defence will be able to adduce it without any
knowledge of the working of the machine? On
the one hand the concept of the evidential
burden is a flexible one: a party cannot be
required to produce more by way of evidence
than one in his or her position could be
expected to produce. It could therefore take
very little for the presumption to be rebutted, if
the party against whom the evidence was
adduced could not be expected to produce
more. For example, in Cracknell v Willis ([1988]
AC 450) the House of Lords held that a
defendant is entitled to challenge an
Intoximeter reading, in the absence of any
signs of malfunctioning in the machine itself, by
testifying (or calling others to testify) about the
amount of alcohol that he or she had drunk. 13.19 On the other hand it may be unrealistic
to suppose that in such circumstances the
presumption would not prevail. In Cracknell v
Willis Lord Griffiths ([1988] AC 450 at p 468C–
D) said: 130 13.21 These dicta may perhaps be read as
implying that evidence which merely
contradicts the reading, without directly casting
doubt on the reliability of the device, may be
technically admissible but should rarely be
permitted to succeed. However, it is significant
that Lord Goff referred in the passage quoted to
the safeguards for defendants which are built
into the legislation creating the drink­driving
offences. In the case of other kinds of computer
evidence, where (apart from section 69 ) no such
statutory safeguards exist, we think that the
courts can be relied upon to apply the
presumption in such a way as to recognise the
difficulty faced by a defendant who seeks to
challenge the prosecution’s evidence but is not
in a position to do so directly. The presumption
continues to apply to machines other than
computers (and until recently was applied to
non­hearsay statements by computers) without
the safeguard of section 69 ; and we are not
aware of any cases where it has caused
injustice because the evidential burden cast on 132 the defence was unduly onerous. Bearing in
 mind that it is a creature of the common law,
 and a comparatively modern one, we think it is
 unlikely that it would be permitted to work
 injustice. 13.22 Finally it should not be forgotten that section 69 applies equally to computer evidence
 adduced by the defence. A rule that prevents a
 defendant from adducing relevant and cogent
 evidence, merely because there is no positive
 evidence that it is reliable, is in our view unfair.

 Our recommendation
 13.23 We are satisfied that section 69 serves no useful purpose. We are not
 aware of any difficulties encountered in
 those jurisdictions that have no
 equivalent. We are satisfied that the
 presumption of proper functioning would apply
 to computers, thus throwing an evidential
 burden on to the opposing party, but that that
 burden would be interpreted in such a way as
 to ensure that the presumption did not result in
 a conviction merely because the defence had
 failed to adduce evidence of malfunction which
 it was in no position to adduce. We believe, as
 did the vast majority of our respondents, that
 such a regime would work fairly. We
 recommend the repeal of section 69 of
 PACE. (Recommendation 50)
 (emphasis supplied) 37. Based on the above recommendations of the U.K. Law

 Commission, Section 69 of the PACE, 1984, was 133 declared by Section 60 of the Youth Justice and

 Criminal Evidence Act, 1999, to have ceased to have

 effect. Section 60 of the 1999 Act reads as follows: 38. It will be clear from the above discussion that when our

 lawmakers passed the Information Technology Bill in

 the year 2000, adopting the language of Section 5 of

 the UK Civil Evidence Act, 1968 to a great extent, the

 said provision had already been repealed by the UK

 Civil Evidence Act, 1995 and even the Police and

 Criminal Evidence Act, 1984 was revamped by the

 1999 Act to permit hearsay evidence, by repealing Section 69 of PACE, 1984. POSITION IN CANADA 39. Pursuant to a proposal mooted by the Canadian Bar

 Association hundred years ago, requesting all

 Provincial Governments to provide for the appointment 134 of Commissioners to attend conferences organised for

 the purpose of promoting uniformity of legislation

 among the provinces, a meeting of the Commissioners

 took place in Montreal in 1918. In the said meeting, a

 Conference of Commissioners on Uniformity of Laws

 throughout Canada was organised. In 1974, its name

 was changed to Uniform Law Conference of Canada.

 The objective of the Conference is primarily to achieve

 uniformity in subjects covered by existing legislations.

 The said Conference recommended a model law on

 Uniform Electronic Evidence in September 1998. 40. The above recommendations of the Uniform Law

 Conference later took shape in the form of

 amendments to the Canada Evidence Act, 1985. Section 31 .1 of the said Act deals with authentication

 of electronic documents and it reads as follows: 41. Section 31 .2 deals with the application of ‘best

 evidence rule’ in relation to electronic documents and it

 reads as follows: Printouts
 (2) Despite subsection (1), in the absence of
 evidence to the contrary, an electronic
 document in the form of a printout satisfies the
 best evidence rule if the printout has been
 manifestly or consistently acted on, relied on or
 used as a record of the information recorded or
 stored in the printout. 42. Section 31 .3 indicates the method of proving the

 integrity of an electronic documents system, by or in

 which an electronic document is recorded or stored. Section 31 .3 reads as follows: 136 (b) if it is established that the electronic
 document was recorded or stored by a party
 who is adverse in interest to the party seeking
 to introduce it; or (c) if it is established that the electronic
 document was recorded or stored in the
 usual and ordinary course of business by a
 person who is not a party and who did not
 record or store it under the control of the party
 seeking to introduce it. 43. Section 31 .5 is an interesting provision which permits

 evidence to be presented in respect of any

 standard, procedure, usage or practice concerning

 the manner in which electronic documents are to

 be recorded or stored. This is for the purpose of 137 determining under any rule of law whether an

 electronic document is admissible. Section 31 .5 reads

 as follows: 44. Under Section 31 .6(1), matters covered by Section

 31 .2(2), namely the printout of an electronic document,

 the matters covered by Section 31 .3, namely the

 integrity of an electronic documents system, and

 matters covered by Section 31 .5, namely evidence in

 respect of any standard, procedure, usage or practice,

 may be established by affidavit. Section 31 .6 reads as

 follows: Cross­examination
 (2) A party may cross­examine a deponent of
 an affidavit referred to in subsection (1) that
 has been introduced in evidence (a) as of right, if the deponent is an adverse
 party or is under the control of an adverse
 party; and (b) with leave of the court, in the case of any
 other deponent. 45. Though a combined reading of Sections 31 .3 and

 31.6(1) of the Canada Evidence Act, 1985, gives an

 impression as though a requirement similar to the one

 under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 also

 finds a place in the Canadian law, there is a very

 important distinction found in the Canadian law. Section 31 .3(b) takes care of a contingency where

 the electronic document was recorded or stored by

 a party who is adverse in interest to the party

 seeking to produce it. Similarly, Section 31 .3(c)

 gives leverage for the party relying upon an 139 electronic document to establish that the same

 was recorded or stored in the usual and ordinary

 course of business by a person who is not a party

 and who did not record or store it under the

 control of the party seeking to introduce it.

IV. Conclusion 46. It will be clear from the above discussion that the

 major jurisdictions of the world have come to terms

 with the change of times and the development of

 technology and fine­tuned their legislations. Therefore,

 it is the need of the hour that there is a relook at Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, introduced 20

 years ago, by Act 21 of 2000, and which has created a

 huge judicial turmoil, with the law swinging from one

 extreme to the other in the past 15 years from Navjot 140 Sandhu31 to Anvar P.V.32 to Tomaso Bruno33 to

 Sonu34 to Shafhi Mohammad.35 47. With the above note, I respectfully agree with

 conclusions reached by R. F. Nariman, J. that the

 appeals are to be dismissed with costs as proposed. ...…..………..................... .J.
 (V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN)

JULY 14, 2020
NEW DELHI

31 State (NCT of Delhi) vs. Navjot Sandhu , ( 2005) 11 SCC 600
32 Anvar P.V. vs. P.K. Basheer , ( 2014) 10 SCC 473
33 Tomaso Bruno vs. State of UP , (2015) 7 SCC 178
34 Sonu vs. State of Haryana, ( 2017) 8 SCC 570
35 Shafhi Mohammad vs. The State of Himachal Pradesh , (2018) 2 SCC 801 141