SANJEEV NARULA, J
I.A No. 6896/2018 (under Order XXXIX Rules 1 And 2, CPC ) & IA No.
8837/2018 (under Order XXXIX Rule 4, CPC ) 1. Plaintiff by way of the present suit inter alia seeks permanent injunction
restraining the Defendant from adopting and using (A) the trade mark/trade
name 'Make My Travel' (word per se), MMT (letter mark) and the tag line
'Dreams Unlimited' (hereinafter, the "Impugned WordMarks"); (B) the

MakeMyTravel Logo, i.e., which includes the Infringing
Word Marks, namely, MMT and Dreams Unlimited (hereinafter, the CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 1 of 22 "Impugned Logo") and (C) their domain name <makemytravelindia.com>
(hereinafter, the "Impugned Domain Name") [hereinafter, these marks are
collectively referred to as the "Impugned Marks"]; as the same are violative
of the Plaintiff‟s statutory and common law rights in its own trade marks (A)
MAKEMYTRIP (hereinafter, the "MakeMyTrip Word Mark"); (B) MMT
(hereinafter, the "MMT Letter Mark") and (C) the tag lines MEMORIES
UNLIMITED and HOTELS UNLIMITED (hereinafter, the "Plaintiff‟s Tag
Lines"). For the sake of convenience, the terms MakeMyTrip Word Mark,
MMT Letter Mark and Plaintiff‟s Tag Lines are collectively referred to as
"MakeMyTrip Marks". Submission of the Plaintiff 2. The case of the Plaintiff [MakeMyTrip (India) Private Limited] is that it
was incorporated in the year 2000 and started its business initially with
airline ticket bookings and is today one of the largest travel companies in the
country. It has presence all across India and several other countries around
the world including in the United States of America, the United Arab
Emirates and Mauritius. Plaintiff was originally incorporated on 13th April
2000, with the trade name 'Travel by Web Private Limited' and
subsequently, vide a fresh Certificate of Incorporation, dated 02 August
2000, its trade name changed to 'Makemytrip.com Pvt. Ltd'. Thereafter, on
28 June 2002, another change was effected and that remains its current and
present name, i.e., 'MakeMyTrip (India) Pvt. Ltd.' Over the years, the
Plaintiff has expanded its range of products and services beyond online
travel bookings. Presently, the Plaintiff, through its primary website,
www.makemytrip.com and other technology-enhanced platforms including CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 2 of 22 application based mobile platforms, etc., offers an extensive range of travel
services and products, both in India and abroad. The said services of the
Plaintiff include, booking of air tickets, rail tickets, bus tickets, hotel
reservations, car hire, domestic and international holiday packages and
ancillary travel requirements such as facilitating access to travel insurance. 3. After changing its trade name to include the words "MakeMyTrip" on 2nd
August 2000, the Plaintiff has continuously and uninterruptedly used the
trade marks MakeMyTrip and MMT, the MakeMyTrip Word Mark as well
as the MMT Letter Mark. The tag line "Memories Unlimited" and "Hotels
Unlimited", have also been continuously and uninterruptedly used by the
Plaintiff for its business activities since the day they were conceived. The
MakeMyTrip Marks, including the MakeMyTrip Word Mark, MMT Letter
Mark and Plaintiff‟s Tag Lines are invented terms, and have earned
immense reputation and goodwill on account of extensive and continuous
use by the Plaintiff. The domain <makemytrip.com> was registered way
back on 8th May 2000 and stands in the name of the founder of the Plaintiff
Company, namely, Mr. Deep Kalra. Plaintiff has been hosting an interactive
website on the said domain name, since as early as 2001. Due to extensive
use, now spanning almost seventeen (17) years, the MakeMyTrip Word
Mark is synonymous with high standards of quality in respect of services
provided by the Plaintiff. In order to add further distinctiveness and brand
recall to its MakeMyTrip Word Mark, the Plaintiff, over the years, has
conceived, adopted and used various catchy and stylized logos, all of which
contain the MakeMyTrip Word Mark, as their essential feature. Some such
logos conceived, adopted and used by the Plaintiff, in different unique and CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 3 of 22 stylized forms, include , ,

 , , ,
(the "MakeMyTrip logo marks"). Owing to the Plaintiff‟s widespread
goodwill and reputation in its MakeMyTrip Marks, the public and trade has
come to associate and recognize the MakeMyTrip Word Mark and
MakeMyTrip Logo Marks as originating from the Plaintiff and none else.
Thus, any unauthorized use of the MakeMyTrip Marks and/or any other
deceptively similar mark would violate the Plaintiff‟s statutory and common
law rights and an effort to ride upon the immense reputation and goodwill
garnered by the Plaintiff in its MakeMyTrip Marks. 4. Plaintiff is also the registered proprietor of the MakeMyTrip Word Mark
and MakeMyTrip Logo Marks. The sales turnover attributable to the
Plaintiff‟s MakeMyTrip Marks in India alone runs into several crores of
Rupees. With a view to promote its MakeMyTrip Marks, the Plaintiff has
made and continues to make substantial investment in advertising and
promotional activities on a worldwide basis, including India. The
promotional activities are done not only through conventional print media,
but also digital media on the Internet. There is a strong social media
presence and has been conferred with several awards and accolades. It has
also been enforcing its rights in the MMT Marks through litigation as well
as domain name complaints. 5. Sometime in the month of December 2017, while browsing through the
Internet, the Plaintiff came to know about the Defendant and its Infringing
Marks. Plaintiff carried out further investigation and came across the
website of the Defendant, https://www.makemytravelindia.com/ being
hosted on the Impugned Domain Name, wherein the Defendant was offering
information pertaining to travel tours and packages, which services are
identical to that of the Plaintiff. Being aggrieved by the adoption and use of
the Infringing Mark and Infringing Domain Name, the Plaintiff, through its
Counsel, issued a cease and desist notice requisitioning the Defendant to,
inter alia, cease all use of the Infringing Marks and Infringing Domain
Name. 6. For the sake of full disclosure, the Plaintiff submits that in the past it had
exchanged a few correspondences with two individuals- Mr. Desh Raj
Yadav and one Mr. Kishan Panara, whose email addresses were [email protected] and [email protected] respectively.
Plaintiff is not aware of whether these two individuals and email addresses
are in any way connected with theDefendant. 7. The infringement and passing off of Plaintiff‟s marks is proved by
following factors: Submissions of the Defendant 8. It is the case of the Defendant that the suit is barred by Section 33 of the
Trade Marks Act 1999. Plaintiff and its officials were aware that Defendant
had incorporated a company by name of Make My Travel (India) Private
Limited and is doing business under the name of Make My Travel (India)
Private Limited, since the year 2010-2011. There have been several email
exchanges between the officials of Plaintiff and officials of Defendant
during the period 2011 to 2017. Plaintiff and Defendant are members of
various associations where in the list of members, their name appears
alongside each other. In the years 2011 to 2017, Plaintiff and Defendant had
entered into business transactions and on occasions, money was transferred
from the account of Defendant to that of the Plaintiff. Plaintiff despite being
aware of use of the name „Make My Travel (India) Private Limited‟ by the
Defendant, has not objected to the same. Plaintiff has also acquiesced to the
use of trade mark/trade name Make My Travel, MMT and tag line
DREAMS UNLIMITED and make my travel logo for a continuous period of
five years and more and it cannot object to the use thereof. Since the very
beginning, Defendant company was using the letter marks MMT in all its
email accounts and other communication, this fact was known to the
Plaintiff and its officials since the year 2011. Plaintiff company has adopted
the letter mark MMT much later i.e. in and around the year 2015 and 2016. 9. With respect to the emails exchanged with Mr Desh Raj Yadav and Mr
Kishan Panara, it was clarified that the said persons and their IDs have never
been not associated with the Defendant company in any manner whatsoever. Proceedings in the suit 10. The case first came up for hearing before this Court on 17th May 2018.
On the said date, temporary ad-interim injunction was granted in favour of
the Plaintiff, restraining the Defendant from using in any manner
whatsoever, selling, offering for sale, advertising directly or indirectly
dealing in any products or services under the infringing marks, namely
Make My Travel (word per se), MMT (letter mark). Dreams unlimited (tag
line), www.makemytravelindia.com and Make My Travel logos,

 or any other trade mark/trade name/trade dress or
logo/device, which is identical to and/or deceptively similar to and/or
plaintiffs MakeMyTrip logo marks, namely, MakeMyTrip (word mark),
MMT (letter mark) and Memories Unlimited and Hotels Unlimited (tag
line). The said injunction is continuing. On 20th September 2018 certain
compromise proposals were stated to have been discussed between the
parties. However, on 10th October 2018, it was submitted that an amicable
resolution could not be arrived at and the proceedings have continued since
then. Analysis and Conclusion 11. The Court heard the learned counsels for the parties at length. The main
relief sought in the suit is for permanent injunction restraining infringement
of trademarks and passing off. As noted above, the interim injunction is
continuing and the court has been called upon to deliberate upon the
question whether the same should be confirmed or vacated. 12. The main thrust of the argument of the Defendant is premised on the
ground that Plaintiff‟s suit is not bonafide. Plaintiff has suppressed material
facts, and not disclosed that the Defendant and its impugned marks were
known to the Plaintiff since the year 2011, contrary to what has been
pleaded in the suit. Defendant has also strongly emphasized that the
Plaintiff has deliberately withheld from the court vital documents viz the
communications exchanged between the booking executives and the
franchisees of the Plaintiff, pertaining to the year 2011. In support of this
submission, the Defendant has placed on record and relied upon email
conversations exchanged between the Defendant and the booking customer
care executives of the Plaintiff which exhibit the use of the impugned marks
by the Defendant. To further buttress this argument, learned counsel for the
Defendant has sought to highlight the conduct of the Plaintiff by relying
upon the decision of this Court concerning the Plaintiff: MakeMyTrip
(India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Orbit Corporate Leisure Travels (I) Private
Limited2017 SCC OnLine Del 12172. 13. In addition to the aforegoing ground of defence, the Defendant has also
set up the plea of acquiescence, alleging that since the Plaintiff has CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 8 of 22 previously not objected to the use of the name MakeMyTravel (India) Pvt.
Ltd by the Defendant, it cannot now be permitted to object to the use of the
said name. It had been further contended that Plaintiff and its officials were
aware of the use of the letter mark MMT and the tagline „Dreams Unlimited‟
and MakeMyTravel Logo by the Defendants since the year 2011 and thus
the Plaintiff has acquiesced to the use of trademark/trade name
MakeMyTravel, MMT and tagline „Dreams Unlimited‟ and MakeMyTravel
Logo for a continuous period of five years and cannot object to the use of
the said marks. 14. At the preliminary stage of the suit, while deciding the application of the
Plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 as also the application of the Defendant
under Order 39 Rule 4, the court has to keep in mind the well settled
principles governing the grant of injunction viz. prima facie case; balance of
convenience and the harm or injury likely to be caused on account of the
impugned acts of the Defendant. As per plaint, Plaintiff adopted and
commenced the use of the trademark MakeMyTrip in the year 2000 for
providing travel related services and Plaintiff has been using the primary
website <www.makemytrip.com> since the year 2001. Learned counsel
for the Plaintiff has further submitted that subsequent to filing of the present
suit, Plaintiff has also secured registration of the word marks „MakeMy‟ and
„Go-MMT‟. Plaintiff claims that they had been using the MMT letter mark
which has been thoughtfully conceived by taking first three alphabets of its
trade name MakeMyTrip. Plaintiff is now commonly referred to by the
abbreviation MMT within the trade and by consumers. It adopted and
commenced the tag lines „MEMORIES UNLIMTED‟ in April and CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 9 of 22 „HOTELS UNLIMITED‟ in May 2013. Defendant has adopted (A) the trade
mark „Make My Travel‟; (B) letter mark MMT (C) tag line „Dreams

Unlimited‟; (D) MakeMyTravel Logo i.e. . On comparison of
the Defendant‟s marks with those of the Plaintiff, one can easily notice that
the same are phonetically, visually, structurally and conceptually
identical/deceptively similar to the Plaintiffs MakeMyTrip Marks.
Defendants has not offered any plausible explanation for adoption of the
infringing marks. The mark „MakeMyTrip‟ and „MakeMyTravel‟ are
combination of three words where the two words are identical and the last
word „travel‟ and „trip‟ convey the same meaning, idea and concept. 15. Concededly, the nature of goods/services in respect of which the two
trademarks have been used is also common, inasmuch as both the Plaintiff
and Defendant are in the business of online travel booking services. The
target audience likely to use the services of the parties is also the same. 16. The Supreme Court in several decisions has laid down the test which is
to be applied while evaluating the question regarding the infringement. In
the case of F. Hoffman La Roche v. Geofferey Manners reported in (1969)
2 SCC 716, the Apex Court held that true test is whether the totality of the
proposed trade mark is such that it is likely to cause deception or confusion
or mistake in the minds of persons accustomed to the existing trade mark. In
the said case, while deciding the question of infringement relating to
trademark "PROTOVIT" and "DROPOVIT", it was held that marks have to CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 10 of 22 be compared from the point of view of a person of imperfect recollection and
meticulous comparison of both the words side by side is not to be made, but
the marks are to be compared as a whole looking at the first impression
created in the minds of the consumer. The Court has to lay stress on the
common features rather than on the differences in essential features. In the
case of Cadilla Healthcare Ltd. v. Cadilla Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 2001 PTC
541 (SC), the Supreme Court was deliberating on the question of
infringement in relation to two brand names "FALCITAB" and
"FALCIGO". Referring to its earlier judgment in Amritdhara Pharmacy v.
Satyadev Gupta AIR 1963 SC 449, the Court held that for deceptive
resemblance, two important questions that need to be kept in mind are i)
who are the persons that the resemblance must be likely to deceive or
confuse and ii) what rules of comparison are to be adopted in judging
whether such resemblance exists. It was further held that confusion is
perhaps an appropriate description of the state of mind of a consumer who
on seeing a mark thinks that it differs from the mark on goods which he has
previously bought, but is doubtful whether the impression is not due to
imperfect recollection. 17. Further, in Shree Nath Heritage Liquor Pvt. Ltd. v Allied Blender &
Distillers Pvt. Ltd. (2015) 221 DLT 359, this Court while dealing with the
marks OFFICER‟S CHOICE and COLLECTOR‟s CHOICE elucidated the
concept of similarity in idea of a trademark and use of synonyms as
trademarks. The Court elaborately discussed the different types of synonymy
observed in adoption of trademarks or trade names classifying the same into
absolute synonymy and relative synonymy. It was held that in case of CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 11 of 22 relative synonymy, words or phrases may be similar in certain contexts
while not in others and in such cases, where certain words which may not
be similar in every context but convey the same idea in a particular context,
similar brand name recollection impairment may be observed. Thus, it was
held that marks containing words with the same sense relation (or falling in
the same semantic field, or conveying the same or similar idea in the mind)
as that of previously existing marks are likely to be considered so similar as
to be refused registration or deemed to constitute infringement of the
previously existing trademark. The said judgment was recently followed in
the case of The Gillette Company v Tigaksha Metallics Private Limited 251(2018)DLT530, wherein the Court held that the device mark

is deceptively similar to the Plaintiff‟s mark , as the words
SWORD and TALVAR convey the same meaning. In Corn Products
Refining v Shangrila Food Products AIR 1960 SC 142 also, the Apex
Court noted the concept of similarity of idea. In the said case, the Court was
dealing with the marks GLUCOVITA and GLUVITA and it was observed
that the idea of the two marks is the same as both convey the ideas of
glucose and life giving properties of vitamins and to a person of average
intelligence and imperfect recollection, the overall structural and phonetic
similarity and the similarity of the idea in the two marks is reasonably likely
to cause confusion. Reference may also be made to the case of Prathiba M.
Singh v. Singh and Associates , 2014 ( 60 ) PTC 257 ( Del ), wherein this
Court discussed the concepts of "priming" and "word association" and it CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 12 of 22 was observed as under: Another author on the basis of psycholinguistic studies has CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 13 of 22 reported that words are not stored in our mental lexicon as
 single items, but forming clusters with related concepts. Yet
 others have reported that our brains use some kind of
 connections between lexical items and that it associates words
 with others." In the present case also, while the first two words of the marks MakeMyTrip
and MakeMyTravel are identical, the last words, TRIP and TRAVEL are
similar and convey the same idea. Similarly, the Defendant‟s tag line
DREAMS UNLIMITED is deceptively similar to the Plaintiff‟s taglines
HOTELS UNLIMITED and MEMORIES UNLIMITED. While the second
word in the tag lines is identical, the first words DREAMS, MEMORIES
and HOTELS, when considered in the context of travel and holiday related
services, may be used in the same context or idea. 18. In view of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the aforegoing
judgments and having regard to the facts of the case, there cannot be any
doubt that the Plaintiff has a strong prima facie case and the balance of
convenience also lies in its favour. In case the Defendant is permitted to
continue to use infringing marks, grave and serious prejudice is likely to be
caused to the Plaintiff. 19. Now, coming to the Defendant‟s plea regarding suppression of facts and
acquiescence. Plaintiff has strongly refuted the Defendant‟s allegation qua
suppression of facts in respect of the communications which have been
placed on record. Plaintiff has explained that it is a large organization
having over 3000 employees across India and in addition to these CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 14 of 22 employees, it has a large franchise network which works independently of
the Plaintiff company. It has further been clarified that the communications
relied upon by the Defendants were allegedly exchanged between the
booking executives of the Plaintiff and the franchisees of the Plaintiff in the
year 2011. Prima facie, it appears that such email communications were not
exchanged with the management of the Plaintiff Company or any of its key
managerial personnel who could be regarded as persons who ought to be
aware of Defendant‟s existence. Although, for the sake of complete
discovery, the Plaintiff should have placed on record all the communications
exchanged between the parties including the franchisees, but failure to do so,
cannot lead to assumption that there has been willful concealment on its
part. This aspect would require trial, having regard to the nature of the
Plaintiff‟s business which is based on a large network of booking
executives, who are stated to be lowest rung employees. It is quite possible
that such communications and correspondences were not known to any of
the key managerial personnel of the Plaintiff Company. Further, as pointed
out by the Plaintiff‟s counsel, some of the communications were exchanged
with the email addresses [email protected] and [email protected] , which ids pertain to the franchisees and not
the Plaintiff Company. Correspondences sent by the franchisees could
possibly be not known to the key managerial personnel of the Plaintiff
Company. It is also significant, as pointed out by Plaintiff‟s counsel, that the
email communications exchanged between the automated response system
and the officials of the Defendant Company are unnamed. Plaintiff‟s
explanation regarding the bank statement of HDFC bank that the
transactions reflected therein were completed by the franchisee and its CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 15 of 22 knowledge cannot be attributed to the Plaintiff, appears to be plausible,
keeping in mind its business model. Besides, Defendant has not placed on
record any email communication exchanged with the management of the
Plaintiff Company, or any of its key managerial personnel who ought to
have been aware of Defendant‟s existence. Therefore, it is not a case where
the Plaintiff can be held to be guilty of suppression of facts. 20. Significantly, it cannot go unnoticed that the adoption of the mark by the
Defendants is without any cogent explanation, and it prima facie appears to
be dishonest. It cannot be accepted that the Plaintiff has acquiesced the use
of the infringing mark by the Defendant. The correspondence with the
booking customer care executive of the Plaintiff who apparently did not
have knowledge of the intellectual property rights of the Plaintiff, cannot be
considered as positive acts of encouragement towards the Defendant to do
business under Infringing/Impugned Marks. 21. I have also perused the orders passed by this Court in the case of MakeMyTrip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Orbit Corporate Leisure Travels (I)
Private Limited (supra), where this Court on the plea of suppression, vacated
the interim injunction granted against the Defendants and dismissed the
application of the Plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2, CPC , 1908. In the
said case, the two competing marks were „MakeMyTrip‟ and „GetMyTrip‟.
Plaintiff contends that in the said case, the Defendant therein has made a
false statement which resulted in vacation of interim injunction and the
Plaintiff had instituted an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C for perjury
against the Defendants and has also filed the second interim application for CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 16 of 22 interim relief which led the parties to settle the matter amicably. Reliance is
also placed on the other orders passed by the Court that records the filing of
the aforenoted application. 22. The facts of the said case as recorded in the aforenoted order reveal that
Defendant therein approached the Court by way of an application under
Order 39 Rule 4 contending that the Plaintiff had prior knowledge of the
Defendant‟s predecessor-in-interest using the trademark „GetMyTrip‟ and
the Plaintiff had been doing business with the said predecessor-in-interest of
the Defendant under the mark „GetMyTrip‟ since 2011. This contention was
duly taken note of in paras 7 and 8 of the said decision which read as under:- 23. Taking note of the above, the Court inter alia observed as under:- 24. From the above, it can be easily discerned that there was an agreement
between Defendant‟s predecessor-in-interest and the Plaintiff, and this
crucial factor prevailed upon the Court to accept the plea of acquiescence
and to hold that the use of the mark „GetMyTrip‟ was within the knowledge
of the Plaintiff. In the present case, there is no such agreement on record and
the plea of acquiescence is premised merely on the basis of email
communications exchanged with booking customer care executives. Thus, I
cannot, at this stage, hold that the Plaintiff has acquiesced to the use of the
infringing marks by the Defendant. Similarly, the decision in Triumphant
Institute of Management Education Pvt. Ltd. v Aspiring Mind Assessment
Pvt. Ltd. (2014) 210 DLT 618, relied on by the Defendant, is distinguishable CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 19 of 22 on the facts and circumstances prevailing therein. In the said case, the
factum of concealment of material fact and acquiescence had been proved,
by the Defendants therein. 25. The law relating to acquiescence is well established. In Hindustan
Pencils Private Limited v. India Stationary Products Co. AIR 1990 Del 19,
this Court dealt elaborately with the question of delay and acquiescence. It
has been held that in order to claim the defence of acquiescence, there
should be a tacit or an express assent by the plaintiff to the defendant's using
the mark and in a way encouraging the defendants to continue with the
business. It is as if the plaintiff wants the defendant to be under the belief
that the plaintiff does not regard the action of the defendant as being
violative of the plaintiff's rights. In Dr. Reddy Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. v.
Reddy Pharmaceuticals 2013 SCC OnLine Del 3626, the Court took note of
the fact that the owners of trademarks or copyrights cannot be expected to
run after every infringer and thereby remain involved in litigation at the cost
of their business time, but can wait till the time the user of their name starts
harming their business interests and starts misleading and confusing their
customers. In Emcure Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Corona Remedies Pvt. Ltd. 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 1064, the Bombay High Court extensively
discussed the defence of acquiescence as available to an alleged infringer of
trademark. It was held that a mere failure to sue without a positive act of
encouragement is no defence and is not acquiescence. Further, examining
the concept of "acquiescence", it was observed that acquiescence is a species
of estoppel, a rule in equity and a rule of evidence and it is essential to
the acquiescence doctrine that it is accompanied by an encouragement or an CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 20 of 22 inducement: he who possesses a legal right must have encouraged the
alleged violator of that right in acting to the latter's detriment, confident in
the knowledge that the former is not asserting his rights against
theviolator. Acquiescence is sitting by when another invades your rights and
spends money in the doing of it. It is conduct incompatible with claims of
exclusivity, but it requires positive acts, not mere silence or inaction (of the
stripe involved in the concept of laches). Acquiescence is not mere
negligence or oversight. There must be the abandonment of the right to
exclusivity. In Midas Hygiene Industries v. Sudhir Bhatia 2004 (28) PTC
121 (SC) the Apex Court held that mere delay in bringing action is not
sufficient to defeat grant of injunction in infringement cases. 26. Significantly, Defendant has no justification or defense for the use of the
infringing marks, except for the plea of suppression and acquiescence, both
of which would require a further and deeper scrutiny and examination
during the course of trial. Thus, having regard to the aforesaid facts, the
Court is of the considered opinion that Plaintiff has a prima facie case and
the balance of convenience also lies in favour of the Plaintiff. Irreparable
loss would be caused to the Plaintiff if the Defendant is not retrained from
using the impugned marks. 27. Accordingly, I.A. No. 6869/2018is allowed and the injunction order
dated 17th May 2018 is made absolute and shall continue to operate during
the pendency of the present suit. Consequently, I.A. No. 8837/2018 is
dismissed. No order as to costs. The opinion expressed by the Court is only
a prima facie view on the merits of the case and needless to say the same CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 21 of 22 shall not have any binding effect at stage of final adjudication. SANJEEV NARULA, J. OCTOBER 18, 2019
ss CS(COMM) 889/2018 Page 22 of 22