The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) on August 11 announced that it is exploring rules to crack down on harmful commercial surveillance and lax data security and is seeking public comments on the same. “Specifically, the Commission invites comment on whether it should implement new trade regulation rules or other regulatory alternatives concerning the ways in which companies (1) collect, aggregate, protect, use, analyze, and retain consumer data, as well as (2) transfer, share, sell, or otherwise monetize that data in ways that are unfair or deceptive,” the FTC notice stated.

“Firms now collect personal data on individuals at a massive scale and in a stunning array of contexts. The growing digitization of our economy—coupled with business models that can incentivize endless hoovering up of sensitive user data and a vast expansion of how this data is used—means that potentially unlawful practices may be prevalent.” — FTC Chair Lina M. Khan.

Why does this matter? Despite being the home to tech companies that amass the most amount of user data worldwide, the US does not have a law that regulates what data is collected and how it’s used. For years, lawmakers have tried to pass a federal privacy law, but to no avail. The US lags behind the EU, China, and others on this front. Some states like California, Virginia, and Colorado have their own privacy laws, and there are also sector-specific laws, but all these only protect a subset of US citizens or cases. A new privacy bill was introduced by lawmakers in June but it has a long way to go before it becomes law. The FTC’s rules on this front might see the light of day sooner than the other efforts.

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

“Commercial surveillance is the business of collecting, analyzing, and profiting from information about people,” the FTC explained. Key features of commercial surveillance include:

“Whether they know it or not, most Americans today surrender their personal information to engage in the most basic aspects of modern life. When they buy groceries, do homework, or apply for car insurance, for example, consumers today likely give a wide range of personal information about themselves to companies, including their movements, prayers, friends, menstrual cycles, web-browsing, and faces, among other basic aspects of their lives.” — FTC

According to the FTC, commercial surveillance poses the following concerns:

Here are a few selected questions that FTC has posed to the public. The full list of about 100 questions can be found here .

The public can submit comments on the following questions via https://www.regulations.gov within 60 days of the notice and/or share their input on these topics during a virtual public forum on September 8, 2022.

Consumer harm

Harm to children

Balancing costs and benefits

Regulatory

Data Security

Collection, Use, Retention, and Transfer of Consumer Data

Automated decision-making systems

Discrimination based on protected categories

Consumer consent

Notice, transparency, and disclosure

Obsolescence

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event