(Per
: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE J.B.PARDIWALA)
 

 

 

	The
present appeal is directed against judgment and order dated 1st
February 2010 passed by the learned Single Judge in Special Civil
Application No.11776 of 2002 preferred by the respondent herein
challenging the action of the appellant-corporation in terminating
his agency as an agent and forfeiting all commissions due and payable
to the respondent for all times to come. The learned Single Judge
partly allowed the petition to the extent that the order of
termination of agency was confirmed and the order with regard to
forfeiture of commissions was quashed and set aside. The
Corporation being aggrieved by the part of the order passed by the
learned Single Judge to the extent of forfeiture of commission, has
preferred the present commission. The
	brief facts relevant for the purpose of deciding this appeal cam be
	summarized as under: provided
	that the agent shall be given a reasonable opportunity to show cause
	against such termination. Every
	order of termination made under sub-regulation (1) shall be in
	writing and communicated to the agent concerned. Where
	the competent authority proposes to take action under Sub-regulation
	(1) it may direct the agent not to solicit or procure new life
	insurance business until he is permitted by the competent authority
	to do so." On
	fair analysis of Regulation 16 it is very clear that the competent
	authority is empowered to determine the appointment of an agent if
	the agent has failed to discharge his functions, as set out in
	regulation 8, to the satisfaction of the competent authority or if
	the agent acts in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the
	Corporation or to the interests of its policyholders. We take note
	of a very important fact that Regulation 16 nowhere refers the word
	'fraud'. Clause (1) of Regulation 19 makes a reference of
	'fraud'. Regulation 19 provides for appointment of
	commission of discontinuance of agency. Any order passed under Regulation 19(1) is not appealable. Regulation No.19(1) reads as
	under:- Provided
	that in respect of an absorbed agent the provisions of clause (a)
	shall apply as if for the letters, figures and word "Rs.2
	lakhs", the letters and figures "Rs.50,000" had
	been substituted. Any
	commission payable to an agent under sub-regulation (1) shall,
	notwithstanding his death, be payable to his nominee or nominees or,
	if no nomination is made or is subsisting, to his heirs, so long as
	such commission would have been payable had the agent been alive. In
	the event of the death of the agent while his agency subsists, any
	commission payable to him had he been alive shall be paid to his
	nominee, or, if no nomination is made or is subsisting, to his
	heirs, so long such commission would have been payable had the agent
	been alive, provided he had continually worked as an agent for not
	less than 2 years from the date of his appointment and policies
	assuring a total sum of not less than Rs. 1 lakh effected through
	him were in full force on the date immediately prior to his death. If
	the renewal commission payable under sub-regulation (1) or
	sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation (3) falls below Rs.100/- in any
	financial year (hereinafter referred to as the said financial year),
	the competent authority may, notwithstanding anything contained in
	the said sub-regulation, commute all commission payable in
	subsequent financial year for a lump sum which shall be three times
	the amount of renewal commission paid in the said financial year,
	and on the payment of such lump sum to the agent or his nominees or
	heirs, as the case may be, no commission on the business effected
	through the agent shall be payable in the financial year subsequent
	to the said financial year." To
our mind, the position is very clear. In the event of the
termination of an agent 'except for fraud' (emphasis supplied)
the Commission on the premium received in respect of the business
secured by the agent shall be paid to the said agent as prescribed
under Regulation 19 . Regulation prescribes that, 'except in case of
fraud' after discontinuance of the agency, the agent is required to
be paid the commission on the premiums received in respect of the
business secured by him in the past. Now,
	we shall deal with an important Regulation i.e. Regulation 15 , which
	refers and talks about fraud. Regulation 15 reads as under:- Regulation
15 talks about termination of agent on account of certain
disqualifications and very importantly we take note of the fact that
in Regulation 15 the word used is 'shall' meaning to say that
if an agent incurs disqualification on account of being found to be
of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction or is found to
be guilty of criminal misappropriation or criminal breach of trust or
cheating or forgery or an abetment of or attempt to commit any such
offence by a court of competent jurisdiction or in any judicial
proceedings, has been found to have knowingly participated in or
connived at any fraud, dishonesty or misrepresentation against the
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or against any person having
official dealings with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries his
appointment as agent stands terminated. On plain reading of the
language of Regulation 15 it is very clear that once the agent is
disqualified in the event of any order passed by the competent court
of law in judicial proceedings and once there is a finding recorded
by the competent court of law in any judicial proceedings as regards
fraud, the appointment stands automatically terminated without notice
and the competent authority is left with no other option, but
forthwith terminate his appointment. There is no discretion because
of the word 'shall'. As against that, Regulation 16 talks
about termination of agent on account of certain lapses. The lapses
have been enumerated in clauses (a) to (f) of Regulation 16 . Again,
the language of Regulation 16 is important. It says that the
competent authority 'may' by order determine the appointment
of an agent. This is suggestive of the fact that in the event of
certain lapses on the part of the agent, the competent authority may
or may not determine appointment of an agent. That means, there is a
discretion with the authority. In a given case the authority may
find lapse of such a nature which may not warrant termination of the
appointment of an agent. Therefore, unlike Regulation 15 where there
is no discretion there appears to be some discretion in Regulation
16 , which talks only about lapses. What
	can be deduced on plain interpretation of Regulations 15, 16 and 19
	is that for coming to the conclusion that the agent has played fraud
	with the Corporation in connivance with any person may be the person
	he has insured there must be a fullfledged trial in the court of a
	competent court. In the trial evidence would be led by both the
	sides and after considering the evidence if in any judicial
	proceeding there is a finding that the agent is guilty of fraud, the
	appointment stands automatically terminated. We do not propose to
	say, that fraud would stand established only if there is criminal
	prosecution and pursuant to that a full-fledged trial resulting in
	findings regarding fraud. It may not be possible or would not be
	feasible at times to initiate criminal prosecution in all cases. In
	such eventuality, it is expected from the Corporation, which is a
	'State' within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution to
	adopt a fair and reasonable procedure. When we say fair and
	reasonable procedure we mean a regular departmental enquiry. In a
	regular departmental enquiry also the person concerned will get an
	opportunity of leading oral evidence as well as documentary evidence
	which includes cross-examination of witnesses, if any. That would
	at least give a reasonable opportunity to the agent to meet with the
	charge of fraud. We are saying this because, the lapses enumerated
	under Regulation 16 nowhere refers in explicit terms 'fraud'
	though it does refer to some lapses on the part of the agent which
	might be equated with incorrect statement made by the agent or false
	information given by the agent. We also take notice of the fact
	that appeal is provided under Regulations 16, 17, 18 and 19, but no
	appeal is provided against order passed under Regulation 19 . It
	would be profitable to quote the wordings of Honourable Supreme
	Court in the matter of Union of India v. M/s Chaturbhai M Patel &
	Co. reported in AIR 1976 SC 712. In paragraph 7 it has been
	held as under:- In
	the present case all throughout when the authorities have proceeded
	under Regulation 16 they have read fraud or rather, we should say
	presumed and assumed fraud only because, according to the
	corporation, the respondent acted in a manner prejudicial to the
	interests of the Corporation. Again, going back to Regulation 16(b) it is very clear that if an agent acts in a manner prejudicial to
	the interests of the Corporation it does not necessarily mean that
	he has played fraud. All acts prejudicial to the interests
	of the Corporation are not necessarily or can be said to be falling
	within the ambit of fraud. When allegations of fraud are levelled
	they cannot be easily presumed and that is why, perhaps, the
	Regulations have referred to the word 'fraud' in Regulation 15 saying that if there is a finding of fraud in any judicial
	proceedings, the appointment shall be liable to be terminated
	without notice. We
	take notice of the fact that if fraud is to be read in all cases
	falling within the ambit of Regulation 16(b) then, it will be a
	dangerous proposition. If the Corporation wants to forfeit the
	commissions due and payable to the agent with regard to policies
	where there is no complaint, they would easily read or would say
	that fraud has been played upon by the agent by acting in a manner
	prejudicial to the interest of the Corporation. There is a scope of
	mischief. The Division Bench of this Court in the matter of State
	v. Prathmesh Farms Private Limited , reported in 2011 (1) GLR 159
	in paragraph 12.1 has observed as under:- [ Pepper v. Hart (1993) 1 All ER 42]." Lapses
	enumerated under Regulation 16 which have been relied upon by the
	authorities of the Corporation all throughout nowhere refers in
	explicit terms 'fraud'. At this stage we would also like to quote
	and rely upon the observations made by the Division Bench of this
	Court in Letters Patent Appeal
	No.257 of 2002 in which one Honourable Judge of the Bench while
	giving supplementary reasons in support of the conclusion has
	observed as under:- 16 emphasize the competent authority of LIC to bring about
termination of agency for certain lapses. The lapses enumerated under Regulation 16 nowhere refers in explicit term "fraud".
Though it does refer to some lapses on the part of the agent which
might be equated with incorrect statement made by an agent or false
information given by the agent. It is required to be noted at this
stage that for bringing about termination of agency on account of
lapses enumerated in Regulation 16 on the part of the agent, then a
reasonable opportunity is required to be given to the agent, much
less to holding appropriate inquiry in an appropriate manner. It is
required to be noted at this stage that, appeal is provided from
order made under Regulations 15,16, 17 and 18, but no appeal is
provided for any order or against any order passed under Regulation 19. Meaning thereby Regulation 19 cannot be construed to clothe the
LIC with any substantive power. It is more of a mechanical objection 
resulting in exercise of the determination of agency brought about
either under Regulation 15 or under 16. Regulation 15 in terms refer
to 'fraud' on the part of the agent. I reiterate at the cost of
repetition that Regulation 15 refers to disqualifications on the part
of the agent and on
agent's suffering from any one of those disqualifications;
namely from Regulation 15 (a) , (b) and (c). The termination of agency
cannot be qualified to be termination on account of invocation of Regulation 15 ." In
paragraph 3 of the said judgment it is further observed as under:- We
	are of the view that the Corporation having invoked Regulation 16 all throughout would not be justified in forfeiting the right of the
	respondent in receiving the commission as it is admissible under Regulation 19(b) and (c) as applicable to this case. The
	judgment which has been relied upon by the learned counsel for the
	appellant-corporation rendered in Letters Patent Appeal No.257
	of 2002 is in two parts. Both the Honourable Judges of the Division
	Bench have expressed their opinion on the subject but the final
	conclusion remains the same. The Division Bench thought
	it fit to remit the matter to the concerned authority of the
	Corporation for the purpose of reconsideration of the matter afresh
	on the aspect of proportionality of the punishment. We are of the
	view that the principle of proportionality of the punishment would
	not be applicable in such type of cases when an agency is terminated
	and the commissions payable to the agent are ordered to
	be forfeited. Determining the agency and forfeiting the commissions
	is not by way of punishment. It is on the strength of terms of
	contract entered into between the Corporation and the agent. In
	this view of the matter, we are not inclined to accept the
	submissions of the learned counsel of the Corporation that we may
	also remit the matter to the concerned authority for fresh
	consideration so far as forfeiture of commissions of all policies is
	concerned. Learned
	counsel for the Corporation has also relied upon a judgment of
	Division Bench of this Court in Letters Patent Appeal No.213 of
	2007. In that case, the Division Bench of this Court took the view
	that the conduct of the agent in collecting the cheque from a policy
	holder for revival of his policy and utilising those cheques for
	fresh proposals on the lives of others clearly amounts to fraud and
	by such fraudulent act the agent obtained unlawful gain. The Court
	further observed that the conduct of agent would amount to
	misappropriation of amount which falls within the expression o f
	'fraud'. In that case, the Court having regard to the peculiar
	facts came to the conclusion that it would amount to fraud, but as
	we have discussed in our judgment fraud cannot be presumed and that
	every lapse on the part of the agent or any act of the agent
	prejudicial to the interests of the Corporation need not necessarily
	be a fraud. The
Division Bench while deciding Letters Patent Appeal No.263 of 2007
has not considered the entire issue keeping in mind Regulation 15 of
the Regulations, 1972. The Division Bench proceeded on the footing
that since it is a case of misappropriation of amount the Corporation
would be justified in terminating the agency as well as all
commissions. It appears that the matter was not examined from the
point of view as regards omission of the word 'fraud' in Regulation 16 and as to whether all acts prejudicial to the interest
of the Corporation can be termed as acts of 'fraud'. We are in
agreement with the ratio propounded by the Division Bench of this
Court in Letters Patent Appeal No.257 of 2002 except to the extent of
remitting the matter to the authorities of the Corporation for
reconsidering the issue on the principle of proportionality of
punishment. Again,
	at the cost of repetition, we would like to mention that in the
	present case the allegations against the agent are to the effect
	that she knew that late Ashokkumar R Parmar was suffering from
	pulmonary tuberculosis and in spite of this knowledge, as an agent,
	she recommended the Corporation for the policy. We take notice of
	the fact that without any proper departmental enquiry or detailed
	investigation in this regard, the Corporation could not have jumped
	to the conclusion that the agent is guilty of fraud by suppressing
	the fact that the insured was suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis.
	 We take notice of the fact having perused all the three orders
	passed by the Corporation i.e. first order of the Divisional
	Manager, second order passed by the appellate authority and the
	third order in the form of Memorial by the Chairman of the
	Corporation that all the three authorities have based their
	conclusions solely taking into consideration the reply filed by the
	respondent to the show-cause notice. There was no other enquiry of
	any nature worth the name at the end of the appellant-Corporation.
	It can be a case of carelessness or negligence. However, though we
	are not supposed to go into the questions of facts, but in the
	present case, having regard to the peculiar circumstances, we are
	constrained to observe that there is not an iota of material on
	record to suggest that there was any meeting of minds or any
	conspiracy hatched for the purpose of defrauding the Corporation. For
	the reasons recorded above, we are of the view that the appellant -
	Corporation could not have forfeited the amount of renewal
	commissions. To that extent, the judgment and order passed by the
	learned Single Judge is just, proper and justified. We do not see
	any reason to interfere with the order passed by the learned Single
	Judge. In the result, the appeal fails and the same is hereby
	dismissed. No costs. (S.J.
Mukhopadhaya, CJ.)
 

 

 

							(J.B.Pardiwala,
J.)
 

*mohd Top