The government should allow telecom companies to provide a mobile number validation (MNV) service through mutual agreements to prevent the misuse of telecom resources for cyber fraud, Reliance Jio says in its comments on the draft National Telecom Policy, 2025 . MediaNama gained access to these comments through an RTI request it had filed with the Department of Telecommunications (DoT).

The government had introduced the MNV service under its draft amendment to the Telecom Cybersecurity Rules, 2024. This amendment proposes that companies that use telecom identifiers to validate customers and deliver their services can either of their own volition, or based on government direction, use the MNV service to validate their users.

The rules specify a fee for this service as well, splitting it between the government and the telecom service providers whose database the MNV platform will rely on for customer validation. To explain, the service costs between Rs 1.5 and Rs 3.

Jio’s recommendation appears to suggest that telecom companies should have more autonomy in running the service instead of government involvement. And it seems to want to offer the service directly through commercial agreements.

[ Note: The government sent across submissions from Jio, Vodafone Idea (Vi), and Tata Communications. We did not receive Airtel and BSNL’s submissions on the policy.]

Vi argues that the government should foster global leadership in combating cross-border spam, fraud, and phishing. It should also put in place adequate and effective cross-sectoral regulatory frameworks for detecting and preventing spam. The company emphasises that the government could leverage India’s presence in the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) to address issues like calling line identification (CLI) spoofing.

Meanwhile, Jio wants the responsibility for curbing spam to be adequately distributed across all players in the ecosystem. It urges the government to create a framework for controlling spam at source, duly recognising telcos’ role as intermediaries.

In what comes as yet another repetition of the demand for over-the-top (OTT) communication service regulation, both Vi and Jio have made demands for spam responsibilities on OTT players. Jio argues for equitable regulatory costs for similar services. As part of the strategic objectives for the policy, Jio suggests that by 2030, the government should “develop a policy framework for over-the-top communication services towards fiscal contributions and security conditions establishing ‘same service same rules’ regime”.

It also wants graded and proportional responsibilities for all digital platforms (including OTTs) to tackle spam and fraud.

The government should create a unique telecom ID, Vi suggested, as part of the ease of doing business-related goals for 2030 under the policy.

Interestingly, in the draft telecom user identification rules that the government released earlier this month , the DoT did in fact introduce a new biometric identity verification system (BIVS). This system will provide biometric-based identification of users using live photographs or any other biological attributes that the government specifies.

Whenever a user enrols in a telecom service or updates the services they have subscribed to, they will be assigned a unique user ID, which appears to meet Vi’s demand for a unique telecom ID.

Vi urged the government to support telecom operators through an enabling framework to act as consent managers under the Digital Personal Data Protection Act (DPDP Act, 2023). In its comments, the company has also flagged that the act and its draft rules can impact OTT platforms, leading to higher operational costs, and could force platforms to adapt monetisation strategies.

It urges the government to factor in the DPDP Act, as well as other regulations like the proposed Digital India Act and DoT’s draft amendment to the telecom cybersecurity rules’ interaction with the National Telecom Policy and their impact on OTTs.

Meanwhile, Tata Communications suggests that one of the goals of the policy should be to recommend a clear harmonised policy for data localisation, cross-border data flows, and enterprise security. Essentially, the policy should balance regulatory requirements with operational flexibility.

The national telecom policy should set the goal of enabling fixed-line broadband networks, including fixed wireless access (FWA) networks, to 100 million households by 2030, Jio says. It argues that the government can do so by removing the license fee for fixed line service (including FWA) and initiating subsidy schemes in rural and remote areas.

The government should promote network slicing, edge computing, Internet of Things (IoT) expansion, and deployment of private networks by licensed access service providers, Jio argues.

Vi, on the other hand, suggests challenges with promoting satcom integration. It mentions that reliable data transmission and spectrum management remain significant technical challenges in satcom, especially with the proliferation of low-Earth orbit (LEO) satellites. It also adds that integrating terrestrial and non-terrestrial networks can be complex.

To support satcom, Vi suggests that the government should harmonise and rationalise spectrum pricing mechanisms for satellite-based services, while ensuring a level playing field for terrestrial telcos. It also advocates for reserving orbital slots for licensed satcom entities.

Tata Communications wants a dedicated regulatory framework for enterprise service providers. It argues for allocation of numbering resources for enterprises similar to Internet Protocol (IP) allocations and even demands a separate captive non-public network (CNPN) authorisation to serve enterprises.

The company also urged the government to devise a separate spectrum allocation mechanism and terms of use for business-to-business (B2B) service providers. Of these, the government has already released draft rules for CNPN authorisation .

All three companies urged the government to ensure that there is a need for more standardised and centralised reporting requirements, albeit with regard to different service segments. Vi wants a standardised reporting format for KYC reporting and a central authority to issue these reporting requirements instead of multiple DoT units. It further argues that law enforcement agencies should directly link with the DoT’s digital intelligence units (DIUs) for subscriber queries. Jio and Tata Communications, on the other hand, want a single point for compliance reporting.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event