: 2. The CPIO furnished a reply to the Appellant on 20-06-2025 stating as
under: 3. Being dissatisfied, the Appellant filed a First Appeal dated 23-06-2025.
The FAA vide its order dated 08-07-2025, upheld the reply given by the CPIO. 4. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, Appellant approached the Commission
with the instant Second Appeal. Relevant Facts emerged during Hearing: 5. The Appellant stated that he had purchased a laptop from Amazon.
However, a vacuum storage bag got delivered instead of the laptop. The
appellant submitted that he had raised a complaint in the respondent's website
regarding the irregularity. The appellant also submitted that the Amazon
company had denied the irregularity in the respondent's website, but accepted
the same vide e-mail addressed to him and a case is pending in the consumer CIC/MCAFP/A/2025/631325 Page 3 of 6 court in this regard. The appellant further submitted that he sought information
as to whether the videos, documents and legal notice sent by him were reviewed
by the respondent before closing his complaint, and whether the complaint can
be reopened etc. The appellant alleged that the respondent had provided a
generalized reply instead of providing a point-wise reply. 6. The Respondent submitted that their website is a forum for pre-litigation
between the consumer and the companies. The respondent submitted that the
remarks offered by the Amazon company get reflected in their website and the
same is accessible to the appellant. The respondent submitted that in their
response on the said portal, the company had denied irregularity regarding
product mismatch, and hence the complaint was disposed of at their website by
reproducing the remarks given by Amazon. 7. The Commission queried the respondent as to whether they had
proposed for any action against the said company, as sought by the appellant in
point no.5. To this, the respondent submitted that no action was proposed. The
Commission queried the respondent regarding complaint reopening procedure.
To this, the respondent submitted that the appellant can file a fresh complaint
on the same portal, by uploading the alleged e-mail received by the appellant
from Amazon. 8. Written submission dated 28.02.2026 filed by the appellant is taken on
record. 9. Written submission dated 10.03.2026 filed by the respondent is taken on
record. Decision: 10. The Commission, after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the
case, hearing both the parties and perusal of the records, observes that the
respondent did not give a point-wise reply to the appellant. In view of the above,
the respondent is directed to give a revised point-wise reply to the appellant,
incorporating the available factual information as submitted during the hearing.
The respondent shall provide the aforesaid revised reply to the appellant, within
15 days from the date of receipt of this order under intimation to the
Commission - both through post and via uploading on
http://dsscic.nic.in/online-link-paper-compliance/add. Accordingly, the appeal
is disposed of. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. (Khushwant Singh Sethi) (खुशवन्त स िंह ेठी)
 Information Commissioner ( ूचना आयुक्त)
 निनां क/Date: 11.03.2026

Authenticated true copy

S. K. Chitkara (एस. के. नचटकारा)
Dy. Registrar (उप-पंजीयक)
011-26107026 CIC/MCAFP/A/2025/631325 Page 5 of 6 Copy To: