The petitioner is before this Court calling in question

proceedings in Crime No.1 of 2021 registered against the

petitioner for offences punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 464 , 472 and Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. 2. Adumbrated in brief, the factual background as

projected by the petitioner is as follows: 3. The International Sales Contract provided for arbitration

as a dispute resolution mechanism between Nikat Capital and

the 3rd respondent. Accordingly, arbitration proceedings were

invoked in terms of the arbitration clause. Due to impending

transfer of funds, a petition was filed before this Court invoking Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act in

AP(IM)100001 of 2020 alleging that the company/Nikat Capital

had played fraud with the 3rd respondent and sought a restraint

order at the hands of this Court directing the State Bank of

India not to transfer the sum of 7,70,770 US dollars which was

the consideration in the transaction. This Court by order dated

27-11-2020 accepted the case in the petition and passed an

interim order of restraint restraining State Bank of India from

transferring the amount. It appears, by the time the interim

order was passed, the amount had already been transferred to

Nikat Capital by the State Bank of India. 4. After the aforesaid proceedings a complaint is registered

before the jurisdictional Police by the 2nd respondent against the 5 petitioner and Nikat Capital. Pursuant to the said complaint an

FIR is registered arraigning the petitioner as accused No.1 and

Nikat Capital as accused No.2 for offences punishable under

Sections 420, 467, 468, 464, 472 r/w Section 34 of the IPC. The

moment the crime gets registered against the petitioner, the

petitioner has knocked the doors of this Court, in the subject

writ petition. 5. Heard learned senior counsel Sri C.V.Nagesh

representing the petitioner, learned High Court Government

Pleader representing respondent No.1 and learned senior

counsel Sri Udaya Holla representing the respondents 2 and 3. Submissions of the petitioner: 6. The learned senior counsel Sri C.V.Nagesh would

vehemently argue and contend that the crime registered against

the petitioner is, on the face of it, an abuse of the process of law; he would take this Court through the complaint registered

maligning the name of the petitioner and laying the entire blame 6 for the transaction on the petitioner, notwithstanding the fact

that the petitioner is nowhere in the picture. The petitioner is

not a party to the contract entered into between Nikat Capital

and the 2nd or the 3rd respondents; the petitioner is not a

recipient of any commission/consideration whatsoever in the

transaction between the parties; if the transaction between the

parties has gone wrong the petitioner cannot be hauled into, by

registration of a criminal case against him for the aforesaid

offences, as he is completely innocent; it is his submission that

no doubt, he has introduced Nikat Capital to the 3rd respondent

and at best he can be termed as an intermediary between the

two; having received no consideration and not being a party to

any of the transactions or agreements between Nikat Capital and

the 2nd and 3rd respondents, the petitioner cannot be dragged

into criminal proceedings. 6.1. He would place reliance upon judgments in the cases

of ALL CARGO MOVERS (INDIA) PVT. LTD AND OTHERS v. DHANESH BADRAMAL JAIN AND ANOTHER - (2007) 14 SCC 7 776; RUKMINI NARVEKAR v. VIJAYA SATARDEKAR AND

OTHERS - AIR 2009 SC 1013; MEDMEME, LLC AND OTHERS

v. IHORSE BPO SOLUTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED - (2018) 13

SCC 374 and the latest judgments in the cases of A.P.MAHESH

CO-OP. URBAN BANK SHAREHOLDERS WELFARE ASSN. V.

RAMESH KUMAR BUNG reported in ( 2021) 9 SCC 152, STATE

OF ORISSA V. DEBENDRA NATH PADHI reported in ( 2005)1

SCC 568 and NITYA DHARMANANDA V. GOPAL SHEELUM

REDDY reported in (2018)2 SCC 93 in support of his

contentions. Submissions of the private respondents: 7. The learned senior counsel Sri Udaya Holla representing

the respondents would vehemently refute the submissions and

contend that the petitioner is the face of Nikat Capital. The

complainant company had never even seen Nikat Capital. The

entire transaction was at the behest of the petitioner; plethora of

mails were corresponded between the petitioner, Nikat Capital

and the complainant company; the petitioner and Nikat Capital 8 have conspired together to defraud the complainant company

and as such, the allegation of cheating or criminal breach of

trust and forgery is made out in the case at hand. The matter is

only at the stage of investigation and at the stage of investigation

this Court should not interfere and if at all the petitioner is

clean, that has to be determined in a full-fledged trial. 7.1. He would place reliance on the judgments of the Apex

Court in the cases of KAMAL SHIVAJI POKARNEKAR v. STATE

OF MAHARASHTRA & OTHERS - (2019)14 SCC 350; YOGESH

AGARWAL & OTHERS v. STATE OF KARNATAKA - (2020)

SCC OnLine KAR 1857 and SABRE TRAVEL TECHNOLOGIES

PRIVATE LIMITED v. STATE OF KARNATAKA - (2021) SCC

OnLine KAR 2611. By placing reliance on the aforesaid

judgments the learned senior counsel Sri Udaya Holla would

contend that this Court in the case of YOGESH AGARWAL and

SABRE TRAVEL TECHNOLOGIES has declined to accept the

very contentions advanced by the very same learned senior 9 counsel for the petitioner and it would not lie with the said

learned senior counsel to again reiterate those very submissions. The learned senior counsel would further take this Court

through the additional documents that are filed which are

electronic-mail correspondences between the petitioner, Nikat

Capital and the complainant company, to buttress his

contention that the petitioner was the face of the entire

transaction. Reply of the petitioner: 8. The learned senior counsel for petitioner Sri C.V.Nagesh

would contend insofar as it pertains to the judgment of YOGESH

AGARWAL, taking this Court through a subsequent judgment

passed by the very same Judge who had rendered YOGESH

AGARWAL in Criminal Petition No.824/2019 disposed on

03.02.2020 wherein the criminal petition is allowed on the very

same grounds relying on subsequent judgments of the Apex

Court. He would also place reliance upon additional documents

that are filed which are e-mail correspondences between the 10 parties, which according to the learned senior counsel would

clear the cloud that has masked the petitioner. It is his

submission that truncated mails are produced by the

respondents and to set the record straight he has placed on

record entire e-mail correspondences between the parties. 9. I have given my anxious consideration to the

submissions made by the respective learned senior counsel and

have perused the material on record. In furtherance whereof, the

issue that falls for my consideration is,

 'Whether the petitioner being an intermediary or a

facilitator for the transaction between the complainant- company and Nikat Capital can be hauled into by setting

the criminal law in motion owing to the peculiar facts of

the case at hand?'

Consideration: 10. It is not in dispute that the role of the petitioner is an

intermediary or facilitator between Nikat Capital and the

complainant-company. Before noticing the complaint that is 11 registered between the parties, it is germane to notice certain

electronic-mail correspondences between the three protagonists

in the entire episode of the subject transaction. The torrent and

trail are as follows: 10% advance for 1000 MT of Scrap (i.e.USD 24500, which
will be adjusted in the last shipment) shall be released
against a Sale Purchase Agreement (between BMMIL and
abroad supplier) covered under International Chamber of
Commerce (ICC), instead of a Bank Guarantee. Further, for the balance payment, as per our Bankers,
instead of revolving L/C we may establish 2/3 irrevocable
sight L/Cs covering total Qty of 5000 MT and we will
confirm about the value of each L/C on September 7th 2020. In the mean time we request you to book our order, provide
the draft agreement along with Company name, address,
beneficiary name, account No and swift code per return mail
for speedy action. Pls do further proceedings on the base of this LOI. Our formal order follows. Best regards,
M.P.Singh. Pls also find copy of draft LC and give your
comments/acceptance. Pls revert per rtn mail

Best regards,

M.P.Singh
Addl GM Purchase
BMM Ispat Ltd
114, Danapura Village
Taluk Hospet
Dist Bellary
Karnataka
Mob-9686552487." Further trail reads as follows: From: Nusrat Khan <nusrat [email protected] > 27 Subject:Re: Supplier Registration Form - reg
Date : 15 February 2020 at 5:45PM
To : Mahendra Pratap Singh [email protected] Cc : Govvindraja Kpur [email protected] ; Anil
Kumar S [email protected] , Panna Lal Sethia [email protected] Dear Sir,

Please find enclosed vendor registration form duly filled
signed and stamped, along with FCO.,

Thanks and Best regards,

M.Nusrat Ali Khan
Managing Director
+971 566504069
Carter Brown Global General Trading LLC
P.O.Box:5586
4001-10, 40th Floor, Savvy Zone,
Citadel Tower, Al-Abraj Street, Business Bay,
Dubai: United Arab Emirates
www.cbggt.com

on Sat, Feb 2020 a 07:45, Govvindraja kpur < [email protected] > wrote: Pls help us un this regard. Best regards
M P Singh

[05/11/20, 2:53:21 PM] Michael Scrap: hello, This is Philip
(Shipping Team), Please note that the Vessel had been
loaded with 173 Containers 40" on 27 October. Inspection
company did a very good job to spend time during loading
of each container and took pictures on each stage. We
prepared and sent all documents to the bank as of Letter of
Credit. In the documents we could not show more than
3000 MT as the LC did not allow us to show the real extra
weight on each container. LC only allowed us to have %5
tolerance on the invoice value. Therefore Invoice calculated
on that base sent to the bank already and they will be
forwarded to the customer in few days time. The final
Vessel (TOKYO BAY) will arrive to port of Chennai by 24
November. Please let the customer know that according to
the LC terms, they should only receive the documents from
their own bank in India few days after the advising bank
in the UK considers them and forward them to India by
DHL. All the best." They are available on Whatsapp but not on the
regular line. Either they don't connect or the
message goes to voice mail. 2. Today our person will visit their office. 3. Most important factor is, we contacted SGS with
the certificate Fintiv sent it to you. We have the
official mail fro them that the certificate is fake. I
am attaching the mail herewith. 4. We had a call with our LC expert, Mr.Mandan and
Mr.Yaseen in the morning. Further to the call, the
documents received from Mr.Yaseen has been sent to
Mr.Madan. Upon the preliminary verification his
message is "My suggesting is to give a letter
IMMDIATELY to SBI (referring to the LC No. & Docs
Received) stating that we verified that the SGS
Report and verified it is not genuine attaching the
proofs also request them not to make payment." In view of these points, we request you to talk to your
Bank and request for stop payment at the earliest. We are on standby for the call along with our LC
expert." (Emphasis added) 32 The electronic mail correspondences between the parties would

indicate the role of the petitioner being limited to that of a

facilitator being in the loop of electronic-mail. The result of e- mail correspondences between the parties was registration of an

International Sales Contract on 16.09.2020. The salient features

of the sales contract is germane to be noticed in the case at

hand, particularly at this juncture. Clause 16 of the said

contract deals with arbitration clause. Clause 16 reads as

follows: The other relevant clause is clause 18 which deals with other

terms. It reads as follows: In terms of arbitration clause available as a dispute resolution

mechanism between Nikat Capital and the complainant- company, it appears that the arbitration exercise has been

initiated. Apprehending transfer of money held in the account of

State Bank of India, the complainant-company files a petition

invoking Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

before this Court. It is imperative to notice the averments made

in the arbitration petition that was filed before this Court. The

relevant paragraphs that are germane for the purpose of present

lis are extracted hereunder for the purpose of quick reference: 3. xxxx 4. xxxx 5. The Respondent No.2 is an integral part of the
 transaction between the Petitioner and the
 Respondent No.1. The Letter of Credit being
 ancillary to the Contract will form a part of the
 same transaction. The Contract being the
 principal agreement, the Respondent No.2 will be
 bound by the Arbitration clause contained
 therein. Furthermore, the Respondent No.2 has
 issued the Letter of Credit at the instructions of
 the Petitioner and is the agent of the Petitioner. 6. xxx 7. The Respondent No.1 claimed to have submitted
 the required original documents to the Negotiating
 Bank. The said documents were presented by
 the negotiating bank to the Respondent No.2 on
 17.11.2020 and the very same day, the
 Respondent No.2 issued an advise of import bills
 received letter with respect to the Letter of Credit,
 enclosing the documents presented by the
 Negotiating Bank. However, on the verification of
 the documents, the Petitioner found various
 discrepancies in the said documents. Copy of the
 advice of import bills is produced as per
 Annexure-D. 8. xxx 9. On becoming suspicious of the conduct of the
 Respondent No.1, the Petitioner further
 verified the genuineness of the Bill of Lading
 from the carrier, M/s Yang Ming Marine 37 Transport Corpn. ("the Carrier") who was
 engaged to ship the scrap metal to the
 Petitioner's required destination at Chennai
 through the vessel 'YM Wisdom'. The Carrier
 confirmed vide email dated 24.11.2020 that
 the said Bill of Lading was not a part of the
 present voyage and the container numbers
 do not match with their records. The
 Carrier further stated that the Bill of Lading
 pertains to shipments that were not
 consigned to Chennai Sea Port. A copy of
 the email communication dated 24.11.2020
 from the Carrier is produced as per
 Annexure - H. 10. The petitioner tracked the containers as listed in
 the Bill of Lading, on the website of the Carrier
 and found that the Port of Loading and Port of
 Discharge with respect to the said containers was
 not at all UK or Chennai Sea Port respectively. In
 fact, the tracking details revealed that he port of
 discharge of the shipment that the Respondent
 No.1 claimed to have sent were in China and
 Vietname and not Chennai Sea Port as per the
 Contract. That is to say, the Respondent No.1
 never intended to ship the scrap metal to India as
 per the contract and the consignment is thus
 never reaching India to the Petitioner. Some of
 the tracking screen shots are produced as
 Annexure - J. 11. xxxx 12. As per the terms of the Contract, the Respondent
 No.1 was required to obtain a Pre-shipment
 inspection test certificate (PSIC) for quantity and
 quality obtained from inspection agency approved by
 DGFT, Government of India. The Respondent No.1,
 claiming to have obtained the PSIC, had submitted
 the same issued by SGS United Kingdom Limited 38 before the Negotiating Bank. Due to the
 discrepancies in the documents, the Petitioner also
 verified the Pre-shipment Inspection Certificate with
 SGS United Kingdom Limited and found that the
 Certificate was not original and was in fact forged.
 A Copy of the mail dated 24.11.2020 from SGS is
 produced as per Annexure - M and the Information
 Request Form, evidencing that the PSIC was
 fraudulently created by the Respondent No.1 is
 produced as per Annexure N. 13. xxx 14. As per the Contract and as per the terms of
 Letter of Credit, the details of the shipment
 (viz., quantity, quality, container details,
 shipment details, vessel name, itinerary etc)
 was to be provided to the Petitioner on the
 agreed email ID being ' [email protected] '. It is
 submitted that the Petitioner has not received
 any such communication from the Respondent
 No.1 and it is seen that the Respondent No.1
 claims to have issued such an email to the
 Petitioner and it is submitted that the
 Respondent No.1 has fabricated the purported
 email issued by it to the email id [email protected] . 15. xxx 16. xxx 17. xxxx 18. The fact that the Respondent No.1 never
 intended to ship the consignment to India to
 the Petitioner makes it amply clear that the
 Respondent No.1 intended to defraud the
 Petitioner since the beginning of the Contract
 and the Respondent No.1 was acting in 39 furtherance of such an intention all along. The
 shipment tracking details evidence that the
 shipment were never sent to Chennai Sea Port a
 per the Contract. The Respondent No.1 never
 intended to export the scrap metal to the
 Petitioner and the Respondent No.1 played
 fraud on the Petitioner and induced the
 Petitioner into entering into Contract with it
 and fraudulently induced the Petitioner into
 opening the Letter of Credit in favour of the
 Respondent No.1 through Respondent No.2. 19. xxx 20. xxx 21. xxx 22. xxx 23. The Contract and the Letter of Credit were
 induced on the basis of active
 misrepresentations made by the Respondent
 No.1 that it intended to supply scrap metal,
 whereas the intention of the Respondent No.1
 from the very beginning was to not to do so and
 was to defraud the Petitioner. The Respondent
 No.1 was aware of its fraudulent intentions of
 not supplying the scrap metal from the
 beginning of the transaction. Therefore, it is
 submitted that the Contract and the Letter of
 Credit are an object of fraud and would be void
 ab-initio. However, the Arbitration Clause
 under the Contract would still survive in light
 of the decision of the hon'ble Supreme Court in
 Avital Post Studioz Limited V.HSBC P1 Holdings
 (Mauritius) Limited [2020 SCC Online SC 656].
 Hence this Hon'ble Court has the jurisdiction to
 pass an order under Section 9 of the 40 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 . Hence
 this Petition. 24. xxx 25. The dispute between the Petitioner and the
 Respondents is within the scope of the
 Arbitration clause as extracted in the
 paragraphs above. The petitioner intends to
 initiate arbitration under the Contract. An
 arbitral tribunal has not yet been constituted
 and grave prejudice would be caused to the
 Petitioner if it were to wait for the arbitral
 tribunal to be constituted, given that the
 Respondent No.2 has already indicated its
 intention to remit the Invoice Amount to the
 Respondent No.1." (Emphasis added)

The entire proceedings, as afore-extracted if noticed, it becomes

unmistakably clear that the contract was between the

complainant-company and Nikat Capital and the petitioner was

nowhere in the picture and rightly so, the pleading did not

contain even the name of the petitioner. This Court granted an

interim order on 27-11-2020 reading: It appears that by the time the interim order was granted the

amount that the complainant-company had sought restraint had

already been transferred. At that juncture, the complainant- company registers a complaint before the jurisdictional police. In

the teeth of the aforesaid averments in the arbitration petition,

the contents of the complaint are now germane to be noticed and

are accordingly extracted hereunder for the purpose of quick

reference: (Emphasis added)

It is for the first time in the complaint registered seeking to set

the criminal law in motion the name of the petitioner is brought

out. Till registration of the complaint on 07-01-2021, the

petitioner was nowhere in the picture in any of the proceedings. The contents of the complaint (supra) would clearly indicate,

with particular reference to paragraph 12, the role of the

petitioner is that of an intermediary and the complainant wants

to take the complaint or the transaction to its logical end. These

two are the primary reasons for registering a complaint against

the petitioner. The offences alleged for registration of an FIR in

terms of the said complaint is as afore-extracted. Cheating and

Forgery are the primary sections that are invoked in the case

against the petitioner. Therefore, can an intermediary be dragged

into the criminal proceedings, notwithstanding the fact that he 49 had no role to play in the transaction or contract entered into

between two parties whom he had introduced, the answer is an

unequivocal and an emphatic "no" for the reasons recorded

hereafter. 11. It cannot be alleged by the complainant-company, that

it is the petitioner who had induced the complainant for entering

into a contract with the company at United Kingdom. It was a

conscious call, with eyes wide open, taken by the complainant- company for entering into an international sales contract. For

the contract having gone wrong between the complainant- company and Nikat Capital, the petitioner cannot be held

responsible. 12. It would have been altogether different circumstance if

the allegation was that of conspiracy. If the petitioner had

conspired with Nikat Capital against the alleged victim and had

induced the alleged victim to enter into a contract, perhaps the

allegation would at least be prima facie sustainable. As a matter

of fact, the petitioner in one of the mails has clearly indicated to 50 the complainant-company that Nikat Capital is not receiving his

calls and, therefore, requested to not release any amount that is

due to it. Despite this warning, the amount is released. If the

petitioner was the face of everything, there could not have been a

mail correspondence of warning in favour of the complainant- company. Dragging an intermediary or a facilitator into these

proceedings is unavailable to the complainant-company. 13. It is now germane in the journey of the order to notice

authorities relied on by the respective learned counsel. In my

considered view, the armory in the arsenal of the learned senior

counsel for the petitioner would sound acceptance for the reason

that the facts and the law that is laid down by the Apex Court or

this Court are identical to the present transaction. The Apex

Court in the case of ALL CARGO MOVERS (INDIA) PVT. LTD1 (supra) has held as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court in its latest judgment in the case of MEDMEME

LLC V. IHORSE BPO SOLUTIONS2 (supra) has held as follows: 10. The High Court was of the view that the
allegations contained in the complaint filed by the
respondent, particularly in para 7 thereto, satisfy the
ingredients of the offences for which the appellants are
implicated. But the High Court further observed that
merely because arbitration proceedings were pending
between the parties, it would not preclude the
respondent from launching criminal prosecution when
prima facie criminal case was also made out against
the appellants. In the three questions formulated, the
High Court took the view that the Magistrate had
conducted a proper inquiry under Section 202 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure before proceeding against
the appellants. 11. The moot question before us revolves
around Question 1 which was formulated by the
High Court and it is to be seen as to whether
dispute between the parties is essentially of a civil
nature or any case is made out against the
appellants for launching criminal prosecution
under the aforesaid sections. 12. After going through the allegations
contained in the complaint and the material on
record, we are of firm conclusion that the matter
entirely pertains to civil jurisdiction and not even
a prima facie case is made out for the offences
under Sections 420, 406 and 409 read with Section 120-B IPC even if the allegations
contained in the complaint are to be taken on
their face value. The complaint gives a clear
impression that it was primarily a case where the
respondent had alleged breach of contract on the
part of the appellants in not making the entire
payments for the services rendered to the
appellants. On the other hand, it is not in dispute
that substantial amounts have been paid by the
appellants to the respondent company for the
services rendered. 13. Reason for non-payment of the balance
amount as given by the appellants is that the
services rendered by the respondent company were
not in terms of the agreement entered into
between the parties and were deficient in nature.
For this reason, even the appellants have filed
claims against the respondent company alleging
that the appellant suffered losses because of the
defective services provided by the respondent. 14. On the basis of it, we find that it cannot
be said that at the time of entering into the
agreement, either the first agreement or even the
second agreement, there was any intention on the
part of the appellants to cheat the respondent. No
suspicion of any nature was shown or even
alleged. It is also not the allegation of the
respondent in the complaint that the agreement
was entered into with fraudulent or dishonest
intention on the part of the appellants in inducing
the respondent to enter into such a contract. At
best, the dispute between the parties is of a civil 54 nature, proceedings in respect of which are
 pending before the learned arbitrator. 15. We, thus, allow this appeal, set aside the
 judgment [ MedMeme LLC v. iHorse BPO Solutions (P)
 Ltd. , 2014 SCC OnLine Mad 12832 : (2015) 2 MWN (Cri)
 97] of the High Court and thereby allow the petition filed
 by the appellants in the High Court under Section 482 of Code of Criminal Procedure. The result whereof
 would be quashing of the proceedings arising out of
 Complaint No. 142 of 2012 pending in the Court of
 Judicial Magistrate-II, Puducherry." (Emphasis supplied) 14. The judgments relied on by the learned senior counsel

Sri Uday Holla in the case of KAMAL SHIVAJI POKARNEKAR or

YOGESH AGARWAL or SABRE TRAVEL TECHNOLOGIES

PRIVATE LIMITED (supra) were rendered in the facts of those

cases. The Apex Court in the case of KAMAL SHIVAJI

POKARNEKAR3 has held as follows: Criminal complaints cannot be quashed only on the
 ground that the allegations made therein appear to be
 of a civil nature. If the ingredients of the offence alleged
 against the accused are prima facie made out in the
 complaint, the criminal proceeding shall not be
 interdicted." (Emphasis supplied)

This Court in the case of YOGESH AGARWAL4 has held as

follows: 20. It is his further submission that after perusal of the
prima facie material if the offence is going to be constituted,
the correctness or otherwise has to be decided only during the
course of trial and not at this premature stage. In that light, he
relied upon the decision in the case of Kamal Shivaji 57 Pokarnekar v. State of Maharashtra , (cited supra), wherein at
paragraph-9 it has been observed as under:-- 21. It is the submission of the learned HCGP that if
there is concurrent civil and criminal liability, it is not a bar to
the criminal proceedings and the Court can proceed with the
said aspect. In that light, he relied upon the decision in the
case of Arun Bhandari v. State of U.P. (cited supra), wherein
at paragraphs-25 to 35 it has been observed as under:-- 27. In this context we may also usefully refer
to a paragraph from All Cargo Movers (India) (P) Ltd.
v. Dhanesh Badarmal Jain [(2007) 14 SCC 776 : 781-82, para 16)

 "16, ... Where a civil suit is pending and
 the complaint petition has been filed one year
 after filing of the civil suit, we may for the
 purpose of finding out as to whether the said
 allegations are prima facie correct, take into
 consideration the correspondences exchanged
 by the parties and other admitted documents.
 It is one thing to say that the court at this
 juncture would not consider the defence of the
 accused but it is another thing to say that for
 exercising the inherent jurisdiction of this
 Court, it is impermissible also to look to the
 admitted documents. Criminal proceedings 60 should not be encouraged, when it is found to
 be mala fide or otherwise an abuse of the
 process of the court. Superior courts while
 exercising this power should also strive to
 serve the ends of justice." 28. In Rajesh Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi )
[(1999) 3 SCC 259 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 401 : AIR 1999
SC 1216], while dealing with a case where the High
Court had quashed an FIR, this Court opined that
the facts narrated in the complaint petition may
reveal a commercial transaction or a money
transaction, but that is hardly a reason for holding
that the offence of cheating would elude from such a
transaction. Proceeding further, the Bench observed
thus : (SCC p. 263, para 11)

 "11. The crux of the postulate is the
 intention of the person who induces the victim
 of his representation and not the nature of the
 transaction which would become decisive in
 discerning whether there was commission of
 offence or not. The complainant has stated in
 the body of the complaint that he was induced
 to believe that the respondent would honour
 payment on receipt of invoices, and that the
 complainant realised later that the intentions
 of the respondent were not clear. He also
 mentioned that the respondent after receiving
 the goods had sold them to others and still he
 did not pay the money. Such averments would
 prima facie make out a case for investigation
 by the authorities." 29. We have referred to the aforesaid
decisions in the field to highlight about the role of the
court while dealing with such issues. In our
considered opinion the present case falls in the
category which cannot be stated at this stage to be
purely civil in nature on the basis of the admitted 61 documents or the allegations made in the FIR or
what has come out in the investigation or for that
matter what has been stated in the protest petition.
We are disposed to think that prima facie there is an
allegation that there was a guilty intention to induce
the complainant to part with money. We may hasten
to clarify that it is not a case where a promise
initially made could not be lived up to subsequently.
It is not a case where it could be said that even if the
allegations in entirety are accepted, no case is made
out. Needless to emphasise, the High Court, while
exercising power under Article 226 of the
Constitution or Section 482 CrPC, has to adopt a
very cautious approach, 30. In CBI v. Ravi Shankar Srivastava [(2006)
7 SCC 188 : (2006) 3 SCC (Cri) 233] the Court, after
referring to Janata Dal v. H.S. Chowdhary [(1992) 4
SCC 305 : 1993 SCC (Cri) 36] and Raghubir Saran v.
State of Bihar [AIR 1964 SC 1 : (1964) 1 Cri LJ 1],
has observed that the powers possessed by the High
Court under Section 482 CrPC are very wide and the
very plenitude of the power requires great caution in
its exercise. The Court must be careful to see that its
decision in exercise of this power is based on sound
principles and such inherent powers should not be
exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. This
Court has further stated that it is not proper for the
High Court to analyse the case of the complainant in
the light of all probabilities in order to determine
whether a conviction would be sustainable and on
such premises arrive at a conclusion that the
proceedings are to be quashed. It has been further
pronounced that it would be erroneous to assess the
material before it and conclude that the complaint
could not be proceeded with. The Bench has opined
that the meticulous analysis of the case is not
necessary and the complaint has to be read as a
whole and if it appears that on consideration of the
allegations in the light of the statement made on oath 62 of the complainant that the ingredients of the offence
or offences are disclosed and there is no material to
show that the complaint is mala fide, frivolous or
vexatious, in that event there would be no
justification for interference by the High Court. 31. In R. Kalyani v. Janak C. Mehta [(2009) 1
SCC 516 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 567], after referring to
the decisions in Hamida v. Rashid [(2008) 1 SCC 474
(2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 234] and State of Orissa v. Saroj
Kumar Sahoo [(2005) 13 SCC 540 : (2006) 2 SCC
(Cri) 272], this Court eventually culled out the
following propositions: ( R. Kalyani case [(2009) 1
SCC 516 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 567], p. 523, para 15)

 "15. Propositions of law which emerge from
 the said decisions are: It is worth noting that it was observed
 therein that one of the paramount duties of the
 superior court is to see that a person who is
 absolutely innocent is not subjected to
 prosecution and humiliation on the basis of a
 false and wholly untenable complaint. 32. Recently in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab [(2012) 10 SCC 303 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 1188 : 40, para 55)

 "55. In the very nature of its constitution, it
 is the judicial obligation of the High Court to
 undo a wrong in course of administration of
 justice or to prevent continuation of
 unnecessary judicial process. This is founded
 on the legal maxim quando lex aliquid alicui
 concedit, conceditur et id sine qua res ipsa
 esse non potest. The full import of which is
 whenever anything is authorised, and
 especially if, as a matter of duty, required to
 be done by law, it is found impossible to do
 that thing unless something else not
 authorised in express terms be also done, may
 also be done, then that something else will be
 supplied by necessary intendment. Ex debito
 justitiae is inbuilt in such exercise; the whole
 idea is to do real, complete and substantial
 justice for which it exists. The power
 possessed by the High Court under Section
 482 of the Code is of wide amplitude but
 requires exercise with great caution and
 circumspection." 33. Applying the aforesaid parameters we
have no hesitation in coming to hold that neither the
FIR nor the protest petition was mala fide, frivolous
or vexatious. It is also not a case where there is no
substance in the complaint. The manner in which the
investigation was conducted by the officer who
eventually filed the final report and the transfer of
the investigation earlier to another officer who had
almost completed the investigation and the entire
case diary which has been adverted to in detail in
the protest petition prima facie makes out a case
against the husband and the wife regarding
collusion and the intention to cheat from the very
beginning, inducing the appellant to hand over a
huge sum of money to both of them. Their conduct of
not stating so many aspects, namely, the power of
attorney executed by the original owner, the will and
also the sale effected by the wife in the name of
Monika Singh on 28-7-2008 cannot be brushed aside
at this stage. 34. Therefore, we are disposed to think that
the High Court, while exercising the extraordinary
jurisdiction, had not proceeded on the sound
principles of law for quashment of order taking
cognizance. The High Court has been guided by the
non-existence of privity of contract and without
appreciating the factual scenario has observed that
the wife was merely present. Be it noted, if the wife
had nothing to do with any of the transactions with
the original owner and was not aware of the things,
possibly the view of the High Court could have
gained acceptation, but when the wife had the
power of attorney in her favour and was aware of
execution of the will, had accepted the money along
with her husband from the complainant, it is
extremely difficult to say that an innocent person is
dragged to face a vexatious litigation or humiliation.
The entire conduct of Respondents 2 and 3 would
show that a prima facie case is made out and 65 allegations are there on record in this regard that
 they had the intention to cheat from the stage of
 negotiation. That being the position, the decision in
 Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma [(2000) 4 SCC 168 : 35. In view of our aforesaid analysis we allow
 the appeal, set aside the order [Criminal
 Miscellaneous WP No. 69 of 2011, order dated 29-1-
 2011 (All)] passed by the High Court and direct the
 Magistrate to proceed in accordance with law.
 However, we may clarify that we may not be
 understood to have expressed any opinion on the
 merits of the case one way or the other and our
 observations must be construed as limited to the
 order taking cognizance and nothing more than that.
 The learned Magistrate shall decide the case on its
 own merits without being influenced by any of our
 observations as the same have been made only for
 the purpose of holding that the order of cognizance is
 prima facie valid and did not warrant interference by
 the High Court." 22. It is trite law that in exercise of the power by
the High Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C, it cannot
undertake a detailed examination of the facts contained
in FIR by acting as an appellate Court and draw its
conclusion. It is only when no prima facie cognizable
case is made out on its mere reading, then under such
circumstances, it can exercise its power, otherwise it
cannot quash the proceedings. In that light, I want to
rely upon the decision in the case of Chirag M. Pathak v.
Dollyben Kantilal patel, reported in (2018) 1 SCC 330,
wherein at paragraphs-23, 24 and 31 it has been
observed as under:-- "23. The High Court, in exercise of its powers
under Section 482 of the Code, cannot undertake
a detailed examination of the facts contained in
the FIRs by acting as an appellate court and
draw its own conclusion. It is more so when
investigation in other societies is not yet complete. 24. In our considered opinion, it is only when
on reading the FIR, a sheer absurdity in the
allegations is noticed and when no prima facie
cognizable case is made out on its mere reading
due to absurdity in the allegations or when facts
disclose prima facie cognizable case and also
disclose remarkable identity between the two
FIRs as if the first FIR is filed second time with no
change in allegations then the court may, in
appropriate case, consider it proper to quash the
second FIR. Such is not the case here. 25. xxx xxx xxx 26. xxx xxx xxx 27. xxx xxx xxx 28. xxx xxx xxx 29. xxx xxx xxx 30. xxx xxx xxx 31. In view of the foregoing discussion, we
cannot concur with the reasoning and the
conclusion arrived at by the High Court in the
impugned judgment [ Kantilal Ambalal Patel v.
State of Gujarat , 2013 SCC OnLine Guj 8799].
The appeals thus succeed and are allowed. The
impugned judgment [ Kantilal Ambalal Patel v.
State of Gujarat , 2013 SCC OnLine Guj 8799] is
set aside." 23. It is also trite law that if there are serious
triable allegations in the complaint, it is a matter to be
investigated into. Under such circumstances, the Court
cannot exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction for
quashing the proceedings. In that light, I want to rely
upon the decision in the case of Pramod Suryabhan
Pawar v. State of Maharashtra , reported in (2019) 9
SCC 608, wherein at paragraphs-6 to 8 it has been
observed as under:-- Inherent power under Section 482 CrPC can be
exercised: 24. Inherent powers under Section 482 CrPC though wide have to be exercised
sparingly, carefully and with great caution
and only when exercise is justified by the
tests specifically laid down in this section
itself. Authority of the court exists for the
advancement of justice. If any abuse of the
process leading to injustice is brought to the
notice of the court, then the court would be
justified in preventing injustice by invoking
inherent powers in absence of specific
provisions in the statute." 7. Given the varied nature of cases that
come before the High Courts, any strict test as
to when the court's extraordinary powers can
be exercised is likely to tie the court's hands in
the face of future injustices. This Court in State
of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v.
Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992
SCC (Cri) 426] conducted a detailed study of
the situations where the court may exercise its
extraordinary jurisdiction and laid down a list
of illustrative examples of where quashing
may be appropriate. It is not necessary to
discuss all the examples, but a few bear
relevance to the present case. The Court in Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal ,
1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426] 69 noted that quashing may be appropriate
where : (SCC pp. 378-79, para 102)

 "102. ... (1) Where the allegations made in
the first information report or the complaint,
even if they are taken at their face value and
accepted in their entirety do not prima facie
constitute any offence or make out a case
against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first
information report and other materials, if any,
accompanying the FIR do not disclose a
cognizable offence, justifying an investigation
by police officers under Section 156(1) of the
Code except under an order of a Magistrate
within the purview of Section 155(2). ***

 (7) Where a criminal proceeding is
manifestly attended with mala fide and/or
where the proceeding is maliciously instituted
with an ulterior motive for wreaking
vengeance on the accused and with a view to
spite him due to private and personal grudge." 8. In deciding whether to exercise its
jurisdiction under Section 482, the Court does
not adjudicate upon the veracity of the facts
alleged or enter into an appreciation of
competing evidence presented. The limited
question is whether on the face of the FIR, the
allegations constitute a cognizable offence. As
this Court noted in Dhruvaram Murlidhar
Sonar v. State of Maharashtra [Dhruvaram
Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra,
(2019) 18 SCC 191 : 2018 SCC OnLine SC
3100], (Dhruvaram Sonar) : (SCC para 13) 70 "13. It is clear that for quashing
 the proceedings, meticulous analysis
 of factum of taking cognizance of an
 offence by the Magistrate is not
 called for. Appreciation of evidence is
 also not permissible in exercise of
 inherent powers. If the allegations
 set out in the complaint do not
 constitute the offence of which
 cognizance has been taken, it is open
 to the High Court to quash the same
 in exercise of its inherent powers." Further in the case of SABRE TRAVEL TECHNOLOGIES5 this

Court has held as follows: Once the Court finds that FIR does disclose prima facie
commission of any cognizable offence, it should stay its
hand and allow the investigating machinery to step in
to initiate the probe to unearth the crime in accordance
with the procedure prescribed in the Cr.P.C. ... ... ... 32. This Court also in the judgment in
Criminal Petition No. 3197/2020 between Yogesh
Agarwal v. State of Karnataka vide order dated
24.9.2020 referred several judgments of the Apex
Court and held that when both the remedies are
available, one under the civil and another under
the criminal law and allegations constitute an
offence, then under such circumstances, it is not a
case to quash the proceedings. It is trite law that
on plain reading of the contents of the complaint,
if no case is made out and the investigation and
trial are not going to serve any purpose, then
under such circumstances, the Court can quash
the proceedings. (Emphasis supplied) 72 On a coalesce of the judgments relied on by the respective

learned counsel what would unmistakably emerge is that

criminal proceedings cannot be interjected merely because the

issue involved is civil in nature; no fetters can be placed on Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. for considering the documents that

are placed before the Court which would go to the root of the

matter; Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. should be used to advance the

cause of preventing miscarriage of justice. There can be no

qualm about the principles enunciated in all these cases. 15. The Apex Court in the case of MEDMEME (supra) was

considering an identical issue and the paragraphs quoted would

clearly indicate that the offences under Sections 420, 406 or 409

and even Section 120B cannot be alleged against the petitioner. The subsequent judgment in the case of JAKKUR PROMOTERS

considers MEDMEME judgment of the Apex Court and holds that

if the issue is purely civil in nature and remedy of arbitration 73 being available, criminal proceedings should not be permitted to

continue. 16. All these judgments were rendered in cases where the

accused was a party to the contract. The petitioner, in the case

at hand, is not a party to any of the transaction, he may be privy

but not a party. Criminal proceedings cannot be initiated

against a person who is not even a party to the entire

transaction. The role of an intermediary has been the subject

matter of cases being registered in several High Courts of the

country. The High Court of Bombay in the case of AMAZON

INDIA, THROUGH ITS INDIA HEAD, MR. AMIT AGRAWAL V.

STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, THROUGH ULHASNAGAR POLICE

STATION AND ANOTHER6 has held as follows: (emphasis supplied) 15. As such the Petitioner is neither owner,
nor seller, nor supplier of product in question, but
he facilitated the Complainant to purchase this
product by following a marketplace based model
of e-commerce. Admittedly, Petitioner does not
follow inventory based model of e-commerce. The
Petitioner simply provides a neutral platform
which allows sellers to interact with the buyers. 16. In consideration of these admitted facts,
the allegations do not constitute an offence of
cheating, nor the allegations disclosed the 75 fraudulent intention of the Petitioner, when
Complainant placed an order of the product in
question. The Petitioner being a mere facilitator,
Complainants' allegations that he was induced to
buy a product with intention to cheat him, is
wholly absent. There is no material on record to
even suggest that the Petitioner had a direct
involvement and inducing the Complainant to
place an order with intention, not to deliver it,
even after receiving the consideration for the
same. Thus, neither the complaint, nor inquiry
report submitted by the Investigating Officer
constitute the offence of cheating against the
Petitioner. 17. As to constitute offence under Section 420 of
IPC, it must be shown that Complainant parted with his
property, acting on a representation, which was false to
the knowledge of the accused; AND the persons so
deceived should be induced to deliver any property to
any person or the person so deceived should be
intentionally induced to do anything which he would not
do if he was not so do AND the act done pursuant to
inducement should be one are caused or likely to cause
damage or harm to the person induced in body, mind,
reputation or property. 18. In the case in hand, the allegations do not
imply or suggest that any point of time, the Petitioner
induced the Complainant to part with property
(consideration for a product) with a dishonest intention,
not to deliver the same. On the contrary, facts of the
case show that the Complainant volunteered to
purchase the product through the e-commerce market
platform of the Petitioner from the seller. Thus, the
ingredients to constitute offence of the cheating are
wholly absent. The learned Magistrate failed in
appreciating the facts of the case and thereby
committed an error in concluding that prima-facie case
of cheating has been made out. 19. For the reasons stated, Petition is allowed. As
 a result, Complaint No. 193/2020, pending before the
 learned Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Ulhasnagar
 and order dated 16th August, 2021 passed therein, qua
 Petitioner, is quashed. Rule is made absolute in the
 aforesaid terms." (Emphasis added)

The High Court of Gujarat as in the case of PURAV ATULBHAI

SHAH V. STATE OF GUJARAT AND OTHERS7 has held as

follows: Application No.2793 of 2012) had purchased certain
 quantity of goods from the respondent complainants on
 behalf of the concerned purchasers, who are also
 coaccused in the FIRs. On receipt of payment from the
 concerned purchasers, the co-accused made payment
 towards said goods to the respondent complainant. In
 respect of the transaction in question, the goods were
 supplied by the concerned complainant through the
 applicants and they were received by the concerned
 purchasers. Similarly, insofar as accused Purav Shah
 (viz. Applicant in Cri. Misc. Application No.2787 of 2012)
 is concerned, he worked as the main Broker. The
 applicant accused purchased the goods and delivered it
 to the concerned purchaser. The concerned purchasers
 issued cheques of the requisite amount in favour of the
 concerned complainant, however, the same was
 dishonored. It was submitted that even as per the 7 Crl.Misc.Application No.2787/2012 & connected cases 77 allegations made in the impugned FIRs, the applicants
were the purchasers of the goods in question and that
the cheques were issued by the concerned purchasers
and the applicants. Therefore, the applicants cannot be
held guilty of committing the offence in question. It was,
therefore, prayed that the impugned FIRs be quashed
and set aside. 3.1 Learned advocate Mr. Upadhyaya, thereafter,
submitted that even as per the allegations made in the
impugned FIRs, the concerned purchaser informed the
complainant that he had received the goods sent by the
complainant and that he had sold said goods to some
other party. However, the amount received by him has
been paid to a third party. Thus, even as per the
allegations made in the FIRs, the co-accused admitted
that he had sold the goods received from the
complainant to a third party and that the amount
received by him from such sale has been paid to some
other party. Hence, the applicants cannot be held liable
for the act of the co-accused persons. It was, therefore,
submitted that the impugned FIR deserves to be
quashed and set aside. 3.2 Learned advocate submitted that even if it is
presumed that the complainant had sold the goods in
question to the applicants and that the applicants had
made payment towards such goods, then also the
applicants could be held guilty for the alleged offence
since the dispute is of a civil nature and the
complainant has to take recourse under the civil law. It
was, therefore, requested that the impugned FIRs
deserves to be quashed and set aside. 3.3 Learned advocate lastly submitted that a
plain reading of the impugned FIRs do disclose the
existence of the ingredients of the alleged offence.
Therefore, the present proceedings are nothing but, a
clear abuse of the process of Court. Hence, the
impugned FIRs deserves to be quashed and set aside. 3.4 Learned advocate placed reliance upon a
 decision of the Apex Court in the case of V.Y. Jose and
 another v. State of Gujarat and another reported in
 (2009) 3 SCC 78. ... ... ... 12. If the facts of the present case are
 examined in light of the aforesaid decision, this
 Court is of the view that the applicants had
 played the role of Brokers only in the entire
 transaction. It is not in dispute that the goods
 supplied by the Complainant was delivered to the
 concerned purchasers and that when the
 concerned purchasers issued the cheques in
 favour of the Complainant, such cheques got
 dishonored. Under no circumstances, the
 applicants could be held responsible for the act of
 the concerned purchasers." (Emphasis added)

Both the afore-extracted judgments were concerning a facilitator

or an intermediary. The facilitator or intermediary cannot be

permitted to be proceeded against in a criminal trial is what is

held by the Courts. Reference being made to judgments of the

Apex Court with regard to interference at the threshold of

criminal proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C., in the

cases of STATE OF ORISSA V. DEBENDRA NATH PADHI and NITYA DHARMANANDA V. GOPAL SHEELUM REDDY (supra) in 79 the circumstances is apposite. The Apex Court in the case of

DEBENDRA NATH PADHI8 holds as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 17. In view of the preceding analysis and the afore- extracted judgments of the Apex Court on all the issues, it would

be highly unjust to permit the prosecution to continue with the

proceedings against the petitioner and if so permitted, it would

without doubt lead to miscarriage of justice and become an

abuse of the process of law. This view of mine draws support

from the latest judgment of the Apex Court in the case of SHAFIYA KHAN ALIAS SHAKUNTALA PRAJAPATI V. STATE 9 (2018) 2 SCC 93 81 OF U.P.10 wherein the Apex Court has followed the earlier

judgment in the case of BHAJANLAL and has held as follows: 2022 SCC OnLine SC 167 82 (2) Where the allegations in the first
information report and other materials, if any,
accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable
offence, justifying an investigation by police officers
under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an
order of a Magistrate within the purview of Section
155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made
in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in
support of the same do not disclose the commission
of any offence and make out a case against the
accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not
constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a
noncognizable offence, no investigation is permitted
by a police officer without an order of a Magistrate
as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable
on the basis of which no prudent person can ever
reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground
for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar
engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the
concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is
instituted) to the institution and continuance of the
proceedings and/or where there is a specific
provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing
efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved
party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is
manifestly attended with mala fide and/or
where the proceeding is maliciously instituted 83 with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance
 on the accused and with a view to spite him
 due to private and personal grudge." 16. The principles laid down by this Court have
 consistently been followed, as well as in the recent
 judgment of three Judge judgment of this Court
 in Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v. State of
 Maharashtra2 . (Emphasis supplied)

It is also germane to notice the judgment in the case of MANOJ

MAHAVIR PRASAD KHAITAN V. RAM GOPAL

PODDAR11wherein , the Apex Court delineates the necessity to

look into the allegation with openness and pass any order in the

interest of justice. The Apex Court has held as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

 In the light of the judgments of the Apex Court afore- quoted, this is a fit case for this Court to exercise its jurisdiction

under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. and obliterate all further

proceedings against the petitioner. 18. For the aforesaid reasons, I pass the following: Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ