SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] Swindled in Delhi
DATE: 2016-02-15
SCORE: 68
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/45s831/np_swindled_in_delhi/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR: Got swindled by fake cops who made a fake raid on a fake brothel, got swindeled for 10k.

A little bit of background...I am a south Indian, I am married and still quite active on the adult dating websites (call me whatever you like). Met a few people on sites like adult friend finder etc. Had fun, some lasted long, some didn't, some became very good friends otherwise.

Coming to the story....I moved to Delhi recently about a few weeks ago. Don't know the culture, geography, people much. None the less, wife isn't home so fun times start. Met a couple of ladies from Delhi, Noida, had fun.

So as usual, wanted some fun this weekend, went online, met a young lady, spoke on Friday, then on Saturday. The girl was ahem...21yrs old, quite young for me....but never been with younger women, so thought, I shall give a try. She gives me a movie theater's address, we were supposed to meet there and then go to her place. Usually, girls at that age ask for money otherwise they don't come, but I never pay for sex. So this girl didn't ask a thing....she said, get me a gift, I am into older men (should have been the first cue). Just like any older guy, thought my luck was good. So met her today at the theater, we bought some drinks, there was a friend(she) of hers too, but we bought anyways, as her friend usually doesn't 'mind' (missed the second cue, realized it, but men think with the other head when it comes to women).

So we go to her place in a shady shady area, I still took the risk and go in. The girl was nice, didn't talk much, seemed lost. I wanted to leave, but didn't want to disappoint her...(ya rt!). So stayed for longer....the girl closed the door, I was fine with it. 

Now actual story begins....
We were just talking, suddenly, people knock on the door, she opens it. 3 guys in uniform (trousers and shoes) walk-in, yelling at the top, the house owner walks in with her son, complain about the girls the police. These guys snatch my phone and took me out. Now they took me to a Maruti Wagon R. Now my doubt was confirmed, I asked them if they were police, if so where is the jeep. The guy says, "Raid aisi hi maari jaati hain, jeep mein nahi aate". I took it to the face value. Asked the guy for the id card, he showed me something, didn't let me touch. Rattled out a few sections like Delhi Act and section 185 (I drank half beer) etc. Said they would take me to a hospital for tests, along with the girls. Took me there for 'tests'...in the parking lot the guy who showed the id card, pulled me aside and I was of course begging to let go off me. 

Finally, the dude agreed to take a bribe and let me go. He tried calling his superiors on fake calls (I knew they were fake, but I thought may be he was trying to scare me....an iota of doubt), spoke to them. Finally, we went to an ATM(he was outside), I withdrew cash, told the dude ATM wasn't working. He took me to another ATM, I tried playing the same trick, made the guy come near the machine, made another transaction in front of him, making sure his picture was in ATM camera.

Now, I was 90% sure they were fake, wanted to run away (I have my belongings with me), but then wondered, what if they were real police, later they would fuck my happiness. So didn't do that stupid thing. Asked him to show id card again, he didn't, and he called his other colleagues, I was asked to give it to another guy, I gave the money. Within seconds, the car was gone. I noted the number.

Now the police kissa....I was still doubtful that they were fake or not, so went to Janakpuri police station and inquired if there were any raids, they said no. So I went in, met the SI, told my story and got a report written....now the SI tells me, what if the girl complains tomorrow, your entire family will be dragged into it. Thought it was better not to write it, took my complaint back, gave the car details and phone number to the police and walked away.

Just sharing this so that somebody else won't be as stupid as I am. Glad that I am alive to write this :-)