BRIEF STATEMENT OF REASONS FOR THE DECISION: FACTUAL MATRIX - 1. Succinctly, the facts of the case as unfolded from the Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 1 of 11 chargesheet are that on 04.10.2018 the complainant Sanjay Sharma
caught the accused Vicky when he committed house breaking by
entering into the property in possession of the complainant. On the
date of the incident, the complainant had gone to purchase milk at
about 04:30 PM without locking his house and when he returned he
saw the accused coming out from his house and trying to run away.
The said accused pushed the complainant, however, the complainant
caught the accused and shouted "thief thief" upon which public
persons gathered at the spot. At the same time police official was
also nearby and recovered the complainant's mobile phones from
the accused. It is alleged that the accused committed the offences
punishable under Sections 380 / 411 of Indian Penal Code, 1860
(hereinafter, " IPC "), for which FIR No. 447/2018 was registered at
the Amar Colony Police Station, New Delhi. INVESTIGATION AND APPEARANCE OF ACCUSED - 2. After registration of the FIR, the Investigating Officer
(hereinafter, "IO") undertook investigation and arrested the accused
and on culmination of the same, the charge-sheet against the
accused was filed. After taking cognizance of the offence, the
accused was summoned to face trial vide order dated 04.12.2018. 3. On his appearance, a copy of chargesheet was supplied
to the accused in terms of Section 207 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter, " CrPC "). On finding a prima facie
case against the accused, charge under Sections 454 / 380 / 411 IPC
was framed against the accused by the Ld. Predecessor. The accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE- 4. During the trial, the prosecution examined four
witnesses in support of its case. 5. Sanjay Sharma (PW-1) deposed in his examination
that on 04.10.2018 he had gone to purchase milk at about 04:30 PM
without locking his house and when he returned he saw the accused
coming out from his house and trying to run away. The said accused
pushed him, however, he caught the accused and shouted "thief
thief" upon which public persons gathered at the spot. At the same
time police official was also nearby and upon search of the accused
two mobile phones of the complianant of make Samsung and Lava
were recovered from the accused. The complainant proved his
written complaint to the police (Ex. PW1/A) and all the documents
prepared during investigation i.e., site plan Ex. PW1/B, seizure
memo of recovered phones Ex. PW1/C, pointing out memo Ex.
PW1/D and superdarinama Ex. PW1/H. He also proved arrest and
personal search of the accused. He correctly identified the accused
and case property. He was cross examined by Ld. LAC for the
accused where he denied all the contrary suggestions. 6. Vinod Sharma (PW-2) is the neighbour of the
complainant and he deposied that on the date of the incident at about
04:30 PM he heard the noise of "chor chor". He stated that his
nephew namely Sanjay Sharma was shouting "chor "chor" and
after hearing the noise he went to the complainat and found that
public persons were gathered there and they had apprehended
accused Vicky. He also stated that police came at the spot and two Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 3 of 11 mobile phones of the complainant were recovered from the
possession of the accused. He proved the arrest and personal search
of the accused as well as seizure memo and site plan. PW2 correctly
identified the accused and the case property. He was cross examined
by Ld. LAC for the accused where he denied all the contrary
suggestions. It was also revealed in the cross examination that PW2
saw the accused at the Chaupal near the house of the complainant. 7. HC Sunil (PW-3) deposed in his examination that on
04.10.2018, he was on patrolling duty with HC Dharampal in his
beat area near Gali No.3, Garhi, East of Kailash. At about 04:30 PM
they reached near H.No. 96/13 where some public persons were
gathered and had apprehended accused Vicky. After search of the
accused they found two mobile phones from the trousers of the
accused. The said phones were identified by the complainant.
Thereafter IO recorded the statement of the complainant prepared
the rukka and handed over the same to PW3 for registration of FIR.
After registration of FIR, PW3 returned to the spot and handed over
original rukka and copy of FIR to the IO. PW3 proved the
documents prepared during the investigation. He also correctly
identified the accused and the case property. He was cross examined
by Ld. LAC for the accused in which he stated that IO had inquired
with public persons about the incident but they did not join the
investigation except the complainant. He also admitted that they had
not given any notice to any public person in this regard. He denied
all the contrary suggestions. 8. ASI Dharampal (PW4) is IO of the present case and Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 4 of 11 he confirmed the version of PW3 except to the extent that he stated
that the complainat searched the accused in his presence and
recovered his two mobile phones. He was cross examined by Ld.
Counsel for the accused where he stated that they reached the spot at
around 05:00 PM and he denied all the contrary suggestions. 9. The accused admitted the genuineness of the following
documents without prejudice to his defence: FIR (without contents)
(Ex. A-1), DD No. 28A and 41B both dated 04.10.2018 (Ex. A-2,
colly) and entry in register no.19 Ex. A-3. Therefore, formal
examination of witnesses to prove the aforesaid documents was
dispensed with under section 294 CrPC. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED AND DEFENCE EVIDENCE - 10. Thereafter, to enable the accused to personally explain
the incriminating circumstances appearing in evidence against him,
the statement of the accused was recorded without oath under Section 313(1)(b) CrPC. In reply, the accused stated that he was
taken by Sanjay Sharma from the bus stand to his house alongwith
some persons and they beat him along the way. He also stated that
he signed some blank papers and that he has been falsely implicated
as he used to reside at the house of Sanjay Sharma earlier and they
had a scuffle. He chose not to lead defence evidence. Thus, the
matter was fixed for final arguments. 11. Several opportunities were given to the accused to
address the final arguments, however, the said opportunities were
not availed. Final arguments were heard on behalf of State. An Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 5 of 11 opportunity was given to the accused to file written submissions but
to no avail. This court has given thoughtful consideration to the
material appearing on record as well as the arguments. ARGUMENTS - 12. It has been argued by the learned APP for the State that
all the ingredients of the offence are fulfilled in the present case. He
has argued that the complainant has given a consistent testimony
and the identity of the accused is established in the present case. He
also submitted that PW2 who is an eye witness and neighbour also
identified the accused and corroborated the complainant's testimony.
It has also been argued that the documents placed on record and oral
testimonies of prosecution witnesses have not disputed by the
defence. As such, it is prayed that the accused be punished for the
said offence. STANDARD OF PROOF - 13. Before dwelling into the facts of the present case, it
would be apt to discuss the legal standards required to be met by
both sides. In criminal law, the burden of proving the guilt of the
accused exclusively lies on the prosecution which must prove the
offences charged beyond reasonable doubt. The benefit of doubt, if
any, must go in favour of the accused. 14. The accused has been charged for the offences of theft
in a dwelling house etc (s. 380 IPC ), house breaking in order to
commit an offence of dishonestly receiving stolen property (s. 411 IPC ). To bring home the guilt of the accused under section 380 IPC, Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 6 of 11 the prosecution must prove that theft in terms of Section 378 IPC
was committed from any building, tent or vessel, which is used for
human dwelling or custody of property and to establish offence
under section 454 IPC in the present case, it must prove that the
accused committed lurking house trespass or house breaking with
intent to commit theft. Alternatively, it must be proved that the
accused retained stolen property knowing or having reason to
believe that the same was stolen property. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE 15. PW1/complainant who is the star witness categorically
deposed about seeing the accused coming out of PW1's house. He
stated that the accused pushed him, that he shouted "chor chor" 16. The version of PW1 is supported by the testimony of
PW2 who stated that he heard PW1 shouting "chor chor" and Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 7 of 11 reached to him where he found that public persons had gathered
and they had apprehended accused Vicky. Thus, his testimony
establishes the presence of the accused, whom PW2 identified
correctly, near the spot and his testimony also corroborates the
deposition of PW1 that he shouted "chor chor". Further, PW2
testified that police came at the spot and recovered two mobile
phones of the complainant from the accused. Therefore, the factum
of recovery of stolen articles from the accused is also established. 17. PW3 and PW4 are police witnesses whose testimony
also establishes the presence of the accused near the house of the
complainant at the time and also that public persons had gathered
there and apprehended the accused. In addition, their testimony also
proves that they recovered two mobile phones of the complainant
from the accused at the spot. PW4 stated that complainant searched
the accused in their presence while complainant stated that the beat
officer searched the accused in his presence. However, the said
discrepancy is minor in view of the otherwise consistent
testimonies of PW1, PW2, PW3 and PW4. 18. Section 454 IPC describes house breaking. A person is
said to commit "house breaking" who commits house trespass if he
effects his entrace into the house or any part of it in any of the six
ways described in Section 445 IPC or if being in the house or any
part of it for the purpose of committing an offence, or having
committed an offence therein, he quits the house or any part of it in
any of such six ways. The sixth such way is that if he enters or
quits by any passage which he knows to have been fastened Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 8 of 11 against such entrance or departure, and to have been unfastened by
himself or by an abettor of the house trespass. Section 445 IPC is
made punishable u/s 454 IPC and in the facts of the present case it
is clear that the complainant caught the accused leaving his house
after having committed theft of his mobile phones. Therefore, Section 380 IPC and 454 IPC have been established against the
accused. Since charge u/s 380 IPC has been established and Section
411 IPC can only exist alternatively, charge u/s 411 IPC stands not
established. 19. In his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. the accused has denied
the allegations against him and stated that he has been falsely
implicated as he had a scuffle with the complainant on an earlier
occasion. He also stated that he used to reside at the house of the
complainant earlier. However, the above statement is not evidence
within the purview of Indian Evidence Act and the accused did not
enter the witness box or adduce any other evidence to substantiate
his defence. The accused could have brought proof of having lived
at the house of the complainant or brought witnesses to prove the
alleged earlier scuffle with the complainant, however, he failed to
do so and therefore, his statement does not punch holes in the case
of the prosecution. 20. In the landmark judgment of Sharad Birdhichand
Sarda v. State of Maharastra, AIR 1984 SC 1622, the Apex Court
laid down the pre-requisites for conviction, which are as under: 21. In the facts and circumstances of the present case the
prosecution has succeeded in bringing direct evidence on record
towards the guilt of the accused as the oral and documentary
evidence proves that the accused broke into the house of the
complainant and committed theft. His identity and presence at the
spot is proved, the prosecution witnesses are reliable and
discrepancies, if any, are minor and do not affect the case of the
prosecution. CONCLUSION - 22. Resultantly, the prosecution has proved the case
against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. Accused Vicky is Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 10 of 11 hereby convicted of the offences under Section 454 and 380 of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860. ORDER - CONVICTED
 Pronounced in open court on 12.01.2024
 This judgment comprises of 11 signed pages. (NEHA BARUPAL)
 Metropolitan Magistrate - 12
 South-East District, Saket Courts,
 New Delhi/12.01.2024 Cr. Case No. 8208/2016 State v. Vicky Page 11 of 11