SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need Help regarding possible scam!!
DATE: 2024-08-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ev4673/need_help_regarding_possible_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mother ordered something from flipkart few days back. But our flipkart account is same with 2 addresses with different number. The order was prepaid. Order was done from my mother's mobile with her mobile number and address.

Today, I got a call saying where in my locality should the guy deliver the order and the order is COD. I thought it as some mistake from flipkart or delivery boy as order is prepaid.

Contacted flipkart: They said order is prepaid and asked to check with the delivery agent number provided by them. Called him and he said he hasn't called me a single time and yes order is prepaid.

I thought it is a scam but was really confused they knew our address, my mobile number and the exact order amount. 

Then I checked my mother's mobile. There were messages 2-3 days back from shiprocket that order is on the way on whatsapp. Today, she got messages(text ones not whatsapp) that product is out of delivery and keep the Rs.__ amount ready.

Most weird part is suppose even the order details are leaked why she is getting all the messages and when I am getting all the calls from delivery agency. How did they get my phone number.

I contacted the number given in text message. He said he is not in office at the moment and will himself call on the registered number related to the order. 

Contacted flipkart again: The customer support directly someone might have hacked your account. When I explained the situation more, she said me 3-4 times that "You can take any legal action you want". They said they won't even register the complaint against the seller who might have leaked my info to some scammers or is a scammer himself.

Again got call from 1st delivery boy: He said should I come to deliver now. I told him its not my order. He said then don't worry just cancel it and I said ok cancel. He said give me the Cancellation otp sent. I got the otp message but straight up said I am not getting any mesaage will contact later. I thought it might be some bank related otp scam.

The product we ordered was some clothes from Gosriki but the another order is from Glowroad by R's shop(as mentioned in text messages). Another order seems to be clothes too as full order name is not written in that other order. It end with .....

Please advise what you think about this situation. Can this be a scam or mistake from seller. The AWB tracking number and website to track seems very legit.

Really sorry for the long post.