This appeal by the appellant/wife is directed against the

judgment and decree dated 7.3.2006 passed by the learned Additional

District Judge-I, Faridabad on a petition filed by the respondent/husband for

dissolution of marriage by a decree of nullity under sections 5 and 12 of the FAO No.72-M of 2006 2 Hindu Marriage Act (for short the Act). In order to appreciate the controversy between the parties it

would be appropriate to reproduce the averments made in the petition in

toto: The petition was contested by the appellant/wife by raising

preliminary objection that the petition filed was not maintainable as the

provisions of Sections 5 and 12 of the Act were not attracted as no fraud or

cheating was ever played or committed by the appellant/wife. Plea of

estoppel was also raised on the ground that the respondent was guilty of

various matrimonial offences and could not take advantage of his own

wrongs. It was also pleaded that the respondent had supressed true and

material facts and did not disclose the true and real facts. The jurisdiction

of the court was also challenged. Allegations of cruelty were also levelled

against the respondent. On merit, it was the case set up by the appellant/wife that the

marriage between the parties was solemnized on 28.11.1999 at Arya Samaj

Mandir, Rath Khana, Bikaner according to Hindu rites and ceremonies. It FAO No.72-M of 2006 9 was denied by the respondent that she had filed any affidavit voluntarily at

the time of performance of marriage or that she claimed herself to be

spinster or supressed any material facts with regard to her past. It was

pleaded that the appellant had disclosed all the material true facts pertaining

to her past marriage and divorce with a Muslim husband in the third week of

April, 1997 when the parties met for the first time while journeying in the

train. The respondent/husband was said to be well acquainted with the

previous marriage with Muslim husband and of divorce. He was also aware

that the appellant had two kids from the previous husband. She denied that

at the time of marriage she was a Muslim married woman. She however,

admitted that there was no issue from this wedlock. The allegations made in para No.4 were specifically denied. It

was pleaded that the marriage was performed according to wish and

planning of the respondent/husband. She also pleaded that after the

marriage she was taken to Air Force Station, Nal, Bikaner and kept her in

bachelor accommodation allotted to him, as his wife where they lived

together for 7 months. Marriage was duly consummated. It was also the case

set up that even prior to the marriage they were living together and legal

shape was given to the marriage on 28.11.1999. It was pleaded that before

settling at Jodhpur the respondent temporarily took accommodation on rent

in House No.677, Sector 17, Faridabad. There also the parties resided as

husband and wife. Kids of the appellant were also residing with them, where

they were admitted to Modern School, Sector 17, Faridabad. She denied

that the marriage was not consummated as alleged. It was also pleaded that

the parties lived as husband and wife till 7.8.2000 at various placed i.e. at FAO No.72-M of 2006 10 Bachelor's accommodation, Air Force Station, Nal, Bikaner; , Sector 17,

Faridabad and at Jodhpur for few days and for 2 days in in-laws house at

Shalimar Bagh, New Delhi. In reply to para No.6, she admitted that the respondent was

Pilot in Indian Air Force at the time when they met in train. It was also

asserted that at that time the appellant was posted as Vice Principal in St.

Peters Convent School, Vikaspuri, Delhi. Contents of para No.7 were also

vehemently denied. She pleaded that in the Air Force Base, or in the Air

Force Club, nobody from outside can enter the premises being a highly

protected and sensitive area. Entry to the Air Force Station is permissible

with the consent of concerned officer. She specifically denied that she had

given her age to be 27 years. The allegations made in para No.9 were also denied. She

specifically denied the allegations of cheating, misrepresentation or

impersonation. She denied the allegations of black mail. While denying

averments, she specifically pleaded that marriage certificate showed that

there was no supression of any material fact including the age of the

appellant. She denied having furnished any affidavit. Contents of para

No.12 of the petition were specifically denied and it was pleaded that the

story given was totally fabricated and made up. It was pleaded that

respondent was well aware and acquainted with the past of the appellant. It

was pleaded that with full faith the parties lived a happy married life with

their own free consent. The averments made in para No.13 were also denied. It was

pleaded that the facts alleged about her previous marriage to a Muslim were FAO No.72-M of 2006 11 known to the respondent. It was pleaded that she had divorced her previous

husband on 20.3.1995 in accordance with Shariat and Muslim law by

clearly stating in the presence of the appellant and other family members

'Talaq' thrice, with clear intention to divorce the appellant with immediate

effect. It was pleaded that there was no bar to marrying any Hindu

thereafter. It was also her pleaded case that on 22.7.2000 while parties were

living together the respondent entered into altercation with one

S.D.Aggarwal and a criminal case was registered in which both the

appellant and respondent were arrested by the police and were released after

2 days. She also pleaded that they were lodged in Rohtak jail case

registered vide FIR No.509 dated 22.7.2000 under sections 323 , 452 and 506 IPC. The case was said to be still pending. The averments made in para No.14 of the petition were also

specifically denied. The case registered with Police Station Kalkaji, Delhi

was said to be a pressure tactics to get divorce by mutual consent. Other

averments made in petition were also denied. In the replication, averments made in the petition were

reiterated whereas averments made in the written statement were denied. On the pleadings of the parties the following issues were

framed by the learned Matrimonial Court:- Learned counsel for the respondent did not address any

argument but only submitted written arguments before the learned

matrimonial court. Learned matrimonial court decided issues No.1 and 2

together. Learned matrimonial court proceeded with the presumption that

ignorance of the appellant with regard to the appellant's previous marriage

with Muslim named Wasif Khalil and her divorce from him assumed

significance in the light of the fact that the respondent was seeking

dissolution of marriage in the light of Sections 5 and 12 of the Act as also section 23 (1)(a) of the Act. After referring to the provisions of the Act, learned matrimonial

court noticed that admittedly parties were married on 28.11.1999 at Arya

Samaj Mandir at Bikner, where the respondent was working as Flight

Lieutenant in the Indian Air Force. The learned matrimonial court also held

that prior to the marriage the parties had courtship from 24.4.1997. The

learned matrimonial court came to the conclusion that during the journey

the appellant had introduced herself as Miss Bhavna Sharma and claimed

herself to be the Vice Principal of St. Peters Convent School, Vikaspuri,

Delhi and an eminent journalist, who was journeying from Delhi to

Hyderabad in connection with writing of book on Anglo-Indian. They had FAO No.72-M of 2006 13 another meeting on 25.5.1997 and had telephone conversations on 2-3

occasions. During his visit to Delhi he stayed for 2 weeks at Delhi. During

this period the parties were in constant touch through letters and telephone

conversations. Letter in support of this were produced by the appellant/wife.

He admitted his letter Ex.R.18 wherein he had written certain Do's and

Don'ts during his absence. Letters produced were addressed by the

respondent which showed the relationship between the parties. The court

also took note of the photographs Exs.R.28 to R.35. Respondent had to

admit that the some of the photographs were taken in the house of

Ms.Arpana i.e. daughter of RW 2 Shri K.V.Krishanaya at Hyderabad. The learned matrimonial court held that the evidence led by the

respondent/husband showed that he was indulging in select dementia and

his conduct was not found to be above board. The learned matrimonial court

did not accept the plea of the respondent in view of the documentary

evidence in shape of rent note, showing that he had taken lease property at

Faridabad for her. The learned matrimonial court further held that the stand

of the respondent that he came to know about the date of birth of the

appellant/wife only at the time of marriage was also not accepted, in view

of the evidence on record. The finding was recorded in view of the fact that

the house was taken on rent by him in the year 2000, wherein he paid

advance rent. Payment by cheque was also proved by way of documentary

evidence. The court also did not believe the plea of coercion or black mail

by evaluating the documentary evidence. The respondent had admitted that

he was arrested by the police on 22.7.2000. The learned matrimonial court,

therefore, held that arrest of the respondent left no doubt that he was FAO No.72-M of 2006 14 visiting the appellant during this period and that the proclaimed threat that

he was not to see the appellant again after 28.11.1999 was not accepted.

The learned matrimonial court, however, held that the appellant was 12

years older than the respondent. On the question 'whether the respondent was aware of factum

of previous marriage of the respondent with a Muslim, and that she had two

children out of the previous marriage' was held in affirmative, as in the

telephone conversations on several occasions especially in July, 1997 he

had inquired about the well being of her two children, which stood

corroborated from letter Ex.R.17 which was written by the respondent to the

appellant, wherein he had conveyed his special love to Heena and Hello to

Shaz. The learned matrimonial court held that the stand of the respondent,

that he believed them to be the children of her relation or friend could not

be accepted in view of the letter Ex.R.17, which was addressed by the

respondent to the appellant. The learned matrimonial court further held that

the respondent had filed a suit in the court of learned Senior Sub Judge,

Tees Hazari Court, Delhi where he sought direction to the Principal,

Sherwood Convent senior Secondary School, DLF City Gurgaon, Regional

Office C.B.S.C., Chandigarh and the Controller of examinations, CBSC,

Delhi to delete his name as father of Master Rohan and Kumari Ragini i.e.

the new names given of the children of the appellant. The learned matrimonial court, however, held that those

children could not be treated to be the children of the respondent as he had

not adopted them. Learned matrimonial court did not find the judgment of

learned Additional District Judge, Delhi in the suit filed by the respondent FAO No.72-M of 2006 15 to be judgment declaring the marriage between the parties to be invalid to

record a finding in the petition filed by the respondent under sections 5 and 12 of the Act. The learned matrimonial court further held that the

respondent was convicted in the inquiry report Ex.RW 7/A regarding his act

of sexual activities, before marriage with the appellant. Even though the petitioner sought decree of nullity of marriage

by invoking the provisions of Section 5 read with section 12 of the Act and

had not claimed decree of nullity under section 11 of the Act, but the

learned matrimonial court in spite of recording a positive finding that there

was no fraud or misrepresentation, went on to decide the petition to decree

the petition by taking the marriage to be nullity in view of the subsisting

marriage of the appellant with her previous husband. Though the

declaration of nullity can be claimed by parties alone, and the court has no

such suo motu power, in view of Section 11 of the Act. The findings were based on the plea that previous marriage of

the appellant was not validly dissolved, inasmuch as though appellant was

born in a Brahmin family but after her marriage with Wasif Khalil she had

converted to Muslim religion. She claimed in the evidence that she had

taken divorce by saying 'Talaq' three times, and further that she had no

documentary evidence in support thereof. The learned matrimonial court

further held that in the affidavit Ex.PN she had mentioned that she was

previously known as Sahar Wasif, but after her divorce from her previous

husband Mr.Wasif Khalil, she was called as Bhavna. She also deposed that

notices in various newspapers were also given in this regard. She also

produced Pandit Babu Lal to prove that she has undergone Shudhikaran for FAO No.72-M of 2006 16 reverting back to Hinduism. Learned matrimonial court noticed that it was

not only the respondent, but the appellant was also not truthful as her stand

that she was working as Vice Principal in St. Peters Convent School,

Vikaspuri, Delhi stood belied from the evidence on record. The learned

matrimonial court found that evidence led to disprove this fact could not be

shattered in cross-examination by the appellant. The learned matrimonial court found that her deposition that

she was an under-graduate in 1997, and thereafter had appeared from

Osmania University to get decree of B.A. stood falsified from marks-sheet

mark A which revealed that she had failed in three subjects. Her statement

that she enrolled in M.A. In Indira Gandhi University was also not

believed. The learned matrimonial court also did not believe that she was a

eminent journalist, as she had no diploma in journalism nor she has been

graded as journalist with any newspaper. The learned matrimonial court

found that there was also no evidence of her having written any article in

"Hindu". Plea that she had given her correct date of birth was also not

accepted on appreciation of evidence. The learned matrimonial court found

that the respondent in any case could not take any benefit of this, as he had

accompanied her and had himself purchased the stamp paper for swearing

the said affidavit. Findings were recorded by the learned matrimonial court,

that the respondent was aware about her previous marriage, as also her date

of birth. The learned matrimonial court, however, did not believe the stand

taken by the appellant that she had divorced her previous husband in view

of Section 2 of the Dissolution of Muslim Marriage Act, 1939, as the FAO No.72-M of 2006 17 marriage by the Muslim wife could only dissolve by filing a petition for

dissolution of marriage in a civil court, as the Muslim wife could not suo

motu divorce her husband. The learned matrimonial court found that the appellant

continued to be Muslim till July, 1999. Therefore, on the date of her

proclaimed divorce in 1995 she was still Muslim and in the absence of

decree of decree by a competent court, the divorce claimed by her was not

valid. The learned matrimonial court further held that even for

Muslim husband to get divorce by pronouncing Talaq three times certain

prerequisites as envisaged in Muslim law are required to be fulfilled. The judgment relied upon by the appellant in the case of

Perminder Charan Singh etc. Vs. Harjit Kaur 2003 (2) RCR (Civil) 810

and judgment of this court in the case of Sunita Vs. Jugal Kishore 2004

(4) RCR (Civil) 784 were held not applicable to the facts of the case. The

learned matrimonial court, therefore, held that the marriage between the

parties was nullity within the meaning of section 5 read with section 11 of

the Act and consequently issues No.1 and 2 were decided in favour of the

respondent/husband. However, on issue No.3 The learned matrimonial court was

pleased to hold that the appellant would be entitled to permanent alimony

at the rate of Rs.2000/- (Rupees two thousand only) per month. Mr.G.S.Bhatia, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

appellant contended, that the finding of the learned matrimonial court

cannot be sustained, in as much as the pleadings in the petition clearly FAO No.72-M of 2006 18 showed that the respondent himself had shown the status of the appellant to

be Muslim divorcee. It was for this reason that he had chosen to file a

petition under section 12 of the Act and not under section 11 of the Act.

Once the respondent had failed to prove fraud or misrepresentation learned

matrimonial court could not have decreed the petition by making out a new

case which was not pleaded. It was also the contention of the learned

counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, that it is well settled that no

evidence beyond pleadings, can be looked into for recording a finding on

an issue. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant also

contended that in the present case much importance has been given to the

typographical mistake in the evidence, wherein it was stated by the

appellant that she had divorced her husband whereas it was otherwise. It

was her previous husband who had divorced her by uttering word 'Talaq'

thrice in the presence of relations. This fact further stood proved from the

statement of Babu Lal Pandit, who proved that the appellant had undergone

Shudhikaran to come back to fold of Hinduism. Mr.R.K.Malik, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of

the respondent, on the other hand, contended that in the petition it was

pleaded by the respondent, that the marriage between the appellant and her

previous husband was subsisting, therefore, it could not be said that the

evidence led was beyond pleadings, as contended by learned counsel for the

appellant. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent in

support of the finding that the marriage between the appellant and her

previous husband was not validly dissolved relied on the Full Bench FAO No.72-M of 2006 19 judgment of Hon'ble Bombay High court in the case of Dagdu Chotu

Pathan Vs. Rahimbi Dagdu Pathan and Ors. 2003 (3) RCR (Civil) 773,

wherein it was held that under the Mohammedan law 'Talaq' must be for a

reasonable cause and preceded by attempts of reconciliation between the

spouses and two arbiters one from each family. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Shamim Ara Vs. State of U.P. & Anr. 2002 VIII AD

(S.C.) 321, where again Hon'ble Supreme Court held that 'Talaq' must be for

a reasonable cause which must be preceded by an attempt of reconciliation

by the husband and wife and two arbiters - one chosen by wife from her

family and other by husband from his family. If such attempt fails then only

'Talaq' may be effected. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of this court in FAO

No.61-M of 1998 Mohan Lal Sharma Vs. Parveen decided on 20.8.2009,

wherein it was held that the marriage in violation of provisions of Section 5 is a nullity and the conduct of party seeking relief is of no consequence. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Bombay

High court in the case of Dr.Mangla Shellar Vs. Dr.Laxman Ganpat

Jadhav AIR 2008 (NOC) 773 (Bombay) wherein it has been held that

decrees under sections 5 , 11 and 12 of the Act, are different remedies

provided under the law in different situations and different circumstances. Learned senior counsel appearing on the behalf the respondent

also relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme court in Bachhaj Nahar

Vs. Nilima Mandal & Ors. AIR 2009 SC 1103 to contend that when a case

is not specifically pleaded, can still be considered by the court when the FAO No.72-M of 2006 20 pleadings in substance, though not in specific terms, contains the necessary

averments to make out a case, and the issues framed generally covered the

question involved and the parties proceeded on that basis and led evidence. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case relied upon has held

that it should be only in exceptional cases, where the court is fully satisfied

that pleadings and issues generally cover the case subsequently put forward

by the parties, being conscious of the issue and have led evidence on said

issue. This contention deserves to be noticed to be rejected, as petition was

not filed under section 11 of the Act but under Section 12 of the Act on the

plea of fraud. On consideration of matter, I find force in the contentions

raised by the learned counsel for the appellant. \ In this case, the respondent had sought divorce under Section

12 of the Act primarily on the ground that the marriage was the outcome of

fraud and misrepresentation. The case set up was not that the marriage

between the parties was nullity under Section 11 of the Act, as is clear from

the fact that the respondent himself mentioned in the petition the status of

the appellant to be Muslim divorcee at the time of marriage. Even

otherwise, it may further be noticed that if the plea of the respondent is to be

accepted, that it was pleaded case of the respondent that the appellant had

subsisting marriage and was Muslim, at the time of marriage, the judgment

and decree still deserves to be set aside as in that eventuality the provisions

of the Act would not be applicable to the parties. Hon'ble Bombay High

Court in Smt. Neeta Kirti Desai Vs. Bino Samuel George AIR 1998 FAO No.72-M of 2006 21 Bombay 74 has been pleased to lay down as under:- Reliance of learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondent in case of Gullipilli Sowria Raj Vs. Bandaru Pavani @

Gullipili Pavani 2009 (1) RCR (Civil) 442 can not advance the case of the

respondent as the question of the jurisdiction of the court to entertain a

petition in violation of Section 2 of the Act was not considered in the said

case. Section 2 of the Hindu Marriage Act reads as under:- Explanation.-The following persons are Hindus, Buddhists,

 Jainas or Sikhs by religion, as the case may be:- (3) The expression 'Hindu' in any portion of this Act shall be

 construed as if it included a person who, though not a Hindu by

 religion, is, nevertheless, a person to whom this Act applies by FAO No.72-M of 2006 23 virtue of the provisions contained in this section."

 The reading of section clearly shows that if one of the parties is

not Hindu, the Act will have no application, to entertain a petition for

divorce. The judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court is in exercise of powers

under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, and the appellate court

exercising powers under section 28 of the Act is bound by the provisions of

the Act. In view of the findings recorded above, this appeal is allowed.

The judgment and decree passed by the learned Additional District Judge-I

is set aside, and petition filed by the respondent husband is ordered to be

dismissed but with no order as to costs. (Vinod K.Sharma)
1.09.2009 Judge
rp