CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUBHASH CHAND ------ This bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant-
 Hemant Kumar Das with prayer to release on bail in connection with Korrah P.S.
 Case No.97 of 2021 registered under Sections 384 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 of the
 Indian Penal Code and Section 66(C) and 67 of the I.T. Act pending in the court
 of learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Hazaribag. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that the F.I.R. of
 this case was lodged by the police officer with the allegations that the police
 personnel had received information that some persons were involved in illegal
 business of sextortion and cheated the persons on the pretext of providing
 escort service from the girls. The police party conducted raid and two persons,
 namely, Suraj Kumar Nayak and Hemant Kumar Das (the applicant herein) were
 apprehended at the spot and they disclosed the names of their associates as
 Ranjit Kumar Nayak and Bablu Kumar, who managed to flee away from there. It
 is further alleged that mobile phones, laptop, ATM card, passbook etc. were
 seized from the house of Deochand Ravidas, wherein the said business was
 being carried on. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that the
 applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. Nothing
 incriminating article was recovered from his possession and he has never used
 any website for cheating any person as alleged in the F.I.R. The applicant has
 been languishing in jail since 28.08.2021. Learned Spl. P.P. appearing on behalf of the State vehemently
 opposed the contentions made by the learned counsel for the applicant and
 contended that the applicant was apprehended from the spot. Though, the
 incriminating articles were recovered from the house of Deochand Ravidas, yet
 the applicant and other co-accused were carrying business therein. In view of the submissions made and materials on record, the bail
 application of the applicants is hereby allowed. Let the applicants be released
 on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.25,000/-(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand)
 each with two sureties of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court
 concerned in aforesaid case. (Subhash Chand, J.)
 Rohit