This is a special newsletter that went out to readers who have signed up for our newsletter on November 18, 2025. It contains highlights of significant stories from our reportage during October 2025.

Welcome to our special edition newsletter, ‘Questions to Consider’, dedicated to the important questions we think our audience should consider on the latest tech-policy news. This newsletter is designed to make you think about such concerns, be it state surveillance, policy developments, industry-shaping changes in sectors like e-commerce, fintech, and more.

And from this perspective, October 2025 was a busy month for the tech policy space, with two separate amendments, one proposed and one finalised, for the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021).

Under the draft amendment to the IT Rules, 2021, the government has introduced requirements for regulating synthetically generated information. The amendment introduces the concept of “synthetically generated information” and mandates that companies that allow users to create such content prominently should label it with metadata or identifiers covering at least 10% of the visual display or audio duration.

Importantly, this move follows previous non-binding advisories issued in 2023 and 2024, with the government now seeking to establish a clear legal framework for accountability and traceability of synthetic content.

India has amended the IT Rules, 2021, establishing a strict 36-hour deadline for platforms to remove unlawful content following government or court orders. The amendment, effective November 15, 2025, mandates that only senior officers (Joint Secretary rank or equivalent, or DIG for police) can issue takedown notices, which must include written reasoning and a statutory basis.

Also, monthly reviews by Secretary-level officers will ensure orders are “necessary, proportionate, and consistent” with the law. Meanwhile, non-compliance results in loss of safe harbour protection. Importantly, the amendment follows the Karnataka High Court’s (HC) validation of the Sahyog Portal and strengthens the government’s position as X (formerly) appeals to the Supreme Court (SC).

The Madras HC has recognised cryptocurrency as a form of property under Indian law. The case originated when the petitioner, Rhutikumari, sought an injunction under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, to prevent Zanmai Labs, the operator of the WazirX exchange, from interfering with her 3,532 XRP tokens. Her holdings had been frozen in the wake of a large-scale cyberattack on one of WazirX’s wallets and a subsequent restructuring process initiated in Singapore by its parent company, Zettai.

In its order, the HC argued that cryptocurrency qualifies as property under Indian law because it possesses characteristics of ownership, control, and enjoyment despite being intangible. It mentioned that digital assets such as cryptocurrencies exist as entries on a blockchain ledger: identifiable and transferable like other forms of property.

The Ministry of Civil Aviation has released the Draft Civil Drone (Promotion and Regulation) Bill, 2025, which seeks to replace existing drone rules framed under the colonial-era Aircraft Act, 1934. The bill designates the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) as the primary regulator and mandates registration, type certification, and Unique Identification Numbers (UIN) for all civilian drones. Notably, the provisions of this Act will only apply to civilian drones, which means that unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) used by the Indian Army and police forces are exempt.

The Allahabad HC has observed that “subtle messages” and “unsaid words” can invoke enmity among different religious groups, even if there is no direct mention of the religion in the “inflammatory message”, while dismissing a petition filed by one Afaq Ahmad. For context, he had requested the court to quash an FIR filed against him for a WhatsApp message he had sent to a “multitude of persons”. The court stated that the WhatsApp message’s “unsaid words” were “likely to create or promote feelings of enmity, hatred and ill-will between religious communities”. The court further added that members of one community might believe they are being targeted by another community through the abuse of the legal process.

In October this year, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) launched the Scheme for Innovation and Technology Association with Aadhaar (SITAA), an innovation contest inviting startups to develop solutions to reduce Aadhaar fraud. To explain, the contest focuses on three challenges: face liveness detection (combining active and passive methods to prevent spoofing), presentation attack detection (identifying manipulated photos, videos, deepfakes, and AI-based attacks), and contactless fingerprint authentication (using smartphone cameras instead of physical scanners).

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event