Hello, I saw a advt on olx for activa 5g 2019 Model 8500 KM driven. i contacted him, he claimed himself in indian army based at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Named Bhag Chand Lal Bairwa. For my satisfaction i asked him for sending Activa's RC and his Photo ID then he whatsapp me the same with Aadhar, PAN and Activa RC alongwith Activa video. In his all documents his permanent address was same as Jaipur and also i checked the Activa Reg. Number online which was perfect as mentioned in documents. After that he asked me to pay 1550 for transport charge from Jaisalmer to Jaipur through 'Car and Bike transport service' - Indian Army and the transport amount will be deducted from deal price (21300/-). Accordingly i paid 1550 trough paytm on other number of transport manager as provided by Bhag chand Lal. Yesterday evening by 7.15 PM i received transport challan with photo of packed Activa and asked will be deliver today by 11.30 AM at my home as i provided my DL copy for delivery address. Today transport driver called me as he has stopped at Jaipur border (Bagru) due to GPS charges to be paid 5099/- which will refunded in cash at the time of Activa delivery at my home..i denied for the same initially but somehow they convinced me for the same and again i paid through Paytm then again they told me pay Rs 5000 and 99 separately because i did wrong transaction of 5099 together as it should have paid separately i.e. 5000 and 99 as 99 will be charged and rest 5099+5000 will be refund in cash at the time of delivery. due to believe on Indian Army challan and its typical transport process i paid again separately and told him not to pay any further charges, if any occurs and they agreed for the same. Then after 1/2 an hour transport driver again called me from nearby Jaipur border as he said and asked for 7000/- for receiving charges to be paid on same Paytm number as per Army transport rules for final delivery at home. Then i felt i have been cheated and denied to pay any amount, in reply they asked me its OK my delivery on hold for 45 days. I did not contact then further till time after 1.17 PM today as I am trying to lodge FIR against them with documents I received meanwhile. Please find deatils of fraud gays as specified in provided docs: Name : Bhag chand Lal Bairwa Contact number: [[protected] / [protected]] This numbers are still active. Paytm Number – [[protected]] Paytm Name – Vinod Kumar Transport Driver Number – [[protected]] Trucaller Name – Good Bay Please suggest me what to do now and how to get money back and how to make them punish them.