SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I fell prey to the online sextortion scam. I need help guys.
DATE: 2022-06-04
SCORE: 66
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/v4qjmc/i_fell_prey_to_the_online_sextortion_scam_i_need/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a throwaway account.

Before anyone says this, yes I have learnt my lesson thoroughly.

I am a high schooler.

In my moment of weakness when I was aroused and excited I went onto this site called "Skokka", which is used to get camgirls and stuff.

I picked a girl from there and we started talking over WhatsApp. Before talking to her, I set my profile picture, about and last seen to nobody, so nobody could see it. I removed the my surname from my WhatsApp account.

She initially offered her services for 500 Rs. I agreed. I checked the UPI ID, and it was a guy's. I was immediately weirded out and asked her why. During all this time she was egging me on to make the payment. She said it was her Boyfriend's and she gave me another number. It was a girl's this time. I continued and made the payment to this ID.

Then she started asking for 1000 Rs More. I vehemently denied. She then videocalled me. But I had the camera turned towards the wall. My face was visible only for an instant, like not even half a second. She asked me my location. I told her I didn't find it necessary to tell her my location. She asked to see my face. I denied. Then she ended the video call.

Then she started threatening me that she would leak "my personal details" and give my personal details to this "company" and that then I'd have to pay in Lakhs instead of thousands. I tried to play it off by telling her I was just a student and I didn't have any more money. But she refused to budge. In my moment of weakness I sent her the thousand rupees she asked for.

Then she started asking for "one last 3000". At this point I took screenshots of the chat, then deleted all the messages I had sent, and blocked her.

She then starts messaging me again from another number, sending voice recordings in which she threatened me. She called me out by my name. But I soon realised she could've known my name from the UPI payment itself.

So I again took screenshots, deleted my messages and blocked this number. Unfortunately the audio recordings of her threatening me were deleted in my hastiness.

It has been a day since this has happened.
They have had no further contact with me since. I have been using a VPN and regularly scanning my phone for any sort of spyware or malware. I unlisted myself from Truecaller immediately. I can purge my phone if it's really necessary. If it's really necessary i can purge my current WhatsApp account for a new one on the same number. I have an Instagram, but it's rarely used. I am not on Facebook. I plan to change my SIM number in the future, change it in the bank account details, adhaar, and wherever it may be necessary.

Can anyone advise me on what to do from here on out? Do you guys think they could have any sort of other personal information on me? Like my address, contact of family members, photographs from my gallery, or my bank details?

Can I get in any sort of legal trouble in this? Or trouble with some thugs or unsavoury people? 

I do not want to pursue any sort of action against them. I just want to put this behind me.

Any sort of insight and advice would be really helpful guys. Even upvotes would be useful for making this more visible in the subreddit.

Thanks again, guys.