JUDGMENT

BHAN,ASHOK J. Claimants/appellants aggrieved against the common/similar judgments and
orders dated 20.12.1999 passed by the High Court of Himachal Pradesh
dismissing their claim for interest @ 12% granted by an earlier order of
the Division Bench of the same High Court in C.W.P. No. 510/85 dated
9.9.1985 on equitable consideration for depriving them of their lands
without taking proceedings under the Land Acquisition Act and payment of
compensation have come up in these batch of appeals. Facts being common and similar it would be sufficient to refer to the facts
of CA No. 443 of 2001 for the purposes of deciding the controversy involved
in these appeals. Some areas of Himachal Pradesh before re-organisation of the State of
Punjab on 1.11.1966 formed part of the erstwhile State of Punjab. Public
Works Department, Government of Punjab in the year 1966 took up the
construction of Solan-Jawanji-Dharja Road. After the re-organisation of the
States on 1.11.1966 the PWD Department of H.P. took over the construction.
The road was finally commissioned in the year 1968. Possession of the land
owned by the appellants comprising of Khasra No. 102/1 situated in Village
Bagur, Tehsil and District Solan, along with the lands of large number of
villages that came under the said road construction plan was taken over in
the year 1968. Though the possession of the land was taken over from the
Land-owners in December, 1968 no steps were taken to formally acquire the
land by issuing notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act,
1894 [hereinafter referred to as "the Act"]. Having failed to secure justice to get any compensation or even step being
taken by the Government for acquiring the land of nearly 17 years, a public
interest writ petition No. 510 of 1985 titled Chander Kant Sharma and Ors.
v. State of Himachal Pradesh, was filed. The State of Himachal Pradesh
failed to justify any valid reasons for not taking steps to get the land
acquired and for not paying any compensation to the Land-owners. Finding
grievance of the writ petitioners to be genuine the High Court vide its
judgment and order dated 9.9.1985 directed the respondents to complete the
acquisition proceedings within a time frame and further directed them to
pay to the writ petitioners interest @ 12% per annum from the date of
taking over of possession till the date of payment of interim compensation
and of final compensation, if there is enhancement. It was observed that
the aforesaid interest payable was in the nature of equitable compensation
and such interest shall be in addition to the compensation, solatium and
interest at the statutory rate which would be paid to the writ petitioners
under the law whether awarded by the Collector or enhanced by the Court and
such interest shall not be taken into consideration in any proceeding under
the Act while awarding the statutory compensation (direction No. 3). The
Division Bench gave the following directions for expeditious relief to the
writ petitioners: As the writ petition had been filed in public interest, in the direction
No. 4 it was ordered by the Court that all the Land-owners whose land had
been taken possession of in either of the awards would be entitled to the
similar relief. Some other petitioners filed CWP No. 125 of 1986 and CWP No. 147 of 1988
which were also disposed of with the similar directions. As a result of the directions issued by the High Court in its order dated
9.9.1985 the respondents issued the notification under Section 4 of the Act
for Village Bagure vide Notification No. Lok-Nirmn (Kha) - 7 (1)/62/88
dated 25.2.1989 published in the H.P. Gazette dated 15.4.1989. The Land
Acquisition Collector completed the formalities of acquiring the land and
ultimately by its award No. 27/1990 dated 31.1.1991 fixed the market value
of the land at Rs. 9,727 per bigha. Apart from the statutory benefits of
solatium etc. the land-owners were also awarded the interest @ 12% p.a.
from the date of taking over of possession till the date of payment as
directed by the Division Bench in its order dated 9.9.1985 on equitable
grounds. Being aggrieved against the market value fixed by the Land Acquisition
Collector the appellants filed an application seeking reference under Section 18 of the Act to the District Judge. The District Judge, Solan vide
its award dated 1.9.1992 enhanced the compensation to Rs. 45,000 per bigha.
It was held that the land-owners were entitled to compensation at the rate
of Rs. 45,000 per bigha and that they shall be further entitled to : The Respondents being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award
preferred a First Appeal under Section 54 of the Act before the High Court
which was marked as Regular First Appeal No. 104 of 1993. By reason of the
impugned judgment, a Division Bench of the High Court while upholding the
amount of compensation payable to the Appellant herein for acquisition of
the land set aside that part of the award, purported to be relying on or on
the basis of the decision of this Court in State of Himachal Pradesh and
Ors v. Dharam Das , AIR (1996) SC 127, complying the payment of interest
only with effect from 7.5.1989 or with effect from the date of publication
of the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act and not from 18.12.1968. In Dharam Das , (supra) the State of Himachal Pradesh had filed an appeal
against the judgment rendered in C.W.P. No.125 of 1986, [State of Himachal
Pradesh and Ors. v. Dharam Das ], in which a direction similar to the one
which had been given by the High Court in C.W.P. No.510 of 1985, [Chander
Kant Sharma and Ors. v. The State of Himachal Pradesh through the Secretary
and Anr.] was given. This Court did not approve of the view taken by the
High Court and a contra view was taken by holding that the amount other
than the one envisaged either under Section 23 (1- A) of the Act or under
any of the provisions of the Act could not be granted on equitable grounds. SUBMISSIONS : FINDINGS : In `The Doctrine of Res Judicata' 2nd Edition by George Spencer Bower and
Turner, it is stated : Reference, in this connection, may also be made to Ram Chandra Singh v.
Savitri Devi and Ors., JT (2005) 11 SC 439. Yet recently in Swamy Atmananda and Ors. v. Sri Ramakrishna Tapovanam and
Ors., JT (2005) 4 SC 472 in which one of us was a party, this Court
observed: It was further noticed: Yet again in Arnold v. National Westminster Bank Plc., [1991] 3 ALL ER 41,
the House of Lords noticed the distinction between cause of action estoppel
and issue estoppel. Cause of action estoppel arises where the cause of
action in the later proceedings is identical to that in the earlier
proceedings, the latter having been between the same parties or their
privies and having involved the same subject-matter. In such a case, the
bar is absolute in relation to all points decided unless fraud or collusion
is alleged, such as to justify setting aside the earlier judgment. The
discovery of new factual matter which could not have been found out by
reasonable diligence for use in the earlier proceedings does not, according
to the law of England, permit the latter to be reopened. Issue estoppel may
arise where a particular issue forming a necessary ingredient in a cause of
action has been litigated and decided and in subsequent proceedings between
the same parties involving a different cause of action to which the same
issue is relevant, one of the parties seeks to reopen that issue. Here also
bar is complete to relitigation but its operation can be thwarted under
certain circumstances. The House then finally observed: but there is room
for the view that the underlying principles upon which estoppel is based,
public policy and justice have greater force in cause of action estoppel,
the subject-matter of the two proceedings being identical, than they do in
issue estoppel, where the subject-matter is different. Once it is accepted
that different considerations apply to issue estoppel, it is hard to
perceive any logical distinction between a point which was previously
raised and decided and one which might have been but was not. Given that
the further material which would have put an entirely different complexion
on the point was at the earlier stage unknown to the party and could not by
reasonable diligence have been discovered by him, it is hard to see why
there should be a different result according to whether he decided not to
take the point, thinking it hopeless, or argue it faintly without any real
hope of success. In Gulabchand Chhotalal Parikh v. State of Gujarat , AIR (1965) SC 1153 the
Constitution Bench held that the principle of res judicata is also
applicable to subsequent suits where the same issues between the same
parties had been decided in an earlier proceeding under Article 226 of the
Constitution. It is trite that the principle of res judicata is also applicable to the
writ proceedings. [See Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation v.
Balwant Singh , [1993] Supp 1 SCC 552]. In Bhanu Kumar Jain v. Archana Kumar and Anr. , [2005] 1 SCC 787, it was
held: It was further observed: The said dicta was followed in Barber v. Staffordshire Country Council,
[1996] 2 All ER 748. A cause of action estoppel arises where in two
different proceedings identical issues are raised, in which event, the
latter proceedings between the same parties shall be dealt with similarly
as was done in the previous proceedings. In such an event the bar is
absolute in relation to all points decided save and except allegation of
fraud and collusion. [See C. (a minor) v. Hackney London Borough Council,
[1996] 1 All ER 973]. [See `The Doctrine of Res judicata', 2nd Edn. by Spencer Bower and Turner
p. 149]

In this view of the matter, the High Court, in our opinion, had no
jurisdiction to go into the aforementioned question. Furthermore, a writ of mandamus is required to be obeyed unless a judgment
is overruled or a legislation by way of validating statute is brought into
force. In Madan Mohan Pathak and Anr v. Union of India and Ors. , [1978] 2 SCC 50 : In any event, the directions issued by the court stood complied with.
Having regard to Section 18 of the Act or otherwise the wheel cannot be
turned back. We must also note that the question raised by the learned Judges of the
High Court was not raised by the Respondents although having regard to the
decision of this Court in Dharam Das (supra) it was available. The High Court, in our opinion, although has a wide power in terms of Section 107 of the Code of Civil Procedure but it could not have gone
outside the pleadings and make out a new case. In Siddu Venkappa Devadiga v. Smt. Rangu S. Devadiga and Ors. , [1977] 3 SCC
532, it was held: For the reasons stated above, the appeals are accepted, the impugned
judgments under appeals are set aside and that of the Reference Court are
affirmed. No costs.