SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Electoral politics is about choosing the lesser evil... And INDIA alliance is exactly that. 
DATE: 2024-05-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1cpdea2/electoral_politics_is_about_choosing_the_lesser/

--- POST TEXT ---

I reckon there are too many undecided apolitical people who say BJP and Congress are two sides of the same coin. However, the truth is that Congress and the INDIA alliance may be bad, but they are certainly not worse than BJP. Some of the undecided apolitical people may feel alienated by Congress' "radical" push for more affirmative action and the caste census, but I don't think it makes Congress akin to BJP. 

BJP engages in blatant communal bigotry. It uses central agencies like the ED to serve political vendetta. The press freedom and academic freedom indices go down almost every year. During the UPA era, the media talked about their scams, but no media criticizes the government now. UP's CM openly orders DMs to investigate any media reports criticizing the government.

As for the caste census, I believe that the Congress Party, which fought the last two elections on milquetoast centrism, felt that it needed an ideology (Mandal) to counter Hindutva politics (Kamandal) . Historically, this was the forte of parties like SP and RJD and not the Congress. In fact, historically Congress and BJP's stances on "caste politics" were pretty similar. 

I personally agree with the idea of a socioeconomic caste census as the data revealed by the one conducted in Bihar provides a lot of data to work with. It reveals the massive inequalities in resources. 

However, Congress's aggressive push has also resulted in BJP getting defensive on the issue of affirmative action and getting slightly desperate vis-a-vis reservation. They are now trying to communalize Congress' aggressive push for affirmative action and talk about how Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi opposed reservation. 

The truth is that this is only rhetoric. When it comes to "caste politics", even BJP has breached the 50% ceiling in several states, although the Supreme Court stalled it in some cases. In Haryana, after the Jat agitation, the BJP government brought 10% OBC reservation for Jats even though they are a dominant landowning community who own most of the land in the state. In Maharashtra, they brought a 10% quota for Marathas, who are a dominant caste, breaching the 50% ceiling. Centrists who don't like the BJP, but oppose "caste politics" must also contend with this. Of course, this is not to say that the opposition didn't support these bills. They also supported the bills. 

I would also like to point out the 10% EWS reservation brought by the BJP also breached the 50% ceiling. The BJP advertised it as the first reservation for general castes. Was it not "caste politics"?? I mean the definition of EWS is so lax that nearly everyone in the general category is included. (Less than 5% of families earn over 8 LPA, although privileged people like us may think otherwise) 

Even if you think from the perspective of someone who doesn't like "caste politics", I think BJP has all the problems that exist in the Congress, apart from communalism and authoritarianism. Congress is clearly the lesser evil.