The Supreme Court of India today ruled that the Indian government cannot cancel PAN cards if citizens don’t link an Aadhaar number to their PAN card. The PAN card is a necessary document for filing taxes. In what is a partial stay, the Court said that those who do not have an Aadhaar card should not be forced to get one. However, those who have a PAN card, will need to connect it to Aadhaar. They have this written down Section 139AA of the income tax act, but held it constitutional while also saying that the “Parliament needs to consider toning down the provision.” What is unclear is what the Government of India will do if you have an Aadhaar number, but choose not to link it to the PAN card. The full text of the (apparently voluminous) judgment hasn’t been published yet.

The court also highlighted the issue of leakages of personal data and Aadhaar numbers online, creating security concerns for citizens, and said that “this is a concern that needs to be addressed by the government”, adding that severe penalties need to be applicable in case of data leakages, calling preventive measures “essential”.

Issues relating to the right to self determination, the right to be left alone and “informational self determination” were deemed to be related the issue of privacy, which will be heard if and when the Supreme Court sets up a constitutional bench to hear those cases. The court looked at issues related to Article 14 (equality before law) and Article 19 (1) (g) of the Indian constitution, and dismissed the challenges on both grounds. They also said that the Court cannot question the wisdom of the legislature, in the context of the challenge that the Government of India amended the Income Tax Act in a manner that violates the interim injunction that made Aadhaar not mandatory for government schemes, except a few chosen schemes, until the constitutional bench decided on issues related to privacy.

The court also said that it is the prerogative of the legislature to make laws to ensure that there is deduplication of the PAN base.

This was one of the 6 possible outcomes

The judgment in this case had been reserved on May 4th 2017. As lawyer Gautam Bhatia had pointed out then, there were six possible outcomes in this case :

Some of the arguments in this case

The petitioners had argued that:

The government argued that:

Note: This post has been updated with more inputs from the reading of parts of the judgment in the Supreme Court.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event