SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The Internet is not your private army, the truth shall prevail - Androidly
DATE: 2015-04-14
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/32kqiy/the_internet_is_not_your_private_army_the_truth/

--- POST TEXT ---

**Hello r/india, I am Apurva Sukant, a redditor for six years and the CEO of Androidly. We make and sell Android based smartwatches through our companies incorporated in India and UK. Recently a thread titled 'AskIndia: These Patna Boys Made Internet Their Bitch For 2 Years, Now The Internet Wants To Bite Back, But How?' was posted.
http://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/327qoe/askindia_these_patna_boys_made_internet_their/
Apart from being hate filled and slanderous, it was patently false at several places. I am posting this to clear the air. I have copied his post here, and have responded to the relevant allegations, as follows. My responses are marked in bold.**

On 17th February 2013, a group of 4 Patna students became the headlines of several Indian newspapers owing mainly to two things: creating the world's first fully functional Android smart-watch, and the youngest in their team (merely 17 years old!) being hired as the CMO (since his mother was a program executive at a leading news network, a great boon for promotion). **There seems to be some personal vendetta involved on part of the OP of the other thread? I guess, one should not hate someone/their family, only because they are fortunate, then that is a bad thing. One should be happy for what one has, and build on that. My parents taught me to always take inspiration from less fortunate people and their troubles, so as to stop envying the more fortunate. The path to success is traversed by hard work and by making intelligent choices, not by ranting or hating.**

The CEO made his first mistake when he tried to advertise it on international websites like Android Authority , **We did not advertise on Android Authority, neither did we pay them in any way. We hadn’t even contacted them beforehand. Android Authority decided to publish an article covering Androidly, as they deemed it important enough to cover it in their article. I encourage you to please contact Android Authority, if you need proof.**

Where it instantly attracted a lot of backlashes **It did attract negative comments on that site initially, but was equally counter-balanced with positive reviews by several enthusiastic people later on. The feedback was mostly positive in totality. We have nothing to hide.**

and was revealed to be a rebranded ugly Chinese Z1 Android Watch-Phone **The Androidly smartwatch is not a rebranded Z1 Android watch, but an OEM and a distinctly different product due to its original software. The Z1 watch platform is made by MediaTek and is made available for ‘original equipment manufacture’ to interested companies. A company which desires to use the Z1 platform can OEM the devices and MediaTek then configures the platform to the OEM company’s specifications. We could have gone for a different physical design of the watch, but didn’t have enough funds to achieve that, so we decided to go ahead with the default design of the watch. The similarity in physical design has been the main source of confusion among customers. To summarize, the Androidly smartwatch belongs to Androidly, in the same way that the iPhone belongs to Apple and not to Foxcon, from where it OEMs it.**

**The main difference between the Androidly Smartwatch and the regular Z1 is the software. Androidly comes with the full Android experience including the Google Play Store, and all the official Google software. For this to happen, the OEM company needs to license it from Google Inc., a step which Androidly did. The Androidly smartwatch include smart input suited for the small screen. Whereas, the standard Z1 only comes with the Android base only, without the any of the Google apps and Google Play Store. It is loaded with Chinese software and the device language and input is Chinese.On a Z1, you can only sideload apps by manual transfer and installation of APK files, provided that you manage to find them.**

**Androidly came in and solved all these issues, along with providing the necessary marketing, warranty and customer support and corporate infrastructure required to make the product a success. This is why we claimed that Androidly was the world’s first true Android smartwatch, because no smartwatch came with the full Android experience, as seen on a phone or a tablet, but Androidly did.**

which launched almost a year back whose specifications/review (written months before Patna boys launched them) can be found here. Furthermore, it was found that the 4 Patna boys actually stole the software they used on the watch too from the original developer on XDA Developers. (He has deleted his user account when this revelation came into light yesterday). **There was no stealing of software. We have an in-house team of software engineers based in Bangalore, which develops and tests all our products. A developer was tinkering with a standard Z1’s ROM, on an XDA thread at that time, which was participated in by me. That developer offered the work for download and testing to other users on XDA, at which time, I did download and test it on Androidly, for comparison. That developer had merely added the Google framework to ease the trouble of loading Apps. We had already achieved this, during our own development of the ROM, and subsequently went on to add a host of other features and changes which went into the finished product. The Androidly smartwatch has its own build.prop settings, and is fully branded under the Androidly brand which is prominently displayed during the boot up and shut down sequences. Going into the About Phone section of the watch, anyone can verify that the ROM was built by and at Androidly, and that the device is indeed the Androidly Smartwatch. These things are absent from what the developer at XDA had made, which was a simple addition of an APK.**

**The claim that the user account was deleted since yesterday, after the ‘revelation’ is patently false and laughable. The account has always been active, and all the original posts by me are still there. I encourage you to visit XDA and verify by yourself. We have nothing to hide, and we do not care for name callers and hates. Haters gonna hate yo, players gonna play ;)**

Months later in July 2013, when Google announced its plans to launch a fully functional Android Smartwatch, the young CMO who was currently studying in London after he flunked his school (God bless his father, a high post at India Tourism for giving him a second shot at education) **Stop with the hating already! If he or his father did something illegal, I urge you to bring that up, otherwise I suggest you put a lid on the hate. Its in bad taste, and also unhealthy!**

thought that this was the perfect time to re-advertise the watch with him taking most of the light as the co-founder and the tech genius from London who put his hard work with 3 other guys. The Indians viewers LOVED the success story of an Indian boy from a small town who made it big in London, and he became a celebrity overnight and a much sought after speaker at a local, self-organized event. He also added “president and co-founder of XYZ organization”, a non-profit started by his own mother in his résumé. Having gained enough popularity in the print media, he decided to become a pure product of internet and followed the “How to become internet famous for $68” like guide by hiring what we would call a public-relations guy, who made his Wikipedia page up having exaggerated claims of personal achievements and also made his Facebook and Twitter page get free likes. **Apart from your speculations, prey do tell, what exaggerated claims are you talking about specifically? What are free likes? Tell me how to get them too, lol!**

Once the inoculum was stirred, his pages snowballed into what they are today and he even got Facebook to verify his page. And that’s exactly when he did the dumbest thing after failing school, he joined a pretentious website, ask.fm and although initially all the kids loved his success story (just like before, but with the added clause of “dropped school and became famous with a startup he owned”), several speculations started to arise on seeing the boastful posts of a very rich but self-made man who spends most of his time on vacations and/or speaking in conferences, and yesterday one of the fellow Redditors brought him to the light. When he got the air of this, he quickly deleted his ask.fm account before anyone could do anything and blocked whoever asked him questions on Facebook. **He told me that he deleted the account as most questions were not productive, but rather harassing. He didn’t want to be part of that.**

Following the fake NASA scientist from India and Arindam Chaudhari’s fake IIPM scam, this is the third incident of using internet where innocent non-redditors get fooled by the world wide web and confuse popularity with credibility. **Why not just call Androidly the Nazi Party and bring in Hitler! As I have explained above, Androidly is not a rebrand of Z1, so we are not lying about anything. The fake NASA scientist lied about his job, and Arindam Chaudhari lied about the validity of IIPM’s degrees in India. I fail to see how (though not why) you make such non-sequitur comparisons.**

Please spread awareness and if the cops come over my place, tell them I’m not here. I’m somewhere where people aren’t gullible enough to fall for such success stories backed by non-concrete evidences.

**Best of luck for your future!**

I am open for all questions, comments, criticism and debate. I encourage anyone to reach out to me here in the comments, or by email at admin@droid.ly Let me add that I like tearing down Ankit Fadia, the Zomato founder, Arindam Chaudhari and their ilk as much as the next person and have also participated in those threads here on Reddit. I support this kind of investigative social media participation, however, unlike them, we are a boot-strapped small start up from India, who needs less of this hate, unfounded in fact. If anything, we need more love and support to grow and serve you better.

**tl;dr- a disgruntled person tried to slander Androidly, but it was taken care of!**