Indira Banerjee, J. Leave granted. 2. These appeals are filed by Indian Oil Corporation Limited against

 a judgment and order dated 11th September 2015 passed by the High

 Court of Judicature at Bombay partly allowing Arbitration Appeal No.19

 of 2013 filed by the Respondent and dismissing Arbitration Appeal

 No.39 of 2013 filed by the Appellant. 3. The facts giving rise to these appeals are stated very briefly

 hereinafter. 4. The Appellant took a plot of land, hereinafter referred to as “the

said premises”, on lease from the Respondent for a term of 29 years,

pursuant to a deed of lease dated 20th September 2005 which was duly

registered, in order to set up a retail outlet for sale of its petroleum

products. 5. The recital of the deed of lease, inter alia, records:- 6. The deed of lease, hereinafter referred to as “the lease

agreement” contained, inter alia, the following terms and conditions:- … 4.) (e) To use or permit to be used the BUILDINGS AND
 SRUCTURES to be constructed on the DEMISED PREMISES for any
 and all lawful purposes as may be permitted by the Authorities
 from time to time including for storing, selling or otherwise
 carrying on business in Petrol, Diesel, Petroleum Products, oil and 2 kindred motor Accessories, Petrol Filling Service and Lubricating
Station etc.
… (i) Subject to the LESSOR/S covenant hereinafter contained (and
the Rights of the LESSE/S interest in the said DEMISED PREMISES
as mentioned hereinafter), to deliver and yield up the DEMISED
PREMISES at the expiration or sooner determination of the said
term as herein provided together --- all the LESSOR/S fixtures and
fittings in such state and condition as the same were in, when the
possession was taken of by the LESSEE at the commencement of
the said Term ( fair wear and tear and loss and/ or damage/s by
fire, fluid, earthquake, tempest, lightning, violence of any army,
mob or irresistible fierce or accident expected). All additions,
alteration, installations, (fittings and fixtures which during the said
term or any renewal thereof belong to and revert to the LESSEE
who shall be entitled to take away the same provided the
DEMISED PREMISES are restored to their original state and
conditions and the LESSOR/S will not have any right, title and
interest thereon nor shall he/she/they be entitled to retain or
appropriate any part thereof. … 3) (b) That on the LESSEE paying the rent hereby reserved and
observing and performing all the several Covenants, conditions
and Agreements hereinbefore contained and on its part to be
observed and performed the LESSEE shall peaceably hold and
enjoy the DEMISED PREMISES during the said and any renewal/s
thereof without any let or interruption by the LESSOR/S or by any
persons lawfully or equitably claiming through, under or in trust
for the LESSOR/S.
… 4)(a) ….. If the Rent hereby reserved or any part thereof shall be
in arrears for a period of one year after becoming payable and
after being demanded or if the LESSEE to be observed and
performed their and in that event it shall be lawful for the LESSOR
at any time thereafter to re-enter upon the said premises or any
part thereof in the name of the whole and to take action to
possess and enjoy as in all their former state and interest
Provided always and it is hereby agreed and declared that the
Power of Re-entry hereinabove contained shall not be exercised
unless and until the LESSOR/S shall have first given to the
LESSEES 90 days’ Notice in writing pointing out the Breach in
respect of which the right to Re-Entry is exercised and the LESSEE
shall have failed to remedy the breach within a reasonable period
of not less than 90 days thereafter. …. … (e) The LESSEE shall be entitled to ASSIGN, TRANSFER,
SUBLET, UNDERLET or part with the Possession of the
DEMISED PREMISES or any part thereof to any person 3 above name whomsoever it chooses without the consent
 of the LESSOR. (f) The LESSEE shall be entitled to appoint, remove, reappoint,
 change and substitute any dealers, agents, licensees and other
 authorized representatives on and in respect of the DEMISED
 PREMISES without the consent OF THE LESSOR. …… (n) PROVIDED ALWAYS AND IT IS AGREED AND DECLARED
 that at the expiration of the said Term of 30 years this
 LEASE will be renewed for a further term by mutual
 consent. The renewed lease will be on the rents,
 conveyance, conditions and Agreements to be mutually
 agreed upon between the Parties. … 5. Any dispute or difference of any nature whatsoever regarding
 any Right, liability, act, omission on account of any of the parties
 hereto arising out of or in rein-tion to these shall be referred to
 the sole Arbitrator of the Managing Director of the LESSEE
 and if the Managing Director is unable or unwilling to act
 as a sole Arbitrator then the matter will be referred to the
 sole Arbitrator of any other person designated or
 nominated by such Managing Director in his place and state
 writing to act as an Arbitrator and the LESSOR/S will not be
 entitled to raise any objection to any such arbitration on the
 ground that, the Arbitrator so appointed is an officer of the
 LESSEE of that as such officer he had dealt with the matters to
 which the disputes relates or had expressed his views thereon,
 the Arbitrator to whom the matter originally referred being
 transferred or vacating in his office being unable to act for any
 reason such Managing Director as aforesaid at the time of such
 transfer vacation of office or on his inability to act shall nominate
 as designate another person to act as an Arbitrator pursuant to
 this clause and such other person shall be entitled to proceed with
 the reference from the point at which it was left by his
 predecessor. It is expressly agreed that no person other
 than the Managing Director of the LESSEE as aforesaid
 shall act as an Arbitrator and if for any reason that is not
 possible, the matter shall not be referred to Arbitration at
 all. The Award of the Arbitrator so appointed as herein provided
 shall be final, conclusive and binding on both the Parties and such
 the Arbitration shall be held subject to and in accordance with the
 Provisions of the ARBITRATION ACT 1940, and any Statutory
 Modification ------enactment thereof.” 7. The Appellant set up an A site retail outlet at the said premises

making an investment of around Rs.50 lakhs. The Respondent was 4 appointed a dealer of the said retail outlet and a dealership agreement

dated 15th November 2006 was executed by and between the

Appellant and the Respondent. 8. The dealership agreement, inter alia, provided:- … 5 4. The Corporation reserves the right without
reference to or consent of the Dealer to appoint one or
more additional Dealer/s in the same town/area or Corporation’s
location and such additional Dealer/s shall be entitled right to appoint
to make sales of the products without any objection additional
from the Dealer and the Dealer shall not be entitled to Dealer/s
make any claim for remuneration, commission or
allowance whatsoever in respect of the sales made by
such additional Dealer/s and/or sales made by the
Corporation through such additional Dealer/s.
… 7.(a) The Dealer undertakes that he and his servants
and agents will observe and perform the provisions of
the Petroleum Act, 1934 and the Explosives Act, 1884 The Petroleum
and any statutory re-enactment or modification thereof Act
for the time being force and all rules and regulations
made thereunder and all other Government or
Municipal Local or similar Acts, Laws, Regulations and
bye-laws, as may be in force from time to time relating
to the Dealer's business in the said products and to the
storage, receipt and transportation and other related
matters as contemplated under this Agreement and all
requisitions and requirements of all authorities
appointed under the foregoing enactment, rules or
regulations. If there is any violation on the part of the
Dealer, his servants and agents of the aforesaid
provisions or statutory rules and regulations, the
Corporation will have the absolute right to discontinue
the supplies and take any other action including the
termination of this Agreement as the Corporation may
at its absolute discretion think fit. (b) The Dealer shall also be solely responsible for any
breach or contravention by himself, his employees,
agents of any Acts, rules, regulation or bye-laws of the
central and/or State Government and/or Municipal Local
and/ or other authorities as may be applicable to the
business including without prejudice to the generality of
the foregoing, the concerned authorities respectively
appointed under the Petroleum Act, Payment of Wages
Act, Shops and Establishments Act, Factories Act and
the Workmen's compensation Act. The Explosives Act,
1884 or any other Act or Statutory Rules, Regulations or
Bye-Laws made thereunder and/ or applicable from
time to time to the business of storage and sale of
products and servants, workmen and persons engaged
in connection therewith and the corporation shall not be 6 responsible in any manner for any liabilities arising out
of non-compliance by the Dealer with the same.
…
8(e) For the use of the said premises including the
construction thereon and outfit, the Dealer shall pay to
the Corporation a licence fee as may be fixed and Licence Fee
recovered or deducted in the manner as may be
decided by the Corporation, at its sole discretion and
without any previous notice to the Dealer shall from
time to time and at all times be entitled to increase or
revise or modify the said licence fee. …
… Dealer to
8(j) It is understood by the Dealer that the premises safeguard
mentioned in the First Schedule hereunder writer are Corporation right
Public Premises within the meaning of the provisions of in the premises
the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorized
Occupants). … 10. It is specifically agreed and declared that the basic
condition of the grant of the Dealership rights by the
Corporation to the Dealer herein is that the 'Dealer Minimum
hereby agreed, undertakes and covenant to uplift and quantity/sale
pay for the following minimum quantities of the product Targets
per month as specified hereunder. The Corporation shall have the absolute right to revise
the aforesaid minimum quantities/sale targets from
time to time by notice in writing and on every such
revision this clause shall be read and construed as if
such revised figures had been mentioned herein
instead of those hereinabove setout. It is also
specifically agreed that in the event of the Dealer not
achieving the aforesaid minimum quantities at any time
during three out of six consecutive months during the
currency of this Agreement, the Corporation shall be
entitled, notwithstanding any acquiescence or waiver of
this condition in respect of anyone or more months and
notwithstanding any other provision herein contained,
to terminate this Agreement by giving 30 days’ notice
in writing to the Dealer. … 15. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein Corporation’s
contained the Corporation shall be at liberty upon right to suspend
breach by the Dealer of any covenant in this Agreement supplies
to top and/or suspend forthwith all supplies to the
Dealer and/ or sales from the premises by the Dealer
for such period or periods as the Corporation may think
fit, and such right of stoppage and/or suspension of
supplies shall be in addition to and/or without prejudice
to any other right or remedy of the Corporation under
this Agreement or Law. For the purpose of this clause,
the General Manager of the Corporation for the time
being at Mumbai shall be the Sole Judge as to whether
a breach of any covenant of this agreement has been
committed by the Dealer. The Dealer shall not be
entitled to claim any compensation or damage from the
Corporation on account of any such stoppage and/ or
suspension of supplies. … 17. ……The Corporation shall have the right to
 Product
exercise at its discretion at any time and from time to
 Specification/Con
time quality control measures for products marketed by - the Corporation and lying with Dealer. The opinion of
 amination/adulte
the General Manager of the Corporation for the time ration
being at Mumbai as to whether any product of the
corporation has been contaminated and/or adulterated
shall be final and binding upon the Dealer. In the event of the said General Manager finding
that the contamination and/or adulteration of product
has been due to any act or default or negligence of the Terms of
Dealer or of his servants or agents, the Corporation payment
shall have the right, without being bound to do so, to
remove the contaminated/ adulterated product and to
destroy or otherwise deal with the same without
making any payment therefor to the Dealer and without
prejudice to the Corporation a right to terminate this
Agreement forthwith. … 21. It shall be a paramount condition of this Agreement
that the Dealer himself (if he be an individual) or both
partners of the Dealer firm (if the Dealer is a Working
partnership firm consisting of two partners only) or the Dealer
majority of the partners of the Dealer firm (if the Dealer
is a firm consisting of more than two partners) or the
majority of the office bearers / elected members of the
Dealer Ço-operative Society (if the Dealer is a Co-
operative Society) or the Managing/whole time 8 Directors (if the Dealer is a Private Limited Company),
as the case may be shall ordinarily be resident in India
and shall take an active part in the management and
running of the Dealership and shall personally
supervise the same and shall not under any
circumstances do so through any other person firm or
body either as 'Benami' or through any 'Power of
Attorney' or otherwise . … 42. The Dealer shall at all times faithfully, promptly
and diligently observe and perform and carry out at all
times all directions, instructions, guidelines and orders Dealer to
given or as may be given from time to time by the comply with
Corporation or its representative(s) on safe practices Corporation’s
and marketing discipline and/or for the proper carrying directives
on of the Dealership of the Corporation. The Dealer
shall also scrupulously observe and comply with all
laws, rules, regulations and requisitions of the
Central/State Government and of all authorities
appointed by them or either of them including in
particular the Chief Controller of Explosives,
Government of India and/or any other local authority
with regard to the safe practices. 43. The Corporation by its officers, representatives or
servants will be entitled at all times to enter upon the
premises and inspect the management of the retail
outlet by the Dealer in all respects and the Dealer shall Corporation’s
be bound to render all assistance and give all right to inspect
information to the Corporation and its duly authorized management of
representatives in that behalf and produce to the dealership
Corporation and/or its duly authorized representatives
in that behalf whenever required to do so Invoices/Cash
Memos for all purchases and receipts for all payments
which it is the Dealer's duly to make whether under the
terms of this Agreement or otherwise. …
 Forthwith 45. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary Termination
herein contained, the Corporation shall be at
liberty at its entire discretion to terminate this
Agreement forthwith upon or at any time after
the happening of any of the following events
namely:- covenants and stipulations contained in this
 Agreement,…
 … 61.(a) Any dispute or difference of any nature
 whatsoever, any claim, cross-claim, counter-claim or
 set-off or regarding any right, liability, act, omission or Arbitration
 account of any of the parties hereto arising out of or in
 relation to this agreement shall be referred to the
 sole arbitration of the Director (Marketing) of the
 Corporation who may either himself act as the
 Arbitrator or nominate some other officer of the
 Corporation to act as the Arbitrator. The Dealer
 will not be entitled to raise any objection to any such
 Arbitrator on the ground that the Arbitrator is an Officer
 of the Corporation.” 9. There can be no dispute that the Lease Agreement and

Dealership Agreement are distinct agreements independent of each

other. This is evident from the terms and conditions of the respective

agreements. While the lease agreement was for a fixed period of 29

years from 15th April 2005, after which the lease could be extended by

mutual agreement on mutually agreed terms and conditions, the

dealership agreement was for a period of 15 years from 15 th November

2006 and to continue thereafter for successive periods of one year

each, until determined by the other party. 10. Furthermore, the lease agreement specifically authorized the

Appellant to sublet, underlet, assign or transfer possession of the said

premises to any person. The lease agreement also reserved on the

Appellant the right to appoint, remove, reappoint, change or substitute

any dealers, agents, licensees or other authorized representatives of 10 the Appellant on and in respect of the said premises, without the

consent of the lessor, that is, the Respondent. 11. The dealership agreement was inherently terminable whereas

the lease agreement as stated above was for a fixed period of 29 years

from the date of execution thereof. Clause 3(b) of the lease agreement

specifically provided that, on the lessee paying the rent as per the

lease agreement and performing its conditions, it would be entitled to

peaceably hold and enjoy the said premises without any interruption

by the lessor/s or any person claiming through the lessor/s. 12. Distinctness of the dealership agreement from the lease

agreement is also apparent from the obligation imposed by the

dealership agreement on the Respondent to pay a licence fee for use

of the said premises demised by the Respondent to the Appellant. 13. While the lease agreement provided for reference of disputes to

the Managing Director of the Appellant for arbitration and if the

Managing Director was unable or unwilling to act as a sole Arbitrator,

then the sole arbitration of any other person designated or nominated

by the Managing Director, the dealership agreement provided for

reference of disputes to the sole arbitration of the Director (Marketing)

of the Corporation who might either himself act as the Arbitrator or

nominate some other officer of the Corporation to act as the Arbitrator. 14. The lease agreement expressly provided that disputes under the

said agreement were not to be referred to any person other than the

Managing Director of the Appellant, and if for any reason that was not 11 possible, the matter was not to be referred to arbitration at all. On the

other hand, as stated above, disputes under the dealership agreement

were referable to the Director (Marketing) of the Appellant who was

debarred from entertaining any reference of dispute under the lease

agreement. 15. The learned Additional Solicitor General, Ms. Madhavi Diwan,

appearing on behalf of the Appellant referred to a judgment of this

Court in Rahul Yadav and Another v. Indian Oil Corporation

Limited and others1, where this Court clearly held that a dealership

agreement by which the lessor of a land was appointed a dealer was

distinct and independent from the lease agreement by which the land

on which the outlet was installed, had been demised to the Appellant. 16. In Rahul Yadav v. Indian Oil Corporation (supra), this Court

held:- In case there is a termination, dealership is bound to be
 cancelled and at that juncture, if the lease deed is
 treated to have been terminated along with the
 dealership, it will lead to a situation which does not flow
 from the interpretation of the instruments. The
 dealership agreement has been terminated because of
 the decision rendered by this Court in Mukund Swarup
 Mishra [(2007) 2 SCC 536]. The consequence of
 cancellation of the dealership is a sequitur of the
 judgment. The inevitable consequence of that is that
 the appellant has to vacate the premises and the
 Corporation has the liberty to operate either
 independently or through another dealer. The appellant
 cannot be allowed to cause obstruction or create an
 impediment. The submission that the appellant entered
 into the lease agreement at a monthly rent of Rs
 10,000 as it was given the dealership is a mercurial
 plea, only to be noted to be rejected. The dealership
 was availed of as has been held by this Court in an
 inapposite manner. In such a situation, consequences
 are to be faced by the appellant.” 17. It appears that during a routine inspection on 17 th April 2008

certain irregularities were noticed with regard to functioning of the

retail outlet of which the Respondent had been appointed dealer. 18. By a letter dated 17th April 2008, the Appellant directed the

Respondent not to carry on further sales from the said outlet. Thereafter, a notice dated 18th April 2008 was issued to the

Respondent calling upon the Respondent to show cause why action

should not be taken against the Respondent for irregularities which

amounted to violation of the Marketing Discipline Guidelines (MDG)

2005 issued by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government

of India and Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies. 19. The Appellant also suspended the sale and supplies to the retail

outlet run by the Respondent. By a letter dated 21 st April 2008, the

Respondent replied to the show cause notice admitting the

irregularities alleged. 20. By a letter dated 20th August 2008, the Appellant terminated the

dealership of the Respondent, called upon the Respondent to vacate

the retail outlet and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the

Appellant and also to settle accounts with the Appellant. 21. The Respondent appealed to the Appellate Authority of the

Appellant against the order of termination dated 20 th August 2008. By

an order dated 17th July 2009, the Appellate Authority of the Appellant

dismissed the appeal of the Respondent. 22. By a letter dated 24th August 2009, the Respondent invoked the

arbitration clause in the dealership agreement and requested the

Director (Marketing) of the Appellant to appoint an Arbitrator. 23. The Director (Marketing) of the Appellant appointed Mr. B.L

Parihar as Arbitrator in terms of the dealership agreement, by an order

dated 9th November 2009. 24. The Respondent filed its Statement of Claims before the learned

Arbitrator challenging the order of termination of the dealership

agreement. In addition to the prayer for setting aside of the order of

termination of the dealership agreement and the prayer for damages,

the Respondent made an alternative prayer for amendment of the

lease agreement to enhance the monthly rent of the said premises to

Rs.35,000/- with a 20% increase after every three years. 25. The Appellant filed its Written Statement to the Statement of

Claim. In its Written Statement, the Appellant contended: - with interest at the rate of 15% per annum from the date of
 filing the claim till the payment by the Claimant. Without
 challenging the registered Lease Deed executed by the
 Claimant the Claimant cannot seek Order of the Hon’ble
 Arbitrator to modify the terms of the Lease Deed.
 Therefore the alternative prayers of the Claimant are
 also be liable to be rejected in toto. 26. The main issues which arose for determination before the

learned Arbitrator were:- 27. The learned Arbitrator made and published an award dated

04.11.2010 holding :- FINDINGS AS TO ISSUE NO.5
 I find that the Claimant has made investment of Rs.45,28,000/-
 whereas the Respondent has also made investment of
 Rs.57,00,000/- for construction of Retail Outlet and allied
 expenditures. The Claimant has committed the serious
 irregularities which are not at all permitted as per the said
 Dealership agreement & MDG and provision penalties are also
 made thereof, which has caused the serious loss of goodwill
 and reputation to the Respondent Company. Due to the
 serious irregularities, the Claimant’s dealership was
 terminated. The Claimant therefore is not entitled for sum of
 Rs.45,28,000/- and interest thereon. The Claimant had raised an Appeal before Executive Director
 (Retail Sales) of the Respondent to revoke the termination of
 Dealership on humanitarian ground since lease rent of the land
 is too low to survive. The Claimant submitted that the
 Claimant offered and agreed to let out his Land on Long Lease
 for monthly rent of Rs.1,750/- only because the Respondent
 agreed to allot the dealership of petrol pump as his plot of land
 and the monthly income from the said dealership was assured.
 I have perused the Government Valuation Report of the
 Land of the Claimant (Exhibit “O”) and instance of one 17 Mr. Bajirao Jadhav relied upon the Claimant (Exhibit
 “P”) to prove the market rate of the vicinity of the Land
 of the Claimant. Both the documents are registered
 documents. The Lease Agreements executed by Mr.
 Bajirao Jadhav and the Claimant are altogether
 different with different terms and conditions and negotiations
 between the parties. The Claimant and Respondent are bound
 by terms and conditions of Lease Agreement dated 20.09.2005
 and this Arbitral Tribunal cannot go beyond the Lease
 Agreement dated 20.09.2005 have provided and determined
 the rates of rent and increases in the rent and the same are
 binding upon the parties. I find that since the Dealership of
 petrol pump is already terminated there shall be no income of
 the dealership to the claimant other than the lease rent which
 is too low to survive and claimant had agreed to let out his
 Land on Long Lease for monthly rent of Rs.1,750/- only
 because the Respondent agreed to allot the dealership of
 petrol pump as his plot of land therefore the Claimant is
 entitled to get some reasonable increase in the monthly lease
 rent of the said land for survival but increase not to the tune of
 Rs.35000/- from Rs.1750/- as submitted by the Claimant. Award 1. The Termination of dealership order dated 20.08.2008 is
 valid, legal and binding upon the Claimant and the
 Respondent. The Claimant is not entitled for restoration of
 dealership. 2. The claimant is not entitled, for claim of Rs.45,28,000/- and
 interest thereon. 3. The monthly lease rent of the said land to be increased from
 Rs.1750/- to Rs.10000/- with 10% increase after every three
 years w.e.f. the date of the termination of the dealership and
 period of lease deed to be kept as per period mentioned in the
 advertisement published in the News Paper on 6.7.2005.
 With the above award, I have concluded the arbitration
 proceedings and published this award on 4.11.2010.” 28. The Appellant filed an application being Civil Misc. Application

No. 115 of 2011 under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation

Act, 1996, hereinafter referred to as “the 1996 Act” for setting aside of 18 the said award in the Court of the District Judge, Pune. The

Respondent filed its cross objection to the impugned award and also

filed a counter claim in the Court of the District Judge, Pune. 29. The counter claim filed by the Respondent was apparently

misconceived. There could be no question of any counter claim to an

application for setting aside of an award. 30. Section 5 of the 1996 Act provides that notwithstanding anything

contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters

governed by Part I of the 1996 Act, no judicial authority shall intervene

except where so provided in Part I. 31. Section 34 in Part I of the 1996 Act as it is stood at the material

time provided as follows: [Explanation 1.—For the avoidance of any doubt, it is clarified
 that an award is in conflict with the public policy of India, only
 if,— (i) the making of the award was induced or affected by fraud
 or corruption or was in violation of Section 75 or Section
 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian
 law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of morality or
 justice. Explanation 2.—For the avoidance of doubt, the test as to
 whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy
 of Indian law shall not entail a review on the merits of the
 dispute.]
 [(2-A) An arbitral award arising out of arbitrations other than
international commercial arbitrations, may also be set aside by the
Court, if the court finds that the award is vitiated by patent illegality
appearing on the face of the award: 32. As observed above, the lease agreement and the dealership

agreement are distinct agreements, independent of each other. Disputes under the lease agreement were referrable to the arbitration 20 of the Managing Director of the Appellant who was to be the sole

Arbitrator, and only if the Managing Director was unable or unwilling to

act as sole Arbitrator the disputes were to be referred to the sole

Arbitrator designated or nominated by the Managing Director in his

place. If the disputes could not be referred to the Managing Director

for any reason, the matter was not to be referred to arbitration at all. 33. In the instant case, the Respondent invoked the Arbitration

Clause under the Dealership Agreement and approached the Director

(Marketing) of the Appellant who appointed Mr. B.L. Parihar as the sole

Arbitrator. The Arbitrator, Mr. B.L. Parihar, nominated by the Director

(Marketing) of the Appellant had no authority and/or jurisdiction to

adjudicate any dispute pertaining to the lease agreement. 34. The Arbitral Award is liable to be set aside in so far as the same

deals with disputes with regard to the Lease Agreement which are not

contemplated by the Arbitration Clause in the dealership agreement

and/or in other words, do not fall within the terms of the submission to

Arbitration. The Arbitral award is thus liable to be set aside under

Section 34(2)(a)(iv) of the 1996 Act. The decision enhancing the lease

rent is patently beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration. Moreover, the composition of the Arbitral Tribunal or the arbitral

procedure was not in accordance with the lease agreement dated 20 th

September, 2005. 35. By a judgment and order dated 29 th January 2013, the District

Judge-3, Pune allowed the Counter Objection of the Respondent to the 21 award in part and modified the award by deleting the last clause, that

is, “and the period of Lease Deed to be kept as per the period

mentioned in the advertisement published in the newspapers on

6.7.2005” with the observation that the term of agreement if wholly

prejudicial or capable of causing grave injustice to one of the parties,

could certainly be overlooked not only by Court of Justice, but also by

the Arbitrator. The District Judge held that the learned Arbitrator had

rightly enhanced the rent to Rs. 10,000/- with 10% increase after every

three years. However, the learned Court held that it was not within

the province of the Arbitrator to decrease the lease period to 19 years

and 11 months as per the advertisement given in the newspapers. 36. Both the Respondent and Appellant appealed to the Bombay

High Court under Section 37 of the 1996 Act challenging the judgment

and order of the District Judge-3, Pune. 37. By a judgment and order dated 11 th September 2015, the High

Court partly allowed the Arbitration Appeal No.19 of 2013 filed by the

Respondent and dismissed Arbitration Appeal No.39 of 2013 filed by

the Appellant observing that there was no scope for the District Court

to interfere with the impugned award. The High Court held:- 38. In the High Court, learned senior counsel appearing for the

Appellant had submitted that adjudication of the dispute under the

lease agreement was beyond the jurisdiction of the learned Arbitrator. It was pointed out that the lease agreement provided for a specified

Arbitrator that is the Managing Director of the Appellant or any other

person designated or nominated by the Managing Director. The

Arbitrator in the instant case, Mr. B.L. Parihar, had been appointed

pursuant to the Dealership Agreement by the Director (Marketing) of

the Appellant. The High Court rejected the aforesaid contention with

the observation:- 39. In so far as disputes with regard to lease rent and/or any other

conditions of the deed of lease were concerned, the High Court

proceeded on the patently erroneous basis that the Appellant had not

objected to the competence or the authority or jurisdiction of the 23 learned Arbitrator to entertain and decide disputes with regard to lease

agreement, ignoring the specific averments made by the Appellant in

its counter statement, which have been extracted hereinabove. 40. In its counter statement, the Appellant had specifically averred

that the alternate prayer of the Respondent claiming increase in lease

rent to Rs.35,000/- per month with 20% increase in every three years

was outside the ambit of the arbitration proceedings. The Appellant

also asserted categorically that, without challenging the registered

lease deed executed by it, the Respondent could not seek an order of

the Arbitrator, modifying the terms of the lease deed. 41. The High Court also apparently overlooked the fact that the

jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to increase the monthly lease rent

from Rs.1750/- per month to Rs.35,000/- per month was specifically in

issue before the learned Arbitrator (Issue No.6) as evident from the

impugned award. 42. As held by this Court in Associate Builders v. Delhi

Development Authority2 , cited by Mr. Prasenjit Keswani, learned

counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent, Section 34 in

conjunction with Section 5 of the 1996 Act makes it clear that an

arbitral award that is governed by Part I of the 1996 Act, can only be

set aside on grounds mentioned under Sections 34(2) and (3) of the

said Act and not otherwise. The Court considering an application for

setting aside an award, under Section 34 of the 1996 Act cannot look

2 (2015) 3 SCC 49 24 into the merits of the award except when the award is in conflict with

the public policy of India as provided in Section 34(2)(b)(ii) of the 1996

Act. 43. In Associate Builders (supra), this Court held that an award

could be said to against the public policy of India in, inter alia, the

following circumstances: - 44. An Arbitral Tribunal being a creature of contract, is bound to act

in terms of the contract under which it is constituted. An award can

be said to be patently illegal where the Arbitral Tribunal has failed to

act in terms of the contract or has ignored the specific terms of a

contract. 45. However, a distinction has to be drawn between failure to act in

terms of a contract and an erroneous interpretation of the terms of a

contract. An Arbitral Tribunal is entitled to interpret the terms and 25 conditions of a contract, while adjudicating a dispute. An error in

interpretation of a contract in a case where there is valid and lawful

submission of arbitral disputes to an Arbitral Tribunal is an error within

jurisdiction. 46. The Court does not sit in appeal over the award made by an

Arbitral Tribunal. The Court does not ordinarily interfere with

interpretation made by the Arbitral Tribunal of a contractual provision,

unless such interpretation is patently unreasonable or perverse. Where a contractual provision is ambiguous or is capable of being

interpreted in more ways than one, the Court cannot interfere with the

arbitral award, only because the Court is of the opinion that another

possible interpretation would have been a better one. 47. In Associate Builders (supra), this Court held that an award

ignoring the terms of a contract would not be in public interest. In the

instant case, the award in respect of the lease rent and the lease term

is in patent disregard of the terms and conditions of the lease

agreement and thus against public policy. Furthermore, in Associate

Builders (supra) the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to adjudicate a

dispute itself was not in issue. The Court was dealing with the

circumstances in which a Court could look into the merits of an award. 48. In this case, as observed above, the impugned award insofar as

it pertains to lease rent and lease period is patently beyond the scope

of the competence of the Arbitrator appointed in terms of the

dealership agreement by the Director (Marketing) of the Appellant. 49. The lease agreement which was in force for a period of 29 years

with effect from 15th April, 2005 specifically provided for monthly lease

rent of Rs.1750 per month for the said plot of land on which the retail

outlet had been set up. It is well settled that an Arbitral Tribunal, or for

that matter, the Court cannot alter the terms and conditions of a valid

contract executed between the parties with their eyes open. 50. In Ssangyong Engineering and Construction Company

Limited v. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI ) 3, this

Court held: Under no circumstance can any court interfere with an arbitral
 award on the ground that justice has not been done in the
 opinion of the Court. That would be an entry into the merits of
 the dispute which, as we have seen, is contrary to the ethos of
 Section 34 of the 1996 Act, as has been noted earlier in this
 judgment.” 51. In PSA SICAL Terminals Pvt. Ltd. v. Board of Trustees of

V.O. Chidambranar Port Trust Tuticorin and Others4 this Court

referred to and relied upon SSangyong Engineering and

Construction Company Limited (supra) and held: 52. In PSA SICAL Terminals Pvt. Ltd. (supra) this Court clearly

held that the role of the Arbitrator was to arbitrate within the terms of

the contract. He had no power apart from what the parties had given

him under the contract. If he has travelled beyond the contract, he

would be acting without jurisdiction. 53. In PSA SICAL Terminals Pvt. Ltd. (supra) this Court referred

to and relied upon the earlier judgment of this Court in MD. Army

4 . (2021) SCC Online SC 508 28 Welfare Housing Organization v. Sumangal Service (P) Ltd. 5 and

held that an Arbitral Tribunal is not a court of law. It cannot exercise its

power ex debito justitiae. 54. In Satyanarayana Construction Company v. Union of India

and Others6 , a Bench of this Court of coordinate strength held that

once a rate had been fixed in a contract, it was not open to the

Arbitrator to rewrite the terms of the contract and award a higher rate. Where an Arbitrator had in effect rewritten the contract and awarded a

rate, higher than that agreed in the contract, the High Court was held

not to commit any error in setting aside the award. 55. There can be no dispute with the proposition of law enunciated

by this Court in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation

Limited and Another v. Brojo Nath Ganguly and Another 7, cited

by Mr. Keswani. The judgment, however, has no application in this

case. 56. In Brojo Nath Ganguly (supra), this Court held that a term in a

contract of employment as also service rules of a Government

company providing for termination of services of permanent

employees without assigning reasons, on three months’ notice, or pay

in lieu thereof was unconscionable, arbitrary and opposed to public

policy. This Court was not concerned with any lease agreement or any

dealership agreement in the aforesaid case. 5 . (2004) 9 SCC 619
6 (2011) 15 SCC 101
7 (1986) 3 SCC 156 29 57. In this case, there is no finding by the Arbitral Tribunal that any

condition of the dealership agreement was unconscionable and the

Arbitral Tribunal has not interfered with termination of the dealership

agreement. 58. The Appellant and the Respondent entered into the lease

agreement in this case with their eyes open. The Respondent had the

option not to lease out its property to the Appellant. The situation of

an owner of property, executing a lease agreement in respect of his

property cannot be equated with a contract of employment executed

by and between an employee and a mighty employer, where the

employee has little option but to accept the terms and conditions

offered by the employer. 59. It is well settled that a judgment of a Court is precedent for the

issue of law which is raised and decided. Words and phrases used in a

judgment cannot be read in isolation, out of context. To quote the

distinguished author V. Sudhish Pai “Judgments and observations in

judgments are not to be read as Euclid’s theorems or as provisions of

statute. Judicial utterances/pronouncements are in the setting of the

facts of a particular case. To interpret words and provisions of a

statute it may become necessary for judges to embark upon lengthy

discussions, but such discussion is meant to explain not define. Judges interpret statutes, their words are not be interpreted as

statutes. Thus, precedents are not to be read as statutes.”8

8 . Constitutional Supremacy-A Revisit, Essays on Constitutionalism, Rule of
Law & Constitutional Adjudication by Mr. V. Sudhish Pai 30 60. For the reasons discussed above, the appeal is allowed. The

impugned judgment of High Court is set aside. The impugned

judgment of the District Court insofar as the same pertains to lease

rent and lease period is also set aside. 61. The impugned award dated 04.11.2010 is set aside to the extent

that the Arbitrator has increased the monthly lease rent of the land in

question from Rs.1750/- to Rs.10000/- with 10% increase after every

three years w.e.f. the date of the termination of the dealership and to

the extent the Arbitrator has reduced the period of lease from 29 years

to 19 years and 11 months. .………………………………….J.
 [ INDIRA BANERJEE ]

 …………………………………..J.
 [ ABHAY S. OKA ]
NEW DELHI; FEBRUARY 01, 2022 31