Hon'ble Mr. V.N.Gaur, Member (A)

 The applicant was working as Assistant (Coordination) in

Bokaro Steel Plant (BSP) since 22.01.2008 when he was given

separation order by the Disciplinary Authority (DA) on

15/17.02.2014. His appeal against the separation order was also

rejected by the Appellate Authority (AA) the speaking order dated

22/25.03.2014. He has challenged these two orders in the

present OA. 2. The facts in brief are that in response to an advertisement

published in the Statesman, Delhi edition on 01.12.2007 for the 4

posts of Assistant (Coordination) and 6 posts of Attendant

(Coordination) foran upcoming steel processing unit of BSP, the 3 OA No.3511/2014 applicant applied for the post of Assistant (Coordination). In the

advertisement it was mentioned that the posts were on casual

basis but likely to be regularised in S-III and S-I grades

respectively, after a minimum period of one year. The applicant

fulfilled the eligibility conditions mentioned in the advertisement

of possessing a graduation degree and one year's experience in

liaison work. On the basis of an interview the applicant was

selected for the post and he reported for duty to BSP on

22.01.2008. Later the Central Vigilance Commission received

complaints about these appointments, which were forwarded to

the Steel Authority of India (SAIL) for further action. After

investigation the BSP management found that the aforesaid

recruitments were made without following the procedure laid

down by the Company for such recruitments. The applicant and 8

others, who were selected in similar manner, were chargesheeted.

The applicant submitted his reply on 11.01.2012 to the

chargesheet dated 04.01.2012 denying all the charges against

him. Not satisfied with the reply, the DA constituted an Enquiry

Committee which gave its report with a finding that out of three

charges only charge no. 2 was proved and other two were not. The

DA did not agree with the findings regarding charge no.1 & 3 and

gave a final notice to the applicant on 07.02.2014 along with a

copy of enquiry report. The applicant submitted his

representation on 14.02.2014. The competent authority after 4 OA No.3511/2014 considering the representation and other relevant documents on

record passed the impugned order dated 15/17.02.2014 imposing

the penalty of dismissal on the applicant. The applicant submitted

an appeal on 08.03.2014 to the AA but that was also rejected vide

order dated 22/25.03.2014. 3. The applicant has challenged these orders on the following

grounds:- Similarly, there was no evidence to prove that the applicant

 adopted fraudulent means for manipulating favouritism to 5 OA No.3511/2014 some pre-selected candidates. The charges levelled against

the applicant were vague. Charges against him pertained to

a period when he was not an employee of the respondents,

and therefore, the charges have no legal basis. (v) The advertisement for recruitment was issued in the

year 2007 in accordance with the procedure followed at that

time, while the management witness during the enquiry

referred to the procedure after some changes were effected in

the year 2011. (vi) The allegation that his application did not bear any

date was answered by MW-1 stating that it was nothing but

a human error. (vii) His application did not bear the postal stamp as well as

the stamp of post office because he had personally placed

the application in the box at the office of the newspaper. (viii) The allegation that qualification criteria was liberal in

nature does not have any basis as the applicant has worked

for 6 years in the post of Assistant (Coordination) to the

satisfaction of the management. (ix) It was also not true that 15 days' time given for

submission of the application was not according to the

provision of the Recruitment Manual of BSP, as the

Recruitment Manual to which a reference has been made is

actually for the post of executive while the post in question 6 OA No.3511/2014 is a non-executive post. Even for the executive post the

 provision is that "generally" one month time has to be given

 for receipt of application, thus, the one month time is also

 not mandatory. (x) The management has produced only one witness who

 joined the recruitment department in 2009 whereas the

 recruitment in question was initiated in the year 2007.

 Therefore, his evidence is not relevant. The penalty of

 dismissal imposed on the applicant is shockingly

 disproportionate. 4. The learned counsel for the applicant submitted that the

respondents have falsely set up a case under the influence of the

Vigilance Department and penalised the applicant who was

appointed to the post of Assistant (Coordination) through a valid

recruitment process. According to him, there was nothing wrong

in publishing the advertisement in the Statesman, New Delhi

because it was a national newspaper having a wide reach. He

also pointed out that the applicant in order to avoid any postal

delay, after obtaining the required bank draft to be attached with

the application, personally went to the office of the newspaper and

dropped the application in the appropriate box. Therefore, the

question of any postal stamp or date stamp did not arise. The

applicant was assessed through an interview and only thereafter

he was given the appointment letter. After joining at the place of 7 OA No.3511/2014 posting, the applicant has been serving the respondents with full

devotion to his duty and there has been no cause for any

complaint. Therefore, raising the controversy of inappropriate

qualification was not based on any logic. The management had

sent a requisition to the employment exchange before advertising

the post in the newspaper. However, the recruitment procedure

does not mention any mandatory 'No Objection Certificate' from

employment exchange before going for advertisement. According

to learned counsel even if there was any procedural irregularity it

was an internal matter of the management and there is nothing

that has been placed on record during the enquiry to show that

the applicant was in any manner involved in the irregularities if

any, with a view to manage his appointment. The order passed by

the DA and AA therefore deserves to be set aside. 5. Learned counsel for the respondents refuted the contentions

of learned counsel for the applicant and submitted that after a

detailed enquiry by the vigilance it was found that there was

collusion between the applicant and other candidates, and some

people in the management that led to manipulation of the entire

recruitment process. According to the learned counsel, the

management had sent a notification to the employment exchange

but without even waiting for a reply, they went ahead and

published the advertisement, that also in a national newspaper

when place of posting was at Bokaro. It clearly shows that the 8 OA No.3511/2014 intention was to limit the applications only to those who were pre-

selected. The advertisement in the Statesman was published in

the classified column with the heading 'Situation Vacant' and

without giving the name of the employer, the candidates were give

only 15 days' time for applyingthrough post. In response only 9

applications were received against 10 vacancies, and all the 9

persons were selected. The entire sequence of events clearly

shows a conspiracy by the candidates and some employees of the

company with a view to secure employment through fraudulent

means. According to learned counsel, the applicant cannot be

allowed to enjoy the fruits of an appointment secured through

illegal means. He relied on the following judgments of Hon'ble

Supreme Court: 6. Learned counsel for the respondents further submitted that

some of the candidates, who were appointed through the same

recruitment process as the applicant, were dismissed by the 9 OA No.3511/2014 management in a similar manner. They had approached the

Ranchi Bench of the Tribunal challenging the orders passed by

the respondents and these OAs. 146/2014, 147/2014, 148/2014,

151/2014, 153/2014, 158/2015 were dismissed on 22.04.2015

and OAs 152/2014, 157/2014 on 08.05.2015. 7. In the rejoinder the applicant has reiterated that he was

appointed on casual basis by a due process of recruitment and

confirmed after successfully completing the probation, and that

he had served the company for about 6 years without any

complaint from any side. It was further submitted that one of the

officers involved in the appointment of the applicant and other

candidates, namely Sh. Hemrom, had been let off with a

punishment of withholding of one year increment and later,

according to his information, he was given promotion as DGM.

This fact clearly shows that the respondents actually believe that

there was no serious irregularity in the recruitment process

through which the applicant and some others were appointed. It

was also stated that the Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment in

Uma Devi (supra), Lalit Kumar Verma (supra) and R. Valasina

Babu (supra) cited by the respondents are not relevant to this

case because his appointment was on casual basis and was not a

regular appointment. He was appointed through a procedure in

accordance with the recruitment rules and the manual of a

company. 8. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and

perused the record. A perusal of the sequence of undisputed

events leading to the appointment of the applicant would give an

impression of too many coincidences taking place right from the

beginning. Let us consider this. The management sent a

requisition to the employment exchange in accordance with

clause 3.4.1 of Recruitment Manual, which,as reproduced in the

counter filed by respondent nos.2 to 7, reads as follows: 9. In the rejoinder the applicant has not questioned the

applicability of the above clause to the process initiated in 2007

leading to his recruitment. He has taken a plea that since this is

not discussed in the inquiry report, it cannot be relied upon by

the respondents. The records, however, show that the issue of fast

tracking of advertisement without NOC from Employment

Exchange is a part of the charge sheet; it is part of the brief of the 11 OA No.3511/2014 Presenting Officer, and has been discussed in the Enquiry Report.

There is a clear provision in the above clause that after expiry of

15 days, if no list has been received from the Employment

Exchange,a non-availability certificate has to be obtained from the

Employment Exchange before advertising the post in the

newspaper. In the present case the notification was sent to the

Employment Exchange, New Delhi on 27.11.2007 and without

waiting for 15 days, and obtaining non-availability certificate, the

vacancies were advertised in the Statesman, New Delhi edition on

01.12.2007 that too in a classified column with the heading

'Situation Vacant'. The name of the company was also not

revealed. 10. According to the instruction given in the Advertisement, the

"interested candidates should post their resume (along with

testimonials) to reach Box 9389, Statesman, New Delhi - 110001,

on or before 15-12-2007..."(emphasis supplied). The applicant

however, did not send the application through the normal 'post'

but claims that he had personally dropped the application in the

box kept in the newspaper office. It is also a coincidence that he

forgot to put date on the application. Again it so happens that for

10 posts only 9 applications were received and all of them are

found suitable. 11. It is obvious that the above stated scenario is not believable.

Notwithstanding that, the respondents have gone through the

process of disciplinary action in a manner that meets the

requirement of the rules and the principles of natural justice. The

applicant was chargesheeted after considering his representation.

Enquiry was conducted following the laid down procedure. The

applicant has alleged that the EO did not consider the evidence in

support of the applicant. A perusal of the Enquiry Report does not

lend credence to this contention of the applicant. The

respondents did not agree with the finding of the enquiry officer

about the finding on the charges no.1 & 3, and gave a

disagreement note along with the enquiry report to the applicant.

After considering his reply, the DA has passed the order imposing

the penalty of dismissal on the applicant. The AA has also

considered his appeal and has rejected the same. In these orders

DA and AA have considered the pleas of the applicant and it

cannot be said that there was no application of mind. The plea of

'no evidence' is also misplaced as there is sufficient evidence, as

discussed above, to prove that the whole process of recruitment

was tailored to recruit the applicant and other candidates, who

alone could apply for the post. The applicant has no right to

continue in the service when his recruitment was done through a

legally invalid process. It has also been argued by the learned

counsel that the applicant was not an employee when the alleged 13 OA No.3511/2014 irregularities were committed and therefore he cannot be held

liable for the same. This argument has no substance since his

employment is a consequence of the manipulation of the

recruitment process for which there is sufficient evidence.

Further, on the day of imposing penalty the applicant was an

employee of the Company and the DA was competent to take

action against him. 12. The judgments cited by the learned counsel for the

respondents namely, Uma Devi, Lalit Kumar Verma, R. Valasina

Babu, Staya Prakash and Pankaj Gupta (all supra) have the

common strand of law that a person cannot be allowed to benefit

from an illegal appointment. In the present case it has been

established that the process of recruitment of the applicant was in

violation of the prescribed procedure, and thereby denying equal

opportunity to all other candidates who were eligible but could

not apply for the lack of proper publicity etc. The applicant

therefore cannot be allowed to enjoy the fruits of an illegal

appointment. 13. The applicant has relied on the judgments in Raj Kumar

Singh vs. State of Rajasthan , (2013) 5 SCC 722, Ranjit Thakur

vs. Union of India, (1987) 4 SCC 611, Council of Civil Service

Unions vs. Minister for the Civil Service, (1984) 3 WLR 1174

(HL), which are not relevant in this case as the applicant has not 14 OA No.3511/2014 been able to establish that he was penalised on the basis of

suspicion alone, or that it was a case of disproportionate

punishment. 14. It is trite that in a disciplinary matter the scope for

intervention by the Tribunal is very limited as has been laid down

by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in B.C.Chaturvedi vs. Union of

India , (1995) 6 SCC 749 and the Hon'ble Delhi High Court of

Delhi in Ram Chander and ors. Vs. Union of India and ors.,

WPC no.6632/2011. The Tribunal has to confine itself to the

enquiry whether the authorities have complied with the statutory

processes and the delinquent had been given full opportunity to

defend himself. 15. In an identical matter the circuit bench of this Tribunal's

Patna Bench at Ranchi in the order dated 22.04.2015 inOA

No.158/2014 and other similar cases quoted in para 6 above has

taken the following view: 16. Considering the facts of the present case, the grounds taken,

the arguments presented by both sides and the law, we come to

the conclusion that the whole process of the recruitment of the

applicant smacks of gross irregularities as established in the 16 OA No.3511/2014 departmental enquiry and the applicant has no right to continue

in the post to which he was appointed by the respondent-BSP.. 17. In the light of the above, we find the present OA devoid of

merit and the same is dismissed. No costs.