What’s the news: Another Sunday goes by and another Indian state faces an internet shutdown by the government. Assam government on August 21 suspended the internet of some districts, reportedly for ‘conducting recruitment exams’ for government jobs. While mobile internet services were non-functional for four hours in these regions, the same may happen again on August 28, the next phase of the examination.

Assam’s Nagaon MP Pradyut Bordoloi wrote to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa on Sunday about his concerns over the government suspending internet services in light of recruitment examinations for Grade III and Grade IV posts. According to NDTV , candidates will appear to fill 27,000 vacancies in various government departments. However, Bordoloi pointed out that cutting off the internet of entire districts only to ensure ‘no-cheating conditions’ violates the country’s rules and judicial directives regarding internet suspension.

Why it matters: Independent reports and Parliamentarians alike have voiced concern about the upward trend of internet suspensions in India. Two weeks ago, similar suspensions occurred in Manipur and Kashmir . Usually, government authorities term the move as a “security measure” to justify the sudden loss of service. This time, the Assam government has not given such a reason but instead used an excuse that was previously criticised by the Calcutta High Court .

What does the Calcutta High Court say? Petitioner Ashlesh Biradar in March 2022 approached the West Bengal High Court challenging a government move to suspend internet services “to control cheating in the Madhyamaik Examinations.” He pointed out that such an order affects bank to bank payments, online clearance and other business activities through internet and even online teaching classes. As such he argued that the move infringed upon the constitutional right of the general public and did not “satisfy the test of proportionality.”

Biradar argued that the government can take other measures to prevent cheating especially considering that the reason mentioned in the order did not satisfy the requirement of Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act. He further cited the Anuradha Bhasin vs the Union of India and others Supreme Court judgement that said the reasoning of such an order should indicate unavoidable circumstances.

Acknowledging these arguments, the court stayed the order of internet suspension. In July, the court disposed the matter by saying, “The Rule of 2017 are required to be complied with and the Supreme Court has already laid down the law which is binding under Article 141 of the Constitution, hence, we express hope that while issuing any such order in future, the State authorities will duly comply with the same.”

According to the Internet Freedom Foundation , this was an important judgement by the High Court because it would be useful when persuading states to follow the law on internet suspension.

Bordoloi demands accountability: Citing these reasons in his letter, Bordoloi urged the state government to place formal notifications regarding such decisions in the public domain so that citizens do not have to rely on “speculative media reports.”

He pointed out that governments can make such a move only in case of “occurrence of a public emergency or in the interest of public safety” which was further defined in the aforementioned Supreme Court judgement.

“In light of the growing frequency and over-reliance on internet shutdowns in India, which currently sees the highest numbers of internet shutdowns in the world, it is crucial to reiterate the disproportionate nature of this measure and its impact on right to speech, right to livelihood, access to information, education and health,” he said.

My letter to @himantabiswa @CMOfficeAssam regarding the suspension of internet services in Assam on grounds of conducting recruitment exams 👇 Cc: @AshwiniVaishnaw @internetfreedom @SFLCin pic.twitter.com/NJrcdHhNzB

— Pradyut Bordoloi (@pradyutbordoloi) August 21, 2022

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event