1. The petitioner is a fair price shop dealer of Gram Panchayat Shadi Bankat, Block-City, District-Mirzapur. The fair price shop dealership of the petitioner was suspended by order dated 16.03.2018 and a show cause notice was issued by the self same order. 2. The petitioner has assailed the composite order of suspension/show cause notice dated 14.03.2018 in the instant writ petition. 3. The submission of Sri Kailash Singh Kushwaha, learned counsel assisted by Sri Sanjay Kushwaha, learned counsel for the petitioner is that the respondent authority which took out the order dated 16.03.2018 was not competent to do so. The order of suspension is passed by the authority in excess of jurisdiction vested by law. The jurisdiction of the respondents authorities to suspend the fair price shop licence of the petitioner and conduct any enquiry into malpractices stood ousted after the promulgation of The National Food Security Act, 2013 read with U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015. There is a head on collision and an irreconcilable conflict between The Uttar Pradesh Essential Commodities (Regulation of Sale and Distribution Control) Order, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as "Control Order 2016") promulgated in exercise of powers under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the National Food Security Act, 2013 . The National Food Security Act, 2013 shall prevail and consequently, the authorities in the Control Order 2016 stand superseded and the order is beyond jurisdiction. 4. Sri Siddharth Singh, learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel assisted by Sri S.R. Tripathi, learned Standing Counsel for the respondent-State submits that there is no conflict between The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Control Order 2016. The action taken by the respondent-authority is under the Control Order, 2016, read with the terms of the contract of fair price shop dealership awarded to the petitioner. Both the enactments namely, The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Control Order 2016 can be construed harmoniously and implemented simultaneously. 5. Heard learned counsel for the parties. 6. The facts of the case lie in a narrow campus. The show cause notice-cum suspension order was issued to the petitioner on 16.3.2018. The show cause notice records the commission of various malpractices in the distribution of essential commodities by the petitioner. The order dated 16.3.2018 asks the petitioner to tender his defence with regard to the charges of various malpractices and irregularities in the distribution of essential commodities enumerated in the order and to show cause as to why his contract be not cancelled. 7. The controversy at hand is essentially legal in nature. The legal issues which arise for consideration in this case can be defined thus: 8. The conflict of statutes has engaged the attention of courts for long. The line of authorities is consistent and the law is clear. The courts will not readily presume any conflict between two statutes. On the contrary, the presumption will be that the legislature was conscious of the preceding legislation in issue. The enquiry of the courts will examine, if the statutes, which are allegedly in conflict, can be implemented simultaneously and a head on collision can be avoided. A harmonious construction of the enactments will be preferred to an interpretation which creates a head on collision. However, if in spite of such exercise, the conflict becomes inevitable and the reconciliation of the statutory schemes becomes impossible, the court will decide which enactment has to yield. These principles of law shall now be fortified by judicial authorities on point. 9. The issue of conflict between the Sick Industrial Companies (Special provision) Act, 1985 and the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951 was considered in the case of Maharashtra Tubes Ltd. Vs. State Industrial & Investment Corporation of Maharashtra and another , reported at (1993) 2 SCC 144. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Maharashtra Tubes Ltd. (supra) first provided the direction and line of the enquiry to examine such issues. The Hon'ble Supreme Court exhaustively examined the objects and the scheme of both the enactments to determine the issue of a perceived conflict between the said statutes. After surveying the schemes of both the enactments, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Maharashtra Tubes Ltd. (supra) held thus: 10. A Full Bench of the Bombay High Court while examining a similar issue of inconsistency between the two enactments in the case of Shivram Dodanna Shetty Vs. Sharmila Shivram Shetty , reported at AIR 2017 Bom 1 (FB) laid down the law as follows: 11. Similarly, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bank of India Vs. Ketan Parekh and others , reported at (2008) 8 SCC 148, speaking to the issue of a purported conflict between the Special Court (Trial of Offence Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 and Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 , examined the purposes of the Acts to see whether both the Acts could be read harmoniously. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bank of India (supra) spoke as under: Therefore, this Act has a special task before it and that task has to be dealt with in the parameters laid down by this Act. 21. The Act of 1993 was of comparatively general in nature pertaining to recovery of debts due to the Banks and Financial Institutions. The idea was that all the suits pertaining to recoveries of Banks and Financial Institutions spreading over the Civil Courts and this has resulted into great strain on the Banks and Financial Institutions. Therefore, in order to meet that contingency this Act was promulgated. The preamble in this Act clearly reads as under : Therefore, the purpose of the Act of 1993 was to expedite the recovery of the debts due to the banks and financial institutions. 22. Incidentally, the purpose of both the Acts has separate area of operation. Application was filed by the Bank before the Debts Recovery Tribunal for recovery of its debts against the same person i.e. Ketan Parekh and temporary injunction was issued to disclose the assets and during the pendency of these Original Applications the jurisdiction of the Tribunal was challenged. Therefore, the issue came up specially before the High Court. The effect of Act of 1992 has special purpose and incidentally the subject matter appears to be the same under both the Acts but the Act of 1992 clearly lays down the specific purpose i.e. the scam which has taken place relating to the transactions in securities from 1.4.1991 to 6.6.1992 to deal with such scam only. Section 9-A which has come subsequently in the Act of 1992 i.e. on 25.1.1994 deals with the over-riding effect on the Act of 1993. Therefore, the Act of 1992 has the over-riding effect over the Act of 1993." 12. Finally, it was found in the Bank of India (supra) that in other areas both the enactments could be read harmoniously and no irreconcilable conflict arose between the two enactments. The Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: 13. The legal propositions distilled from judicial authorities in point in the preceding paragraphs in point in the preceding pragraphs shall structure and guide the line of enquiry in the succeeding paragraphs. 14. The discussion into the perceived conflict of the statutes shall be sequenced thus. The purpose and objects of the enactments shall be ascertained first. The respective schemes of the two enactments shall be examined next. Finally, the jurisdiction of the authorities to take out the order assailed in the writ petition shall be determined. Essential Commodities Act -Purpose and Intendment (Control Order-Purpose and Intendment)- 15. The U.P. Essential Commodities (Regulation of Sale and Distribution Control) Order, 2016, (hereinafter referred to as 'the Control Order 2016') was made in exercise of powers vested in the State Government by virtue of Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Essential Commodities Act 1955'). 16. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 was promulgated by the Parliament with the avowed object to provide in the interests of the general public, for the control of the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in certain commodities. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 is berthed in the IXth Schedule to the Constitution of India. By reason of the enactment being placed in the IXth Schedule of the Constitution, it is immune to challenge on the ground that its provisions violate the fundamental rights guaranteed by Part-III of the Constitution. The immunity so created in favour of the enactment shows the importance attached by the legislature to the enactment and the purpose it serves. Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 is a pivotal provision of the Act and relevant to the controversy, speaks thus: [(f) for requiring any person holding in stock, or engaged in the production, or in the business of buying or selling, of any essential commodity,-- Explanation 1 .--An order made under this clause in relation to food-grains, edible oilseeds or edible oils, may, having regard to the estimated production, in the concerned area, of such foodgrains, edible oilseeds and edible oils, fix the quantity to be sold by the producers in such area and may also fix, or provide for the fixation of, such quantity on a graded basis, having regard to the aggregate of the area held by, or under the cultivation of, the producers. Explanation 2. --For the purposes of this clause, "production" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions includes manufacture of edible oils and sugar; (g) for regulating or prohibiting any class of commercial or financial transactions relating to foodstuffs 1[***] which, in the opinion of the authority making the order, are, or, if unregulated, are likely to be, detrimental to the public interest; (h) for collecting any information or statistics with a view to regulating or prohibiting any of the aforesaid matters; (i) for requiring persons engaged in the production, supply or distribution of or trade and commerce in, any essential commodity to maintain and produce for inspection such books, accounts and records relating to their business and to furnish such information relating thereto, as may be specified in the order; [(ii) for the grant or issue of licences, permits or other documents, the charging of fees therefor, the deposit of such sum, if any, as may be specified in the order as security for the due performance of the conditions of any such licence, permit or other document, the forfeiture of the sum so deposited or any part thereof for contravention of any such conditions, and the adjudication of such forfeiture by such authority as may be specified in the order;]
 
[(j) for any incidental and supplementary matters, including, in particular, the entry, search or examination of premises, aircraft, vessels, vehicles or other conveyances and animals, and the seizure by a person authorised to make such entry, search or examination,-- (i) of any articles in respect of which such person has reason to believe that a contravention of the order has been, is being, or is about to be, committed and any packages, coverings or receptacles in which such articles are found; (ii) of any aircraft, vessel, vehicle or other conveyance or animal used in carrying such articles, if such person has reason to believe that such aircraft, vessel, vehicle or other conveyance or animal is liable to be forfeited under the provisions of this Act; (iii) of any books of accounts and documents which in the opinion of such person, may be useful for, or relevant to, any proceeding under this Act and the person from whose custody such books of accounts or documents are seized shall be entitled to make copies thereof or to take extracts therefrom in the presence of an officer having the custody of such books of accounts or documents. (3) Where any person sells any essential commodity in compliance with an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2), there shall be paid to him the price therefor as hereinafter provided-- (a) where the price can, consistently with the controlled price, if any, fixed under this section, be agreed upon, the agreed price; (b) where no such agreement can be reached, the price calculated with reference to the controlled price, if any; (c) where neither clause (a) nor clause (b) applies, the price calculated at the market rate prevailing in the locality at the date of sale. [(3A) (i) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary so to do for controlling the rise in prices, or preventing the hoarding, of any food-stuff in any locality, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), the price at which the food-stuff shall be sold in the locality in compliance with an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2) shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of this sub-section. (ii) Any notification issued under this sub-section shall remain in force for such period not exceeding three months as may be specified in the notification. (iii) Where, after the issue of a notification under this sub-section, any person sells foodstuff of the kind specified therein and in the locality so specified, in compliance with an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2), there shall be paid to the seller as the price therefor-- (a) where the price can, consistently with the controlled price of the foodstuff, if any, fixed under this section, be agreed upon, the agreed price; (b) where no such agreement can be reached, the price calculated with reference to the controlled price, if any; (c) where neither clause (a) nor clause (b) applies, the price calculated with reference to average market rate prevailing in the locality during the period of three months immediately preceding the date of the notification. (iv) For the purposes of sub-clause (c) of clause (iii), the average market rate prevailing in the locality shall be determined by an officer authorised by the Central Government in this behalf, with reference to the prevailing market rates for which published figures are available in respect of that locality or of a neighbouring locality; and the average market rate so determined shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court.]
 
[(3B) Where any person is required, by an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2), to sell to the Central Government or a State Government or to an officer or agent of such Government or to a Corporation owned or controlled by such Government, any grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils in relation to which no notification has been issued under sub-section (3A), or such notification having been issued, has ceased to be in force, there shall be paid to the person concerned, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-section (3), an amount equal to the procurement price of such foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils, as the case may be, specified by the State Government, with the previous approval of the Central Government having regard to-- (a) the controlled price, if any, fixed under this section or by or under any other law for the time being in force for such grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils; (b) the general crop prospects; (c) the need for making such grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils available at reasonable prices to the consumers, particularly the vulnerable sections of the consumers; and (d) the recommendations, if any, of the Agricultural Prices Commission with regard to the price of the concerned grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils. [(3C) Where any producer is required by an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2) to sell any kind of sugar (whether to the Central Government or a State Government or to an officer or agent of such Government or to any other person or class of persons) and either no notification in respect of such sugar has been issued under sub-section (3A) or any such notification, having been issued, has ceased to remain in force by efflux of time, then, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), there shall be paid to that producer an amount therefor which shall be calculated with reference to such price of sugar as the Central Government may, by order, determine, having regard to-- (a) the fair and remunerative price, if any, determined by he Central Government as the price of sugarcane to be taken into account under this section; (b) the manufacturing cost of sugar; (c) the duty or tax, if any, paid or payable thereon; and (d) a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing of sugar: Explanation. --For the purposes of sub-section (3D) and this sub-section,-- (a) "producer" means a person carrying on the business of manufacturing sugar; (b) "recognised dealer" means a person carrying on the business of purchasing, selling or distributing sugar; (c) "sugar" includes plantation white sugar, raw sugar and refined sugar, whether indigenously produced or imported. (4) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary so to do for maintaining or increasing the production and supply of an essential commodity, it may, by order, authorise any person (hereinafter referred to as an authorized controller) to exercise, with respect to the whole or any part of any such undertaking engaged in the production and supply of the commodity as may be specified in the order such functions of control as may be provided therein and so long as such order is in force with respect to any undertaking or part thereof,-- (a) the authorized controller shall exercise his functions in accordance with any instructions given to him by the Central Government, so, however, that he shall not have any power to give any direction inconsistent with the provisions of any enactment or any instrument determining the functions of the persons in-charge of the management of the undertaking, except in so far as may be specifically provided by the order; and (b) the undertaking or part shall be carried on in accordance with any directions given by the authorised controller under the provisions of the order, and any person having any functions of management in relation to the undertaking or part shall comply with any such directions. 12[***]
 
(5) An order made under this section shall,-- (a) in the case of an order of a general nature or affecting a class of persons, be notified in the Official Gazette; and (b) in the case of an order directed to a specified individual be served on such individual-- (i) by delivering or tendering it to that individual, or (ii) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered, by affixing it on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of the premises in which that individual lives, and a written report thereof shall be prepared and witnessed by two persons living in the neighbourhood. (6) Every order made under this section by the Central Government or by any officer or authority of the Central Government shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament, as soon as may be, after it is made." 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while interpreting the purpose and scope of Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, in Prag Ice and Oil Mills and another Vs. Union of India , reported at 1978 (3) SCC 459 stated: 18. The object of promulgating the U.P. Scheduled under the Uttar Pradesh Essential Commodities (Regulation of Sale and Distribution Control) Order, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Control Order, 2016) was created when the State Government formed the opinion that it was necessary and expedient to do so for maintaining the supply of foodgrains and other essential commodities and for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the U.P. Control Order, 2016 form the legal backbone of the public distribution system at large and the targeted public distribution system in particular. 19. At the dawn of independence the historical memories of repeated famines under foreign rule were still fresh in minds of the founding fathers. The advent of independence and the promulgation of the constitution did not wish away the problem of feeding the hungry millions in India. The magnitude of the problem humbled the conscience of the founding fathers, depth of the anguish steeled their resolved. Good intentions are not a substitute for farsighted legislation and efficient administration. 20. By bringing The National Food Security Act, 2013 into existence, one promise made to the hungry millions by the founding fathers was redeemed. The statements of objects and reasons of the bill on the back of which the National Food Security Act, 2013 was enacted is instructive and an eloquent exposition of the intention of the legislature. The same is being extracted hereunder: 21. The State Government considering the gravity of the legislation and the urgency of the situation it sought to address, by notification in the official gazette published in the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 to carry out the provisions of The National Food Security Act of 2013. The Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 were promulgated in exercise of powers conferred by Section 40 of the National Food Security Act, 2013. 22. A perusal of the aims and objects of the two sets of enactments namely, Control Order, 2016 on the one side and The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 on the other shows that the overarching purpose being served by both the sets of enactments is congruent. Both the sets of enactments seek to ensure food security for the most deprived sections of society. However, distinction between the two sets of enactment is at times apparent but also nuanced. The Control Order, 2016 covers the full field of the public distribution system, which includes the targeted public distribution system. 23. The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 vests rights in eligible persons to receive their entitlements under the said enactments. The entitlements are distributed through the targeted public distribution system. 24. At the conceptual level the aims and objects of the two enactments are complementary and not contradictory. It has to be seen after traversing the provisions of the said enactments and the scheme of the said legislations whether both the sets of enactments can co-habit the field and together serve the high legislative purpose or whether the enactments are in irreconcilable conflict where a head on collision is inevitable and one has to yield to the other. Beneficiaries, Rights and Entitlements & Identifications of beneficiaries 25. The defining feature of The National Food Security Act, 2013 is the rights created in favour of the beneficiary population and specific provisions for their entitlements. The second distinguishing aspect of The National Food Security Act, 2013 is the identification of the segments of the citizenry for whose benefit the enactment was created. 26. The provisions relevant to these features are detailed hereunder. Section 2 of The National Food Security Act, 2013 contains the definitions which are extracted hereunder: 27. Chapter II of The National Food Security Act, 2013 makes provisions for food security. The provisions create the rights to receive foodgrains at subsidised prices by persons belonging to eligible households under the targeted public distribution system. Nutrition support is assured to every pregnant woman and lactating mothers and also to children. Children, who are suffering from malnutrition, are to be specifically provided for by the State Government. The State Government is under obligation to implement the entitlements under Sections 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 of the Act. The relevant provisions of the Chapters II are reproduced below: Section 4 . Nutritional support to pregnant women and lactating mothers.--Subject to such schemes as may be framed by the Central Government, every pregnant woman and lactating mother shall be entitled to-- (a) meal, free of charge, during pregnancy and six months after the child birth, through the local anganwadi, so as to meet the nutritional standards specified in Schedule II; and (b) maternity benefit of not less than rupees six thousand, in such instalments as may be prescribed by the Central Government: 28. The identification of eligible households is provided for under Chapter 4 of The National Food Security Act, 2013 . The relevant provisions Chapter 4 are hereunder: Section 11 . Publication and display of list of eligible households.--The State Government shall place the list of the identified eligible households in the public domain and display it prominently." Chapter 6 empowers the women. The provisions of Chapter 6 are as follows: Chapter 12 makes provisions for advancement food security. PROVISIONS FOR ADVANCING FOOD SECURITY
 
" Section 30 . Food security for people living in remote, hilly and tribal areas.--The Central Government and the State Governments shall, while implementing the provisions of this Act and the schemes for meeting specified entitlements, give special focus to the needs of the vulnerable groups especially in remote areas and other areas which are difficult to access, hilly and tribal areas for ensuring their food security. Section 31 . Steps to further advance food and nutritional security.--The Central Government, the State Governments and local authorities shall, for the purpose of advancing food and nutritional security, strive to progressively realise the objectives specified in Schedule III. Section 32 under Chapter 13 is relevant: 29. The corresponding U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015 created by the State Government in regard to the rights, entitlements and identification of the eligible persons need to be considered. Rule 3 of the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 is extracted hereunder: in accordance with such guidelines including exclusion and inclusion criteria as may be notified by the State Government: 30. The scheme of the Control Order, 2016 would help to understand the combined operation of the enactments. The relevant provisions of the Control Order, 2016 for the purposes of discussion under the aforesaid head being Order 2(c)(d)(e)(m)(p)(r)(u)(2) and Order 3 are extracted below: Head of the family,
 
	Husband/wife, including legally adopted children,
 
	Adult children, who are fully dependent on the head of the family,
 
	Unmarried, legally separated and widow daughters, and 
 
	Fully dependent mother/Father of the head of the family; (r) " Food Security Act " means the National Food Security Act, 2013 (20 of 2013); (u) "Rules" means Uttar Pradesh Food Security Rules, 2015; (l) "designated authority" means any officer not below the rank of Supply Inspector of the Food and Civil Supplies Department in the State but for rural areas it also includes Assistant Development Officer (Panchayat) or any officer authorized by the State Government; (j) "local authority" includes a Panchayat, municipal corporation or a Cantonment Board; 2(2) Words and expressions not defined in this Order but defined in the Act, or the Food Security Act , shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in the said Acts." Order 3. Identification of eligible households. - (1) The State Government shall, as soon as possible, identify- (a) the households to be covered under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana; and (b) the priority households; in accordance with such guidelines including exclusion and inclusion criteria as may be notified by the State Government: 31. The identification of eligible households by the State Government is thus contemplated under Sections 9 and 11 of the Food Security Act of 2013 and the U.P. Food Security Rules, 2015. The task of identification of eligible households is executed through the process provided under the Control Order, 2016, by the authorities created thereunder. The designated authority under the Control Order 2016, draws up the list of the eligible households for both the enactments. This is one of many features of the two sets of enactments, which attest the fact that the said enactments, complement each other in purpose and implement the common aim in concert. Purpose of Control Order- 32. Ofcourse, it needs to be added that the ambit of the Control Order 2016, is wider. It also provides for the beneficial schemes which do not fall under the National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015. Section 32 of the said Food Security Act reads thus: Fair Price Shop- 33. The fair price shop dealer is the pivot on which the public distribution system in general and the targeted public distribution system in particular runs. The fair price shop dealer is the agency to receive, store, distribute and sell foodgrains to the eligible segments of the population. The first and the most fruitful interface of the beneficiaries with the public distribution system as well as targeted public distribution system is with the fair price shop dealer. The fair price shop dealer is the sole agency to transmit the benefits of the welfare schemes under the National Food Security Act, 2013 read with the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 to the beneficiaries. The fair price shop dealer maintains the documentation of the public distribution system. It is safe to conclude that the fair price shop dealer is critical or rather indispensable for achieving the purpose of The National Food Security Act, 2013 read with the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 and to implement the mandate of the U.P. Control Order, 2016. 34. The appointment of fair price shop dealer is governed and regulated by Order 7 of the Control Order, 2016. The Order 7 of the Control Order, 2016 is also supplemented by various government orders holding the field. For ease of reference, Order 7 of the said Control Order is extracted hereunder: (iii)A person appointed to run a fair price shop under sub-clause (1) shall sign an agreement, as directed by the State Government regarding running of the fair price shop as per the draft appended to this order before the competent authority prior to the coming with effect of the said appointment. 3. The Food Commissioner shall ensure that the number of ration card-holders attached to a fair price shop are reasonable, the fair price shop is so located that the consumer or ration card-holder does not have to face difficulty to reach fair price shop and that proper coverage is ensured in hilly, tribal and such other areas difficult to access. 4. The State Government shall fix an amount as the fair price shop owner's margin, which shall be periodically reviewed for ensuring sustained viability of the fair price shop operations. 5. The State Government shall put in place a mechanism to ensure the release affair price shop owner's. margin without any delay. (6). The State Government shall allow sale of commodities other than the food grains distributed under the Targeted Public Distribution System at the fair price shop to improve the viability of the fair price shop operations." 35. The fair price shop dealer appointed under Order 7 of Control Order of 2016 acts as an agent of State Government. The contract is executed between the State Government and the fair price shop dealer which is relatable to Order 7(2)(ii)(iii). The privity of contract of fair price shop dealership is between the dealer and the State Government. 36. The operations of the fair price shops are regulated and governed by Order 8 of the Control Order, 2016. Order 8 provides for action against the fair price dealer including suspension and termination for violation of terms of the licence and any irregularity by the dealer. The Order 8 being relevant to the controversy is reproduced below: ii. display of information on a notice board at a prominent place in the shop on daily basis regarding,- a. entitlement of food grains,
 
b. scale of issue,
 
c. retail issue prices, i
 
d. timings of opening and closing of the fair price shop including lunch break, if any,
 
e. stock of food grains received during the month,·
 
f. opening and closing stock of food grains,
 
g. the mechanism including authority for redressal of grievances with respect to quality and quantity of food grains under the Targeted Public Distribution System and
 
h. toll-free helpline number; iii. maintenance of the records of ration card holders, e.g. stock register, issue or sale register shall be in the form prescribed by the State Government including in the electronic format in a progressive manner; iv. display of samples of food grains being supplied through the fair price shop; v. production of books and records relating to the allotment and distribution of food grains to the inspecting agency and furnishing of such information as may be called for by the designated authority; vi. accounts of the actual distribution of food grains and the balance stock at the end of the month,at the fair price shop, shall be sent to the designated authority of the State Government with a copy to the local authority; vii. opening and closing of the fair price shop as per the prescribed timings displayed on the notice board. 5. Any ration card holder desirous of obtaining extracts from the records of a fair price shop owner may make a written request to the owner along with the deposit of the fees specified by the State Government. The fair price shop owner shall provide such extracts of records to the ration card holder within fourteen days from the date of receipt of a request and the fee specified by the State Government: 6. The State Government shall prescribe the procedure to be followed by the designated authority in cases where the fair price shop owner does not provide the records in the manner referred in sub clause. (5) to the ration card holder in the stipulated period and the designated authority in each case shall ensure that the records are provided to the ration card holder without any undue delay. 7. The designated authority shall take prompt action in respect qfviolation of any condition of licence including any irregularity committed by the fair price shop owner, which may include suspension or cancellation of the fair price shop owner's licence or registration of criminal case against the offender. 8. The State Government shall prescribe the maximum period within which proceedings relating to enquiry into irregularities committed by the fair price shop owner shall be concluded, resulting in any action as under sub-clause (7). 9. In case of suspension or cancellation of the licence, the State Government shall make alternative arrangements for ensuring uninterrupted supply of foodgrains to the eligible households. Provided that in case of cancellation of the licence of the fair price shop owner, new licence shall be issued within a month of cancellation. 10. The State Government shall furnish complete information on action taken against a fair price shop owner under this clause annually to the Central Government in the format at Annexure-IV." 37. The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 do not contain any provision for appointment of fair price shop dealer. No specific provisions are made for action in respect of irregularities and violation of any condition of licence like suspension and termination of the fair price shop dealer in the National Food Security Act, 2013 read with U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015. However, The National Food Security Act, 2013 contemplates the existence of fair price shop dealer and also the distribution of essential commodities through its agency. Relevant provisions of The National Food Security Act, 2013 in this regard are extracted hereunder: 38. A conjoint reading of both sets of enactments namely, U.P. Control Order 2016 on one side and The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 on the other establishes that the appointment and termination of fair price shop dealers lies in the exclusively in domain of the Control Order, 2016 and the authorities created thereunder, on the one side. On the other hand the importance of the fair price shop to achieving the common objects of both the sets of enactments is a given in both the sets of statutory enactments. 39. The provisions of The National Food Security Act, 2013 and U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015 clearly acknowledge the role of the Control Order, 2016 in matters relating to appointment, suspension, enquiry and termination of the fair price dealer. There is no legal framework of appointment and termination of the fair price shop dealer outside of the Control Order, 2016 and the authorities created thereunder. In the absence of the provisions of the Control Order 2016, the public distribution system and the targeted public distribution system in particular will not be energized since the appointment, suspension and termination of the fair price shop dealer are made only under the U.P. Control Order, 2016. In such situation an interpretation to stymie the role of the U.P. Control Order 2016 will derail, the public distribution system and disrupt the targeted public distribution system. This in turn will frustrate the purpose and intent of The National Food Security Act, 2013 . In the light of the preceding discussion, it is safe to conclude that the Control Order 2016, is a critical component to achieve the intendment of The National Food Security Act, 2013 and not an impediment in this process. (Staffing Pattern or authorities under the enactments) Implementation of the Enactments by the authorities created under the enactments. 40. The U.P. Control Order, 2016 provides for administration of the public distribution system and the targeted public distribution system by authorities created thereunder. The provisions of the Control Order, 2016, which create and provide for the authorities to run and administer the public distribution system and targeted public distribution system are extracted below: 41. A perusal of the above provisions shows that the Control Order 2016, is implemented and the public distribution system and targeted public distribution system are administered through a vast network of officials and authorities. The authorities under the U.P. Control Order, 2016 are officials of the State Government. The officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department, U.P. are part of the administrative machinery to implement the Control Order 2016, and administer the public distribution system and targeted public distribution system. The officials under the Control Order, 2016 are professional administrators. Some of the superior officials are generalists, but the other positions are staffed by specialists of the Food and Civil Supplies Department. This combination of generalist administrators and specialist officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department bring rich experience and professional knowledge to the statutory tasks entrusted to them. The vast network of officials starts from initial level of administration namely, Sub-Divisonal Magistrate and moves up the hierarchy of State administration. The staffing pattern adequately covers every level of governance of the public distribution system and targeted public distribution system from the village panchayat upwards. The administrative machinery created under the Control Order, 2016 is elaborate and comprehensive. It is adequately equipped to deal with the task of running the public distribution system and targeted public distribution system on a daily basis. 42. The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 on the contrary do not have an elaborate administrative machinery or a vast staffing pattern on the lines of the U.P. Control Order, 2016. Authorities under the National Food Security Act, 2013 - 43. The authorities created under the aforesaid provisions are Grievance Redressal Officer, State Food Commission and Vigilance Committee. The authorities charged with the duty to implement the provisions of The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 are not equipped to run the targeted public distribution system administration on a day to day basis. 44. The roles of the aforesaid authorities under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 are clearly delineated and distinct from the functions assigned to the authorities under the U.P. Control Orders, 2016. The authorities under The National Food Security Act, 2013 are neither vested with the statutory powers nor charged with the statutory duty of a day to day management of the targeted public distribution system. The authorities under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 do not have jurisdiction over the public distribution system at large. The jurisdiction of the other authorities under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 is limited to the targeted public distribution system, which is inextricably woven into the public distribution system. The authorities under the two sets of enactments have clearly delineated roles and separate functions. Functions and Jurisdiction of the authorities under the enactment- 45. The provisions of Chapter VII and IX of the National Food Security Act, 2013 lie at the heart of the implementation scheme of the said enactment. The scope of these provisions is relevant to the controversy. 46. Chapter VII comes under the heading "Grievance Redressal Mechanism". The heading gives a clue to the legislative intent and assists in understanding role and functions of the authorities created by the provisions in the chapter. The provisions of Chapter VII being essential to the controversy are extracted hereunder: Section 16 . State Food Commission.--(1) Every State Government shall, by notification, constitute a State Food Commission for the purpose of monitoring and review of implementation of this Act. (2) The State Commission shall consist of-- (a) a Chairperson; (b) five other Members; and (c) a Member-Secretary, who shall be an officer of the State Government not below the rank of Joint Secretary to that Government: Section 17 . Salary and allowances of Chairperson, Member, Member-Secretary and other staff of State Commission.--The State Government shall provide for salary and allowances of Chairperson, other Members, Member-Secretary, support staff, and other administrative expenses required for proper functioning of the State Commission. Section 18 . Designation of any Commission or body to function as State Commission.--The State Government may, if considers it necessary, by notification, designate any statutory commission or a body to exercise the powers and perform the functions of the State Commission referred to in section 16 . Section 19 . Joint State Food Commission.--Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 16 , two or more States may have a Joint State Food Commission for the purposes of this Act with the approval of the Central Government. Section 20 . Powers relating to inquiries.--(1) The State Commission shall, while inquiring into any matter referred to in clauses (b) and (e) of sub-section (6) of section 16 , have all the powers of a civil court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908) and, in particular, in respect of the following matters, namely:-- Section 21 . Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of State Commission.--No act or proceeding of the State Commission shall be invalid merely by reason of-- (a) any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the State Commission; or (b) any defect in the appointment of a person as the Chairperson or a Member of the State Commission; or (c) any irregularity in the procedure of the State Commission not affecting the merits of the case." Section 29 . Setting up of Vigilance Committees.--(1) For ensuring transparency and proper functioning of the Targeted Public Distribution System and accountability of the functionaries in such system, every State Government shall set up Vigilance Committees as specified in the Public Distribution System (Control) Order, 2001, made under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), as amended from time to time, at the State, District, Block and fair price shop levels consisting of such persons, as may be prescribed by the State Government giving due representation to the local authorities, the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, women and destitute persons or persons with disability. (2) The Vigilance Committees shall perform the following functions, namely:-- 47. The authorities contemplated under The National Food Security Act, 2013 have been specifically designated and identified under the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015. The relevant provisions of Rules 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9 of the said Rules, which describe the authorities and the nature of their roles, are as follows: Rule 5. Hearing before District Grievance Redressal Officer.-(1) The District Grievance Redressal Officer shall notify the days and time for receiving the complaints under the Act. The District Grievance Redressal Officer may also nominate an appropriate officer/employee to receive complaints/grievances on his behalf. (2) District Grievance Redressal Officer shall conduct such enquiry as per sub-rule (4), and if he finds complaint to carry substance, may give directions and relief referred to in sub-rule (3) for compliance with the entitlements granted under the Act. (3) The directions and relief to be provided by the District Grievance Redressal Officer under sub-rule (2) shall be as follows: Provided that such direction shall not be include payment of penalty by any public servant: Rule 6. Timely disposal of the complaints.-The District Grievance Redressal Officer shall hear complaints regarding nondistribution of entitled foodgrains or meals, and matters relating thereof, and take necessary action for their redressal within 90 days. Rule 8. Other Internal System of Grievance Redressal mechanism.-In addition to the internal system of grievance redressal machanism for disposal of the complaints the State Government shall provide as early as possible a web-based grievance redressal portal. Rule 9. Vigilance Committees.-(1) The State Government may constitute, as soon as may be after the commencement of these rules and time thereafter as it may deem fit, constitute vigilance committees as Fair Price Shop, Block District and State level. (2) The vigilance committee(s) shall consist of following members and be in existence for two years from its constitution- (a) At State Level- (i) the Food Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh-Chairperson; (ii) one officer of Special Secretary rank in the Department of Food and Civil Supplies to be nominated by the Secretary/Principal Secretary; (iii) the Director Mid Day Meal; (iv) the Director Integrated Child Development Scheme; (v) the Special Secretary, Uttar Pradesh Government in Medical Health and Family Welfare Department nominated by the Principal Secretary; (vi) the Additional Commissioner Civil Supplies shall be the convenor; (vii) Chief Marketing Officer/Regional Food Marketing Officer (H.Q.)-Member; (viii) the Chairperson of one urban or rural local body of Uttar Pradesh nominated by the State Government; (ix) two persons having an established record of working in the field related to food, food safety, public distribution system or nutrition of not less than five years to be nominated by the State Government. (b) At District Level- (i) the Collector-Chairperson; (ii) two District level officers to be nominated by the Collector; (iii) the Basic Shiksha Adhikari, District Programme Officer of Integrated Child Development Scheme and the Chief Medical Officer; (iv) the District Supply Officer shall be the convenor; (v) the Chairperson of one urban or local body in the district, nominated by the Divisional Commissioner; (vi) District Food Marketing Officer-Member; (vii) any two persons living in the district having an established record of
 
working in the field related to food, food safety, public distribution system or nutrition of not less than two years to be nominated by the Divisional Commissioner; (c) At Block level- (i) the Sub-Divisional Magistrate of the Sub-Divisional in which the Block is situated-Chairman; (ii) the Block Pramukh of the Block; (iii) the Block Development Officer of the Block; (iv) an Officer nominated by the Sub Divisional Magistrate; (v) Area Marketing Officer/Marketing Officer-Member; (vi) the Block Education Officer, the Child Development Programme Officer of the Integrated Child Development Scheme and the Medical Officer-in-charge if the Community Health Centre; (vii) the Area Rationing Officer/Supply Inspector Shall be the convenor; (viii) tow persons living in the Gram Panchayat situated in the concerned Kshetra Panchayat to be nominated by the Collector. (d) At Fair Price Shop level- (i) the Gram Pradhan of the Panchayat; (ii) senior most member of the Administrative Committee of Gram Sabha-Member; (iii) the Head Master of a primary school nominated by Block Education Officer, Anganwadi Worker of Integrated Child Development Scheme, Accredited Social Health Activities (sic Activist). (iv) Gram Panchayat Secretary/Gram Vikas Adhikari shall be Member-Convenor. (v) three members of the Gram Sabha (i.e., the person living in the area of Gram Panchayat to be nominated by the Block Development Officer: 48. We shall turn to the implementing provisions of the U.P. Control order, 2016. The provisions of Order IX and Order X are as under: 49. The full reading of the aforesaid provisions in both sets of enactments, discloses the legislative intent of the congruence in purpose and distinction in functions. A reference to order 9 (1)(2)(3) of the Control Order, 2016 (quoted earlier) goes to show that the authorities under the Control Order, 2016 shall supervise the day to day implementation of the Control Order, 2016 and administer the targeted distribution system in particular. The supervisory, adjudicatory and advisory roles of the authorities created under The National Food Security Act, 2013 read with Rules is distinct from the executive and administrative functions of the authorities under the Control Order, 2016. This feature does not undermine the role of the authorities in The National Food Security Act, 2013 read with U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015, but underlines the distinction in the roles and functions of the authorities under two sets of the enactments. This will be seen in more detail in the succeeding paragraphs. The authorities created under the Control Order, 2016 constitute the framework of on day to day administration of the targeted public distribution system and the implementation of the Control Order, 2016. Thus functions of routine nature come under the responsibility of these authorities. The functions ascribed to the authorities under the provisions ensure transparency and efficiency in the operations of the public distribution system and targeted public distribution system. 50. The nature, functions and jurisdiction of the authorities under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 shall now be examined. As seen earlier primarily the authorities created under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 are Grievance Redressal Officer, Food Commission and Vigilance Committee. The Grievance Redressal Officer:- 51. The proceedings before the grievance redressal officer are triggered by the complaints of aggrieved persons relating to denial of entitled foodgrains or meals or to enforce the entitlements under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015. The jurisdiction of the grievance redressal officer is adjudicatory in nature. The jurisdiction is invoked by the complaint by an aggrieved party. The functions of the grievance redressal officer are not administrative or executive in character. The grievance redressal officer has lawful authority to take necessary actions to redress the complaints. The proceedings before the grievance redressal officer and the orders passed by the grievance redressal officers are not final. 52. Dissatisfied parties including the officers and the authorities, besides the complainant can take the order passed by the grievance redressal officer in appeal before the State Food Commission. The involvement of the grievance redressal officer in the targeted public distribution system, is episodic and on a complaint to complaint basis. The day to day administration of the targeted public distribution system does not lie within the jurisdiction of the grievance redressal officer. The existence and function of the Grievance Redressal Officer to conduct an enquiry into complaints of card-holders does not preclude the authorities under the Control Order, 2016 to conduct an enquiry on complaints of malpractices in distribution of essential commodities. The scope of both the enquiries is different. The enquiry by the authorities under the Control Order follows in the course of performance of their administrative functions to ensure the efficacy of day-to-day operations of the targeted public distribution system. In the case, at hand, there is no conflict between the finding arrived or the recommendations made by the Grievance Redressal Officer and the Authority under the Control Order, 2016. This is one important factual aspect of the controversy on which the discussion turns. State Food Commission:- 53. The State Food Commission monitors and evaluates the implementation of the National Food Security Act in the State. The State Food Commission has powers to enquire into the violations under The National Food Security Act, 2013 . The State Food Commission has powers of the Civil Court to assist and aid the inquiry being made by it under Section 16 of The National Food Security Act, 2013. 54. There are two noteworthy aspects which need to be highlighted at this stage. The role of the State Food Commission is adjudicatory in nature like grievance redressal officer but also advisory in character unlike that of the grievance redressal officer. The executive functions for day to day administration are also not the domain of the State Food Commission. The threads of the second point have to be picked up from the earlier discussion on the staffing pattern of the State Food Commission. The public distribution system and the targeted public distribution system is a huge network which covers the whole State. The composition of the State Food Commission shows that it does not possess the vast administrative staff, the expertise and the resources to run and administer the targeted distribution system on a daily basis. Further, The National Food Security Act, 2013 does not vest the State Food Commission with the authority to run and administer the targeted public distribution system on daily basis. The day to day administration of the targeted pubic distribution system is in the nature of executive function. The executive functions are not series of adjudicatory decisions. 55. The Vigilance Committees set up under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 is charged with the duty to supervise the implementation of all schemes under the Act, inform the District Grievance Redressal Officer of violations of the provisions of the Food Security Act and of any other malpractice or misappropriation of funds found by it. The composition of the Vigilance Committee and the staffing pattern of the Vigilance Committee also shows that it is not equipped to handle the day to day administration of the targeted public distribution system. But there is another important aspect to this discussion. Authorities: Incorporation of authorities created under the National Food Security Act, 2013 in the Control Order, 2016- 56. Various authorities created under The National Food Security Act, 2013 have been co-opted in the scheme of the Control Order, 2016. The Vigilance Committee created by The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 has been incorporated in the Control Order of 2016. The functioning of the Vigilance Committee has been harmonized in the scheme of the Control Order of 2016 in a manner to ensure that the Vigilance Committee discharges its duties under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 without working at cross purposes with the authorities of the Control Order, 2016. Similarly, the Grievance Redressal Officer and the State Food Commission created under The National Food Security Act, 2013 have been incorporated in the provisions of the Control Order, 2016. 57. A perusal of the relevant statutory provisions will enable us to cement this narrative. Section 29 of The National Food Security Act, 2013 & Rule 9(3) of the U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015 and Order IX(4)(5)(6)(7) of the Control Order, 2016 are extracted hereunder: Rule 9(3). The vigilance committees shall meet at least once in every quarter of a calender year. Order IX(4). The State Government shall set up vigilance committees for the Targeted Public Distribution System at the State, District, Block and fair price shop levels as per the provisions of the Food Security Act to perform functions as specified in the said Act. 5. Meetings of the vigilance committees shall be held at least once every quarter at all levels and the date and periodicity of the meeting shall be notified by the State Government and given wide publicity. 6. The State Government shall send a report annually to the Central Government on the functioning of vigilance committees in the format at Annexure-V. 7. The number of meetings held by the vigilance committees shall be displayed on the State web portal and the action taken on issues discussed in meetings of vigilance committees shall be reviewed in the next meeting." 58. In a similar fashion the Grievance Redressal Officer under The National Food Security Act, 2013 has also been incorporated in the Control Order, 2016 and its functions and have been co-opted by the Control Order of 2016 to advance the common purpose of the enactments. The relevant provisions in this regard which bear out the above observations are set out hereinafter. Order IX (9)(10)(11) is extracted below: 59. The provisions of both the sets of enactments shows that the authorities created thereunder, perform complementary functions to achieve the larger common aim. The whole purpose of co-opting authorities, incorporation of various provisions of The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 in the Control Order, 2016 is to avoid multiplicity of authorities performing the same function and to avert a conflict of jurisdiction. Search and Seizure- 60. The distinct functions of authorities under the Control Order, 2016 and the responsibility of the authorities created thereunder and that of The National Food Security Act, 2013 read with the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 is also borne out from the provisions relating to search and seizure. The power of search and seizure is vested by Order XII in the competent authority under the Control Order, 2016. It is apposite to reproduce the provisions. Order 12 is extracted hereunder:- 61. There is no comparable provision under the The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015. 62. The power of search and seizure is an essential requirement for an efficient administration of public distribution system and targeted public distribution system. It is a fundamental tenet of good administration the power should vest where the responsibility resides. In other words power and responsibility should co-exist in one authority. Power without responsibility are the assets of a feudal order. Responsibility without power is the recipe for anarchy. 63. Power of search and seizure is vested in the authorities under the Control Order, 2016. These authorities are responsible for the implementation of the targeted distribution on a day to day basis. This power enables the authorities under the Control Order 2016, to have a day to day & transaction to transaction oversight on the targeted public distribution system. It enables the said authorities to cast an uninterrupted vigilance on the targeted public distribution system in general and fair price shop dealer in particular. Enquiries- 64. The enquiry conducted by the authorities under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 and the Control Order, 2016 have to be seen in the light of their functions the nature of the jurisdiction exercised and the powers conferred upon the authorities under the respective enactments. The inquiries conducted by such authorities can overlap but the purposes of the enquiries may vary. However, the emphasis of the enquiries by the respective authorities would certainly differ. Penalty- 65. Another provision of relevance relates to the penalties. The provisions relating to penalties under The National Food Security Act, 2013 , being Sections 33 and 34 of the said Act are extracted hereunder: 66. The provision for penalty contemplated under the Control Order, 2016 is much more stringent in scope and penal in consequence. Order XI contemplates imposition of punishment for violation of the provisions of the Control Order, 2016. Order 11 of the said control order reads thus: 67. The consequences of violation of provisions of The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 are tested by the authorities created under the said Act. The penalties are in the nature of fines. The violation of the Control Order, 2016 read with Section 3 / 7 of the Essential Commodities Act envisages imposition of punishment after criminal prosecution before the trial court. The punishment may extent to imprisonment upto 7 years. Fine is imposed after adjudication. Ration Cards- 68. Another evidence of the schemes of The National Food Security Act, 2013 , U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2016 and the Control Order, 2016, being part of a composite legislative structure is seen from the provisions relating to ration cards. Section 2(16) of The National Food Security Act, 2013 defines ration cards which is extracted below: 69. Ration cards are issued under Order IV of the Control Order, 2016. The said provision of Order IV is extracted hereunder: 70. The possession of a ration card is an important requirement for obtaining the benefits and entitlements created under The National Food Security Act, 2013 . The ration card itself is issued only under the Control Order, 2016. Logistics- 71. The provisions of Order V and Order VI of the Control Order, 2016 also bear relevance to the controversy. Orders 5 and 6 relate to day to day functioning and management of logistics of the targeted public distribution system. The provisions relating to lifting of foodgrains and distribution of foodgrains are Order V and VI: Order 6. Distribution of foodgrains by States. - (1) The allocation of foodgrains made by the Central Government under the Targeted Public Distribution System to the State Government shall be used for distribution as per the provisions of the Food Security Act and not for any other purpose. (2) A utilisation certificate shall be furnished every year by the State Government in the format as at Annex-IV. (3) The Food Commissioner shall ensure, through the authorised agency, physical delivery of foodgrains to the fair price shop by end of the month preceding the allocation month and in any case not later than the first week of the allocation month. (4) The Competent Authority shall obtain a monthly certificate, including through electronic platform, confirming delivery of allocated foodgrains to the fair price shop and their distribution to eligible households during the allocation month from the desginated officer and compilation of such all certificates of the Districts shall be made available to Commissioner through Joint Commissioner/Deputy Commissioner (Food) concerned. (5) The monthly certificate shall be jointly given by the following:- 72. It is noteworthy that no provisions for lifting a foodgrains and distribution of foodgrains by the statutes are made in The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015. The logistics of running the targeted public distribution system is clearly in the domain of the Control Order, 2016. In this manner also, the scheme of the Control Order, 2016 reinforces the objects of the National Food Security Act, 2013 . Accountability- 73. The provisions relating to an accountability which ensure transparency in functioning and efficiency in distribution are provided under Chapter II of The National Food Security Act, 2013 . The relevant provisions are reproduced hereunder: Section 29 . Setting up of Vigilance Committees.--(1) For ensuring transparency and proper functioning of the Targeted Public Distribution System and accountability of the functionaries in such system, every State Government shall set up Vigilance Committees as specified in the Public Distribution System (Control) Order, 2001, made under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), as amended from time to time, at the State, District, Block and fair price shop levels consisting of such persons, as may be prescribed by the State Government giving due representation to the local authorities, the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, women and destitute persons or persons with disability. (2) The Vigilance Committees shall perform the following functions, namely:-- 74. A similar system of transparency and accountability has been adopted by the Control Order, 2016. The provisions Order X are reproduced hereunder: 75. By adopting the similar standards and schemes of accountability in the Control Order of 2016 and The National Food Security Act, 2013 , the enactments have been harmonized. Conclusions- 76. The overarching purpose of both the sets of legislation is congruent. It is to achieve efficiency and transparency in the functioning of the targeted public distribution system, to ensure accountability and probity of the agencies and officials administering and above all to effectuate the rights of the beneficiary population. The schemes of both sets of enactments are well integrated to achieve the purpose set out by the legislature. The legislature was conscious that congruence in the schemes of both the sets of legislations could produce a possibility of conflict. The legislature went the whole length to obviate the possibility of such conflict. The provisions of the enactments have been harmonized in detail. 77. The schemes of the both the sets of enactments discussed in the earlier part of the judgement in detail shall now be referred to in outline to sum up the discussion and establish the coherence in the legislative structure. 78. The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 envisage the pre-existence of the Control Order, 2016 also contemplate co-existence with the U.P. Control Order, 2016. The U.P. Essential Commodities (Regulation of Sale and Distribution Control) Order, 2016 was promulgated in the year 2016, subsequent to The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015. The State Government was conscious of the preceding legislations namely, The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Food Security Rules, 2016 in point. 79. The schemes of the enactments show that the Control Order, 2016 is well integrated into the scheme of the The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 to subserve the high purpose the legislation has set out to achieve. The beneficiaries of the enactments are common. The rights created by The National Food Security Act, 2013 read with U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015 are also brought to fruition by the Control Order, 2016. The Control order 2016 incorporates the provisions of The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015 and co-opts the authorities created The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015. The Control Order, 2016 has aligned functioning of the authorities created under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015, in its regime. 80. Cross references of provisions clearly contemplate a joint existence, and parallel functioning and co-habitation of the same field. Similar conclusions can be drawn from the provisions relating to eligible households, ration cards, Antyodaya Schemes, Fair Price Shops, Identification of the eligible households, system of accountability creation of authorities like Vigilance Committee, State Food Commission, Grievance Redressal Officer and also reference made in the Control Order, 2016 to the appellate authority created under The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015. 81. There is no head on collision between the aforesaid enactments. In fact both the enactments are not in discord but serve a complementary purpose. Certain consequence of the actions and scope of the inquires undertaken by the authorities under the respective enactments may over lap. However, the aforesaid over lap is only collateral consequence. The overlap of the same and the consequences of the inquiries under the enactments are only incidental and do not create a situation where the conflict of jurisdiction is created. Both the enactments can be construed harmoniously and their purposes can be achieved simultaneously. 82. In the absence of the provisions of the Control Order, 2016 there is no legal frame work to manage and supervise the distribution and sale of the essential commodities. In short the public distribution system would face a break down bereft of the legal frame work created by the Control Order. 83. A conjoint reading of both the sets of enactments shows that both the legislations are integral to each other and indispensable to achieve the common legislative purpose. One enactment is incomplete without other. The enactments have a symbiotic relationship. The schemes of both the enactments are intermeshed and the mix cannot be unscrambled. Together both the sets of enactments namely, The National Food Security Act, 2013 and the Uttar Pradesh State Food Security Rules, 2015, and Control Order, 2016 constitute the composite legal framework and provide a common statutory backbone to create an effective targeted public distribution system and effectuate the rights of the eligible beneficiaries. The authorities under both the enactments reinforce each other and perform complementary functions. They do not work at cross purposes. The legislative schemes ensure that the authorities exist in concord and act in concert. The legislative intent is to harmonize the enactments and avoid conflict. The courts by interpretation cannot produce discord which will frustrate the objects of the legislation. The existence of a non obstante clause in section of The National Food Security Act, 2013 is noticed. But the same cannot be invoked in the facts of this case, as there are no contrary provisions of the Control Order, 2016 in issue. Neither of the legislation can be stymied in their functioning without risk of defeating the common noble purpose created by the legislature. The intent of the legislature is too pious, failure is not an option. 84. The Control Order, 2016 is not in conflict with the provisions of The National Food Security Act, 2013 read with U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015. The Control Order, 2016 is not superseded by the National Food Security Act, 2013 read with U.P. State Food Security Rules, 2015. Facts- 85. In the light of the above legal narrative, the facts of the controversy shall now be discussed. The enquiry undertaken against the petitioner in pursuance of the show cause notice dated 16.03.2018 issued by the respondent No.2 is in issue in the instant writ petition. 86. The show cause notice dated 16.03.2018 and the enquiry proceedings in pursuance thereof, are clearly relatable to Order VIII of the Control Order, 2016 read with the terms of the contract between the dealer and the State Government as well as the Government Orders holding the field. 87. There is no conflict of jurisdiction between the authorities conducting the enquiry in pursuance of the show cause notice under the Control Order, 2016 and the authorities under The National Food Security Act, 2013 . In such view of the facts and the position of law stated in the preceding parts of the judgment, no infirmity can be found in the show cause notice dated 16.3.2018. The show cause notice dated 16.03.2018 was in legitimate exercise of power vested in the authority by law. It was not in excess of jurisdiction. The challenge to the jurisdiction of the authorities to undertake such proceedings is misconceived. 88. The writ petition lacks merit and is dismissed. Order Date :- 02.11.2018
 
Pravin/Ashish Tripathi