S.J.VAZIFDAR, ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE

 The petitioner has sought a writ restraining respondent

 No.2-Haryana State Cooperative Apex Bank Ltd. (HARCO) from

 awarding any contract to respondent No.3-M/s Euronet Services India

 Pvt. Ltd. and if already issued, for the cancellation thereof. The RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -2- petitioner has also sought an order directing respondent No.3 to allot

 the work related to the project in question to it. 2. Respondent No.2-HARCO intended commencing on

 boarding the Electronic Card Payment System by adopting a sub-

 membership route from an existing member for participating in the

 Electronic Card Payment System. The Co-operative Banks intended

 joining the National Financial Switch (NFS) through a ASP Switch

 Vendor to provide ATM services to their clients in the State of

 Haryana. 3. Respondent No.2 did not adopt the normal competitive bid

 system by issuing tenders and inviting bids in respect of the said work.

 It addressed identical letters to about 18 concerns engaged in the said

 field for the selection of a Application Service Provider (ASP) ATM

 Switch Vendor for sub-membership to join the National Finacus Switch

 (SFS)-Electronic Card Payment System. The letters were also

 addressed to the petitioner and to respondent No.3. They were

 requested to submit their detailed proposals covering all aspects of sub-

 membership model, key features etc. alongwith the information relating

 to their companies as per the format annexed as I and II upto

 20.06.2014. 4. It is important to note that there was no specific eligibility

 criteria stipulated in these letters. For instance, the information was

 sought as to whether the Application Service Provider (ASP) was

 registered under the Companies Act, 1956 ; whether it was in the

 business of providing ATM driving Switching Services on hosted RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -3- platforms as ASP provider for the last three years; whether the ASP

 was certified with ISO 27001; whether the material provided by the

 ASP was certified by PA-DSS standards and whether the ASP's annual

 performance was profitable. By Annexure-II, the ASP's were informed regarding the

 functional and technical specifications of EFT Switching Services. 5. Thus while respondent No.2 sought information regarding

 the nature of activities and the quality of the ASP's projects and

 services, it did not stipulate any eligibility criteria. In other words, this

 was not the usual tender process by inviting bids from the public at

 large. Due to the specialized and sensitive nature of the work certain

 known enterprises in the field were invited to participate in the process

 of selection. 6. The petitioner responded to the above communication by

 its proposal dated 20.06.2014. Respondent No.2-HARCO by its letter

 dated 18.07.2014 addressed to the ASP's including the petitioner and

 respondent No.3 invited the financial bids for the said work by

 24.07.2014. The petitioner submitted its bid on 23.07.2014 and

 respondent No.3 submitted its bid on 24.07.2014. 7. A meeting of the committee constituted by respondent

 No.2-HARCO regarding the said work was held on 08.08.2014

 inter-alia regarding the financial position of the ASP Switch vendors.

 The committee comprised of the Chief Executive Officers of various

 Co-operative banks and the Assistant General Manager of the National

 Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -4- proposal with regard to the eligibility criteria received from the various

 vendors was placed before the Committee. The minutes of the meeting

 recorded the interaction between the Committee and the various

 vendors. Mr. Anupam Gupta, learned Senior Counsel appearing on

 behalf of the petitioner strongly relied upon the noting in the minutes

 that the committee found the petitioner and respondent No.3 to have

 fulfilled all the eligibility criteria and that it had been decided to open

 the financial proposals received from them. The minutes further

 recorded that the financial proposals were opened by the Committee in

 the presence of the representatives of the vendors. The Committee

 found that the financials with regard to the PIN generation process

 were lacking. Both the petitioner and respondent No.3 were advised to

 quote their financials. The minutes recorded that a representative of the

 petitioner had 'maliciously altered the quote' in certain respects. The

 committee decided that the total cost of ownership per annum of both

 the petitioner and respondent No.3 be prepared and put up before it. 8. The position thus far is that the petitioner and respondent

 No.3 were found to be technically qualified for the work. The petitioner

 contends that its quote was lower than that of respondent No.3. 9. At another meeting held on 15.09.2014 the committee

 discussed the issue once again. The minutes of the meeting recorded

 that the committee decided that a format containing Questionnaire be

 formulated by respondent No.2-HARCO and NABARD covering all

 aspects of compliances made by the petitioner and respondent No.3 in RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -5- their respective proposals. The committee also decided to visit the head

 offices and operational centres of the petitioner and respondent No.3

 situated at Mumbai for verification of the compliances made by them in

 their respective proposals. It was further noted that the committee

 would take a further decision in this respect after a visit. 10. The committee visited the head offices and operational

 centres of the petitioner and respondent No.3 at Mumbai. The

 responses obtained from the petitioner and respondent No.3 in respect

 of the technical specifications and services of their ATM Switch &

 Organization were placed before the Committee. The Committee after

 going through the report of the visit and the responses obtained from

 the petitioner and respondent No.3 concluded that respondent No.3 had

 made better Card Management System (CMS), PIN Generation Process

 & set up as compared to that of the petitioner. The relevant parts of the

 minutes of the meeting held on 10.11.2014 read as under:- After going through the Visit Report and
 responses obtained from both the vendors, the
 committee found that M/s Euronet Services India
 Pvt. Ltd. has much better Card Management System
 (CMS), Pin Generation Process & Setup, 24x7
 Technical Support Team, Reconciliation services, RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -6- ATM Monitoring Centre & 24x7 Help Desk, Team Size
 & Setup, ATM Test lab with multiple makes &
 models, AADHAAR based solution, Escalation Matrix,
 Centralize EJ Pulling & Screen Push Application and
 Online Fraud & Risk Monitoring System as compared
 to M/s Finacus Solutions Pvt. Ltd. M/s Euronet
 Services India Pvt. Ltd. has already established Host
 to Host connectivity and integration with WIPRO,
 NABARD CBS instance whereas M/s Finacus
 Solutions Pvt. Ltd. has not any host to host
 connectivity and integration with WIPRO, NABARD
 CBS instance. M/s Finacus Solutions Pvt. Ltd. has
 also not implemented KCC cards in any of the banks
 on their switch. ATM Switch of M/s Euronet Services
 India Ltd. is currently processing approx 25 lacs
 transactions per day whereas M/s Finacus Solutions
 Pvt. Ltd. is processing only 27,100 transactions per
 day on its ATM Switch. The committee also found
 that M/s Euronet Services India Pvt. Ltd. has more
 compliances with the latest standard and mandates
 issues by card schemes and regulatory bodies with
 all relevant certificates and documentation as
 compared to M/s Finacus Solutions Pvt. Ltd. M/s Finacus Solutions Pvt. Ltd. failed to
 provide any Certification for EMV (Chip & PIN)
 compliant for ATM & POS Transactions or
 implementation with any bank, provided name of
 their ATM Switch FinCONNECT instead of name of
 centralized EJ Pulling Software and its Platform and
 they provided M/s Atom Technologies Ltd. letter
 issued by NPCI as member entity for AADHAAR
 based transactions as Authentication Service Agency
 (ASA) of UIDAI instead of M/s Finacus Solutions Pvt.
 Ltd. The Committee perused the Visit Report, email
 responses on queries submitted by both vendors and
 deliberated on the clarifications furnished by the
 vendors and found M/s Euronet Services India Pvt.
 Ltd. technically eligible on fulfilling all required RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -7- criterion for selection of ASP ATM Switch and
 selected M/s Euronet Services India Pvt. Ltd. as ASP
 ATM Switch for the issuance of Rupay Debit and
 Rupay Kisan Card for Apex Bank and 18 DCCBs in
 the State of Haryana. The committee further decided that M/s
 Euronet Services India Pvt. Ltd. will be called for
 negotiation on quoted rates in the next meeting of
 the committee." Subsequently, the rates were infact renegotiated between

 the respondent No.2 and respondent No.3. 11. Mr. Gupta, submitted that respondent No.2 having found

 the petitioner technically eligible to perform the contract and its bid

 being lower than that of respondent No.3 ought to have been invited for

 further negotiations and awarded the contract. The bid of respondent

 No.3 being higher than that of the petitioner ought to have been

 rejected and respondent No.3 ought not thereof to have been invited

 even to renegotiate the financial terms. 12. The process adopted for the appointment of ASP Switch

 vendors cannot be faulted in any event at the instance of the petitioner.

 The petitioner was aware that respondent No.2-HARCO had not invited

 the competitive bids from the public. It was aware that respondent No.2

 had chosen to invite the bids only from the selected enterprises. It

 participated in this process without demur. It cannot now challenge the

 process. 13. In any event, there is nothing to indicate that the process

 was unfair. The work was of a specialized nature. It is obviously of a RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -8- sensitive nature. Technical perfection and assured back up service is

 imperative for such work. A policy decision to invite the select bidders

 with experience and reputation in the field cannot be faulted. 14. Though the ordinary rule is to dispose of the property or

 award the contracts by public auction or by inviting tenders, it is not an

 invariable rule. This has been so held by the Supreme Court in Shri

 Sachindanand Pandey and another v. The State of W.B. and others

 1987(2) SCC 295. This judgment was followed in several cases

 including in the case of ITC Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others JT 2011(7) SC 602. 15. It is not that the petitioner does not meet the eligibility

 criteria. However, due to the specialized and sensitive nature of the

 work, respondent No.2 considered respondent No.3 to be a more

 suitable enterprise. 16. The petitioner was technically qualified to perform the

 contract. This is clear from the minutes of the meeting of the

 Committee held on 08.08.2014. The committee had found the petitioner

 to have fulfilled all the eligibility criteria necessary to perform the

 contract. The record does not indicate a change of mind in this regard. 17. The only question is whether respondent No.2 was bound

 to enter into further negotiations and award the contract only to the

 petitioner on account of its bid having been lower than that of

 respondent No.3. 18. It is not an absolute rule that the tender must be awarded

 only to the lowest bidder. That is a normal rule. It is, however, always RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -9- open to a party inviting the tender to award the contract to a bidder

 other than the lowest bidder if it is in the interest to do so and when it

 becomes a public contract, the decision must be rational, well informed

 and bonafide. 19. In the present case on the face of the record there is nothing

 to indicate any mala fides on the part of respondent No.2. Nor is there

 anything to indicate that it acted arbitrarily or irrationally while

 awarding the work to respondent No.3 although its bid was higher than

 that of the petitioner. It did so after having studied the relevant material

 and after having made the necessary enquiries. This is evident from

 what is recorded in the minutes of the meeting held on 15.09.2014 and

 10.11.2014. A committee was constituted specifically for the purpose

 of finalizing the APS Switch vendors. The committee visited the offices

 of the petitioner and respondent No.3, made necessary enquiries and

 studied the responses received from the petitioner and respondent No.3

 to its queries. 20. It was not contended that the members of the committee

 were incompetent to judge the comparative merits and de-merits of the

 petitioner and respondent No.3. Nor was it suggested that they made

 the wrong enquiries or took irrelevant facts into consideration. Absent

 anything else the proceedings at the meeting held on 10.11.2014

 indicate that an informed decision was taken by respondent No.2 in this

 regard. RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document Civil Writ Petition No. 1457 of 2015 -10- 21. In the circumstances, the writ petition is dismissed. There

 shall, however, be no order as to costs. The stay granted shall continue

 upto and including 6th April, 2015. (S.J.VAZIFDAR)
 ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE

 (AUGUSTINE GEORGE MASIH)
 JUDGE
 4th March, 2015
 'ravinder' RAVINDER SHARMA 2015.03.04 17:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document