SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Abusive Indian Parents
DATE: 2022-10-01
SCORE: 45
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/xsye75/abusive_indian_parents/

--- POST TEXT ---

It's partially a Rant and a post for suggestions.

I have been a socially active person and have interacted with lot of people online on various platforms. With time, I have realised there's a very deep problem that's not on the centre stage, forget that, not even a topic of discussion anywhere. It's abusive Indian Parents. 

I met my now best friend, 8 years back and she has gone through some rough childhood. Her parents are highly educated and rich but have treated her like a burden. I have never seen that around me or in my family, so for me It was the first incident. With time, I have heard 1000s of stories of mostly teenage girls being physically and mentally abused by parents from the victims, or people who know the victims. 

Example- The fear and terror of the parents are so deep rooted in the victims that they are afraid to reach out for help. Suppose you meet someone online and they share all this to you anonymously to lighten up their heart. All you feel is helpless. You can't barge in on someone's house. 
High chances the girl might not turn against her parents to save "family image".

One of the person I know, is a young girl who's parents are divorced, mom has made her dad's life hell through cases and doesn't have any means to raise her properly. She needs a knee surgery, but is living her life as she is stucked between her parents fight.

Another story of a young teenager boy, who is similarly stucked between the failed marriage of her mom and his stepdad. His stepdad beats him, mom takes out her anger on him. 

Some observations-

1. The abusive parents are taking out their frustration on the children.

2. They don't know how to be a parent, how to understand the psychology of a kid or a teenager. Teenagers get rebelious or egoistic at times but they just want love and attention. 

3. People were pushed into marriage and never really developed love for each other, It was always the lust and then they had a kid to sustain the void marriage. Now, they don't understand the responsibility of raising a child. 

4. The online world and corporate life have brought in options for married couples. They are cheating more, instead of communicating, people are finding it easier to fulfill their desires with a stranger than with the person they had their kid. I have brought up this point because I have observed the cheating partner starts to live a nostalgic youthful life and starts to drift away from family and their responsibilities. 

5. The abused kids are getting quiet, more depressed, developing mental issues. They either stop trusting people or become too vulnerable to trust anyone. Their are lot of girls who try to find solace online, but are used by men who doesn't give a shit about the girl's condition.

I don't know what can we do about it, would like to brainstorm some ideas with people who are willing to do something about this