As a group of United States (US) Senators re-introduced an anti-deepfake regulation in the US Congress, they received YouTube’s backing for the regulation. This anti-deepfake act, called the “Nurture Originals, Foster Art, and Keep Entertainment Safe Act” or the NO FAKES Act, seeks to protect people’s voice and likeness from replication through artificial intelligence (AI) models without consent.

In a blog post expressing support for the regulation, YouTube says that it is working closely with its partners, such as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and the Motion Picture Association (MPA), to push for a shared consensus on this legislation. Besides these three, Sony Music, Universal Music Group, and Walt Disney have also expressed support for the NO FAKES Act.

“The NO FAKES Act provides a smart path forward because it focuses on the best way to balance protection with innovation: putting power directly in the hands of individuals to notify platforms of AI-generated likenesses they believe should come down,” YouTube says, explaining the rationale behind supporting the legislation. It mentioned that this notification is important because it allows platforms to differentiate between authorised content and harmful fakes.

Initially introduced in 2024 , this regulation gives people the right to authorise the use of their voice or visual likeness in a digital replica. Digital replica, under the regulation, means a “highly realistic electronic representation that is readily identifiable as the voice or visual likeness of an individual”. A license to use someone’s likeness will be valid only if:

The license for an adult’s likeness cannot exceed over 10 years and for someone under the age of 18 cannot exceed 5 years. If someone produces a digital replica of an individual without their consent, they will be liable for civil action. However, to be held liable under the NO FAKES Act, the person publishing/distributing the non-consensual digital replica must have “actual knowledge” that the content they posted is indeed a digital replica and that the applicable right holder did not authorise it. This actual knowledge can be in the form of a notification.

The NO FAKES Act will not be applicable in the following cases:

Under the Act, the rights to voice and likeness do not end when an individual dies. Once the individual dies, their executors/heirs/licensees have the right to license/transfer this right. The Act allows rights to be transferred through any legal means or through inheritance as personal property by the applicable laws of intestate succession (succession when the dead person has not left behind any will). In case of licensing agreements before the death of an individual, a right holder has the rights to a dead individual’s voice and likeness:

The rights will terminate after either the 10-year period, the five-year extension, or after 70 years of the individual’s death.

The NO FAKES Act says that websites or platforms hosting digital replicas that a user uploaded will not be automatically liable for violating the act as long as they:

Securing personality rights has become a significant issue since the advent of deepfakes. This regulation could set a precedent for protecting personality rights in other parts of the world, including India.

In India, courts have protected the personality rights of public figures such as journalist Rajat Sharma , and singer Arijit Singh from artificial intelligence (AI) misuse. Many other celebrities such as Jackie Schroff , Anil Kapoor , and Amitabh Bachchan have knocked the judiciary’s door to protect their personality rights from misuse. In Kapoor and Shroff’s cases, their lawyers specifically argued misuse through AI models. While such eminent individuals have been successful in protecting their personality rights in India, there is no clear regulation for the average person to argue for the same.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event