SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of such scammers 

DATE: 2024-03-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1b4w4ms/beware_of_such_scammers/

--- POST TEXT ---

A new group of scammers is active these days. Yesterday, a man came to my house claiming to be from a shop called "New Big Bazar." He said there's an inauguration of a new electronics shop on March 30th and he's distributing 50% off coupons and scratch cards. The scratch cards had items like cycles, microwaves, TVs, smartphones, and a sauna belt. He asked me to participate, saying if I won anything, I'd pay Rs 700 and get the item, otherwise I wouldn't have to pay anything and all the item are expensive so 700 is nothing even that sauna belt is of rs 2500 and you can also exchange prize and get anything of same MRP from the after its opening . I was a bit sceptical from beginning , but I decided to give it a shot. I filled out the form, scratched the card, and guess what I won a sauna belt. I knew it was a scam right away cuz I know my luck and I have never won any lottery in my entire life , but I was free and got nothing do at that time so I decided played along . He took out belt from his bag and I can see happiness in his eyes he was probably thinking " mast bakra fas gya " and I was also thinking " mast timepass mil gya .Then he stared demonstrating it so the next 5-6 min I was just asking supid questions about the products to annoy him , the product was of very cheap quality and you can get that product in 200 rs on Amazon and he showed me a website where it was listed at 1700 . Then he asked me to pay 700rs , but now I straight up asked him how can I verify that he is genuine person . I asked for verification, he showed me a fake ID card then I tried to find the store on Google Maps, but got nothing , he said that shop is not opened yet so it won't show up on maps . I was Still playing along so I asked to see the truck with the other items and we literally walked outside to find the truck but there was nothing. He called his fake driver, and they pretended the truck was roaming nearby. Now We both knew whats he's doing , but he is still not accepting and started saying that I can't back out now because I'd filled the form. So, I played my master card and asked for his company's GST number, and he finally gave up and left, saying, "nahi lena hai toh mat lijiye , time waste kr diye mera ."

What a wild day it was