1. The present group of petitions seek to impugn an order passed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the first respondent herein, directing the petitioners, who are stock brokers, not to undertake any fresh business as brokers till the inquiry proceedings, which have been initiated against them, under regulation 28 of the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992, and regulation 13 of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Markets) Regulations, 1995, are completed and further decisions are taken thereon by the first respondent. The order is passed on October 30, 1998, and was directed to come into effect from November 2, 1998. 2. In these petitions, a chamber summons has been taken out on behalf of Shri Jasmin B. Shah, seeking intervention in the petitions and for permission to make submissions on the merits of the case. The said intervener had earlier filed, in this court, Writ Petition No. 1156 of 1998 seeking directions against the respondents herein for carrying out investigation for the purpose of taking action in respect of rigging of certain scrips. The petition was disposed of on September 4, 1998, by passing the following order: 3. In our view, having regard to the filing of the aforesaid Writ Petition No. 1156 of 1998, by the intervener and having regard to the aforesaid order, which records a statement on behalf of respondent No. 1 that the petitioner will be informed of the completion of the investigation and the proposed action, we find that the intervener is entitled to be heard in the present petitions. Leave is accordingly granted to take out the chamber summons under Rule 121 of the High Court, Original Side Rules. The same is made returnable forthwith and is made absolute in terms of prayer Clause (a). No orders as to costs. Prayer Clause (a) : 4. The present petitions raise a challenge to the vires of Sections 11 and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. Having

regard to the nature of the challenge to the aforesaid provisions, we issue rule and direct notice to be issued to the Attorney-General of India. 5. As far as interim reliefs, which are claimed in the petitions are concerned, we have heard learned counsel appearing for the contending parties at considerable length. It is first contended on behalf of the petitioners that the present order, which is purported to have been passed under Section 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, has been passed without notice to the petitioners and without their being offered a reasonable opportunity of being heard. The said order, which has been passed in violation of the principles of natural justice, is non-est and, therefore, cannot be permitted to operate against the petitioners. The said order deprives the petitioners of their fundamental right to carry on business. The petitioners cannot be deprived of the same without following the procedure provided under the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992. The said Regulations provide for a detailed procedure before any penalty in respect of suspension or cancellation of a broker's licence can be issued. The present order, which is passed without following the said procedure is, therefore, null and void especially as it contravenes the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 19 , 21 and 14 of the Constitution. 6. Reliance is placed on a decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Swadeshi Cotton Mills Co. Ltd. v. Union of India . The Supreme Court, while dealing with the doctrine of the principles of natural justice, has observed as under : 7. Reliance is next placed on the case of Liberty Oil Mills v. Union of India , , wherein it has, inter alia, been observed, as under (pages 1284-86) : 8. It is next contended that the impugned order has been passed by the chairman of the SEBI and not by the Board itself. Section 11B entrusts powers of issuing directions to the Board and not to the chairman. The impugned order not having been passed by the authority authorised is null and void on this ground also. In the circumstances, it is contended that this is a fit case where the impugned order should be stayed. 9. The present petitions are resisted on behalf of the respondents by filing an affidavit of Shri Anant Barua, Divisional Chief of respondent No. 1 wherein it is, inter alia, averred, as under : 10. It is, inter alia, contended on behalf of the respondents that the afore said order merely prohibits the petitioners from undertaking any fresh business as a broker. The same does not amount to suspension or cancellation of the broker's licence and is, therefore, not by way of penalty. The said order does not prohibit the petitioners from carrying on transactions which they have already entered into but merely prohibits them from entering into fresh business. The same is an interim arrangement so as to protect the interests of the investors and the securities market. The said directions have been issued after a preliminary inquiry has been conducted by recording statements of various witnesses, including those of the petitioners. One of the reports in respect of the inquiry has been furnished to the Board and investigation into the other is in progress. As far as the inquiry report is concerned, the same cannot be disclosed to the petitioners as it would prejudice the further progress of investigation. Since the inquiry is incomplete, the contents of the inquiry cannot be disclosed as it would expose the investigative content. 11. It is next contended that the petitioners have an alternate and efficacious remedy of an appeal both under Section 20 of the Act and under regulation 32 of the SEBI Regulations. It would, therefore, not be open to the petitioners to invoke the writ jurisdiction of this court. 12. Taking the second point--in regard to the availability of the remedy of an appeal first, we find that the same cannot be a bar to the exercise of writ jurisdiction. When an alternate remedy is available it is merely a rule of convenience that a writ court may not exercise jurisdiction and may

direct the party to avail of the alternate remedy. Availability of an alternate remedy, however, cannot oust the exercise of writ jurisdiction. In a proper case even though an alternate remedy is available, the writ court would still be fully justified in exercising its writ jurisdiction. In the case of State of V. P. v. Mohammad Nooh, AIR 1958 SC 86, 93, it has been observed, as under : 13. As far as the present case is concerned, the present order was issued on October 30, 1998, and was served on the petitioners nn October 31, 1998. 30th October, 1998, was a Friday and 31st October, 1998, was a Saturday. The order was to be brought into force on Monday, the 2nd of November, 1998. The petitioners, therefore, could not be expected to avail of the remedy of appeal on Sunday, the 1st of November, 1998, and secure ad interim orders of stay. The petitioners were accordingly constrained to move this court on

the 1st of November, 1998, and this court passed an ad interim order in their favour. In the circumstances, we find that the present petitions cannot be thrown out on the ground that petitioners have a right of appeal. The petitioners are, therefore, entitled to agitate their claim in the present petition. 14. As regards the first contention, we find prima facie, that the petitioners have failed to make out a prima facie case in their favour so as to claim the interim reliefs prayed for in the petition. 15. Section 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (for short "the SEBI Act ") provides for the management of the Board. The same provides that the Board shall consist of a chairman and other officers mentioned therein. Sub-section (2) of Section 4 invests the general superintendence and management of the affairs of the Board in the board of members. Sub-section (3) of Section 4 which is material for the enquiry at hand, provides as under : 16. Whereas it is contended on behalf of the petitioners that the chairman, under the aforesaid provision, will not be entitled to exercise all powers and do all acts and things which may be exercised or done by the Board as the same is excepted by the regulations by use of the phrase "save as otherwise" determined by regulations". As far as the regulations are concerned, the same confer the power only on the Board and not on the chairman. It is, however, the contention of the respondents that even though regulations may not have conferred the aforesaid powers on the chairman, the aforesaid provision does confer the said powers on the chairman. The phrase "save as otherwise determined by the regulations" covers only the phrase immediately following, i.e., "the chairman shall also have powers of general superintendence and direction of the affairs of the Board". The same does not qualify what follows thereafter, i.e., "and may also exercise all powers and do all acts and things which may be exercised or done by the Board". In our view, it is not necessary to dilate over this controversy as under Section 19 there is an independent power of delegation and the Board in the instant case has delegated its powers on the chairman. Section 19 provides, as under : 17. In the instant case, counsel for the respondents, has placed for our perusal, a resolution passed by the Board, on August 12, 1997, which, inter

alia, provides that the chairman is authorised and shall be competent to take action for any default under the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act , Rules and Regulations. In view of the aforesaid delegation, we have no hesitation in holding that the chairman of the first respondent is fully justified in taking the impugned action. 18. Section 11 deals with the functions of the Board. Sub-section (1) of Section 
11 imposes a duty on the Board to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market by such measures as it thinks fit. The measures mentioned include measures for regulating the business in stock exchanges and any other securities markets, registering and regulating the working of stock brokers, sub-brokers, share transfer agents, etc. The same includes provision for calling for information undertaking inspection, conducting inquiries and audits of the stock exchanges, mutual funds, other persons associated with the securities market, intermediaries and self-regulatory organisations in the securities market. 19. Section 11B of the Act deals with the power of the Board to issue directions. The same provides as under : 20. The aforesaid provision, therefore, empowers the Board to issue directions for the purpose of securing the proper management of intermediaries or persons, as may be appropriate in the interests of the investors in securities and securities market. Section 12 deals with registration of stock-brokers, sub-brokers, share transfer agents, etc. Sub-section (3) of Section 
12 empowers the Board by passing an order to suspend or cancel the certificate of registration in such manner as may be determined by regulations. The proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 12 reads as under : 21. The aforesaid provision, which is found in Section 12 is in regard to the penalty of suspension or cancellation of a certificate of registration. This under the proviso, no doubt can be done only after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard. However, this is not what has been done in the instant case. A preliminary inquiry into the conduct of the petitioners has been conducted. A part of the preliminary inquiry is complete and it is found that the petitioners have been indulging in malpractices. Hence, in order to safeguard the interests of the investors and to maintain the integrity of the market the petitioners have been directed not to undertake any fresh business as brokers till the inquiry proceedings are completed and further proceedings in the matter are taken. This, in our view, is an interim measure which the chairman of the first respondent is fully justified in taking. 22. It may be useful at this stage to peruse some of the provisions of the SEBI (Stock-Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as "the Regulations, 1992"), and the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Markets) Regulations, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as "the Regulations, 1995"). Chapter V of the Regulations, 1992, deals with the procedure for inspection, Regulation 19 deals with the right of the Board to inspect. Regulation 20 provides for the procedure for inspection. Regulation 21 deals with the duties and obligations of stock brokers in respect of the inspection. Regulation 22 deals with submission of the report to the Board and regulation 23 deals with the communication of findings of the inspecting authority to the Board. Chapter VI, thereafter, deals with the procedure for taking action in case of default. The same provides for penalties either of suspension of registration for a specified period or of cancellation of registration. Regulation 27 provides for holding of an inquiry before a penalty of suspension or cancellation can be imposed. Regulation 28 deals with the manner of holding inquiry. Regulation 28(7) provides for the inquiry officer to submit a report to the Board by recommending penalty to be awarded along with the justification of the penalty proposed. Regulation 29 , thereafter, postulates the issue of a further show-cause notice to show cause why the penalty proposed should not be imposed. The said regulation, thereafter, empowers the Board to impose the penalty after considering the reply to the show-cause notice. 23. Having regard to the aforesaid provisions, it is strenuously contended on behalf of the petitioners that the impugned order has virtually put a death-knell on the business of the petitioners. The same has undoubtedly stopped their entire business. It is, therefore, virtually an order passed under Section 12 and this can be done only after affording the petitioners a reasonable opportunity of being heard. In our prima facie view the impugned order cannot be said to have been passed under Section 12 as

contended but the same has been passed under Section 11B . It is in the nature of a direction restraining the petitioners from carrying on their business of dealing in shares. The same has been passed pending the inquiry into the manipulations. The same has been passed in the interests of investors and in the interests of the securities market. 24. Section 11B of the SEBI Act is an enabling provision enacted to empower the SEBI to protect the interest of investors and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market and to prevent malpractices and manipulations, inter alia, by brokers, Such an enabling provision must be construed so as to subserve the purpose for which it is enacted. It would be the duty of the court to further the legislative object of providing a remedy for the mischief. A construction which advances this object should be preferred rather than one which attempts to find a way to circumvent it. In the case of Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. , the Supreme Court has observed, as under : 25. In the case of Ch. Ramarao v. Lohayukta , it is observed by the Supreme Court, as under : 26. In the case of ITO v. M. K. Mohammed Kunhi [1969] 71 ITR 815 ; AIR 1969 SC 430, it has been observed, as under (headnote of ITR) : 27. Therefore, in our view, the express grant statutory power conferred by Section 11B carries the authority to use reasonable means to make such power effective. 28. If one has regard to the aforesaid principles, it would follow that the power which has been conferred by Section 11B to issue directions are of the widest possible amplitude and are exercisable in the interests of investors and in order to prevent, inter alia, a broker from conducting his business in a manner detrimental to the interests of the investors or the securities market. The said power to issue directions under Section 11B must carry with it, by necessary implication, all powers and duties incidental and necessary to make the exercise of these powers fully effective including the power to pass interim orders in aid of the final orders. The provision of Section 11B , it is to be noted, has been introduced by an amend ment brought about in 1995 and the same seeks to confer additional power on the Board, by way of interim measures, pending inquiry. The same is intended for the protection of the interests of the investors and the securities markets. 29. The impugned orders, in our prima facie view, are fully justified. The petitioners, in the circumstances, are not entitled to interim reliefs claimed in the petition. Ad interim orders passed on November 1, 1998, and continued by an order passed on November 3, 1998, are vacated. 30. At this stage, counsel for the petitioners apply for stay of the present orders, as also for continuation of the aforesaid ad interim orders. Counsel for the respondents strongly opposes the same. 31. Having regard to the attendant facts and circumstances of the case, we permit the petitioners, for a period of four weeks from today, to trade in shares and securities other than BPL, Videocon, Sterlite and Nedungadi Bank Ltd. The petitioners' during the aforesaid period of four weeks will not trade in the aforementioned shares and securities.