We missed this earlier: A Chinese government-linked cyberattack compromised multiple American Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and may even have gained access to wiretaps placed by federal agencies on the networks, reported the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on October 5. The hacking campaign, called Salt Typhoon, attacked major communications providers like Verizon, AT&T, and Lumen Technologies, and was able to collect information on millions of American citizens and businesses.

Chinese hackers sought to establish a foothold in American infrastructure through the intrusion, intending to leverage it later for espionage or even sabotage, WSJ reported. Investigators are still working to confirm the extent of the attack.

In the same month, U.S. officials found and disrupted a network of more than 200,000 routers, cameras and other devices that were compromised by another Chinese group called Flax Typhoon. Another threat actor called Volt Typhoon targeted critical US infrastructure in January.

In June, Dutch Intelligence unearthed an expansive Chinese cyber-espionage campaign that infected at least 20,000 FortiGate devices worldwide, including those used by Western governments, diplomatic and the defence industry.

Similarly, a US Department of Homeland Security report revealed that in May and June 2023, another threat actor known as Storm-0558 gained access to the Microsoft Exchange Online Mailboxes of hundreds of individuals. These included high-ranking officials such as Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, United States Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China R. Nicholas Burns, and Congressman Don Bacon.

Back in India, China is suspected to be behind the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) cyber attack in 2022 which locked the institute’s servers and demanded a Rs 200 crore ransom, a report from cybersecurity firm Sentinel One suggested .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event