Seventeenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Reported alleged use of Spyware Pegasus to compromise phone data of some persons as reported in media on 18th July, 2021. THE MINISTER OF RAILWAYS, MINISTER OF COMMUNICATIONS AND MINISTER OF ELECTRONICS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (SHRI ASHWINI VAISHNAW): Hon. Speaker, Sir, I rise to make a statement on the reported use of spyware Pegasus to compromise phone data of some persons. …(Interruptions) A highly sensational story was published by a web portal yesterday night. Many over the top allegations have been made around this story. …(Interruptions) Hon. Speaker, Sir, the Press reports have appeared a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament. This cannot be a coincidence. …(Interruptions) In the past, similar claims were made regarding the use of Pegasus on WhatsApp. Those reports had no factual basis and were categorically denied by all parties, including in the Supreme Court. The Press reports of 18th July, 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well-established institutions. …(Interruptions) We cannot fault those who have not read the news story in detail. I request all hon. Members of the House to examine the issues on facts and logic. …(Interruptions) The basis of this report is that there is a consortium which has got access to a leaked database of 50,000 phone numbers. The allegation is that individuals linked to these phone numbers were being spied upon. However, the report says that: Hon. Speaker, Sir, when we look at this issue through the prism of logic, it clearly emerges that there is no substance whatsoever behind this sensationalism. Thank you, hon. Speaker, Sir. …(Interruptions) [Placed in Library, See No.LT 4344A/17/21] माननीय अध्यक्ष : माननीय सदस्यगण, सरकार ने भी कहा है कि वह हर विषय और हर मुद्दे पर चर्चा करने के लिए तैयार है । मैं सभी माननीय सदस्यों से आग्रह करूंगा कि आप जनहित और देशहित में मुद्दों को उठाएं और चर्चा करें, तो उचित रहेगा । यही संसद की मर्यादा है । …(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष: सभा की कार्यवाही मंगलवार, दिनांक 20 जुलाई, 2021 को प्रात: 11 बजे तक के लिए स्थगित की जाती है । …(व्यवधान) 15.38 hrs 

The Lok Sabha then adjourned till Eleven of the Clock on 

Tuesday, July 20, 2021/Ashadha 29, 1943 (Saka) 

   

 

  

  
 

                                                                                

  
 

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   

   

 INTERNET 

  

           The Original Version of Lok Sabha proceedings is available on Parliament of India Website and Lok Sabha Website at the following addresses: