These are intra court appeals filed under Section 4 of

the Karnataka High Court Act, 1961. 2. Since these two appeals arise from the order of the

learned single Judge in W.P. No.106417/2016 dated

21.09.2017 and the issues involved being inter related,

the same are heard together and disposed of by this

common order. 3. Facts in brief are, the State Election Commission

issued calendar of events on 18.01.2016 to hold general

elections of the Zilla Panchayats and Taluk Panchayats in

the State of Karnataka. The election for Ballari Zilla

Panchayat was held on 20.02.2016. The Ballari Zilla

Panchayat consists of 40 constituencies. The appellant in

W.A. No.5872/2017 (hereinafter referred to as the

'appellant') contested from Badanhatti Constituency - 13

which is reserved for General (Women). The appellant got 7 elected as a member of Ballari Zilla Panchayat from

Badanhatti Constituency-13. After the elections to the

Zilla Panchayat, the Government announced the

reservations for the post of Adhyaksha and Upadhyaksha

of all 30 Zilla Panchayats of the State. In respect of

Ballari Zilla Panchayat, Adhyaksha post was reserved for

the Backward Community-B and Upadhyaksha was

reserved for the scheduled caste. The appellant made an

application before the concerned authority for the caste

certificate. The concerned authority granted a certificate

to the effect that the appellant belongs to 'Backward

Community-B' Category. 4. The appellant contested the election of Adhyaksha of

Ballari Zilla Panchayat, which was held on 29.04.2016

and she got elected as Adhyaksha of the Ballari Zilla

Panchayat. The voters of the said constituency filed W.P.

No.106417/2016 before this Court challenging the

election of the appellant to the office of Adhyaksha mainly 8 on the ground that the appellant is not qualified

contestant for the election of Adhyaksha since she does

not belong to 'Backward Community-B' category in terms

of the notification dated 13.01.1995 issued by the

Government of Karnataka. The learned Single Judge

dismissed the writ petition on the ground of constitutional

bar under Article 243-O. 5. The respondents being aggrieved by the order of the

learned Single Judge filed W.A. No.101459/2016 before

this Court. The Division Bench of this Court by order

dated 05.05.2017 allowed the writ appeal and remanded

the matter to the learned Single Judge to decide the same

on merits. The appellant being aggrieved by the order of

Division Bench of this Court filed a Special Leave Petition

No.17059/2017 before the Hon'ble Apex Court. The

Hon'ble Apex Court by order dated 17.08.2017 after

upholding the order of the Division Bench of this Court 9 directed the learned Single Judge to decide the case on

merits. 6. In the meantime, the appellant filed W.P.

No.108700/2017 before this Court questioning the legality

and validity of the notification dated 13.01.1995. This

Court was pleased to stay the 'Note' under 'category-B' of

the notification dated 13.01.1995, by order dated

01.09.2017 as far as the appellant is concerned. 7. Pursuant to the directions issued by the Hon'ble

Apex Court, the learned Single Judge of this Court

considered the case on merits and disposed of the W.P.

No.106417/2016 on 21.09.2017 issuing a writ of quo

warranto directing the appellant to vacate the office of

Adhyaksha, Zilla Panchayat, Ballari, quashing Annexure-

H to the writ petition whereby respondent No.6 was

declared as Adhyaksha of Zilla Panchayat, Ballari.

However, the prayer relating to annul the caste certificate

issued to the appellant vide order dated 26.04.2016 in 10 Application No.1/16-17 issued by the Tahsildar,

Kurugodu, Ballari (respondent No.5 in W.P.

No.106417/2016) was rejected observing that the caste

verification committee shall independently hold an enquiry

and dispose of the case in accordance with law. 8. Being aggrieved by the order of the learned Single

Judge, the appellant has preferred W.A. No.5872/2017, as

regards issuance of quo warranto, directing the appellant

to vacate the office of Adhyaksha, Zilla Panchayat, Ballari,

whereas the petitioners No.1 to 4 in W.P.

No.106417/2016/respondents No.6 to 9 in W.A.

No.5872/2017 have preferred W.A. No.100657/2017

(hereinafter referred to as the 'respondents') as against the

rejection of annulment of Caste Certificate issued by the

jurisdictional Tahsildar. 9. Learned Senior Counsel Sri Ravi Verma Kumar

representing the learned counsel Sri Gangadhar J.M., for

the appellant contended as under : Union of India and another, (2010) 7 SCC 202, to

contend that the doctrine of 'creamy layer' has no

application to backward classes for the purpose of

reservation in political institution, the notification

dated 13.01.1995 insofar as it applies the doctrine of

'creamy layer' to the persons coming under

'Category-B' of the backward classes is therefore

unjust and unconstitutional from the date of

declaration of law by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

K.Krishna Murthy supra. Learned Senior Counsel

referred to the interim order of stay of 'Note'

appended to the Notification dated 13.01.1995 13 issued by this Court in W.P. No.108700/2017 as far

 as the appellant is concerned. Reference was made

 to Articles 243-D(6) and 243-T(6) of the Constitution

 of India in addition to Article 243-O of the

 Constitution of India. ISSUANCE OF QUO WARRANTO : In the absence of necessary party made by name,

 the allegations against the Tahasildar requires to be

 dismissed for non-joinder of necessary party. 10. Learned Senior Counsel Sri S.M. Chandrashekar,

representing the learned counsel Sri Rajashekar Burji

appearing for the respondent Nos.6 to 9 submitted as

under: 11. Inviting the attention of this Court to Annexure-E,

Affidavit filed by the appellant dated 6.2.2016 pointed out

that for the Financial Year 2013-14, income tax returns

were filed with number 574525430010615 dated

8.6.2015, PAN number being BCCPR700784. On

26.04.2016, the appellant has filed another affidavit

stating that the appellant and her husband are not the

income tax assesses nor sales tax assesses. This

Certificate was made by the appellant on the stamp paper, 19 dated 26.04.2016 issued at 5.27 p.m. On the same day,

5th respondent-Tahasildar had issued caste cum income

verification certificate for the purpose of election, certifying

that the appellant belongs to backward Class B Category

and this certificate has been issued based on the

application of the applicant dated 25.04.2016. The said

two declarations made by the applicant are prima facie

contradictory to each other. At the first instance, it was

categorically declared by the appellant on 06.02.2016 that

she is an income tax assessee but in order to obtain B

Category backward certificate, the appellant has made

false statement that she is not an income tax assessee.

Any certificate obtained by fraud is nullity in the eye of

law. Any further proceedings claiming any benefits under

the certificate is vitiated. In support of this contention,

learned Senior Counsel placed reliance on the following

judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court: I) STATE OF ORISSA V/S BIBISHAN KANHAR,
 CIVIL APPEAL NO.9124/2017. II) CHAIRMAN & MANAGING DIRECTOR FCI &
 ORS. VS. JAGADISH BALARAM BAHIRA &
 ORS., CIVIL APPEAL NO.8928/2015 . III) K. VENKATACHALAM VS. A SWAMICKAN &
 ANOTHER , AIR 1999 SC 1723. Thus, it was contended that the act alleged against

the appellant would not only constitute fraud, but in effect

committing fraud on the Constitution, as she has usurped

the office of the Adhyaksha to discharge duties under the

Constitution of India and the Panchayat Raj Act, 1993. The appellant is holding a public office of Adhyaksha

of Zilla Panchayat, Bellary Dist. The qualification for

election/holding of office is a by a person belonging to 'B'

Group-Women Category, by virtue of Notification dated

15.04.2016 to qualify herself for the post, the appellant

obtained a certificate from jurisdictional Tahasildar. The

said certificate is obtained by making false statement and

misrepresentation and also after office hours. Thus, she

has usurped public office which she has is not otherwise

entitled. Further, the Government in a proceedings dated

26.07.2016 has suspended Tahasildar (Respondent No.5

in WA No.100657/2017) for issuing the false caste

certificate in favour of the appellant, which demonstrates

that the appellant was not entitled for the said caste cum 22 income certificate. The following judgments were referred

to: 17. The Hon'ble Apex Court, while summing up, has

categorically held thus : under Article 243- D(6) and Article 243-T(6) should be
 distinct from the identification of SEBCs for the
 purpose of Article 15(4) and that of backward classes
 for the purpose of Article 16(4). (iv) The upper ceiling of 50% vertical
 reservations in favour of SCs/STs/OBCs should not be
 breached in the context of local self-government.
 Exceptions can only be made in order to safeguard the
 interests of Scheduled Tribes in the matter of their
 representation in panchayats located in the Scheduled
 Areas. (v) The reservation of chairperson posts in the
 manner contemplated by Articles 243-D(4) and 243-
 T(4) is constitutionally valid. These chairperson posts
 cannot be equated with solitary posts in the context of
 public employment." 18. In the case of Kurapati Maria Das supra, the candidate

elected as Councillor and further elected as chairperson of the

Municipal Councillor, which was reserved for the scheduled

caste on the basis of claiming himself belonging to scheduled

caste was challenged on the ground that the candidate belong 35 to the backward Class 'C' category as he was an M converted to

Christianity. The learned single Judge concluded that the writ

petition was maintainable and thus allowed it. Appeal filed

before the Division Bench was dismissed against which appeal

was preferred before the Hon'ble Apex court in the said

scenario it was observed thus : 19. The Division Bench of this Court in the case of

Smt.Raniyamma supra, while considering the challenge made

to the election to the office of Adhyaksha and Upadhyaksha of 38 the Zilla Panchayat and thereby seeking for issuance of writ of

quo warranto against the elected candidates, restraining them

from functioning as the Adhyaksha of Shimoga District, Zilla

Panchayat, Kulugatte Gram Panchayat, has observed thus : warranto. After referring to the observations of
 Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edition, Vol.II, P.145,
 the Supreme Court in UNIVERSITY OF MYSORE vs.
 C.D. GOVINDA RAO AND ANOTHER , observed : 10. Quo warranto is a remedy given by law at
the discretion of the Court. The powers under Article
226 of the Constitution are of discretionary nature
though the discretion has to be exercised in 40 accordance with judicial principles. Mere irregularity
in the matter of appointment can not be a ground for
the issuance of writ of quo warranto. The Kerala High
Court in ALEX BEETS, v. M.A. URMESE AND
ANOTHER , AIR 1970 KER 312, and Delhi High Court
in S.C. MALIK v. P.P. SHARMA, AIR 1982 Delhi 83,
refused the motion for writ of quo-warranto where
order of appointment though violating Article 16 was
shown by the respondents. It was observed that the
ground under Article 16 may be heard in a motion of
Certiorari or prohibition but cannot be heard in a quo
warranto. As Quo warranto is a discretionary remedy,
the existence of alternative remedy will, therefore, be
taken into consideration in determining whether quo
warranto should be issued or not. The Court would
generally refuse to issue such a writ where there is
equally an efficacious alternative remedy available. Speaking for the Court CHAGLA C.J. in BHAIRULAL
CHUNILAL v. STATE OF BOMBAY , AIR 1954 Bombay
116, held: 20. In the case of Gujarat Kishan Mazdoor Panchayat supra, the decision to fill up the post of President of Industrial

Court by way of nomination, as provided under the Rules was

challenged inter alia seeking for a writ of quo warranto, the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the concurring judgment of Hon'ble

Justice S.B. Sinha observed thus: 21. In the case of K.J. Joseph supra, a writ of quo warranto

was sought for calling upon the Hon'ble sitting Judge of the

Kerala High court to show before the Court under what

authority, the first respondent is holding the office of a Judge

of the court on the ground that there was no proper, effective

and meaningful consultation as contemplated under Article

217 of the Constitution of India in the matter of the

appointment of the first respondent as a Judge of the Court. In

such circumstances, it was observed thus : 14. I feel that in a writ of quo warranto, this
court has no jurisdiction or power to examine and
explore the mind of the appointing authority. What all
facts entered the mind of the appointing authority in 44 appointing a particular person seems to be not a
 relevant fact to be considered in a proceeding for a writ
 of quo warranto. This is so because the main question
 that is before the court for determination is the title of
 the person who holds the office. It is a case of an
 examination whether the first respondent concerned is
 a usurper. This court's function is circumscribed to a
 query to the person in question "what is your authority
 to hold the office"? Of course, he can be asked,
 whether the authority or the warrant he produced is
 by the person who is authorised to make an
 appointment to the office which he holds. The
 petitioner has no case that the first respondent is
 holding the office without a warrant properly signed
 and issued by the President of India and that the
 President has no power to appoint the first respondent
 as a Judge of this Court." 22. The Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in

the case of His Holiness Kesavanand Bharati

Sripadagalvaru Vs. State of Kerala and Anr. supra,

has held that the power of judicial review over legislative

action is a part of the basic structure of the constitution,

which cannot be diluted nor eroded. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of B.R. Kapur ,

supra, has held that in appointment of respondent No.2

therein as the Chief Minister, there being clear

infringement of constitutional provisions, a writ of quo-

warranto must issue, for whatever reasons, the Governor

does appoint the chief minister, a person who is not

qualified to be a member of legislative or who is

disqualified to be such appointment, is contrary to the

provisions to the Constitution and the authority of the

appointee to hold the appointment can be challenged in a

quo-warranto proceedings. 23. In the case of Kasambhai F. Ghanchi supra, the

question which arose for consideration was whether the

appellant therein, who belongs to a backward class but had

been elected to the Jambusar municipality from an unreserved

seat, could stand for election for the post of President of the

Municipality which was reserved for a backward class

candidate or whether a candidate for that post could only be a

person who was elected to the municipality from a caste which 46 was reserved for the backward class. It was held that the

appellant therein who belongs to backward class was eligible to

the office of the President even though she had been elected as

a member of the Municipality not from a reserved seat, but

from a general seat. The respondents herein are not

challenging the election of the appellant on this ground, as

submitted by the learned Senior Counsel for the respondents.

There is no quarrel for the applicability of the said proposition

to the facts of the present case. 24. In the case of Udit Narain Singh Malpaharia supra,

the question that arose for consideration was whether the writ

in the nature of certiorari filed under Article 226 of the

Constitution, the party or parties in whose favour a tribunal or

authority had made an order, which is sought to be quashed, is

or are necessary party or parties. In such circumstances, it

was observed thus : 25. In the case of Nawabkhan Abbaskhan v. State of
Gujarat , (1974) 2 SCC 121, where the petitioner was

effecting of a direction issued by the Police Commissioner, 48 on contravention of the order and was prosecuted but

acquitted by the trial Court in the appeal filed by the State

it was held that the accused had re-entered the forbidden

area during the currency of the order. The High Court

convicted the accused. The reasoning of the High court

was that a distinction has to be drawn between an order

which is ab initio void and an order which is subsequently

quashed on account of some technical defect or

irregularity. If the order was ab initio void if it was a

nullity from the inception, if it was a still born child, the

matter would have stood on a different footing. When the

child was alive and kicking and apparently healthy, the

subsequent death during the course of an exploratory

operation would render the order to be invalid and it was

quashed on the ground that it cannot be sustained on

account of some defect, infirmity or irregularity which has

been subsequently discovered. The Hon'ble Apex Court, in

such circumstances, held that : Kelson's view, when a court holds an act a nullity,
is that it is not a declaration of nullity, "it is a true
annulment, an annulment with retroactive force". 11.Even so, the dilemma of the petitioner is, if
an authority in excess or error of jurisdiction directs
an illegal act, should the citizen suffer it until
upturned in a legal proceeding directly or collaterally?
Can he resist the injury even if the seat of authority
simulates validity ? The eloquent words of Wedderburn
quoted by Rubinstein in the context of nullity are
pertinent: "What is a sentence ? It is not an
 instrument with a bit of wax and the seal of a
 court put to it; it is not an instrument with the
 signature of a person calling himself a register;
 it is not such a quantity of ink bestowed upon
 such a quantity of stamped paper; a sentence is
 a judicial determination of a cause agitated 51 between real parties, upon which a real interest
 has been settled,." 26. In the case of State of Orissa and Another v.

Bibhisan Kanhar supra, the order for removal of the

respondent, who was working as Farash in the office of

the Revenue Divisional Commissioner, Central Division,

Cuttack, was the subject matter before the Hon'ble Apex

Court, whereby it was held thus : 27. In the case of Jagadish Balaram Bahira and

others supra, the Hon'ble Apex Court while considering

the batch of matters relating to the individuals who sought

the benefit of public employment on the basis of claim

that they belong to a beneficiary group which, upon

investigation is found to be invalid. With reference to the

legislation in Maharashtra, held thus : 28. In the case of K.Venkatachalam supra, the

appellant before the Hon'ble Apex Court was not an elector 53 in the electoral roll for the Lalgudi Assembly Constituency

for general elections of December, 1984 and that he in

blatant and fraudulent manner represented to be an

elector of that constituency while using the similarity in

the name of another person. This act on the part of the

appellant therein, was questioned before the learned

Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Madras

who dismissed the writ petition and on appeal filed by

Swamickan, the Division Bench of the High Court declared

the election of Venkatachalam was illegal, issuing the writ

of quo warranto and the same was challenged before the

Hon'ble Apex Court, inasmuch as he did not possess the

basic constitutional and statutory qualifications. In such

circumstances, it was held thus: 29. In the case of Chikkanna supra, the learned Single

Judge of this Court while considering the provisions of

Karnataka Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other

Backward Classes (Reservation of Appointments etc.,) Act,

1990 and Rules 1992 held that the said Act and Rules are

enacted for the purpose of issuing a caste certificate or

validity certificate only in the event of the said certificate

being made use of for the appointment or for getting an

admission to a course in an educational institution. In

case where the petitioner has not made use of the caste

certificate either for appointment in the State or Central

Government or for admission in educational institution

and is used to support his contention that he belongs to

Scheduled Tribe at the time of filing nomination papers to

a reserved constituency, the notice issued by the Deputy 55 Commissioner calling upon him to produce documents for

verification of his caste is held to be without jurisdiction. 30. Similarly, in the case of Smt.Jyothi, the learned

Single Judge of this Court considering the dispute as to

the certificate issued to the petitioner therein by way of an

appeal before the Assistant Commissioner filed under Section 49 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, held

that the caste certificate issued under the provisions of

the Karnataka Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe and

Other Backward Classes (Reservation of Appointments

etc.,) Act, 1990 or Rules for the purpose of education and

employment, if the Certificate is sought under the

provisions of the Panchayathraj Act, it is required to look

into the provisions of the statute only and nothing can be

borrowed from the other Acts/Rules; the Assistant

Commissioner before whom an appeal was preferred

under Section 49 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act was

held not maintainable. In other words, it was held that 56 the Assistant Commissioner has no jurisdiction to annul

the certificate in an appeal filed under Section 49 of the

Karnataka Land Revenue Act. 31. The judgment which is more relevant for the

adjudication of the dispute in these appeals is the very

same appellant's case before the Hon'ble Apex Court in

Civil Appeal No.10587/2017. It is categorically held that

if the petition is dismissed on the ground of

maintainability, the voter, who is not a Member of Zilla

Panchayath and aggrieved by the election of the

Adhyaksha, will remain remediless. Accordingly, it is held

that a voter of Zilla Panchayath who is not a member

cannot be denied an opportunity to challenge the election

to the office of Adhyaksha under Article 226/227 of the

Constitution of India. The writ petition filed by

respondents before this Court is held to be maintainable. 57 32. In the light of these judgments, the appeals on hand

are examined and analysed. Considering the rival

submissions of both the parties, the points that arises for

consideration in these appeals are: 33. As regards point No.1, it is well settled law that the

High Court exercising the power under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India can issue a writ of quo warranto, if

the following conditions are satisfied: 34. Indisputably, the appellant is holding a public Office

of Adhyaksha of Zilla Panchayath, Bellary District. The 59 qualification for election/holding the Office is by a person

belonging to Backward Class 'B' Group - Woman Category

by virtue of Notification dated 15.04.2016. To qualify for

the said post, the conditions prescribed under the

Notification dated 13.01.1995 issued by the Government

of Karnataka are required to be fulfilled. The said

Notification issued by the Government of Karnataka

exercising the powers conferred by clause (2) of Section 2

of the Karnataka Panchayathraj Act, 1993, classifies and

notifies the classes of citizens as Backward Classes for the

purpose of reservation of seats and office of Chair Persons

in Zilla Panchayath, Taluk Panchayath and Grama

Panchayath, namely category 'A' and 'B'. Category 'A'

consists of 190 castes. Category 'B' consists of 9 castes.

It is the claim of the appellant that she belongs to Kapu

caste which is figured at category 'B' - 1 (n). The note

appended to the said Notification plays an important role

in the present set of facts, particularly, clause (ii) which

reads thus: 35. Clause (ii) of the said 'Note' specifies that the

returning candidate or either of his/her parents/guardian

if an Income-tax Assessee/Wealth Tax Assessee, is not

entitled for the benefit of reservation in the seats and

offices of Adhyaksha and Upadhyaksha of Zilla

Panchayath, Taluk Panchayath and Grama Panchayath.

It is relevant to note that on 06.02.2016, the appellant has

filed an affidavit on India Non-Judicial, Government of

Karnataka, e-Stamp Paper, to the effect that she has filed

the income tax returns for the financial year 2013-2014

through e-filing No.574525430010615 dated 08.06.2015

with PAN No.BCCPR 70784 which is marked as

Annexure-E to W.P. No.106417/2016. As narrated in the

preceding paragraph Nos.12 and 13, supra, the appellant

filed an application before the jurisdictional Tahsildar for 61 issue of Caste cum Income Certificate on 22.04.2016 in

the prescribed format as per the Notification dated

13.01.1995. On considering the same, the jurisdictional

Revenue Inspector has issued notice to the appellant

calling upon her to rectify the defects pointed out,

pursuant to which, the appellant filed an affidavit (¥Àª
 æ ÀiÁt

¥Àv)Àæ on India, Non-Judicial, Government of Karnataka, e-

stamp paper issued on 26.04.2016 at 5.27 p.m. declaring

that the appellant and her husband are neither income

tax assesses nor sales tax assesses. Annexure-G to the

Writ Petition No.106417/2016 is the application filed by

the appellant in the prescribed format in terms of the

notification dated 13.1.1995, whereby in Clause - 11, it is

stated that the applicant or their father/mother/guardian

are not the assessee of income tax/wealth tax. This is the

moot point which requires to be considered to decide

whether the appellant has played any fraud on the

constitution. 36. It is not in dispute that any affidavit filed before the

authorities has sanctity in the eye of law and the same, if

found to be false statement and misrepresentation, it is a

case of perjury punishable under criminal law. Based on

the statement declared by the appellant, the jurisdictional

Tahasildar has issued verification certificate certifying that

the appellant belongs to backward Class-B Category in

terms of the notification dated 13.1.1995. It is not in

dispute that the statements were made by the appellant

on the E-stamp paper issued on 26.04.2016 at 5.27 p.m.

and the jurisdictional Tahasildar has issued the certificate

on the very same day i.e. 26.04.2016, based on the

application bearing No.01/16-17, dated 25.04.2016.

Fraud played by the appellant is manifest from the

certificate issued by the jurisdictional Tahasildar. Based

on these facts, the Government of Karnataka has now

suspended the jurisdictional Tahasildar for providing false

certificate. On 06.02.2016, the appellant swearing to

an affidavit that she is an income-tax assessee, furnishing 63 the PAN card details, subsequently giving statements

before the Revenue Inspector that she is not a PAN card

holder and not an income tax assessee prima facie proves

the fraudulent act of the appellant. In addition to that

filing a false affidavit in order to usurp a public office is

highly deplorable. In such circumstances, if the appellant

is continued to chair and hold the office of Adhyaksha, her

action would be fraud on the constitution. The appellant

in order to over-come this serious lapse on her part in

obtaining the false certificate to make herself qualified

candidate for the office of Adhyaksha has now taken a

ground that 'note' appended to the notification dated

13.1.1995 is constitutionally invalid and contrary to the

dictum pronounced by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case

of Krishna Murthy supra. Much emphasis is placed on

doctrine of exclusion of creamy layer in the political

representation. 37. It is obvious that the appellant has filed WP

No.108700/2017 challenging the note contemplated

under notification dated 13.1.1995 and an order of stay of

the 'note' in the said notification in so far as the petitioner

is concerned is operating w.e.f. 01.09.2017. The interim

order of stay of the 'note' as far as the petitioner is

concerned is a subsequent act. The contravention of the

notification is made by the appellant at the time of

obtaining the false caste-cum-income certificate on

26.04.2016, whereas the interim order of the note is

granted by this Court vide order dated 01.09.2017. In

such circumstances, any contravention made/fraud

played, basis of which has been subsequently stayed,

admittedly not being available at the relevant time i.e.,

while committing fraudulent act of obtaining the false

certificate would not validate such fraudulent act. There

being no interim order of stay of the 'note' appended to the

notification dated 13.1.1995, at the relevant material time,

would it exonerate the appellant from the guilt has to be 65 examined. The notification dated 13.1.1995 with the

'note' prescribing the conditions was already alive and was

in operation. If subsequently, its operation is stayed, it

cannot be said that the said notification was void. The

notification does not render nullity from its inception, the

interim order of stay of the note is not retrospective. Note

is stayed w.e.f. the date of issuance of the stay order. The

mis-conduct committed cannot be wiped out by virtue of

an interim order subsequently granted, the fraudulent act

continues to remain a mis-conduct. The interim relief is

granted only in aid of, and ancillary to, the main relief

which may be available to a party on final determination

of his right in the proceedings. It is to ensure that the

final relief that may be granted does not become

infructuous or to ensure that the ends of justice are not

defeated. Interim orders are only therefore necessarily

always subject to the final order and normally come to an

end or become ineffective when the final decision is

rendered. The interim order can always be corrected or 66 revised at the final stage, it is only to preserve any status-

quo to rights of the parties, which is tentative in nature.

Merely granting of an interim order would not eschew the

appellant from the applicability of the 'note' appended to

the notification retroactively at the time of making false

statements. Any attempt or claim made by the appellant

to interpret the notification in anticipation that the court

shall uphold her contention and violate the conditions of

the notification cannot be appreciated. Disobeying and

later on seeking for legitimizing disobedience by the court

would not extinguish from the misconduct already

committed. The false certificate obtained by the appellant

on making false declaration that she was not an income

tax assessee is nothing but usurping the power of a public

office. A chair person of the office or Adhyaksha of the

Zilla Panchayath who is holding a public office must be

free from any flaw. If such public officer acts fraudulently

and deliberately files a false affidavit, it is necessarily to be

construed as serious criminal mis-conduct. Fraud of 67 colossal proportion would be in complete violation of the

constitution and laws. 38. The view expressed in Swamickan 's case is not

over-ruled by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of

Kurapati Maria Das. The judgment of Kurapati Maria

Das was rendered in the context of determining the caste

status of the returning candidate, which was disputed

question of fact depending upon the evidence. Since the

question of facts were involved, regarding the caste,

entertaining the writ petition going into the disputed

question of fact regarding the caste status, was held to be

unsustainable. But the facts in the present case are

clearly distinguishable from Kurapati Maria Das supra

and the judgment of K. Venkatachalam Vs. A

Swamickan 's case supra, is squarely applicable to the

case on hand. Similarly, B.R. Kapur 's case also comes to

the assistance of the respondents. In Nawabkhan

Abbaskhan 's case, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that 68 voidable acts are subject to collateral attacks. Hence, we

are of the considered view that the appellant holding a

public office has misrepresented and usurped the power

and as such issuance of the writ of quo warranto by the

learned single Judge directing the appellant to vacate the

office of Adhyaksha from Zilla Panchayath is in order. 39. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of K. Krishna

Murthy supra while summing up, has categorically held

that "this Court is not in a position to examine the claims

about overbreadth in the quantum of reservations provided

for OBCs under the impugned State legislations since there

is no contemporaneous empirical data. The onus is on the

executive to conduct a rigorous investigation into the

patterns of backwardness that act as barriers to political

participation which indeed quite different from the patterns

of disadvantages in the matter of access to education and

employment". 40. The finding regarding creamy layer is kept open for

being challenged with reference to the notification/statute

before the High Court. The arguments of the learned

counsel for the appellant that the concept of exclusion of

creamy layer from a political representation has to be

considered from the date of the judgment rendered by the

Hon'ble Apex Court i.e. 11.05.2010 and has to be made

applicable to the notification dated 13.1.1995 , cannot be

countenanced for the reason that unless there is judicial

pronouncement to that effect, quashing the eligibility

conditions, the notification cannot be adjudged by the

appellant on her own to commit a fraud in obtaining a

false certificate on the false statement made. Even if there

is any such judicial order, it has to be in operation on the

relevant date, at the time of committing the mis-conduct.

Subject to provisions made by imposing certain conditions

qualifying the candidate for the post of Adhyaksha cannot

be hosted when an imposter, who does not possess such

qualification is selected, the purpose of the notification 70 would be defeated and it would amount to fraud on the

constitution. 41. In view of the latest judgment of the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the very case of appellant, Smt. Bharathi Reddy

supra, the judgment of the Smt. Raniyamma's case

supra is of no assistance to the appellant. The availability

of filing of election petition under the Karnataka

Panchayat Raj Act, 1993 , is not available to the

respondents, they being voters and not the members of

the Zilla Panchayath. This issue is no more res integra, in

view of Bharathi Reddy's case supra. It is well settled by

now that if a person files false certificates to usurp the

post of Adhyaksha/Upadhyaksha by playing fraud on the

Constitution, issuance of writ of quo warranto against

such persons is not barred by Article 243ZG of the

Constitution of India. Writ petition is maintainable. 71 42. As regards the applicability of doctrine of exclusion

of creamy layer to the political representation, it was

argued by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

appellant, that the issue is covered by K. Krishna

Murthy , supra, we are of the considered opinion that the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of K. Krishna Murthy supra has left the final verdict on this issue to the

appropriate Court, where the notification or State

legislature is challenged, merely dictum pronounced by

the Hon'ble Apex Court would not render the notification

dated 13.1.1995, particularly, note appended thereto,

invalid, unless final verdict is pronounced by an

appropriate court in this regard. The appellant cannot act

as a Judge to interpret the notification or cannot act

contrary to the terms of the notification. The false

statement made by the appellant that she is not an

income tax assessee in order to qualify herself for the post

or office of the Adhyaksha of Zilla Panchayath, Balllari

would be nothing but a fraud played on the Constitution. 72 There is no doubt that the fraud vitiates all proceedings.

Fraud unravels everything. Any fraudulent act committed

cannot be cured subsequently challenging the notification

on the plea of doctrine of exclusion of any creamy layer to

the political representation, the false certificate obtained

which is nullity in the eye of law cannot be revived. It is

nullity from its inception. 43. As regards maintainability of the writ petition for

non-joinder of necessary parties particularly, the Regional

Commissioner, Kalaburagi not being made as party, it is

necessary to observe that the Regional Commissioner,

Kalaburagi was a Returning Officer, who conducted the

election, subsequent to declaration of result by the

Regional Commissioner, he ceases to be a Returning

Officer and becomes functus officio, as such the writ

petition cannot be held to be not maintainable for non-

joinder of the Regional Commissioner of Kalaburagi. the

respondent No.1 is the State of Karnataka, Department of 73 Rural and Panchayath Raj. The Regional Commissioner

comes within the ambit of this department. Similarly, it

was also argued that the jurisdictional Tahasildar ought to

have been made party by person, the same do not appeal

to us since jurisdictional Tahsildar is arrayed as a party to

the proceedings. Moreover, these are only technical

grounds. 44. The issue relating to the caste, whether the

appellant belongs to Kapu caste or not is a disputed

question of fact. It is true that there is no absolute bar

under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India to

consider annulment of caste certificate de hors alternative

statutory remedy available provided the disputed question

of facts are not involved and the circumstances warrant

invoking of the extraordinary writ jurisdiction. The

judgments relied upon by the respondents on this point do

not assist the respondents since the matter is already

pending before the Caste Verification Committee, 74 considering this prayer at this stage would be,

entertaining the parallel proceedings which is not tenable.

The determination of caste requires a full-fledged enquiry,

as such the learned single judge directing the caste

verification committee, to proceed with the matter cannot

be found fault with. Confirming the order of the learned

single Judge, we direct the Caste Verification Committee

to proceed with the matter in accordance with law without

being influenced by any of the observations made above.

All rights and contentions of the parties are left open.

Caste Verification Committee shall decide the matter in an

expedite manner. In the result, both the appeals stand dismissed. (Sd/-)
 JUDGE

 (Sd/-)
 JUDGE

hnm/JTR/JM