1. The instant appeal preferred under Section 21(4) of the

 National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 is directed against the order

 dated 19.05.2022 passed by the learned A.J.C.-XVI-cum-Special 2 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 Judge, NIA Ranchi, in Misc. Cr. Application No. 566 of 2022 (Special

(NIA) Case No.02 of 2018) corresponding to R.C.

No.02/2018/NIA/DLI dated 19.01.2018, arising out of Bero P.S.

Case No.67 of 2016 registered for the offence under Sections 212 , 213 , 414 / 34 of the I.P.C., Section 17(ii) of the Criminal Law

(Amendment) Act, 1908 and Sections 13 , 17 & 40 of the Unlawful

Activities (Prevention) Act, whereby and whereunder, the prayer for

regular bail of the appellant has been rejected.

PROSECUTION CASE & FACTS 2. The brief facts of the prosecution case leading to this Criminal

Appeal is that on 10.11.2016, on receiving secret information, the

informant namely Mr. Bindeshwari Das, Officer In-charge of Bero

P.S. registered an information received regarding the associates of

Supremo of PLFI depositing ill-gotten money of crime proceed

realized as extortion of levy at SBI, Bero, Ranchi. After having

informed his superior authorities and having received their directives,

he proceeded for its verification along with other police officials and

reserve guards. 3. At about 03.15 PM, he reached along with his team at SBI,

Bero, Ranchi, and after surrounding the same waited in ambush. In

the meantime, after having seen the police party, 3-4 persons making

hue and cry attempted to flee away with bag having articles carrying

in their hand, and one of the persons was apprehended from campus

of the Bank and three persons were apprehended while boarding

Safari Vehicle No. JH01Y 2898. On asking, the persons 3 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 apprehended disclosed their name as Binod Kumar, Chandra

Shekhar Kumar, Nand Kishore Mahto and Mohan Kumar. 4. The Informant conducted search of these persons in presence

of independent witnesses and alleged levy/extorted amount of Rs.

25,38,000/- was recovered. The accused persons were unable to

show any document and one of the co-accused confessed before the

Informant that the PLFI Supremo Dinesh Gope had instructed him on

mobile phone after the Central Government Policy of demonetization

to deposit the amount. It was further confessed by a co-accused that

levied, extorted money was given by PLFI extremist organization for

getting it converted white money by depositing in the name of the

said petrol pump. Accordingly, all the said articles were seized in

presence of independent witnesses and seizure list was prepared. 5. It is alleged that these accused persons were involved in the

extortion of levied amount and such ill-gotten money was being

converted by hardcore outlawed PLFI extremist people which is

dangerous to the national interest and helpful for the extremist

organization. 6. Accordingly, a case was registered on the basis of written

report made by Sub-Inspector of Bero P.S Mr. Bindeshwari Das, as

Bero P.S. Case No.67 of 2016 under Sections 212 , 213 , 414 / 34 of

the I.P.C., Section 17(ii) of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1908

and Sections 13 , 17 & 40 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act

against accused persons namely Binod Kumar, Chandra Shekhar

Kumar, Nand Kishore Mahto, Mohan Kumar and also against 4 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 accused Yamuna Prasad and Dinesh Gope. 7. After investigation the state police filed charge-sheet in the

aforesaid case vide charge-sheet no. 01 of 2017 against the accused

persons namely Binod Kumar, Chandra Shekhar Kumar, Nand

Kishore Mahto, Mohan Kumar and further investigation continued

against accused Yamuna Prasad and Dinesh Gope. 8. Later on, considering the gravity of the offence, Ministry of

Home Affairs, Government of India vide order dated 16.01.2018

directed National Investigation Agency (NIA), to take over the

investigation of the Bero P.S. Case No.67 of 2016. 9. In compliance to the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs,

Government of India, (Order No.F.No.11011/51/2017/IS-IV dated

16.01.2018), re-registered the aforesaid case as NIA Case no. RC-

02/2018/NIA/DLI dated 19.01.2018 under Sections 212 , 213 , 414 and 34 of IPC of the Indian Penal Code ( I.P.C .), Section 17 of the C.L.A.

Act 1908 and under Sections 13 , 17 and 40 of the Unlawful Activities

(Prevention) Act 1967 (UA(P) Act 1967) against the accused

persons. 10. After obtaining the administrative approval of the competent

authority the case docket and case exhibits were transferred to the

NIA by the Investigating agency and accordingly investigation was

taken up by the NIA. 11. During the course of further investigation it surfaced that the

absconding accused Dinesh Gope (A-6), supremo of PLFI, continued

to channelize levy amount into legitimate means by 5 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 depositing/transferring into the bank accounts of his wives(A-13) and

A-14 and associates by using several Pragya Kendra operative

through various banking channels and also in the bank accounts of

Companies opened in the name of his wives(A-13), A-14, Sumant

Kumar (A-7) and the present appellant (Fuleshwar Gope) and

accordingly, he was arrested on 13.07.2020. Accordingly, on

23.7.2020, 2nd supplementary charge-sheet was submitted against

the other accused persons including the present appellant and he

was arrayed as an Accused no.17 (A-17). 12. Consequently, the above-named appellant had preferred the

regular bail application vide Misc. Cr. Application No. 566 of 2022

before the NIA Special Court, Ranchi for regular bail but the same

has been rejected vide order dated 19.05.2022, against which, the

present appeal has been filed. Submission advanced on behalf of the learned counsel for the

Appellant: 13. Learned counsel for the appellant has assailed the impugned order

on the following grounds: - Ltd. (A-20) but the said document as has been appended by way

of a supplementary affidavit cannot be said to be the cogent

evidence to implicate the appellant in the commission of crime so

as to attract the penal offence under Section 17 of the U.A.(P)

Act and other allied section under the aforesaid penal provision. (iii) In the 1st supplementary charge-sheet, the appellant was not

charge-sheeted, rather, he was made a witness but

subsequently, when the 2nd supplementary charge-sheet was

submitted on 23.07.2020, the appellant has also been arrayed as

an accused being accused no.17 on the basis of allegation that

his name has figured as the director of M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi

Infra Pvt. Ltd., in which, Dinesh Gope's first wife Smt. Hira Devi

(A-14) was also a director. But, while implicating the appellant on

the pretext of one of the Director of M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi

Infra Pvt. Ltd., no material has been collected to establish the

issue of commission of offence said to be committed under Section 17 of the U.A.(P) Act, since, even accepting the ground

of N.I.A. for implicating the appellant which is only for collecting

the levy but there is no evidence to that effect. (iv) The appellant is languishing in judicial custody since

13.07.2020 and further there is no likelihood of the trial to be

concluded in near future, therefore, as per the judgment

rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Union of 7 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 India Vrs. K.A. Najeeb, reported in [(2021) 1 SCR, the appeal of

 the appellant may be allowed. (v) The ground of parity has also been taken and it is submitted

 that the other co-accused person, namely, Jitendra Kumar and

 Jai Prakash Singh Bhuiyan has been directed to be released on

 bail by co-ordinate bench of this Court vide order dated

 08.05.2023 and 05.01.2024 passed in Cr. Appeal (DB) No.514 of

 2020 and Cr. Appeal (DB) No.14 of 2021 respectively. 14. Learned counsel for the appellant, on the aforesaid premise, has

submitted that the learned court ought to have considered that aspect of

the matter, while considering the prayer for regular bail, but having not

been considered, therefore, the impugned orders need to be interfered

with. Submission advanced on behalf of the learned counsel for

Respondent-N.I.A. 15. Per contra, Mr. Amit Kumar Das, learned counsel for the

respondent-NIA has taken the following grounds by defending the

impugned order: - 16. Mr. Das, learned counsel for the respondent-NIA based upon the

aforesaid ground has submitted that since the nature of allegation leveled

against the appellant is very grave and bail of accused persons namely

Navinbhai Jayantibhai Patel, have already been rejected in Criminal Appeal

(DB) No. 556 of 2020 respectively, therefore, the present appeal is also fit to

be dismissed. 17. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and considered the

finding recorded by learned Court in the impugned order as also the charge-

sheet. 18. This Court, before proceeding to examine as to whether the

appellant has been able to make out a prima facie case for enlarging him on

bail, deems it fit and proper to discuss some settled proposition of law and

the relevant provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (hereinafter referred to as Act, 1967). 19. The main objective of the Act 1967 is to make powers available for

dealing with activities directed against the integrity and sovereignty of India.

As per Preamble, Act 1967 has been enacted to provide for the more 10 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 effective prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals and

associations and dealing with terrorist activities and for matters connected

therewith. Therefore, the aim and object of enactment of UAPA is also to

provide for more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities. 20. To achieve the said object and purpose of effective prevention of

certain unlawful activities the Parliament in its wisdom has provided that

where an association is declared unlawful by a notification issued under Section 3 , a person, who is and continues to be a member of such

association shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may

extend to 2 years, and shall also be liable to fine. 21. Clause (m) of Section 2 of the 1967 Act defines "terrorist

organization". It is defined as an organization listed in the First Schedule.

CPI (Maoist) has been listed at Item no. 34 in the First Schedule. Chapters

III onwards of the 1967 Act incorporate various offences. Chapter IV has the

title "punishment for terrorist act". Clause (k) of Section 2 provides that

"terrorist act" has the meaning assigned to it under Section 15 and the

terrorist act includes an act which constitutes an offence within the scope of,

and as defined in any of the treaties specified in the Second Schedule. 22. Further section 10(a)(i) of Act 1967 provides that where an

association is declared unlawful by a notification issued under Section 3 which has become effective under sub-section (3) of that Section, a person,

who is continues to be a member of such association shall be punishable

with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also

be liable to fine therefore, so long as Section 10(a)(i) stands a person who is 11 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 or continues to be a member of such association shall be liable to be

punished. 23. As per mandate of section 13 of the Act 1967 who takes part in or

commits, or advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, any

unlawful activity, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which

may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. 24. At this juncture it will be purposeful to discuss the core of Section

43(d)(5) of the Act 1967 which mandates that the person shall not be

released on bail if the court is of the opinion that there are reasonable

grounds for believing that the accusations made are prima facie true apart

from the other offences the appellant is accused of committing offences

under Sections 17 , 18 and 21 of the UA(P) Act, 1967. 25. The requirement as stipulated under Section 43D(5) of the UA(P)

Act, 1967 in the matter of grant of regular bail fell for consideration before

the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of National Investigation Agency v.

Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali , [(2019) 5 SCC 1] wherein at paragraph 23 it

has been held by interpreting the expression "prima facie true" as stipulated

under Section 43D(5) of the Act, 1967 which would mean that the

materials/evidence collated by the investigation agency in reference to the

accusation against the accused concerned in the First Information Report,

must prevail until contradicted and overcome or disproved by other

evidence, and on the face of it, shows the complicity of such accused in the

commission of the stated offence. It has further been observed that it must

be good and sufficient on its face to establish a given fact or the chain of

facts constituting the stated offence, unless rebutted or contradicted. The 12 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 degree of satisfaction is lighter when the Court has to opine that the

accusation is "prima facie true", as compared to the opinion of the accused

"not guilty" of such offence as required under the other special enactments.

For ready reference, paragraph 23 of the aforesaid judgment is required to

be quoted herein which reads hereunder as :- 26. It is, thus, evident from the proposition laid down by the Hon'ble

Apex Court in the case of National Investigation Agency vs. Zahoor

Ahmad Shah Watali (Supra ) that it is the bounden duty of the Court to

apply its mind to examine the entire materials on record for the purpose of

satisfying itself, whether a prima facie case is made out against the

accused or not. 27. Further It is settled proposition of law that at the stage of granting

or non-granting of the bail, the Court is merely expected to record a 14 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 finding on the basis of broad probabilities regarding the involvement of the

accused in the commission of the stated offence or otherwise and the

elaborate examination or dissection of the evidence is not required to be

done at this stage. 28. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court by setting out propounding the law

in the same case of National Investigation Agency v. Zahoor Ahmad

Shah Watali (supra), has observed that the elaborate examination or

dissection of the evidence is not required to be done at this stage and the

Court is merely expected to record a finding on the basis of broad

probabilities regarding the involvement of the accused in the commission

of the stated offence or otherwise. For ready reference paragraph 24 and

25 of the aforesaid judgment is being quoted herein under:- 29. It is, thus, evident that the exercise to be undertaken by the court at

this stage of granting bail of giving reasons for grant or non-grant of bail that

is markedly different from discussing merits or demerits of the evidence. The

elaborate examination or dissection of the evidence is not required to be

done at this stage. Rather, the Court is merely expected to record a finding

on the basis of broad probabilities regarding the involvement of the accused

in the commission of the stated offence or otherwise. 16 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 30. Further it is the duty of the Court to record its opinion that the

accusation made against the accused concerned is prima facie true or

otherwise and such opinion must be reached by the Court not only in

reference to the accusation in the FIR but also in reference to the contents

of the case diary and including the charge-sheet (report under Section 173 CrPC) and other material gathered by the investigating agency during

investigation. Reference in this regard may be taken from the Judgment as

rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Ranjitsing

Brahmajeetsing Sharma v. State of Maharashtra , reported in (2005) 5

SCC 294. For ready reference, the following paragraph of the aforesaid

Judgment is being quoted herein under:- 31. The hon'ble Apex Court in a very recent judgment rendered in Gurwinder Singh Vs State of Punjab and Another , reported in 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 109 while taking in to consideration of the judgment as rendered

in the National Investigation Agency v. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali ( supra) and Union of India Vs. K.A. Najeeb (supra) has observed that, the

proviso to Sub-section (5) of Section 43D puts a complete embargo on the

powers of the Special Court to release an accused on bail and lays down

that if the Court, 'on perusal of the case diary or the report made under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure', is of the opinion that there

are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation, against such

person, as regards commission of offence or offences under Chapter IV

and/or Chapter VI of the UAP Act is prima facie true, such accused

person shall not be released on bail or on his own bond. 32. The Hon'ble Apex Court further observed that the conventional idea

in bail jurisprudence vis-à-vis ordinary penal offences that the discretion of

Courts must tilt in favour of the oft-quoted phrase - 'bail is the rule, jail is the

exception' - unless circumstances justify otherwise - does not find any place

while dealing with bail applications under UAP Act and the 'exercise' of the

general power to grant bail under the UAP Act is severely restrictive in

scope. 33. In the aforesaid context it has further been observed by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court that the courts are, therefore, burdened with a sensitive task

on hand and in dealing with bail applications under UAP Act , the courts are

merely examining if there is justification to reject bail and the 'justifications' 18 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 must be searched from the case diary and the final report submitted before

the Special Court. 34. In the aforesaid background the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that

the test for rejection of bail is quite plain and Bail must be rejected as a

'rule', if after hearing the public prosecutor and after perusing the final report

or Case Diary, the Court arrives at a conclusion that there are reasonable

grounds for believing that the accusations are prima facie true. It has further

been observed that it is only if the test for rejection of bail is not satisfied -

that the Courts would proceed to decide the bail application in accordance

with the 'tripod test' (flight risk, influencing witnesses, tampering with

evidence). 35. For ready reference, following paragraphs of the aforesaid

Judgment are being quoted herein under: 36. In this background, the test for rejection of bail is quite plain. Bail

must be rejected as a 'rule', if after hearing the public prosecutor and after

perusing the final report or Case Diary, the Court arrives at a conclusion that

there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations are prima

facie true. It is only if the test for rejection of bail is not satisfied that the

Courts would proceed to decide the bail application in accordance with the

'tripod test' (flight risk, influencing witnesses, tampering with

evidence). This position is made clear by Sub-section (6) of Section 43D ,

which lays down that the restrictions, on granting of bail specified in Sub-

section (5), are in addition to the restrictions under the Code of Criminal

Procedure or any other law for the time being in force on grant of bail. 37. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the aforesaid judgment after textual

reading of Section 43 D(5) UAP Act , has formulated the guideline which was

summarized in the form of a twin-prong test. For ready reference the

relevant paragraph is being quoted herein under: 1.1 Examine if, prima facie, the alleged 'accusations' make

 out an offence under Chapter IV or VI of the UAP Act

 1.2 Such examination should be limited to case diary and

 final report submitted under Section 173 CrPC; 2) Whether the accused deserves to be enlarged on bail in light

 of the general principles relating to grant of bail under Section 439 CrPC ('tripod test')?" 11 & A-12:- Initially extorted levy amount was getting converted through A-1

to A-4 and post arrest A-1 to A-5, he (A-6) assigned the same

task to another module having the same Modus-operandi, with 26 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 the association under the leadership the A-7. A-7 was holding

the post of director in M/s Bhavya Engicon Pvt. Ltd (A-18) and

M/s Shiv Aadi Shakti Minerals Ltd (A-19), with the purpose to

disguise the actual intention with the partnership of Shakuntala

kumari (A-13), alleged second wife of Dinesh Gope(A-6). A-13

also has been Sole Proprietor of a dubious un-registered

Company named Palak Enterprises. Hira Devi (A-14), first wife

of A-6 was joint director (another director is Fuleshwar Gope (A- 17) of a Company namely, M/S Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt.

Ltd (A-20). The companies, mentioned above, have been used

for channelizing the funds (levy & extortion) of absconding

accused A-6. After getting funds directly from Dinesh Gope (A- 6), Sumant Kumar (A-7) either himself or with active association

of Arun Gope (A-10), other associates of PLFI, and others,

deposited extorted money in the accounts of the above dubious

companies and approximately amount to the tune of approx. Ra

2,68,00,000/-(Rupees Two Crores Sixty Eight Lakhs only) were

channelized into legitimate means. 17.6.2: Sumant Kumar (A-7) in close association of Jitender

Kumar (A-11) hatched the criminal conspiracy in the name of

alleged surrender of A-6, self- styled supremo of PLFI with the

association of A-8, A-9 & A-12 and arranged/held meeting with

the political leaders. As per the plan of A-6, A-7 along with his

associates, were directly, deeply, discreetly involved in the

larger conspiracy and in the commission of the instant crime 27 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 and channelized the extorted amount into alleged legitimate

means by depositing the same in the bank accounts of family

members/close associates as well as companies owned by A-7,

A-13, A-14, A-17 or having partnership with them.

17.7.12: During scrutiny of the Axis Bank, Ashok Nagar, Ranchi

account number 916020046701699 in the name of M/S Shiv

Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. (A-20). It is found that Rs.

23,50,000/- had been deposited/transferred from date of

account opening Le. August 2016 to April 2018. Out of the said

amount, Rs. 11,50,000/- were deposited in cash, Rs.

10,00,000/- were transferred from M/s Calvin Planners and

Investors Pvt. Ltd. (they took cash and transferred the money

through cheque) & Rs. 2,00,000/- from A-18. From the said

account, Rs. 12,60,000/- was paid to Birendra Kumar Dubey for

purchasing flat in Kolkata (in name of A-14). 17.12.12: Investigation has established that A-17 has conspired

with A-6, A-7, A-14 to form a company, A-20 along with A-14, to

form a dubious company A-20, to channelize the levy/extorted

funds into legitimate means by raising/depositing funds in the

bank account of A-20. 17.17: Offences established against accused Hira Devi @

Anita Devi (A-14): 17 and other associates of A-6, knowing fully well that such

funds are likely to be used by PLFI, a terrorist gang, for their

nefarious/terrorist activities. A-14 is deeply involved in the larger

conspiracy and the commission of instant crime and was

channelizing the extorted amount into legitimate means by

depositing the same in her individual bank accounts and A-20. It

has been proved that A- 14 had knowingly held the huge

amount of levy, collected through extortion by PLFI, and the

said levy amount were used for purchasing flat and her

personal use. A-14 has also knowingly hidden her identity for

the purpose of fraud and impersonation and opened a bank

account in Central Bank of India with a forged Aadhaar Card in

the name of Anita Devi for raising/collecting levy amount and

channelizing the extorted money. A-14, on the direction of A-6

and with association of A-1, A-7, A-10, A-15 & A- 16, was deeply

involved in the larger conspiracy and in the commission of the

instant crime by channelizing the extorted amount as per the 29 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 plan of PLFI. She knowingly held the amount derived/collected

through extortion/levy by PLFI operatives from commission of

any terrorist act (levy, extortion) or acquired through the terrorist

fund, and invested it into A-20 and her individual bank accounts,

for purchasing Flat and personal use. A-14, on the directions of

A-6 and with the association of A-1, A-7, A- 10, A-13, A-15, A-16

and A-17, was deeply involved in the larger conspiracy and in

the commission of the instant crime and was channelizing the

extorted amount as per the plan of PLFI.----- 17.20: Offences established against Fuleshwar Gope, the

present appellant (A-17): 20). 49. Thus, prima-facie it appears that the present appellant on the

directions of Dinesh Gope (A 6) and with the association of Sumant

Kumar (A-7) and Hira Devi (A-14), was deeply involved in the larger

conspiracy and was channelizing the extorted amount as per the plan

of PLFI a proscribed terrorist organization. 50. The learned counsel for the appellant by referring to the

certificate issued by the Registrar of Company wherein Appellant is

shown as the Director of M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. (A- 20) has contended that the said document as has been appended by

way of a supplementary affidavit by the respondent NIA, cannot be

said to be the cogent evidence to implicate the appellant in the

commission of crime. 51. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent NIA has

submitted that that the said document which has been appended in

the supplementary affidavit is genuine and reliable as such the

contention regarding the genuineness of the document is totally

misplaced. 52. This Court, after appreciating the aforesaid argument, is

of the view that since this Court is to make out a prima-facie view

based upon the principle as provided under Section 43D(5) of the

U.A.(P) Act, therefore, is of the view that the genuineness of the 34 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 document is not looked into at this stage, rather, for the purpose

of making a prima-facie view, the document pertaining to creation

of the said company, prima-facie is available against the

appellant. 53. Further, The learned counsel for the appellant has taken

the ground of parity and submits that the other co-accused person,

namely, Jitendra Kumar and Jai Prakash Singh Bhuiyan has been

directed to be released on bail by co-ordinate bench of this Court

vide order dated 08.05.2023 and 05.01.2024 passed in Cr. Appeal

(DB) No.514 of 2020 and Cr. Appeal (DB) No.14 of 2021

respectively. 54. The learned counsel for the appellant has further taken

the reference of the order dated 03.10.2023 passed in Cr. Appeal

(DB) No. 201 of 2020 by which accused persons namely Binod

Kumar, Chandra Shekhar Kumar, Nand Kishore Mahto, Mohan

Kumar has been granted bail. 55. In the backdrop of aforesaid contention, the learned

counsel for the appellant has submitted that since the other co-

accused persons have already been granted bail, therefore the

present appellant may be enlarged on bail. 56. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent NIA

has submitted that the case of the instant appellant is on different

footing in comparison to the other accused persons who have

already been granted bail. It is further submitted that co-ordinate

Bench of this Court had denied the privilege of bail to another-co- 35 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 accused namely Navinbhai Jayantibhai Patel in Cr. Appeal (DB)

 No. 556 of 2020 and the case of the present appellant is nearer to

 the Navinbhai Jayantibhai Patel, as such the present appellant is

 not entitled for the bail on the instance of parity.

Issue of Parity 57. In the backdrop of the aforesaid contention, this Court

 is now proceeding to examine the issue of parity. The law is well

 settled that the principle of parity is to be applied if the case of

 the fact is exactly to be similar then only the principle of parity in

 the matter of passing order but if there is difference in between

 the facts, then the principle of parity is not to be applied. 58. It is further settled connotation of law that Court cannot

 exercise its powers in a capricious manner and has to consider

 the totality of circumstances before granting bail and by only

 simple saying that another accused has been granted bail is not

 sufficient to determine whether a case for the grant of bail on the

 basis of parity has been established. Reference in this regard

 may be taken from the judgment as rendered by the Hon'ble

 Apex Court in Ramesh Bhavan Rathod v. Vishanbhai Hirabhai

 Makwana , (2021) 6 SCC 230, wherein, it has been held as

 under: The High Court has evidently misunderstood the central
 aspect of what is meant by parity. Parity while granting
 bail must focus upon the role of the accused. Merely
 observing that another accused who was granted bail
 was armed with a similar weapon is not sufficient to
 determine whether a case for the grant of bail on the
 basis of parity has been established. In deciding the
 aspect of parity, the role attached to the accused, their
 position in relation to the incident and to the victims is of
 utmost importance. The High Court has proceeded on
 the basis of parity on a simplistic assessment as noted
 above, which again cannot pass muster under the law." 59. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Tarun Kumar

Versus Assistant Director Directorate of Enforcement,

reported in (2023) SCC OnLine SC 1486 has observed that

parity is not the law and while applying the principle of parity, the

Court is required to focus upon the role attached to the accused

whose application is under consideration. 60. It has further been held in the said judgment that the

principle of parity is to be applied in the matter of bail but equally

it has been laid down therein that there cannot be any negative

equality, meaning thereby, that if a co-accused person has been

granted bail without consideration of the factual aspect or on the

ground said to be not proper, then, merely because the co-

accused person has been directed to be released on bail, the

same will not attract the principle of parity on the principle that Article 14 envisages positive equality and not negative equality.

For ready reference, relevant paragraph, i.e., paragraph-18 and

19, of the aforesaid judgment reads as under: day operations of the company. It was also observed that the
 appellant's role was made out from the financials, where
 direct loan funds have been siphoned off to the sister
 concerns of SBFL, where the appellant was either a
 shareholder or director. In any case, the order granting bail to
 Raman Bhuraria being under consideration before the
 coordinate bench of this Court, it would not be appropriate for
 us to make any observation with regard to the said order
 passed by the High Court. 61. In the light of aforesaid settled position of law this Court

has examined the allegations, as have been alleged against

aforesaid accused persons. 62. The role of the Jai Prakash Singh Bhuiyan has been

depicted in para 17.18 of the second supplementary chargesheet,

which reads as follows:- 63. It is evident from aforesaid paragraph that the major charge,

which has been levelled against the Jai Prakash Singh Bhuiya, is that

of being involved in a larger conspiracy along with several other co-

accused persons in channelizing the extorted money of Dinesh Gope

(A-6) into the account of Hira Devi @ Anita Devi (A-14) and other

persons. 64. Further so far, the other co-accused namely Jitendra Kumar is

concern the major charge, which has been levelled against him, is

that of being involved in a larger conspiracy along with several other

co-accused persons in channelizing the extorted money of Dinesh

Gope (A-6) into the account of Hira Devi @ Anita Devi (A-14) and

other persons. 65. Further, the allegation against the other accused persons

namely Binod Kumar(A-1), Chandra Shekhar Kumar, Nand Kishore

Mahto Rajesh Kumar @ Mohan Kumar that they are of being

involved in criminal conspiracy with the other accused persons more

particularly PLFI supremo - Dinesh Gope into channelizing the

extorted money into legitimate means. What would further be

apparent is that the appellants were acting as conduits in

channelizing such ill-gotten money. 66. This Court has already referred hereinabove the allegation against

the present appellant that he is one of the Director of the Company in the 42 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 name and style of M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. and prima

facie allegation against present appellant is like that he, by making

criminal conspiracy invested extortion money collected by PLFI cadre on

the direction of the PLFI supremo namely Dinesh Gope (A-6) with the

help of Shakuntala Kumari (A-13) , Hira Devi @ Anita Devi (A 14), Sumant

Kumar @ Pawan Kumar (A 7) , Chandra Shekhar Singh (A 9), which was

used by the PLFI supremo for anti-National activities challenging the

sovereignty and integrity as well as national interest of Government of

India. 67. The document has also been appended with the

supplementary affidavit, issued by the Registrar of Company from

whose Office the said Company has been registered. However, the

genuineness of the said document has been questioned but since

this Court is to make out a prima-facie view based upon the principle

as provided under Section 43D(5) of the U.A.(P) Act, therefore, is of

the view that the genuineness is not looked into at this stage, rather,

for the purpose of making a prima-facie view, the document

pertaining to creation of the said company by the Office, prima-facie

is available against the appellant. 68. This Court, after taking into consideration the fact that this

appellant was an active member of the Company in the capacity of

one of the Director of the Company, i.e., M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi

Infra Pvt. Ltd., while, on the other hand, the allegation against the co-

accused persons, is on different footing hence, is of the view that the

principle of parity will not be applicable. 69. So far as the argument regarding reliance having been

placed upon the judgment of Union of India vs. K.A. Najeeb (Supra )

is concerned, this Court is of the view that in the facts and

circumstances the aforesaid judgment will not be applicable herein

since in the said case altogether 276 charge-sheeted witnesses were

to be examined and on the pin-pointed question by the Hon'ble Apex

Court, the investigating agency has submitted that there is no

question of reducing the number of charge-sheeted witnesses and in

view thereof and considering the period of custody, i.e., more than 5

and half years and also taking into consideration the spirit of Article

21 of the Constitution of India the Hon'ble Apex Court has not

interfered in the order by which the bail was granted to respondent-

accused. 70. While, the fact of the instant case is that there is very grave

nature of allegation against the present appellant and further, in the

instant case, it has been submitted by the learned counsel appearing

for the N.I.A., on instruction that in course of trial, the number of

charge-sheeted witnesses may also be reduced depending upon the

situation and trial may be concluded in shortest time period. 71. This Court, merely on the basis of the custody by taking the

ground of violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the same

since has already been dealt with by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

case of Gurwinder Singh (Supra) even after taking into

consideration the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

the case of K.A. Najeeb (Supra), therefore, is of the view that the 44 Cr. Appeal(DB) No.767/2022 parameter which statutorily has been provided under Section 43D(5) is to be taken into consideration for the purpose of consideration of

 bail, if the allegation as per the material collected in course of

 investigation is found to be prima-facie untrue then only prayer for

 bail, can be considered. While, if the allegation has been found to be

 prima-facie true, the privilege of bail cannot be granted. 72. This Court, based upon the aforesaid reason, is of the view

 that the order passed by the learned court while rejecting the prayer

 for bail, suffers from no infirmity. 73. Accordingly, the instant appeal fails and is dismissed. 74. Pending Interlocutory Application(s), if any, also stands

 dismissed. 75. It is made clear that any observation made herein will not

 prejudice the case of the appellant in course of trial and view as

 expressed by this Court is only limited to the instant appeal. (Sujit Narayan Prasad, J.)

 I Agree

 (Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

(Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

 Rohit/-A.F.R.