This is a revision petition filed under Section 397 Cr.PC 
against the order dated 03.10.2016 passed by Ld. MM, while refusing 
to   take   cognizance   against   the   respondent   and   also   dismissing   the Criminal Revision No. 03/2016 Page 1 of 9 Gurpal Kaur vs. State & Anr. Order dt. 20.02.2017

protest petition filed by the revisionist/ complainant. In   brief,   the   complaint   was   given   by   the   revisionist/ 
complainant to the SHO, PS R. K. Puram, with a request to register a 
case under Section 66A of The Information Technology Act. During investigation, the alleged mail was found to be sent 
by the accused from IP address of her mother. However, closure report 
was   filed   stating   that Section   66A of   IT   Act   has   been   declared 
unconstitutional by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. A protest petition was also filed against the cancellation 
report,   but   Ld.   MM   after   hearing   the   arguments   found   satisfied 
himself   that   there   was   no   material,   which   could   suggest   that 
revisionist/   complainant   was   defamed   by   the   e­mail   sent   by   the 
accused, so the closure report was accepted. The   impugned   order   has   been   challenged   by   the 
revisionist/ complainant on various ground which are as under : I have heard the Ld. Counsel for revisionist/ complainant, 
Ld. Asst. Public Prosecutor Sh. Anil Kumar and Ld. Counsel on behalf 
of the respondent/ accused. According to the closure report, during the investigation, it 
has been brought on record that the contents of the said alleged e­
mail which was sent by the accused to the Principal of Delhi Public 
School,   R.   K.   Puram,   New   Delhi,   wherein   certain   allegations   were 
made   against   the   revisionist/   complainant,   are   according   to   the 
internal enquiry of the school, were found false and fabricated. It has 
also come in the investigation that the said e­mail was sent by the Criminal Revision No. 03/2016 Page 5 of 9 Gurpal Kaur vs. State & Anr. Order dt. 20.02.2017

accused through the IP address of her mother. Ld.   Counsel   for   the   revisionist/   complainant   has 
contended that assuming that Section 66A IT Act, 2000 is not made 
out, even then other Sections such as Section 66(C) and 66(D) of IT 
Act, 2000, seems to be attracted and closure report could not be filed 
nor the same could be accepted by the Ld. MM. It has also contended 
that besides these Sections, offences u/Ss 464 and 469 IPC also seems 
to   be   committed,   in   which   cognizance   could   have   been   taken.   Ld. 
Asst. Public Prosecutor, Sh. Anil Kumar has supported the arguments 
of the revisionist/ complainant. In   support   of   his   contentions,   Ld.   Counsel   for   the 
revisionist/ complainant has relied upon 1953 Cri. L.J. 979 (Nagpur) 
titled   as   Krishnarao   Raojirao   and   others   v.   The   State,   Madhya  
Pradesh and Criminal Appeal No. 1054 of 1943, titled as Emperor  
v. Abdul Hamid . According   to   the   said   alleged   e­mail,   the   accused   made 
false   allegations  against the present revisionist/ complainant to the 
extent that the revisionist/ complainant is conducting tuition classes Criminal Revision No. 03/2016 Page 6 of 9 Gurpal Kaur vs. State & Anr. Order dt. 20.02.2017

for   Class   XI   hostellers   after   school   hours   where   she   had   discussed 
most of the questions that were tested in the half yearly exam for class 
XI accountancy. She is charging Rs.500/­ per student per hour and 
having 8­10 student. While teaching these students she is leaking out 
most of the questions being tested in the exam. This   e­mail   was   referred   to   Mrs.   S.   Mehta,   however, 
enquiry report was given by Sh. Shyam Sunder, HOD, Accountancy, 
DPS,   R.   K.   Puram,   New   Delhi,   according   to   which   the   anonymous 
letter was false and baseless. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for R­2 has contended that 
it   is   not   found   prima   facie   that   the   accused   had   used   the   said   IP 
address   as   alleged   and   the   CFSL   report   was   not   filed   with   the 
cancellation report. It is further contended on behalf of the accused 
that the contention of the revisionist/ complainant that she has been 
over­looked   in   promotion   is   false   and   she   has   not   suffered   any 
defamation as alleged. After   considering   the   arguments   of   Ld.   Counsel   for 
revisionist/ complainant, Ld. Asst. Public Prosecutor for the State and Criminal Revision No. 03/2016 Page 7 of 9 Gurpal Kaur vs. State & Anr. Order dt. 20.02.2017

Ld. Counsel for R­2, I found the arguments addressed on the part of 
revisionist/   complainant   are   forceful.   The   charge­sheet   filed   was 
incomplete and was without any CFSL report. If Section 66A of IT Act 
was not made as the same has been declared unconstitutional, then it 
was to be seen by the Investigating Officer as to whether any other 
offences were made out or not and there is no finding on this aspect. 
Ld. Trial Court has over­looked this fact. The closure report was filed 
only   for   offence   under Section   66A I.   T.   Act   and   the   same   was 
accepted as it is. Whereas, the Ld. Trial Court was required to see and 
consider   whether   other   offences   except Section   66A IT   Act   were 
attracted or not, but no such findings have ben given on this aspect, 
therefore, impugned order dated 03.10.2016 is not sustainable in the 
eyes of law, hence, the same is set aside. Ld. Trial court is directed to 
consider the submissions of revisionist/ complainant as argued before 
this court and to give findings as to whether any other offences seem 
to   be   committed   or   not.   Accordingly,   the   revision   petition   stands 
allowed and disposed of. Revisionist is directed to appear before the Ld. MM on 
21.02.2017 at 02:00 p.m. Criminal Revision No. 03/2016 Page 8 of 9 Gurpal Kaur vs. State & Anr. Order dt. 20.02.2017

 Trial Court Record be sent back with the copy of this order.
 Revision file be consigned to Record Room. Announced in the open
court on 20.02.2017
 (Virender Kumar Goyal)
 Additional Sessions Judge
 cum Special Judge­03, (PC Act )
 (CBI), Patiala House Courts
 New Delhi Criminal Revision No. 03/2016 Page 9 of 9