PER: RATHOD KAMLESH JAYANTBHAI, A.M.

 This appeal is filed by assessee and is arising out of the

 order of the National Faceless Appeal Centre, Delhi dated

 30/06/2022 [here in after (NFAC/ld. CIT(A)] for assessment year

 2014-15 which in turn arise from the order of the Income Tax

 Officer, Ward-5(3), Jaipur dated 06.12.2016 passed under section

 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 [ here in after referred as Act ]. Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur 2. The assessee has marched this appeal on following grounds

of appeal; 3. The fact as culled out from the records is that the assessee

is a Hindu Undivided Family and has filed its return of income on

02.06.2014 declaring total income of Rs.3,92,520/- in that status. The case was selected for Complete scrutiny though CASS. Accordingly, notice u/s. 143(2) of the Act was issued from time to

time. The assessee derives interest income from bank as well as

from the parties to whom loan has been given. During the year

assessee has shown long term capital gain of Rs.1,35,90,569/- on

sale of shares of Cressanda Solutions Limited (Smart Champ IT &

Infra Ltd. used interchangeably herein after as this company

merged into Cressanda Solutions Limited) which was claimed

exempt u/s 10(38) . The ld. AO observed that Investigation Wing of

Kolkata have informed that it has carried out search on many entry 3 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur operators. The investigation of the Kolkata wing finally identified 84

of such penny stock companies out of which Cressanda Solutions

Ltd. was found to be one. The scrip of Smart Champs IT & Infra

Ltd. was surveyed u/s 133A of the Act and in the sworn

depositions by Chairman, Managing Directors & other Directors

they have confirmed on oath that they have provided and

accommodated bogus long term capital gains. Accordingly, a show

cause letter dt. 09.11.21016 (reproduced at pages 4-5 of the

assessment order) was issued to the assessee to justify the LTCG

claimed as exempt u/s 10(38) as the offline purchase of share

were made by the assessee from this company. In response to

same assessee filed his reply on 21.11.2016 which is reproduced

at Page 5 of the assessment order in which it was stated that

Smart Champs IT & Infra Ltd. was amalgamated into Cressanda

Solutions Ltd. and in scheme of amalgamation assessee got

30000 shares in exchange of 30000 shares of new company. The

AO, however, at Para 4.1 observed that as per the communication

received from DDIT(Inv. ), Kolkata dt. 28.03.2016, assessee has

not availed the opportunity to cross examine Sanjay Vohra and

Narendra Bilasia, Directors of Anand Rathi Share & Stock Broker

Ltd./ SMC Global Securities Ltd. Further assessee purchased the 4 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur shares physically on 19.11.20211 but evidence of payment is not

filed. The shares were dematerialized just 2 to 2 ½ months prior to

the date of sale. Thereafter by making various observations made

in Para 7 about the general modus operandi, the AO made specific

comments at Para 7.1 as to how the transaction of sale of share of

Cressanda Solutions Ltd. is not genuine and thus treated the sale

proceeds of shares for an amount Rs.1,39,78,925/- as unexplained

income of the assessee u/s 68 of IT Act, 1961 and made addition

for the same. He further observed that the assessee has paid

commission @ 6% of sale value of shares amounting to

Rs.8,38,735/- and accordingly made addition of the same by

treating such amount as unexplained expenditure u/s 69C of the

Act. 4. Aggrieved from the above order of the ld. AO assessee has

preferred an appeal before the ld. CIT(A). The ld. CIT(A) has

dismissed the appeal of the assessee and relevant findings of the

ld. CIT(A) is recorded at para 5 to 8 which is reiterated here in

below :- "5. The appellant has contended that the AO has erred in adding Rs
 1,39,78,925/- under section 68 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 in-spite of
 providing all the documents and information relating to the transaction.
 The AO noted that the assessee has purchased 30,000 shares of M/s
 Smart Champs IT & Infra Ltd on 19 11-2011 physically through Hem 5 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur

Securities Ltd which has been sold in FY 2013-14 for a consideration of
Rs 1,39,78,925/- thereby showing LTCG of Rs 1,35,90,569/
Apparently, the increase in share price was not as per any commercial
principles and market factors. The AO has elaborated following modus
operandi which is unravelled by a countrywide investigation by the
Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata
2.1 The Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata carried out a country-wide
investigation to unearth the organized racket of generating bogus
entries of Long Term Capital Gains (LTCG) which is exempt from tax.
The modus operandi adopted by the operators was to make the
beneficiary buy some shares of a pre-determined Penny stock
company controlled by them. These shares are transferred to the
beneficiary at a very nominal price mostly off-line through preferential
allotment or off line sale to save STT The beneficiary (an Individual)
holds the share for one year, the statutory period after which LTCG is
exempt under section 10(38) of the Income tax Act, 1961. In the
meantime the operators rig the price of the stock and gradually rise its
price many times, often 500 to 1000 times. This is done through low
volume transaction indulged in by the dummies of the operator at a pre-
determined price. When the price reaches the desire level the
beneficiary who bought the shares at a minimal price, is made to see it
to a dummy paper company of the operator. For this, unaccounted
cash is provided by the beneficiary which is routed through a few layers
of paper companies by the operator and finally is parked with the
dummy paper company that will buy the shares. 2.2 Further, it may be mentioned here that the price of the shares of
the penny stock companies are rigged and are raised through circular
trading. This is managed by the "operator" of the scrip. An "Operator" is
a person who is managing the overall affairs of the scheme and he is
the one who contacts the entities who wish to take entry of bogus
LTCG/STCL in their books and arranges the same through the scrips of
penny stock companies. The Operator manages many paper/bogus
companies and used them to do circular transactions to rig the price of
the shares. The shares of these penny stock companies, although
listed on exchange, are always closely handle and are controlled by the
promoter of the Penny Stock Company and the Operator who is
arranging for the bogus LTCG/Loss. This is due to the fact that the
general public is not interest in these shares as these companies have
no credentials and this helps the operator to keep a control on the price
movement of the shares. 2.3 If the beneficiary say, 'B' bought 10.000 shares 'P@Rs. 1/- per
share sold it @Rs. 1000/-per share, he would make on paper capital
gain of Rs.49,90,000/- In his bank account there would be a cheque
deposit of Rs. 50,00,000/- paid by the paper company that buys the
share. The receipt is prima facie exempt from tax under section 10(38) of the Income tax Act, 1961. The Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata
investigated transactions in 84 such penny stock shares quoted on
BSE and examined on oath a large number of brokers, directors of 6 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur companies that finally purchase the shares, the promoters of Penny
stock companies, the entry operator who managed the dummy
companies involved in price rigging. The money trail of the transactions
was also examined and, in a large number of transactions trail right
from cash deposit account to the beneficiaries account was unearthed.
As a result of investigation individuals who have taken such entry of
bogus LTCG amounting to several crores have been identified. The
result of the investigation in brief is as under The balance cases are still being investigated by SEBI. iii) The TOP 2 groups under each investigation directorate of the
country were

confronted in course of further investigation. Almost all of them barring
a few have accepted having taken the entries for a commission. A sum
of crores have been voluntarily surrendered by such assessees. iv) In Kolkata, where this investigation was stated some of the
beneficiaries who had taken entries of nearly Rs. 40 crores have
voluntarily surrendered it for taxation without any further enquiry. v) Several assessees have filed revised retum since the enquiry and
have taken back their cliam of exemption. 5.1 The modus describedabove for availing accommodation entries to
show exempted LTCG for converting unaccounted money to white
money is very apparent. The AO has also mentioned that following the investigation by the IT
department and also on basis of inputs from its own surveillance, the
SEBI has taken appropriate actions in the cases of suspect scrips. The
scrip CRESSANDA in which the assessee traded has also been put
under surveillance measure 6. The appellant has made detailed submission in support of his
grounds of appeal which have been considered. As regards the issue
of treating the proceeds of share transaction of Rs 1,35,90,569/- u/s 68
of the Act., the appellant has contended that the learned AO erred in
making the additions under sec. 68 and in treating share money
received by the Appellant as unexplained income of the Appellant. The
AO has held that the company has used colourable devise of share
sales money to convert black money to white money through entry
operator by trading in the shares of M/s Smart Champs IT & Infra. Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur

During survey u/s 133A carried out in M/s Smart Champs IT & Infra Ltd,
the Chairman and MD and other Directors have confirmed in their
sworn statements that they have provided bogus LTCG which is
nothing but accommodation entries only. The AO has also mentioned
(para 4.1) that the assessee has not availed the opportunity to cross
examine Shri Sanjay Vora and Shri Narendra Belasia, Directors of
Anand Rathi Share and Stock Brokers Ltd/ SMC Global Securities Ltd
through whom the assessee has sold his shares. 6.1 The arguments of the appellant are also not sustainable for the
reason that it has been judicially held that if the appellant fails to offer
an explanation of the source of particular receipt/credit appearing in the
books/account or if the explanation given by the assessee is found to
be not satisfactory by the A.O and if during the enquiry. he is satisfied
that the entries are not genuine, then he has every right to add the said
sum represented by such credit entry as income of the assessee.
Therefore, prima facie onus is always on the assessee to prove the
genuineness of such credit appearing in its books. In land mark cases
like Kale Khan Mohammad Hanif v CIT [1963] 50 ITR 1 (SC), Roshan
Di Hatti v CIT [1977] 107 ITR 938 (SC) it has been held that the law is
well settled that the onus of proving the source of a sum of money
found to have been received by an assessee, is on him. Where the
nature and source thereof cannot be explained satisfactorily, it is open
to the Assessing Officer to hold that it is the income of the appellant
and no further burden is on the AO to show that the income is from any
particular source. Recently, the Hon'ble SC in a similar case involving
bogus share capital has held in the case of NAR Iron and Steel P. Ltd
[2019] 103 taxmann.com 48 (SC) that merely because assessee
company had filed all primary evidence, it could not be said that onus
on assessee to establish credit worthiness of investor companies stood
discharged. The Hon'ble Apex Court observed on the issue of bogus
share capital as under: This would be particularly so in the case of private placement of
shares, where a higher onus is required to be placed on the Assessee
since the information is within the personal knowledge of the Assessee.
The Assessee is under a legal obligation to prove the receipt of share
capital/premium to the satisfaction of the AO, failure of which, would
justify addition of the said amount to the income of the Assessee. 15. On the facts of the present case, clearly the Assessee Company -
Respondent failed to discharge the onus required under Section 68 of
the Act, the Assessing Officer was justified in adding back the amounts
to the Assessee's income. 16. The Appeal filed by the Appellant Revenue is allowed. In the
aforesaid facts and circumstances, and the law laid down above, the
judgment of the High Court, the ITAT, and the CIT are hereby set-
aside. The Order passed by the AO is restored. 6.2 Dealing a similar Penny Stock case where LTCG was shown by
the assessee, the ITAT Nagpur in the case of Shri Sanjay Bimalchand
Jain I.T.A. No. 61/Nag/2013 vide order dated 18-07-2016 has held as
under: The above decision of the ITAT has been confirmed by the Honorable
Bombay High Court vide order dated 10-04-2017. Reliance is also
placed in the following decisions: In the case of Shamim Imtiaz Hingora, the ITAT, Pune has held that
though the AO did not find any mistake in the documentation furnished
by the assessee, there is need for finding of fact on (i) the nature of the
shares transaction, (II) make believe nature of paper work (iii)
camouflage the bogus nature and (iv) the relevance of human
probabilities etc....... ........... There is no doubt that the capital gain was manipulated and bogus
transaction was done only to claim exemption u/s 10(38) . Once the
entire transaction is viewed from the perspective of human
probabilities, it definitely fails on all counts. The same ITAT dealing with
the issue of penny stock in the case of Rajkumar B. Agarwal has
observed that mere furnishing of contract notes etc does not inspire
any confidence in the light of facts. Test of human probability should be
applied and apparent should be ignored to unearth the harsh reality.
The ITAT cited the land mark decisions of Hon'ble SC in the case of
Sumati Dayal 214 ITR 801 and Durga Prasad More 82 ITR 540 to
arrive at the above conclusion. Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur 6.4 The Hon'ble ITAT, Bangalore in the case of Smt. M.K. Rajeshwari
 [2018] 99 taxmann.com 339 (Bangalore Trib) has held that where
 assessee claimed exemption under section 10(38) in respect of capital
 gain arising from sale of shares, in view of fact that financial worth of
 said company was meager and, moreover, there was abnormal rise in
 price of shares, it could be concluded that assessee introduced her
 own unaccounted money in garb of long term capital gain and, thus,
 claim raised by her was to be rejected. In the case of Pankaj Agarwal
 and Sons (HUF), the ITAT. Chennai vide order dated 06-12-2018 has
 held that plea that opportunity to cross examine the witness was not
 given and investigation report was not furnished is not relevant if
 assessee is unable to successfully controvert findings of the AO. 6.5 In a most recent landmark decision involving penny stock
 cases, the Hon'ble Kolkata HC in ITA No 60 of 2022 and etc batch
 vide order dated 14-06-2022 has allowed the department's plea
 against a batch of 90 appeals against the entities that had
 allegedly misused capital gains provisions to evade thousands
 crores in taxes. 6.6 In view of above, the contention of the appellant as regards
 addition of Rs 1,35,90,569/- u/s 68 of the Act cannot be accepted. The
 action of the AO to add this amount is confirmed. 7. The appellant has contended that the Learned Assessing Officer
 erred on facts and in law in making addition of Rs. 8,38,735/- u/s 69C
 on account of alleged payment of commission expenses for arranging
 so called accommodation entries. It is submitted that the assumption of
 the AO that the assessee paid 6% commission for acquiring the
 accommodation entries are incorrect and without any basis. 7.1 As regards the contentions of the appellant against addition of
 commission u/s 69C of the Act, it is observed that the AO has
 discussed the basis for holding that commission at 3% to 6% of
 LTCG/STCG has been charged from the clients but the assessee has
 not accounted for this expenses. Therefore, after considering the
 submission of the assessee and on the basis of evidence and
 statement of the operators/ promoters of penny stock companies, the
 AO has concluded that the assessee has not disclosed the payment of
 above commission paid and hence has made the addition u/s 69C . As
 the addition has been made by the AO on justifiable reasons, the same
 is upheld and the ground of appeal of the Appellant is dismissed. 8. In the result, the appeal of the appellant is dismissed." 5. As the assessee not find any favour from the order of the ld. CIT(A)/NFAC the assessee has preferred an appeal before this 11 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur tribunal on the grounds raised here in above. The ld. AR appearing

on behalf of the assessee has placed his written submission in

respect of the various grounds raised by the assessee, the same is

reiterated here in below; 1. At the outset it is submitted that various observations made by
 the AO in the assessment order more particularly at Para 4.1, 5 & 7.1
 of the order is factually incorrect as explained hereinafter:- 0248369 of HDFC bank on 02.11.2011 (PB 41). The same is reflected
 in the Balance Sheet as on 31.03.2012 (PB 50-51). The assessee
 opened Demat account with CDSL on 14.11.2011 (PB 44-48). The
 shares of Smart Champ IT & Infra Ltd. was credited in the Demat
 account on 17.02.2011 (PB 29 & 46). Thereafter Smart Champ IT &
 Infra Ltd. amalgamated with Cressanda Solutions Ltd. and in
 pursuance of Bombay High Court order dt. 24.01.2013, 30000 shares
 of Cressanda Solutions Ltd. was credited in the demat account of
 assessee on 06.03.2013 (PB 29). Thus, it is incorrectly inferred on part
 of AO that evidence of payment made for purchase of shares is not
 filed and that the shares were dematerialised only 2 to 2 ½ months
 before the date of sale. (ii) The observation that financials of Cressanda Solutions Ltd. and
 movement of the price of its shares is abrupt and unrealistic would not
 make the transaction of assessee as non genuine in as much as these
 shares are listed in stock exchange and assessee has genuinely
 purchased and sold the shares for which the evidence is on record. It is
 not the case of lower authorities that they have any evidence that cash
 has exchanged hands in lieu of purchase/ sale of shares. Cressanda
 Solutions Ltd. is an active compliant company listed in stock exchange
 having paid up capital of Rs.39.85 cr. and has filed its Balance Sheet
 as on 31.03.2021 to ROC as evident from the master data extracted
 from the site of Ministry of Corporate Affairs (copy enclosed). (iii) It is observed that Chairman & Managing Director and other
 Directors of Cressanda Solutions Ltd. stated that they were involved in
 providing accommodation entries but neither the name of Director is
 mentioned in the order nor any query was raised by AO in course of
 assessment proceedings on this issue nor copy of statement of any
 person is provided/ opportunity to cross examine was given. The 12 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur further observation in Para 4.1 that DDIT (Inv.), Kolkata has provided
the opportunity to cross examine is also factually incorrect and without
any evidence. (iv) The assessee sold these shares on various dates in the month
of May & June 2013 for Rs.1,38,90,569/- through broker Hem
Securities Ltd. on which STT was paid. Bank account statement
showing receipts from sale of shares is at PB 27-28. Sale bills of broker
was furnished by the assessee during the course of assessment
proceedings vide letter dt. 28.11.2016 (PB 40 & 52-59). It is not the
case of lower authorities that assessee has paid cash against receipt of
sale proceeds of shares by cheque. Hence, only on assumption,
presumption, surmises and conjectures and by assuming incorrect
facts, the sale of shares cannot be treated as bogus or non-genuine. 2. It is submitted that the various observations and conclusions
drawn by lower authorities are based on suspicion, surmises and
hearsay. It is trite law that suspicion, however, strong cannot partake
the character of legal evidence ( Lal Chand Bhagat Ambika Ram Vs.
CIT 37 ITR 288 - SC). The suspicion or presumption, however strong it
may appear to be to true, needs to be corroborated by some evidence
to establish a link that the assessee has brought back his unaccounted
income in form of LTCG. In this connection reference can be made to
the judgment of Special Bench of Mumbai, ITAT in case of GTC
Industries Vs. ACIT 164 ITD 1 where in Para 46, it is observed as
under:- Another very strong probable factor is that the entire scheme of 'twin
branding' and collection of premium was so designed that assessee
company need not incur advertisement expenses and the responsibility
for sales promotion and advertisement lies wholly upon wholesale
buyers who will borne out these expenses from alleged collection of
premium. The probable factors could have gone against the assessee
only if there would have been some evidence found from several
searches either conducted by DRI or by the department that Assessee
Company was beneficiary of any such accounts. At least something
would have been unearthed from such global level investigation by two
Central Government authorities. In case of certain donations given to a
Church, originating through these benami bank accounts on the behest
of one of the employees of the assessee company, does not implicate
that GTC as a corporate entity was having the control of these bank 13 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur accounts completely. Without going into the authenticity and veracity of
the statements of the witnesses Smt. Nirmala Sundaram, we are of the
opinion that this one incident of donation through bank accounts at the
direction of one of the employee of the Company does not implicate
that the entire premium collected all throughout the country and
deposited in Benami bank accounts actually belongs to the assessee
company or the assessee company had direct control on these bank
accounts. Ultimately, the entire case of the revenue hinges upon the
presumption that assessee is bound to have some large share in so
called secret money in the form of premium and its circulation.
However, this presumption or suspicion how strong it may appear to be
true, but needs to be corroborated by some evidence to establish a link
that GTC actually had some kind of a share in such secret money. It is
quite a trite law that suspicion how so ever strong may be but cannot
be the basis of addition except for some material evidence on record.
The theory of 'preponderance of probability' is applied to weigh the
evidences of either side and draw a conclusion in favour of a party
which has more favourable factors in his side. The conclusions have to
be drawn on the basis of certain admitted facts and materials and not
on the basis of presumption of facts that might go against assessee.
Once nothing has been proved against the assessee with aid of any
direct material especially when various rounds of investigation have
been carried out, then nothing can be implicated against the assessee. In the assessee's case also, no evidence whatsoever, direct or indirect
is brought on record by the AO to prove that assessee introduced his
own unaccounted money by way of sale of shares. Therefore, in view
of the above judgment of Special Bench, the various judgments relied
upon by the lower authorities are irrelevant in as much as the said
judgments are based on conclusions drawn on the basis of
circumstantial evidences only without any material evidence on record. 3. It is submitted that the assessee has furnished all the evidences
in support of its claim. The purchase of shares has been accepted by
the AO in the year of its acquisition and thereafter, until the same were
sold. The off-market transaction for purchase of shares by way of
allotment is not illegal. The transactions were through account payee
cheque and the same is reflected in the Demat account. The sale of
shares suffered STT, brokerages, etc. The AO has not brought any
evidence which indicates that assessee has given cash/ received cash
in lieu of sale/ purchase of shares. No enquiry report of the SEBI/any
broker/investigation wing containing the name of assessee were
provided to the assessee. In these circumstances, it cannot be held
that the transaction is bogus. Apart from case laws relied before Ld.
CIT(A), reliance is further placed on the following decisions:- PCIT Vs. Smt. Krishna Devi (2021) 279 Taxman 148 (Del.) (HC) (Case
laws compilation PB 11-16)
The findings of Hon'ble High Court at Para 11 & 12 reads as under:- Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO , Jaipur

Late Sh. Satpal Singh Vs. ACIT ITA No.289/JP/20 order dt. 14.10.2021
(Jaipur) (Trib.) (Case laws compilation PB 17-37)
Where assessee has satisfied all the conditions for claiming exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act and has furnished all the required evidence for
purchase as well as sale of shares which include copies of bills for
purchase of share, contract notes for sale of share, Demat account and
bank statement evidencing payments for purchase of shares & receipts
against sale of shares by account payee cheques, long term capital
gain declared by the assessee cannot be treated as bogus. DCIT Vs. Saurabh Mittal (2018) 172 DTR 291 (Jaipur) (Trib.) (Case
laws compilation PB 38-59)
Assessee having produced all relevant evidence to substantiate the
purchase of shares of two companies by producing his bank statement,
dematerialization of the shares and sale of said shares from the D-mat
account at the prevailing price after payment of STT, it cannot be held
that the transactions were bogus and that the assessee has introduced
his own unaccounted income in the shape of long-term capital gain.
General statements of three brokers recorded by the Investigation
Wing wherein they have admitted their involvement in providing
accommodation entries of bogus capital gains without naming the
assessee could not be made the basis of addition under sec. 68 more
so when cross examination was not allowed to the assessee. Nishant Kantilal Patel Vs. ITO (2022) 214 DTR 209 (Surat) (Trib.)
(Case laws compilation PB 60-84)
Assessee having produced the contract notes issued by the broker,
date of sale of shares, price at which the sale was negotiated,
brokerage charged, STT paid by assessee, BSE transaction charges,
stamp duty and other charges deducted from the sale consideration
and the AO having not brought any evidence on record to show that
cash was recycled back to the assessee, the transactions of purchase
and sale of shares by the assessee are acceptable as genuine
transactions and therefore, the impugned addition made u/s 68 by
treating the long-term capital gain as accommodation entry is not
sustainable. Sandipkumar Parsottambhai Patel Vs. ITO (2022) 214 DTR 251 (Surat)
(Trib.) (Case laws compilation PB 85-98)
Assessee having furnished all relevant evidences in the form of bills,
contract notes, demat statement and bank account to prove the
genuineness of transactions of purchase and sale of shares and there
being no evidence that the assessee has paid cash in return of the
receipt through cheques, it has to be accepted that the share
transactions which were carried out by the assessee through
recognized stock exchange were genuine and therefore, sale proceeds
of the shares cannot be treated as undisclosed income of the assessee u/s 68 . Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur 4. It may be noted that Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in case of PCIT
 Vs. Swati Bajaj vide order dt. 14.06.2022 in bunch of cases involving
 90 cases where the Tribunal in a single order allowed the appeal of
 assessee with reference to the order of CIT(A)/ order of CIT u/s 263 ,
 has approved the finding of CIT(A)/ CIT u/s 263 but in this decision it
 only discussed the fact of Mrs. Swati Bajaj where AO noted that in a
 short span of 17-21 months assessee managed to sale shares with
 impugned value of about 2823% that too when the general market rate
 was recessive and based on its decision on the investigation report dt.
 27.04.2015 by PCIT(Inv.), Kolkata in respect of bogus LTCG. However,
 the facts of individual cases were not discussed. Thus, this decision
 cannot override the decision of Rajasthan High Court referred supra. 5. We may further point out that the lower authorities have
 confirmed the addition of sale proceeds without even reducing the cost
 of Rs.3 lacs incurred by the assessee in FY 2011-12. Further the
 assumption of lower authorities that assessee had paid commission of
 6% for acquiring alleged accommodation entries is on surmises,
 conjectures, assumptions and presumptions without any evidence of
 such payment. Hence, addition of Rs.8,38,735/- on account of
 unexplained expenditure u/s 69C be deleted. In view of above, addition confirmed by Ld. CIT(A) be directed to be
 deleted. 6. The ld. AR of the assessee in addition to the above written

submission, has filed a detailed paper book wherein photocopy of

the various submission and documents relied upon by the

assessee to support the grounds raised by him, index of the paper

book is extracted here in below : 6.1. To support the contentions raised by the ld. AR he has also

relied upon the following judicial decisions: - PCIT Vs. Sh. Sanjay Chhabra DBITA No.22/2021 order dt.
 06.04.2022
2 Copy of decision of Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in case of 5-7
 PCIT Vs. Sh. Prakash Chand Sharma DBITA No.1/2021 order dt.
 12.05.2022

3 Copy of decision of Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in case of 8-10
 PCIT Vs. Smt. Kalawati Sharma DBITA No.57/2021 order dt.
 17.05.2022

4 Copy of decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of PCIT Vs. 11-16
 Smt. Krishna Devi (2021) 279 Taxman 148

5 Copy of decision of Hon'ble ITAT, Jaipur Bench in case of Late 17-37
 Sh. Satpal Singh Vs. ACIT ITA No.289/JP/20 order dt.
 14.10.2021 19 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur 6 Copy of decision of Hon'ble ITAT, Jaipur Bench in case of DCIT 38-59
 Vs. Saurabh Mittal (2018) 172 DTR 291

7 Copy of decision of Hon'ble ITAT, Surat Bench in case of Nishant 60-84 Kantilal Patel Vs. ITO (2022) 214 DTR 209

8 Copy of decision of Hon'ble ITAT, Surat Bench in case of 85-98 Sandipkumar Parsottambhai Patel Vs. ITO (2022) 214 DTR 251 7. The ld. AR of the assessee in addition to the written

submission relying on the paper book submitted that the assessee

has applied the shares in question and the same has been directly

allotted by the company on payment of an account payee cheque. There is no contrary finding rejecting this primary evidence

submitted by the assessee. The finding recorded at para 4.1 that

the assessee has not availed the opportunity provided to cross

examination of Sanjay Vora and Shri Narendra Belasia is incorrect. The finding recorded by the ld. AO at para 5 that the shares were

purchased from Hem Securities Ltd is incorrect. The ld. AO has not

proved that the assessee has paid cash in consideration of gain

recorded in his bank account. The ld. AO has not commented

about the credential and the financial of the company and without

that how he can arrive at a conclusion that the gain is bogus. The

ld. AR of the assessee submitted that the findings recorded in para

6 and its sub paras recorded by the assessing officer are not 20 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur correct and the same have been recorded without considering the

submission of the assessee made in the proceedings before him. The ld. AO as well as the ld. CIT(A) has not applied the

independent mind while arriving at the findings given in the orders

of the lower authorities. Nothing adverse against the assessee is

recorded in the report of the investigation wing and in the

assessment order against the evidences submitted by the

assessee. To drive home to his contentions the ld. AR of the

assessee has relied upon the various decision including the

jurisdictional high court on cross examination and submission and

addition made merely on the basis of the investigation report. The

ld. AR in short submitted that the assessee has done the genuine

transaction and is supported on the evidences submitted. 8. Au contraire the ld. DR is heard who relied on the findings of

the lower authorities and vehemently argued that the entire scheme

is unearthed in the investigation done by the department and

thereby established that the paper work is managed in an

organized manner so as to show the real which is in fact is not real. In this case assessee has managed the paper work with the help of

the broker and shown the long-term capital gain which is not 21 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur genuine. The ld. DR further contended that the production of bills,

allotment of shares or payments by an account payee have been

made by the account payee cheque again by itself shows that the

commission agents managed this transaction. However, mere

payment by account payee cheque is not sacrosanct and it will not

make otherwise non-genuine transaction genuine one. The ld. DR

relying on the detailed finding of the ld. AO given in para 7.1 (i) to (vii) that the transaction is fabricated and not real as the investment

of 3 lakh only has resulted a gain of Rs. 1,39,78,925/- which is

unrealistic and fabricated. The ld. DR relying on the letter of the

Principal Director of Income Tax (investigation) Kolkata vide letter

number F.No 75A /2015-16/257-273 dated: 27-04-2015 forwarded

the report of the investigation wing report and the same was

available on the online and it became public and the order of the

assessing officer is passed much after on 06.12.2016 and thus the

assessee cannot take a shelter that the report of the investigation

wing is not made available to him and his contention is not

maintainable. The ld. DR further drawn our attention to the findings

recorded at para 4 of the assessment order wherein the finding is

recorded that the company who has allotted the shares to the

assessee themselves has agreed in a survey conducted by the 22 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur department that they are engaged in providing bogus

accommodation entry of LTCG. The statement of the directors was

recorded at the time of survey wherein they have confirmed on

oath that they provided and accommodation entry in the form of

short term or long term capital gains. In the report of the

investigation wing listed penny stocks companies were indentified

which were used for generating bogus LTCG and in this list name

of the company is appearing at Sr. No. 69. The ld. DR further

based on that report submitted that in the script CRESSANDA

SOLUTIONS LTD total trade of Rs. 12,73,18,95,395/- have been

done and the companies involved in the purchase and sale for

making this much transactions are all jamakharchi companies to

accommodate the long term gain transactions. This allegation has

not been controverted by the assessee. The ld. AR of the assessee

submitted that they have not been given the copy of the relied upon

report and an opportunity to cross examine the witness relied upon. To counter these contentions of the assessee the ld. DR relied

upon the arguments advanced by the revenue in the case of Swati

Bajaj recorded by the Calcutta High Court in the judgement the

relevant arguments as recorded and relied upon is as under : 9. The Calcutta High Court further observed in relation to the

cross examination. The relevant finding relied upon is reiterated

here in below: Thus, Tribunal has in depth analyzed balance sheets and profit
and loss accounts of Cressanda Solution is Ltd. Which shows
that astronomical increase in share price of said company which
led to returns of 491 % for Appellant, was completely unjustified.
Pertinently, EPS of said company was Rs. 0.01/- as in March
2016, it was Rs. 0.01/- as in March 2015 and -0.48/- as in March
2014. Similarly other financial parameters of said company
cannot justify price in excess of Rs. 500/ - at which Appellant 28 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur claims to have sold said shares to obtain Long Term Capital
Gains. It is not explained as to why anyone would purchase said
shares at such high price. Tribunal goes on to observe in impugned order as follows: Similarly tribunal in case of Udit Kalra ITA No. 6717/Del/2017 for 29 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur assessment year 2014-15 has categorically held that when there
was specific confirmation with Revenue that assessee has
indulged in ITA 841/2019 page 8 of 10 non-genuine and bogus
capital gains obtained from transactions of purchase and sale of
shares, it can be good reason to treat transactions as bogus
difference of case of Udit Kalra attempted by Ld. AR does not
add any credence to justify transactions. Investigation Wing has
also conducted enquires which proved that assessee is also one
of beneficiaries of transactions and entries provided,, Even BSE
listed this company as being used for generating bogus LTCG.
On facts of case and judicial pronouncements will give rise to
only conclusion that entire activities of assessee is colourable
device to obtain bogus capital gains. Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
in case of Udit Kalra ITA No. 220/2009 held that company had
meagre resources and astronomical growth of value of
company's shares only excited suspicion of Revenue and
hence, treated receipts of sale of shares to be bogus. Hon'ble
High Court has also dealt with arguments of assessee that he
was denied right of cross examination of individuals whose
statements led to enquiry. Ld. AR arguments that no question of
law has been framed in case of Udit Kalra also does not make
any tangible difference to decision of this Case, Since additions
have been confirmed based on enquiries by Revenue, taking
into consideration ratio laid down by various High Courts and
Hon'ble Supreme Court, our decision is equally applicable to
receipts obtained from all three entities. Further, reliance is also
placed on orders of various Courts and Tribunals listed below. MK Rajeshwari vs. ITO in ITA No. 17231Bang/2018, order dated
12.10.2018. Abhimanyu Soin vs. Sanjay Bimalchand Jain
vs. ITO 89 taxmann.com 196. Dinesh Kumar Khandelwal, HUF
vs. ITO in ITA No. 58 & 591 Nag/2015, order dated 24.08.2016. Ratnakar M Pujari vs. ITO in IT no. 995/Mum/2012, order dated
03.08.2016. ITA 841/2019 page 9 of 10 Disha N. Lalwani
vs. ITO in ITA No. 6389/Mum/2012, order dated
22.03.2017. ITO vs. Shamin M. Bharwani MANU/1U/0493/2015 : 1,39,78,925/-. In the case of this company the survey was

conducted as per provision of section 133A of the Act at the

premises of the company and sworn depositions of the Chairman

and Managing Director and other directors have been recorded. In

that proceedings they have confirmed on oath that they have

provided and accommodated bogus long term capital gains. The

assessee purchased shares on 19.11.2011 and the same was

dematerialized by assessee just before 2 to 2/12 month of sales. In

this company SEBI has also taken action for the alleged violation of

SEBI laws. The SEBI has put the script Cressanda under 32 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur surveillance measure and levied the penalty for the breach done by

the said Cressanda. The ld. AR of the assessee has merely stated

his claim is supported by evidence for allotment of shares made by

the company and the payment were paid and received by normal

banking channel. Merely the payment were received by cheque

will not help the assessee as the director of the company have

already confirmed in the sworn statement that they were engaged

in the accommodation entry of STCL/LTCG. As regard the claim of

the assessee that the investigation report was not made available

to him the ld. DR demonstrated that the report was available in

public domain in 2015 and the order in the case of the assessee

was made in December 2016. Thus, the plea of the assessee that

the report was not made available to him by the AO will also not

help. The statement of the person who's surrendered made is

general statement based on the other circumstantial evidences

relied upon by the revenue and in the recent decision in the case of

Swasti Bajaj case the court held that right to cross-examine the

witness who made adverse report is not an invariable attribute of

the requirement of the dictum, "audi alteram partem". The

principles of natural justice do not require formal cross-examination

Formal cross- examination is a part of procedural justice. It is 33 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur governed by the rules of evidence, and is the creation of Court, it is

a part of legal and statutory justice therefore, it cannot be laid down

as a general proposition of law that the revenue cannot rely on any

evidence which has not been subjected to cross- examination. We

find that the Assessing Officer in the assessment order has

referred to the detailed investigation and reasoning recorded in his

order vide para 7 (i) to (xiii) including the modus operandi of the

bogus accommodation entry, thereafter, concluded that the

assessee has managed his Long Term Capital Gain based on that

reasoning. The ld. AO further referred to statement of the parties

who are at the helms of the affairs of the company where in was

categorically confirmed that they have provided accommodation

entry through managing and controlling the shares of the

companies, in which the assessee has also transacted. The

Assessing Officer thereafter asked the assessee to justify the

rationale behind investment in this penny stock company not

having financial worth. The price of the shares of the company is

abrupt, unrealistic and without any strong parameters. The history

of the investment made by the assessee also reveals that

assessee does not deal in shares on regular basis. The purchases

were made off market as managed by the brokers and directors to 34 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur suits the needs of the assessee. The shares were dematerialized

only just 2 to 2/1/2 month of the sale made. The directors of the

company categorically confirmed that they have involved in

providing accommodation entries regarding sale and purchase of

shares through this company. The purchase and sales are not

genuine in the light of the fact that the there are no real buyer and

seller of this company's share and the same is managed by the

brokers and entry operators. The evidentiary value of payment of

security transaction tax (STT) cannot make a non-genuine

transaction, a genuine one. The scrip is purchased at very low

price which was over a period time ramped up by operators. The

purchases are off market and not reported to the exchange. The

purchases even though made earlier the same were dematerialized

only close to the date of sale. We find from the facts and

arguments advanced by both the parties that the decision of

jurisdictional high court in the case of Sanjay Chhabra hold a view

that prejudice is caused to the assessee when material used

against him is not provided and opportunity of cross examination is

not provided. In this regard the Hon'ble Supreme Court, including

the decision in the case Andaman Timbers Industries vs.

Commissioner of Central Excise , Kolkata-II reported in 35 ITA No. 318/JP/2022 Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur

MANU/SC/1250/2015: 2015 (324) E.L.T. 641 (SC), 2017 (50)

S.T.R. 93 (SC), 2016 (15) SCC 785 held as under: Based on these reasoned finding we are of the considered view

that the long term capital gain claimed by the assessee under section 10(38) of the Act as exempt from the tax is not real but the

same is bogus. Therefore, we do not find any infirmity in the

reasoned findings of the ld. CIT(A) in the instant case and

therefore, we confirm the order of the ld. CIT(A) and dismissed the

appeal of the assessee having no merits and thus ground no. 1 & 2

raised by the assessee is dismissed. Since, the assessee has not

altered or amended any grounds of appeal ground no 3 does not

require our adjudication and since we have dismissed the ground

no 1 & 2 of the assessee consequent to that the ground no. 4 is

also dismissed. Harish Sharma HUF, Jaipur vs. ITO, Jaipur

 In the result the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 11/11/2022. vkns'k dh izfrfyfi vxzfs 'kr@Copy of the order forwarded to: