Indian Home Minister Amit Shah launched a Central Suspect Registry during the first foundation day celebration of the Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre (14C) in New Delhi. Additionally, Shah also announced three other initiatives today to address cybercrime issues. This includes the Cyber Fraud Mitigation Centre (CFMC), the Samanvaya Platform, and the Cyber Commandos program.

“Cybersecurity is no longer restricted to the digital world. It is an important part of national security,” said Shah during the event.

Under this initiative, the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (NCRP) will create a database of various identifiers, in collaboration with banks and financial intermediaries to strengthen the fraud risk management capabilities of the financial ecosystem.

According to the Home Minister, a Suspect Registry at the central level consolidates data on suspects from across the country into a single platform. He said, “Cyber suspect registry being in state silos does not work. States have borders and so do the state registries. So, we felt the need to create a centralised suspect registry that connects to all states.”

The Samanvaya Platform (Joint Cybercrime Investigation Facilitation System) acts as a single data repository of cybercrime, data sharing, crime mapping, data analytics, cooperation, and coordination for law enforcement agencies across India.

Representatives of major banks, financial intermediaries, payment aggregators, Telecom Service Providers (TSPs), IT intermediaries, and states/UTs Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) came together to form the Cyber Fraud Mitigation Centre (CFMC). The initiative will address online financial crimes. Shah also suggested that the CFMC should leverage artificial intelligence (AI) to identify such cybercrime.

This program will create a special wing of ‘Cyber Commandos’ in states/UTs and Central Police Organisations (CPOs) to counter cyber security threats. According to Shah, the central government plans to set up 5,000 commandos in five years.

This comes at a time when the Home Affairs ministry recently launched a real-time cybercrime tracking website called “Pratibimb”. This Geographic Information System (GIS)-based software will assist police to track down cybercriminals.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event