South Korea’s police have launched a probe into Telegram over the spread of deepfake porn on the platform, according to a report by Forbes. The investigation began over allegations that the platform was “abetting” the distribution of sexually explicit deepfakes. Woo Jong-soo, head of the National Office of Investigation, told reporters that the authorities were first launching an internal investigation into the platform before booking it, “as France had done.”

South Korea’s President Yoon Suk Yeol has declared an emergency over the rising rates of digital sex crimes in the country, which largely stem from deepfake pornography targeting young women and underage girls.

This development follows the French authorities’ recent arrest of Telegram CEO Pavel Durov as part of a probe into organized crime on the app. The French authorities have charged Durov with various offenses, including refusing to provide documents/information necessary for intercepting illegal activities and allegations that the platform has been used to facilitate illegal transactions.

This is not the first time that South Korea has seen a surge in concerns around Telegram.  In 2019, South Korean authorities discovered an online sex ring on the platform. Blackmailers forced over 70 women (including minors) to film content which they then sold on Telegram chat rooms, according to a Korean Herald report .

More recently, India has also reportedly begun investigating Telegram for extortion and gambling. The Ministry of Home Affairs’ Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre (I4C) and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) are reportedly conducting a joint probe into the platform which can potentially lead to it getting blocked in India.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event