Hon'ble S.C. Chaurasia,J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Devi Prasad Singh, J.)
 

 
1-	In these bunch of writ petitions, common questions of fact and law are involved, hence with the consent of the parties, writ petitions are decided by the present common judgment. FACTS 
 
2-	Petitioners possess BAMS, BHMS and BUMS degrees and the degree with regard to pharmacist from recognized colleges and entitled to practice and discharge their obligations in accordance to statutory provisions. They were appointed under the scheme framed by the Government of India implemented by State of U.P., namely National Rural Health Mission (2005-2012) (in short NRHM) by the State authorities. The scheme commenced in the year 2005 and sheduled to continue upto 2012. The NRHM scheme is wholly financed by Government of India as additional grant to improve health and hygienic condition of the State of U.P. The Government of India is continuing with the original scheme and provided sufficient fund but the State authorities took a decision to discontinue the service of Male Ayush doctors and pharmacists. Being aggrieved with the decision of the Government, the petitioners have preferred the present bunch of writ petitions. 3-	The undisputed facts on record are that the NRHM Programme has been conceived by the Government of India and is being implemented and executed by the State Government through Special Purpose Vehicles created at the State level and also at the District level in the form of State Health Society and District Health Societies registered under the Societies Registration Act . These societies have been entrusted with the work relating to the NRHM under the Project Implementation Plan (in short, PIP). The PIP is approved by the Government of India. The society at State level and District level are executing the work of NRHM as additional support to the mainstream Health Care System of the State Government to run Medical, Health and Family Welfare Department by introducing NRHM. The Government of India had tried to improve deficient health system of the State of U.P. by providing necessary funds, medicines with liberty to engage the doctors having degree of Unani, Homeopath and Ayurved medicines. The PIP is prepared by the State authorities with the active participation of Mission Director, State Project Management Unit (in short, S.P.M.U.), State Health Society of the NRHM U.P. 
 
4-	It is not disputed that right from 2005 i.e. from beginning of NRHM scheme the Male, Famale qualified Ayush doctors and pharmacists were appointed on contract basis and their tenure of service have been renewed after the grant provided by the Government of India subject to satisfactory work. It has further been admitted by the opposite parties that a memorandum of understanding has been entered into between the Central Government and the State Government, inter alia, provides that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India shall provide resources to support implementation of an agreed State NRHM Sector Programme Implementation Plan. According to memorandum of understanding, Project Implementation Programme is prepared at State level to implement NRHM Programme with due approval of Central Government. With regard to years 2011-2012, plan has been sent to Government of India and the approval is awaited according to Para 8 of the counter affidavit filed by Mohd. Mustafa, the Mission Director of S.P.M.U. 
 
5-	While filing affidavit, it has been specifically pleaded that in the PIP for 2011-2012, provision for Male Ayush doctors and pharmacists has not been made. For convenience, Para 8 of the Counter affidavit filed by Shri Mohd. Mustafa, Mission Director of S.P.M.U is reproduced as under:- 6-	The reason for justification in not appointing Male Ayush doctors and Pharmacists has been enumerated in Para 11 of the Counter affidavit. filed by Mission Director. It has been stated that the Ayush doctors, who possess degree of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems of medicine are not entitled to profess allopathic medicine practice. Ayush Health Care Facility has been provided in Primary Health Care Centre, Community Health Care Centers and District Hospitals. The employment of Ayush Doctors is the responsibility of the Department of Medical Education and to supervise the programme for the purpose of separate cadre of Ayush doctors has been prepared under the scheme. The Ayush doctors from Ayurvedic and Unani stream are posted at PHCs called MOCH (Medical Officer, Community Health) with separate cadre. The function of the NRHM is to mainstream these Ayush doctors and not to employ them. It is further stated that in the year 2009-10, 147 male Ayush Doctors and 500 Pharmacists were engaged for the first time in NRHM. In the year 2010-2011, 1140 male Ayush doctors and 759 Pharmacists were engaged, but on account of non availability of Ayush medicines during 2009-2010 and 2010-2011, their services could not be utilized and the salary paid to these doctors has become waste. It is further stated that the Government of India has not provided essential drugs and medicines to Ayush Hospitals and Dispensaries established under the scheme in terms of Operational Guidelines dated 3.9.2009 as amended upto date. It is further stated that a request of State Government has not been considered by the Government of India to provide medicines and drugs for Ayuush doctors, hence while preparing the revised PIP the State Government took a decision not to appoint Male Ayush Doctors and Pharmacists. Decision to appoint female Ayush doctors has been taken to utilize their services in the Anti Natal and Post Natal care service. 7-	While filing counter affidavit, Mission Director, Mohd. Mustafa admitted in para 11 that in the original PIP prepared by the State Government sent to Central Government on 28.3.2011, a request was made with regard to Male Ayush doctors but subsequently PIP was modified on 19.4.2011. Government of India's approval with regard to PIP sent on 19.4.2011 is awaited. It has been submitted by the petitioners' counsel that in pursuance to original PIP dated 28.3.2011 in 23 districts of the State, Ayush male doctors were appointed. Agreements were signed and they have resumed their work. Later on, under the modified PIP on 19.4.2011, a decision was taken to cancel the contract of respective Male Ayush doctors. 8-	State of U.P. through its Principal Secretary Nita Chaudhari took defence that NRHM Scheme is monitored by state unit of NRHM Mission and Govt. has no role to play. Paras 2, 3 and 4 of the affidavit dated 11.5.2011 are reproduced as under:- 9-	On the other hand, learned counsel for the petitioners stated that the petitioners have applied in pursuance to advertisement issued on 23.6.2010 for the year 2011-2012, copy of which has been filed as Annexure no. 6 to the writ petition and appointment letter was issued, but later on they have been disengaged. It is further stated that though in some places, Ayush doctors were disengaged and in other places, have been retained. It is further stated by the petitioners' counsel that once the State Government while sending the PIP on 28.3.2011 followed the decision, which the State Government, Mission Director while preparing the PIP on 20.3.2011 approved for continuance of Ayush Male doctors and Pharmacists then later on they were not justified in changing the PIP on 19.4.2011, more so when no new facts came to light depriving the petitioners' continuance of service that too when the NRHM is still continuing and the Government of India is ready to provide fund for the year 2011-2012 also. 10-	Learned counsel for the petitioners has given emphasis on the fact that because of efficient discharge of duty by the Male Ayush doctors, the vaccination and routine immunization programme in the State of U.P. increased enormously i.e. from 27% to 70%. While sending the proposal, the Principal Secretary of the Department of Health and Family Welfare requested the Government of India to increase the posts of Male Ayush doctors as well as to enhance the salary from Rs. 24,000-30,000/- Attention has been invited to the original scheme prepared by the State Government, copy of which has been annexed as Annexure No. 8 to the writ petition no. 769 (S/B) of 2011 where the Government opined that in the year 2011-2012, Government wants to recruit additional 499 Ayush doctors (199 female and 300 male). However, it has been observed that due to non availability of Ayush drugs, services of doctors have not been fully utilized. The Government had requested to optimally utilize Ayush human resource. The budgetary demands have been increased to Rs. 10,584.00 lacs for the year 2011-2012 and appropriate training may be granted to such staff. 11-	Learned counsel for the petitioners further invited attention towards the letter of Medical Superintendent, Gorakhpur dated 31.3.2011 whereby he had requested to renew the services of Ayush male doctors. Such recommendation has been sent by some other Chief Medical Officer/Medical Superintendent for the renewal of services of Male Ayush doctors. Attention has been invited to another letter dated 6.4.2011 of General Manager (Administration) to Director General, Medical and Health, U.P. (Annexure no. 10 to the writ petition) indicating therein that the PIP had granted approval for appointment of Male Ayush doctors in 2011-2012. Letter dated 6.4.2011 of Director General, Family Welfare, U.P. (Annexure no. 11 to the writ petition) further provides that the services of Ayush doctors shall be renewed subject to their satisfactory discharge of duty for the year 2011-2012 keeping in view the sanction granted by the Central Government. Annexure 11 to the writ petition is re-produced as under:- Apart from above, the Government of India's website reveals that 1900 ANMs are under training, who shall be available from April onwards and shall be posted at 975 sub centres in high focused districts and 718 in other districts. It further provides that 200 NRMs posted in Urban Health Posts/PPCs will be provided an honorarium of Rs. 9000/- per month and remaining 2300 ANMs @ Rs. 11000/-. Strength of Staff Nurses shows in the Government of India's website is 1584. Total staff nurses are required to operationalize MCH centres and will be paid Rs. 15000/- per month and Rs. 17000/- in Urban areas and other area respectively. The Website further reveals that there shall be 550 Pharmacists/Lab tech/ECG Tech/X-ray Tech/Physio, etc. Apart from above, 150 paramedical and they shall be paid salary of Rs. 10000/- and 12000/- per month in Urban and Non Urban areas. Apart from above, Data Assistants/Computer Operators have also been provided in various hospitals. Thus, it appears that the Government of India even upto 25.5.2011 took a stand with regard to appointment of Male Ayush doctors, Pharmacists etc. and proposal is under consideration. However, in what manner, the State took a decision to appoint only Female Ayush doctors and not Male Ayush doctors and Pharmacists, is not borne out from record. 14-	While defending the impugned order, the State took defence while filing the counter affidavit that in spite of repeated letters sent to the Government of India, medicine was not provided, hence in consequence thereof, the State under compulsion took a decision not to appoint Male Ayush doctors (supra). Later on, during the course of hearing, there has been shifting of stand by the State. A note sheet dated 15.4.2011 has been produced before the Court with defence that the Government of India had directed to reduce the budget for NRHM Scheme i.e. from Rs. 3733.93 crores to Rs. 3300.00 crores. Hence, in consequence thereof, under compulsion, the State took a decision not to appoint Pharmacists and Male Ayush doctors. Though the defence taken by the State is on account of non-availability of fund, but the note sheet duly signed by the authorities indicates otherwise for the revision of PIP. The first page of note sheet as observed in the order sheet dated 31.5.2011 has not been signed but the second page of note sheet has been signed by General Manager (planning) General Manager, NRHM, Neeta Chaudhari, Chairman, Executive Body countersigned by Shri Anoop Mishra, Chief Secretary, Government of U.P. At the face of record, the argument advanced by the learned Chief Standing Counsel is based on unfounded fact. The note sheet, copy of which has been submitted to the Court as well as perused on 31.5.2011 during the course of hearing does not contain a proposal not to appoint Pharmacists or Male Ayush doctors. Entire note sheet is re-produced as under:- 27-	The Word and Phrases Permanent Edition 25 A contains definitions of 'Litigation'. Some of them as as under:- Ga. App. 1914. The term "litigation" as employed in section 5189 of the Civil Code 1895, Civ. Code 1910, 5776, in reference to admissions of defendants if fi. fa. is not confined merely to the determination of a possible issue which may arise after levy , between the plaintiff in fi. fa. And some possible claimant, but includes also the previous suit in which the fi. fa. Had its origin. A "levy" is nothing more than the special procedure or step in the suit by which the judgment may be made effective-Smith vs. Johnson, 80 S.E. 1051, 13 Ga App. 837. Tex. App. Corpus Christi 1994. To determine applicability of privilege for expert reports obtained in anticipation of litigation "litigation" is strictly interpreted to mean institution of lawsuit in courts and does not include other aspects of claims negotiation and settlement outside context of filing of lawsuit. Vernon's Ann. Texas Rules Civ. Proc. Rule 166 b, subd. 3, par. b. Henry P. Robers Investments, Inc. vs. Kelton, 881 S.W. 2 d 952- Pretrial Proc 379. 28-	What are the public interest factors require to be considered by the Court, has been defined as under:- 29-	The "Public Interest Litigant" has been defined as given in Word and Phrases Vol. 35 is reproduced as under:- The Supreme Court in the case reported in AIR 1993 SC 892 Janata Dal vs. H.S. Chowdhary defined the Public Interest Litigation as under:- Aforesaid definition has been reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case reported in (2004) 3 SCC 349 Ashok Kumar Pandey vs. State of West Bengal, AIR 2004 SC 1923 B. Singh vs. Union of India and AIR 2002 SC 350 Balco Employees' Union vs. Union of India . 31-	In a recent judgment reported in (2010) 3 SCC 402 State of Uttranchal vs. Balwant Singh Chaufal and others, Hon'ble Supreme Court after considering the ambit and scope of PIL and tracing out its history in the country, had summarized the ambit and scope of PIL in concluding para 181 of the judgment, which is re-produced as under:- A plain reading of aforesaid mandate of Hon'ble Supreme Court shows that to consider the case under the gist of 'public interest' various conditions should be fulfilled out of which condition no. 7 provides that the Court before entertaining the PIL should ensure that the PIL is aimed at redressal of genuine public harm or public injury. The Court should also ensure that there is no personal gain, private motive or oblique motive behind filing the public interest litigation. The condition laid down and the observation made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court distinguishing the PIL from other cases so that a case could be treated as PIL ordinarily only in case, the case is entertained by the Court to secure public interest and not to deal with private interest. The Courts are not debarred to look into the public interest while dealing with the private interest matter. Merely because public interest is considered while deciding private interest, it shall not change the nature of the case. Things would have been different in case the Court itself feels that the public interest dominates the private respondent and the matter should be referred to PIL bench. 32-	In the case of Guruvayoor Devaswom Managing Committee and another Vs. C.K. Rajan and others reported in (2003) 7 SCC 546, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as follows: The same view (supra) was again reiterated by Hon'ble Supreme Court in AIR 2003 SC 4531, General Manager, Kisan Sahkari Chini Mills Limited, Sultanpur, U.P. versus Satrughna Nishad . 34-	Again similar matter cropped up for consideration before this Court in 2006 (4) A.D.J. 106 (All.) (Full Bench), Suo Moto Action Taken by the Court Versus I.C.I.CI. Bank Ltd. Allahabad and others. The Division Bench of this Court dealing with the habeas corpus petition framed certain issues of public importance involved in the case and referred the matter to Hon. The Chief Justice to register as P.I.L. to be decided by the appropriate court. The Chief Justice, Allahabad High Court constituted a Full Bench considering the case of Ashok Lanka and another (Supra). The Full Bench opined that in a matter the Court, while exercising power conferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India with regard to private dispute, has got ample power to take suo-moto decision with regard to public interest and it shall not change the nature of the writ petition. The expression "Public Interest Litigation" means a legal action initiated in a Court for enforcement of public interest. It is on this principle, Hon'ble Supreme Court interfered in the matter of appointment of judges commonly called as Additional Judges cases, that case is reported in AIR 1982 SC 149 S.P.Gupta vs. Union of India. The Court ruled that if because of illegal State action, the independence of judiciary is impaired, the lawyers would certainly be interested in challenging the constitutionality or legality of such action. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under:- While reiterating the necessity of PIL in India, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under:- 35-	Learned Chief Standing Counsel has relied upon the judgment reported in [2010 (8) ADJ 631 (FB)] Smt. Maya Dixit and others vs. State of U.P. and others and (2010) 10 Supreme Court Cases 320 State of Uttar Pradesh and others vs. Neeraj Chaubey and others . In the case of Maya Dixit, the dispute relates to pending matter where the division bench has framed the issue with regard to hazard and damage caused because of irregular and unsystematic mining. Hon'ble Single Judge (Justice Rakesh Sharma) passed an interim order staying the consequential order passed by the State Government in pursuance to interim order in a pending writ petition and referred the matter to larger bench. The issue was decided in the case of Maya Dixit (supra) and the full bench had rejected the reference and referred the matter back to the Division Bench with the observation that in case the dominant purpose of writ petition and nature of case is converted into public interest litigation, then keeping in view the roaster assigned by the Chief Justice, the matter may be referred to PIL bench. The full bench reiterated the right of Hon'ble Chief Justice. As a matter of fact, no finding has been recorded by the full bench with regard to cases where public interest cropped up while adjudicating the private dispute and whether in every case such petition should be referred to PIL Bench. The full bench has not considered the various pronouncements of Hon'ble Supreme Court including the case of Guruvayoor Devaswom Managing Committee and another (supra). Accordingly, broadly the issue before the full bench was the primacy of Hon'ble Chief Justice in regulating the roaster and accordingly allocation of work and compliance thereof by the judges discharging their obligations. Accordingly, the full bench judgment does not seem to be applicable in the facts and circumstances of the case. 36-	In the case of Neeraj Chaubey (supra) also broadly the issue was with regard to primacy of Hon'ble Chief Justice to provide roaster being the master of roaster. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that in case application is filed and the bench comes to the conclusion that it involves some issue relating to public interest, the Court may in its discretion direct the Registry to place it before the Bench which has got jurisdiction to entertain PIL in accordance to rule and roaster. Thus, at the face of record it is for the court to decide whether the nature of writ petition has been changed to public interest litigation and the matters may be relegated to PIL bench. Hon'ble Supreme Court had not held that while deciding the private interest public interest cannot be looked into. 37-	The law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Guruvayoor Devaswom Managing Committee and another and Ashok Lanka (supra) and earlier full bench of this Court in the case of I.C.I.CI. Bank Ltd. Allahabad and others and Ashok Lanka (supra) has not been considered. In view of discussion made here-in-above, there appears to be no good ground to treat the present writ petition as PIL as it relates to the continuance of service under the NRHM Scheme. While deciding the issue, the Court is not precluded to look into the public interest for the end of justice. Learned Chief Standing Counsel could not take into account earlier judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court and other full bench while advancing the argument. Apart from above, the judgment of Guruvayoor Devaswom Managing Committee and another (supra) has been decided by a Bench consisting of Hon'ble Three Judges of Supreme Court which has been followed in the case of Ashok Lanka (supra) by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Accordingly, submission of learned Chief Standing Counsel does not seem to be sustainable and the nature of writ petition is not substantially changed and the dominant purpose is to maintain the petitioners' continuity in service and the Court is not precluded to look into public interest. The judgment relied upon by the learned Chief Standing Counsel i.e. the case of Neeraj Chaubey (supra) has been delivered in a Bench of of Hon'ble two judges, hence keeping in view the principle of stare decisis, larger bench judgment shall have binding effect, though as observed (supra) the case of Neeraj Chaubey (supra) also does not extend any help as the Hon'ble Supreme Court had left it for the Bench to exercise option to convert the writ petition into public interest litigation and then direct the Registry to place it before the Bench dealing with PIL matters. 38-	 Public Interest Litigation shall be those litigation where private dispute is not involved and the petitioner approach the Court under writ jurisdiction exclusively in Public Interest Litigation, but in case a petition is filed to resolve private dispute, then while deciding the private dispute, Courts are not precluded to take into account the ground realities keeping in view the Public Interest Litigation. NRHM SCHEME
 
39-	Before proceeding to decide the issue with regard to petitioners' continuity in service, it shall be appropriate to deal with NRHM scheme and Operational Guidelines updated as on 13.5.2011 filed with the rejoinder affidavit in Writ Petition No. 769 (S/B) of 2011. The preamble of NRHM scheme provides that it is meant to develop and improve the quality of life of citizen and to adopt a synergistic approach by relating health to determinants of good health viz. segments of nutrition, sanitation, hygiene and safe drinking water. It also aims at main- streaming the Indian systems of medicine to facilitate health care. The goal of the Mission is to improve the availability of any access to quality health care by people, especially for those residing in rural areas, the poor, women and children. It further reveals that public health expenditure in India has declined from 1.3% of GDP in 1990 to .9% of GDP in 1999. The Union Budgetary allocation from health is 1.3% while the State' Budgetary allocation is 5.5%. The Curative services favour the non-poor: for every Rs. 1 spent on the poorest 30% population, Rs. 3 is spent on the richest quintile. Data also provides that 40% of hospitalized Indians borrow heavily or sell assets to cover expenses and over 25% of hospitalized Indians fall below poverty line because of hospital expenses. The NRHM scheme seeks to provide effective healthcare to rural population throughout the country with special focus on 18 states, which have week public health indicators and/or weak infrastructure. The National Rural Health Mission-Vision, Goal and strategies seems to revolutionary. It also defines the role of State Government of Main-streaming Ayush doctors. The Mission (2005-2012) contains broader details and reasons which is necessitated for the Union Government to enforce the Scheme throughout the country particularly in 18 Districts which includes Uttar Pradesh where health system and programmes are not upto the mark. Relevant headings of the scheme are as under:- 40-	 The NRHM scheme launched by Union of India has been made operational through guidelines called operational guidelines which has been made upto date i.e. upto 13.5.2011 by the Department of Ayush, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India. It shall be appropriate to re-produce from the operational guidelines certain items i.e. Objective, Components, General Pattern of assistance, General Terms and Conditions, Processing and sanction of proposals, Evaluation of the Scheme and Modification of the Scheme:- Recurring Grant Rs. 0.30 lakhs per annum as lump Sum Contingency Fund. Rs. 3.00 lakhs per annum for procurement of drugs, Medicines, Diet and other consumables. Establishment of Ayush IPDs in Community Health Centres (CHCs)
 
 One time grant
 
 Upto Rs. 25.00 lakhs or undertaking addition/alteration of existing premises, furniture, fixtures, equipments, etc. subject to the condition that expenditure on addition/alteration of existing premises will not exceed 75 per cent of the total sanctioned amount. Recurring grant
 
 Rs. 0.50 lakh per annum as lump sum contingency fund. Rs. 5.00 lakhs per annum for procurement of drugs, Medicines, Diet and other consumables. Setting up of Ayush Wings in District Hospitals
 
 One time grant
 
 Up to Rs. 30.00 lakhs for undertaking addition/alteration of existing premises; fixtures, equipments, etc. subject to the condition that expenditure on addition/alteration of existing premises will not exceed 75 per cent of the total amount. Recurring grant
 
 Rs. 70 lakhs per annum as lump sum contingency fund. Rs. 2.50 lakhs per annum for procurement of drugs, Medicines, Diet and other consumables. Supply of Essential Drugs and Government Ayush Hospitals and 	Dispensaries
 
 Rs. 0.50 lakhs per annum for essential drugs 	(Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani). Rs. 0.25 lakhs per annum for essential drugs (Homoeopathy)
 
 Upgradation of Government Ayush hospitals (other than 	PHCs/CHCs/DHCs at the District/sub-District level. Upgradation of Government/Panchayat/Government aided 		 Ayush Dispensaries. Setting-up of Programme Management Units (PMUs)
 
 Setting Up of Health Management Information System (HMIS)
 
 Constitution of Rogi Kalyan Samitis: General Terms and Conditions (i) Under the scheme, financial assistance will be provided to the State/UT government for the specified components for promotion of Ayush health care facilities. (ii) Proposal seeking assistance under the scheme shall have to be submitted in duplicate in the prescribed format enclosed as Annexure 1 alongwith requisite information details. (iii) Admissible financial assistance under the scheme will be released to the State Health Society. (iv) Financial assistance under the scheme will be normally released in two instalments for establishment provided that the Screening committee may release the total amount in one instalment. (v) The grantee organization shall take necessary action to utilize the amount within the financial year provided that in the event of failure to utilize part or full of the amount during the year, details thereof shall be reported to the department for placing before the Screening Committee for decision. (vi) The grantee organization shall have to submit six monthly reports indicating physical progress of the work, attendance of the patients/visitors in the Ayush unit, receptivity 7 acceptability of the facilities of health care rendered from the unit for specific disease as well as financial position of expenditure alongwith relevant documents. (vii) The grantee organization shall have to take action for provision of required manpower (as indicated in Annexure IV) and space (as indicated in Annexure V) by availing support provided under the NRHM flexipool and under this scheme. (viii) The grantee organization shall have to use the fund sanctioned under this scheme to procure quality medicine from public sector/operative managed by central/State Government as per details indicated in Annexure VI. Evaluation of Scheme
 
	A mid-term review of the scheme is proposed to be done through an independent agency after two years of implementation of the scheme. The Provision has been made to constitute State level body under State Health Mission and other units like Governing Body and Executive Body. The Institutional set at State level has been provided in the scheme, which includes Governing body and Executive Body is as under:- 42-	During the course of hearing, we have directed the State authorities to bring on record the infrastructure available in the Medical & Health Services (Allopathic) and infrastructure under the Indian drugs system. Shri S.P. Ram, Director General, Medical & Health Services has brought on record human resources available in the State of U.P. The total vacant post in the Medical & Health Department, State of U.P. is given in the chart which is as under:- It is unfortunate that the PIP has not been revised either by the executive committee or a committee authorised under the operational guideline that too without looking into the available medical strength and vacant posts, because of which public is suffering seriously to deal with health problem. 43-	In the year 2010-2011 in the State of U.P. 24.99% fund allocated for the medicines were not utilized as is evident from the chart. Relevant portion of the chart is re-produced as under:- The Governing Body is the highest body of NRHM scheme. The Executive Body seems to a body, which has been empowered to take a decision to regulate the working of scheme. Under the operational guideline, the Executive Body has got ten members, out of which five are officer bearers and while calling the meeting of executive body, there must be some agenda which seems to be lacking. Out of ten members, five are office bearer, whereas decision to revise PIP has been taken by three individual members. Thus, at the face of record, the PIP has not been revised by the body authorized under the scheme. Under the operational guideline, the processing and sanction of proposal is to be done by eight members body which is as under:- In view of above, the PIP was not revised by duly constituted committee under the scheme, but by the officers in their individual capacity that too on unfounded ground (supra). Accordingly, the revision of PIP seems to be an incident of exceeding of jurisdiction in violation of Operational Guideline and NRHM scheme. 46-	From the description of available infrastructure referred to here-in-above and fund provided by the Government of India under the NRHM Scheme, it is obvious at the face of record that modified PIP suffers from substantial illegality and based on unfounded fact broadly for the following reasons:- 4-	Government of India has provided sufficient fund, but in the last six years, Rs. 2340.62 crores of rupees remained unutilized by the State Mission/Government of U.P. False and incorrect statement has been made by the State counsel to defend their action. 5-	Discontinuance of Ayush Male doctors and Pharmacists is based on unfounded facts, in violation of NRHM Scheme. 6-	State Mission cannot discharge its obligation in violation of operational guideline and the NRHM scheme, which seems to have been done. 47-	The Director General, Family Welfare had passed the order dated 15.4.2011 without jurisdiction. The order of circular could have been issued only by the Director of the Mission or whosoever officiates on the post in pursuance to decision taken by the executive committee or the governing body authorised under the Operational Guidelines. In spite of repeated query made by the Court, learned Chief Standing Counsel had not informed as to who was officiating the post of Mission Director. At the face of record, the State seems to conceal the material fact and not assisted the Court with clean hand. The revised PIP was sent on 19.4.2011 that too in pursuance to alleged direction dated 23.3.2011 issued by the Government of India, the letter dated 23.3.2011 is based on meeting held at Dehli on 7.3.2011. In pursuance to meeting dated 7.3.2011, the original PIP was prepared by the duly constituted committee under the scheme as apparent from the record and PIP was sent on 28.3.2011. 48-	Accordingly, even if the letter dated 23.3.2011 was received at a later stage, it does not make out a ground to send revised PIP that too when in pursuance to meeting held on 7.3.2011, after considering the necessary grounds and conditions original PIP was sent on 28.3.2011. 49-	A thing should be done in the manner provided by statute or regulatory provision and not otherwise vide Nazir Ahmed Vs. King Emperor , AIR 1936 PC 253; Deep Chand Versus State of Rajasthan, AIR 1961 SC 1527, Patna Improvement Trust Vs. Smt. Lakshmi Devi and others, AIR 1963 SC 1077; State of U.P. Vs. Singhara Singh and other, AIR 1964 SC 358; Barium Chemicals Ltd. Vs. Company Law Board AIR 1967 SC 295, (Para 34) Chandra Kishore Jha Vs. Mahavir Prasad and others, 1999 (8) SCC 266; Delhi Administration Vs. Gurdip Singh Uban and others , 2000 (7) SCC 296; Dhanajay Reddy Vs. State of Karnataka , AIR 2001 SC 1512, Commissioner Of Income Tax, Mumbai Vs. Anjum M.H. Ghaswala and others , 2002 (1) SCC 633; Prabha Shankar Dubey Vs. State of M.P. , AIR 2004 SC 486 and Ramphal Kundu Vs. Kamal Sharma, AIR 2004 SC 1657, Taylor Vs. Taylor, (1876) 1 Ch.D. 426; Nika Ram Vs. State of Himachal Pradesh , AIR 1972 SC 2077; Ramchandra Keshav Adke Vs. Govind Joti Chavare and others , AIR 1975 SC 915; Chettiam Veettil Ammad and another Vs. Taluk Land Board and others , AIR 1979 SC 1573; State of Bihar and others Vs. J.A.C. Saldanna and others , AIR 1980 SC 326, A.K.Roy and another Vs. State of Punjab and others; AIR 1986 SC 2160; State of Mizoram VS. Biakchhawna , 1995 (1) SCC 156. In the present case, the revised PIP was prepared neither by the governing body nor executive body or any other committee authorized under the Operational guideline. Hence, in view of settled proposition of law, it seems to suffer from substantial illegality. Subject to aforesaid discussion and finding, the State Mission at district level has to discharge its obligation in terms of NRHM scheme and Operational guideline. The State or its instrumentalities or the State Mission cannot travel beyond the procedure provided by Operational guideline in view of binding nature of the scheme, more so the Government of India is providing budget to run the scheme at Block, Tehsil and District level under NRHM scheme. Ayush doctors are to be appointed in addition to available infrastructure of the State. Therefore, the State does not seem to be justified in taking decision contrary to spirit of the NRHM scheme. 50-	In view of above, the revised PIP sent by the State seems to be based on unfounded fact and that too by the authorities who lacks jurisdiction under the scheme. It also suffers from non application of mind to the ground realities of the State. It creates reasonable doubt over the conduct of the authorities and the revised PIP suffers from extraneous reasons. WHETHER REVISED PIP IS OUTCOME OF POLICY DECISION OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT, HENCE NOT AMENABLE TO WRIT JURISDICTION
 
	Learned Chief Standing Counsel vehemently submits that being policy matter, the Court should loath to interfere with the revision of PIP. The argument advanced by the learned Chief Standing Counsel seems to be misconceived. The controversy in question does not relate to policy decision of the State Government but it relates to implementation of Rural Health Mission in the State of U.P. where people are facing acute problem for the lack of health facility as noted by the Government of India in the scheme (supra). The State is not entitled to move on its own way on account of agreement entered into between the State and the Government of India. It is obligatory on the part of State to enforce NRHM scheme in its letter and spirit keeping in view the operational guidelines. The State cannot take any policy decision beyond the scheme. Otherwise, at no stage either orally or through counter affidavit. Learned Chief Standing Counsel or the other State counsels had invited attention of the Court to any material on record with regard to policy decision of the State not to enforce NRHM scheme or not to make appointment of Male Ayush doctor, as a matter of policy, rather defence taken by the State is that the revised PIP was sent by the State Government to cut short the budget or in the absence of medicine provided by the Government of India. The shifting of stand by the State Government itself gives reasonable doubt over the bona fides. However, decision of the State Government to implement NRHM scheme or the consequential appointment thereon must be within the framework of NRHM scheme and its operational guideline (supra). 51-	The right of the petitioner cannot be thrown away or writ petition may be dismissed on mere submission that it is a policy decision that too without placing any material on record. Otherwise also, it is well settled law that in case policy decision of the State Government is capricious, malicious and highly arbitrary affecting the fundamental right of the citizen, this Court may interfere under judicial review. It is further settled law that all administrative decisions of the State should be just, fair and proper and subject to judicial review vide 2011 ( 1) SCC 640 Bajaj Hindustan Ltd. vs. Sir Shadi Lal Enterprises Ltd , (2011) 3 SCC 193 Shree Sidhbali Steels Ltd. vs. State of U.P., (2005) 5 SCC 181 State of NCT of Delhi vs. Sanjeev and Bittoo, (2009) 9 SCC 610 Babubhai Jamnadas Patel vs. State of Gujrat and others, ( 2008) 3 SCC 484 Moni Shanker vs. Union of India and AIR 1986 SC 81 Dwarika Nath vs. Income Tax Officer. 52-	Reliance placed by the learned Chief Standing Counsel in the cases reported in (2007) 4 SCC 737 Directorate of Film Festivals vs. Gaurav Ashwin Jain, 2011 ( 2) SCC 575 Transport & Dock Workers Union vs. Mumbai Port Trust , 2011 ( 1) SCC 640 Bajaj Hindustan Ltd. vs. Sir Shadi Lal Enterprises Ltd. seems to be unfounded. In the case of Gaurav Ashwin (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that it is not for the Court to examine the correctness, suitability and appropriateness of a policy nor the courts are advisor to the executive on matters of policy which the executive is entitled to formulate. 53-	In the present case, the case at hand does not relate to formulation of any policy. The policy has already been framed by the Government of India in the form of NRHM scheme and operational guidelines. State is only to implement the scheme. Having agreement between the State and the Central Government, it is not open for the State to take a decision in violation of NRHM scheme and the Operational guideline. In the case of Transport & Dock Workers Union (supra), their Lordships held that the Government has right to take policy decision with some band in its own choice and court should not interfere in a policy matter or executive decision. 54-	As observed (supra), here it is not a case where the State has to formulate its own policy but the question relates to implementation of NRHM scheme under the operational guideline which can be done only by the restrictive condition or bodies constituted under the operational guideline. State has got no right to discharge its obligation whimsically, arbitrarily in its own way in violation of operational guideline or NRHM scheme and it may be subject to judicial review. Things would have been different in case some independent policy would have been framed by the State for its citizens under its own guidelines and procedure prescribed for the purpose in public interest but it is not the case here. Hence, this judgment also does not cover the present controversy. In the case of Bajaj Hindustan Ltd. (supra), Hon'ble Supreme Court itself ruled that though ordinarily in administrative action, Court should not interfere but it does not mean that the judiciary should never interfere. The interference should be within narrow limits i.e. when there is violation of statute or constitutional provision or there is arbitrariness in the Wednesbury sense. 55-	Needless to say, the controversy in question falls in latter part of the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court where the petitioners have approached the Court with the grievance that the Provision contained in NRHM scheme and the Operational guideline (supra) have been violated and they have been treated arbitrarily with regard to employment and discharge of obligation under the scheme that too by the competent person. RIGHT TO PRACTICE OF AYUSH DOCTORS
 
	It has been vehemently argued by the learned Chief Standing Counsel that the Ayush doctors have no right to practice in the Allopathic field. Relying upon the case reported in (1998) 7 Supreme Court Cases 579 Dr. Mukhtiar Chand and others vs. State of Punjab and others, the argument advanced by the learned Chief Standing Counsel again seems to be misconceived. From the very beginning of the argument, Shri Sandeep Dixit and Amrendra Nath Tripathi had emphatically submitted that neither they pleaded nor they intend to advance any argument claiming right to practice in Allopathic side. They are claiming the rights flowing from NRHM scheme and Operational guideline. Accordingly, submission of learned Chief Standing Counsel does not call for any finding on the right to practice on Allopathic side. GENDER DISCRIMINATION
 
56-	Other submission of learned Chief Standing Counsel is that by depriving Ayush Male doctors to seek appointment, State has not caused any gender discrimination. Again it has been submitted by the petitioners' counsel that the petitioners are claiming their right under the NRHM Scheme and Operational Guideline and its implementation. Hence, no finding is required with regard to gender discrimination since it is not the case set up by the petitioners. CONSTITUTIONAL LIABILITY OF STATE AND CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
 
	Apart from food, clothe and shelter, the most important thing which the public required, is the health and education. Now it is settled law that right to livelihood, right to dignity of life, right to quality of life, right to life etc. are the fundamental rights protected by Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The State and the Union of India both have responsibility to care and rejuvenate the health system in their own field. Schedule VII of the Constitution deals with respective field for which Government of India and the State Government should exercise their power in public interest. Under the Directive Principles contained in Part IV of the Constitution, Article 47 provides that it is the duty of State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living and to improve public health. For convenience, Article 47 of the Constitution is re-produced as under:- Entry VI of list II of the Constitution (State subject) is re-produced as under:- List III of the Constitution is the current list with regard to subjects contained therein. The State and the Central Government both will have jurisdiction to discharge their obligation in public interest. Under List III of the Schedule 7 Entries 8, 16, 26, 28 and 29 contains subjects broadly related to hygienic condition and public health. For convenience, these are re-produced as under:- Provided that nothing in this clause shall be taken as restricting the power of Parliament to declare highways or waterways to be national highways or national waterways or the power of the Union with respect to the highways or waterways so declared or the power of the Union to construct and maintain means of communication as part of its functions with respect to naval, military and air force works. (3) The Executive power of the Union shall also extend to the giving of directions to a State as to the measures to be taken for the protection of the railways within the State. (4)	Where in carrying out any direction given to a State under clause (2) as to the construction or maintenance of any means of communication or under clause (3) as to the measures to be taken for the protection of any railway, costs have been incurred in excess of those which would have been incurred in the discharge of the normal duties of the State if such direction had not been given, there shall be paid by the Government of India to the State such sum as may be agreed, or, in default of agreement, as may be determined by an arbitrator appointed by the Chief Justice of India, in respect of the extra costs so incurred by the State." 59-	 In view of above, since the NRHM scheme and operational guidelines are broadly also covered by the subjects contained in List III of Schedule 7, the State Government does not possess jurisdiction to violate the terms and conditions contained in the NRHM scheme and its Operational guidelines. 60-	The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case reported in (1981) 1 SCC 246 Akhil Bhartiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh and others vs. State of U.P. and another, while considering the directive principle of State and fundamental right held as under:- 61-	In (1996) 4 SCC 37, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that it can not be ignored that it is the constitutional obligation of the State to provide adequate medical services to the people which includes free legal aid to the poor class and merely on the ground of financial constraints, State cannot deprive the citizen from their rights. In ( 1987) 2 SCC 165 Vincent Panikurlangara vs. Union of India , their lordships held as under:- While endorsing what has been said above, we would refer to Article 47 in Part IV of the Constitution. That Article provides:-- This Article has laid stress on improvement of public health and prohibition of drugs injurious to health as one of the primary duties of the State. In Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karmachari Sangh v. Union of India , [1981] 1 SCC 246 this Court has pointed out that, "the Fundamental Rights are intended to foster the ideal of a political democracy and to prevent the establishment of authoritarian rule but they are of no value unless they can be enforced by resort to courts. So they are made justifiable. However, it is also evident that notwithstanding their great importance, the Directive Principles cannot in the very nature of things be enforced in a Court of Law, but it does not mean that Directive Principles are	less important than Fundamental Rights or that they are not binding on the various organs of the State. 62-	In view of above, though the health subject falls within the domain of the State Government but in case Government of India proceeds in public interest which includes health related subjects given in List III Schedule 7 of the Constitution under NRHM scheme, then the State or its instrumentality have to follow the scheme and enforce the same in its letter and spirit being substantially funded by the Government of India. The State and its instrumentality have no right to move in their own way that too in violation of scheme and its operational guidelines. Any decision or policy taken by the State Government in contravention of NRHM scheme and its operational guidelines shall not be sustainable and may be set aside under judicial review by the Court while exercising power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Accordingly, submission of learned counsel for the petitioners carries weight. CONTRACTUAL ASSIGNMENT AND THE SCHEME
 
63-	Learned Chief Standing Counsel vehemently argued that being contractual assignment, it is not open for the Court to interfere with the impugned order. Reliance has been placed on the case reported in (2006) 4 Supreme Court Cases 1 Secretary State of Karnataka and others vs. Umadevi (3) and others. In this case, their Lordships of Supreme Court held that if it is an contractual appointment, the appointment comes to an end at the end of contract. The temporary employee could not claim to be made permanent on the expiry of his term of appointment. Relevant portion of the judgment of Umadevi 's case is reproduced as under:- 64-	A plain reading of Hon'ble Supreme Court judgment reveals that the contractual appointment shall continue upto the end of scheme subject to terms and conditions of the scheme. Now it is settled law that the appointment under the scheme ordinarily is liable to continue till the end of scheme. Contractual appointments done in pursuance to scheme framed by the Government are liable to continue till end of scheme. The Government or its authority have got no right to act arbitrarily in violation of scheme. It shall be obligatory for the Government to act fairly with due application of mind under the scheme vide (2009) 16 SCC 385 Raji Kumar and others vs. Director of Health Services, Kerala and others, (2009) 6 SCC 611 Mohd. Abdul Kadir and another vs. Director General of Police Assam and others, (2008) 5 SCC 1 P. Venugopal vs. Union of India, AIR 2005 SC 4413 Center for Public Interest Litigation vs. Union of India , (2010) 28 LCD 1248 Dhirendra Kumar Rai vs. State of U.P. & others and ( 2008) 3 SCC 484 Moni Shanker vs. Union of India . 65-	In the case of Mohd. Abdul Kadir (supra) the law on the question with regard to contractual appointment has been sum up by the Hon'ble Supreme Court after considering the constitution bench judgment of Uma Devi (supra). For convenience paras 15, 16, 17 and 18 of the judgment of Abdul Kadir's case (supra) are reproduced as under:- 66-	Thus, it is evident that the right of the petitioners co-relates not only with the appointment letter but also with the terms and conditions given in the NRHM scheme. Subject to satisfactory discharge of duty, they have right to continue in service. 67-	An argument is also advanced by some of the petitioners' counsel that State and the Mission authorities are not appointing Male Ayush doctors for extraneous reasons to misappropriate funds by making fake appointment but no material has been placed on record. However, such possibility may be removed by making the system more transparent. Every appointment and financial transaction under the NRHM scheme be placed on website with all particulars, name, address, post/designation, salary, tenure of appointment etc. Salary to all the employees whether contractual or regular under NRHM scheme must be paid and transferred to the Bank Account of the respective employee. Government of India is directed to make necessary amendment in the NRHM scheme and its Operational Guideline forthwith and ensure its compliance by making the governance of NRHM scheme transparent. FINDINGS
 
68-	In view of above, to sum up:- From the record produced before the Court, it is evident that the meeting was attended by Neeta Chaudhari, President, Executive Body NRHM scheme and Anoop Mishra, Chief Secretary, Govt. of U.P. and not by all the members or majority of the members constituting the executive body. No agenda was circulated for the meeting. Thus, the entire proceeding dated 15.4.2011 at the face of record vitiates since the decision was not taken by the duly constituted committee under the Operational guidelines.	Otherwise also, the Note Sheet dated 15.4.2011(supra) does not transpire that the decision was taken not to appoint Male Ayush doctors and pharmacists, rather from the note sheet it is evident that the budget was confined to Rs. 3312.96 Crores and accordingly the entire set up was revised which includes appointment of Male Ayush doctors and pharmacists. From the note sheet, it is obvious that even the Government of India has not directed to deprive the State of U.P. from Male Ayush doctors and pharmacists. Thus, the State has filed false affidavit contrary to its own record while defending its action and State counsels have also not taken note of the material on record while defending the State action. Though on 31.5.2011, statement was made by learned Chief Standing Counsel to inform the Court, as to who was holding the post of Mission Director but till delivery of judgment, Court has not been informed as to who was the In-charge Mission Director when the decision to revise the PIP was taken, though compilation of case law and written argument was filed. (iv)	The Government of India owes responsibility and has right to exercise power since part of the aim and object of the NRHM scheme is also covered under the List III Schedule VII of the Constitution. The State cannot take any decision contrary to NRHM scheme and its Operational guidelines. It is also incorrect on the part of the State Government to say that fund is not available, more so when Rs. 2340.62 crores was unutilized upto 2010-2011 by the State Mission and the State authorities that too when the State is suffering from acute health problem and thousands of vacancies have not been filled up in all three branch i.e. Allopathy, Homeopathy and Ayurved (supra). Accordingly, State is not justified in not implementing the scheme
 

 
 in the State of U.P. in its letter and spirit when citizens' fundamental right of life, quality of life and hygienic condition etc. protected by Article 21 of the Constitution is in distress. In view of Mohd. Abdul Kadir's case (supra), Male and Female Ayush doctors and pharmacists appointed under the scheme, are entitled to continue in terms of NRHM scheme and Operational guideline subject to finance provided by the Government of India till the scheme continues and subject to satisfactory discharge of duty. (v)	The revised PIP was prepared on unfounded ground by the persons who were not authorised under the scheme or the operational guidelines. In the State of U.P. thousands of posts are lying vacant in all three medical faculties (supra) which suffers from substantial medical deficiency . The incumbents, who were appointed under original PIP are entitled to continue under NRHM scheme subject to approval and availability of fund granted by Union of India. 69-	There appears to be crack in the system of governance. The judiciary is not powerless to give a dent but first bureaucracy should be cautioned to correct themselves. Shifting of stand, filing of affidavit on unfounded ground and against the record, not coming forward with correct facts before the Court (supra) are all such instances which creates reasonable doubt with regard to bona fides on the part of government while assisting the Court. We have earlier noticed that how the State authorities have acted in misappropriating the fund and transporting the food grains outside the State in food scam case reported in 2010 ADJ 504 Vishwanath Chaturvedi Vs. Union Of India Through its Secy. Rural Dev. & Ors. A division bench, of which one of us was member (Hon'ble Devi Prasad Singh, J) while deciding Writ Petition No. 9416 (MB) of 2010 vide judgment and order dated 29.4.2011 ( Mohd. Kausar Jah vs. Union of India and others ) taken note of a report in one another writ petition (para 20) with regard to unauthorised and unsystematic mining activities in the State of U.P. causing damage to river course and environment hazards. Situation of governance is grim. Now in the present case effort was made not to apprise the Court with correct facts. Present scenario may be expressed from Paradise Lost by John Milton, to quote:- 70-	Dr. B. R. Ambedkar in Constituent Assembly canvassed for the permanent bureaucracy at par with Britain over and above the spoiled system sometimes prevailing in United States of America since he was impressed by the opinion given by his private secretary while in charge of PWD department against installation of statute contrary to wishes of Governor General. Dr. Ambedkar noted that function of the government was to lay down policy and not to interfere and to make any discrimination or use the power for glorification. (Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar's writes and speeches Volume 17 Part III Page 479-480). However, the wishes of chief architect of Indian Constitution seems to be eroding very fast. 71-	Bureaucracy is loosing people's faith and it seems to be at lowest eb. Even courts are not spared for extraneous reasons. Whether it is the beginning of 'break up' of constitutional machinery in the State of U.P.? Chief Secretary, Government of U.P. is directed to look into the matter and ensure that the statement given before the Court are correct and records are produced as required with correct information in dispensation of justice, otherwise there shall be no option except to proceed against erring officers in accordance with law. Lord Alfred Tennyson has rightly said, to quote:- (Idylls of the King 'Merlin and Vivien' (1959)
 
72-	There appears to be no option except to evolve corrective measures or new principles of law to set the things right. The higher judiciary cannot shirk its responsibilities to ensure fairness in governance in due course of time. Jo Grimond while giving speech on 14 September, 1963 in Liberal Party Annual Assembly said, to quote:- 73-	In view of above, the writ petitions deserve to be and are allowed. A writ in the nature of certiorari is issued quashing the order dated 15.4.2011 issued by Director General, Family Welfare and all other orders and circular issued by the State of U.P. or the State Mission in pursuance to revised PIP. Subject to approval of Government of India and fund made available, all incumbents which includes Male and Female Ayush doctors and pharmacists shall be entitled to continue in service till the scheme continues. However, it shall be open to the State and the Mission to revise PIP strictly in accordance to NRHM scheme and Operational Guidelines in case exigencies of services required and pass fresh order. A writ in the nature of mandamus is issued directing the State Government and the Mission authorities to display each and every appointment made under the NRHM scheme in the State of U.P. on a website, indicating therein the name, address, post or designation, qualification, salary and tenure of appointment of the employee/person concerned, forthwith. Subject to observations and the directions as above, the writ petitions are allowed accordingly. No cost. Let a copy of this judgment be sent to the Chief Secretary, Government of U.P. to adopt corrective measures and streamline the system of governance keeping in view the observations made and findings recorded in the body of judgment.