(per V.Ramasubramanian, J.) 

 The petitioners in all these writ petitions seek the issue of writs
of mandamus to declare the action of the respondents in allowing the
registration of multiple FIRs and conducting an investigation into all of
them, in relation to the same set of facts, as unconstitutional. They
also pray as a consequence, a direction to the respondents to tag all
subsequently registered FIRs to the first FIR and also to set aside all
the Prisoner Transit warrants issued against them. 2. While the petitioners in W.P.No.29374 of 2016 are the
Directors and Managing Director of a company by name Akshaya 
Gold Farms and Villas India Limited, the petitioners in other 5 writ
petitions are: (1) the Managing Director; (2) the sons of the Nominee
Directors; (3) a renewable nominated Director, who was later
appointed as a Whole Time Director, (4) the sons of the Nominated
Directors; and (5) a renewable nominated Director subsequently
appointed as Whole Time Director for 5 years in a company by name 
Agri Gold Farms Estates India Private Limited. 3. Since the factual details of the case are not necessary for
determining the rights of the petitioners to seek the reliefs that they
have prayed for and also since the reliefs sought by the petitioners are
pitched on the statutory prescriptions contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure and the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 226 of the Constitution, it is sufficient for us to indicate in a
tabular column the reliefs sought by the petitioners in these writ
petitions. W.P.No. 
Reliefs sought
29374/2016 
To issue Writ of mandamus declaring the action of
respondents in registering different crimes in different
stations basing on the same and identical complaints lodged
at different point of times before and after registration of FIR
No.227/2013 dated 31-12-2013 of II Town Police Station,
Adoni, Kurnool District against the petitioners/accused
herein on similar complaints with similar set of facts is
arbitrary, illegal and even against to the fundamental
principles of criminal justice and direct the respondents to
treat all other complaints and investigations therein in
subsequent crimes after registration of FIR No.227/2013
only as statements in FIR No.227/2013 of II Town PS, Adoni,
Kurnool District, AP and consequently tag all the other
crimes in FIR No.211/2013 of IV Town PS, Kurnool, AP, FIR 
No.138/2013 of II Town PS, Adoni, Kurnool District, AP, FIR
No.82/2013 of Dhone PS, Kurnool District, AP, FIR
No.299/2013 of Pattabhipuram PS, Guntur Town, AP, FIR 
No.61/2013 of I Town PS, Tenali, Guntur District, AP, FIR
No.62/2013 of I Town PS, Tenali, Guntur District, AP, FIR
No.63/2013 of I Town PS, Tenali, Guntur District, AP, FIR
No.64/2013 of I Town PS, Tenali, Guntur District, AP, FIR
No.182/2013 of Chilakaluripeta PS, Guntur District, AP, FIR
No.82/2013 of Peddatumbalam PS, Kurnool District, AP, FIR 
No.149/2014 of Koilakuntla PS, Kurnool District, AP, FIR
No.57/2013 of Koilakuntla PS, Kurnool District, AP and
others that were registered in the State of Telangana to FIR
No.227/2013 of II Town PS, Adoni, Kurnool District, AP and
also to set aside all the Prisoner Transit Warrants issued
against the petitioners/accused in the above crimes and
other crimes in the interest of equity and justice. 10185/2017 

To issue Writ of mandamus declaring the action of R.2 to R.8
in conducting investigation into multiple FIRs in relation to
same set of facts as illegal, arbitrary and violative of Articles
14 , 19 , 20 , 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India and the
provisions of the A.P. Protection of the Depositors and
Finance Establishment Act, 1999 and consequently direct 
R.1 to transfer the crimes i.e., (a) FIR No.378/2014, dt.24-
12-2014 of Nellore III Town PS, filed by R.9, (b) FIR
No.7/2015, dt.05-01-2015 of Rajahmundry II Town PS, 
Rajahmundry Urban District filed by R.10, (c) FIR
No.4/2015, dt.06-01-2015 of Nandyala I Town PS, Kurnool,
filed by R.11, (d) FIR No.6/2015, dt.06-01-2015 of II Town PS,
Madanapalle, Chittoor District filed by R.12, (e) FIR
No.31/2015, dt.21-02-2015 of Chinna Chowk PS, Kadapa 
District, filed by R.13, (f) FIR No.112/2015, dt.28-4-2015 of
Addanki PS, Prakasam District filed by R.14 to the leading
FIR No.3/2015 of Pedapadu PS of West Godavari District, in
which the entire records/properties of the petitioners seized
and produced before the Special Court constituted under
the provisions of A.P. Protection of Depositors and Finance
Establishment Act, 1999 as a single case and treat all other
existing FIRs touching the subject matters covered under
FIR No.3/2015, as the statements recorded u/S.161 CrPC in 
the course of the investigation of merged FIRs. 11201/2017 
To issue Writ of mandamus declaring the action of
respondents in registering the FIR, investigation in Crime
No.3/2015 u/Secs.120B and 420 IPC, Sec.45 of RBI Act and Sec.3 r/w Sec.4 of PCMCS Act, and Sec.5 of APPDEFF Act, 
and investigating by R.2 as illegal, arbitrary, influenced by
extraneous considerations, prima facie investigated into the
alleged offence registered the crime, and are violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India apart from
violative of well-settled principles of natural justice. 11245/2017 
To issue Writ of mandamus, declaring the action of
respondents in registering the FIR and investigation in
Crime No.3/2015 of Pedapadu PS of West Godavari District, 
AP, u/Secs.120B and 420 IPC, Sec.45 of RBI Act, and Sec.3 r/w Sec.4 of PCMCS Act, and Sec.5 of APPDEFF Act, on 02- 
01-2015, as illegal, arbitrary, influenced by extraneous
considerations, prima facie investigated into the alleged
offence registered the crime, violative of Articles 14 and 21 of
the Constitution of India apart from violative of well-settled
principles of natural justice, quash the same. 12943/2017 
To issue Writ of mandamus, declaring the action of
respondents in registering the crime by FIR, and
investigation in Crime No.31/2015 of Chinna Chouk PS,
dt.21-02-2015 of Kadapa, Kadapa District of AP and
investigating by R.2 as illegal, arbitrary, influenced by
extraneous considerations, prima facie investigated into the
alleged offence registered the crime, and are violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India apart from
violative of well-settled principles of natural justice. 13005/2017 
To issue Writ of mandamus, declaring the action of
respondents in registering the FIR and investigation in
Crime No.31/2015 of China Chouk U/G Kadapa PS, Kadapa 
District of AP, u/ Secs.420 , 508 and 197 IPC, u/S.156(3) of
CrPC, and Sec.5 of APPDEFF Act, on 21-02-2015, now under 
the investigation is with CBCID Regional Office, Thirupathi,
R.2 herein as illegal, arbitrary, influenced by extraneous
considerations, prima facie investigated into the alleged
offence registered the crime, violative of Articles 14 and 21 of
the Constitution of India apart from violative of well-settled
principles of natural justice, quash the same. 4. The sum and substance of the grievance of the petitioners is
that FIRs are registered by different police in different parts of several
States alleging non-repayment of the deposits collected by the
company of which they were the Directors or the Nominee Directors or
sons of the Nominated Directors. As a consequence, Prisoner Transit
warrants are issued by various courts making the petitioners run
around, without any redemption, seriously infringing their fundamental
rights. 5. We have heard Mr. B. Adinarayana Rao, learned senior 
counsel, Mr. Dhananjay, learned counsel and Mr. P.S. Nagarajan,
learned counsel appearing for the petitioners. The learned Special
Government Pleader for Home for the State of Andhra Pradesh takes 
notice. Arguments of the Counsel for the petitioners 6. The argument in entirety of Mr. B. Adinarayana Rao, learned
Senior Counsel as well as Mr. Dhananjaya and Mr. P.S. Nagarajan, 
learned Counsel appearing for the writ petitioners is that in law, there
can be only one first information under Section 154 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure and all information that flows thereafter, could only
be treated as material in furtherance of the investigation. Again and
again all the learned counsel relied only upon 2 decisions, one of the
Supreme court in T. T. Antony v. State of Kerala {2001 (6) SCC 350}
and another of this Court in Akbaruddin Owaisi v. State of Andhra
Pradesh {2013 (6) ALT 101} in support of their contention that the
registration of more than one FIR, resulting in the pre-trial detention of
the accused perennially despite the grant of bail, tantamounted to a
gross violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and that therefore, the statements made by persons
other than the first informant should be recorded only under Section
162 of the Code. 7. In order to test the correctness of the above contentions, it
may be necessary to look into the evolution of the law on the point.
The evolution of the Law 8. In one of the earliest cases where the validity of the
registration of a second FIR came up for consideration was in Ram
Lal Narang v. State . In that case a First Information Report
registered for offences under Sections 120B read with Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code led to a charge sheet, but the State
ultimately withdrew the prosecution by filing an application through the
Public Prosecutor. The case related to two Sand Stone Pillars of great
antiquity, which were in the custody of the Court but allowed to be
taken away by the culprits. After the withdrawal of the prosecution,
these Sand Stone Pillars were traced in a warehouse in London and
hence a fresh FIR was registered. It is in that context that the
registration of the second FIR, especially after the prosecution
pursuant to the first FIR was withdrawn after the framing of the
charges, came up for consideration before the Supreme Court. The
Supreme Court upheld the validity of the second FIR on the ground
that the second FIR related to a larger conspiracy and that the
conspiracies, which were the subject matter of both FIRs cannot be
said to be identical though the conspiracy forming the subject matter
of the first case, may be part of the conspiracy forming the subject
matter of the second case. 9. In the next case reported in M. Krishna v. State of
Karnataka , what was under challenge before the Supreme Court was 
a second prosecution for the offences under Section 13(1) (e) r/w Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act against a Class-I
Officer of the Karnataka Administrative Services on the ground that he
amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. 
While the check period in respect of the first FIR was 01.08.1978 to
24.08.1989, the check period relating to the second prosecution was
from 01.08.1978 to 25.07.1995. While rejecting the contention that the
second prosecution was unlawful, the Supreme Court observed in the
last paragraph of the judgment that there is no provision in the Code
which debars the filing of a second FIR and an investigation into the
alleged offences merely because for an earlier period there was a
First Information Report which was duly investigated and culminated
in the conclusion of the proceedings. The Court pointed out that the
mere overlapping of the periods cannot be a ground for invalidating
the second FIR. 10. In V.K. Sharma v. Union of India a person who was cited
as an accused in a large number of cases in nine States, for alleged
offences under Sections 406 , 409 , 420 and 120B IPC filed a Writ
Petition under Article 32 claiming that due to the production warrants
issued by various Courts from different States, the Jail authorities
were unable to release him despite his securing bail from all Courts.
The reliefs sought in the Writ Petition under Article 32 were (1) to
transfer all FIRs and all cases in relation thereto pending before
different Courts to one particular Court and (2) to consolidate all those
cases and have them investigated, inquired into and tried together. 11. By a brief order disposing of the writ petition, the Supreme
Court refused to consolidate and bring all cases before one Court on
the ground that it would impose unwarranted and unnecessary 
hardship on the witnesses and investigating agency. However, the
Supreme Court directed the release of the Writ Petitioner by the
arresting officer himself, whenever he was sought to be arrested.
Since the Supreme Court did not go into the question of law, the Court
directed that the order should not be treated as a precedent. 12. In Mohan Baitha v. State of Bihar , the Supreme Court
was not concerned with the question of multiple FIRs, but concerned
only with the application of Section 220 of the Code, under which
offences more than one committed by the same persons could be tried 
at one trial, if they can be held to be in one series of acts so as to
form the same transaction. To put it simply the question was not as
to whether there can be more FIR than one but whether there can
be more trial than one. 13. In T.T. Antony v. State of Kerala , the Supreme Court was
concerned with appeals arising out of a judgment of the Division
Bench of the Kerala High Court, in and by which the High Court
directed a fresh investigation into the complaints that arose out of two
incidents that took place at two different places on the same day, but
with respect to the same cause. In the course of demonstrations held
by a political party against a Minister of the State, conducted at two
different places within the same city, a few people died in police firing
and more than hundred people suffered injuries. Two separate FIRs
were registered on the same day in the police stations within whose
jurisdiction the offences were committed. But subsequently, a
commission of inquiry appointed by the State Government submitted a 
report indicting the police officers and the Minister. The
recommendations of the commission of enquiry were accepted by the 
Government and a fresh FIR was registered against the Minister,
Deputy Superintendent of Police and Executive Magistrate. On an
interim report, 19 police officers and 14 constables were also
implicated in the fresh FIR. 14. Since there was a change of Government in the meantime,
the first two FIRs registered on the date of the incident were closed as
false and undetected. Therefore, writ petitions were filed for quashing
the third FIR filed on the basis of the report of the commission of
inquiry and also for fresh investigation by CBI. A Single judge directed
re-investigation by CBI, but the Division Bench modified the order by
quashing the third FIR as against one officer and directed fresh
investigation by a local officer instead of CBI. This judgment became
the subject matter of appeal before the Supreme Court. One of the
issues that arose for consideration before the Supreme Court was as
to whether the registration of a fresh case, pursuant to the
recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry, which is in the nature
of a second FIR was valid in terms of Section 154 of the Code and
could form the basis of a fresh investigation. This question, as framed
in para 15(i) of the report in T. T. Antony {2001 (6) SCC 181} flowed
out of the statement of fact in para 14 of the report that the FIR
registered pursuant to the recommendation of the Commission of
Inquiry was registered after three years of occurrence, when two FIRs
in that regard were already pending investigation. Interestingly the
Supreme Court referred to the FIR registered pursuant to the
recommendation of the Commission of Inquiry as a second FIR, 
throughout the judgment, despite the fact that two FIRs had already
been registered in two different police stations on the very date of
occurrence. Another interesting aspect is that the Supreme Court
was not concerned with the question as to whether two different
FIRs registered in two different police stations on the date of
occurrence were valid or not. This is why the Supreme Court
quashed only that FIR (actually the third in chronology but referred to
as the second throughout the judgment of the Supreme Court) that
was registered pursuant to the recommendation of the Commission of 
Inquiry. 15. For finding an answer to point (i) arising for determination in
the criminal appeals, the Supreme Court took note of the scheme of Sections 154 , 155 , 156 , 157 , 162 , 169 , 170 and 173 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure and held in para-20 of the report that the earliest
or the first information satisfies the requirements of Section 154 and
that therefore there can be no second FIR. As a consequence, the
Supreme Court held that there can be no fresh investigation on
receipt of every subsequent information in respect of the very
same cognizable offence or the same occurrence or incident
giving rise to one or more cognizable offences. The reason as to
why the Supreme Court came to the said conclusion in para-20 of the
report was that the officer-in-charge of police station, who has
entrusted with the duty to investigate a cognizable offence, has a duty
not merely to investigate the cognizable offence reported in the FIR
but also to investigate other connected offences found to have been
committed in the course of the same transaction or the same
occurrence. 16. The State placed heavy reliance before the Supreme Court
in T.T. Antony, upon an earlier judgment of the Court in Ram Lal
Narang v. State where the Supreme Court refused to quash a second 
FIR, registered after the first FIR led to the filing of the charge-sheet
but which was ultimately permitted to be withdrawn leading to the
discharge of the accused. This decision of the Supreme Court in Ram
Lal Narang was distinguished in T.T. Antony on the ground that the
gravamen of the charges in the two FIRs (first and second) were not
the same in truth and substance. Therefore, the Supreme Court held in
the last portion of para-21 of the report that if the gravamen of the
charges in the first and second FIRs, is in truth and substance the
same, the registering of the second FIR and making fresh
investigation and forwarding report under Section 173 Cr.P.C will
be irregular. 17. The main thrust of the argument before the Supreme Court
was that a balance had to be struck between the sweeping power of
investigation available to the police and the fundamental rights of
citizens guaranteed under the Constitution. Accepting the said
argument, the Supreme Court held in para-27 of the report as follows: In Narang case it was, however, observed that it would be appropriate to
conduct further investigation with the permission of the court. However, the
sweeping power of investigation with the permission of the court. However,
the sweeping power of investigation does not warrant subjecting a citizen
each time to fresh investigation by the police in respect of the same
incident, giving rise to one or more cognizable offences, consequent upon
filing of successive FIRs whether before or after filing the final report under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. It would clearly be beyond the purview of Sections
154 and 156 Cr.P.C., nay, a case of abuse of the statutory power of
investigation in a given case. In our view a case of fresh investigation
based on the second or successive FIRs, not being a counter-case, filed in
connection with the same or connected cognizable offence alleged to have
been committed in the course of the same transaction and in respect of
which pursuant to the first FIR either investigation is under way or final
report under Section 173(2) has been forwarded to the Magistrate, may be a
fit case for exercise of power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. or under Articles
226/227 of the Constitution. 18. A careful look at all the observations of the Supreme Court
in T.T. Antony would show that the bar to the registration of a second
FIR was read into the Code of Criminal Procedure , whenever the
second or subsequent information related to the same cognizable
offence or the same occurrence or same incident giving rise to
one or more cognizable offences. The emphasis laid by the
Supreme Court was on the sameness of the truth and substance of 
the gravamen of the charges. 19. As we have pointed out earlier, an important aspect to be
noted in the decision of the Supreme Court in T.T. Antony is that the
Supreme Court did not quash the two FIRs in Crime Nos.353 and 354 
of 1994 registered at two different places on the very date of the
occurrence, but quashed only the FIR filed after 3 years pursuant to
the recommendation of the commission of inquiry. Therefore, it follows
that the reasoning adopted by the Supreme Court was not applied to
the second FIR filed on the same date. 20. In Narinderjit Singh Sahni v. Union of India , a 3-member
Bench of the Supreme Court was concerned with a batch of writ
petitions filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India seeking bail
in the nature as prescribed under Section 438 of the Code. The
petitioners in Narinderjit Singh Sahni were inspired by the earlier
orders passed by the Supreme Court, one in V.K. Sharma v. Union of 
India (2000) 9 SCC 449 and another in P.K. Sharma dated 05-5-2000. Actually the petitioners in Narinderjit Singh Sahni sought the very
same reliefs as granted to the petitioners in V.K. Sharma which was
followed in another case P.K. Sharma vs. Union of India , but a Two
Member bench of the Supreme Court found it difficult to accept the
orders passed in V.K. Sharma and P.K. Sharma. Therefore, the Two 
Member bench referred the petitions in Narinderjit Singh Sahni to a
larger bench. The main thrust of the argument before the 3-member
bench in Narinderjit Singh Sahni was that the chase given to the very
same accused by different police for the same set of offences was an
infraction of Article 21. It is relevant to note at this stage that the
petitioners before the Supreme Court in Narinderjit Singh Sahni
included the Chairman and Managing Director of a group of
companies (about 40 companies) having 50 branches all over the
country, which accepted deposits from the public. When the
companies failed to repay the deposits and the cheques issued by
them bounced, criminal proceedings came to be initiated at various
places including Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chandigarh, Udaipur,
Gurhgam, Ghaziabad, Ludhiana, Dehradun and Ambala. 21. Interestingly, the arguments advanced by the learned
counsel for the petitioners in the batch of cases before us are nothing
but a repetition of the very same arguments advanced before the
Supreme Court in Narinderjit Singh Sahni. In brief, two contentions
were raised before the Supreme Court, namely, (a) that due to the
production warrants issued by various Courts in various States, a
situation had arisen whereby the accused can never be released, but
had to be shuttled from one place to another on a Bharat Darshan
(probably at the cost of the State) and (b) that when all the cases
registered against the accused are basically under Section 420 read
with Section 120B of the IPC, there cannot be several cases
jeopardising the fundamental rights of the accused. 22. Dealing with the alleged infraction of Article 21 , the
Supreme Court opined in para-54 of its judgment that a deprivation of
personal liberty in accordance with the procedure established by
law would not amount to an infraction of Article 21. In para-61 of
the judgment, the Supreme Court pointed out in Narinderjit Singh
Sahni that the proposition that an accused being involved in a
large number of criminal cases in different parts of the country, if
not able to be released from custody even on getting bail orders
in some cases would tantamount to a violation of the right under Article 21 cannot be accepted. 23. The Supreme Court went on to point out in para-61 that
it would be a misplaced sympathy of the Court on white-collared
accused persons whose acts of commission and omission had 
ruined a vast majority of poor citizens of the country. After
pointing this out, the Supreme Court recorded its disapproval of the
orders passed in V.K. Sharma and P.K. Sharma. 24. More importantly the Supreme Court dealt with the question
of consolidation, though not in so many words, in para-64 of the
judgment and held as follows: 25. Having said so in para-64 of the judgment, the Supreme
Court held in para-67 of the judgment in Narinderjit Singh Sahni that in
regard to the prayer for consolidation the petitioner would be at liberty
to approach the High Court in accordance with law. 26. In Kari Choudhary v. Most. Sitadevi , the mother-in-law of
a lady lodged a FIR claiming that a few persons from outside sneaked
into the bedroom of her daughter-in-law and murdered her. In the
course of investigation into the FIR so lodged, the police found that it
was the mother-in-law and her other daughters-in-law, who had
conspired to kill the victim. Therefore after sending a closure report in
respect of the FIR lodged by the mother-in-law, the police registered a
second FIR against the mother-in-law and others. The validity of the
second FIR was challenged and when the matter landed up before the 
Supreme Court, the Supreme Court observed as a general proposition 
that there cannot be two FIRs against the same accused in respect of
the same case. But the Court nevertheless pointed out in paragraph-
11 of the judgment that when there are rival versions in respect of the
same episode, they would normally take the shape of two different
FIRs and investigation can be carried on under both of them by the
same agency. 27. In State of Punjab v. Rajesh Syal another 3-member
bench of the Supreme Court was confronted with yet another case of
similar nature. In that case, a company by name Golden Forest (India)
Limited and its Directors faced prosecution in different Courts for
offences under Sections 406 , 420 , 468 , 471 and 120B of the IPC read
with Section 7(2) of the Punjab Reforms Act, 1972, on the allegation
that the company collected deposits from thousands of members of 
the public promising to repay the same, but failed to repay on the
maturity date. The Director of the Company filed 2 petitions under
Section 482 of the Code before the High Court, praying under one for
the dropping of the charges and praying in another for the trial of all
cases in one Court. The High Court followed the order passed by the
Supreme Court in V.K. Sharma and transferred all cases pending in
different Courts in the State of Punjab to the Court of a Special
Judicial Magistrate. It was this order of the High Court that was
challenged by the State of Punjab before the Supreme Court in State
of Punjab v. Rajesh Syal . While pointing out that the orders passed in
V.K. Sharma were not to be treated as a precedent, even as per its
own terms, the Supreme Court held in para-7 as follows: 28. Having said so in para-7, the Supreme Court probably
opened a small leverage in para-8 by making an observation that in that case the High Court did not invoke its jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C to transfer the cases to prevent the abuse of
the process of any Court or to secure the ends of justice. It must
be pointed out at this stage that the decision of the Two Member
Bench of the Supreme Court in T.T. Antony was not brought to the
notice of the Supreme Court either in Narinderjit Singh Sahni or in State of Punjab v. Rajesh Syal . 29. In Upkar Singh v. Ved Prakash , a three Member Bench of
the Supreme Court had to consider the correctness of the decision in
TT Antony, upon a reference made to it by a Two Member Bench. In 
Upkar Singh, there were two FIRs by rival groups, one group making
allegations against the other. What was argued before the Supreme
Court in Upkar Singh was that as per the decision in TT Antony, a
second FIR in the nature of a counter case is not registerable, once a
FIR is already registered on the complaint of one party. But the
Supreme Court pointed out in Upkar Singh that such a conclusion did
not flow out of the decision in TT Antony. Therefore in effect, the
Supreme Court was concerned in Upkar Singh only with the validity of
a counter complaint to a complaint. Upkar Singh was also not a case
of successive FIRs by different persons against the same accused. 30. In Rameshchandra Nandlal Parikh v. State of Gujarat , a
Multi State Cooperative Bank failed to repay its depositors. Alleging
that the Managing Director and other officers of the Bank had
defalcated the funds of the Bank, a criminal complaint was first
registered with the local police at the instance of the Bank for the
offences under Sections 405 , 406 , 408 , 409 and 120B of the I.P.C. But
within a few days, the High Court of Gujarat passed an order in a
Public Interest Litigation directing the CBI to conduct an investigation
into the deeds and misdeeds of the very same set of officers.
Therefore, the CBI registered another FIR within a month of the
registration of the first FIR by the local police. Later the CBI also took
over the investigation into the first complaint. 31. Thereafter, the Multi State Cooperative Bank filed a series
of party-wise complaints for offences under Sections 406, 409, 420,
467 and 471 read with 120B of the IPC . On all these complaints, the
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate ordered an investigation under Section
156 (3) of the Code. The accused filed an application before the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate to recall its order on the ground that the CBI
is already investigating into the very same set of offences. But the
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate rejected the application on the
ground that what was investigated by the CBI was with respect to
specific offences of fraud and misappropriation pertaining to
Mumbai Branch and that the offences for which complaints were 
filed before the Magistrate pertained to the Ahmadabad Branch.
The accused challenged those orders before the High Court
unsuccessfully and the matter landed up in the Supreme Court. The
accused placed heavy reliance upon the decision in T.T. Antony but
the Supreme Court held that the case of the accused in
Rameshchandra did not fall within the principles enunciated in T.T.
Antony. The Court pointed out that the complaints of malfeasance and
misfeasance registered later, were not in respect of the same
cognizable offence or the same occurrence giving rise to one or more
cognizable offences nor were they alleged to have been committed in
the course of the same transaction or the same occurrence. 32. In Vikram v. State of Maharashtra , one FIR came to be
registered on the basis of an oral message received on telephone and
the second FIR was registered after receipt of grater details. The trial
Court convicted a group of persons and the High Court upheld the
same. When the matter landed up in Supreme Court, it was argued 
that the second FIR was unlawful. But the said contention was
rejected by the Supreme Court by pointing out that a cryptic and
anonymous oral message, which did not in terms clearly specify the
commission of a cognizable offence, cannot be treated as First
Information Report. In other words the argument relating to the validity
of the second FIR was rejected on the reasoning that there was
virtually one clear FIR and the other was cryptic and vague. 33. In Pramod Kumar Saxena v. Union of India , what was
before the Supreme Court was a writ petition under Article 32 praying
for (i) the release of the petitioner on bail in connection with all the
cases listed in the annexure, (ii) a direction to all concerned to release
the petitioner on bail, in the event of his arrest pursuant to any other
criminal case with respect to the same offence and (iii) a direction to
the State to evolve a mechanism to ensure the presence of the
petitioner in all the cases as well as the speedy disposal of all cases.
The grievance of the petitioner in Pramod Kumar Saxena was that he
was implicated as an accused in as many as 48 cases in 6 different
States for alleged offences under Sections 406, 409 and 420 read with Section 120B of IPC and also under Section 138 of the Negotiable
Instruments Act, 1881 and that, therefore, he is not able to come out
of the jail despite securing bail. 34. Though the Supreme Court held in Pramod Kumar Saxena 
that the petitioner deserved some relief, the Court categorically ruled
in para-34 of its judgment as follows: 35. It is to be noted that even in Pramod Kumar Saxena, the
Supreme Court did not take note of T.T. Antony, but took note of the
order passed in V.K. Sharma and the decisions in State of Punjab v.
Rajesh Syal and Narinderjit Singh Sahni v. Union of India . 36. In Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab , the validity
of the fresh investigation undertaken by the Central Bureau of
Investigation after the filing of the charge sheet before the Criminal
Court by the local police for offences under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 120 B of I.P.C. r/w Sections 13(1) (d) (e) and 13 (2) of the
Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 in connection with a scam relating
to the appointment of Panchayat Secretaries, was in question. The
Supreme Court held that the second FIR lodged by the CBI was on a 
wider canvass and that it was lodged after holding a detailed
preliminary enquiry. Pointing out the distinction between an
offence committed by an individual or two and an offence
disclosed in a scandal involving a large number of officers, the
Supreme Court cited with the approval, the decision in Ram Lal
Narang. In Nirmal Singh, the Supreme Court took note of the
distinction made in T.T. Antony to the decision in Ram Lal Narang and
thereafter held in paragraph 50 of its decision as follows: 37. In C. Muniappan v. State of Tamil Nadu , which came to
be known popularly as Dharmapuri bus burning case, two FIRs, one 
lodged with regard to the attack on a road transport corporation bus
and another lodged with regard to the burning of a bus carrying
college students on a tour, were taken up together and a consolidated
charge sheet was filed. The most interesting aspect of this case is
that in all other cases where there were multiple FIRs, the accused
sought consolidation or at least challenged the investigation into the
second complaint. But in this case, the accused assailed the
consolidation of the investigation into two different FIRs on the ground
that the crimes under both the FIRs formed part of the same incident
in which a mob destroyed the property and indulged in crime. In order
to repel the contention of the accused that consolidation was illegal,
the Supreme Court invoked the ratio decidendi in T.T. Antony. 38. In Babubhai v. State of Gujarat , the Supreme Court took
note of (1) Ram Lal Narang; (2) TT Antony; (3) Upkar Singh; (4)
Rameshchandra Nandlal Parikh; and (5) Nirmal Singh Kahlon and 
eventually held in paragraph-17 that it is quite possible that more than
one piece of information be given to the police officer-in-charge of the
police station in respect of the same incident involving one or more
cognizable offences and that in such a case, he need not enter each
piece of information in the diary. After saying so, the Supreme Court
summed up the law as follows: 39. In Chirra Shivraj v. State of A.P. , , the first FIR was
registered for an offence under Section 307 I.P.C., immediately after
the victim was taken to the hospital with burn injuries. After her death
a second FIR came to be registered for an offence under Section 302 IPC. The trial Court convicted the accused for an offence under
Section 304 Part-II IPC and the same was confirmed by the Supreme 
Court. On a further appeal, to the Supreme Court, the validity of the
second FIR was questioned on the basis of T.T. Antony. While
rejecting the said contention, the Supreme court observed in
paragraph-14 of the decision in Chirra Shivraj that there cannot be a
second FIR in respect of the same offence/event because whenever 
any further information is received by the investigating agency, it is
always in furtherance of the First Information Report. But since in
Chirra Shivraj, the first FIR was registered on the basis of the
information provided by the victim herself and the second FIR (though
unnecessary) was registered after her death, the Supreme court
pointed out that no prejudice was caused to the accused. 40. In Shiv Shanker Singh v. State of Bihar , two FIRs came
to be registered, in relation to a dacoity, allegedly committed in the
house of two brothers. The first was at the instance of one brother and
another was at the instance of other brother, whose son was killed
during the dacoity. The police closed the first FIR as false on the
ground that there were property disputes between the brothers. The
investigation into the second FIR resulted in the filing of the charge
sheet against the brother, who filed the first FIR. The charge sheet
filed pursuant to the second FIR was for offences under Sections 302 and 506 IPC etc. The accused filed a protest petition, but the same
was rejected. When the matter reached the Supreme Court, the first
contention of the accused was based upon the decision in T.T. Antony
that there cannot be two FIRs in respect of the same incident. But the
Supreme Court held in paragraph-6 its decision that the law does
not prohibit registration and investigation of two FIRs in respect
of the same incident in case the versions are different and that
the test of sameness has to be applied. 41. In Surender Kaushik v. State of U.P. , one of the two
issues before the Supreme Court was whether a second FIR could 
have been lodged and entertained, when on similar and identical cause
of action and allegations, one FIR had already been registered. After
taking note of the decisions in Ram Lal Narang, T.T. Antony, Upkar
Singh, Kari choudhary and Babu Bai, the Supreme Court summed up 
the position in paragraph-24 of its judgment as follows: 42. In Amitbhai Anilchandra Shah v. CBI , the Supreme
Court reiterated the principle laid down in TT Antony that a second FIR
in respect of an offence or different offences committed in the course
of the same transaction is not only impermissible but it violates Article
21 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court also pointed out that the
subsequent decisions in Upkar Singh, Babubai, Chirra Shivraj and C.
Muniappan, reaffirmed the principle laid down in TT Antony. After
referring the ratio laid down in TT Antony, the Supreme Court took up
for consideration the second question as to what would constitute
the same transaction. The Supreme Court, in Amitbhai, quoted
with approval a passage from the decision of the Privy Council in
Babulal v. Emperor (AIR 1938 PC 130) to the effect that if several
persons conspire to commit offences, and commit overt acts in
pursuance of the conspiracy (a circumstance which makes the act of
one, the act of each and all the conspirators), these acts are
committed in the course of the same transaction, which embraces the
conspiracy and the acts done under it. The common concert and 
agreement which constitute the conspiracy, serve to unify the acts
done in pursuance of it. 43. In Anju Chaudhary v. State of U.P. , the vexed question
as to whether a second FIR is permissible, arose out of the breaking
out of the communal violence in Gorakhpur on 27.01.2007. A criminal
complaint was registered and a charge sheet was also filed later. But
after 10 months, a private complaint came to be lodged by an
individual before the Chief Judicial Magistrate alleging that those who
instigated the communal violence on 27.01.2007 conducted a public
meeting and made hate speeches spreading fear amongst the 
members of a particular community. The Magistrate refused to refer
the complaint under Section 156 (3) of the Code, on the ground that a
FIR had already been registered into the incidence that followed the
meeting. The complainant took the matter to the High Court by way of
a revision, and the High Court remanded the matter to the Magistrate
to reconsider the matter. The order of remand passed by the High
Court was challenged by way of Special Leave Petition before the
Supreme Court. One of the grounds raised before the Supreme Court 
was that there cannot be two FIRs registered in relation to the same
occurrence or different events or incidents two or more but forming
part of the same transactions. While dealing with the said issue, the
Supreme Court pointed out in paragraph-15 that it is a settled principle
that there cannot be two FIRs registered for the same offence. But the
Supreme Court added a note of caution as follows: 44. Again in paragraph-16 the Supreme Court held in Anju
Chaudhary that the question has to be examined on the merits of each
case whether a subsequently registered FIR is a second FIR about
the same incident or offence or is based upon distinct and different
facts and whether its scope of inquiry is entirely different or not. The
Court indicated that no straightjacket formula, uniformly applicable to
all cases can be laid down and that it will always be a mixed question
of law and facts. 45. After taking note of the previous decisions in Ramlal
Narang, M. Krishna, TT Antony, Rameshchanra Nandlal Parikh, 
Vikram and Shiv Shankar Singh, the Supreme Court observed in 
paragraph-23 of its decision in Anju Chaudhury as follows: 46. In fact in paragraph-24 of the decision in Anju Chaudhury,
the Supreme Court took the example of the same group of people 
committing theft in a similar manner in different localities falling under
different jurisdictions and held that even if the incidents were
committed in close proximity of time, there could be separate FIRs
and institution of even one stating that a number of thefts had been
committed, would not debar the registration of another FIR. 47. Dealing with the rule enunciated in Section 220 of the Code,
the Supreme Court pointed out in paragraph-40 of its decision in Anju
Chaudary that though the law recognizes common trial or a common 
FIR for one series of acts, so connected together as to form the same
transaction, the expression same transaction from its very nature, is
incapable of exact definition. The Court left it to the common sense
and not artificial or technical sense to decide whether or not in the
very facts of a case, it can be held to be one transaction. Finally the
Court pointed out that for determining whether several offences
form part of the same transaction, the test which has to be
applied is whether they are related to one another in point of
purpose or of cause and effect or as principal and subsidiary, so
as to result in one continuous action. The Court went on to state
that where there is commonality or purpose or design, where
there is continuity of action, then all those persons involved can
be accused of the same or different offences committed in the
course of the same transaction. 48. In Yanab Sheikh @ Gagu v. State of West Bengal , the
Supreme Court reiterated the principles enunciated in Anju Chaudhary
and held that a second FIR about the same occurrence between the 
same persons and with similarity of scope of investigation cannot be
registered and by applying the test of similarity it may be hit by the
proviso to Section 162 of the Code. Analysis of the decisions of the Supreme Court: 49. Our research has taken us to the above 21 decisions of the
Supreme Court where this vexed question came up for consideration 
again and again. The summary that we have given above under the 
caption Evolution of the Law, can also be given in a capsule in the
form of a tabular column so that the distinction that the Supreme Court
drew between different types/categories of case could be easily
appreciated. S.NO 
Decision
The dispute arose out
of
Whether the 
Second (2nd) FIR or
Multiple FIRs filed
are Valid or Invalid 1. Ram Lal Narang Vs. 
State(Delhi
Administration ) and Om 
Prakash Narang & Ors Vs. 
State(Delhi
Administration), (1979) 2
SCC 322 
Arose out of theft of
two sandstone pillars of
great antiquity. Valid 2. M. Krishna Vs. State of
Karnataka , (1999) 3 SCC 247 Arose out of amassing 
wealth disproportionate
to ones source of
income. Valid 3. V.K. Sharma Vs. Union of 
India , (2000)9SCC449 
Arose out of swindling a
large number of
depositors on the false
pretext that their
deposits would be
returned with interest
on a subsequent date. (White-Collar Crime)
Valid (Multiple
FIRs) 4. Mohan Bhaitha Vs. State 
of Bihar ,
(2001)4SCC350 
Arose out of a dowry
death. Note: - The question
involved here is not
concerned about 
whether there can be
more FIRs than one but 
whether there can be
more trials than one. Held: -Offences
more than one 
committed by the 
same persons 
could be tried at
one trial, if they
can be held to be
in one series of
facts so as to form
the same 
transaction. 5. T.T. Antony Vs. State of
Kerala , (2001) 6 SCC 350 
Arose out of police
firing resulting into
deaths of few people
and injuries to a large
number of people. Third (3rd) FIR
Invalid. 6. Narinderjit Singh Shani and
another Vs. Union of India ,
(2002)2SCC210 
Arose out of swindling
of a large number of
depositors on the false
pretext that their
deposits would be
returned with interest
on a subsequent date. Valid (Multiple
FIRs) 7.

Kari Chaudhary Vs. Most. Sita Devi and Ors, (2002) 1
SCC 714 
Arose out of a murder
case. Valid 8. State of Punjab Vs. Rajesh
Syal , (2002)8SCC158 
Arose out of swindling
of a large number of
depositors on the false
pretext that their
deposits would be
returned with interest
on a subsequent date. (White-Collar Crime)
Valid (Multiple
FIRs) 9. Upkar Singh v. Ved 
Prakash , (2004) 13 SCC 292 
Arose out of an attempt
to murder and house- trespass cases 
Valid 10. RameshchandraNandlal 
Parikh v. State of Gujarat (2006) 1 SCC 732 
Arose out of swindling
of a large number of
depositors on the false
pretext that their
deposits would be
returned with interest
on a subsequent date. Valid (Multiple
FIRs) 11. Vikram Vs. State of
Maharashtra , (2007) 12
SCC 332 
Arose out of a murder
case. Valid 12. Pramod Kumar Saxena Vs. 
Union of India and Ors ,
(2008)9SCC685 
Arose out of swindling
of a large number of
depositors on the false
pretext that their
deposits would be
returned with interest
on a subsequent date. Valid (Multiple
FIRs) 13. Nirmal Singh Kahlon Vs. 
State of Punjab and
Others , (2009) 1 SCC 441 
Arose out of scandal
involving selection of
Panchayat Secretaries. Valid 14. C. Muniappan and others 
Vs. State of Tamil Nadu ,
(2010) 9 SCC 567 
Arose out of setting fire
to a university bus and
several public buses. Investigation of
the Second FIR 
was clubbed with 
the investigation
of the First FIR. In
essence, two 
complaints/FIRs 
are clubbed
together and
investigated
jointly. 15. Bahubhai Vs. State of
Gujarat , (2010) 12 SCC 254 
Arose out of altercation
that took place
between members of 
the two communities. Invalid 16.
ChirraShivraj Vs. Sate of
AP, (2010) 14 SCC 444 
Arose out of an attempt
to murder case. Second F.I.R. held
Valid because SHO 
made a mistake by 
recording
information as a
fresh F.I.R. and
that this mistake
should not make 
the case of
prosecution weak 
especially when no
prejudice had
been caused. 17. Shiv Shankar Singh Vs. 
State of Bihar , (2012) 1 SCC 130 Arose out of dacoity
and murder. Valid 18. Surender Kaushik and 
Others Vs. State of UP ,
(2013) 5 SCC 148 
Arose out of fake and
fraudulent documents 
prepared by the
accused persons. Invalid 19. AmitbhaiAnilchandra Shah 
Vs. CBI , (2013) 6 SCC 348 
Arose out of murder
cases 
Invalid 20.
Anju Chowdry Vs. State of 
UP, (2013) 6 SCC 384 
Arose out of a hate
speech. Valid 21.
YanabSheikh@gagu Vs. 
State of West Bengal,
(2013) 6 SCC 428 
Arose out of a murder
case. Invalid
Conclusion to be drawn: Therefore, the decision of the Supreme Court in TT Antony on which
heavy reliance is placed by the counsel for the petitioners cannot go
to the rescue of the petitioners. 51. Despite the fact that the decision of the Two Member bench
in T.T. Antony was not taken note of in (i) Narinderjit Singh Sahni, (ii)
State of Punjab v. Rajesh Syal and (iii) Pramod Kumar Saxena, it is
clear that in all those 3 decisions, the Supreme Court was concerned
with the cases of persons who collected money from innumerable 
persons but failed to repay the same. The decision in T.T. Antony
arose out of offences relating to Law and Order, Public Order and the
Police Firing. 52. When the offences alleged against the writ petitioners in the
present batch of cases relate to collection of deposits and failure to
repay, the ratio decidendi in (i) Narinderjit Singh Sahni, (ii) Rajesh
Syal and (iii) Pramod Kumar Saxena alone would apply and not the 
ratio in T.T. Antony. Two High Court Decisions 53. Having disposed of the contention revolving around
T.T.Antony, let us now take up for consideration, the decision of a
learned single Judge of this Court in Akbaruddin Owaisi v.
Government of Andhra Pradesh . The said decision arose out of
two hate speeches allegedly delivered by the writ petitioner, one at
Nizamabad on 08-12-2012 and another at Nirmal on 22-12-2012. 
Interestingly, two FIRs came to be registered in respect of the speech
delivered at Nizamabad on 08-12-2012, one by the Police themselves
at Nizamabad and another in the Osmania University Police Station in
Hyderabad on a private complaint lodged by an individual which was
referred to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Hyderabad, to the Police
under Section 156 (3) of the Code. The petitioner before the learned
single Judge in Akbaruddin Owaisi did not attack the FIR registered in
Nirmal, but confined his attack only to the registration of two FIRs one
at Nizamabad and another at Hyderabad in respect of the very same 
speech delivered at Nizamabad. 54. While allowing the writ petition in part and directing the
transfer of investigation in both the FIRs to the CID, the learned Judge
took note of two decisions, relating to hate speeches, one of the Delhi
High Court in Maqbool Fida Husain v. Raj Kumar Pandey and 
another of the Supreme Court in S. Khushbu v. Kanniammal . While 
the case before the Delhi High Court related to a famous painter
against whom several criminal complaints came to be registered on
the ground that his paintings denigrated Hindu Gods, the case in S.
Khushbu related to a speech made by an actor which was taken 
exception to by chauvinists in several parts of the State of Tamil Nadu
leading to the registration of multiple FIRs. 55. The decision in Akbaruddin Owaisi arose out of
a single cause of action, if we may borrow the said expression from
the Civil Law. A single speech propagated or published or televised or
publicised in different places cannot result in the prosecution of the
individual in different Courts since the transmission of a single
message cannot tantamount to different acts of crime. We must also
point out at this stage that while the learned Judge, in his decision in
Akbaruddin Owaisi, took note of T.T. Antony, S. Khushbu and M.F. 
Hussein, he did not take note of the decisions of the Supreme Court in
Narinderjit Singh Sahni, Rajesh Syal and Pramod Kumar Saxena. 
Therefore, we do not think that the decision rendered in a case
relating to a single act of crime committed by an individual, which,
when propagated or publicised, is taken advantage of by several
individuals to witch-hunt the person, cannot apply to a case where
innumerable persons are alleged to have been cheated at different
places at different points of time. To say that the offences committed
against all those persons are punishable under the very same
provisions and that therefore there cannot be multiple FIRs would be
equivalent to saying that a person committing a series of thefts in
several places cannot be made to face separate prosecutions in
respect of each act of theft committed against different individuals at
different points of time. 56. Unfortunately, the decisions of the Supreme Court in (1)
Narinderjit Singh Sahani (2) Rajesh Syal and (3) Promod Kumar
Saxena were not cited before the learned Judge in Akbaruddin Owaisi.
As a consequence, the learned Judge opined in Paragraph-21 of his
decision in Akbaruddin Owaisi that the declaration of law in TT Antony
had not been diluted in any subsequent judgments of the Supreme 
Court even though exceptions were carved out. 57. But, nevertheless the learned Judge enlisted in Akbaruddin
Owaisi at least 12 different types of cases where the rule that any
further complaint against the same accused for the same incident,
subsequent to the registration of a case is prohibited under the Code,
will not apply. It will be useful to extract the relevant paragraph-21 of
the decision in Akbaruddin Owaisi as follows: (iii). Where several distinct offences/incidents have been reported. In
such a case the investigating agency should issue separate FIRs under Section 154(1) Cr.P.C. (M/s. Jagathi Publications Ltd. Rep. by Y.
Eshwara Prasad Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation: 2012 (2) ALT
(Crl) 285 (A.P.) = 2012 (2) ALD (Cri) 762). (iv). to cryptic, anonymous or oral messages which do not clearly
specify a cognizable offence and cannot be treated as an FIR. No
exception can be taken if, upon receipt of proper information, another
detailed FIR is recorded, and the detailed FIR is treated as the FIR.
( Tapinder Singh v. State of Punjab (1970) 2 SCC 113; Vikram v. State of
Maharashtra 2008 (1) ALT (crl.) 179 (SC) = 2008 (1) SCJ 227 = (2007) 12
SCC 332). (v). Where, for an earlier period, there was an FIR which was duly
investigated into and culminated in a final report which was accepted by
a Competent Court. ( M. Krishna v. State of Karnataka ((1999) 3 SCC 247: (vii). in cases where there are different versions, they are in respect of
two different incidents/crimes, and when new discovery is made on
factual foundations. Discoveries may be made by the police authorities
at a subsequent stage and can also surface in another proceeding.
( Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab : (2009) 1 SCC 441; Babubhai v.
State of Gujarat : (2010) 12 SCC 254). (viii). even in cases where the first complaint is registered and
investigation initiated, it is possible to file a further complaint based on
the material gathered during the course of investigation. ( Upkar Singh v.
Ved Prakash ((2004) 13 SCC 292 = AIR 2004 SC 4320 = 2005 (1) ALT 2.2 
(DN SC); Ram Lal Narang v. State (Delhi Administration ) (1979 CriLJ
1346) : (1979) 2 SCC 322). (ix). Where two FIRs are lodged in respect of the same incident having
materially different allegations of commission of different cognizable
offences. ( T.T. Antony v. State of Kerala (2001 CriLJ 3329 : (2001) 6 SCC
181; Upkar Singh v. Ved Prakash ((2004) 13 SCC 292 : AIR 2004 SC 
4320) = 2005 (1) ALT 2.2 (DN SC). (x). to a counter claim by the accused in the first complaint, or on his
behalf, alleging a different version of the said incident. In case there are
rival versions in respect of the same episode, it would be treated as two
different FIRs and investigation can be carried under both of them by
the same investigating agency. ( Upkar Singh v. Ved Prakash (2004) 13
SCC 292; Kari Choudhary v. Most.Sita Devi : 2002 (1) ALT (Crl.) 198 (SC)
= (2002) 1 SCC 714 : AIR 2002 SC 441); Ashok Kumar Tiwari v. State of 
U.P (2008 CriLJ 4668 (Allahabad High Court)). (xi). where the FIRs are regarding independent and distinct offences,
registration of a subsequent FIR cannot be prohibited on the ground that
some other FIR had been filed against the petitioner in respect of other
allegations made against him. ( Rameshchandra Nandlal Parikh v. State of
Gujarat , (2006) 1 SCC 732). (xii). in cases where the same group of people commit offences in a
similar manner in different localities falling under different jurisdictions.
Even if these incidents are committed in close proximity of time, there
can be separate FIRs. ( Anju Chaudhary v. State of Uttar Pradesh : 2013
(5) SCJ 825 = (2013) Cri.L.J. 776). 58. It may be of interest to note that in Akbaruddin Owaisi a
forceful argument was made against the prohibition of a second FIR
on the ground that if the information provided by the de facto
complainants in the second or subsequent FIRs are treated only as a
statements under Section 162 of the Code, it may be possible for the
State to withdraw the prosecution without the knowledge or objection
from the victim, leaving the victim in the lurch. But, the said argument
was rejected by the learned Judge in Akbaruddin Owaisi in paragraphs
34 and 35 of the report on the ground that there is no prohibition in the
law even for an informant or complainant or an initiator of criminal
prosecution to object to the withdrawal of a complaint by the State. 59. But, yet another forceful argument on similar lines arising
out of Section 320 of the Code was not projected before the learned
Single Judge in Akbaruddin Owaisi. Certain offences enlisted in the
table under sub-section (1) of Section 320 can be compounded without
the permission of the Court and certain other offences enlisted in the
table under sub-section (2) of Section 320 can be compounded with
the permission of the Court. Though column No.3 of the tables under
sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 320 make it clear that only the
victim (and not the de facto complainant or informant) can compound
the offences with the accused, the registration of single FIR in cases
where innumerable persons have been cheated, would lead to the 
possibility of partial compounding or compounding in installments. 60. Therefore, the decision of the Single Judge of this Court in
Akbaruddin Owaisi, which arose out of registration of multiple FIRs in
relation to a single speech, can have no application to the cases on
hand. Actually there are enough and more indications to this effect in
the very judgment itself. 61. It appears that the contentions, same as those raised before
us by the petitioners, found favour with a learned Judge of the Madras
High Court in Viswapriya (India) Ltd v. Government of Tamilnadu
and Others (2015 3 MLJ (Crl) 385). In that case two companies
against which criminal complaints were registered for offences under
the IPC as well as under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Protection
of Interests of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1997 filed
Writ Petitions challenging the registration of complaints as without
jurisdiction. The challenge was on several grounds namely (1) that the
Deputy Superintendent of Police of the Economic Offences Wing of 
the police had no power to investigate offences under the special
enactment; (2) that the police have no power to investigate offences
relating to incorporated companies; and (3) that it is only the
Competent Authority under the special enactment who will be entitled
to investigate into such offences. But all these contentions were
negatived by the learned judge of the Madras High Court. The last
contention was that there cannot be multiple FIRs. This contention
was raised on the strength of the decision of the Supreme Court in T.T
Antony. This contention was accepted by the learned Judge of the
Madras High Court and a direction was issued to the police not to
register any fresh FIRs but to treat all further complaints as
statements under Section 161 of the code. 62. Interestingly, the complaints against both the companies in
the case before the Madras High Court was also that both these
companies collected deposits from the public and failed to repay them
and that several depositors filed complaints all over the country. 63. But, the learned judge of the Madras High Court did not take
note of any of the decisions of the Supreme Court, both before and
after T.T Antony. We have analysed all the decisions of the Supreme
Court on this question, starting from Ram Lal Narang up to Yanab
Sheikh @ Gagu, delivered over a span of about 35 years. Therefore,
the decision of the Madras High Court based solely upon TT Antony,
with great respect, does not lay down the correct law.
CONCLUSION: 64. As we have pointed out earlier, in almost all the five
decisions of the Supreme Court where finance companies and its 
directors were accused of collecting deposits and not repaying them,
the Supreme Court did not adopt the same view as adopted in T.T
Antony. Though in V.K Sharma and P.K Sharma the Supreme Court 
granted a small reprieve, the Supreme Court did not grant the reliefs
that the petitioners have sought in these writ petitions. It must be
pointed out that a staggering amount of nearly Rupees seven
thousand crores was admittedly due, when the first PIL was filed. The
number of depositors to whom such a huge amount was due from Agri 
Gold group of companies and Akshaya Gold, was about 32 lakhs of 
people. These companies had branches in several places. The 
depositors, who invested money in various branches, have
independent causes of action. 65. Therefore, the prayer made by the petitioners to treat the
earliest complaint registered against them as the First Information
Report and to treat all subsequent complaints as statements under
Section 161/162 of the Code, cannot be granted. Similarly, no Court
can issue a mandamus directing the Station House Officers of all the
police stations within the jurisdiction of the High Court not to register
any further FIR, as the same would also tantamount to a restriction
upon the victims of such a huge scam from taking recourse to lawful
remedies. 66. On the question as to whether there could be a trial of
hundreds of criminal complaints and as to how the accused could be
subjected to so many trials, the answer is not far too difficult to seek.
In so far as the States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are
concerned, there is a special enactment known as The Telangana/ Andhra Pradesh Protection of Depositors of Financial Establishments
Act, 1999 . The Act contemplates the constitution of a Special Court
under Section 6 (1) . Under Section 6 (2) , no Court including a Court
constituted under the Insolvency Laws, other than a Special Court
shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter to which the provisions
of the Act apply. Under sub-section (3) of Section 6 , any pending case
in any other Court to which the provisions of the Act apply, shall stand
transferred to the Special Court. The Act has been given overriding
effect upon the other laws, under Section 14 , which states that the
provisions of the Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in
force. In fact, under Section 13 (1) , the Special Court constituted
under this Act can take cognizance without the accused being
committed to it for trial. 67. The only area, which may be a grey area, is that after the
bifurcation of the State into two, there will be Special Courts in both
the States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and both may have 
concurrent jurisdiction. But as and when an appropriate occasion
arises, the High Court can interfere at that stage to transfer all cases
to the Special Court in any one of the two States. The occasion for
exercise of that power has not arisen so far. 68. Therefore, the petitioners are not entitled to any relief and
the writ petitions are liable to be dismissed. However, for the purpose
of facilitating the investigating agencies to get a clear and
comprehensive picture of the range and width of the offences
allegedly committed and to trace the trail of money, the State
Governments may consider the constitution of a special wing in each
of the two States and notifying them under Section 2 (s) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, so that all FIRs pending all over the two
States could be transferred to a single agency and dealt with
conveniently. With these observations, the writ petitions are
dismissed. As a sequel thereto, miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending
shall stand closed. ________________________ 
V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J 
_____________ 
S.V. BHATT, J 
Date: 04-07-2017