SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Never Forget -
DATE: 2015-05-26
SCORE: 140
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/37bbhm/never_forget/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am off late seeing the following trends here / general social media.

* Statements like "UPA was corrupt, but so were other governments"
* UPA's corruption came out only after 5 years and in UPA II
* Every party and thus by extension every government is corrupt
* Or AK and Rahul's famous "crony capitalism".

In essence, the whitewashing of the UPA's / Congress' corruption has already begun. I did expect this, but not so soon. No matter what party you support / hate / love, please do keep one thing in mind. The Congress / UPA was by far THE most corrupt government we have ever had. 

What was outrageous about the Congress / UPA corruption was the manner in which it took place, the sheer brazeness of the act. Cabinet ministers put up the country for sale, the PM was disregarded and disrespected. Institutions like the TRAI trampled on, honest bureaucrats stifled. 

Saying that the scams came out only after UPA I (4-5 years later) is a blatant lie, look at how 2g panned out.

&gt;&gt;**DoT decides to issue licences on first-come- first-serve basis, preponing the cut-off date to September 25, from October 1, 2007. Later on the same day, DoT posted an announcement on its website saying those who apply between 3.30 and 4.30 pm would be issued licences in accordance with the said policy.**

By 2009 (spectrum allocation happened in 2008) the game was up, by June 2009 the CBI was instructed by the CVC to investigate.

The Delhi HC in a separate ruling (Jul 2009) ruled that the whole cut off being advanced was illegal.

Oct 2009 the CBI raids start.

As you can see, it is very disingenuous to say the scams came out only during UPA II, it was very much in the limelight not even midway into UPA I. If you apply the same timelines, we should get these raids, high court rulings declaring proceedings void etc by June - Oct 2015.

Look at how brazen the act itself was (the bolded part) - This is not new however. Way back in the 60's, M Karunanidhi invented this art form of corruption. [The Sarkaria commission](http://forbesindia.com/printcontent/23732) singled out Karunanidhi for inventing "scientific corruption" one that leaves no trace. [You could see this for his corruption in action](http://www.ndtv.com/india-news/aiadmk-chief-jayalalithaas-statement-447506)

&gt;&gt;*On Jan 20, 1969, Mrs. Dharma purchased the house No 9, 1st Cross Street, Raja Annamalaipuram, Chennai from one Mrs. E L Viswasam for Rs. 57,000. On August 21, 1970, Dharma sold the same house to T.K. Kapali (her security guard) as shown by Document no 1523/70.*

&gt;&gt;*In this document, the registrar notes that the buyer T.K. Kapali paid the seller Rajathi @ Dharma Rs. 14,000 in his presence. On the same day, Dharma prepared an unregistered lease document in the name of T.K. Kapali. According to this, the same house was leased to Dharma on a monthly rent of Rs. 300 (in other words, she stays on rent in a house she has sold).*

&gt;&gt;*On Jan 30,1972, Kapali sells this same house to one Mrs. Sivabhagyam for Rs. 45,000 (he sells it at a loss of Rs. 12,000). Sivabhagyam happens to be Dharma's mother! There is a registered document for this sale. On March 20, 1972, Sivabhagyam writes out a settlement deed making over the same house to her daughter Dharma and grand daughter Kanimozhi. This deed indicated that the property would go to them after her (Sivabhagyam's) death.*

&gt;&gt;*"In her IT returns filed on March 13, 1973, Dharma claimed that she had borrowed Rs. 40,000 from Kapali to purchase the house. She had also put in Rs. 23,000 which was from her own savings (Rs. 40,000+ Rs. 23,000 = Rs. 63,000. But the registered purchase value was only Rs. 57,000).*

&gt;&gt;*This borrowing is supported by an unregistered document dated January 11, 1970. According to this document, the borrowed amount was to be returned in 3 instalments of Rs. 15,000, Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 10,000. If this did not happen, the house was to be sold to the said Kapali.*

&gt;&gt;*A Promissory Note also was prepared to this effect and signed by Dharma on August 21, 1970. Kapali later wrote in the Promissory Note that he had received back Rs. 40,000 from Dharma. This pro-note was later seized by the IT authorities on March 23, 1976.*

&gt;&gt;*"In the IT returns filed by Kapali on April 11, 1973, Kapali indicated that he borrowed Rs. 20,000 as loan from Sivabhagyam in order to pay Rs. 40,000 to Dharma...(in other words, the security guard borrows money from Rajathi's mother to lend money to Rajathi!!)"*

2G's MO was very similar to what Karunanidhi perfected in the 60's, only the scale was much much higher.

He would issue govt tenders, specify a date and time. A week or so before the original timeline expired he would alert certain vested interests. The govt would then issue a notification in the gazette that the deadline had been advanced and there would be typically 18-24 hours left for it to expire. This meant only those already intimated by MK would have DD's and the documentation ready, the rest were legally disqualified as they never had the time to make the deadline.

The second stage of this was awarding contracts to himself (or his own) using cut-outs after adding huge margins. 2G was pretty much the same. Selling spectrum at discounted prices to nonentities like "Swan Telecom" (Balwa) who promptly resold it at a huge margin (legal profit) to legit contractors / service providers and MK / A Raja / Whoever else were amply rewarded for these services.

This is how brazen the corruption in the UPA govt was. In the past, be it Bofors or the scams in the NDA I era, it was always about access - brokers and middlemen bribing ministers to gain access or maybe even (like in the case of Bofors and Jaguar from Indira Gandhi Raj) get special treatment in tenders. While this was horrible, never have we had Cabinet Ministers selling the countries valuable resources so openly.

Want to talk about "Crony Capitalism", Dhirubhai Ambani was a spectacular crony capitalist, it got so bad that his son openly said that "Congress is my dhukan". Want to talk about Crony Capitalism, look no further than Subodh Kanth Sahay influencing the PMO to release coal blocks to his own company (or should I say his brothers company), look no further than Congress MP Naveen Jindal happily allocating himself coal blocks. Much noise was made about a Bidi baron being on a parliamentary committee on Tobacco (though the Constitution explicitly allows it, as long as said person declares his interests before he joins the committee), yet we forget Jindal looting this country while being in the government. Talk about conflict of interests. Want more? S Jegathrakshangan and his greed are legendary in TN - 

A minister in the UPA govt, gets a coal block allocated to him, he ties up with a Pondicherry govt enterprise and later sells his own stake (and an obscene profit) to another private entity.

Seriously, this boggles the mind - UPA / Congress ministers were trading in coal as though it was candy, and yet Rahul Gandhi has the gumption to talk about "crony capitalism".

All I request you is, support whoever you want, hate whoever you want, but please don't ever forget the obscene, insane and intolerable levels of corruption the UPA indulged in. Never ever forget it and don't let others forget it.