Union Minister for Communications Jyotiraditya Madhavrao Scindia unveiled the UPI-UPU Integration Project at the 28th Universal Postal Congress in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Tuesday.

Notably, this integration project is a joint initiative between NPCI International Payments Ltd (NIPL), the Indian Department of Posts (DoP), and the Universal Postal Union (UPU), as per the Ministry of Communications.

For context, the initiative combines the synergies of India’s Unified Payments Interface (UPI) system with the UPU Interconnection Platform (UPU-IP) to facilitate financial transactions across national boundaries.

The UPU currently includes 192 member countries, and through this initiative, India will engage with the union in terms of expertise-sharing, cooperative innovation, and capacity-building in the postal and payments domains.

Scindia said that this partnership would allow families across borders to transfer money instantly, securely and at lower costs, while reinforcing the postal sector’s role as a provider of community services.

He also announced that India would invest $10 million in boosting the global postal sector, with a special focus on building capabilities in digital payments and e-commerce.

“We have signed Letters of Intent (LoIs) with Union (UPU) partners, including Africa, Caribbean, Latin America, formalising contracts on trading, digital finance, and e-commerce,” Scindia revealed in Dubai.

Elsewhere, he claimed that linking UPI to the UPU Interconnection Platform would make cross-border remittances “as simple as sending a text.”

“With Aadhaar, Jan Dhan, and India Post Payments Bank, we have opened over 560 million accounts, most in women’s names.

“India Post delivered over 900 million letters and parcels last year. This is the scale and spirit of inclusion we bring to the global stage,” Scindia added.

Meanwhile, the Director General of the UPU, Masahiko Metoki, praised India’s contribution in the financial services sector, highlighting New Delhi’s role as the Co-Chair of the Postal Operations Council and its efforts towards international remittances.

India’s UPI payments system was rolled out in Qatar – the UAE’s geographical neighbour – earlier this year.

“The integration with Qatar National Bank (QNB) is complete, testing is done, and the launch has already taken place. This is a significant step in enhancing digital payments between our countries,” India’s ambassador to Qatar had remarked in March 2025.

Elsewhere, the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) allowed Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) to make UPI payments from 12 foreign countries in November 2024. The list includes the United States of America, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, France, Singapore, and others.

However, one must also keep in mind the issue of UPI outages and how they impact financial autonomy and the smooth transfer of funds for the average user.

For instance, a major UPI outage in May disrupted transactions for users of Google Pay, PhonePe, and Paytm during peak hours.

This outage also left vendors and merchants unable to accept payments initiated through UPI, as per various reports.

Notably, this happened after the NPCI issued guidelines in April to specifically reduce the instances of UPI outages.

For context, NPCI advised banks to wait 90 seconds before making their first status check and to limit the number of checks to three over a two-hour period. The corporation also called for API rate limits and made annual audits – conducted by CERT-In empanelled auditors – mandatory.

Furthermore, in June 2025, NPCI instructed relevant stakeholders to reduce the response time of UPI transactions in order to improve customer experience.

At the same time, the corporation cautioned against these changes impacting the technical decline (TD) threshold. For context, a technical decline occurs due to connectivity issues, switch unavailability, or incorrect message data elements, among other factors.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event