Mr. Zainul Aabidin, Advocate. 1. In this petition, filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with
 Section 103 of the Constitution of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the
 petitioners crave the indulgence of this Court in quashing the order dated
 28.01.2015 passed by the Ld. Financial Commissioner (Revenue), in a revision
 petition bearing file No.290/FC-AP. The petitioners also implore for the grant of
 a writ of mandamus commanding the respondents not to disturb their possession
 in respect of the land that forms the subject matter of the petition on the grounds,
 inter alia, that the respondent No.3 herein (the petitioner before the Ld. Financial
 Commissioner) has abused the process of law with ulterior motives. The judgment
 passed by the learned Financial Commissioner is illegal. The Shariat Act of 2007
 does not apply to the case in hand where the mutations have been attested before a
 period of more than five decades, and that if such an interpretation is allowed to
 be given to the Act, thousands of mutations attested under the Customary Law
 will have to be set aside which will open a Pandora's Box. 2. The facts under the shade and cover of which this petition has been filed require
 to be enumerated here and these are that the respondent No.3 here in this petition OWP No.184/2015 Page 1 of 15 filed a revision on 15.05.2013 before the learned Financial Commissioner, J&K,
 Srinagar, against the mutation Nos.176 and 179 attested on 23.09.1959 viz-a-viz
 the landed estate of Jamal-ud-Din situate at Margund, Tehsil Ganderbal (now
 Kangan). Jamal-ud-Din had contracted two marriages, one with Mst. Bakhti and
 the other with Mst. Saira. Mst. Bakhti gave birth to a son from the ribs of Jamal-
 ud-Din and his name was Yaqoob. The petitioner before the learned Financial
 Commissioner and Reshma were born from the thighs of Mst. Sara. Reshma is
 the mother of respondent Nos.6 and 7 as they figured before the learned Financial
 Commissioner. Yaqoob died during the life time of his father leaving behind two
 sons, namely, Ayoub Gojar, respondent No.1 in the revision petition and
 Mehboob, who is survived by four daughters, respondent Nos.2 to 5 before the
 learned Financial Commissioner. 3. In order to understand the relation of the parties in the right perspective the
 pedigree table as it relates to them is delineated herein below: 4. The petitioner assailed the order passed in the two mutations detailed herein,
 before the learned Financial Commissioner, mainly on the grounds: (a) that the
 parties being Muslims are governed by the norms of Muslim Personal Law and
 the impugned mutations have neither been attested under the Muslim Personal OWP No.184/2015 Page 2 of 15 Law nor under the Customary Law; (b) that no enquiry has been conducted by
the mutating officer before attesting the mutations; (c) that two separate mutations
have been attested in respect of the one and the same inheritance; (d) that the
petitioner was a minor at the time of the attestation of the mutations; and (e) that
the respectable persons of the village were not associated with the mutation
proceedings. The learned Financial Commissioner after scanning and evaluating the
pleadings of the parties and the material placed before him, came to the following
conclusion: Applying the same dictum to case in hand, the mutations do not stand the
 test of law and are liable to be set aside. 6. For the reasons supra, the revision petition is accepted and the
 mutation Nos. 176 and 179 both dated 23.09.1959 of estate Mirgund,
 Tehsil Ganderbal now Kangan are set aside. The case is remanded to the
 Tehsildar concerned for passing appropriate orders strictly in accordance
 with Muslim Personal Law and as per the procedure laid down in Standing Order 23-A. Interim orders, if any, granted in the matter are
 vacated. File be consigned to records after due completion." 5. Heard and considered. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner herein has strenuously and vehemently argued
 that the mutations have been attested before a period of more than five decades
 and in case the order of the learned Financial Commissioner is allowed to operate,
 it will upset and reverse the position as it prevailed between the parties during this
 period of more than five decades. He has proceeded to state that all the
 beneficiaries under these mutations i.e. legal heirs of Jamal Din acted upon these
 mutations and enjoyed the property and its usufructs and after a long period of 55
 years, the respondent No.3 out of greed filed a revision petition which on the face
 of it is barred by time. The mutations have been set aside on vague and unjustified
 grounds. The petitioner in the revision petition, i.e., respondent No.3 herein
 pleaded before the learned Financial Commissioner, that he attained the
 knowledge of these mutations in the year 2013 which is an incorrect narration of OWP No.184/2015 Page 4 of 15 facts. The respondent No.3 is about 60 years of age and being a co-sharer and a
 relative of the petitioners herein was well aware of the attestation of these
 mutations and, therefore, it can by no stretch of imagination, be said that he was
 ignorant about the attestation of these mutations. It has also been pleaded and
 argued that a chain of mutations with regard to the landed estate left by late Jamal
 Din have been attested, whereby third party interests have been created from time
 to time and the details of these mutations are as under: 7. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents has argued that the mutations
 under challenge before the learned Financial Commissioner were not attested by
 the Tehsildar in accordance with the provisions of law and the respondent No.3
 being a minor at the time of attestation of these mutations could not challenge the
 same during his minority. The mutations had to be attested under the Shariat Act ,
 applicable in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Law governing Inheritance
 was not applied properly by the Attesting Officer, i.e., Tehsildar. One of the sons
 of Jamal-ud-Din had died during the life time of his father and, as such, neither he
 nor his legal heirs were entitled to succeed to the estate of Jamal-ud-Din, but the
 Tehsildar overlooked this aspect of the case in attesting the mutations. The
 respondent No.3 was entitled to two shares as compared to his sister Mst.
 Reshma, who was entitled to only one share but they have succeeded to the estate
 in equal shares in the impugned mutations and the widow of the deceased Jamal
 Din i.e. the mother of answering respondent has not been given any share at all.
 The petitioners in this petition based their case on a Will of Jamal-ud-Din, but no
 such Will was ever executed by him. The Grand Mufti, Sh. Bashir Ud Din has OWP No.184/2015 Page 5 of 15 certified that the father of the petitioners died during the lifetime of his father and,
 as such, neither he nor any his children had any right of inheritance in the
 property. Under Section 15 of the Land Revenue Act, the Financial Commissioner
 has the powers to revise any order at any time and no limitation is prescribed for
 filing the revision petition. Therefore, the petitioners before this Court cannot take
 away the right of the respondent No.3 in violation of the Muslim Personal Law. In
 the end it has been argued that the petition of the petitioners entails dismissal and
 it may be dismissed accordingly. 8. Heard and considered. 9. Testing the arguments of the learned counsel for the parties on the above
 parameters the first Question that strikes ones mind is whether the Law of
 Limitation does or does not apply to a revision filed before the Financial
 Commissioner. What can be said in answer to this question is that there are
 conflicting judicial dictums on the subject. Some judicial pronouncements lay
 down that Section 12 of the Land Revenue Act which includes within its ambit,
 scope and purview, a revision also, prescribes a period within which a revision
 can be filed by a party aggrieved of an order passed in a mutation by an officer
 subordinate to the Financial Commissioner. On the contrary, there are judgments
 of law which hold that the powers of the Financial Commissioner in revision
 petitions are unfettered and a revision can be entertained by the Financial
 Commissioner at any point of time under Section 15 of the Land Revenue Act. 10. Section 15 of the Land Revenue Act envisages and encompasses a situation where
 the Financial Commissioner can exercise suo moto powers in a revision and in
 this behalf the judicial opinion in some of decided cases is that it is only where the
 Financial Commissioner exercises the suo moto powers that the law of Limitation
 does not apply but where a party knocks at the door of the competent authority,
 i.e., Financial Commissioner by filing a revision, the law of limitation has its
 application both in vigor and rigor in view of what is postulated and provided
 under Section 12 of the land Revenue Act. 11. Be that as it may, and assuming, but not admitting that the law of limitation does
 not apply to a revision petition filed before the Financial Commissioner, the
 question simplicitor is whether the Financial Commissioner can exercise such a
 power after a great lull of 55 years approximately from the date of the attestation
 of the mutations in a case like the present one and the answer to it should be a big
 "No" in view of the logical interpretation of this aspect of the case by the
 Supreme Court of India in the law laid down in the case of Joint Collector
 Ranga Reddy District & Anr. Vs. D. Narsing Rao & others , (2015) 3 SCC
 695, wherein it has been held as under: "12.1 In the decision in State of Gujarat vs. Patil Raghav Natha , this Court while
 adverting to Sections 65 and 211 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 held that
 though there is no period of limitation prescribed under Section 211 to revise an
 order made under Section 65 of the Act, the said power must be exercised in
 reasonable time and on the facts of the case in which the decision arose, the power
 came to be exercised more than one year after the order and that was held to be too
 late. 12.2 In the decision in Mohamad Kavi Mohamad Amin vs. Fatmabai Ibrahim, this
 Court while dealing with Section 84-C of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural
 Lands Act, 1976 held that though the said Section does not prescribe for any
 time limit for initiation of proceeding such power should be exercised within a
 reasonable time and on the facts of the case, the suo motu enquiry initiated
 under the said Section after a period of nine months was held to be beyond
 reasonable time. 12.3 In the decision in Santoshkumar Shivgonda Patil vs. Balasaheb Tukaram
 Shevale , this Court while dealing with the power of revision under Section 257
 of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966 held as follows (SCC pp. 356-57,
 paras 11-12). 12.4 In the decision in State of Punjab vs. Bhatinda District Cooperative Milk
 Producers Union Ltd. , this Court while dealing with the revisional power under Section 21 of the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948 held thus : (SCC p 367,
 paras 17-19)/

 "17. A bare reading of Section 21 of the Act would reveal that
 although no period of limitation has been prescribed therefor, the
 same would not mean that the suo motu power can be exercised at any
 time. 18. It is trite that if no period of limitation has been prescribed,
 statutory authority must exercise its jurisdiction within a reasonable period.
 What, however, shall be the reasonable period would depend upon the nature
 of the statute, rights and liabilities thereunder and other relevant factors. 19. Revisional jurisdiction, in our opinion, should ordinarily be
 exercised within a period of three years having regard to the purport in terms
 of the said Act. In any event, the same should not exceed the period of five
 years................" 12.5 In the decision in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham vs. K.
 Suresh Reddy , this Court while dealing with suo motu power of revision under Section 50-B(4) of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Tenancy and
 Agricultural Land Act, 1950 held as follows : (SCC pp. 676-77, para 9). 17. In the light of what is stated above we are of the view that the Division Bench of
 the High Court was right in affirming the view of the learned Single Judge of the
 High Court that the suo motu revision undertaken after a long lapse of time, even in
 the absence of any period of limitation was arbitrary and opposed to the concept of
 rule of law. 25. The legal position is fairly well settled by a long line of decisions of this Court
 which have laid down that even when there is no period of limitation prescribed for
 the exercise of any power, revisional or otherwise, such power must be exercised
 within a reasonable period. This is so even in cases where allegations of fraud have
 necessitated the exercise of any corrective power. 26. In one of the earlier decisions of this Court in S. B. Gurbaksh Singh v. Union of
 India , this Court held that exercise of suo motu power of revision must also be
 within a reasonable time and that any unreasonable delay in the exercise may affect
 the validity. But what would constitute reasonable time would depend upon the facts
 of each case. 27. To the same effect is the decision of this Court in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk
 Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy , wherein this Court held that even in
 cases of fraud the revisional power must be exercised within a reasonable period
 and that several factors need to be kept in mind while deciding whether relief should
 be denied only on the ground of delay. The Court said: (SCC p. 677, para9). 28. To the same effect is the view taken by this Court in Sulochana Chandrakant
 Galande v. Pune Municipal transport, wherein this Court reiterated the legal
 position and held that the power to revise orders and proceedings cannot be
 exercised arbitrary and interminably. This Court observed: (SCC p. 476, para 28). 29. In State of H.P. v. Rajkumar Brijender Sing , this Court held that in the absence
 of any special circumstances a delay of 15 years in suo motu exercise of revisional
 power was impermissible as the delay was unduly long and unexplained. This Court
 observed: (SCC pp. 588-89, para6). 30. We may also refer to the decision of this Court in Dehri Rohtas Light Railway
 Co. Ltd. v. District Board, Bhojpur , wherein the Court explained the legal position
 as under: (SCC pp. 602-03, para 13). 31. To sum up, delayed exercise of revisional jurisdiction is frowned upon because if
 actions or transactions were to remain forever open to challenge, it will mean
 avoidable and endless uncertainty in human affairs, which is not the policy of law.
 Because, even when there is no period of limitation prescribed for exercise of such
 powers, the intervening delay, may have led to creation of third-party rights, that
 cannot be trampled by a belated exercised of a discretionary power especially when
 no cogent explanation for the delay is in sight. Rule of law it is said must run closely
 with the rule of life. Even in cases where the orders sought to be revised are
 fraudulent, the exercise of power must be within a reasonable period of the
 discovery of fraud. Simply describing an act or transaction to be fraudulent will not
 extend the time for its correction to infinity; for otherwise the exercise of revisional
 power would itself be tantamount to a fraud upon the statue that vests such power in
 an authority. 12. The judicial precedent cited above does not support or reiterate the view that a
 person who is slack, callous and remiss in rolling the law in his favour at the
 opportune time can do so after a great deal of time subject to his whims and
 caprice. If such a situation is allowed to prevail, it will open a flood gate for
 uncalled litigations which cannot be controlled by the authorities while hearing
 and determining the revisions. Such a view, that a person filing a revision can do
 so at his will at any moment of time without spelling out reasons as to why he
 waited for pursuing the action for such a long time which did not meet the test of
 reasonability will lead to disastrous consequences. Taking the instant case, as an
 example it is repeated and reiterated here that, the respondent No.3 on attaining
 the age of 60 years filed a revision petition before the Court under the plea that he
 did not have the knowledge of the attestation of the mutations which on the face
 of it seems to be an incorrect version and accounts of events. In case any fraud
 was played with him he could have filed the revision immediately after attaining
 the age of majority. The petitioner before the Financial Commissioner, i.e.,
 respondent No.3 herein, on attaining the age of majority could have assailed the
 mutations in a revision before the Financial Commissioner. He has maintained a
 complete silence regarding his age in response to the petition of the petitioner
 herein as well as in the affidavit though he was obliged to do so and during this
 period of more than five decades a lot of water has flown down the Gangas i.e.
 not only third party interest has been created from time to time in respect of the
 estate of Jamal-ud-Din to which he too has been a party as he too has sold the
 land to the tune of 4 Kanals in favour of Gh. Ahmad as is visible from the
 mutation No. 351 detailed herein before, but mutation Nos.542, 217, 396, 325 and
 470 have also been attested. The respondent No.3, i.e., the petitioner in the
 revision petition before the learned Financial Commissioner, has also agreed to
 sell 1 Kanal and 2½ Marlas of land out of land bearing Khasra No.192 to Ayoub
 Gojar, petitioner No.1 herein, by virtue of an agreement, dated 28.09.1998,
 attached as Annexure-E to the petition, All these mutations have been given effect
 to in the annual records and the record of rights, which fact has not been denied OWP No.184/2015 Page 12 of 15 by the petitioner before the Financial Commissioner and the respondent No.3
 being the co-sharer and a close relative of the petitioner cannot be heard saying
 after a gap of long time that he was oblivious of the attestation of these mutations. 13. If a statute does not prescribe the time limit for the exercise of revisional power,
 that will not give the authority determining the matter, the teach to unsettle an
 order after a long time of 55 years. The power has to be exercised within a
 reasonable time as per the law laid down in (2007) 11 SCC 363 and ordinarily it
 can be exercised within a period of three years and in no case beyond a period of
 five years even where fraud is alleged. The creation of third party interest in the
 case, the passage of considerable time, from the date of the attestation of the
 mutations, change of hands by subsequent bona fide transfers are the factors that
 have to be taken into consideration and had to be given due weight while
 exercising the revisional powers. 14. Looking at the petition of the petitioner from another perspective that is the
 application of Shariat Act of 2007 in light of the law laid down by this Court in
 LPA No.07/2010 titled " Ahad Sheikh v. Murad Ahmad Shah & others , on
 which the learned Financial Commissioner has put explicit reliance in carving out
 a case for the petitioner before him, it needs must be said that the Shariat Act came into force in the year 2007 and it reads as under: 15. The question whether this Act is prospective or retrospective in nature is no
 longer res. Integra. The fact that cannot be lost sight of it is that it applies to the
 suits and the proceedings which were pending as on the date when the Act came
 into force and it also applies to the suits and the proceedings filed after that. What
 is to be understood is that the mutation proceedings are summary in nature and a
 Mutating Officer and the Financial Commissioner are the Quasi Judicial
 Authorities. The mutation is a fiscal entry. It does not confer any title on any
 person and it is made for the upgradation of the records. The question of title is
 open to be decided by the civil Courts and the logic behind the judgment of law
 cited by the learned Financial Commissioner in his order in incorporating the
 words "Suits and Proceedings" pending on the date of the operation of the Act or
 filed thereafter seems to be to give the parties the right to agitate and settle their
 grievance in the civil Courts. 16. The import of the application of Shariat Act, 2007, makes it abundantly clear that
 from the date of its promulgation that is the year 2007, all questions detailed in Section 3 have to be decided and determined under the Muslim Personal Law
 (Shariat), where the parties are Muslims. The mutations here in this case have
 been attested a long back, that is, in the year 23.09.1959. The judicial precedent
 cited by the learned Financial Commissioner, in his order, lays in unequivocal
 terms that the Act will apply to all the suits and proceedings which were pending
 on the date when the Act came into force as also to the suits and proceedings filed
 after its enforcement. The suits and proceedings which have been finally decided
 would not be affected by the enactment of the Shariat Act , but if such a suit and
 proceedings will be pending even in appeal on the date when the Act was brought
 into operation, the application of law to such a case will be the Muslim Personal
 Law, if the other conditions prescribed therein are fulfilled. 17. There is no doubt in saying that the Shariat Act, 2007, will apply to all the
 mutations that are attested after the enactment of the Shariat Act 2007, but on the
 plain phraseology of the Act, it will not apply to a mutation which has been
 attested a long before it came into operation. Suits and proceedings as stated in
 the judgment encompass within its operation and scope the suits filed before the
 Civil Courts and the proceedings emanating there from like the execution
 petitions, appeals or the proceedings initiated in the suit itself. The word "Suit" as
 defined in the West's Encyclopedia of American law edition 2 is a generic term,
 of comprehensive significance, referring to any proceedings by one person or
 persons against another or others in a Court of law in which the plaintiff pursues
 the remedy that the law affords for the redress of any injury or the enforcement of
 a right, whether at law or in Equity. A mutation is a fiscal entry and may be a
 prima facie proof of the possession of the estate by the person in whose favour it
 is attested. It does not as is repeated here decide the title which has to be decided
 by the Civil Court. 18. In view of the proceeding analysis, the petition is allowed, as a corollary to which,
 the impugned order of the learned Financial Commissioner passed in file No.
 290/FC-AP dated 28.01.2015 is set aside. The private respondents have sought the
 enforcement of their right in a Civil Court where they have instituted a suit, a
 copy of which is attached to the petition and the same shall be decided by the trial
 Court on its own merits without being influenced by any observation made here in
 this order. (M. K. Hanjura)
 Judge
 Srinagar
 14.03.2018
 "Manzoor"