SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Serious trust issues with UPI payments
DATE: 2025-03-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1jl1baz/serious_trust_issues_with_upi_payments/

--- POST TEXT ---

There is no doubt that UPI payment has been revolutionary for India. But a recent experience I had with a UPI payment, when I was on outstation trip, made me question if I can put my full trust in this payment method.

I made lots of UPI payment on this trip ranging from Rs20 to Rs5000. But a payment of Rs900 that I made to a cab driver got stuck and showed pending status on GPay. I got an amount debited SMS from my Bank but GPay app was stuck at payment processing (some message that said "its taking time to confirm"). I waited for 2-3mins but even after multiple refresh of the app the payment status was still processing. 
I paid the driver in cash and with a verbal commitment that he will send back the amount incase he gets it in his bank. Came back to the hotel and looked at GPay help which told me to wait for 3 days. I came back to Delhi, checked the payment status again and it showed successful!

Now I am stuck at the mercy of the driver if and when he returns the money. Maybe he will, maybe he won't. I am not too worried about my Rs900. I will followup with him 2-3 times but will move on with my life.

However, this made me question that UPI has no inherent mechanism to handle these rare payment glitches. No fraud or mistake took place here. A glitch happened, I made the payment outside the platform and both parties went their own ways. 

A glitch can happen with any technical platform. But next time I make a UPI payment, how will I know that the same glitch won't repeat. Maybe next time I won't be this lucky (if I can even give this event that title) and amount will dent a serious hole in my pocket.

I never had this issue with debit or credit cards. I got refunds 1-2 days whenever a glitch took place.

Maybe UPI needs to have an intermediary in place where whenever a glitch like this occurs the payer/buyer repeats the same payment but to the intermediary and if UPI payment fails then payee/seller is paid by this intermediary else on success it refunds the amount to payer. 

Do I have to revert to the good-ol ways of cash which our parents swear by? Suddenly the tables have turned in this risk vs convenience battle (atleast for me).