SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Heads up. Another day, another scam…
DATE: 2024-02-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1b16b7c/heads_up_another_day_another_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Posting this as an FYI so people can be careful.

Got another automated / IVR call claiming to be from ICICI Bank asking to pay my outstanding credit card bill worth 1.4L. Press 0 to talk to a customer service executive.

I already knew it was a scam because 1. It was a regular number (+91 8174-336529). 2. I don’t have any kind of account with ICICI Bank.

I pressed 0 and on comes Ramesh Kumar Yadav. I tell him I got a call and need more details about this so-called account.
He asks me to give my name and DoB to confirm my account details. I give him a fake name and fake DoB and he says yes ma’am I can see here that you have an account with us with an outstanding “balance” of 1.4L.

I say I don’t know about this account, so please block the card. He says ma’am you will need to file an FIR for that, I can get someone from cybercrime on the line immediately. 

I asked why do I need an FIR to block a card to which he says this is the procedure and you need to do this asap as someone is misusing your information, to which I said “yes, you”.

He paused for a second and then jumped right back in to how I need to file FIR immediately. To which I switched to Hindi and told him why don’t you get a job instead of scamming people.

He says Ma’am I’m not a scammer, you can check online my name is Ramesh Yadav and I work for ICICI Bank. I did Google while on call with him and the first two search results are of two people with that name who work at ICICI Bank. Nice touch.

But I went back into don’t you feel bad about scamming people but he stood his ground till the end saying that they will do anything to recover my outstanding dues whether I’m using the card or not cz it’s on my name and I can solve the issue by simply talking to someone at cybercrime immediately via them.

Hats off to him for pushing till the end even though I’d already told him that I know it’s a scam.

A few months back I had gotten the FedEx “your courier has been stopped at Mumbai airport” scam.

Basically, beware everyone. And make sure you let the elders in your house know of every new scam you hear about.