Less than 40% of community notes drafted in South Asian languages on X meet the visibility criteria, compared to over 65% success rate for those in English, according to research by the Centre for the Study of Organised Hate (CSOH). This failure arises from poor note quality and low reviewer density, the organisation contends. Accordingly, this shortfall allows rumours to circulate for long periods without any additional context, thereby creating an information gap between English-speaking users and others.

Community Notes (formerly known as Birdwatch) on X is a crowdsourced fact-checking feature enabling users to add contextual notes to misleading posts. Any individual with a longstanding, verified account on the platform is eligible to become a “contributor”, while newcomers begin as raters. Before being published, notes first enter an internal queue where other contributors classify them as “helpful”, “somewhat helpful”, or “not helpful”.

Later, notes with over a 40% helpfulness rating are published. Alternatively, the algorithm applies a “bridging” rule, where it checks whether the people who liked the note usually disagree with other notes. Notably, CSOH classifies this requirement as “arbitrary” and violative of how neutral community notes should function.

CSOH’s analysis was based on the finding that South Asian individuals account for over 4.9% of X’s active monthly users. For its study, the organisation analysed approximately 1.85 million community notes in languages such as Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, Marathi, Gujarati, Sindhi, and Odia over a year.

Underrepresentation of South Asian languages: Only 1,737 or 0.094% of the total community notes were written in South Asian languages. During the analysis period, CSOH found 874 notes in Hindi, 479 in Urdu, 183 in Tamil, and so forth. The delayed rollout of Community Notes to South Asian markets, stringent contributor eligibility requirements, and language barriers—such as the interface and guide being available only in English—have limited its penetration.

High-quality notes don’t reach the public eye: The organisation disclosed that “high-quality notes in lower-coverage languages or regions can languish unseen, not for lack of rigour, but because the publication rules assume an even global distribution of raters that does not yet exist.” To explain, for notes to become visible, an equal number of individuals must agree and disagree with them, ensuring a diverse range of perspectives. Citing an example, CSOH observed that despite the addition of a community note deemed “helpful” by many contributors on a post containing a false claim by a political party, the note remained invisible due to a lack of differing perspectives. Meanwhile, the misleading post racked up greater viewership, highlighting an uneven mechanism of correcting misinformation.

Activity surges during election week: Community contributors authored 30% more weekly notes during political events like elections than during normal periods, the organisation found. These notes primarily addressed claims about candidates, parties, voter fraud rumours, and viral propaganda.

Promoting political and harmful content: Over 46% of the South Asian language notes analysed related to political content, and 4.5% of these notes contained harmful or divisive material. Besides this, bias percolated certain notes, reflecting their “partisan misuse and challenge to neutrality in linguistically and politically polarised environments.” Further, CSOH explained that notes sometimes enable the misrepresentation of harmful speech as helpful context, and in certain cases, add political context to further a particular rhetoric.

The organisation contends that these findings plague the integrity of Community Notes in South Asia, highlighting concerns of bias, moderation, and safety. On the latter, it claims that while X removes posts containing harmful content for infringing platform policies, community notes with extremely negative or harassing language often remain visible. This also raises questions about the oversight mechanism governing such notes.

Consequently, CSOH prescribed the following suggestions to improve coverage and neutrality in the region:

Upon the formal launch of Community Notes in India in April 2024, MediaNama highlighted several concerns with its functioning. For example, the feature could be easily misused by IT cells, which may direct troll networks to amplify disruptive notes. Alternatively, Community Notes could mislead the public in situations where facts are still unclear—such as the number of deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Recently, tech giant Meta suspended third-party fact-checking and adopted a Community Notes-like model. However, as platforms shift to crowdsourced models, issues like ideological battles, lack of objectivity and consistency, and the furthering of misinformation remain persistent challenges.

In a different vein, X recently launched a program allowing AI bots to create Community Notes. During the pilot stage, AI contributors can only add notes on posts with specific requests and must earn the ability to write them. X contends that such notes will be clearly labelled and could help increase the efficiency of note publishing. However, the platform claims that humans will remain in charge of the overall process.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event