1. Proceedings in this matter have been initiated suo motu based on

captioned media report to the effect that six persons died in an explosion

at a chemical factory - Om Organic, at Dahej GIDC, District Bharuch,

Gujarat. Fire broke out at 1.00 AM on 12.4.2022 followed by the

explosion. Blast was heard upto 1 Km. away. Ex-gratia compensation of

Rs. 2 Lakhs each is said to have been declared from the PMNRF to the

heirs of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 for the injured. 2. The Tribunal first considered the matter vide order dated

12.04.2022. It was observed that questions of compliance of

environmental safety norms, liability to compensate the heirs of the

deceased and for damage to environment and steps for prevention of

such incidents in future were required to be gone into. Accordingly, a

five-Member Committee of CPC B, State PCB, District Magistrate, 1 Bharuch, Director, Industrial Safety Gujarat and State Disaster

 Management Authority was constituted to visit the site, ascertain the

 cause of incident, extent of loss, quantum of compensation required to be

 paid and steps to prevent such incidents and to give a report to this

 Tribunal a copy of which was also to be served on the PP. The operative

 part of the order is reproduced below:- O.A. No. 107/2020, In Re: News item published in the local daily "Indian Express Sunday Express" O.A. No. 60/2021, In Re: News item published in the Hindu dated 23.02.2021 titled "Two dead, 5
missing in fire at UPL Plant" holders. It may also be ascertained whether earlier directions of this
 Tribunal on the subject have been acted upon by the Chief
 Secretary, Gujarat and other authorities in the State. 4. The Authorities may also put the Project Proponent (PP)
 to notice of these proceedings for its response, if any, before
 the next date. The joint Committee may also simultaneously
 give a copy of the report to the PP. This order is without
 prejudice to liability under the criminal or any other law. A factual
 and action taken report in the matter may be filed within two
 months by e-mail at [email protected] preferably in the form of
 searchable PDF/ OCR Support PDF and not in the form of Image
 PDF." 3. In response to the above, report of the joint Committee has been

filed on 22.07.2022. It mentions holding of meetings of the joint

Committee, visit to the site, interaction with the representatives of the

PP, collection of the information relating to the incident and deliberations

about the quantum of compensation. Relevant extracts from the report

are as follows:- 4.0 THE ACCIDENT, EFFECTS AND CONSEQUENCES

4.1. To ascertain cause of incident. 3.1.1. Cause of incident reported by the unit

As informed by the unit, the explosion may have occurred due to
increase in temperature of the Reactor No. 105 during
distillation of dimethyl formamide spent solvent. 3.1.2. Cause of incident reported by DISH

  In reactor no. 105, before charging of new batch on
 09.04.2022, it may be possible that residue to previous
 batch not removed properly as there was no cleaning SOP
 in existence at the time of accident. Dimethyl formamide
 recovery from distillate residue require significant caution.
 The high temperature decomposition of dimethyl formamide
 and its incompatibility with various halogens, bases and
 acids is established. Recovery from spent solvent after each
 batch require proper cleaning to avoid unwanted chemical
 reaction of incompatible material and decomposition of any
 of its component. If residue of previous batch remain
 present in reactor R 105 and charging new batch in same
 reactor may increase the volume of the batch size which
 may led to increase in temperature and cause explosion
 and fire (Annexure XIV). 3.1.3. Cause of accident as per the Joint Committee

The committee visited the site and collected information from the
industry representative, neighbouring industries, officers from various
authorities like DISH, GPCB those visited the industry immediately
after the accident etc. Based on the available information sequence of
event and probable reasons of accident are detailed below. 4.1.3.1 Sequence of events 4  At the time of explosion 4 reactors were operational.
 Mixed solvent brought from M/s Ami Life Sciences,
 Vadodara was being distilled in reactor No. 101 and
 Reactor No. 103. Dimethyl formamide (DMF) brought from
 M/s Intas Pharma, Ahmedabad was under distillation in
 reactor No. 104 and reactor no. 105.  As per CCTV footage from (about 00:45 hours till fire
 fighting started), there was activity at first floor which
 may be for addressing leakage/ fume as minor fume and
 bright light observed at this location which gradually
 intensified before blast. Minor fuming at the first floor
 above the reactor No. 104 and reactor No. 105 near the
 distillation column bottom was also observed in CCTV
 footage. Information from security personnel of M/s Mane
 India Pvt. Ltd. present at the time of accident was
 collected over telephone as he could not be personally
 approached. The security guard informed that some
 metallic sound and shouting of workers were noticed
 before blast.  At about 00:47:09 hours, a flash of fire observed at
 reactor level which was followed by explosion in Reactor
 No. 105 and falling down of reactor no. 104.
  Huge amount of fume and fire spread in all directions. Fire
 continued for more than half an hour unattended.
 Thereafter firefighting was started at around 01:17 hours. 4.1.3.2. Probable reasons of fire

  Operational data related to reactor and distillation column,
 receiver material levels, P&ID diagram and design details of
 reactor and distillation column, etc. asked during visit was
 not made available by the unit. Pressure relief valve/
 rupture disc was not observed by the team on damaged
 reactor No. 104 and also not found. Absence of data of
 temperature and pressure, exact reason for explosion and
 nature of explosion (thermal instability, impurity build up,
 water ingress, chocking, pressure build up, etc.) could not be
 established. The committee deliberated the issue and
 concludes that even if the safety vent were available, it
 might not operate on pressure build up.  Dimethyl formamide recovery from distillation residue
 requires significant caution. The high temperature
 decomposition of dimethyl formamide and its incompatibility
 with various halogens, bases and acids is established (eg.
 Organic Process Research & Development 2019, 23, pages
 1586−1601, 2210-2217 and other literature sources). Any
 recovery of dimethyl formamide requires monitoring and
 control of pressure and temperature as the decomposition of
 dimethyl formamide is generally exothermic. Literature
 shows that recovery from spent solvent after each
 batch require proper cleaning to avoid any unwanted
 chemical reaction of incompatible material and
 decomposition of any of its component. The
 information/ SOP in this regard was not made
 available by the unit.  It was informed by the unit during visit that the plant is
 operated manually. It was observed that pressure and
 temperature devices were installed in Reactor No.101,
 Reactor No.102, and Reactor No.103. However, no proper
 provision for emergency removal of material from reactor/
 column was observed. It was also informed that reaction
 conditions (pressure, temperature, load, etc.) were
 maintained manually. It was also inferred from the
 discussion that training of plant operators was
 inadequate to handle such sensitive operations. Thus,
 technically incompetent operators/ helpers were not
 deployed by the unit management.  Based on circumstantial information and CCTV footage, it
 is inferred that blast was mainly caused due to increase in
 temperature which resulted in thermal decomposition of
 dimethyl formamide and hence increase in pressure
 leading to blast. Sittings Handbook of Toxic and
 Hazardous chemicals and Carcinogens (6th edition) has
 clearly warned about the violent reactions of DMF. A closed
 cup flash point of DMF is 600C. It can be said that temperature increase may have been
 caused due to fire triggered from spark while addressing
 leakage/ fume which would have caught by the flammable
 liquid. Orange to reddish illumination observed in CCTV
 footage also at the first floor above reactor height and red
 flash observed on reactor before blast. CCTV footage is
 attached in a CD. From the video footage, it was seen that fire spread all along the
reactor side towards M/s M/s. Sitamani Organics Pvt. Ltd. and M/s
Mane India Pvt. Ltd. but not significantly spread towards boiler area
of the unit because reactor No. 5 was ruptured almost opposite to the
boiler area

4.2 To ascertain extent of loss of living beings and
compensation require

Explosion occurred at midnight at about 00:47:09 hours on
11.04.2022as found from CCTV footage collected from M/s. Mane India
Pvt. Ltd. Industries and firefighting started at about 01:17 hours. Fire
was controlled by 5:00 hours in the morning. The unit has not
installed CCTV and hence, the activities before or after the
explosion within the premises is not available. Records of
manufacturing were also reported as destroyed. Effect of the
blast on neighbouring industries was observed which included
breaking of window glass and glass panels, cracks in walls &
POP false ceiling etc. The committee has explored various aspects
like referring to available literatures, documents/ records submitted by
the unit, interactions with various officials of the unit, report submitted
by DISH, internal investigation report submitted by the unit, safety
aspects, inputs from the experts etc. for analysis of the probable cause
of the accident. CCTV footage of nearby Industry was obtained and
examined which shows that initially explosion happened and then fire
spread. Altogether 08 persons were working in the plant at the time 6 of explosion. Six workers in the area reportedly lost their lives. The
workers who lost their lives are as under based on the information
from Police Department (Annexure-II). The fire spread in reactor area as well as in raw material and finished
goods area. PVC drums kept adjacent to the explosion site were by and
large burnt. An area of about 11m × 24m and 6m × 12m area was
having mark of drum bottom which was counted. It is observed that
more than 220 solvent and spent solvent drums of 220 litre
capacity each was burnt in the accident. The amount of solvents
burnt during the explosion and fire is given in Table-3. Table 3 Solvents burnt during the explosion and fire

 Name of mixed
 Storage Quantity (kgs)
 solvent
 Mix Solvent Drums 15400
 Mix Solvent Drums 14960
 IPA Drums 8800
 Ethyl Acetate Drums 6600
 Mix Solvent Reactor 7000
 Mix Solvent Reactor 6000
 DMF Reactor 6000
 DMF Reactor 6000
 Mix Solvent Tank 18000
 Mix Solvent Tank 15000
 Butanol Drums 4400
 Total quantity lost 1,08,160 kg

The finished goods stored underground near main gate was saved
from fire. Several drums were observed inside a shed adjacent to boiler
which was neither damaged nor burnt. It was informed that, at the
time of explosion dimethyl formamide spent solvent distillation was
going on. Reactor No. 104placed adjacent to Reactor No. 105 was also
damaged. The control room at first floor and other surrounding area
was destroyed in explosion and fire. However, area near reactor No.
101, reactor No. 102, reactor No. 103 and 2 ton per hour solid fuel fired
boiler was having less damages but their electrical and other panels
completely burnt. The plant structure, RCC beams and columns, etc.
were severely damaged. The blast was of such intensity, that the iron
pieces blown out approximate more than 125 meter away from the
blast site in the premises of M/s. Sitamani Organics Pvt. Ltd. 4.3 Damage caused due to accident 7 Following damages are recorded by various authorities due to blast
and fire accident. 1. Six workers lost their lives. 2. Reactor No. 105 was completely destroyed and part of
 distillation column was also destroyed. 3. Atleast 108160 kg spent solvent and finished goods destroyed
 and its smoke emitted into the atmosphere. 4. About 133.1 KL water and about 1.0 KL foam was used to
 control the fire. Water and foam mixed with spent solvent!
 finished goods contaminated the soil in the plant premises and
 in the premise of M!s Sitamani Organics Pvt. Ltd. The samples of
 accumulated wastewater due to fire fighting and contaminated
 soil were collected by GPCB after the accident. The analysis
 results are given as Annexure-III. From the analysis results, it
 may be seen that COD of firefighting water accumulated on
 ground was as high as 41,927 mg!l. The concentration of COD in
 contaminated soil was 142 g!kg which is significantly higher
 than the COD concentration in reference (uncontaminated) soil
 collected from surrounding (0.24 g! kg). These results indicate
 significant contamination of soil due to solvents. 5. Partial damage inside M/s Mane India Pvt. Ltd. occurred due
 to solvent splashing and blast shock waves. 6. Large amount of solvent is burnt (Photograph-8) which led to
 emission of VOCs, CO2, particulate matter and other harmful
 gaseous compounds in air. There is no water body near the
 plant, hence no significant surface water contamination is
 envisaged. 5.0 Action taken by the local agencies. Subsequent to the fire, local Fire and Safety department officials,
GPCB Officials and Police reached to the site and measures were
taken. 5.1 Action Taken by DISH

Subsequent to the telephonic information received, DISH officials
reached the site to review the situation. Accordingly, DISH issued
closure order vide letter No. DISH/Bharuch/2022/813-815 dated
11/04/2022 (Annexure-IV). 5.2 Action taken by GPCB

GPCB officials based on telephonic information reached the site at
around 05:00 hours and reviewed the situation. Subsequently
monitoring of volatile organic compounds (VOC), wastewater
accumulated on land and nearby soil were carried out. GPCB issued
closure directions to the unit u/s 31-A of the Air Act, 1981 vide No.
GPCB/BRCH-B/CTE-519/ID-62910/659406 dated 12/04/2022 &
u/s 33- A of the Water Act, 1974 vide No. GPCB/BRCH-B/CTE-519/ID-
62910/659407 dated 12/04/2022. Based on the findings, GPCB
imposed interim compensation of Rs. 25.0 lakhs which is yet to be paid
by the unit. 5.3 Police Department

Dahej Police station has registered the accidental death case vide
P.S.A. Death No.18/2022 u/s 174 of Criminal Procedure Code
(Annexure-V) and prepared detailed 'Panchnama' of accidental
location in vernacular language Gujarati (Annexure-VI). As per
'Panchnama', death of six persons is reported. 6.0 Compensation paid
As per the available information, the unit has paid ex gratia of
Rs.3,00,000/- for each deceased and disbursed the same among the
dependents of the family. In addition Ex Gratia of Rs. 2,00,000 is
paid from PMNRF. 6.1 To ascertain extent of loss to the environment and
compensation required
 A. Gaseous emission to ambient air
Based on available information, it was gathered that pure/ raw
Dimethyl formamide, Isopropyl alcohol, Ethyl acetate and Butanol were
burnt. Besides this, mixed solvent is also burnt. The industry informed
that data pertaining to the constituent of mixed solvent burnt in fire are
not available. Hence based on alternate source i.e. the industry from
which the unit procured mixed solvent for distillation, it is gathered that
mixed solvent was composed of Methanol (19.9%), Acetone (47.9%), IPA
(30.93%) and 1.27% as other constituents. By and large, the burnt
material contained carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Combustion of
chemicals may have led to generation and release of gaseous
pollutants namely oxides of nitrogen (NOx), and carbon di-oxide
(CO2). Besides, when fire-fighting water containing solvents is
released in to natural environment, there are three possible fates of
such chemicals: Estimation of amount of solvents vaporized

The volatilization of a volatile organic liquid from a surface depends on
vapour pressure of compound, wind speed, and the ambient
temperature. The volatility of a volatile organic liquid from a surface
may be estimated by the following method. Organic compound volatilized (kg/h/m2) = 0.00116xMWxPxW0.625
Eqn. 1 (Source: Evaporation Rate of volatile liquids, USEPA, 1989)

Where, W = wind speed in ft/min, P = vapor pressure of compound
in inch Hg, MW = molecular weight of compound in gram. It is important to note that the volatilization of a compound from a
 mixture is higher than that in its pure form. The actual volatilization
 may be more than that estimated as shown in Table-4. The wind speed at Dahej on 11-04-22 was noted to be 15 km/h
 which can be estimated to be around 9.2 km/h at 2 m height from
 ground level. It is difficult to estimate the surface area from where
 the volatilization occurs; however, it was observed by GPCB team
 that the firefighting water along with solvents spread over a large
 area encompassing some area of adjoining unit namely M/s.
 Sitamani Organics Pvt. Ltd. A surface area of 400 m2 was estimated
 where solvent splash and firefighting water spread observed on
 land. The firefighting lasted for about 4 hours hence a conservative
 estimate of the time of volatilization was considered as 02 hours
 because during the initial period significant volatile emission due to
 fire in night hours would have taken place and later the burning of
 material resulting into prominent emission of CO2 and NOx. Based
 on the above information, the amounts of some of the compounds
 volatilized having lower vapour pressure (butanol, DMF, IPA) was
 estimated using Eq. 1 as given in Table -4. Also, CO2 and NOx
 generation due to burning of the remaining quantities of solvents is
 shown in Table-4. For computed high volatisation rate, it was
 considered that the material would have burnt in liquid and vapour
 phase. Table 4 Estimation of gaseous emission due to burning of
 material in fire

 CO2 NO2
 Quantity lost produced produced
 Total volatilization due to Quantity due to due to
 quantity lost, rate, volatilization burnt, burning, burning,
compound Formula kg kg/h/m2 , kg kg kg kg

DMF C3H7NO 12000 0.63 503.8 11496.2 20808.1 7242.6

IPA C3H8O 32418 9.36 7486.9 24931.1 54848.5 0.0
Ethyl
acetate C4H8O2 6600 23.54 0.0 6600.0 13200.0 0.0
butanol C4H10O 4400 2.43 1944.0 2456.0 5833.1 0.0
methanol CH4O 15195 11.65 0.0 15195.0 20893.1 0.0
acetone C3H6O 37546 29.06 0.0 37546.0 85229.4 0.0
 Total 108159 9934.6 200812.2 7242.6

 A-1. Estimation of Environmental Damage compensation
 For the economic cost calculation of damage related to emissions,
 earlier report submitted to Hon'ble National Green Tribunal in O.A.
 No. O.A. NO. 60/2021 and OA No. 22 of 2020 isreferred. It was
 observed that report in O.A. No. 60/2021 and OA No. 22 Of 2020
 considered Rs. 0.0225 Lakh/ MT of CO2 emissions and Rs. 2.1729
 lakh/ MT of NO2 emission for environmental damage compensation
 calculation. For NO2 emission, the reported cost in Hon'ble NGT OA
 No. 22 of 2020 was used. However, considering the fact that social
 cost of carbon emission is gradually increasing across the globe, 10 reliance is also made on various other scientific literature. The social
 cost of carbon (SCC) is a commonly employed metric of the expected
 economic damages from CO2 emissions. It represents the economic
 cost associated with climate damage (or benefit) that results from the
 emission of an additional tonne of CO2. One way to compute it is by
 taking the net present value of the difference between climate
 change damages along with a baseline climate change pathway and
 the same pathway with an additional incremental pulse release of
 CO2. The SCC provides an economic valuation of the marginal
 impacts of climate change. Country-level estimates can also allow us
 to better understand regional impacts, which are important for
 adaptation and compensation measures. One of the latest scientific
 publication is in the year 2018 in Nature Climate Change, 2018
 Volume, 8 by Katharine, et. al entitled "Country-level social cost of
 carbon" reported social cost of carbon dioxide emission [ Ref.: Table 5 Estimation of Damage value due to Air pollution
 caused by fire

Air Pollutants emitted CO2 NO2 Total volatilized solvents
(Tons)
 200.812 7.243 9.935
Damage cost per ton of Rs. Rs. emission (Rs.) 6,800.68 2,17,290/- Rs. 2,17,290/- Thus Rs. 50.99/- lakhs is calculated as environmental damage
 compensation due to emission in atmosphere. B. Water and Soil Component
 The explosion at the plant caused damage to the environment
 emission/discharge of pollutants on land. No nearby water body or
 nalla is situated at the location hence no contamination of any
 water body is envisaged. All the wastewater resulting from water 11 used for fire-fighting contained foam and the unburnt chemicals
eventually accumulated on open land as the wastewater reportedly
did not reach any natural water bodies. The committee calculated
the firefighting water used and subsequent steps taken by the unit
to calculate the damage to the environment for the water component.
As per the records available from GPCB and conversation with the
agencies whose firefighting arrangements were used, 134.1KL
water and foam was used during firefighting. When fire-fighting
water containing organic solvents is released on land, there are
atleast two possible fates of such chemical laden wastewater

 (1) The chemical dissolved in fire-fighting water can percolate
 in the soil causing land pollution and may contaminate
 groundwater. (2) A part of volatile chemicals (such as toluene which is less
 soluble) volatilized in air and cause air pollution. GPCB has carried out monitoring of accumulated wastewater on
ground in adjoining industry namely M/s. Sitamani Organics Pvt.
Ltd. The damage caused and the level of impact due to organic
pollutant released is evaluated in monetary terms by the Committee
considering the following factors:- Thus, Total amount of Rs. 120.16 Lakh is calculated for
 environmental damages of water and soil Component and Rs.
 50.99 lakh is calculated for damage due to gaseous emission in
 air totalling to Rs 171.15 lakh (Rupees One crore seventy one
 lakh fifteen thousand) is the environmental compensation for
 damage caused to the environment due to explosion and fire in
 M/s Om organics, Dahej. 6.3 To ascertain compensation required to the deceased
 person

 For the calculation of compensation amount for the personnel who
 lost their lives due to the unfortunate fire accident on 11th April
 2022, the Committee referred cases i.e. " Sarla Verma &
 Ors. Vs. Delhi Transport Corporation & Anr. ", " Sunita
 Tokas Vs. New India Insurance Co. Ltd. " and " Amrit Bhanu
 Shali & Ors. Vs. National Insurance Co. Ltd. & Ors. "
 considering the following components: third (1/3rd) where the number of dependent family members
 is 2 to 3, one-fourth(1/4 th) where the number of dependant
 family members is 4 to 6, and one-fifth (1/5 th ) where the
 number of dependant family members exceed six" and "Where
 the deceased was a bachelor and the claimants are the
 parents, the deduction follows a different principle. In regard
 to bachelors, normally, 50% is deducted as personal and
 living expenses, because it is assumed that a bachelor would
 tend to spend more on himself", 4. Multiplier: The committee has considered following criteria
 referring the judgement order of Sarla Verma &Ors Vs. Delhi
 Transport Corporation &Anr. , para 21, " We therefore hold
 that the multiplier to be used should be as mentioned in
 column (4) of the Table above (prepared by applying Susamma
 Thomas, Trilok Chandra and Charlie), which starts with an
 operative multiplier of 18 (for the age groups of 15 to 20 and
 21 to 25 years), reduced by one unit for every five years, that
 is M-17 for 26 to 30 years, M-16 for 31 to 35 years, M-15 for
 36 to 40 years, M-14 for 41 to45 years, and M-13 for 46 to 50
 years, then reduced by two units for every five years, that is,
 M-11 for 51 to 55 years, M-9 for 56 to 60 years, M-7 for 61 to
 65 years and M-5 for 66 to 70 years"  There were no records of mock drill carried by the unit
as emergency response procedure implementation.
 Online display board as per CC&A was not observed at the
main gate.  The unit has not given operational parameter detail
during the explosion event. Past details are also not
available. It may be inferred that plant may have been either
operated manually or pressure and temperature details of
operational distillation unit were maintained manually.
 Reactor No. 105 was completely destroyed in explosion and
reactor no. 104 was significantly damaged and get detached from
condenser. From Reactors, it was inferred that there was no
provision of either rupture disc or any pressure relief device in
reactors (Photograph-2 & Photograph-3).
 one shed for materials (finished goods and raw material drum)
and open space for raw material (spent solvent) and finished goods
storage. Open storage of flammable liquids in large quantity is not
safety compliant practice as some of the finished goods flash point is
near the summer ambient temperature (less than 450C).
 There was storage of material inside the shed. But proper
upkeep and adequate fire safety arrangement was not available
(Photograph-4).  The unit has not attempted to dispose the contaminated soil
due to spread of solvents and wastewater on land.
 The labelling of drums kept inside the shed was done with the
help of chalk (Photograph-5) instead of permanent marking.
 There were damages reported from nearby industry M/s Mane
India Pvt. Ltd. worth Rs. 62,54353/- (Annexure-VII). The industry
has written a letter for recovery/ compensation for damage to the
unit.  CPC B has issued integrated guidance framework for chemical
safety on 24.12.2021. According to the guideline, industry was
required to carry out safety audit once in a year which was not
carried out.  Color coding for pipelines containing hazardous chemical was
not provided which is evident from the pipeline provided with the
underground tank.  It appeared that the safety measures available at the
 unit were never utilized. As shown in photograph-6, the fire
 hydrant line is almost completely buried under the ash from boiler
 and not approachable at the time of firefighting. As shown in
 photograph-7, bird's nest was found in flame arresters indicating
 that they were never used for their intended purpose. 8.0 Recommendations for avoiding such incident in future

It is very clear that organic solvents either standalone or mixed are
flammable. Flash point is further get reduced in closed container. Thus,
any organic spent solvent recovery plant should have following measures. (i) Any organic solvent/ spent solvent handled should have
 proper MSDS mentioning flash point, name of incompatibility
 chemicals, etc. and the same should be known to the plant
 workers. (ii) Regular training to the worker about process details, process
 and safety (personnel and plant) is required. Training should
 include handling emergencies like leakage, abnormal
 temperature, pressure readings, increased emissions, pump
 failures, failure of air pollution control devices, shock loads
 or any other accidents likely to occur due to any activity
 within the premises. (iii) Emergency preparedness should be reviewed by plant
 management on routine basis. Mock drills must be
 conducted atleast in every six month and on induction of
 any new operator in the plant. For this, a mock drill
 calendar should be prepared. Mock drill should always be
 done under supervision of an expert person. Input on
 Observer on mock drill should be incorporated in emergency
 plan. (iv) All the pressure containing equipment should have pressure
 release provision. (v) Every solvent recovery plant should have Supervisory
 Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and Leak Detection
 and Repair (LDAR) systems. (vi) Seals, glands and gaskets shall be regularly inspected,
 without dismantling. Leak detectors should be provided for
 all piping, valves, seals, flanges, and other pertinent
 equipment. (vii) After each batch of distillation, the entire system should be
 thoroughly cleaned and inspected before start of new batch.
 SOP in this regard to be prepared and implemented. (viii) Flow meters, sensors, measuring devices have to be
 regularly calibrated and all process parameter monitor
 should have alert/ siren system. (ix) All pipework containing hazardous chemicals shall be
 identified by colour coding or labelling (as per standards
 notified by Bureau of Indian Standards) and shall be protected
 to prevent corrosion / damage. The practice to identify the
 parts of the system that contain gas or liquid and the
 direction of flow should be followed. (x) The distillation units shall install double valve system for
 taking samples during the process to minimize air ingress
 and provide interlocking arrangement for critical process
 parameter to shut down the process and/ or inject coolant in
 place of heat on reactor jackets. (xi) Flame arrestors, water curtains and adequate fire safety
 arrangements (fire hydrant, foam system, etc.) shall be
 installed. Spark / flame proof electrical fittings shall be
 installed. (xii) In no case any unit should be allowed to store petroleum
 class A or class B or Class C in open to sky area. (xiii) Suitable gas and VOC sensors alongwith alarm system
 should be installed in the unit at appropriate locations. (xiv) A system should be established having brief of operation
 done in a shift, no. of batches charged, product
 manufactured and problems encountered or suspected. (xv) After every training, training effectiveness should be
 evaluated for Operational Negligence, Operator fault, Lack of
 standard operating procedure for transfer of material from
 one reactor to another and on cleaning of reactors, lack of
 awareness of personnel on SOP's, non-compliance of SOP's by
 employees, Noncompliance of safety practices by employees,
 etc. For this purpose, training calendar and training
 feedback record should be maintained. Sensitization of
 workers for SOP adoption should be carried out and day-to-
 day practices regularly checked and record should be
 maintained. (xvi) The Regulatory Authorities shall take immediate action
 against erring industries as per prevailing Rules based on
 periodic inspections. In addition the Regulatory Authorities
 shall sensitize the industries about safety norms, industrial
 best practices, industry specific emission & effluent
 standards etc.
(xvii) Plant should be thoroughly inspected by the plant
 management regularly for short bolting, flange tightening,
 less number of nuts and bolts than required or designed,
 firefighting and plant personnel should be cross-checked for
 chemical stock, understanding of compatibility matrix of
 chemicals/ spent solvents, etc.
(xviii) The manpower of the DISH in the industrial area must be
 commensurate with the numbers of units in the area with
 proper training to improve the efficiency of DISH.
(xix) Annual safety audit from third party should be made
 mandatory for every plant and fie adequacy certificate
 should be made mandatory before operation of distillation
 plant. (xx) Distillation plants should have safe assembly points with
 signage, signage for safety evacuation and double staircase 20 (opposite to each other) for exiting from process area in case
 of emergency. 9.0 Actions taken by the Chief Secretary in similar matters

 A meeting was convened by Hon'ble Chief Secretary with various
 stakeholder departments and set of decisions were taken for the
 compliance of various orders of Hon'ble NGT in similar matters.
 The minutes of the meeting is attached as Annexure-VIII. 10.0 Observations of the Committee with respect to tasks assigned by
Hon'ble NGT

 Task assigned Observation of the Committee
Whether the unit was holding mock drills No.

 No mock drill evidence is available with
 the unit. Thus no mock drill exercise was
 practiced. As per onsite emergency plan
 page No. 35 (Annexure-IX), one mock drill
 in a year was required and as per CPC B
 guidelines (Annexure-X), mock drill
 should be conducted atleast at an
 interval of 6 months. Whether onsite and offsite emergency Yes.
plans was prepared by the unit
 Onsite emergency plan is prepared by the
 unit. However, the onsite emergency plan
 is more inclined towards communication
 during emergency rather than tackling
 emergency. The control measures for
 hazard control mentioned in onsite
 emergency plan like rupture disc,
 emergency shut down procedure, dyke
 wall, etc. were not provided by the unit. Whether the unit has taken insurance  Unit has taken workman compensation
policies and liability policies policy from IFFCO TOKIO GENERAL
 INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED, Policy
 No.43251397 for the period 21/01/2022
 to 20/01/2023 (Annexure-XI).  Unit has taken Public liability Insurance
 policy from Future General India
 Insurance Company Ltd. having Policy
 no: L0158783 which was expired on
 01.06.2022 i.e. on the date of accident, it
 has valid PLI (Annexure-XII). Whether the unit was having valid CTO Yes. and Authorizations under the
Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986. The unit has valid authorisation from
 GPCB vide CC&A order No. AWH-109868
 valid till 27/08/2025 (AnnexureXIII). However, CC&A conditions were not fully
 complied with. The non-compliances
 observed are excessive storage of
 materials in drums in open area, data
 display board at main gate, etc. 21 Visit of the Committee to the site to There was technical flaw in distillation
ascertain the cause of the incident system. Which may have resulted in fire
 spread and explosion and fire spread in
 upto the solvent storage area. Extent of loss to living beings due to As per the Police (Annexure-II), 06 plant
explosion and fire personnel died during explosion and fire. Two boiler operators working outside the
 distillation plant were saved. Entire
 distillation plant was damaged. Extent of loss to the environment The loss to the environment was due to
 emission of gases from fire, loss of water
 in firefighting, release of volatile
 compounds, and contamination of soil
 due to spread of firefighting water mixed
 with spilled organic materials. No
 wastewater contamination to any water
 body is envisaged. It is estimated
 stoichiometrically that 9934.6 kg solvents
 vapourised as VOCs, 200812.2 kg CO2
 and 7242.6 kg NO2 is emitted in
 atmosphere. Based on records of
 firefighting agencies, it is estimated that
 133.1 KL water and about 1.0 KL foam
 was used in firefighting which was
 spread on ground and contaminated the
 soil alongwith solvents/ organic
 chemicals. GPCB analysis report of
 accumulated wastewater and
 contaminated soil is attached as
 Annexure-III. Environmental compensation required A total of Rs. 50.99 lakh is calculated
 for damage due to gaseous emission
 in air and Rs. 120.16 lakh is
 calculated for environmental damages
 to water and soil. Thus the total
 environmental compensation is Rs
 171.15 lakh to be recovered. Amount of compensation required and The total amount of compensation is
paid to the deceased person Rs. 1,74,83,800/- as per Table-7. Rs. 3.0 Lakh is paid to the family of each
 deceased member by the unit. Persons responsible for the accident  The visiting team could not
 observed/ found rupture disc or
 pressure relief valve on Reactor
 No.104
  The unit has not provided SCADA
 based system for alert on any
 deviation in operational parameter
 during operation.  The unit has not adopted safety
 practices properly.  The unit has not provided desired
 firefighting arrangement in
 manufacturing area.  The available fire hydrants were
 buried under fly ash of boiler
 which reveals that the same is not
 well maintained.  The solvent storage shed was not
 having adequate firefighting
 system.  It was understood from CCTV
 footage and eye witness that the
 plant personnel started
 troubleshooting. Hence the plant management is
 responsible for such accident. Identification of steps to prevent such A set of recommendations are given in
incident in future. para 8.0. 11.0 Conclusion
 A fatal blast and fire accident happened at M/s Om Organic, Dahej on
 1104.2022 which caused death of 06 workers of unit. Hon'ble
 National Green Tribunal (NGT) took up the matter suo moto vide
 original application no. 272/2022(WZ) and constituted a joint
 Committee vide order dated 12.04.2022 to submit a report on the
 accident. The accident took place in Reactor No.105 when distillation
 for dimethyl formamide recovery was taking place. The accident
 happened at about 00: 47 hours and the fire was controlled after
 about 04 hours. From the circumstantial evidence it is inferred that
 fire may have caused due to addressing leakage of fumes when the
 plant was operational which may have triggered thermal
 decomposition of dimethyl formamide in reactor No. 105 resulting in
 increase in pressure in reactor followed by blast and fire.
 The accident led to death of 06 workers of the unit, destruction of
 large amount of raw material and product causing severe damage to
 environment, destruction of Reactor No. 105 and Reactor No. 104
 and damage to the nearby industries. It is estimated that 9934.6 kg solvents vapourised as VOCs, 200812.2
 kg CO2 and 7242.6 kg NO2 is emitted in atmosphere. Based on
 records of firefighting agencies, it is estimated that 133.1 KL water and
 about 1.0 KL foam was used in firefighting which was spread on
 ground and contaminated the soil alongwith solvents/ organic
 chemicals. A total of Rs. 50.99 lakh is calculated for damage due to
 gaseous emission in air and Rs. 120.16 lakh is calculated for
 environmental damages to water and soil. Thus, the total
 environmental compensation is Rs171.15 lakh (Rupees One crore
 seventy one lakh and fifteen thousand) to be recovered.
 Total of Rs. 1, 74, 83, 800/- (Rupees Once Crore Seventy four
 lakh eighty three thousand eight hundred) is calculated as
 compensation to the family members of deceased persons. Rs.
 3.0 Lakh is paid to the family of each deceased. Balance
 amount of compensation may be paid to the family of deceased.
 The committee opines to pay higher amount among the two to
 the family of deceased workers. It is well understood that organic spent solvent distillation is a critical
 process which requires well trained manpower, machineries equipped
 with safety features and provisions for warning and firefighting. Such
 safety aspects should be reviewed by the Competent Authorities
 from time to time and safety audit, mock drills, periodic
 training of personnel, etc. should be conducted. All the
 equipment deployed for process monitoring should be regularly
 calibrated. The onsite emergency plan review system should be
 developed and its Implementation to be ensured." 4. We have considered the matter with the assistance of learned

Counsel for the State PCB. None has chosen to appear for the PP with

whose representatives the Committee interacted and who was put to

notice of the proceedings in terms of order of this Tribunal referred to

earlier. 5. The fact-finding report submitted by a responsible Committee of

statutory authorities shows that blast occurred due to increase in

temperature, due to fire triggered from spark. There was failure of the PP

in following the safety norms. The heirs of the deceased are entitled to

compensation as recommended by the Committee based on loss of

income and the period of loss, having regard to age of the deceased. Further, the PP was liable to pay compensation for the damage to the

environment. The PP has violated environmental norms particularly those

laid down under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous

Chemical Rules, 1989 under the EP Act . Even otherwise, liability of the

PP is absolute as held inter alia in MC Mehta, (1987) 1 SCC 395. The

report also mentions steps taken in pursuance of earlier orders of the

Tribunal requiring the Chief Secretary, Gujarat to coordinate compliance

of safety norms to prevent frequent fatal incidents during operation of

such units. 6. In view of above, in absence of any reason not to do so, we accept

the report and direct further remedial action in term of compliances, 24 adoption of safeguards to prevent recurence of such incidents in future,

recovery of compensation for damage to the environment and loss of lives

and disbursement of compensation to heirs of the deceased. Till recovery

of compensation, the unit may not be allowed to restart. Compliance may

be ensured by the Chief Secretary, Gujarat through concerned officers. The Chief Secretary, Gujarat may hold a follow up meeting on or before

31.10.2022 to satisfy himself that the recommendations have been duly

complied with. If any grievance survives, it will be open to aggrieved party to move

this Tribunal. The application is disposed of. A copy of this order be forwarded to the Chief Secretary, Gujarat,

MoEF&CC and CPC B by e-mail. The CPC B may forward the

recommendations, particularly those in para 8 of the report to all the

States/UTs for compliance by such units. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM
August 29, 2022
Original Application No.272/2022
A 25