1. The SHO, Police Station Inderpuri has presented this
 charge-sheet against above named accused for initiation of
 trial U/s. 354/354C/354D/506 Indian Penal Code , 1860 (for
 short " IPC "). FACTUAL MATRIX 2. In a nutshell, the case of the prosecution is that in and
 around year 2012, the prosecutrix/victim had purchased a
 house at WZ-83 Dasghara Village, New Delhi from late Sh.
 Devi Ram (father of accused). When she started
 construction at the said premises, accused started troubling
 her. On 06.05.2016 at around 6.45 PM, accused beat her on
 the road and threatened her to leave the said house else he
 would get her, her husband and children killed. Based on the
 complaint of the prosecutrix/complainant, present FIR was
 registered and investigation ensued. During investigation,
 site plan was prepared and statement of prosecutrix u/s. 164 Cr.PC got recorded. During further investigation, witnesses
 were examined and their statement u/s. 161 CrPC were
 recorded. Accused was arrested, however was released on
 police bail. Thereafter, on completion of investigation, final
 report was presented for trial against accused Phool Singh
 u/s. 354/354C/354D/506 IPC . COGNIZANCE, COMPLIANCE OF SECTION 207 CRPC
AND PLEA OF ACCUSED

 Digitally
 signed by
 PADMA
 PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: 3. After presentation of charge-sheet, accused were summoned
 by the Ld. Predecessor of this Court. Copy of the charge-
 sheet was supplied to accused u/s. 207 of Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 (for short " CrPC "). Thereafter, charge u/s.
 509 / 506 IPC was framed against the accused by the Ld.
 Predecessor of this Court on 19.12.2017 to which he
 pleaded not guilty and opted to contest. It is important to
 note that the charge u/s. 509 IPC was framed on the
 allegations of showing the pictures of complainant to other
 persons and charge u/s. 506 IPC was framed on the
 allegations of criminal intimidation to kill her husband and
 children. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 4. In order to prove its case, prosecution examined three
 witnesses and relied upon following evidence - Witness exhibiting Identification Description
PW-1 Ms. Manju Ex. PW-1/A Statement of
 complainant
PW-2 ASI Chanderpal Ex. PW-2/A Arrest Memo of
 Accused
PW-3 SI Narender Ex. PW-3/A Site Plan
 Ex. PW-3/B Bail Bonds of Accused
Admitted Documents Ex. P1 Statement u/s. 164 Cr.PC Ex. P2 FIR No. 100/2016 Digitally
 signed by
 PADMA
 PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: 5. PW-1 Ms. Manju W/o Jyoti deposed that in the year 2012,
 she purchased H. No. WZ-83 from one person namely late
 Sh. Devi Ram. Thereafter, in the year 2016 when she started
 renovation of the above mentioned house, one person
 namely Phool Singh S/o Devi Ram started troubling /
 harassing her. She further deposed that he used to take her
 photographs and used to point out her to the other persons.
 He also threatened her to kill her husband, children and her
 if she does not abandon the aforementioned house. PW-1
 has further deposed that on 06.05.2016 at about 6.45 p.m
 when she was going to her house, accused came on a bike
 with another person and he pulled her on the road by pulling
 her clothes (witness pointed towards her upper part of her
 suit). She also deposed that accused also gave beatings to
 her and thereafter, he fled away from the spot as she had
 started shouting for help. Thereafter, she called the police
 officials. After sometime, police came at the spot. The
 police officials recorded her statement on the next day,
 which is at Ex. PW1/A bearing her signature at point A.
 That she also pointed out the spot, where the incident took
 place. That on the same day, she had also visited the PS,
 where she found the sister and mother of the accused and
 she came to know that accused had beaten them also and
 they came to PS to lodge complaint against him. Witness
 further deposed that she also accompanied the police
 officials to the court for recording her statement. She
 narrated the whole incident to the Ld. Magistrate. The
 statement u/s 164 Cr. P.C. is at Ex. P1 (admitted by accused

 Digitally
FIR No. 100/2016 signed by
 PADMA
State Vs. Phool Singh PADMA LANDOL Page 4 of 31 LANDOL Date: 06.05.2016 when the incident took place. That she had
 given her complaint to the police on 07.05.2016 i.e. the very

 Digitally
FIR No. 100/2016 signed by
 PADMA
State Vs. Phool Singh PADMA
 LANDOL
 LANDOL
 Date: She denied the suggestion that any of such incident as
 recorded on 06.05.2016 has never taken place on the basis
 of which the frivolous FIR was recorded against the accused
 persons. She admitted that accused had not assaulted her but
 he had maltreated her. Witness voluntarily stated that
 accused had pulled her suit below the neck and due to which
 she fell down, then he threatened her to leave the house,
 otherwise the accused would kill her, her husband and
 children. She further deposed that the incident took place on
 06.05.2016 and whatsoever had happened with her on
 06.05.2016 was incorporated by her in her complaint dated
 07.05.2016 given to the PS Inder Puri. PW-1 denied the
 suggestion that accused had any point of time never
 threatened her to kill or her family or her husband. She
 deposed that apart from the above threatening, the accused
 did not give any other threats to her. She denied the
 suggestion that she is deposing falsely and that as she has
 grudge against the accused on account of having purchased

 Digitally
 signed by
FIR No. 100/2016 PADMA
 PADMA LANDOL
State Vs. Phool Singh LANDOL Date: In his cross-examination, PW-3 deposed that he conducted
 investigation on the complaint of the complainant that the
 accused used to click photograph and also used to share
 those photographs with other persons. He further deposed
 that he had inquired the said facts from other persons
 however he cannot tell the name & address of the person
 from whom he had inquired the aforesaid facts. Witness
 denied the suggestion that the accused never clicked
 photographs and for the same reason he did not investigate
 or recover the camera as alleged by the complainant in her
 complaint. He further denied the suggestion that no inquiry
 was made from any public person with regard to the above
 mentioned facts. Witness further deposed that there is no
 police picket near to the point of incident and there is a
 police chowki near the point of incident but that is
 abandoned. He denied the suggestion that the said police
 chowki is not abandoned and it is renovated and police

 Digitally
FIR No. 100/2016 signed by
 PADMA
State Vs. Phool Singh PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: 8. The statement of the accused under Section 313 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 was recorded on 04.06.2024
 and he was put all the incriminating circumstances,
 appearing against him in the prosecution evidence. The
 accused submitted that he never had any kind of fight with
 the complainant/victim and he never intimidated her or
 troubled/harassed her. He has further stated that complainant
 has filed a false case as there is a property dispute between
 them. Accused further denied having taken any photograph
 of complainant/victim or having come on a bike with any
 person on 06.05.2016. He said he was at his shop on that
 date. He has further went on to state that in fact complainant
 herself threatens him of filing false cases against him. That
 he had made police complaint against her but police did not
 take any action. Accused has further stated that house
 bearing no. WZ-83/7 comes in his share of ancestral
 property, however, his entire family including his mother,
 brother and sister in connivance with the complainant got
 the said house transferred in the name of complainant/victim
 by misguiding and deceiving his father. Accused has further

FIR No. 100/2016 Digitally
 signed by
 PADMA State Vs. Phool Singh PADMA LANDOL Page 15 of 31 LANDOL Date: 9. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor for the State argued
 that the prosecution has proved its case beyond all
 reasonable shadow of doubts by examining all the material
 witnesses who have supported the prosecution version in
 material aspects. Prosecution has relied on the testimony of
 complainant/victim who has successfully stood the test of
 cross-examination and her testimony is same throughout.
 All the PWs have successfully proved the ingredients of the
 provisions and to show that there is nothing to suggest
 otherwise in the present case than the commission of the
 offence u/s. 509 / 506 IPC by the accused. Accordingly,
 conviction of the accused was prayed. 10. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused has raised
 several objections. He has argued that the prosecution has
 never disclosed the name of another person who was
 allegedly accompanying the accused on bike on the date of
 incident. It is further contended that the alleged photographs
 and torn cloths of victim have never seen the light of the
 day. Prosecution never produced those evidence despite

FIR No. 100/2016 Digitally
 signed by
State Vs. Phool Singh PADMA PADMA LANDOL Page 16 of 31 LANDOL Date: 11. After giving anxious consideration to the rival contentions
 and perusing the case file meticulously, this court is of the
 opinion that at the heart of the matter is a determination as
 to: ii) whether on the same date, time and place, the accused
 Phool Singh threatened the complainant with any injury to
 her and her family members, with intent to cause alarm to

 Digitally
 signed by
FIR No. 100/2016 PADMA
 PADMA LANDOL
State Vs. Phool Singh LANDOL Date: 12. At the outset, it would be beneficial to peruse the provisions
 under which the accused has been charged i.e. Section 509
 and Section 506 of IPC: 13. At the onset, it is imperative to discuss the essential
 ingredients of Section 509 IPC which are as under: Digitally
 signed by
 PADMA
 PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: 14. Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code encapsulates two

 pivotal components for establishing an offence: firstly, the
 presence of an intention to insult the modesty of a woman,
 and secondly, the manner in which this insult is
 perpetrated. The fundamental ingredient of this provision
 is the requirement of intent, where the accused must
 possess a deliberate intention to affront or insult the
 modesty of a woman. The insult itself can take place
 through two distinct modes. It can occur verbally or
 visually by uttering specific words, making sounds, or
 displaying gestures or objects, with the deliberate intent
 that these words, sounds, gestures, or objects are heard or
 seen by the woman involved. Alternatively, insult can
 manifest as an intrusion upon the woman's privacy,
 meaning thereby encroaching upon her personal space or
 violating her sense of privacy intentionally, in a manner
 that affronts her modesty. In essence, Section 509 emphasizes that intent is the cornerstone of this offence,
 necessitating a deliberate affront to a woman's modesty for
 the Section to be invoked. 15. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ramkripal v. State of M.P. (2007) 11 SCC 265 has discussed the essence of woman's
 modesty as: Further, in Rupan Deol Bajaj v. Kanwar Pal Singh Gill (1995) 6
SCC 194, the Hon'ble Supreme Court while discussing the test
for outraging the modesty of a woman under Section 509 of IPC,
has observed as under: 16. It is clear from the above judgments that the essence of a
 woman's modesty is inherently linked to her gender.
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Varun Bhatia v. State & Anr. 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5288 has defined 'modesty' under Section 509 as: 17. Hence, 'modesty', as per Section 509 IPC is a quality
 associated with female individuals as a group, stemming
 from their gender. In determining whether an act amounts to
 an insult of modesty, the crucial factor is the culpable
 intention of the accused. The reaction of the woman
 involved is relevant but not always conclusive. Essentially,
 the test for ascertaining an insult or outrage to modesty
 revolves around whether the actions of the offender could
 reasonably be perceived as capable of shocking a woman's
 sense of decency. 18. It is further settled law that mere insult or abuse does not
 fall within the ambit of Section 509 IPC. However, if the
 insult is directed towards the feminity of a woman, it will
 attract the wrath of provision. Reliance in this regard is
 placed on judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Gauhati in Swapna Barman v. Subir Das 2003 SCC OnLine Gau 196. 19. Now coming to the facts of the case in hand. The
 complainant has alleged that accused used to click her
 pictures, show it to persons accompanying him and at times
 points her to the other persons. As correctly contended by
 Ld. Counsel for accused, those pictures have never seen the
 light of the day. Complainant has nowhere explained what
 kind of pictures did the accused click, whether it was of her

FIR No. 100/2016 Digitally
 signed by State Vs. Phool Singh PADMA Page 23 of 31 PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: 20. In the preceding paragraphs, it is seen that the culpable
 intention of the accused is an essential ingredient of Section
 509 IPC. However, in the case in hand when the allegation
 against the accused itself is vague in nature, there is no
 occasion to determine if the accused had a culpable
 intention. Even if the allegations are assumed to be true,
 accused cannot be said to have an intention to insult the
 modesty of complainant in the absence of any evidence,
 whatsoever. Hence, in the considered opinion of this Court,
 the ingredients of Section 509 are not fulfilled. Therefore,
 accused is liable to be acquitted of the offence punishable
 under Section 509 IPC. 2nd Point for Determination 21. For proving an offence under Section 506 of IPC
 prosecution is required to prove: 22. In Manik Taneja Vs. State of Karnataka (2015) 7 SCC 423,
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court after noticing Section 506 ,
 which defines the criminal intimidation observed as under: 12. In the instant case, the allegation is that the
 appellants have abused the complainant and

FIR No. 100/2016 Digitally
 signed by
 PADMA State Vs. Phool Singh PADMA LANDOL Page 26 of 31 LANDOL Date: However, there are no such allegations of criminal
 intimidation on the date of incident i.e. 06.05.2016 in the
 testimony of complainant given before Court. Rather, she
 has made a general statement that in the year 2016 accused
 used to threaten her to abandon the house else he would kill
 her and her family members. Digitally
 signed by
 PADMA
 PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: 1995CRILJ3559. 26. In the case in hand, there is no material on record which
 shows that the accused had the intention to cause alarm in
 the mind of complainant. Moreover the complainant herself
 never felt alarmed because as she has stated that right from
 the time she started renovation of the house, accused has
 been threatening her to abandon the house. However, had
 she been alarmed she must have done some overt act as a
 result of that 'alarm' or taken some action against the
 accused. Though the test under this Section is not the effect
 of such threat or intimidation on the victim, however, same
 is a relevant factor in order to establish the intention of
 accused. It is an admitted fact that the parties herein i.e.

 Digitally
 signed by
 PADMA
FIR No. 100/2016 PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: 27. Therefore, in view of above discussion, the conscience of
 this Court is completely satisfied that the prosecution has
 failed to proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.
 Accordingly, accused Phool Singh is hereby acquitted of
 offence punishable u/s. 509 / 506 IPC. PADMA LANDOL
 LANDOL Date: