“Globally, we have been very consistent in maintaining that our focus from a geographic perspective, today is in Africa, Southeast Asia, and Middle East. These are countries which are looking at identity, social security, and taxation-related infrastructure getting created over there. And that is what we are bidding for,’ Suresh Sethi, Managing Director (MD) and CEO of Protean eGov Technologies during the company’s Q1FY26 quarterly earnings call .

The company is working on an education-related Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) project in Morocco alongside another project in Ethiopia. Sethi added that the revenue from their international business would begin reflecting in the numbers in the upcoming quarters.

Notably, Protean’s shares tumbled as much as 50% last week, following lukewarm financial results. The share price nosedive followed a major shock in May, when the Income Tax Department decided not to select Protean for its PAN 2.0 project .

For context, PAN 2.0 aims to make the PAN Card a “common business identifier” across all digital systems of specified Government agencies.

An analyst pointed out that if one were to exclude other income from the company’s EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation), it would actually show a decrease of 37% year-on-year (YoY) with a margin of only 7.8%.

“So entire of the reported EBITDA, based on your presentation, is driven by the other income,” commented the analyst.

In response, Sethi urged the analyst to not exclude the company’s Expected Credit Loss (ECL) provisioning while calculating EBITDA. “Ultimately, whatever ECL processing we are doing is also part of business, and I would not exclude that when I’m computing EBITDA” he said.

“There are many automation efforts which are going on in the company, and you should see some increase in EBITDA percentage going forward, probably from Q3 or Q4,” Sethi added.

In addition, the analyst criticised Protean for inconsistent reporting standards. He pointed out that last year’s presentation showed the Q1FY25 adjusted EBITDA as Rs 45 crore, while this year’s presentation claimed it was around Rs 35 crore, thus showing a 22% YoY decrease. Another analyst pointed out that the company’s operational margins had gone from around 20% in FY18 to around 8%-10% at present.

Sethi argued that this was because the company had invested in a number of new products that were yet to deliver revenue.

“The primary reason is because we are putting a lot of these technology expenses in these new initiatives or new products. Therefore, for a short run, you will see some contraction in margin. But on a long-term basis, once the revenues from even a couple of these products start kicking in, you will see immediate uptick in margins,” he said.

Protean eGov Technologies clocked in Rs. 239.36 crore in revenue in the first quarter of FY 2025-26, marking a 10.9% YoY increase. Profit after tax for Q1FY26 was Rs. 23.85 crore, a 13% increase from the previous year’s figure of Rs. 21.09 crore.

The company earned Rs. 100 crore from Tax Services in Q1FY26 (a 2% YoY growth), and Rs. 76 crore from acting as the Central Record Keeping Agency (CRA), recording a 16% YoY growth. Meanwhile, revenue from new businesses grew 101% to Rs. 11 crore in Q1FY26, as compared to Rs. 6 crore in the previous year. However, the company’s identity services business saw a 14% YoY dip in revenue, standing at Rs. 24 crore in Q1FY26 in comparison to Rs. 28 crore in Q1FY25.

Protean’s operational revenue declined 5% and income from tax services declined 7% on a Quarter over Quarter (QoQ) basis. Revenue from CRA Services grew only 1%, while identity services and new businesses dipped by 3% and 26% QoQ respectively.

Elsewhere, total expenses for the company were around Rs. 206.99 crore, which was a 9.6% increase YoY. Notably, processing charges were the largest contributor to this figure at Rs. 76.46 crore, while employee benefits cost Rs. 58.03 crore. System support and maintenance expenses came out to be Rs. 38.11 crore, while finance costs stood at Rs. 1.52 crore. Depreciation and amortisation in Q1FY26 cost Rs. 11.04 crore, and other expenses stood at Rs. 21.83 crore.

The e-governance solutions company carried out 565 million Aadhar Authentication services in FY25, coming out to around 1.5 million transactions per day. Also Protean eGov conducted 3. 21 billion online PAN verifications at 8 million transaction daily, with 90% of the current market share

Elsewhere, 512 million e-KYC transactions occurred with 1.4 million transactions per day, and 154 million e-Sign transactions occurred at 420,000 transactions per day in the same year.

Also Read:

.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event