(A) PRELUDE: 1. By way of present judgment, I shall conscientiously adjudicate
 upon the plaintiff's suit for Recovery of Rs.36,47,500/- alongwith interest
 @ 18% per annum pendentlite and future with effect from 20/21.04.2019.
 Plaintiff has also prayed for a direction to the defendant no.2 (since
 deleted) i.e. Indusind Bank to appoint the surveyor with the directions to
 assess the value of the damaged vehicle with a direction to sell the same
 in market and deposit the sale proceeds of the damaged vehicle in the
 loan amount of the plaintiff besides direction not to deduct the loan
 installment amount from the account of the plaintiff till the entire
 insurance amount is recovered by the plaintiff from the defendant (No.1)
 Insurance Company. The plaintiff has also prayed for costs of the suit. (B) PLAINTIFF'S CASE 2. Eschewing prolix reference to the pleadings crystallizing the same
 the plaintiff has averred in the plaint that:- On receipt of summons, the defendant contested the suit by filing a
 detailed Written Statement thereby taking preliminary objections :- 3.1) the suit is not maintainable as the plaintiff has not
 approached the court with clean hands and suppressed material facts
 from the court and that there is no cause of action to file the present suit.
 The suit is liable to be dismissed as the name of the driver mentioned in
 plaint is different from the name of the driver who was released on bail
 after furnishing the bail bond in the said FIR No. 0196/2019. The
 defendant has further averred that the suit is liable to be dismissed as the
 sitting capacity in the bus was 36, however, at the time of alleged
 Digitally
 signed by
 MUKESH
 incident, the bus was overloaded with more than 50 passengers. CS (Comm.) No.177/2021 Raj Kumar Sharma Vs. M/s Cholamandalam MS General Insurance. Page no. 5 of 28
 3.2) On merits, all the allegations made in the plaint are denied
 as incorrect and it has been reiterated by the defendant that the defendant
 is not liable to pay any amount to the plaintiff because the name of the
 driver mentioned in the present petition is different from the name of the
 driver who released on bail after furnishing the bail bond in the said FIR
 No.0196/2019 also reiterating that the sitting capacity in the bus is 36,
 while at the time of alleged incident, the bus was overloaded with more
 than 50 passengers, and as such the plaintiff did not comply with the
 terms and conditions of the policy issued by the defendant. It has further
 been contended that the plaintiff wants to get advantage of his own
 wrongs by dragging the defendant in the instant false litigation. It has
 further been contended that there is no cause of action arisen in favour
 of the plaintiff and against the defendant. There is no liability of the
 defendant to pay claimed amount of Rs.36,47,500/- or any interest
 thereupon as no amount is due against the defendant and prayed that the
 suit be dismissed with costs. 4. A replication to the Written Statement was also preferred by the
 plaintiff reiterating the contents of the plaint and vehemently denying the
 contents of the Written Statement. Plaintiff has contended that the bus of
 the plaintiff was a luxury bus and the plaintiff since the starts of his
 business did not violate any of the rules and bye-laws of the traffic
 transport authority as well as insurance companies. 5. It is pertinent to mention here that defendant No.2, the Manager,
 Indusind Bank was dropped from the array of the parties vide order dated Digitally signed MUKESH by MUKESH KUMAR GUPTA KUMAR Date: CS (Comm.) No.177/2021 Raj Kumar Sharma Vs. M/s Cholamandalam MS General Insurance. Page no. 6 of 28
 23.10.2021 on the statement of Ld. Counsel for plaintiff given before the
 court. (D) CRYSTALISING THE DISPUTE :- 6. On the pleadings of the parties and documents placed on record
 and after perusing the affidavit of admission denial of the parties, the
 following issues were framed for adjudication vide order dated
 02.06.2024. ISSUES. KUMAR
KUMAR GUPTA
 Date: "Whether the defendant has validly repudiated the claim of the
 plaintiff in lieu of the insured vehicle being overloaded?OPD". (E) EVIDENCE OF PLAINTIFF. 8. Plaintiff Mr. Raj Kumar Sharma, in support of his case, got
 examined himself as PW1 and reiterated the contents of the plaint on
 oath in his affidavit Ex.PW1/A. He got exhibited the copy of GST
 Registration Certificate of his proprietorship firm as Ex.PW1/1, Copy of
 RC of vehicle bearing registration No. UP-80ET-0591 as Ex.PW1/2,
 copy of Insurance Policy No. 3373/00554209/000/00 as Ex.PW1/3, Copy
 of FIR No. 196/2019 PS Karhal, District Mainpuri, (UP) u/s
 279/337/304-A IPC marked as Mark PW1/4, copy of fitness and All
 India and Tourist Permit marked as Mark PW1/5 and Mark PW1/6
 respectively, copy of Legal Notice dated 17.01.2020 as Ex.PW1/7, its
 Postal Receipt as Ex.PW1/8 and Courier Receipt as Ex.PW1/9. He has
 further deposed that the suit is correct and the defendants are liable to pay
 the outstanding amount alongwith interest and costs of the suit. PW1 has
 specifically deposed in his Examination-in-chief by way of Affidavit
 Ex.PW1/A that the vehicle has met with an accident on 20/21.04.2019
 and an FIR in this regard was registered with the Police Station karhal,
 District Mainpuri, UP under section 279 / 337 / 304A IPC on the complaint
 of Shri Vikram Singh S/o Shri Prem Kumar Singh and in the said
 accident the vehicle was completely damaged and was not in a repairable
 Digitally
 signed by
 MUKESH condition. MUKESH KUMAR
KUMAR GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 9. During cross-examination, Ld. Counsel for defendants has tried to
 puncture the testimony of PW1 on the point of liability of defendant.
 PW1 has admitted as correct that he was not an eye witness to the
 accident in question and he has mentioned about it in the plaint as well as
 in his evidence only on the basis of what he has heard. He has submitted
 the claim intimation form Ex. DW1/1 mentions the name of the driver
 who was driving the vehicle at the time of accident as Vrindavan Yadav
 but when confronted with the same showing the name of driver as
 Rakesh Dadhich, he has voluntarily deposed that there used to be two
 drivers in the vehicle and Mr. Vrindavan Yadav was driving the vehicle
 at the time of accident. He has also deposed that as per his information
 3-4 persons died due to the accident. 10. No other witness was examined by the plaintiff and the evidence
 of the plaintiff was closed vide court order dated 02.02.2024. (F) DEFENDANT'S EVIDENCE :- 11. The defendant in its defence has examined two witnesses one Mr.
 Sujeet Kumar Sahu, its Authorized person as DW1 and another Shri
 Harpreet Singh, an authorised Investigator of the Insurance Company
 as DW2. 12. DW1 Shri Sujeet Kumar Sahu, in his evidence by way of affidavit
 Ex.DW1/A, reiterated the contents of the Written Statement on oath. He
 Digitally
 signed by
 got exhibited the certified copy of Vehicle Investigation Report dated
 MUKESH
MUKESH KUMAR
KUMAR
GUPTA
 GUPTA
 Date: 13. The witness DW1 was subjected to a detailed cross-examination
 by Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff who during cross-examination has
 denied the suggestion that the plaintiff has suppressed the material facts
 for the proper adjudication of the case. He has admitted that as per the
 insurance policy, the total seating capacity of the vehicle in question is 45
 persons including driver but at the same time, he has shown his
 knowledge on the basis newspaper report/investigation report and FIR
 that more than 50 persons were sitting in the bus at the time of accident.
 He has however admitted that the number of passengers at the time of
 accident being 50 has not been mentioned in the FIR. He has refuted the
 suggestion that he has deliberately and wrongfully raised the plea of 50
 occupants in the bus only to deny the claim of the plaintiff. He has
 further admitted that the name of the driver of the bus is also not
 mentioned in the FIR and denied the suggestion that he has deliberately Digitally signed mentioned the name of co-driver instead of actual driver Mr. Vrindavan
MUKESH by MUKESH

 Yadav. KUMAR GUPTA
KUMAR Date: 14. When asked about his authorization to represent the defendant
 company, he has admitted that he has not been specifically authorized by
 the defendant company in this case. In response to his deposition for
 the seating capacity of the bus being mentioned as 36 in his affidavit
 Ex.DW1/A, he has volunteered the same to be a typographical error. He
 has shown his complete lack of knowledge regarding the number of
 injured or dead person in the accident being verified by the Investigator
 either from the hospital record or otherwise and admitted that the same is
 based on newspaper's report. He has denied the suggestion that there is
 no valid and government proof annexed with the investigation report of
 the officer Shri Harpreet Singh that shows that passengers sitting in the
 bus was more than 50. he has shown lack of any knowledge whether
 any official from the defendant company went to PS Karhal or hospital at
 Saifi to verify the fact. He has finally denied the suggestion that he is
 deposing falsely at the instance of defendant company for denying the
 recovery of insurance claim amount. 15. DW2 Shri Harpreet Singh, the so-called authorised investigator of
 Insurance Company, has also deposed on similar lines as that of DW1 in
 his evidence by way of Affidavit Ex.DW2/A. He reiterated the already
 collectively exhibited documents in DW1/1 (colly 31 pages) and got
 them exhibited separately as the statement of the Insured dated
 15.05.2019 Ex.DW1/2, the RC of vehicle Ex.DW1/2 and the Insurance
 Policy Note Ex.DW1/4, DL of the declared driver as Ex.DW1/5 and the
 Digitally
 signed by
 MUKESH
 Snap of bail document as Ex.DW1/6. He has deposed that plaintiff did
MUKESH KUMAR
KUMAR GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 16. During cross-examination, he has deposed to be an independent
 investigator having no knowledge about the contents of the Written
 Statement. Like DW1, the witness has also denied the suggestion that
 the defendant is not liable to pay to the plaintiff because the name of the
 driver mentioned in the petition is different from the name of the driver
 released on bail in the FIR no. 0196/2019 which was registered when the
 subject vehicle has met with an accident. He has admitted after seeing
 the Motor Policy Schedule-cum-Certificate of Insurance issued by the
 defendant company Ex.DW2/P1 that the same mentions the total seating
 capacity of the bus including driver as 45 and denied the suggestion that
 he has deliberately and intentionally mentioned the sitting capacity of the
 bus as 26 only for the purpose of denial of insurance claim to the
 plaintiff. When asked about the details of his investigation, the witness
 has admitted that he has never given any written communication to the
 owner of the vehicle asking him to join the investigation or recorded
 statement of any injured person or family member of deceased passenger.
 He has admitted that he cannot tell the exact number of injured persons
 or deceased persons or has even asked the concerned authority in writing
 for providing CCTV footage of toll booth exit at Karhal though he has
 added that he has requested verbally for CCTV footage which was not
 Digitally

 provided. He has also admitted as correct that he cannot tell the name of
 signed by
 MUKESH
MUKESH KUMAR
KUMAR GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 17. No other witness was examined by the defendants and the
 evidence of the defendants was closed vide statement dated 04.05.2024. 18. Ld. counsel for the plaintiff Sh. Sanjay Kumar has vehemently
 argued that the vehicle in question which has met with the unfortunate
 accident on 20/21.04.2019 was fully insured with the defendant which
 was valid on the date of accident. It has been argued that a huge
 insurance premium of Rs.1,34,400/- has been paid by the plaintiff to the
 defendant and the plaintiff had also complied with all other legal
 requirements including Vehicle Fitness, All India Tourist Permit and
 Tourist Permit which were valid at the time of accident. It has been
 Digitally

MUKESH
 signed by
 MUKESH
 KUMAR
 GUPTA
 argued hat the subject vehicle was being driven by a competent driver
KUMAR
GUPTA Date: 19. Ld. Counsel for the defendant Ms. Samta Jain has submitted that
 though the arguments addressed by ld counsel for plaintiff may appear to
 generate sympathy, however, the same is contrary to the facts. It has been
 argued that the plaintiff has deliberately concealed the name of the driver
 who was driving the bus at the time of accident and his name differ in the
 present petition from the driver who has obtained bail from the court. She
 has vehemently argued that the bus was overloaded at the time of
 accident with 50 passengers against its authorized capacity which is a
 clear violation of the agreed policy terms and conditions of insurance and
 as a result of which, the defendant was under legal obligation to repudiate
 the claim. It has been further argued that the claim of the defendant is
 primarily based on the newspaper reports regarding the accident but is
 also based on the report of its independent investigator and the FIR
 registered in this case which the plaintiff cannot deny. It has been finally
 argued that not only the suit of the plaintiff is required to be dismissed
 but the same should be dismissed after imposing exemplary cost on him
 Digitally
 signed by for dragging the defendant in the court unnecessarily. CS (Comm.) No.177/2021 Raj Kumar Sharma Vs. M/s Cholamandalam MS General Insurance. Page no. 15 of 28 20. I have heard the arguments addressed by the Ld. Counsels for the
 parties, perused the entire record including the pleadings, documents and
 the oral evidence. I have given a thoughtful consideration to the same.
 My issues-wise determination are as under:- 21. The onus to prove this issues was held upon the defendant, who
 has taken a preliminary objection in the Written Statement that the suit is
 liable to be dismissed with heavy costs on the ground that the defendant
 is not liable to pay a single penny to the plaintiff because the name of
 driver (who was driving the ill-fated bus at the time of accident)
 mentioned in the petition (plaint) is different from the name of the driver
 who was released on bail after furnishing the Bail Bond in the said FIR.
 The defendant has relied upon the testimony of DW1 Sujit Kumar Sahu
 its AR and that of DW2 Shri Harpreet Singh who is stated to be the
 Investigator authorised by the Insurance Company (defendant herein).
 The defendant has also lamely relied upon the CRM Motor Claim
 Intimation form and the photocopy of the bail order issued by the
 concerned court which appears to be forming the part of Ex.DW1/1, the
 so-called investigation report of DW2. While on the other hand, the
 plaintiff has relied upon his own testimony and the deposition of
 Digitally
 signed by
 MUKESH
 defendant witness as culled out during cross-examination. If entire
MUKESH KUMAR
KUMAR GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 22. Applying the ratio of the aforesaid judgments and taken on the
 yardstick of the preponderance of probabilities, the defendant has utterly
 failed to prove the discharge the onus conferred on his shoulders. the
 issue No. 1 is accordingly, decided against the defendant and in favour
 of plaintiff. ADDITIONAL ISSUE:"Whether the defendant has validly repudiated the claim of the
 plaintiff in lieu of the insured vehicle being overloaded?OPD". 23. The onus to prove this issue was held upon the defendant, who
 have taken a preliminary objection in the Written Statement that the suit
 is liable to be dismissed with heavy costs on the ground that at the time
 of accident, the bus was overloaded with more than 50 passengers while
 the sitting capacity in the bus was 36. In this regard, the testimony of
 DW1 and DW2 are interesting and relevant. DW1 Shri Sujeet Kumar
 Sahu in his testimony has deposed that the sitting capacity in the bus was
 26, however, at the time of alleged incident, the bus was overloaded with
 more than 50 passengers. DW1 in order to prove the same has relied
 upon the vehicle investigation report dated 23.05.2019 conducted by the
 investigator Shri Harpreet Singh(DW2). However,in his cross-
 examination by the Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff deposed that as per the
 Digitally
 signed by
 MUKESH
MUKESH KUMAR
KUMAR GUPTA
 Insurance Policy the sitting capacity of the insured bus in question was
GUPTA Date: 24. Foremost and very important, his report is entirely based upon
 the article published in the Newspaper "Amar Ujala" wherein the
 information regarding accident of insured vehicle in question was
 published. It is settled proposition of law that Newspaper Reports by
 themselves are not evidence of the contents thereof. Those reports are
 only hearsay evidence. These have to be proved and the manner of
 proving a newspaper report is well settled. Since, in this case, neither the
 reporter who heard the speech and sent the report was examined nor even
 his reports produced the production of the newspaper by the Editor and
 Publisher. Newspaper, is at the best secondary evidence of its contents
 and is not admissible in evidence without proper proof of the contents
 under the Indian Evidence Act . As such, a statement of fact contained
 in a newspaper is merely hearsay or therefore, inadmissible in evidence
 in absence of maker of the statement. 25. Further Section 78 of the Indiana Evidence Act, provides that the
 public document numerated in the six clauses of the section may be
 proved in the manner provided in the relevant clause which has not been
 done in the instant case. Reliance placed on 1994 Supp (3) Supreme
 Court Cases 5 Quamarul Islam Vs. S.K. Kanta and Others . 26. Ld. Counsel for defendant on the other hand has relied upon the
 judgment passed in MAC Appeal No. 924/2016 and CM No.
 41304/2016 titled Praveen Kumar Garg Vs. Sitaram Mehto & Ors . Digitally
 wherein our own Hon'ble High Court while declining the plea of the
 signed by
 MUKESH
MUKESH
KUMAR
 KUMAR
 GUPTA appellant that the violation of permit condition on account of overloading
GUPTA Date: 27. The onus of proving this issue was held upon the plaintiff and
 since this issue pertains to the entitlement of the plaintiff to the relief
 claimed, the same is pivotal to the instant case. 28. Ld. counsel for the plaintiff has vehemently argued that the
 vehicle in question which has met with the ill-fated accident on
 20/21.04.2019 was fully insured with the defendant and was having valid
 Insurance Policy on the date of accident. It has been argued that a huge
 insurance premium of Rs.1,34,400/- has been paid by the plaintiff to the
 defendant and the plaintiff had all other legal compliances including
 Vehicle Fitness, All India Tourist Permit and Tourist Permit being valid at
 the time of accident besides the same being driven by a competent driver
 Vrindavan Yadav who was having a valid Driving License at the time of
 accident. 29. It is not disputed by the defendant that the Insurance Policy of the
 insured vehicle was a valid and subsisting policy at the time of accident.
 It is also not disputed by the defendant that insured vehicle has met with
 an accident on 20/21.04.2019 and an FIR No. 0196/2019 u/s
 279 / 337 / 304A IPC PS Karhal, Mainpuri, UP Ex.PW1/4 was registered in
 this regard. The plaintiff alongwith the plaint has filed certain
 photographs of the insured vehicle which clearly shows that the insured
 vehicle is totally damaged. Even otherwise the aforesaid fact has not Digitally signed by MUKESH MUKESH
KUMAR
 KUMAR GUPTA
 Date: 30. The onus of proving this issue was also on the plaintiff but no
 specific evidence to this effect has been led as to whether there was any
 agreement to pay interest on the insured amount. In the absence of any
 agreement to show that there was an interest component agreed to
 between the parties, the court shall be left with no option but to advert to
 the provisions of section 34 of CPC and provisions of Interest Act since
 Digitally
 signed by
 the amount is outstanding. Under the facts and circumstances of the
 MUKESH
MUKESH KUMAR
KUMAR
GUPTA
 GUPTA
 Date: 31. The onus of proving this issue was upon both the parties.
 Though, no specific evidence has been led by either parties on this issue,
 however, since the plaintiff has been successful in proving its
 entitlement to the relief claimed and defendant has failed in proving the
 defence, the plaintiff is held to be entitled to costs of the suit throughout.
 This issue is accordingly in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant. MUKESH by MUKESH KUMAR GUPTA KUMAR Date: 32. In view of the aforesaid discussions and finding of the court on
the aforesaid issues, the court is of the considered opinion that the
plaintiff has been able to successfully prove its entitlement to the
recovery against the defendant . The suit of the plaintiff is accordingly
decreed against the defendant insurance company for a sum of
36,47,500/- alongwith simple interest @ 9% per annum on such amount
pendente-lite and future from the date of institution of the suit till its
realization. The plaintiff shall also be entitled to the costs of the suit
throughout. 33. Decree sheet be drawn accordingly. 34. File be consigned to record room after due completion. PRONOUNCED IN OPEN COURT
ON TODAY 20th SEPTEMBER, 2024 MUKESH Digitally signed
 by MUKESH
 KUMAR KUMAR GUPTA
 Date: 2024.09.20
 GUPTA 17:15:51 +0530

 (MUKESH KUMAR GUPTA)
 District Judge (Commercial Court)-07/
 Central/THC/Delhi

CS (Comm.) No.177/2021 Raj Kumar Sharma Vs. M/s Cholamandalam MS General Insurance. Page no. 28 of 28