The Data Protection Bill 2021 presented by the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) has stated that data fiduciaries can process a child’s personal data only after verifying their age and obtaining the consent of their parent or guardian. Data fiduciaries are further barred from carrying out certain activities using children’s data.

Multiple stakeholders had requested that the bill lower the age of consent to either the US standard (13 years) or GDPR standard (13-16 years), but the committee decided to leave the age of consent at 18 citing the Contract Act as the basis for this. “We are aware that from the perspective of the full, autonomous development of the child, the age of 18 may appear too high. However, consistency with the existing legal framework demands this formulation. Were the age of consent for the contract to reduce, a similar amendment may be effected here too,” the committee wrote.

“ Every data fiduciary shall process personal data of a child in such manner that protects the rights of the child” and “the data fiduciary shall, before processing of any personal data of a child, verify his age and obtain the consent of his parent or guardian, in such manner as may be specified by regulations,” the Bill stated.

“The data fiduciary shall be barred from profiling, tracking, or behavioural monitoring of, or targeted advertising directed at children and undertaking any other processing of personal data that can cause significant harm to the child,” the Bill stated.

However, this provision shall apply in a modified form, which the Data Protection Authority will specify, for data fiduciaries offering counselling or child protection services to a child, the Bill added.

According to the Bill, “harm” includes:

“Signifiant harm” is further defined as harm that has an “aggravated effect having regard to the nature of the personal data being processed, the impact, continuity, persistence or irreversibility of the harm.”

The concept of guardian data fiduciaries is absent in the Data Protection Bill 2021.

No exceptions for counselling or child protection services in the current draft. Instead, the Bill leaves it for the Data Protection Authority to specify modified regulations for data fiduciaries offering counselling or child protection services to a child.

The Bill does not provide a specific mechanism for verifying the child’s age, but says that any manner of verification must take into consideration:

Upon noticing that there is no consent option available to the child with respect to their personal data when they attain the age of majority, the JPC recommended that consent options may be included as rules to be framed by DPA rather than an amendment in the Bill. The committee suggested the following may be incorporated in the rules:

[gravityform id=”1″ title=”true” description=”true”]

Update, January 17, 2022, 1:50 pm: Added definition of “harm” and “significant harm” under sub-heading “What companies dealing with children’s data cannot do?”

Subscribe to MediaNama to get access to our ongoing coverage of the bill. Here is everything we have planned around the JPC report:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event