1. The petitioner, incarcerating upon his arrest in the FIR captioned above, came up
before this Court under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( CrPC ) seeking
bail. 2. In paragraph 23 of the petition, it is declared that the accused has no criminal
history. 3. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that the pre-trial incarceration would
cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. He further submits that the
co-accused Munni and Sanjida have also been granted bail by this Court and on the
ground of parity, the petitioner also deserve grant of bail. 4. The contention on behalf of the State is that bail encourages criminals. REASONING: 5. Brief facts of the case are that on 21.06.2021, the complainant gave a written
complaint to the police Station for taking action against Munni, Jakir alias Mota (the
present petitioner), Nishi and Sanjida. The complainant informed the police that
around one and half months earlier, he received a phone call from No.8814951623, a
girl spoke, who later on turned out to be Nishi (A3). Initially on one or two occasions, 1 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2022 20:48:59 ::: CRM-M-4837-2022 2 complainant refused to talk to the said girl but she kept on calling. Later on he started
talking to her. After talking for some time, Nishi (A3) kept on pressurizing the
complainant to meet her. Subsequently, the complainant met her on 15.06.2021 at
6:00 p.m. at Nuh Bus Stand. Nishi met the complainant and told him that she has to go
to Bhiwandi and asked him to drop her on his bike. Subsequently, on such allurement
the complainant agreed to drop her on his bike. After crossing the valley, Nishi told the
informant go via Silkho and when they reached near Railway Line, Village Gunawat,
which was an isolated place, Nishi told the informant to perform sex with her. She
further warned in case he does not do coitus, she will raise cries and will gather the
people. However, the informant didn't indulge in any bad act upon her and then Nishi
herself ripped her clothes and called Jakir and Munni at the spot. Jakir pointed a katta
on the informant's temple and snatched 4000-5000/- that he was carrying. Further
they asked the informant to give Rs.10 lacs otherwise they would involve him in false
case under section 376 IPC. The informant made an excuse to them that he has to
arrange the money by going home. On this assurance, they let him go. On 16.06.2021,
Munni made a phone call to the informant demanding the money. Even Sanjida, the
present petitioner was also involved in the conspiracy with the other three accused. On
17.06.2021, Munni visited his house and met his wife, who was unaware about the said
episode. On 18.06.2021, Munni again visited their house and offered to compromise
the matter provided they pay sum of Rs.10 lacs. On 20.06.2021, the three accused
called the informant and demanded Rs.4.5 lacs and threatened him, if the amount is
not paid to them, they will register a false case against the informant. Faced with this
situation, the informant thought it prudent to involve the police. The informant further
told that he had audio and video recording of the entire incident and Munni is the gang
leader and doing the business of honey trapping. He further told that Munni would be
coming to receive the money and she can be nabbed. Based on this, the police
registered the above-mentioned FIR. During the investigation, the police arrested the
present petitioner-Sanjidha. 6. The petitioner seeks bail also on parity. This court vide granting bail to co-
accused-Sanjida in CRM-M 49280 of 2021, observed in paragraph 8 in the following
terms:- 7. After that this court granted bail to other co-accused Munni in terms of paragraph
9 of order passed in CRM-M 375 of 2022, which is extracted as under:- 10. In the light of ratio of the judicial precedents mentioned above, the petitioner's
case does not fall in the category of cases where bail ought to be granted. 11. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner fails to make a case
for bail at this stage. 12. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. Petition dismissed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand disposed.