SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Every 40 minutes, a student in our country is found dead by suicide. And nobody gives a ****.
DATE: 2024-04-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1cea4op/every_40_minutes_a_student_in_our_country_is/

--- POST TEXT ---

But that's not all.

Most recently, a 100% iler, in jee mains 2024, Reddy, was said to have cheated in the April session, after scoring a measly 7% ile in January session (which equates to negative marks out of 300). Another 100% iler (both in Jan and April) said that Reddy, whose roll number was next to his in April session, asked about his January session marks before the test. After submitting, Reddy admitted that he had copied all 75 questions from his screen, hence securing the perfect percentile.

But that's not all.

A student in the CSE branch of IIT-B looked into his classmate, Shivam, seating arrangements on the day of jee advanced, after realising Shivam did not even know basic physics taught in 11th 12th grade, let alone IIT's course, but he had secured a rank of 151 in advanced. The seating arrangement data showed that he was seated next to AIR 21 on the day of the exam, making cheating an entirely possible scenario, further solidified by the fact that he had scored 78% ile in jee mains, which translates to 30 - 40 marks out of 300. So much for the most prestigious branch in the most prestigious engineering college of India.

But that's not all.

A JEE aspirant looked into electoral bond data and the number of crores submitted by coaching centres to media-affiliated political parties. I'll link his post in the comments.

Despite the overwhelming amount of evidence that these top scorers, and perhaps hundred more, have dishonestly gotten their ranks, the mainstream media is still painting them as god swear hard workers. Coaching centres are blatantly lying saying he got 'sick' on January exam, but consistently score 285+ in coaching tests. Media is a mere puppet under the hands of coaching mafias in India, like every other institution.

NTA, the testing agency is a blotch on our education. In January session of 2024, the candidates distribution had wide disparities. Some shifts required 170/300 for 99% ile, while some required 240+ for the same percentile, in the same sessions, just one day apart. Whether a student gets a college that they've worked for years or not, simply depends on their luck of shifts.

Upon enquiry, NTA released the data of the number of students appearing in each shift, but it was inconsistent with the actual number of candidates who appeared. NTA is not answerable or held accountable since most of the students are minors.

A picture of a computer screen taken from phone was uploaded on the internet. The picture was a jee mains question, taken in real time as the exam was happening. The picture was uploaded online as the very same exam was going on. Somebody had their phone in the centre, asked for help online, and the got lucky with the invigilator.

Accessing a student's data from NTA's site is child's play. All you need is their application number. All personal information including mobile numbers, addresses, school name, parents' names, aadhar number, annual income range can easily be obtained, without any coding knowledge. Privacy is a joke, for an agency which conducts exams of over 30+ lakh students every year in Jee and Neet.

New education policy prohibited coachings from admitting students under the age of 16, but under the table, all the centres have paid lump amounts of money to the govt that they suck from middle-class parents. Look around, 6th graders are going to coaching now.

For the ground reality, it's almost comical how we're so desensitized over the fact that students are literally ending their lives over not being able to clear one exam. More than 35 students suicide per day, every single day, and nobody cares at all. So much for the elections and corruption and EDs and their goddamn religions, but not even a single political has the guts to offer condolences to the parents, to the students, to the youth and future of the country. None of them care to save our lives. We. Are. Just. Kids. People of this country too. We deserve living too. Our lives have just started. Most of us have not even hit puberty before they put the burden of a future and college and job on our shoulders. Why is our plea not being heard by anybody?? Not the government, not the testing agency, not the coaching, not our teachers, not even our parents.

Where are we really, as a country, heading towards?