The petitioners are before this Court seeking quashment of

entire proceedings in Crime No.31 of 2018 and C.C.No.221 of

2019 registered for offences punishable under Sections 498A , 323 , 504 , 506 r/w Section 34 of the IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of

the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 ('the Act' for short). 2. Heard Sri.T.M.Nadaf, learned counsel appearing for

petitioners and Sri.Ramesh Chigari, learned High Court 4 Government Pleader appearing for respondent No.1,

Sri.Shriharsh.A.Neelopant and Sri.G.N.Joshi, learned counsel

appearing for respondent No.2. 3. Facts as projected by the prosecution in brief are as

follows: 4. The marriage between the 2nd respondent and accused

No.1 takes place on 22-05-2013. It appears that the couple after

marriage began to reside at Pune. The relationship between the

2nd respondent and accused No.1 has irretrievably turned sore 5 which led to certain proceedings initiated against each other. The proceedings initiated by the 2nd respondent /complainant

against accused No.1 are - one invoking Section 125 of the

Cr.P.C. seeking maintenance, second under the Protection of

Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 including the

petitioners and the third one under Section 9 of the Hindu

Marriage Act, 1956 seeking restitution of conjugal rights. The

present dispute involves proceedings initiated pursuant to

complaint registered on 20-06-2018 for offences punishable

under the provisions as afore-quoted. Pursuant to investigation

the Police have also filed a charge sheet in the case at hand and

the case is now registered as C.C.No.221 of 2019 before the

JMFC-II, Belagavi. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners

submits that the narration in the entire complaint nowhere

points out any offence against any of the petitioners. It is not in

dispute that the couple after marriage lived at Pune and the

mother-in-law and father-in-law, petitioners 1 and 2 lived at 6 Belagavi and Petitioners 5 and 6 also lived at Belagavi, but

separately. It is only petitioners 3 and 4 who stayed in Pune but

never with the couple. Therefore, he would submit that entire

allegations of the 2nd respondent are only against accused No.1

and other members of the family who are not even connected to

the affairs of the couple are dragged into the proceedings. There

are no allegations against any other member of the family who

are sisters-in-law and her husband who are not even connected

to the affairs of the couple. The petitioners are unnecessarily

dragged into the proceedings in a squabble between the 2nd

respondent and accused No.1. 6. It is not in dispute that the 2nd respondent has initiated

various proceedings against accused No.1/husband and a few

against family members. Against accused No.1 the 2nd

respondent has filed proceedings under Section 125 of the

Cr.P.C. seeking maintenance. Second petition filed by the 2nd

respondent is invoking provisions of the Domestic Violence Act

against accused No.1, mother-in-law, father-in-law and sister in- law and the third petition initiated is complete contrary to what

is earlier initiated viz., seeking restitution of conjugal rights

under Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act. During the

pendency of these proceedings, the complainant again registers

the subject complaint on 20.06.2018. Therefore, the 2nd

respondent has blown hot and cold on every occasion and

registered criminal proceedings against her husband and in-laws

and other members of the family. 7. Insofar as the husband/accused No.1 is concerned, the

complaint does narrate some incidents. Insofar as other

members of the family are concerned, there is nothing that can

be said to be touching upon the offences alleged. Therefore, the

present proceedings, if permitted to continue against the

petitioners, would be an abuse of the process of law. The view of

mine, in this regard, is fortified by the judgment of the Apex

Court in the case of KAHKASHAN KAUSAR @ SONAM AND 8 OTHERS v. STATE OF BIHAR AND OTHERS1 wherein it is held

as under: 14. Previously, in the landmark judgment of this court
in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar5 , it was also observed:-- 15. Further in Preeti Gupta v. State of Jharkhand , it
has also been observed:-- 16. In Geeta Mehrotra v. State of UP7 , it was
observed:-- 17. Recently, in K. Subba Rao v. The State of
Telangana , it was also observed that:-- 18. The above-mentioned decisions clearly
demonstrate that this court has at numerous instances
expressed concern over the misuse of section 498A IPC and 13 the increased tendency of implicating relatives of the
husband in matrimonial disputes, without analysing the
long term ramifications of a trial on the complainant as well
as the accused. It is further manifest from the said
judgments that false implication by way of general omnibus
allegations made in the course of matrimonial dispute, if left
unchecked would result in misuse of the process of law.
Therefore, this court by way of its judgments has warned
the courts from proceeding against the relatives and in-laws
of the husband when no prima facie case is made out
against them. 19. Coming to the facts of this case, upon a perusal of
the contents of the FIR dated 01.04.19, it is revealed that
general allegations are levelled against the Appellants. The
complainant alleged that 'all accused harassed her mentally
and threatened her of terminating her pregnancy'.
Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations have been
made against either of the Appellants herein, i.e., none of the
Appellants have been attributed any specific role in
furtherance of the general allegations made against them.
This simply leads to a situation wherein one fails to
ascertain the role played by each accused in furtherance of
the offence. The allegations are therefore general and
omnibus and can at best be said to have been made out on
account of small skirmishes. Insofar as husband is
concerned, since he has not appealed against the order of
the High court, we have not examined the veracity of
allegations made against him. However, as far as the
Appellants are concerned, the allegations made against
them being general and omnibus, do not warrant
prosecution. 20. Furthermore, regarding similar allegations of
harassment and demand for car as dowry made in a
previous FIR. Respondent No. 1 i.e., the State of Bihar,
contends that the present FIR pertained to offences
committed in the year 2019, after assurance was given by
the husband Md. Ikram before the Ld. Principal Judge 14 Purnea, to not harass the Respondent wife herein for dowry,
 and treat her properly. However, despite the assurances, all
 accused continued their demands and harassment. It is
 thereby contended that the acts constitute a fresh cause of
 action and therefore the FIR in question herein dated
 01.04.19, is distinct and independent, and cannot be termed
 as a repetition of an earlier FIR dated 11.12.17. 21. Here it must be borne in mind that although
 the two FIRs may constitute two independent
 instances, based on separate transactions, the present
 complaint fails to establish specific allegations
 against the in-laws of the Respondent wife. Allowing
 prosecution in the absence of clear allegations against
 the in-laws Appellants would simply result in an abuse
 of the process of law. 22. Therefore, upon consideration of the relevant
 circumstances and in the absence of any specific role
 attributed to the accused appellants, it would be
 unjust if the Appellants are forced to go through the
 tribulations of a trial, i.e., general and omnibus
 allegations cannot manifest in a situation where the
 relatives of the complainant's husband are forced to
 undergo trial. It has been highlighted by this court in
 varied instances, that a criminal trial leading to an
 eventual acquittal also inflicts severe scars upon the
 accused, and such an exercise must therefore be
 discouraged." (Emphasis supplied)
In the light of the facts obtaining in the case at hand and the

judgment rendered by the Apex Court (supra), further

proceedings against the petitioners cannot be permitted to

continue and if permitted, would result in miscarriage of justice. 8. For the aforesaid reasons, I pass the following: Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ