In a precedent-setting case, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment filed an insurance claim for losses caused by the piracy of Salman Khan’s film ‘Sikandar’, released in March 2025. Ernst & Young (EY), a US-based auditing firm, estimated the financial loss from the leak at Rs. 91 crore, according to a Money Control report.

The so-called “leaked” copy wasn’t a typical camcorder leak but was high-definition (HD) quality. The producers claim that someone revealed the film before its theatrical release. They also claim that the leaked version included deleted scenes and incomplete VFX, which the original version shown in theatres did not have.

“Piracy is a menace. This will wake up the industry,” said producer Rahul Mittra, who has produced at least nine films. “As a producer, I will be more careful with my future films,” he added. The question remains: Can filmmakers claim insurance for online piracy and illegal leaks? If so, what will happen if all producers seek to claim insurance for high-risk actions like online piracy?

It is a type of insurance policy that comes under general insurance. This policy can protect the movie against any unforeseen losses, including natural calamities, damage to the equipment used, and even losses caused due to illness of the actors, according to Naval Goel, CEO of PolicyX, an aggregator of insurance policies.

Goel provides an overview of what film insurance covers and what it does not. This type of insurance offers broad protection for various risks during production, including personal accident coverage for actors and crew members, property damage, loss of money and baggage, third-party liabilities, and costs for reshoots caused by errors or omissions, a type of liability coverage that protects businesses against claims for mistakes made while providing professional services.

However, film insurance typically does not cover damages resulting from mechanical breakdowns, wear and tear of equipment, inventory shortages, or human errors, especially accidental erasure of recordings.

“Insurance coverage for films is very, very important for the producers. These days, even provisions like Distributor’s Loss of Profit and Error and Omission policies are getting popular,” said Poonam Rawat, Associate VP at SafeTee, an insurance broker company. Insurance against piracy of the movie can typically be claimed under these provisions, not under general insurance liabilities, she added.

Rawat, who provides insurance to multiple production houses, explained the provision under which production houses can file a claim for piracy. “We have general liability insurance coverage for the shoots, which usually includes the illness of the crew, natural calamities, property damage, and a few other things. Apart from this, we also have Distributors’ Loss of Profit, under which the producer may claim for the loss that occurred due to any unforeseen activities, like sudden riots and national emergencies,” she said.

However, she affirmed that most insurance firms don’t include piracy under this provision at the risk underwriting level itself. “Because the risk is so high. So, piracy, including copyright infringement, intellectual property, and trademark violation, generally doesn’t get covered.”

Typically, piracy doesn’t get covered in this industry because it’s a criminal offence, said the SafeTee VP. “Yes, piracy is a criminal offence. However, copyright infringement is a criminal as well as a civil offence. It all depends on the exclusions they agreed to,” said Ranjana Adhikari, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co.

However, Ajay Kumar, an advocate at Tirumvir, explained the nature of general liability insurance, which can also cover crimes. He affirmed that piracy can be insured, depending on the agreed terms between the insurance company and the insured production house.

“You can take insurance against anything. Wherever there is a risk factor, you can get insurance. The premium you pay depends on the risk factor of what you are insuring against,” he clarified. “But the possibility of the insurance claim always depends on the terms that both parties agreed upon.”

Nonetheless, Rawat further explained that the producers can still claim if they can prove employee infidelity. She was referring to a probable malicious act of an employee from the insured production house to leak the film.

She acknowledged the possibility of the leak from inside the industry, considering the alleged presence of footage not present in the final theatrical version of the film ‘Sikandar’. “It all depends on how they present the case. But, in this case, how do they prove the source of the leak?” she asked. “It could’ve happened from anywhere. The burden of proof lies with the insured producer,” she reminded.

“The general principle of any insurance is that you need to protect yourself. So, the production house also needs to prove that they took required protective measures to prevent the leak—if it did,” said Ajay.

“The producer must prove that basic safeguarding measures, such as digital footprinting, DRM, and watermarking, were in place to protect the content,” said Adhikari, a lawyer specialising in technology and media entertainment.

“Because, once the film is out in the theatres, the risk of the movie pirating becomes very high. So, the insurance companies may not cover it. Again, it all depends on their agreement,” said Ajay.

“It is still a nascent stage to comment on this particular case. Because we need to understand what actually led to piracy. Was the producer directly or indirectly involved in the piracy? Were the high-standard measures taken to protect the content against leaking?” asked Adhikari.

As Producer Rahul Mittra rightly said, piracy is a persistent menace in the entertainment industry, accounting for losses that go as far as Rs. 22,400 crore, according to EY and the Internet and Mobile Association of India’s report . As cinema producers and OTT platforms continue to fight against online piracy, the case of ‘Sikandar’ comes off as a novel approach to deal with losses incurred by the producers and platforms due to online piracy.

For example, Integro Insurance Brokers, a UK-based insurance firm, offers Piracy Protection Insurance to cover revenue loss from digital piracy for films and television content. The insurance company partners with industries, including finance and law enforcement, to help “return lost revenue to the rights holder.”

However, all the sources we spoke to for this story acknowledged that risk factors are very high, which is the reason for the reluctance of insurance companies to include piracy as a coverable claim despite the growing popularity of insurance in film productions. Nevertheless, the ‘Sikandar’ case suggests a potential solution to combat online piracy.

Meanwhile, the burden of providing the evidence of “theft” (read leak) by Nadiawala Entertainment remains a key factor in determining the case’s outcome.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event