Counter affidavit filed is taken on record. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. The submission is that the victim is aged about 46 years. She is foreign national and has alleged that the applicant befriended her and thereafter taking her in confidence took her to Lucknow for the purpose of renewal of Visa. Allegation has been made that applicant committed rape on her. It has further been submitted that earlier also the same incident was committed by the applicant against victim wherein she entered into compromise at police station and took Rs. 10,000/-. It has been alleged that the applicant has been falsely implicated in this case again for extracting money from him. He is a government servant and is in jail since 20.09.2019. The applicant has no criminal history to his credit. Per contra Sri Shashi Shekhar Mishra and Learned A.G.A. have vehemently opposed the bail application. Sri Shashi Shekhar Mishra, counsel for the informant has filed counter affidavit stating that the applicant along with co-accused, Akash Pawar, committed the alleged crime. The victim is a foreign national and married to an Indian and the applicant committed the alleged crime on the victim. Counsel for the informant has further submittedthat the FIR was lodged by the victim on true facts. Thereafter she in her statement under Section 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. proved the version of the FIR. Victim is major lady, but it does not means that any one can rape with her and till date the applicant and his friend, Akash Pawar, failed to show why the informant falsely implicated them in the crime in question. There is no enmity between the informant and applicant and his friend. It is further submitted that theinformant is a foreigner and she left hercountry Russia and came to India and married an Indian citizen, healso deceived her. Thereafter the applicant and his friend committed rape with her and also made her nude video clip. Under fear of saidvideo they started blackmailing her and regularly committed rapeon her. It is further submitted that the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Mathura, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case and evidence on record, rightly rejected the bail application of the applicantwith the observation that the crime which was committed bythe applicant and his friend defamed the culture of India as the victim is a foreigner lady and guest of the Nation. The applicant is a police personnel and after being released on bail he can use his power and position and may threaten the witnesses and also tamper the evidence collected against him. After considering the rival submissions noted hereinabove, larger mandate of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and the material brought on record and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the facts and circumstances of the case, I am of the opinion that the applicant is entitled to be released on bail. Let the applicant- Dharmendra Giri, be released on bail in Case Crime No. 679 of 2019, under Sections- 376(2)(n), 506 IPC , Police Station- Kotwali, District- Mathura, be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice :- In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. Identity, status and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the court concerned before the bonds are accepted. Trial court shall make all efforts to conclude the trial against the applicant within a period of one year. Order Date :- 2.12.2019 /Rohit