We are pleased to announce the “Chief Privacy Officer Roundtable” panel (October 7) at MediaNama’s PrivacyNama conference. Our speakers will share their experience in navigating data protection regulations globally, for our audience of stakeholders in India and across the world.

We’ll be in conversation with Ali Khan (ZS), Ivana Bartoletti (Wipro), and Monika Tomczak-Gorlikowska (Prosus). Rahul Narayan (Advocate, Supreme Court) will chair this session.

Session: Chief Privacy Officer Roundtable Date: October 7, 2022 Time: 4:45 PM – 5:45 PM IST

This is an invite-only event. Please register here to attend.

Ali Khan: Ali has global responsibility for ZS’ internal information security and privacy governance, risk, compliance and internal audit processes. He is accountable for maintaining ZS Information Security and Privacy certifications, attestations and management systems for global ZS offices, infrastructure, corporate and enterprise teams. Ali oversees GRC and Internal Audit Strategy & Operations, Application Security & Privacy Governance, Third Party Risk Management, Internal Risk and Compliance Management, maintenance of ZS’ integrated management system working along with internal ZS teams and acting as ZS’ audit liaison with third party auditors.

Prior to his current role, Ali led the Risk Management and Compliance teams at an IT Enabled Service Provider leading teams across North America, Asia, Europe and Africa. He is a seasoned Risk & Compliance Management expert honing multiple Lead Auditor, Industry certifications along with recognition from the Information Security fraternity in form of awards and accolades. Apart from his work work delivery he likes to spread awareness around Diversity, Equity and Inclusion through thought leadership, contributing to ZS DEI objectives.

Ali is an avid reader and active participant in various global information security and privacy organisations. He is an active contributor for the H-ISAC, Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center participating in multiple work group committes, CXO and CIO focus groups that collaborate on best practice implementation & sharing, and he has won multiple awards & accreditions through the InfoSec Maestros, CIO Axis, CISO Connect, US OSPA to demonstrate effective leadership skills in his domain. He is an active participant in various industry conferences and also follows the DSCI updates carefully. He contributes to internal firm awareness through though leadership blogs and white papers.

Ivana Bartoletti: Ivana Bartoletti is the Global Data Privacy Officer at Wipro, the leading international information technology, consulting and business process services company. Ivana is an internationally recognised thought leader in the fields of privacy, data protection and responsible technology. She has many years of experience working for large organizations in privacy policy, strategy and programmes related to digital transformation, cloud and automation. The Cyber Security Awards named her Woman of the Year (2019).

As a Visiting Policy Fellow at the University of Oxford, her research focuses on how to advance the global sharing of information in the context of privacy, security, data protection and human rights. Ivana is co-editor of The AI Book, a handbook for investors, entrepreneurs and fintech visionaries and is author of An Artificial Revolution, on Power, Politics and AI. She is founder of the influential Women Leading in AI network. A sought-after subject expert, Ivana is interviewed frequently in the mainstream media and speaks at many international events. An interview about her book is available here. You can know more on her website: www.ivanabartoletti.co.uk

Monika Tomczak-Gorlikowska: Monika Gorlikowska is the Chief Privacy Officer of Prosus N.V. – a global consumer internet group and one of the largest technology investors in the world. She is based in Amsterdam and previously was the Senior Data Privacy Legal Counsel with Shell International Limited in London. She has practice data privacy law for more than 20 years. Monika is a licensed attorney (adwokat) and in the past was in private practice, amongst others with the offices of Miller, Canfield in Poland.

In addition to the law studies, she has also received a Master of European Law degree (LLM cum laude) from the Law Department of the College of Europe in Brugge (Belgium). Monika also served as Co-Chair of the Steering Committee of the Forum on International Privacy Law and currently a member of the Steering Committee. Monika has also worked for the Legal Service of the General Secretariat of the Council of the EU in Brussels.

Rahul Narayan: Rahul Narayan was admitted to the Bar in 2004 and qualified as an advocate-on-record in the Supreme Court in 2011. He has worked extensively in the field of technology and the law and has acted for clients in matters involving intermediary liability, digital rights, privacy and surveillance in courts.

He was part of the litigation team working on the right to privacy case, the aadhaar case and the Pegasus scandal. He has also advised clients extensively on the legal framework for privacy, data protection and the intermediary guidelines. He has contributed a chapter on Fake News and Free Speech in a book called The Future of Democracy in the Shadow of Big and emerging Technology published by the CCG NLU and the Fredrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom in 2021.

He has been interviewed on television in connection with his work on data protection and privacy on news channels such as Mirror Now, Times Now, NDTV, NewsX, WION, Mojo Story and others and has also been quoted in various Indian and international newspapers including the New York Times, the Hindu, Indian Express, Economic Times, Times of India, Business Standard, Live Mint, and others. He completed post graduate studies at Oxford University UK where he obtained the degree of BCL (Oxon.). He is also a qualified solicitor in England and Wales.

PrivacyNama 2022 Day 1 | October 6 (IST)

PrivacyNama 2022 Day 2 | October 7 (IST)

Apply to attend the Day 1 and Day 2 discussions here.

PrivacyNama 2022 Day 3 Workshop | October 11 (IST)

Apply to attend the workshop here.

This is an invite-only conference, so don’t forget to apply to attend the discussions and the workshop. Please feel free to suggest points of discussion and questions you think ought to be raised, in the application form.

MediaNama’s subscriber-members get priority access to all our events and activities. You can subscribe to MediaNama here to support our work.

Important:

This is an advertisement for MediaNama’s event. MediaNama’s Native Advertising policy can be seen here , and past ads here .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event