(PER : HONOURABLE DR.JUSTICE A. P. THAKER) Page 1 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT 1. Heard learned counsels for the parties. As the counsels for the
parties have exchanged their pleadings and argued the matter
extensively for final disposal, this matter is being heard and
disposed of finally. 2. The present petition has been preferred by the petitioners
under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for the following
prayers. A. This Hon'ble Court be pleased to issue a writ of certiorari or a
 writ in the nature of certiorari, so as to quash and set aside
 Impugned Final Finding No.7/16/2018-DGAD dated 29.01.2019
 along with Disclosure Statement dated 15.01.2019 issued
 by the Respondent no.2 and annexed at Annexure - G and H
 hereto; and

 B. Pending admission, hearing and final disposal of this petition,
 this Hon'ble Court be pleased to direct Respondent No.3 not
 to refrain from taking any steps in furtherance of the
 Impugned Final Finding dated 29.01.2019 issued by it and
 annexed as Annexure - G and Annexure - H hereto; C. Pending admission, hearing and final disposal of this petition,
 this Hon'ble Court be pleased to direct the Respondent nos.1
 to 4 to ensure that subject goods that may be cleared are duly
 accounted for and further the importers be notified about
 pendency of the present petition before this Hon'ble Court
 and subject to the outcome of the same; D. Ad-interim reliefs in terms of prayers (B) and (C) above; E. Ex parte ad-interim reliefs in terms of prayer (D) above; F. For cost; and

 G. Such other and further orders as may be considered fit and
 expedient in the facts of the case be passed. 3. It is contended that the petitioner No.1 is a company
incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and is
engaged in the business of manufacturing "Paracetamol"
(hereinafter be referred to as "the subject goods) in the State of
Gujarat and petitioner No.2 is a shareholder of petitioner No.1 and
concerned with the day to day activities of the company. Whereas,
respondent No.1 is the Ministry of Commerce, Government of India
and control respondent No.2, the Designated Authority (DA) is Page 2 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

functioning and respondent No.4 is a Central Board of Indirect Taxes
and Customs is the Nodal National Agency Responsible for
Administering Customs, GST, Central Excise, Service Tax and
Narcotics in India. It is contended that respondent No.2 is the
Designated Authority constituted under the provisions of Rule 3 of
the Customs Tariff (Identification, Assessment and Collection of Anti-
Dumping Duty on Dumped Articles and for Determination of Injury)
Rules, 1995 (hereinafter be referred to as "the Rules") and carried
out its duties and functioning of a quasi judicial authority as
provided under Rule 6 of the Rules. 3.1 It is contended by the petitioners that the India being a
signatory to World Trade Organization and also a party to the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 1994 which provides the principles
and procedure of determination and imposition of Anti-Dumping
Duties and methodology for determination thereof etc. It is
contended that Section 9A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975
(hereinafter be referred to as "the Act") envisages the imposition
of a duty namely Anti-Dumping Duty on the margin of dumping on
an article exported to India where its export price is less than its
normal value. It is contended that Section 9A(6) thereof also
provides for determination of margin of dumping and imposition of
such duty and necessity of conducting inquiry and duty. It is
contended that Rules also provide for determining likelihood of
continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury. 3.2 It is contended that the subject goods is a common analgesic
and antipathetic drug that is used for the relief of fever, headache
and other minor aches and pains. According to the petitioners,
producers - exporters from China PR (hereinafter be referred to as
"the subject country") were exporting the subject goods to India
for quite sometime and dumping intensified during 2001. Due to
that Domestic Industry (hereinafter be referred to as "the DI") Page 3 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

requested imposition of Anti-dumping Duty (hereinafter be referred
to as "the ADD") on the imports of subject goods. Thereafter, on
the basis of the inquiry conducted by respondent No.2, a Final
Finding Notification No.60/1/2000-DGAD dated 22.01.2002 was
issued recommending imposition of ADD. The definitive anti-
dumping duties in the form of benchmark were imposed by
respondent No.2. It is contended that at the end of 5th year, the DI
filed an application for 'sunset review" in the year 2006 whereupon
investigation was initiated by respondent No.2 to examine whether
the expiry of the duty would lead to continuation or recurrence of
dumping and inquiry. Respondent No.3 vide its Notification
No.83/2006 extended the definitive Anti-dumping Duties in terms of
Section 9A(5) for a period of one year up to 05.09.2007. 3.3 It is contended by the petitioners that after conducting a
detailed investigation, respondent No.2 issued final finding vide its
Notification No.15/20/2006-DGAD recommending continuation of
ADD. In pursuance thereof, respondent No.3 issued Notification
No.99/2007-Customs (ADD) levying ADD for a further period of five
years. 3.4 It is contended by the petitioners that despite imposition of
ADD, the imports from China continued to enter market in dumped
prices and, therefore, being aggrieved towards the end of the 5th
year, again the representative of the Domestic Industry approached
respondent No.2 in accordance with Section 9A(5) of the Act read
with Rule23 of the Rules. Thereafter, being prima facie satisfied, the
DA initiated a sunset review investigation vide Notification
No.14/1009/2012-DGAD to review the need for continued imposition
of duties in respect of the subject goods originating in or exported
from the subject country and to examine whether the expiry of such
duty is likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping and
injury to the DI and, thereafter, the validity of the anti-dumping duty
on the imports of the subject goods from the subject country was Page 4 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

extended upto 02.09.2013 by respondent No.3 vide Notification
No.42/2012-Customs(ADD). That after conducting detailed
investigation, respondent No.2 issued Final Finding
No.14/1009/2012-DGAD recommending extension of duties in
revised form changing from bench mark of duty to fix form of duty
to provide adequate protection to the DI. In pursuance thereof,
respondent No.1 issued Notification No.26/2013-Customs dated
28.10.2013 imposing fixed form of ADD for a period of another five
years i.e. 27.10.2018. 3.5 According to the petitioners, despite the change in the form of
ADD, the dumping continuous from subject country which forced the
petitioners along with Shri Krishna Pharmaceuticals Ltd to again
approached the authority with duly substantiated application on
behalf of DI for extension of the ADD with prima facie evidence of
likelihood of dumping and injury in accordance with law. It is
contended by the petitioners that respondent No.2 provided pre-
initiation hearing to petitioner No.1 on 14.05.2018 and, thereafter,
the DI filed detailed submission on 17.05.2018. Pursuant to that
respondent No.2 initiated the sunset review vide Notification
No.07/16/208-DGAD to review the need for continued imposition of
the duties in force in respect of the subject goods originating in or
exported from the subject country and to examine whether the
expiry of such duty is likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of
dumping and injury to the domestic industry. That pending such
sunset review, the anti-dumping duties imposed earlier have been
extended by respondent No.3 for a period of six months i.e. upto
26.04.2019 vide Notification No.29/2018-Customs (ADD) dated
20.08.2018. It is contended that on 29.08.2018, respondent No.2
granted public / oral hearing to all the interested parties to present
their views orally and on 07.09.2018, petitioner No.1 submitted a
detailed written submission justifying the need for the continuation
of the duty. respondent No.2 issued Disclosure Statement under the provisions
of Rule 16 of the Rules, which require disclosure of essential facts
received and interpreted by it which are under consideration for the
purpose of arriving at a final conclusion. According to the petitioner,
therefore, it filed its comments on the disclosure statement
submitting that the disclosure statement is incomplete as it has not
addressed the certain major submission made by petitioner No.1
and requested the authority to disclose the essential facts before
issuing the Final Finding. However, respondent No.2, without
appreciating the submission made by petitioner No.1 issued
impugned Final Finding vide Notification F No.7/16/2018-DGAD
where DA has finally decided not to continue the ADD and thereby
rejected / ignored all the submissions made on behalf of petitioner
No.1. 3.7 According to the petitioners, respondent No.2 i.e. DA has
issued Disclosure Statement as follows. i. Product under Consideration and Like Article : The
 product under consideration in the present Sunset Review
 investigation is Paracetamol and the goods produced by the
 Domestic Industry and imported from the subject country
 are like articles in terms of the Rule 2(d) of the Anti-
 Dumping Rules. ii. Standing: M/s. Farmson Pharmaceuticals Gujarat Private
 Limited and M/s. Sri Krishna Pharmaceuticals Limited
 constitutes "a major proportion of total Indian production" i. Evidence on record do not indicate that the dumped
 imports from China will lead to injury to Domestic Industry. ii. Import of the subject goods from China PR has remained at
 insignificant level throughout the injury period. iii. Domestic Industry failed to substantiate its claim in relation
 to likelihood of injury to the domestic industry if the current
 ADD ceases to exist. iv. The domestic injury has shown improvement in terms of all
 injury parameters and there is no injury to the Domestic
 industry. Furthermore, the production of subject goods by
 domestic industry is sufficient to cater to Indian demand. v. The analysis of the price attractiveness by the Authority
 does not position India as price attractive for Chinese
 Exports so far as subject goods are concerned. vi. The ADD was in force since September, 2001 and the
 condition of domestic industry has improved. Therefore, the
 ADD has served its intended purpose. P. Recommendation 127. The Authority notes that the investigation was initiated and
 notified to all interested parties and adequate opportunity
 was given to domestic industry, exporters, importers, users
 and other interested parties to provide relevant information
 on the aspect of dumping, injury and causal link. Having
 initiated and conducted the investigation into dumping,
 injury, causal link and likelihood of dumping post cessation
 of ADD in force in terms of the provisions laid down under
 the Anti Dumping Act and Rules, the Authority holds that
 Domestic Industry failed to provide any satisfactory
 evidence that the expiry of the said anti-dumping duty is
 likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping and
 injury to the domestic industry due to reasons and/or
 analysis given above. Therefore, the Authority does not
 recommend continuation of the anti-dumping duty on the
 imports of subject goods from China PR. 4. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid impugned
Final Findings, the petitioners have challenged the same on the
following main grounds. violating the principles of natural justice and
 denying the domestic industry an opportunity to
 defend its interests. (b) Impugned Final Finding is a non-speaking order
 and does not address all the issues and
 concerns raised by the domestic industry in
 violation of the requirements of reasoned
 explanation under Rule 17 of the Anti-Dumping
 Rules. (c) Error on the part of respondent No.2 in
 considering import as insignificant which
 constituted 98% of the total import and 6% of
 consumption in India. (d) Conclusions arrived at by respondent No.2 are
 contrary to the facts showing likelihood of injury
 to domestic industry in the event of revocation
 of duty. (e) Current / continued injury to the domestic
 industry not a mandatory pre-condition in
 sunset review investigation conducted under
 Section 9A(%) of the Act read with Rule 23 of
 the Rules. (f) In an anti-dumping investigation, once the
 domestic industry has provided prima facie
 sufficient evidence of likelihood of dumping and
 injury and the Designated Authority has
 initiated investigation then the onus to show
 absence of likelihood of dumping and injury is
 on the exporters. (g) Failure on the part of respondent No.2 to note
 that the domestic industry is vulnerable due to Page 9 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 price sensitivity of the product in Indian market. (h) Failure on the part of respondent No.2 to
 consider the fact that the domestic industry is
 effectively protected for a period of last five
 years and not since September 2001. (i) The impugned Final Finding has been issued in
 gross violation of the principles of natural
 justice and has prevented the petitioners from
 effectively defending its interests (j) For a period of which anti-dumping is levied
 cannot be ground for the termination of Anti-
 Dumping Duties. 5. At the initial stage, this Court has passed the following order
on 13.03.2019:- 6. Thereafter, this Court has passed the following order on
11.04.2019:- On 13.03.2019, this Court passed the following order: The matter may be posted for hearing on 12.6.2019 and the
parties shall exchange their pleadings, if any, in the meantime so
that on 12.6.2019 the matter can be taken up peremptorily. 5. It would be open for the petitioner to serve copy of the order
to the Director, Tax Research Unit, Department of Commerce, Page 12 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 Ministry of Finance for compliance. Direct service today is permitted. 8. This Court has passed the following order on 20.06.2019:- 9. Learned advocate for the petitioners has placed on record the
brief submissions, which verbatim reproduced as under:- Determination of Dumping Margin for china PR as a
 whole. a) Comparing the normal value and export price at ex-
 factory level for the country as a whole, the dumping margin Page 13 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 for the subject country is determined as below: it has been observed that out of total imports of china PR i.e
 *** MT *** % imports are dumped and *** % are injurious. 2. The Dumping margin is the difference between the
 Normal Value and export price. In the facts of the present
 case, the Normal Value has been determined based on the
 information furnished by the petitioner, which has been
 disclosed to the petitioner. However, export price based on
 DGCI&S data which, are available in public domain ought to
 have been disclosed to the petitioners. 3. Similarly, injury parameters have been determined
 based on the information furnished by the petitioner no. 1
 ( para 60 to 80 of the Impugned Final Ending (page nos. 265
 to 279) the respondent no. 2 ought to have disclosed these
 figures to he petitioners. Further conclusion based on these
 information cannot be kept confidential from petitioners as
 held int he following judgments: 4. During the course of final hearing, respondent no. 2
 has tendered a printout of alleged email sent to petitioner
 no.1 and contended that all the information has been shared
 with petitioner no.1. At the outset, it is submitted that such
 contention or a copy of the email have not by respondent no.2
 in its affidavit-in-reply. 5. It is submitted that petitioner no.1 has received
 information only pertaining to construction of Normal Value
 and break down of non-injurious price (NIP) as is evident from
 the content of mail itself. However, it did not receive any
 information pertaining to injury parameters which was
 claimed confidential and asterisk mark were used int he
 disclosure statement and impugned final finding despite the
 fact that the information has been furnished by the domestic Page 14 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 industry itself. the computation of the various factors referred
 in (para 60 to 80 of the impugned final finding (page nos 265
 to 279)] has not been furnished to the domestic industry. 6. It was incumbent upon respondent no. 2 to furnish
 the relevant facts which have been used by it as the basis for
 arriving at its conclusion on the essential facts for the
 purpose of arriving at a decision as to whether or not the
 definitive measures are required to be applied. Non-disclosure
 of the essential facts is therefore, clearly in breach of the
 principles of natural justice. II THE IMPUGNED FINAL FINDING IS BAD IN LAW AND
 PERVERSE AND BASED ON EXTRANEOUS FACTORS: 7. The present case being a sunset review
 investigation, the respondent no. 2 was required to examine
 the likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping or
 injury, as provided under proviso to Section 9A(5), extracted
 herein below: 8. Respondent no. 2 has acted in violation of the
 provisions of section 9A (5) of the Act read with Rule 23 of
 the Rules in as much as it has lent unwarranted weightage to
 the fact that the petitioner No.1/Domestic Industry is
 allegedly not suffering injury during the current period. While
 issuing the impugned final finding, respondent no.2 stated
 that "the domestic injury has shown improvement in terms of
 all injury parameters and there is no injury to the Domestic
 industry". [Para-126(3) of Impugned Final findings (page no. 281)]. 9. The assessment whether injury will continue, or
 recur, would entail a counter-factual analysis of future
 events, based on projected levels of dumped imports, prices
 and impact on domestic industry. Therefore, in a sunset
 review investigation respondent no. 2 needs to address the
 question as to whether the domestic industry is likely to be
 materially injured again, if duties are lifted. Respondent No. 2
 has therefore, failed to appreciated the fact that if the anti-
 dumping duty has had the desired effect, the condition of the
 domestic industry is expected to have improved during the
 period anti-dumping duty was in force. III THE IMPUGNED FINAL FINDING ARE
 DIAMETRICALLY OPPOSITE TO THE ESSENTIAL FACTS
 RECORDED INT HE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND
 FINAL FINDING: C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT 10. Following are essential facts recorded in the
 impugned final findings which are diametrically opposite to
 conclusions reached by respondent : * Imports are 5.84% (above diminimus level)
 (paragraph no.62 table at page no.265); and
 * Rule 14(d) at defines volume of significant import
 (page no.99)
 1 (b) Sufficient freely Domestic Industry failed
 disposable, or an imminent, to substantiate its claim
 substantial increase in, in relation to likelihood
 capacity of the exporter of injury to the domestic
 indicating the likelihood of industry if the current
 substantially increased ADD ceases to exist. Conclusions arrived by Respondent no.2 are contrary to the
 facts showing likelihood of injury to domestic industry in the
 event of revocation of duty. Despite the fact and evidences
 brought by the petitioner and examination of the evidences
 by Respondent no.2 clearly showing that likelihood of
 dumping and injury in the event of cessation of anti-
 dumping duty, the Respondent no.2 went beyond the
 evidence and information examined in the Impugned Final
 Finding and concluded volt face without any basis that
 there is inadequate evidence submitted by the domestic
 industry to substantiate the likelihood of injury. Duration of levy of anti-dumping is not a relevant
 parameter. Anti-dumping duty is required to be imposed so
 long as the investigation shows that the cessation of such
 duty is likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of
 dumping and injury. The Act and the Rules do not prescribe
 any time limit beyond which the Anti-dumping duty cannot
 be extended. 11. In light of the foregoing, the present petition and the
 prayers sought therein deserve to be allowed. 9.1 Learned advocate for the petitioners has relied upon the
following decisions. 1. In the case of Nirma Limited Vs. Union of
 India , reported in 2017 (358) E.L.T. 146 (Gujarat). 2. In the case of Reliance Industries Limited Vs.
 Designated Authority and others reported in
 (2006) 10 SCC 368; 3. In the case of Union of India and another Vs.
 Meghmani Organics Limited reported in (2016) 10
 SCC 28; 4. In the case of DCW Limited Vs. Union of India ,
 rendered on 11.06.2018 by this Court in Special Civil
 Applications No.14202 of 2017 and allied matters . 10. Learned advocate for respondent No.3 has placed on record
the written submissions which reproduced as under:- Re: The Petitioner has an alternate remedy in Customs Excise
and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) 5. Without prejudice to the aforesaid submission, It is
stated that the Petitioner has erred in approaching this
Hon'ble High Court in as much as it is an established principle
of law that the writ jurisdiction of this Hon'ble High Court is an
extraordinary jurisdiction, and ought not to be invoked till the
statutory remedy
has been exhausted. 6. It is submitted with due deference to this Hon'ble Court
that the writ jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court ought not to
have been invoked by the Petitioner, in light of an alternative
remedy available to the Petitioner under the provisions of the Custom Tariff Act, 1975 . It is respectfully submitted that the
appeal against the findings of the designated authority viz.
Directorate General of Trade Remedies lies with the CESTAT
under Section 9C of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975. Section 9C of the Custom Tariff Act, 1975 is reproduced below for ease of
reference of this Court: 7. In this regard, it may not be out of place to place
reliance on the recent judgment of Designated Authority V.
San Disk, reported in 2018 13 SCC 402, wherein the domestic
industry had raised similar issues, including without limitation
that the Designated Authority had violated principles of
natural justice and/ or that all material / information was not
provided to it. In such similar circumstances as well, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court was pleased to opine that in view of
the statutory remedy provided under section 9C of the
Customs Tariff Act. 1975, the writ petition under Article 226 would not be entertained. Several other High Courts in India,
including without limitation the High Court of Delhi, Calcutta,
Madras as well as Bombay have been pleased to direct the
parties to invoke the statutory remedy of CESI'AT instead of
invoking the extraordinary writ remedy under Article 226 of
the Constitution. 8. In this context, it is stated with utmost humility and
deference to this Hon'ble Court that in the recent decision of Hindustan Lever v. Union of India [2017 SCC Online Del 8354],
the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi has taken note
of the decision of Nirma Ltd. v. Union of India (judgment dated
23rd February, 2017 in C/SCA/16426/201 of the this Hon'ble
High Court of Gujarat) and categorically dismissed the writ
petition, on the ground of the alternative remedy available to
the petitioners therein. The relevant extract of the
aforementioned Hindustan Lever v. Union of India (supra)
judgement is reproduced below for the ease of reference of
this Hon'ble Court: Consequently, the Court is not persuaded that the grounds
urged in the writ petition cannot be urged before the CESTAT.
It is not without significance that the Gujarat High
Court makes no reference in the above passage in Nirma Ltd. v. Union of India (supra) to Section 9C of
the CTA. 9. We Court is also not persuaded to take a view different
the one it has in Alcatel-lucent India Ltd. v Designated
Authority (supra); PTA Users Association v. Union of India (supra) and Balaji Action Buildwell v. Union of India (supra). 10. The question is not whether this Court can entertain the
present writ petition. The question is whether, in the facts and
circumstances, it should? The power under Article 226 of
the Constitution is an extra-ordinary one and should not be
exercised in a routine manner especially when the Petitioner
has an efficacious and adequate alternative statutory remedy
available. Otherwise, the Court would be supp/anting the
functioning of the statutory appellate authority tasked
specifically with reviewing the correctness of the orders of the
subordinate statutory authorities. Therefore, while
acknowledging that this Court does have the jurisdiction to
entertain the writ petition, in the facts and circumstances of
the present case the Court lines that no case has been made
out to persuade it to exercise its jurisdiction under A/tic/e 226
of the Constitution to examine the correctness of the Fina/
Finding of the DA. 777e Court is of the firm view that every
ground urged in the present writ petition can well be urged
before the CESTAT. 11. The writ petition and applications are accordingly
dismissed. However, this will not preclude the
Petitioner from availing the statutory remedy of an
appeal before the CESTA T in accordance with law and
from urging all the grounds raised here, and any other
ground it may have, to challenge the Final Finding of
the DA. The Petitioner may request the CESTA T for an
expedited hearing of its appeal . " 14. It is respectfully submitted that the plain reading of the
above quoted section envisages that any notification imposing
anti-dumping duty can only be extended pending the outcome
of sunset review investigation. In the present case, the Page 27 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

Designated Authority (DA) after initiating sunset review
investigations recommended extension of anti-dumping duty
till 26.04.2019 which was done vide notification No. 39/2018-
Cus (ADD). Subsequently, DA issued their sunset review final
findings and did not recommend continuation of anti-dumping
duty. Thereafter vide notification No. 19/2019-Cus (ADD)
dated 16th April, 2019 the same was rescinded with the
approval of Finance Minister. Thus, extension of anti-dumping
duty under these circumstances will be contrary to the
provisions of Section 9A (5) of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975. It
is an established principle of law that if the law directs
something to be done in a particular way, it ought not to be
done in any other way. In view of the above, and in the
absence of any inherent power to review its own decision, the
directions as prayed for by the Petitioner ought not be
granted by this Hon'ble Court. Reliance is placed on the
judgment of the Hon'bie Supreme Court in the case of Union
of lndia (U01) and
Ors. V Kumho Petrochemicals Company Limited and Ors. [AIR
2017 SC 3357] in this regard. 15. In any event, if it is the case of the Petitioner that the
Final Findings need to be set aside for reasons, inter alia, that
there Is a violations of principles of natural justice, in that
event also, the matter ought to be remanded to the DA to
cure the alleged defect, and it is not open to this Hon'ble High
Court to extend the notification to impose Anti-Dumping Duty
and/or suspend the rescinding notification of the Central
Government. The aforesaid submission is without prejudice to
the legal assertion that principles of natural justice as
applicable to investigation/inquiries against individuals, may
not have a strict application to the investigation under the
Anti-dumping Rules, 1995, and therefore the assertions of the
Petitioner qua alleged non-compliance of the rules of natural
justice by the DA are liable to be rejected. In any case, the
Petitioner has failed to show how any prejudice has been
caused to him due to the alleged non-compliance of the rules
of natural justice by the DA, and as such In the absence of any
prejudice to the Petitioners, its plea qua the alleged non-
compliance ought to be rejected by this Hon'ble High Court. 16. Without prejudice to the aforesaid submissions, it is
further respectfully submitted that it is well settled, the writ
jurisdiction of the Hon'bIe High Court cannot be used to give a
direction to the legislature or the subordinated legislature (as
in the present case) to enact a particular law; and neither can
the writ jurisdiction of the Hon'ble High Court be invoked to
interfere in matters related to policy and economic matters. It
is humbly stated that the issuance/ withdrawing/ rescinding of
the notification is a policy decision and extending the period
of the notification and keeping notification In abeyance cannot
be interfered by the court unless the validity of such actions is
challenged on its own merits before the court. In the present
circumstances, the subject goods are in the category of
generic and mass consumption medicines, which are being
routinely consumed by the all sections of the population.
Hence, India, which is a welfare state, is duty bound to
provide the subject goods at an affordable price to its citizens.
As submitted In the preceding paragraphs, the Imposition of Page 28 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 the anti-dumping duty for 17 years has met Its objective and
 it is opportune time to allow free import of this essential drug
 without any extra duty. In view of this policy, the Answering
 Respondent deemed It appr0priate to affirm the Final Findings
 of the DA and rescind the duty on the Imported goods. It Is
 reiterated that if the member of the domestic industry Is
 aggrieved by the said findings, it may invoke the appeal
 provisions in law and/ or file a fresh application for imposition
 of Anti Dumping Duty, but is refrained from approaching this
 Hon'bie Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. 17. In view of above submissions, it is prayed that
 Petitioners have no case on merits or otherwise and hence,
 the present Petition deserves to be dismissed. Re:List of Judgements 18. The Respondent annexes herewith an index of judicial
 pronouncements, sought to be relied upon by the Respondent
 No. 3 in support of its aforementioned contentions. 10.1 Learned advocate for respondent No.3 has relied upon the
following decisions. 1. In the case of Rishiroop Polymers (P) Ltd. Vs.
 Designated Authority and Additional Secretary ,
 reported in (2006) 4 SCC 303; 2. Indian Metal and Ferro Alloys Ltd. Vs.
 Designated Authority, Ministry , reported in (2008)
 224 ELT 375; 3. M/s. Kanoria Chemicals and Industries Ltd Vs.
 Designated Authority, Directorate General of
 Allied Duties and others , reported in 2015 SCC
 Online CESTAT 284; 4. In the case of Designated Authority Vs. Sandisk
 International Ltd., reported in (2018) 13 SCC 402; 5. Jindal Poly Film Ltd. Vs. Designated Authority
 and others , reported in 2018 (362) ELT 994; Authority, reported in 2017 SCC Online Del 9412; 7. Spacewood Furnishers Vs. Designated Authority
 and others , reported in 2010 (112) Bom L.R. 2045; 8. Shew Kumar Agarwal and Others Vs. Union of
 India, reported in (2002) 1 CALLT 588 HC; 9. Union of India (UOI) and others Vs. Kumho
 Petrochemicals Company Limited and others ,
 reported in AIR 2017 SC 3357; 10. Eveready Industries India Ltd. Vs. Union of India ,
 reported in 2019 SCC Online Del 7865; 11. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. Vs. Designated
 Authority , reported in 2003 (158) E.L.T. 673 (SC); 12. Fragrances Flavours Association of India Vs.
 Designated Authority, reported in 2011 (270)
 E.L.T. 733; 13. Huawei Tech. Co. Ltd. Vs. Designated Authority ,
 reported in 2011 (273) E.L.T. 293 (Tri.-Del.); 14. Supreme Court Employees Welfare Association
 Vs. Union of India reported in (1989) 4 SCC 187; 15. Census Commissioner and others Vs. R.
 Krishnamurthy , reported in (2015) 2 SCC 796; C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT 16. Kerala Colour Lab Association Vs. UOI , reported in
 2003 (156) ELT 17; 17. R. K. Garg Vs. UOI , reported in 1981 AIR 2138; 18. Rusom Cavasiee Cooper Vs. Union of India ,
 reported in (1970) 1 SCC 248; 19. Suresh Seth Vs. Commr., Indore Municipal
 Corporation reported in (2005) 13 SCC 287; 20. Haridas Exports Vs. All India Float Glass
 Manufacturer Association and others , reported in
 (2002) 6 SCC 600; 11. Mr.Desai, learned advocate for respondent No.2 has
vehemently opposed the present petition and has submitted that
the petitioners has challenged the Final Finding and DA on the basis
that the informations were not supplied to it. While inviting the
attention of the Court to the email, Mr.Desai, learned advocate has
submitted that the necessary informations have already been
supplied to the petitioners by email and the other particulars which
are available on public domain has also made available to the
petitioners' representative. While referring to extract of the page of
register of the non-confidential informations public file, Mr.Desai has
submitted that the representative of the petitioners has accessed
the public file and, therefore, the question for non-furnishing of
informations is devoid of merits. Regarding data available at DGCSI
which was made used by DA, Mr.Desai, learned advocate has
submitted that the data available on website is not accessible to
everybody and one has to make payment of charge and, therefore,
it cannot be treated as on public domain. While referring to
Disclosure Statement, he has submitted that all facts were made Page 31 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

available to concerned parties and the informations were supplied in
spread sheet form through email. According to him, there was
substantial compliance of providing informations to the petitioners
and there is no breach of any Rules as to non-disclosure of the
important facts and informations to the petitioners. He has
contended that equal treatments have been given to everybody and
any other confidential facts has not disclosure, however, the facts
which are confidential for the petitioner itself are supplied to him. 11.1 While referring the Rules 16 and 17 of the Rules, Mr.Desai,
learned advocate has submitted that the Final Finding be always
based on the observation made in Disclosure Statement and there is
hardly any further inquiry needed after disclosure statement and,
therefore, it could be assailed on the ground of similarity in the
Disclosure Statement and Final Finding. He has contended that the
Disclosure Statement is always based on data and there is no any
exercise is taken during the period between the Disclosure
Statement and Final Finding. According to him, on the basis of the
informations, after conclusion of the Disclosure Statement, the
question remain is only regarding evaluation of the data, which is
being carried out and on that basis, the Final Finding could be
arrived at. He has submitted that there is no breach of any natural
justice and there is no allegation in the pleadings of the petitioners
as to perversity in the action of the DA. 11.2 Regarding maintainability of the petition on the ground of
availability of alternative remedy, Mr.Desai, learned advocate has
also submitted that the appeal can be preferred by the petitioners
before the CESTATE and the question raised by the petitioners could
be gone into by the said Tribunal and the methodology could also
be tested by the CESTATE. According to him, this is not a forum for
the petitioners to revoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Article
226 of the Constitution of India. While relying on the following Page 32 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

decisions on the point of jurisdiction, Mr.Desai, learned advocate
has requested the Court to relegate the petitioners to prefer
alternative remedy of approaching the CESTATE. 1. In the case of Jindal Poly Film Ltd. Vs.
 Designated Authority , reported in 2018 E.L.T.
 994 (Delhi); 2. In the case of Kesoram Rayon Vs. Designated
 Authority , reported in 2018 (359) E.L.T. 475
 (Delhi); 3. In the case of Outokumpu Oyj Vs. Union of India ,
 reported in 2018 (360) E.L.T. 679 (Delhi); 12. In rejoinder, Mr.Soparkar, learned senior advocate for the
petitioners has vehemently submitted that though his clients have
received email but no annexure has been received by them
regarding information on spread sheet. He has submitted that the
Disclosure Statement is dated 21.01.2019, whereas, the email in
question has sent on 15.01.2019. According to him, this was the
earlier information sent before the Disclosure Statement was issued.
He has submitted that there is no email or information sent by the
authority after 22.01.2019. While referring to the affidavit-in-reply
filed by the respondent authority, Mr.Soparkar has also submitted
that sending of informations to the petitioners by the Designated
Authority has not been specifically mentioned in such affidavit and it
is only oral submissions made during the course of arguments,
which cannot be accepted at all. 12.1 Regarding public file, Mr.Soparkar, learned senior advocate
has also submitted that this is a public file which can be inspected
by anyone and it is not confidential. Regarding substantial
informations, Mr.Soparkar has submitted that the question is to
provide every information and there is no question of any Page 33 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

percentage of data to be provided to the party concerned. 12.2 Regarding decisions relied upon by Mr.Desai, learned
advocate on the point of jurisdiction, Mr.Soparkar, learned senior
advocate has submitted that there is no bar to the High Court to
entertain the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India considering the fact that there is non-compliance on the part
of the Designated Authority in providing the informations to the
petitioners and considering the fact that the conclusion arrived at in
Final Finding is diametrically opposed to the reasons given in report
itself as well as in the disclosure statement, this Court has
jurisdiction to entertain the petition and pass necessary order. He
has prayed to allow the petition. 13. The Court has heard learned counsels for the parties and
perused the pleadings. Before adverting to the rival contentions of
learned advocates for the parties, it would be most appropriate to
set out hereinbelow few indisputable aspects emerging therefrom - (i) This petition is in respect of the goods
 imports of paracetamol originating in or
 exported from China PR. (ii) On 22.01.2002, respondent No.2, on the
 basis of the inquiry conducted, issued the
 Final Finding Notification No.60/1/2000-
 DGAD recommending imposition of Anti - Dumping Duty on paracetamol from China
 PR. (iii) On 27.03.2002, respondent No.1 vide
 Notification No.29/2002 - Customs (ADD)
 recommended the definitive anti-dumping
 duties in the form of benchmark. basis of the duly substantiated application
 filed on behalf of the domestic inquiry,
 respondent No.2 initiated a 'sunset review'
 investigation to examine whether the expiry
 of the duty would lead to continuation or
 recurrence of dumping and injury. (v) On 31.08.2006, respondent No.3 vide its
 Notification No.87/20067 extended the
 definitive Anti-Dumping Duties in terms of Section 9A(5) for a period of one year upto
 05.09.2007. (vi) On 23.07.2007, after conducting a detailed
 investigation, respondent No.2 issued Final
 Finding vide its Notification No. 15/20/2006 - DGAD recommending continuation of Anti-
 Dumping Duty. (vii) On 03.07.2007, in pursuance of such
 recommendation, respondent No.3 issued
 the Notification No.99/2007-Customs (ADD)
 levying Anti-Dumping Duty for a further
 period of five years. (viii) On 28.08.2012, respondent No.2 initiated a
 sunset view investigation vide Notification
 No.14/1009/2012-DGAD to review the need
 for continued imposition of duties. (ix) On 19.09.2012, the Anti-Dumping Duty was
 extended upto 02.09.2013 by respondent
 No.3 vide Notification No.42/2012-Customs
 (ADD). (x) On 26.08.2013, After due investigation,
 respondent No.2 issued Final Finding No.
 14/1009/2012 - DGAD recommending
 extension of duties in revised form changing Page 35 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 from benchmark form of duty of fixed form
 of duty. (xi) On 28.10.2013, in pursuance of the
 aforesaid recommendation of respondent
 No.2, respondent No.1 issued the
 Notification No.26/2013-Customs imposing
 fixed form of Anti-Dumping Duty for a period
 of another five years. (xii) In 2018, the petitioner along with other,
 again approached respondent No.2 with duly
 substantiated application for extension of
 Anti-Dumping Duty. (xiii) On 14.05.2018, respondent No.2 provided
 pre-initiation hearing to petitioner No.1. (xiv) On 17.05.2018, a detailed written
 submission was made by the Domestic
 Industry. (xv) On 24.05.2018, respondent No.2 initiated
 the sunset view to review vide Notification
 No.07/16/2018-DGAD. (xvi) On 20.08.2018, respondent No.3 extended
 the Anti-Dumping Duty for a period of six
 months i.e. upto 26.04.2019 vide
 Notification No.39/2018-Customs (ADD).
(xvii) On 29.08.2018, respondent No.2 granted
 public / oral hearing to all the interested
 parties. (xviii) On 07.09.2018, petitioner No.1 filed a
 detailed written submission. (xix) On 15.01.2019, respondent No.2 issued
 Disclosure Statement under the provisions
 of Rule 16 of the Rules as mentioned in
 pages starting from page No.187 to 226. C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 The relevant extract thereof is reproduced
 hereinbelow. 27. Submissions made by the interested parties with
 regard to confidentiality and considered relevant by
 the Authority are examined and addressed
 accordingly. Information provided by the interested
 parties on confidential basis was examined with
 regard to the need for treating them as confidential.
 On being satisfied, the Authority has accepted the
 confidentiality claims of all the parties and
 accordingly not disclosed such information to other
 interested parties. Wherever possible, parties
 providing information on confidential basis were
 directed to provide non-confidential summary of the
 information filed on confidential basis. The Authority
 made available the non-confidential version of the
 evidence submitted by various interested parties in
 the form of public file. 41. The following are the submissions made by
 the domestic industry, during the course of present
 investigation and considered relevant by the
 Authority:- 42. The submissions made by the producers /
 exporters / importers / other interested parties are as
 follows :- xiii. The failure to follow the mandatory procedure
 of Para 7 has substantive implications on the
 determination of the normal value and resultantly the
 dumping margin. Xiv. Therefore, the Hon'ble Authority is requested
 to follow the procedure prescribed in Para 7 of the
 Annexure I in the current investigation. H.3 Examination b the Authority

 a. Normal Value in China 43. Upon initiation, the Authority advised the
 producers / exporters in China to respond to the
 notice of initiation and provide information relevant
 to determination of normal value. The Authority sent
 copies of the Supplementary questionnaire to all the
 known producers / exporters for rebutting Page 39 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 presumption of non-market economy in accordance
 with criteria laid down in Para 8(3) of Annexure-I to
 the AD Rules. The Authority also requested
 Government of China to advise the producers /
 exporters in their country to provide the relevant
 information. However, none of the Chinese producers
 filed any response to the Supplementary
 questionnaire issued by the Authority. 44. Accordingly, the normal value and export
 price for the all the producers / exporters from the
 subject country have been determined as below. a. Determination of Normal Value for
 producers and exporters in China PR 45. As none of the producers from China PR have
 filed the Supplementary Questionnaire response, the
 normal value has been determined in accordance
 with Para 7 of Annexure - I of Anti-Dumping Rules. In
 the absence of sufficient information on record
 regarding the other methods as are enshrined in Para
 7 of Annexure I of the AD rules, the Authority has
 determined the normal value by adopting the method
 "any other reasonable basis". 46. The Authority has, therefore, constructed the
 normal value for China PR on the basis of cost of
 production in India duly adjusted, including selling,
 general and administrative expenses. Accordingly,
 the constructed normal value for Chinese exporters is
 determined Rs.***** per Kg. b. Determination of export price of China
 PR 47. The Authority notes that below mentioned
 exporters from China PR have furnished information
 to the Authority, which was used for determination of
 export price and individual dumping margin. i. M/s. Anqiu Lu An Pharmaceutical Co.,
 Ltd. ii. M/s.A.H.A. International Co., Ltd.
 iii. China Sinopharm International
 Corporation
 iv. Zhejiang Chemcials Import and Export
 Corporation
 v. Lianyungang Kangle Pharmaceutical
 Co., Ltd. vi. Zhejiang Kangle Pharmaceutical
 Col.,Ltd. vii. Hebei Jiheng (group) Pharmaceutical
 Co. Ltd. In view of the responses filed, the Authority has
 analysed the response made by the producers /
 exporters as follows:- C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 M/s. Anqiu Lu An Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
 (Producer) and M/s.A.H.A. International Co.,
 Ltd. China Sinopharm International Corporation
 and Zhejiang Chemicals Import and Export
 Corporation. 48. The Authority notes that M/s.Anqiu Lu An
 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd has exported *** MT of the
 subject goods directly to India and *** MT through its
 traders M/s.A.H.A. International Co., Ltd. China
 Sinopharm International Corporation and Zhejiang
 Chemicals Import and Export Corporation. The
 Authority notes that whereas Anqiu Lu An
 Pharmaceutical Co has reported an export price of
 US$*(**/MT and A.H.A. International Co., Ltd., China
 Sinopharm International Corporation and Zhejiang
 Chemicals Import and Export Corporation have
 reported net export price of US$***, US$***/MT and
 US$***/MT respectively. 49. The producers-exporters have claimed price
 adjustments on account of inland freight, ocean
 freight, and marine insurance, credit cost, port
 expenses and VAT. Ex-factory export price has been
 determined for each producer/exporter. Weighted
 average export price of the said producer and its
 respective traders have thereafter been determined
 as US$***/MT considering the total volume of exports
 made by the said exporter. M/s.Lianyungang Kangle Pharmaceutical Co.,
 Ltd. (producer) and M/s. Zhejiang Kangle
 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 50. The Authority notes that M/s.Lianyungang
 Kangle Pharmaceutical Co., has exported *** MT
 through its trader namely M/s. Zhejiang Kangle
 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. They have claimed price
 adjustments on account of inland freight, ocean
 freight, marine insurance, credit cost, port expenses
 and VAT. After adjustment of the expenses claimed
 by the producer / trader, the authority has
 determined the ex-factory export price as US$***/MT. M/s.Hebei Jiheng (group) Pharmaceutical Co.
 Ltd. (producer) 51. The Authority notes that M/s.Hebei Jiheng
 (group) Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd have exported *** MT
 directly to India. The exporters have claimed price
 adjustments on account of inland freight, ocean
 freight, marine insurance, credit cost, port expenses
 and VAT. After adjustment of the expenses claimed
 by the producer / trader accordingly, the authority
 has determined the ex-factory export price as
 ***US$/MT. Pharmaceutical International Co.,
 Co., Ltd. Ltd. China Sinopharm
 International
 Corporation
 Zhejiang
 Chemicals Import
 and Export
 Corporation
 Lianyungang Zhejiang Kangle *** *** *** *** 0-(10)
 Kangle Pharmaceutical
 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 52. The dumping margin during the POI for all
 exporters/producers from the subject country has
 been determined as provided in the table below:- I. INJURY DETERMINATION AND EXAMINATION
 OF INJURY AND CAUSAL LINK

 I.3 Examination of the Authority 55. According to Section 9(A) of the Customs
 Tariff Act, anti-dumping duty imposed shall, unless
 revoked earlier, cease to have effect on the expiry of
 five years from the date of such imposition, provided Page 42 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 that if the Central Government, in a review, is of the
 opinion that the cessation of such duty is likely to
 lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping and
 injury, it may, from time to time, extend the period of
 such imposition for a further period of five years and
 such further period shall commence from the date of
 order of such extension. 60. The Authority has defined, for the purpose of
 the present investigation, demand or apparent
 consumption of the subject goods in India as the sum
 of domestic sales of the India producers and imports
 from all sources. The demand for the product under
 consideration is given below:- 61. The Authority notes that the demand has
 shown increase over the injury period, even though it
 had marginally declined in 2016-17 as compared to
 the preceding year. The demand increased once
 again in the period of investigation as compared to
 both the preceding year and base year. (ii) Volume Effect of Dumped Imports and
 impact on Domestic Industry: 62. With regard to volume of the dumped
 imports, the Authority is required to consider whether
 there has been a significant increase in dumped
 imports either in absolute terms or relative to
 production or consumption in India. The table below
 summarizes the factual position with regard to import
 volumes and market share :- 63. It is seen that the import volume declined till
 2015-16 and increased thereafter. Also, the market
 share in demand of the domestic industry has
 remained more or less constant. (iii) Price Effect of the Dumped Imports on
 the Domestic Industry. a. Price Undercutting 64. With regard to the effect of dumped imports
 on prices, the Designated Authority is required to
 consider whether there has been a significant price
 undercutting by the dumped imports when compared
 with the price of like product in India, or whether the
 effect of such imports is otherwise to depress prices
 to a significant degree or prevent price increase,
 which otherwise would have occurred, to a significant
 degree. In this regard, a comparison has been made
 between the landed value of the product and the
 selling price of the domestic industry net of all
 rebates and taxes, at the same level of trade. The
 Authority has compared landed price of imports with
 the selling price of the domestic industry for the
 subject goods. From the above, the Authority notes that there is no Page 44 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 price undercutting. 65. The domestic industry submitted and
 opposing interested parties have not disputed that
 the entirety of the imports were made under advance
 license and therefore neither customs duty nor ADD
 was paid on these imports. b. Price Suppression / Depression 66. In order to determine whether the dumped
 imports are suppressing or depressing the domestic
 prices and whether the effect of such imports is to
 suppress prices to a significant degree or prevent
 price increases which otherwise would have occurred
 to a significant degree, the Authority considered the
 changes in the costs and prices over the injury
 period. The position is shown as per the table below :- 67. The Authority notes that whereas the selling
 price has increased in the POI as compared to the
 base year, the cost of sales has marginally declined
 in POI. The landed value of imports from subject
 country has declined in POI as compared to the base
 year. The Authority notes that the domestic industry
 increased its selling price in proportion to increase in
 cost of sales throughout the injury period. Therefore,
 there is no price suppression or depression. 69. Accordingly, various economic parameters of
 the Domestic Industry are analyzed herein below :- utilization details are as follows :- Demand Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 POI
 Sales of Domestic MT *** *** *** ***
 Industry
 Indexed 100 104 108 108
 Sales of other MT *** *** *** ***
 Indian Producers
 Indexed 100 114 108 110
 Imports from
 China MT 4,356 1,930 2,205 2,969 Other MT 79 115 30 65 Total Demand MT 48,251 50,295 49,603 50,770 c) Market Share in Demand 72. The details of market share of the Domestic
 Industry in demand are given in table below. 74. Performance of the Domestic Industry with
 regard to profits, return on investment and cash flow
 is as follows:- 75. It is seen from the above table that the
 profitability, cash profits and return on investments
 have increased in the POI when compared to he base
 year/. 80. The Non-injuries price of the subject goods
 produced by the domestic industry as determined by
 the Authority in terms of Annexure III to the AD Rules
 has been compared with the landed value of the
 exports from the subject country for determination of
 injury margin during the POI and the injury margin so
 worked out is as under. J.1 Submissions by the Domestic Industry 82. Following are the submissions made by the
 Domestic Industry with regard to likelihood of
 continuation of dumping and consequent recurrence
 of injury - i. A perusal of Article 11.1 of AD Agreement and Section 9A(5) of the Customs Tariff Act, clearly
 suggests that the main intent behind the legislation
 of Sunset Review investigation is to examine:- whether the dumping would recur in the event of
 revocation of anti-dumping duties; c) Whether the Domestic Industry continued to
 suffer injury; and if so, whether injury to the domestic
 industry is likely to continue; d) In case where the Domestic Industry has not
 suffered continued injury, whether injury to the
 Domestic Industry is likely to recur in the event of
 revocation of anti-dumping duties. ii. The original investigation and the subsequent
 Sunset Review investigations also established the
 existence of significant dumping. The dumping
 margin in the previous as well as the first SSR was
 quite high. iii. There is a long history of dumping of subject
 goods from China in domestic market as well as in
 other countries such as South Africa and Indonesia. iv. The continued dumping was only reduced
 after the last concluded sunset review investigation.
 Prior to that, the domestic industry was suffering
 continued injury on account of significant dumped
 imports, as stated by the Authority in the final
 findings earlier notified in the review cases. v. The significant level of these imports only
 started declining since 20151-16. However, it is
 pertinent to note that the domestic industry is still
 healing from the past injuries effects of dumping and
 thus is in a vulnerable state. Cessation of anti-
 dumping duties is likely to cause intensified injury to
 the domestic industry. vi. It would appear that the domestic industry
 has enjoyed anti-dumping duty protection for the last
 15 years, the fact is that the domestic industry has
 been effectively protected for only last five years.
 The Chinese producers continued dumping and the
 same caused injury to the domestic industry for one
 decade, despite the ADD being in force. vii. The change in the form of duty from
 benchmark to fixed quantum has led to reduction in
 imports. Cessation of anti-dumping duly is likely to
 increase the imports as significant surplus capacities
 are available with the producers. The decline in the
 imports is because of existence of ADD. viii. Due to continuous dumping several plants
 producing the PRODUCT UNDER CONSIDERATION
 have been closed down in the country namely :- consideration is quite limited globally. About 86% of
 global production is in India and China. 62% of the
 production is in China alone, while India commands
 24%. Thus, any sickness in this industry would leave
 the global demand at the mercy of the Chinese
 producers. x. The questionnaire responses filed by the
 exporters, establish that there is import of subject
 goods from subject country at dumped price. xi. The domestic industry in the present scenario
 is still reeling from the adverse effects of the
 dumping and has shown marginal growth in terms of
 its economic parameters. The same growth would be
 reversed if the Anti-dumping duty is ceased by the
 Authority. xii. The only reason the domestic industry has
 not suffered further deterioration in its performance
 is that the volume of imports was low due to the
 duties in force. However, the producers in the subject
 country has significant idle capacities, which are
 sufficient to meet the entire demand in India. In the
 event of cessation of duty, the exports are likely to
 utilize these unutilized capacities and flood the Indian
 market. xiii. The foreign producers are export oriented, in
 as much as their capacities are far more than the
 domestic demand in the subject country. The
 production of the subject goods in subject country is
 in the range of 1 lacs MT, as against 2.21 lac MT
 capacities; whereas the domestic demand for the
 product in China is far lower nearly 20,000 MT. This
 clearly shows that the exporters have built up
 capacities in excess of the demand in the subject
 country out of 1 lac MT production, about 80% are
 meant for exports. India, but also in other countries. Further, the prices
 at which the goods have been supplied to these
 countries are lower than the non-injuries prices. It is,
 therefore, reasonable to conclude that the exporters
 are likely to sell at dumped and injurious prices in
 India as well in case the duty is revoked. xv. The export price from subject country to various
 countries globally are far lower than the export price
 to India in respect of significant proportion of exports
 from subject country to various countries globally.
 The dumping margin and injury margin in these third
 countries exports are higher than the dumping
 margin and injury margin in respect of exports to
 India. xvi. Since India is a more price attractive market as
 compared to third countries, the exporters would
 prefer to divert their goods from other countries to
 India in case of revocation of duty, in order to
 increase their profits and capture the market.
 Considering that the exporters have no commitments
 in these third country markets and the sole criteria
 for them to price their product is price received by
 them. xvii. Decline in imports post imposition of duty and
 positive dumping margin in such imports implies
 likelihood of dumping in the event of withdrawal of
 duty and in itself justifies extension of anti-dumping
 duty. J.2 Submission of exporters 83. There is no likelihood of recurrence of injury
 as per Article 9A(5) of the Customs and Tariffs Act . i. The petitioners have not given the details of
 excessive capacity available with the Chinese
 producers and their likelihood of being exported to
 India, the petitioners have failed to make out a case
 of likelihood of dumping. ii. This clearly indicates that there is no
 likelihood of injury to the domestic industry in the
 current investigation and the present investigation
 deserves termination. J.3 Examination by the Authority 84. The Authority examined the likelihood of
 continuation or recurrence of injury considering the
 parameters relating to the threat of material injury in
 terms of Annexure II (vii) of the Anti-dumping Rules.
 The domestic industry has submitted the details of
 exports of China to third countries as per China
 customs which shows that ***% volume of exports to
 third countries are at a price lower than price at
 which China exports to India and ***% of the volume Page 50 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 of exports to third countries are at a price above than
 price at which China exports to India. 85. The Authority has taken into consideration
 the submissions made by the domestic industry and
 the evidence presented in support of their
 submissions. The Authority has examined the
 likelihood of continuation of recurrence of injury
 under following heads: 86 A significant rate of increase of dumped
 imports into India indicating the likelihood of
 substantially increased importation. consistent decline in the volume of imports compared
 to base, year. 88. An analysis of transaction wise data of the
 cooperative producers with their respective exporters
 so as to arrive at dumped and injurious imports of the
 cooperative producer of the present investigation is
 as follows:- The total exports to India by the said producer with
 trader of the subject goods are ***MT out which
 ***MT are dumped imports and ***MT are injurious
 imports. Total exports to India by th said producer of the
 subject goods through its exporters is ***MT out
 which dumped imports constitute ***MT. No injurious
 imports were found for the said producer through its
 exporter. c) M/s.Hebei Jiheng (group) Pharmaceutical
 Co. Ltd. Total exports to India by the said producer of the
 subject goods is ***MT. All imports of the said
 producer are dumped and ***MT are injurious. (b) Sufficient freely disposable, or an
 imminent, substantial increase in, capacity of
 the exporter indicating the likelihood of
 substantially increased dumped exports to
 India markets, taking into account the
 availability of other export markets to absorb
 any additional export. 89. The Authority evaluated the existing surplus
 capacities, capacity addition, if any, with the
 responding exporters, possibility of trade diversion
 from third countries to India, freely disposable
 production capacities with the responding exporters.
 The analysis shows as follows: 90. The questionnaire response filed by the
 Chinese producer's shows that level of inventories
 with the cooperative producers / exporters is quite
 significant. 91. Analysis of the China PR Custom data with
 regard to export from China PR to the rest of the
 world. Indicate that with the revocation of ADD, the
 Indian prices would be attractive for the Chinese
 producers / Exporters to increase their exports to
 India and the same can be deduced from the table
 give below: 92. The Authority notes that ***% total volume of
 exports to third countries is at a price lower than the
 price at which China export to India. Whereas ***% of
 the total exports are exported are above at price
 at which China exports the subject goods to India. (E) Export Orientation of China PR 93. As per the data of China Customs and other
 evidence filed by the Domestic Industry, the
 Authority notes that the producers in China are
 oriented toward exports globally. In the event of cessation of ADD, there is probability
 that the exporters/producers would resort to dumping
 of subject goods to India. C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 K. CASUAL LINK AND NON ATTRIBUTION
 ANALYSIS OF OTHERS KNOWN FACTORS 94. Having examined the existence of continued
 dumping, volume and price effects of dumped
 imports on the prices of the Domestic Industry, other
 indicative parameters listed under the Indian Rules
 and Agreement on Anti-Dumping have been
 examined herein below by the Authority to see
 whether any other factor, other than the dumped
 imports could have contributed injury to the Domestic
 Industry. (xx) On 21.01.2019, the petitioners have
 submitted its submissions regarding
 Disclosure Statement, which starts from
 page No.227 to 243. The relevant extract
 thereof is reproduced hereinbelow. A. Preliminary submissions 1. The petitioner requests the disclosure of following
 facts, in order to enable them to come a meaningful
 conclusion. a Copy of the Communications sent by the Authority
 and copy of the replies filed by the interested parties.
 The Authority may kindly make available a copy of all the
 communications sent via mail or letter, to the opposing
 interested party and replies filed by the interested party.
 The applicant is not requesting any confidential
 information. The applicant is requesting only NCV of this
 information. b Submissions by interested parties: A copy of all the
 communications filed by the interested parties. In case
 there is anything confidential, petitioner requests non
 confidential version of the same. c Copy of the rejoinder submissions: Petitioner
 requests a copy of the rejoinde submissions filed by other
 interested parties. In case there is anything confidential,
 petitioner requests non confidential version of the same. d Verification Report: Petitioner requests a copy of the
 verification report prepared by the Authority after due
 verification visits made for both the domestic industry. In
 case there is anything confidential, petitioner requests
 non confidential version of the same. e Normal Value: Since it is based on the domestic
 industry date and information publicaly available/ used. In
 case there is anything confidential, petitioner requests Page 55 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 non confidential version of the same. f NIP breakdown:- showing therein expenses allowed
 and disallowed for the purpose of NIP computation,
 optimization of raw materials, utilities and overhead
 expenses in case the Designated Authority found that
 there were some inefficiencies in the same. This is all the
 more important, as (i) it appears that the NIP determined
 is unduly low, (ii) there appears an assumption with
 regard utilization of raw materials, utilities and production
 capacities. g Actual data in injury assessment:- Since this data
 pertains to the domestic industry, petitioners request
 disclosure of this data to the petitioners on actual basis. 2. The above is vital for the domestic industry to offer
 their meaningful comments on the disclosure statement.
 However, pending such disclosure, the domestic industry
 hereunder makes following preliminary submissions to
 the Disclosure Statement. The domestic industry craves
 leave to make further submissions, as and when the
 above essential facts are disclosed. B. Emerging essential facts flowing from the
 Disclosure Statement issued are as follows: 3. Following are the emerging essential facts flowing
 from the Disclosure Statement. Petitioner believes that
 the Authority has concluded the following and is making
 submissions under this belief. Further, petitioner is
 reproducing some of the facts presented by it
 earlier only as a matter of reiteration, despite these facts
 already having been established by the Designated
 Authority in favor of a positive final determination. i Product under Consideration and Like Article: The
 product under consideration in the present Sunset Review
 investigation is Paracetamol and the goods produced by
 the Domestic Industry and imported from the subject
 country are like articles in terms of the Rule 2(d) of
 the Anti-Dumping Rules. ii Standing: M/s Farmson Pharmaceuticals Gujarat Private
 Limited and M/s Sri Krishna Pharmaceuticals Limited
 constitutes "a major proportion of total Indian production" 4. The disclosure statement has not addressed the
 following submission therefore the Authority is requested
 to disclose essential facts on the below mentioned
 information/submission before issued the Final Finding:- v The Authority while issuing the Final Finding
 concerning Dry Cell Batteries from China PR (Case No.
 15/2/2011-DGAD & Final Findings dated 20th May 2013)
 has held that the anti-dumping duties beyond 10 years be
 imposed in Special cases only. 5. Petitioner has further following submissions: 6. With regard to the scope of the product under
 consideration and like article the Designated Authority
 has rightly noted at Para. 13 and 17 of the Disclosure
 Statement that the product under consideration (PUC)
 and like article in the present Sunset Review investigation
 remains the same as that of the earlier investigations
 which is Paracetamol. 7 Paracetamol is also known as "acetaminophen" C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 which is classified under Customs sub heading No
 29222933 under chapter 29 of the Customs Tariff Act,
 1975 and the same is however indicative only and not
 binding on the scope of the present investigation.
 Designated Authority has also correctly held that the
 goods produced by the domestic: industry are
 comparable to the PUC in terms of physical
 characteristics, manufacturing process & technology,
 functions & uses, product specifications and tariff
 classification of the goods. The two are technically and
 commercially substitutable since they are being used
 interchangeably by the consumers. Therefore, the goods
 produced by the Domestic industry and imported from the
 subject country are like articles in terms of the Rule 2(d)
 of the Anti-Dumping Rules. E. Scope of the Domestic Industry & standing 8. With regard to the scope of the Domestic industry &
 Standing the Designated Authority has rightly at Para. 23
 have noted that the petitioner companies are eligible
 domestic industry in terms of AD Rules. Further.
 production of the petitioner companies namely M/s
 Farmson Pharmaceuticals Gujarat Private Limited and M/s
 Sri Krishna Pharmaceuticals Limited constitutes "a majo
 proportion of total Indian production" and hence, satisfies
 the standing requirements for the subject goods
 under Rule 2(b) and Rule 5(3) of the AD Rules. it is further
 submitted that at Para.22 of Disclosure Statement the
 Authority has noted that M/s Bharat Chemicals has
 provided all the necessary information. However, the
 Authority has not considered the same as the Designated
 Authority considers that the same was filed at belated
 stage of investigation. 9. It is submitted that the Designated Authority at
 Para. 22 of the Disclosure Statement have noted that "in
 case of Sunset review it would be desirable to have the
 same composition of domestic industry as in original
 investigation". However, it is submitted that there is no
 legal mandate under the provisions of Anti-dumping law
 which states that in all the subsequent investigation there
 should be same composition of the domestic industry as
 of the original investigation. 10. Para. 23 of the Disclosure statement contains
 confidential figures of the domestic industry hence, the
 Authority is requested to make it confidential before
 issuing the Final finding. F. Determination of Normal Value Export Price And
 Dumping Margin

 Normal Value 11. Para 45 of the Disclosure Statement clearly shows
 that post initiation Designated Authority has sent copies
 of the supplementary questionnaire to all the known
 producers / exporters and Government of China for Page 59 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 rebutting presumption of non-market economy in
 accordance with criteria laid down in Para8(3) of
 Annexure-l to the AD Rules. However, none of the
 producers / exporter from China PR has filed the
 Supplementary Questionnaire response to claim market
 economy status. Therefore in the absence of sufficient
 information on record the Authority has rightly
 determined the normal value on the basis of cost of
 production in India for the like product, duly adjusted,
 including selling, general and administrative expenses, in
 terms of Rule 6(8) of the Rules. Export Price 12. In the present case, as already submitted that the
 export price from subject country significantly differs in
 terms of time period and therefore it is a fit case where
 weighted average normal value cannot be compared with
 weighted average export price. The Designated
 Authority was requested to consider weighted average
 normal value and compare with individual export price
 and in all those import transactions where the dumping
 margin is negative, the same are required to be
 excluded for determination of dumping margin. 13. It is further submitted that the determination of
 export price by the in the present case is not consistent
 with the SOP manual issued which state as follows: 14. Therefore in a case like present where the producers
 have exported the goods through unrelated trader and
 where it does not appear a case that the traders have
 made losses, the export price should be determined
 considering the selling price of the producer. 15. Even otherwise, the petitioners submit that the
 export price reported by the producers should be rejected
 and export price reported by the trader/exporter should
 be adopted only when it is found that the trader has sold
 the product at a lower price. As noted in the SOP manual,
 only in a case where the traders suffer a loss, the selling
 price of trader can be adopted. However, if traders earn
 profits. the selling price of producer should be adopted. 16. The export price determined is therefore not
 appropriate. 17. Designated Authority at Para. 52 (b) has rightly
 noted that out of total imports of China PR i.e.*** MT "*
 % imports are dumped and "" % are injurious. This clearly
 shows that despite Anti dumping duty in force. subject
 goods are being dumped from subject country at
 significant level. Hence. there is need for continuation of
 Anti dumping duty and the Designated Authority is
 requested to consider the same. G. Assessment of injury 18. The Designated Authority has noted at Para 61 of
 the disclosure statement that the demand of subject
 goods has shown increase over the injury period. 19. Designated Authority at Para. 63 has noted that the
 import volume decline till 2015-16 and increased
 thereafter however, it is submitted that there is a
 declined in the volume of import in 2015-16 and
 thereafter it increased significantly despite Anti
 dumping duty in force. 20. With the reference to issues regarding M/s Granules
 not providing the information in the present
 investigation. the petitioner earlier submitted that
 Granules 'India is undertaking significant exports
 with some special arrangements with some buyer and
 therefore its production to that extent is not even
 available in the market. The company is not suffering
 injury to such an extent. H. Economic Parameters of the domestic industry 21. As per the provisions of the Anti dumping Law unlike
 original investigation current injury to the Domestic
 industry in not required in a sunset review
 investigation (SSR). SSR are prospective in nature. as
 they focus on the likelihood of the continuation or
 recurrence of dumping and injury, in case cessation
 of anti dumping duties. Therefore the Designated
 Authority is requested to focus on as to whether
 the domestic industry is likely to be materially injured
 again, if duties are lifted. 22. The Designated Authority has noted as follows with
 regard to various economic parameters: 23. Without prejudice, it is submitted that injury margin
 is not germane to likelihood of dumping and injury
 analysis. NIP is determined only for the purpose of
 quantification of duty, and is not relevant for the
 determination regarding existence of injury or likelihood
 thereof. Rule 17(2) to the Rules also makes it evident
 that the question of quantum of injury shall arise only
 when the Designated Authority finds injury to the
 domestic industry:- 24. Similar view has been held by the Hon'ble Court in
 matter of Nirma Ltd. v. Union of India 2017(358) E.L.T.
 146 (Guj) that injury margin and NIP is determined only
 for the purpose of quantification of duty, and is not
 relevant for the determination regarding existence of
 injury provided for in Annexure II" to the Anti dumping
 Rules. 1995. Relevant extract are reproduced below: 25. It is submitted that the Designated Authority is
 required to determine injury margin only in those cases
 where the Authority finds that the imports are causing
 injury. However, if the Designated Authority does not find
 injury to the domestic industry, like in the present case,
 the Designated Authority is not required to and should not
 determine injury margin. In fact, when there is no injury,
 there can be no need for determining injury margin. And,
 a negative injury margin only shows that the domestic
 industry is not suffering current injury. Therefore, in a
 situation where the Designated Authority finds absence of
 injury, the Designated Authority is not required to
 determine injury margin and proceeds with the
 investigation and issue finding based on likelihood
 analysis. and confirm the same quantum of ADD, which is
 required to be done in the present case. 26. In the past also Designated Authority has not modified
 the quantum of ADD both in MTR and SSR when the
 Designated Authority found that the need for
 continuation/extension is based on likelihood of injury.
 Domestic industry refers to the following illustrative cases
 where the Designated Authority declined to modify the
 quantum of ADD and merely extended existing ADD. In
 some of these cases, the injury margin was found
 negative in the review investigation period. "Steering Knuckles from material of definitive
 China PR injury anti dumping
 duty
 3 Choloroquine phosphate Zero Continuation
 from China PR imports of definitive
 in period anti dumping
 of duty Page 63 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 investig
 ation as
 well as
 injury
 period
 4 Diclofenac Sodium from Negativ Continuation
 China PR e of definitive
 dumping anti dumping
 and duty
 injury
 margin
 in POI
 5 Acetone originating in or Negativ Extended the
 exported from European e Injury Anti dumping
 Union, South Africa, duty
 Singapore and USA
 6 Polypropylene from Negativ Continuation
 Singapore e Injury of definitive
 Margin anti dumping
 duty

 I. Likelihood of continuation of Recurrence of
 Dumping and Injury 27. It is submitted that Article 11.1 of Anti Dumping
 Agreement and Section 9A (5) of the Customs Tariff Act,
 clearly suggests that the main intent behind the
 legislation of Sunset Review investigation is to examine: 28. The Authority has examined the likelihood of
 continuation or recurrence of injury considering the
 parameters relating to the threat of material injury in
 terms of Annexure II (vii) of the Anti-Dumping Rules at
 Para. 86-93 of the Disclosure statement. 29. The Designated Authority has noted as follows With
 regard to likelihood of injury in the present case

 i For Cooperating exporter / producer Authority at Page 64 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 Para. 89(d) has rightly noted that "Considering the
 capacity utilization and export orientation of the
 responding producers and evidence provided by the
 domestic industry, it is evident that there are
 surplus capacities in China and the Chinese
 producers are export oriented. ii Capacities of the following Non-cooperative
 exporters/producers: Further at Para. 89(c) the
 Authority has noted that on the basis of analysis of the
 Co- operating producers that the trading companies do
 not have their own production facilities and they quote
 the capacity of the producers on their websites. iii Authority at Para. 90 have noted that on the basis of
 "the questionnaire response filed by the Chinese
 producer's shows that level of inventories with the
 cooperative producers/ exporters is quite significant. iv Authority at Para. 91 have noted that "..export' from
 China PR to the rest of the world indicate that with the
 revocation of ADD the Indian prices would be attractive
 for the Chinese producers/Exporters to increase their
 exports to India" 30. The above disclosure of various parameters clearly
 indicates that in a situation like present, the anti dumping
 duty needs to be extended. J. Causal link and Non Attribution Analysis of Other
 Known Factors 31.Under the provisions of law the Designated Authority
 is required to undertake a non-attribution analysis,
 wherein, the authority is required to compulsorily
 examine other possible factors as listed under the law.
 This is akin to "rule out test" wherein a number of
 parameters listed under the law are required to be
 examined to ascertain whether the domestic industry has
 suffered injury on account 0t any of these factors. Even if
 none of the interested parties have pointed to possible
 existence of these factors, the authority is obliged to
 undertake analysis and rule out that the injury to the
 domestic industry is not primarily on account of these
 listed other factors. This is popularly known as "non-
 attribution analysis". 32. It is submitted that at Para. 95-100 the Designated
 Authority has noted that listed known other factors have
 not caused injury to the domestic industry and if no other Page 65 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 factor causing injury to the domestic industry has in fact
 been examined by the Authority, then, the only inference
 to be drawn is that dumped imports have caused injury to
 the domestic industry. 33. Without prejudice it is submitted that in case of a
 sunset review, Article 11.3 of
 the Anti Dumping Agreement only requires investigating
 authorities to determine whether the expiry of the duties
 would be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of
 dumping and injury. Once it has been established that
 cessation of duties is likely to cause recurrence or
 continuation of dumping and injury to the domestic
 industry, there is no requirement to establish the
 existence of a causal link between the likely dumping and
 likely injury. As observed by the Appellate Body in the
 case of United States Anti-Dumping Measures on Oil
 Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) from Mexico
 [WT/DS282/AB/R], in a review investigation, it is
 determined whether expiry of duty is likely to lead to a
 continuation or recurrence of dumping or injury, and "it is
 reasonable to assume that, where dumping and injury
 continues or recurs. the causal link between dumping and
 injury, established in the original investigation, would
 exist and need not be established anew." "Therefore,
 what is essential for an affirmative determination under Article 11.3 is proof of likelihood of continuation or
 recurrence of dumping and injury, if the duty expires" 34. The non injurious price determined is too low
 resulting into negative injury margin. The non injurious
 price has been reduced on account of number of factors.
 The domestic industry requests the authority to kindly
 consider the followings with regard to Capital Employed. 35. Capital employed should be determined considering
 present value of fixed assets, or at the least gross value
 of fixed assets. in any case, adoption of net fixed assets
 is highly inappropriate and. in fact. unfair to the domestic
 industry, considering that some of the investments are
 significantly old and therefore net fixed assets does not
 represent true value of investments. In fact, the most
 appropriate value for the purpose is present value of the
 investments. L. Period for which Anti dumping is imposed is not
 relevant 36. As already submitted by the petitioner that anti
 dumping duty is required to be imposed so long as the
 investigation shows that the cessation of such duty is
 likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping
 and injury. The Act and the Rules do not prescribe any Page 66 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 time limit beyond which the anti dumping duty should not
 be extended. Section 9A(5) clearly provides that the anti-
 dumping duty imposed shall, unless revoked earlier,
 cease to have effect on the expiry of five years from the
 date of such imposition, provided that if the Central
 Government, in a review, is of the opinion that cessation
 of such duty is likely to lead to continuation or recurrence
 of dumping and injury, in which case,the Central Govt.
 may, from time to time extend the period of such
 imposition for a further period of five years. Thus,
 the legal provision clearly is that the anti dumping duty
 can be extended further from time to time. if it is
 found that dumping and consequent injury to the
 domestic industry is likely in the event of cessation
 of anti dumping duty . Further, there is no requirement
 under the law that it should be a "special" case as argued
 by the other interested parties in view of Final Finding
 concerning Dry Cell Batteries from China PR (Case No.
 15/2/2011-DGAD & Final Findings dated 20th May 2013),
 which is not applicable in the facts and circumstances of
 the present case. Illustrative list of cases where Anti-dumping duties
 have been extended by India beyond 15 years

 SN Product Country Duty since Time period
 Year Days
 1 Acrylic Fibre (Still Thailand & 3/31/1997 21 82
 in force) Korea
 2 Vitamin C (Still in China 3/11/1998 20 87
 force)
 3 Vitamin E (Still in China 12/2/2003 15 14
 Force)
 4 Sodium Nitrite China 4/6/200 18 80
 (Still in force)
 5 Nylon Tyre Cord China 6/30/2004 14 56
 Fabric (NTCF)
 (Still in force)
 6 Narrow Woven China 6/9/2004 14 62
 Fabrics (Still in Taiwan
 force)

 Illustrative list of cases where Anti-dumping duties
 have been extended by global authorities even
 beyond 20-30 years 86. Table below shows statement of cases wherein USA
 has imposed Anti dumping duty pursuant to third sunset
 reviews also. It would be seen that Anti-dumping duties
 have been in operation in USA for much longer period. 87. Canada has extended anti-dumping duties in
 following cases. It would be seen that some of these
 duties are in force for the past 20-25 years. 88. Similarly Brazil has also extended anti-dumping
 duties in following cases beyond 15 years. 89. It is further submitted that Domestic industry is
 vulnerable to injury from dumped imports at present.
 Current levels of import volumes and dumping margins
 from the subject country clearly shows that expiry of duty
 will result in intensified dumping of subject goods from
 the subject country. As earlier requested Authority should
 also consider followings

 a. Limited production of the product globally : As
 earlier submitted petitioner again requests the Authority
 to consider that the production of product under
 consideration is quite limited globally. As, about 86% of
 global production is in India and China only and out of
 which 62% of the production is in China alone, while India
 commands the remaining 24%. Thus, any sickness in this
 industry would |eave the global demand only at the
 mercy and monopoly of the Chinese producers. b. Large scale production suspension in India: As
 already submitted petitioner again requests the
 Authority to consider the fact that due to the adverse
 effect of the insufficient form of duty there were
 large scale production suspension in the country
 which was primarily in the last two decades (all these
 closures are more than 5 years old and are prior to
 previous extension of ADD),

 c. Paracetamol formulation prices are covered under
 DPCO and NPPA therefore no adverse effect on the
 consumers The NPPA regulates the prices of
 Paracetamol formulation and therefore even Iife the
 product under consideration is not a formulation,
 considering that the cost of the product under
 consideration forms majority of the cost of Paracetamol
 formulation, there is an automatic; check on the prices at
 which the producers of the product under
 consideration can sell the product in the market. The
 Authority further notes that Paracetamol .is listed under
 National List of Essential Medicines and it is one of the
 cheapest pain killer being most widely used in the
 Country. Thus, while the price of both formulation and
 bulk drug are capped, the producers of Paracetamol
 have been selling the product at a price listed to
 regulated product. d. Paracetamol is not a high cost medicine and
 therefore in any case there should be no concern with
 regard to possible adverse impact of the ADD on the
 consumers. In any case, impact of present ADD on
 the consumer is miniscule. e. While the ADD has been in force for more than 15
 years, the domestic industry was effectively protected
 only for last five years, which period has seen significant
 growth in the Country and the domestic industry requires
 protection for at least another five years, after which the
 domestic industry is expected to be fully viable

 M. Prayer Page 70 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT 37. In the light of the contentions raised. information
 provided and submissions advanced, the Authority may
 be pleased to conclude that

 i Dumping has continued despite imposition of ADD

 ii Dumping is likely to intensity in the event of
 cessation of ADD. iii injury to the domestic industry is likely to recur in the
 event of cessation of ADD. iv Recommend extension of anti-dumping duties
 already imposed on the imports of the subject goods
 originating in or exported from China PR. v Fixed form of anti-dumping duty is required to be
 imposed for a further period of five years expressed
 in US/MT. Submitted please,

 (A.K. Gupta)
 For the Domestic Industry

(xxi) On 29.01.2019, respondent No.2 issued
 impugned Final Findings vide Notification F.
 No. 7/16/2018-DGAD whereby it has decided
 to discontinue the Anti-Dumping Duty
 rejecting / ignoring all the submissions on
 behalf of the petitioners. The relevant
 extract from the Final Findings set out
 hereinbelow. C. LIKE ARTICLE

 C.1 Submissions by the Domestic industry 15. The domestic industry has claimed that there is no
 known difference in subject goods exported from subject
 country and that produced by the Indian industry. Both
 the products have comparable characteristics in terms of
 parameters such as physical & chemical characteristics,
 manufacturing process & technology, functions & uses,
 product specifications and tariff classification etc. Page 71 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 C.2 Submissions by the exporters/importers/other
 interested parties 16. None of the interested patties have disputed the
 claims made by the domestic industry in this regard. C.3 Examination by Authority

 l7. The Authority notes from the information available on
 record that the product under consideration produced by
 the Domestic Industry is like article to the goods imported
 from the subject country. Product under consideration
 produced by the Domestic Industry and imported from
 the subject country are comparable in terms of physical
 characteristics, manufacturing process & technology,
 functions & uses, product specifications and tariff
 classification of the goods. It is further noted that the
 Designated Authority had examined the issue of product
 under consideration and like article in the previous
 investigations, which mutatis mutandis is relied upon in
 the present review investigation. The goods produced by
 the Domestic Industry and imported from the subject
 country are like articles in terms of the Rule 2(d) of the
 Anti-Dumping Rules. The two are technically and
 commercially substitutable. The consumers are using the
 two interchangeably. E. ISSUES RELATING TO CONFIDENTIALLY

 E.1 Submissions by the Domestic industry 24. The domestic industry has made the following
 submissions:- 25. The exporters/importers/other interested parties Page 72 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 have made the following submissions: 26. With regard to confidentiality of information, Rule 7
 of Anti-dumping Rules provides as follows: (2) The designated authority may require the parties
 providing information on confidential basis to furnish
 non-confidential summary thereof and If in the opinion of
 a party providing such information, such information is
 not susceptible of summary, such party may submit to
 the designated authority a statement of reasons why
 summarization is not possible. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2), if
 the designated authority is satisfied that the request for
 confidentiality is not warranted or the supplier of the
 information is either unwilling to make the information
 public or to authorize its disclosure in a
 generalized or summary form, it may disregard such
 information. 27. Submissions made by the interested parties with
 regard to confidentiality and considered relevant by the
 Authority are examined and addressed accordingly.
 Information provided by the interested parties on
 confidential basis was examined with regard to the need
 for treating them as confidential. On being satisfied, the
 Authority has accepted the confidentiality claims of all the
 patties and accordingly not disclosed such information to
 other interested patties. Wherever possible, patties
 providing information on confidential basis were directed
 to provide non-confidential summary of the information
 filed on confidential basis. The Authority made available
 the non-confidential version of the evidence submitted by
 various interested parties in the form of public file. G. NORMAL VALUE EXPORT PRICE AND
 DETERMINATION OF DUMPING MARGIN 39. The Authority sent questionnaire to known exporters
 from subject country, advising them to provide
 information in the form and manner prescribed. The
 following producers and exporters front the subject
 country tiled the questionnaire response: iv. At present, no provisions which enable the Hon'ble
 Authority for considering Chinese producers as operating
 on non-market economy principles for disregarding their
 domestic prices and costs and the normal value for China
 may be determined on the basis of their domestic prices
 and cost of the subject goods. v. Any other methodology used for the determination of
 normal value for Chines exporters would be in violation of
 the obligations of India under the WTO. vi. Without prejudice to above submission it is submitted Page 76 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 that determination of normal value for Chinese
 exporters on the basis of their records without following
 any additional procedure, domestic industry has
 arbitrarily determined the normal value for Chinese
 exporters without following the due procedure as laid
 down under the Indian Anti-dumping Rules. vii. The constructed normal value proposed by the
 domestic industry is based on the cost of production in
 India and considering the rate of profit at 5%. However,
 the item-wise cost details of the constructed normal value
 have not been provided. viii. The methodology of relying upon the Indian costs
 and prices is to be followed only when it was not possible
 to construct the normal value on the basis of other
 alternatives prescribed in the opening sentence of Para 7. ix. In terms of the provisions of Para 7, the market
 economy third country is required to be first identified for
 determination of normal value and only where it is not
 possible to obtain necessary data from such third country,
 the normal value can be determined on any other
 reasonable basis, including the price actually paid or
 payable in India for the like product, duly adjusted if
 necessary, to include a reasonable profit margin. x. The domestic industry is under obligation to inform,
 without reasonable delay the selection of market
 economy third country to the parties concerned so as to
 provide an opportunity to respond to the same. xi. Mandatory procedure prescribed by the law has not
 been followed, as the interested parties have not been
 put to notice about selection of the third country. Nor
 have the interested parties been requested to suggest
 and make necessary information available about the third
 country. xii. In the absence of following the mandatory procedure,
 the present proceeding cannot continue in view of the
 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
 Shenyang Matsushita 2005 (181) ELT 320 (SC). xiii. The failure to follow the mandatory procedure of Para
 7 has substantive implications on the determination of
 the normal value and resultantly the dumping margin. xiv. Therefore, the Hon'ble Authority is requested to
 follow the procedure prescribed in Para 7 of the Annexure
 I in the current investigation. G.3 Examination by the Authority

 a. Normal Value in China 43. Upon initiation, the Authority advised the
 producers/exporters in China to respond to the notice of Page 77 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 initiation and provide information relevant to
 determination of normal value. The Authority sent copies
 of the Supplementary questionnaire to all the known
 producers/ exporters for rebutting presumption of
 nonmarket economy in accordance with criteria laid down
 in Para 8(3) of Annexure-I to the AD Rules. The Authority
 also requested Government of China to advise the
 producers/exporters in their country to provide the
 relevant information. However, none of the Chinese
 producers filed any response to the Supplementary
 questionnaire issued by the Authority. 44. Accordingly, the normal value and export price for all
 the producers/exporters from the subject country have
 been determined as below: 45. As none of the producers from China PR have filed
 the Supplementary Questionnaire response, the
 normal value has been determined in accordance
 with Para 7 of Annexure I of Anti-Dumping Rules. In
 the absence of sufficient information on record regarding
 the other methods as are enshrined in Para 7 of
 Annexure I of the AD rules, the Authority has
 determined the normal value by adopting the method
 "any other reasonable basis". 46. The Authority has, therefore, constructed the normal
 value for China PR on the basis of cost of production in
 India, duly adjusted, including selling, general and
 administrative expenses Accordingly, the constructed
 normal value for Chinese exporters is determined Rs.
 ***** per Kg. c. Determination of export price of China PR 47. The Authority notes that exporters mentioned below
 from China PR have furnished information to the
 Authority, which was used for determination of
 export price and individual dumping margin. i. M/s Anqiu Lu An Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ii. M/s A.H.A international Co., Ltd. iii. China Sinopharm international Corporation

 iv. Zhejiang Chemicals Import and Export Corporation

 v. Lianyungang Kangle Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. vi. Zhejiang Kanglc Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. vii. Hebei Jiheng (group) Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. In view of the responses filed, the Authority has analysed Page 78 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 the response made by the producers /exporters as
 follows: 48. The Authority notes that M/s Anqiu Lu An
 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. has exported *** MT of the
 subject goods directly to India and *** MT through it
 traders M/s A.H.A International Co., Ltd., China Sinopharm
 International Corporation and Zhejiang Chemicals Import
 and Export Corporation. The Authority notes that
 whereas Anqiu Lu An Pharmaceutical Co has reported an
 export price of US$ ***/MT and A.H.A international Co.,
 Ltd., China Sinopharm International Corporation and
 Zhejiang Chemicals Import and Export Corporation have
 reported net export price of US$ ***, US$ ***/MT and
 US$***/MT respectively. 49. The producers-exporters have claimed price
 adjustments on account of inland freight, ocean freight,
 and marine insurance, credit cost, port expenses and
 VAT. Ex-factory export price has been determined for
 each producer/exporter. Weighted average export price
 of the said producer and its respective traders have
 thereafter been determined as US$ *** /MT considering
 the total volume of exports made by the said exporter. M/s Lianyungang Kangle Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (produder) and M/s Zhejiang Kangle
 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 50. The Authority notes that M/s Lianyungang Kangle
 Pharmaceutical Co. has exported *** MT through its
 trader namely M/s Zhejiang Kangle Phannaceutical
 Co., Ltd. They have claimed price adjustments on account
 of inland freight, ocean freight, marine insurance, credit
 cost, port expenses and VAT. After adjustment of the
 expenses claimed by the producer/trader, the authority
 has determined the ex-factory export price as US$ ***
 /MT. M/s Hebei Jiheng (group) Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd..
 producer 51. The Authority notes that M/s Hebei Jiheng (group)
 Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd have exported *** MT directly
 to India. The exporters have claimed price
 adjustments on account of inland freight, ocean
 freight, marine insurance, credit cost, port expenses and
 VAT. After adjustment of the expenses claimed by
 the producer/trader accordingly, the authority has
 determined the ex factory export price as ****
 USS/MT. exporters/producers from the subject country has been
 determined as provided in the table below: --------------------- China Sinopharm
 International
 Corporation --------------------- factory level for the country as a whole, the dumping margin
 for the subject country is determined as below: Para H. INJURY DETERMINATION AND EXAMINATION OF
 INJURY AND CASUAL LINK

 (II) Volume Effect of Dumped Imports and impact
 on Domestic Industry: ii) Imports from China PR and others countries have
 declined from the base year despite increase in total
 demand during the same period. c) Market Share in Demand 72. The details of market share of the Domestic Industry
 in demand are given in table below. Particulars Unit 2014- 2015 2016- POI
 15 -16 17
Sales of Domestic Industry % *** *** *** ***
Sale of other Indian Producers % *** *** *** ***
Import from subject country % 9% 3.8% 4.44% 5.84%
Import from other countries % 0.16% 0.22 0.06% 0.11%
 % Total Demand % 100 100 100 100 73. It is seen that the market share of Domestic Industry
 has marginally increased over the injury period. a. Probability, return on investment and cash
 profits Page 82 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT 74. Performance of the Domestic Industry with regard to
 profits, return on investment and cash flow is as follows:- J.1 Submissions by the Domestic Industry 82. Following are the submissions made by the
 Domestic Industry with regard to likelihood of
 continuation of dumping and consequent recurrence of
 injury- i. A perusal of Article 11.1 of AD Agreement and Section
 9A (5) of the Customs Tariff Act, clearly suggests that the
 main intent behind the legislation of Sunset Review
 investigation is to examine:- dumping duties; c) Whether the Domestic Industry continued to suffer
 injury; and if so, whether injury to the domestic industry is
 likely to continue; (d) In case where the Domestic Industry has not suffered
 continued injury, whether injury to the Domestic Industry
 is likely to recur in the event of revocation of anti-
 dumping duties. ii. The original investigation and the subsequent Sunset
 Review investigations also established the existence of
 significant dumping. The dumping margin in the previous
 as well as the first SSR was quite high. iii. There is a long history of dumping of subject goods
 from China in domestic market as well as in other
 countries such as South Africa and Indonesia. iv. The continued dumping was only reduced after the
 last concluded sunset review investigation. Prior to that,
 the domestic industry was suffering continued injury on
 account of significant dumped imports, as stated by the Page 83 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 Authority in the final findings earlier notified in the review
 cases. v. The significant level of these imports only started
 declining since 2015-16. However, it is pertinent to note
 that the domestic industry is still healing from the past
 injurious effects of dumping and thus is in a vulnerable
 state. Cessation of anti-dumping duties is likely to cause
 intensified injury to the domestic industry. vi. It would appear that the domestic industry has
 enjoyed anti-dumping duty protection for the last 15
 years, the fact is that the domestic industry has been
 effectively protected for only last the years. The Chinese
 producers continued dumping and the same caused injury
 to the domestic industry for one decade, despite the ADD
 being in force. vii. The change in the form of duty from benchmark to
 fixed quantum has led to reduction in imports. Cessation
 of anti-dumping duty is likely to increase the imports as
 significant surplus capacities are available with the
 producers. The decline in the imports is because of
 existence of ADD. viii. Due to continuous dumping, several plants producing
 the PRODUCT UNDER CONSIDERATION have been
 closed down in the country namely: 83. There is no likelihood of recurrence of injury as per
 Article 9A (5) of the Customs and Tariffs Act . i. The petitioners have not given the details of
 excessive capacity available with the Chinese producers
 and their likelihood of being exported to India, the
 petitioners have failed to make out a case of likelihood of
 dumping. ii. This clearly indicates that there is no likelihood of
 injury to the domestic industry in the current investigation
 and the present investigation deserves termination. J.3 Examination by the Authority 84. The Authority examined the likelihood of
 continuation or recurrence of injury considering the
 parameters relating to the threat of material injury in
 terms of Annexure II (vii) of the Anti-dumping Rules. The
 domestic industry has submitted the details of exports of
 China to third countries as per China customs which
 shows that ***% volume of exports to third countries are
 at a price lower than price at which China exports to India
 and ***% of the volume of exports to third countries are
 at a price above than price at which China exports to
 India. 85. The Authority has taken into consideration the
 submissions made by the domestic industry and the
 evidence presented in support of their submissions. The
 Authority has examined the likelihood of continuation or
 recurrence of injury under following heads: Particulars Units 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 POI
China MT 4356 1930 2205 2969 Others MT 79 115 30 65 Total Imports MT 4434 2045 2235 3034

 * April 17 to March 18 87. The Authority notes that there was a consistent
 decline in the volume of imports compared to base year. 88. An analysis of transaction wise date of the
 cooperative producers with their respective exporters so
 as to arrive at dumped and injurious imports of the
 cooperative producer of the present investigation is as
 follows:- The total exports to India by the said producer with trade
 of the subject goods are *** MT out which *** MT are
 dumped imports and *** MT are injurious imports. b) M/s Lianyungang Kangle Pharmaceutical Co.
 Ltd. Total exports to India by the said producer of the subject
 goods through its exporters is *** MT out which dumped
 imports constitute *** MT. No injurious imports were
 found for the said producer through its exporter. c) M/s Hebei Jiheng (group) Pharmaceutical Co.
 Ltd. Total exports to India by the said producer with trader of
 the subject goods is *** MT . All imports of the said
 producer are dumped and ***MT are injurious. (b) Sufficient freely disposable, or an imminent,
 substantial increase in, capacity of the exporter
 indicating the likelihood of substantially increased
 dumped exports to Indian markets, taking into
 account the availability of other export markets to
 absorb any additional exports. 89. The Authority evaluated the existing surplus
 capacities, capacity addition, if any, with the responding
 exporters, possibility of trade diversion from third
 countries to India, freely disposable production capacities
 with the responding exporters. The analysis shows as
 follows: C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 a. Capacity, production, surplus capacities, exports to
 India and rest of the world volume of exports to India

 Name of Unit Anqiu Lu An Lianyungka Hebei Tota
 Producer s Pharmaceutic ng Kangle Jiheng l
 al Co., Ltd. Pharmaceut (group)
 ical Co., Pharmace
 Ltd. utical Co. Ltd. b. After analysis of the capacities of the co-operative
 exporters, the Authority notes that the capacities of the
 following non-cooperative exporters/producers as per the
 date submitted by the petitioner and the information
 available in public domain. 4. Wenzhou Pharmaceuticals factory 6000 5. Jiangsu Guoheng Pharma 2,500
 Chemicals Co. Ltd. 6. Runqui trading Co. Ltd. 12,000 7. Shanghai Bailion Chemicals Co. 50,000
 Ltd. 8. Lianoyuan City Banking 500 Page 88 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 Pharmaceutical 9. Total capacity of non-co-operative 99,000
 entitites 10. Total capacity of co-operative 75,000
 producers 11. Total capacity of China PR 174,000 12. Indian Demand 51,069

 c. However, it is observed from the analysis of the cooperating
 producers that the trading companies do not have their own
 production facilities and they quote the capacity of the
 producers on their websites. d.Considering the capacity utilization and export orientation
 of the responding producers and evidence provided by the
 domestic industry, it is evident that there are surplus
 capacities in China and the Chinese producers are export
 oriented. (C) Inventories of the article being investigated 90. The questionnaire response filed by the Chinese
 producer's shows that level of inventories\ with the
 cooperative producers/exporters is quite significant. (D) Price attractiveness of Indian market 91. Analysis of the China PR Custom data with regard to
 export from China PR to the rest of the world indicate that
 with the revocation of ADD, the Indian prices would be
 attractive for the Chinese producers/exporters to increase
 their exports to India and the same can be deduced from
 the table given below: 92. The Authority notes that ***% total volume of
 exports to third countries is at a price lower than the price
 at which China exports to India. Whereas ***% of the total
 exports are exported are above the price at which China
 exports the subject goods to India. (E) Export Orientation of China PR 93. As per the data of China Customs and other
 evidence filed by the Domestic Industry, the Authority
 notes that the producers in China are oriented towards
 exports globally. In the event of cessation of ADD, there is probability that
 the exporters/producers would resort to dumping of
 subject goods to India. K. CAUSAL LINK AND NON ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS
 OF OTHER KNOWN FACTORS 94. Having examined the existence of continued
 dumping, volume and mice effects of dumped imports on
 the prices of the Domestic Industry, other indicative
 parameters listed under the Indian Rules and Agreement
 on Anti- Dumping have been examined herein below
 by the Authority to see whether any other factor, other
 than the dumped imports could have contributed injury to
 the Domestic Industry. 13.03.2019, this Court has allowed the draft
 amendment. (xxiii) On 11.04.2009, the Court directed the
 authority to extend the Anti-Dumping Duty
 for a period of one month. (xxiv) On 16.04.2019, respondents issued
 Notification decided not to extend Anti-
 Dumping Duty. seeking quashing and setting aside the
 Notification No.19/2019-Customs (ADD)
 dated 16.04.2019 whereby Anti-Dumping
 Duty was ordered to be rescinded. (xxvii) On 26.04.2019, this Court has passed the
 order as referred to hereinabove, in initial
 part of the order, suspending the impugned
 Notification dated 16.04.2019. (xxviii) On 08.05.2019, the petitioners filed I.A.
 No.2 of 2019 in this matter. (xxix) On 09.05.2019, this Court directed the
 respondents to comply with the aforesaid
 order and directed issuance of extension of
 Notification extending the Anti-Dumping
 Duty as referred to above in initial part of
 the order. (xxx) On 10.06.2019, Respondents No.1 to 3 have
 issued Notification No.22/2019-Customs
 (ADD) extending the Anti-Dumping Duty
 upto 24.06.2019. conducted and this Court has passed order
 for issuance of Notification for extension of
 Anti-Dumping Duty till 09.07.2019. 14. The Court is called-upon to examine the rival contentions of
the parties, which needs to be examined in light of the aforesaid
indisputable aspects set-out hereinabove. The position of law in
respect of the remedies on final findings is now clear. The
respondents have relied on the following decisions for their
contentions that the alternative remedy in terms of Section 9C of
the Act may persuade this Court in not interfering with the final
findings. 1. Designated Authority Vs. Sandisk International Ltd, (2018)
 13 SCC 402 - the Supreme Court set aside the judgment of
 Delhi High Court allowing a Writ Petition and held that the
 final findings of the designated authority cannot be
 challenged under Article 226 of the Constitution. 2. Jindal Poly Film Ltd. Vs. Designated Authority and others ,
 (2018) (362) ELT 994. 3. Suncity Sheets Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Designated Authority , (2017)
 SCC Online Del. 9412. 4. Spacewood Furnishers Vs. Designated Authority and others ,
 2010 (112) Bom.L.R. 2045. 5. Shew Kumar Agarwal and others Vs. Union of India , (2002) 1
 Callt. 588 HC. The similar question has arisen before this Court in the case of
M/s.Jindal Saw Limited Vs Ministry of Finance in Special Civil
Application No.6896 of 2019, wherein on 21.06.2019 this Court has
observed in para-9 as under: SECTION 9C. Appeal. -- (1) An appeal against the
 order of determination or review thereof regarding
 the existence, degree and effect of any subsidy or
 dumping in relation to import of any article shall lie to
 the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate
 Tribunal constituted under section 129 of the
 Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) (hereinafter referred
 to as the Appellate Tribunal). (1A) An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be
 accompanied by a fee of fifteen thousand rupees.
 (1B) Every application made before the Appellate
 Tribunal,- (a) in an appeal under sub-section (1), for grant of
 stay or for rectification of mistake or for any other
 purpose; or (b) for restoration of an appeal or an application, shall
 be accompanied by a fee of five hundred rupees.
 (2) Every appeal under this section shall be filed
 within ninety days of the date of order under appeal : The counsel for the petitioner contended that sub-Section-3 of
Section-9C of the Act does not provide any express authority and
power or jurisdiction in the tribunal to issue direction to the Union
of India for issuing notification extending the anti dumping duty. C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 In other words, sub- Section-3 of Section-9C provides that the
 appellate tribunal may pass such orders as it thinks fit confirming,
 modifying or annulling the order appealed as against in an
 eventuality like present where the challenge is to the final
 findings on sunset review which does not require any issuance of
 further notification, if the final findings are in negative then, the
 provision of Section-9C(3) does not envisaged any further positive
 direction to the Union of India or the Central Government for
 extending the anti dumping duty notification. 10. The learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that Section-9C of the Act even if is said to be an alternative remedy,
 but the same cannot be an alternative remedy so efficacious as to
 relegate the petitioner in a given case to the tribunal. The efficacy
 of the remedy is required to be adjudged in the light of the
 circumstances of a matter. In the instant case, looking to the time
 factors and the authorities reluctance in issuing even the requisite
 notification for commencing the sunset review and the fact that
 the anti dumping duty extension was come to an end on
 09.04.2018 and the impugned final findings were rendered on
 01.04.2019 leaving only 7 to 8 days' time for availing the remedy
 in itself would be an indication that the appellate remedy as
 sought to be canvassed under Section-9C cannot be said to be
 efficacious remedy. 11. This Court is of the view that the Court at this stage need
 not go into the aspect of the tribunal's power to issue direction to
 the Central Government in exercise of the power u/s.9C(3) for
 extending the anti dumping duty notification. The vital facts and
 time-line of the instant case are itself sufficient to indicate that
 the remedy of appeal in a present case could not have been said
 to be an efficacious remedy so as to give sufficient opportunity to
 the petitioner for seeking appropriate relief after availing the
 opportunity of putting forward their case. The Tribunal's
 jurisdiction is required to be viewed wherein there is no express
 indication and provision for enabling the tribunal to grant any
 interim relief of such nature and in light of the observation of the
 Supreme Court in case of Kumho Petrochemicals Company Ltd. ,
 (Supra) the hiatus created on account of non-issuance of the
 notification of extending anti dumping duty would be viewed as
 fatal and therefore, in order to provide full opportunity and for
 compliance with the principle of natural justice, the Court is under
 obligation to issue appropriate direction at times interim direction
 for preventing any irretrievable situation jeopardizing the entire
 matter without adjudication. If one looks at from this angle, then
 one will have no other alternative but to accept the submission of
 learned counsel for the petitioner that the alternative remedy of
 appeal u/s.9C of the Act at-least in facts of the present case
 cannot be said to be so efficacious as to dissuade this Court from
 entertaining the petition and relegating the parties to the
 appellate forum. 15. In the case of Designated Authority Vs. Sandisk
International Limited reported in (2018) 3 SCC 402, the
Supreme Court has held and observed in para-6 as under:- C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 "6. Though we would not deem it appropriate to lay down any
 inflexible proposition of law that in no case the final findings of the
 Designated Authority can be subject to challenge under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India, we are of the view that in the
 facts of the present case the High Court was not justified in
 exercising its jurisdiction and in setting aside the final findings of
 the Designated Authority." 16. Thus, there is no inflexible proposition of law that in no case,
the final findings of the Designated Authority can be subject to
challenge under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It is well
settled principles of law that in a given case even if there is
alternative remedy available, the High Court under Article 226 of
the Constitution of India has power to issue necessary order. 17. In the case of Nirma Limited Vs. Union of India (supra),
this Court has held and observed in paras-31, 31.5, 32, 32.11,
32.12, 33.7 and 33.8 as under:- Out of the above four factors, the designated authority has
 taken into consideration the factors prescribed under
 subclauses (a) and (c). However, insofar as sub-clause (c) is
 concerned, the designated authority has placed reliance
 upon incorrect facts, namely, though the price undercutting
 is positive, it has considered the same to be negative and
 drawn its conclusions accordingly. 33.8 Insofar as the factors prescribed under sub-clauses (b) and (d) of clause (vii) of Annexure II to the rules are
 concerned, it, however, has been contended on behalf of
 the respondents that the designated authority has also
 considered those factors. In this regard, a perusal of the
 disclosure statement shows that while the designated
 authority has taken into consideration the above two
 factors, it is manifest that while doing so, it has taken into
 consideration incorrect facts, inasmuch as, instead of
 considering the capacity of production of the exporters
 indicating the likelihood of substantially increased dumped
 exports to Indian markets, as contemplated under sub-
 clause (b), it has taken into consideration the capacity of
 production of the domestic industry; and instead of taking
 into consideration the existence of inventories of the
 dumped imports that could meet any increase or future
 demand for the imports, has taken into consideration the
 inventories of the domestic industry. Evidently therefore,
 the designated authority has failed to follow the procedure
 laid down under clause (vii) of Annexure-II to the rules for
 the purpose of determination of threat of material injury in
 the manner prescribed thereunder. 17.1 In the case of Reliance Industries Limited Vs. Designated
Authority (supra), the Supreme Court has held and observed in
paras-41, 43, 44 and 45 as under:- Dumping Duty on Dumped Articles and for Determination
 of Injury) Rules, 1995, the Designated Authority is
 treating all material submitted to it as confidential merely
 on a party asking that it be treated confidential. In our
 view, that is not the purport of Rule 7. Under Rule 7, the
 Designated Authority has to be satisfied as to the
 confidentiality of that material. Even if the material is
 confidential the Designated Authority has to ask the
 parties providing information, on confidential basis, to
 furnish a non-confidential summary thereof. If such a
 statement is not being furnished then that party should
 submit to the Designated Authority a statement of
 reasons why summarisation is not possible. In any event,
 under Rule 7(3) the Designated Authority can come to the
 conclusion that confidentiality is not warranted and it
 may, in certain cases, disregard that information. It must
 be remembered that not making relevant material
 available to the other side affects the other side as they
 get handicapped in filing an effective appeal. Therefore,
 confidentiality under Rule 7 is not something which must
 be automatically assumed. Of course in such cases there
 is need for confidentiality as otherwsie trade competitors
 would obtain confidential information, which they cannot
 otherwise get. But whether information supplied is
 required to be kept confidential has to be considered on a
 case-to-case basis. It is for the Designated Authority to
 decide whether a particular material is required to be kept
 confidential. Even where confidentiality is required, it will
 always be open for the Appellate Authority, namely
 CEGAT to look into the relevant files." 45. In our opinion, excessive and unwarranted claim
 of confidentiality defeats the right to appeal. In the
 absence of knowledge of the consequences, grounds,
 reasoning and methodology by which the DA has arrived
 at its decision and made its recommendation, the parties
 to the proceedings cannot effectively exercise their right
 to appeal either before the Tribunal or this Court. This is
 contrary to the view taken by the Constitution Bench of
 this Court in S. N. Mukherjee case. 17.2 In the case of Union of India Vs. Meghmani Organics
Limited (supra), the Supreme Court has held and observed in Page 99 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

paras-14, 15, 16 and 19 as under:- Reference in this regard may be made to law enunciated
 on this point by a Constitution Bench, in paragraph 20 of
 the judgment in the case of Krishena Kumar v. Union of
 India & Ors. [7] In the given facts, the observations in
 paragraph 43 in the case of Reliance Industries are fully
 justified and do not require any review. We are in
 agreement that Rule 7 does not postulate that the DA can
 claim confidentiality and that too not in respect of any
 information supplied by a party but in respect of its
 reasons or findings derived from information supplied by
 the same very party. 17. Considering the matter on merits, it is required to be noted, at
this stage, that the submissions advanced on behalf of the
petitioners, which have been set out herein above, have hardly been
refuted by the respondents in proper manner. The respondents by
and large have contended that the authority has observed principles
of natural justice and afforded all the informations to the petitioners
and afforded full opportunity for rendering final findings. It is the
main contention of the petitioners that the conclusion reached in
final finding is diametrically opposed in the observations made in
the Disclosure Statement as well as the observations made in earlier
part of final finding and the respondents have not provided any
information after the Disclosure Statement. Considering the rival
contention and on perusal of the material placed on record, it
appears that the respondents have sent email with a statement that
the necessary required information is attached with email. Now, the
receipt of the email by the petitioners is not denied only facts of the
receipt of the annexures therewith has been denied by the
petitioners. At this juncture, it is pertinent to note that the
respondent has, first during its submissions, submitted that the
information has been provided but no such fact has been narrated
in the affidavit-in-reply. Even no such fact has been taken in the
pleadings itself. It appears that such information was supplied Page 102 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

before issuance of Disclosure Statement. However, the fact remains
that no information whatsoever as sought for has been supplied
after Disclosure Statement. 18. The petitioners have shown how there is diametrical
conclusion reached in the Final Finding from the particulars and
objections in the earlier part of Final Finding as well as Disclosure
Statement, in his conclusion reached in the Final Finding in its
submissions, which have been reproduced hereinabove. On analysis
of the same, it appears that while considering the import as
insignificant which constituted 98% of the total import and 6% of
consumption in India which more than insignificant as defined in
Rule 14(d) of the Rules has not been properly considered by
respondent No.2. The volume of insignificant import has been dealt
with in Rule 14(d) which reads as under:- 19. It also appears from the record that the authority has made
observations regarding likelihood of substantially increased dumped
exports to Indian market, taking into account the availability of
other export markets to absorb any additional exports from
paragraph Nos.85, 90, 91, 92 and 93 at page Nos.273 to 277 and
has specifically observed therein that - (I) Considering the capacity utilization and export
 orientation of the responding producers and
 evidence provided by the domestic industry, it is
 evident that there are surplus capacities in China
 and the Chinese producers are export oriented. (II) The questionnaire response filed by the Chinese
 producer's shows that level of inventories with the
 cooperative producers / exporters is quite
 significant. (III) Analysis of the China PR Custom data with regard
 to export from China PR to the rest of the world,
 indicate that with the revocation of ADD, the
 Indian prices would be attractive for the Chinese
 producers / Exporters to increase their exports to
 India. (VI) The Authority notes that ***% total volume of
 exports to third countries is at a price lower than
 the price at which China exports to India. Whereas
 ***% of the total exports are exported are above
 the price at which China exports the subject
 goods to India. probability that the exporters / producers would
 resort to dumping of subject goods to India. Though all these facts have been narrated by the
 DA, ultimately, in his conclusion in paras 126(6) to
 165, has observed that the DI has failed to
 substantiate its claim in relation to likelihood of
 injury to the domestic industry if the current ADD
 ceases to exist. It has also observed that - Analysis of the price attractiveness by the
 Authority does not position India as price
 attractive for Chinese exports so far as subject
 goods are concerned. 20. The petitioners have shown how there is diametrical
conclusion reached in the Final Finding from the particulars and
objections in the earlier part of Final Finding as well as Disclosure
Statement, in his conclusion reached in the Final Finding in its
submissions, which have been reproduced hereinabove. On analysis
of the same, it appears that while considering the import as
insignificant which constituted 98% of the total import and 6% of
consumption in India which more than insignificant as defined in
Rule 14(d) of the Rules has not been properly considered by
respondent No.2. The volume of insignificant import has been dealt
with in Rule 14(d) which reads as under:- 21. It also appears from the record that the authority has made
observations regarding likelihood of substantially increased dumped
exports to Indian market, taking into account the availability of
other export markets to absorb any additional exports from
paragraph Nos.85, 90, 91, 92 and 93 at page Nos.273 to 277 and
has specifically observed therein that - (I) Considering the capacity utilization and export
 orientation of the responding producers and
 evidence provided by the domestic industry, it is
 evident that there are surplus capacities in China
 and the Chinese producers are export oriented. (II) The questionnaire response filed by the Chinese
 producer's shows that level of inventories with the
 cooperative producers / exporters is quite
 significant. (III) Analysis of the China PR Custom data with regard
 to export from China PR to the rest of the world,
 indicate that with the revocation of ADD, the
 Indian prices would be attractive for the Chinese Page 106 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

 producers / Exporters to increase their exports to
 India. (VI) The Authority notes that ***% total volume of
 exports to third countries is at a price lower than
 the price at which China exports to India. Whereas
 ***% of the total exports are exported are above
 the price at which China exports the subject
 goods to India. (VI) In the event of cessation of ADD, there is
 probability that the exporters / producers would
 resort to dumping of subject goods to India. Though all these facts have been narrated by the
 DA, ultimately, in his conclusion in paras 126(6) to
 165, has observed that the DI has failed to
 substantiate its claim in relation to likelihood of
 injury to the domestic industry if the current ADD
 ceases to exist. It has also observed that - Analysis of the price attractiveness by the
 Authority does not position India as price
 attractive for Chinese exports so far as subject
 goods are concerned. 22. It appears from the Disclosure Statement as well as Final
Finding that all the above facts are narrated therein, but without
considering those facts and in diametrically opposed to the same,
the DA has made conclusion. Thus, the submission of the petitioners
that the DA has not properly appreciated the fact and has went
beyond the evidence and information examined, is acceptable. It
appears from the record that the conclusion arrived at by DA in Final
Finding is not based on the observations made by him in Disclosure
Statement as well as in Final Finding itself. Thus, there is lack of Page 107 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

non-application of mind on the part of the authority concerned. 23. The DA has also made observation in para-126(6) that the
ADD was in force since September 2001 and the condition of
domestic industry has improved. But, this fact has no relevance for
deciding likelihood injury if ADD is not extended. The ADD is
required to be imposed so long as the investigation shows that the
cessation of such duty is likely to lead to continuation or recurrence
of dumping and injury. 24. The submission of Mr.Desai, learned advocate for respondent
No.2 so far as it relates to the stand that DGCIS is not a public
domain and everybody cannot have accessed to its data is
concerned, the same is devoid of merits. Even if there is fee for
charge is recovered, the persons who access such site of DGCIS
then in that case also, it cannot be treated as a private or
confidential data. Whenever any information is made available on
website by any particular entity then it will amount to available on
public domain which has been recorded by the DA from the data of
DGCIS is also a breach of Rules and there is detailed information
given to the petitioners herein. 25. It appears from the record that after Disclosure Statement,
the petitioners herein have sought certain informations which are
not confidential in nature, which have not been supplied by the DA
to the petitioners and thus, there is also breach of principles of
natural justice. Considering the facts narrated in the Disclosure
Statement and Finding and ultimate conclusion, it clearly appears
that the DA has not properly appreciated the material placed on
record and has not averted all the facts of likelihood of dumping and
injury to the DI and there is non-advertence to the requisite material
placed on record and non-consideration of the facts recorded earlier
and there is merely a foundation of reading to the conclusion in
final finding, diametrically opposed to the facts observed in the Page 108 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

Disclosure Statement and final findings, which render the final
findings not tenable in the eye of law as the final findings are
suffering from the aforesaid omissions and, therefore, it could be
termed as perverse so as to render it unsustainable in the eye of
law. 26. Mr.Ravi Prakash, learned advocate for respondent - Union of
India has submitted that the Union of India cannot review its
decision and cannot extend the notification which is non-existence
in the eye of law. So far as the present petition is concerned, this
matter was listed earlier before this Court and certain orders came
to be passed, which are reproduced hereinabove, which reflects that
pending this petition, respondent has diluted interim order of this
Court and issued notification cancelling ADD. Therefore, when the
matter was in session with the Court, whatever action is taken is
subject to the result of the petition. As such, considering the
peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, this Court is of the
view that the stand taken by respondent - Union of India cannot be
accepted and it is meritless, especially when it is found from the
material placed on record that the DA has not taken into
consideration the material placed on record, as conclusion in final
finding is diametrically opposed to the observations made in the
Disclosure Statement as well as in Final Findings and thus, as there
is non-application of mind of the DA, this Court has power and
jurisdiction to direct the concerned authority to extend the period of
notification to impose ADD for a further period. 27. One of the submissions on behalf of the respondents as made
by Mr.Desai, learned advocate for Union of India is that after
Disclosure Statement and before passing of final order, nothing is
required to be done and, therefore, there might be reproduction of
facts and material which has been made in Disclosure Statement in
the same in the Final Findings. This submission is devoid of merits.
Had there been real intention of the legislature that nothing is Page 109 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

required to be done after passing the Disclosure Statement, then
the Act and Rules might have provided that the same may be
treated as Final Findings. It is an admitted fact that after Disclosure
Statement, the concerned parties are invited to submit their
submissions and, thereafter, the Final Finding has to be arrived at. It
shows that it is the duty of the concerned authority to eventuate,
examine and appreciate the material placed by the concerned
parties, which have been submitted by them after Disclosure
Statement, in its proper perspective and, thereafter, the authority
has to pass final finding order. This course has to be adopted with a
view to afford proper opportunity to all the parties and to evaluate,
examine and appreciate the material supplied by the concerned
parties to the DA regarding Disclosure Statement and after making
such exercise by DA, necessary Final Finding may be arrived at by
DA either to positive opinion or negative one continuation. 28. The law in respect of the final findings and its justiciability is
no more res-integra and one can say that under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India when final findings are assailed on the grounds
mentioned in the submissions viz. Omissions on the part of the
authority in considering the detailed put forward by the petitioner,
the High Court could interfere in the matter. The omission by the
designated authority in disclosing the material which is not claimed
to be confidential and the omission to follow the methodology in
light of the decision in respect of Rule-7 as held by Supreme Court
in case of Reliance Industries Ltd., Vs. Designated Authority reported in 2006 ( 10) SCC 368 and Union of India Vs.
Meghmani Organics Ltd. , reported in 2016 (340) E.L.T. 449 can
be held to be sufficient material to persuade this Court to hold that
the final findings cannot be said to be sustainable in eye of law. 29. In view of the aforesaid discussions, we are of the view that
the impugned Final Finding recorded in the Notification
No.7/16/2018-DGAD dated 29.01.2019, cannot be said to be strictly Page 110 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019 C/SCA/5278/2019 JUDGMENT

in accordance with the provision of Rule 23 of the Rules, as there is
nonadvertance to the material placed on record and there is
noncompliance with the principle of natural justice as no requisite
information was made available and the conclusions are
diametrically opposed to the material on record. Therefore, we are
left with no other alternative, but to remand back the matter to the
concerned authority after quashing and setting aside the same for
reconsideration on the aspects which have been mentioned herein
above and record its finding, and as the extended period of
notification of anti dumping duty is ending, the same is also
required to be extended for appropriate time so that assessing the
material and recording the final findings afresh could be undertaken
meaningfully and without jeopardizing the parties right and
contentions and rendering it infructuous. 30. In that view of the matter, the respondent no.2 is hereby
directed to undertake the exercise of recording its final finding
afresh in accordance with the observations made herein above
strictly in accordance with the provisions of Rule-23 of the Rules and
after affording full opportunity to the parties and complying with the
principles of natural justice and respondent no.1 shall appropriately
issue notification extending the anti dumping duty on the product in
question, till the final findings are rendered. 31. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the petition is allowed. The
impugned final findings dated 29.01.2019 are hereby quashed and
set aside. Sd/- (S.R.BRAHMBHATT, J)

 Sd/- (A. P. THAKER, J)
V.R. PANCHAL Page 111 of 111 Downloaded on : Wed Jul 10 02:26:01 IST 2019