The petitioner / accused no.4 in Cr.No.528 of 2012 is before this

 Court to quash an FIR in Cr.No.528/2012 for the offence under Section

http://www.judis.nic.in 2 506(i), 668 A of Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008 and

 under Section 4 of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women Harassment Act. 2. The petitioner was working as Associate Professor in the National

 Institute of Fashion Technology and he has been serving there without any

 bad remarks. The petitioner was on social networking like Twitter,

 Facebook and he always tweet with positive approach for betterment of the

 society with humanity. The contention of the petitioner is that he tweeted in

 the network as usual in response to a tweet of 2nd respondent. 3. The gist of the case is that the defacto complainant / 2nd respondent

 had lodged a complaint on 18.10.2012 and the relevant portion of the

 complaint, explaining the facts of the case are as follows: 4. The contention of the petitioner is that the petitioner who is an

 Associate Professor in the National Institute of Fashion Technology,

 Chennai was in a social networking and whenever tweeted in a social

 networking, if taken in positive pretext, the words in it are all positive and it

 is only the 2nd respondent's negative approach to the words attributing

 motive to the tweets of the petitioner. In this case, criminal intimidation

 would not arise since there was no physical presence and they have not met

 ever. Further on the averments in the complaint, Tamil Nadu Prohibition of

 Women Harassment Act would not get attributed. Further submitted that Section 66 A, IT Act has been struck down by the Apex Court in the case of Shreya Singhal Vs. Union Of India , wherein it is held that 'mere

 discussion or even advocacy of a particular cause, however unpopular is at

 the heart of Article 19(1)(a). It is only when such discussion or advocacy

 reaches the level of incitement that Article 19(2) kicks in'. 5. Further, the learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that

 though the incident is said to have been taken place on 04.01.2011, the 2nd

 respondent has made a complaint only on 18.10.2011 and the delay has not

 been explained. Subsequently, the petitioner was arrested on the false

http://www.judis.nic.in 5 complaint of the 2nd respondent on 18.10.2012 and he was released on bail

 on 01.11.2012, which has caused innumerable sufferings and harassment.

 Further the 2nd respondent is actively tweeted with lakhs for her

 entrepreneurial venture-Blue Elephant business proposal and she has used

 this false complaint as a threat to others and curtailing others to have free

 expression of their thoughts and views. The 2nd respondent is propagating a

 particular group of people and she is against the social justice and the

 petitioner relied on several judgments to support his contention. 1. In Shreya Singhal Vs. Union of India reported in 2015 (5) SCC

 1, it is held that '' Section 66 A of the Information Technology Act 2000 is

 struck down in its entirety being violative of Article 19(1) (a) and not saved

 under Article 19(2)''. 2. In Gouresh Mehra Vs. .State (Crl.O.P.No.13501 of 2010 dated

 25.10.2010), it is held that ''This Court considers it reasonable to hold that Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act 1988

 was meant to deal with offences occurring in the places informed or in

 places of like nature. If not so read, the mention of particular places in

 Section 4 would be rendered found sufficient cause to take cognizance...

http://www.judis.nic.in 6 6. The 2nd respondent / defacto complainant submits that she is a

 trained singer in both Hindustani and classical carnatic music and got

 trained under prominent singers and celebrities. She is also trained as a

 classical odissi dancer and she is a recognized Gold medalist singer of the

 All India Radio and is a graded artist for both Hidustani and Ghazal music

 by the All India Radio. She is also a play back singer and has sung over a

 1000 songs in eight languages including Tamil, Telugu, Kannada,

 Malayalam, Marathi, Gujarati, Tulu and Hindi and she uses the social media

 including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram and she has over 7,50,000

 followers on Twitter and she uses the Twitter medium to interact with her

 fans and followers. 7. On 04.01.2011, the 2nd respondent received a tweet, requesting for

 financial assistance from a student pursuing medical education on grounds

 of economic backwardness. The 2nd respondent could not financially afford

 a seat in a private medical college and she replied that it was sad that

 meritorious students were losing out on education. This provoked 1st

 accused against her and she has received tweets on the basis of her caste

http://www.judis.nic.in 7 origin. Since the tweets were intimidating and vulgar, she stopped tweets

 with the accused persons. Soon after, several persons wrote in an abusive,

 insulting and intimidating way about her and her mother. They threatened

 her with physical harm like rape, acid attacks. Amongst those persons, the

 accused persons in the complaint are the most persistent. 8. In continuation of the same, five accused persons were persistent in

 sending her hate messages, insulting her by her gender, threatening physical

 harm including rape and ashame her, with acid attacks and worse to both the

 2nd respondent and her mother. During such time, A3 sent a proposal of

 marriage to the 2nd respondent's mother stating that he wished to marry 2nd

 respondent, which was subsequently turned down. Thereafter A3 also

 blogged an essay in social network by abusing the 2nd respondent. The 2nd

 respondent and her mother appealed to these people to resist them from such

 activities. However, the act of the accused persons continued and therefore,

 the 2nd respondent left with no other option, blocked the accounts of about

 50 persons, who were in tandem with the tweets of A1 to A5. However, A1

 to A5 somehow managed to enter into Twitter discussion by changing their

 names or twitter handles. http://www.judis.nic.in 8 9. The 2nd respondent submits that every time she blocked a Twitter

 Account of the accused, they would open new Twitter handles and would

 enter the discussions using these new Twitter handles. For example, A3 has

 five Twitter handles (1)@rajanleaks; (2)@rajan-alinall; (3)@rajarajan;

 (4)@Zhavinci and (5) @reniguntaboys. Numerous messages were sent by

 A1 abusing the 2nd respondent using any of these 5 twitter handles. The

 petitioner herein, whose Twitter handle is @sharankay would keep

 changing his Twitter name and would sent tweets in the name of

 'vasantham'. 10. The act of all the accused was in tandem with each other and they

 continued to tweet against the 2nd respondent and her mother by insulting

 them. 11. The 2nd respondent further states that during this time a number of

 trends on Twitter was also initiated against her. For example,

 #Asingapattalachinmayi, #Chinmayihatesus and so on which was followed

 by hundreds of people. The resultant public campaign was emotionally and

http://www.judis.nic.in 9 personally traumatic, which affected the respondent's livelihood and

 fundamental right to occupation, and also spread rumours about her,

 affecting her professional standing. The #asingapattalchinmayi'' hashtag was

 started by A1, it was used and promoted by A2 and A4. A4 in particular,

 kept bullying and commenting about the caste identity of the second

 respondent and threatened that if she did not unblock him, he would insult

 and attack her. Further the 2nd respondent would state that the virulence of

 the campaign forced her mother to approach many of those participating in

 the personalized hate campaigns and attacks against the 2nd respondent

 explaining the true facts and the insidious nature of the smear campaign and

 that the message itself was totally false. Her mother also requested them

 to stop disparaging and shaming the 2nd respondent and herself as she

 needed to get the 2nd respondent married off with dignity and she also tried

 to reach the 5 accused person named in the complaint. She spoke to A-2

 Senthil Kumar requesting him to stop the vicious campaign and the type of

 emotional, mental and personal trauma which had affected the respondent is

 life seriously. She also asked him to arrange a meeting with the other

 accused so she could explain and request them not to harass the 2 nd

 respondent. But A2 was very hostile and cut the call of the 2nd respondent

http://www.judis.nic.in 10 mother. A2 tweeted saying that a ''Kezhavi' (old woman) claiming to be

 Chinmayi's mother had called him requesting him to stop the personalized

 Twitter attacks on the 2nd respondent. This started a Twitter conversation

 between A2 Senthil Kumar and A4 Saravana Kumar Perumal (this can be

 found as page 1 in the typed set of the petitioner). A-2 Senthil Kumar's

 above tweet-''Konjam vayasayiduche...paravayillai umakku settaagum use

 pannikum;-)'' (She is a little old, but it doesn't matter, she will suit you, ''use

 her'). The '',-)'' symbol meant a winking image. The deeply insulting and

 humiliating content of the tweets above, compelled the 2nd respondent to

 copy the display picture of A-4, Sarava Kumar Perumal @ Vasantham who

 tweeted as @ sharankay and post the same picture on her facebook page,

 asking her followers if they could identify the man. This prompted A4 to

 send a tweet on 06.10.2012 threatening the 2nd respondent to remove her

 Facebook post. Despite their repeated entreaties to desist from continuing

 this online tirade against the 2nd respondent and her mother, the accused in a

 very brazen manner continued with their insulting messages and

 personalized attacks using their vulnerabilities as women. Left with no

 option, the 2nd respondent approached the police in view of clear evidence

 of cyber-harassment, bullying and insult meted to her and her mother as

http://www.judis.nic.in 11 women, which are all offences under the IT Act, IPC and Womens

 Harassment Act. The FIR came to be registered on 19.10.2012. 12. The 2nd respondent further submitted that though Section 66 A of

 Information Technology Act has been struck down, the offence committed

 by the petitioner would squarely fall under Section 67 and the investigation

 Agency on conclusion of investigation can alter the charges depending upon

 the materials collected and placed reliance on following judgments. 1. Rupan Deol Bajaj Vs. Kanwar Pal Singh Gill . Reported
 in 1995 (6) SCC 194. 'Modesty is given as ''Womanly propriety of
 behaviour , scrupulous chastity of thought, speech and conduct.
 ''Modesty is the action of the offender such as could be perceived
 as one which is capable of shocking the sense of decency of a
 woman, the ingredients being states of mind may have to be
 inferred from the offending circumstances of a given case'. 2.Additional District and Sessions Judge Vs. Registrar
 General High Court of Madhya Pradesh reported in 2015 (4)
 SCC 1991 ''Whether the perception of the harassed individual was
 conveyed to the person accused, would be very material in a case
 falling in the realm of over sensitivity. 3.Deputy Inspector General of Police Vs. S.Samuthiram http://www.judis.nic.in 12 reported in 2013 (1) SCC 598. ''Every citizen in this country has
 the right to live with dignity and honour which is a fundamental
 right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.
 Sexual harassment like eve teasing of women amounts to
 violation of rights guaranteed under Article 14 , 15 as well. Eve-teasing today has become a pernicious, horrid and
 disgusting practice. Eve-teasing categorised into five heads. 1. Verbal eve-teasing 2. Physical eve-teasing 3. Pshychological harassment 4. Sexual harassment and 5. Harassment through some object. 4. Dr.Sanjay Prabakar Gadekar Vs. State of Maharastra
 reported in 2017 SCC online. Bom 2167. In view of Section 66
 (A) of IT Act being struck down, it does not impede to proceed
 with other offences on the materials available. 13. The learned Government Advocate submitted that investigation in

 this case is in progress and the main server of twitter is in United States and

 hence, a communication has been sent to the Registrant-Twitter, San

 Francisco, United States for furnishing necessary details for further

http://www.judis.nic.in 13 investigation. Further, the witnesses have been examined and charge sheet

 would be filed shortly. Further the specific contention of the 2nd respondent

 that offence under Section 67 of Information Technology Act has been

 made out would be considered based on the materials. It is also submitted

 that the other offences are also made out. 14. Considering the rival submissions and perusal of materials it is

 seen that petitioner has not denied sending such Twitter messages.

 According to the petitioner the messages are trivial and to be expected by

 female celebrities from men. The harassment continued despite 2nd

 respondent and her mother made clear their sensitiveness to such messages,

 shocking the sense of decency of a woman. Hence the petitioner's

 contention that he had not harassed the 2nd respondent cannot be

 countenanced. 15. Every person has the right to live with dignity and honour, which

 is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of

 India. The act of the petitioner amounts to violation of rights guaranteed

 under Articles 14 , 15 of Constitution of India. http://www.judis.nic.in 14 16. The Apex Court has in categorical terms has held that quashing of

 FIR should not to be entertained and it has to be viewed with great care and

 caution. Investigation cannot be scuttled at the threshold and FIR is not an

 encyclopedia. 17. The respondent Police had found materials against the petitioner

 and charge sheet would be filed shortly. The petitioner and other accused

 having accessed the defacto complainant through communication device to

 communicate and transmit text, transmitting obscene material in electronic

 form are in violation of Information Technology Act , apart from IPC .

 Striking of 66 A of IT Act will no way hamper the investigation of the case

 for other offences under IT Act . 18. In view of the same, the petition is dismissed. Taking into

 consideration that the FIR in this case came to be registered during 2012,

 the respondent Police is directed to give priority in completing the

 investigation and file final report within a stipulated time preferably within

 a period of 3 months from the date of receipt of this order.

http://www.judis.nic.in 15 05.08.2019
 sk

 Internet:Yes/No
 Index : Yes/No
 Speaking/Non speaking order

 To 1.The Inspector of Police,
 Cyber Cell, Central Crime Branch,
 Egmore, Chennai-600 008. 2.The Public Prosecutor,
 Madras High Court. M.NIRMAL KUMAR, J. sk

http://www.judis.nic.in 16 Pre-Delivery Judgment
 in Crl.O.P.No.232 of 2013 05.08.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in