SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What you all feel about these reports and incidents? 
DATE: 2024-10-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1g6bn0d/what_you_all_feel_about_these_reports_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

It seems that nation's narrative is carried out by a group of certain specific communities. They are very selective and only indent to show own good deeds, struggles and keep silence over others atrocities, mocking other struggles, hide own mischievous activities and negative agendas. I also observed that most social media platforms are overcrowded or dominanted by those peoples only, who don't like to entertain counters arguments and expose and still love to regard themselves as if they are being unbiased. How much hypocrite those people are, I just can't estimate. Also I never able to accept that part of Gen z of such groups are just talk and act like old peoples. There Basic characteristics are mocking, ignoring, abusing and then defaming or tagging labels depending what suits to their narrative. 

Correspondingly on attached five pictures, I got five following questions/ observations.

1. Although the estimated count of SC/ST &amp; OBC is the major portion of India's total population, still almost 80-90% are deprived of respect, wealth and status. During COVID phase (2019-2022), wealth dropped from 15.2% to 9% for OBC, 3.5% to 2.6% for Dalits, but contrary to trend General Categories shown huge rise from 81.4% to 88.4%. Is EWS reservation is really needed? which wasn't based on any recent done surveys etc. I 'personally' know some general category people are poor but still giving as large as 10% reservation seems hugely baseless and part of selective appeasement. It also satisfied the idea that through adding 10% EWS reservation, about 98% GEN Population would then be financially covered. But similar things seemingly not happening with other groups, mostly with OBCs where people are just 9% wealthy, say about 55% of population but 27% are reserved. Same problem is with SC/ST, with their combined population of 21+9=30% , get reservation about 16 + 7= 23% but participation in wealth is just 2.6%+ delta (for Dalits). These things are so unfair. Also, mainstream media don't want to expose the reservation scams majorly happening with non-EWS guys. System hate non EWS, accept it or not, but its fact. 

Just to not cry over the correctness of data (some number I assume at last), to have correct data one should call for census but surprisingly, Why mostly so-called upper caste still opposes Caste census demand. Any short of data collection should be problematic for party. 

2. There are lots of reported cases of caste based atrocities against Dalits and STs; isn't it 21st century? A report says about 47000 cases were registered in single year, that's huge. Way more than death of police person during duties, loss of lives in naxals and terrorist attacks combined. If a group of these people starts demanding justice or come out on streets for rights, then they're labelled as being Andolanjivi, Ugrawadi, Casteist, Deshdrohi, urban naxal, maowadi, even left wingers etc. even media don't show most of their struggles. 

3. Without doubt, BJ Party always being claver, habitually indulge themselves in supporting bad elements and activities in name of religion, nationalism. They also got vote bank but never disclose. They change exact definition of some good words like Nationalism, Religious, Unity, Jagriti etc for own gain. It's just not BJ Party but it's allied bodies like RSS, VHP does a lot of help, still calling oneself as non political. In other hand both obc, muslims and SC have less celebrated organisations. But mostly bad and negative are being attached to BJ Party and its alliances. People are feeding other to only regarding Lalu Rule as jungle raj or Gunda raj but utter no word for BJP ruled states when even crime surpassed the former. Selected targeting Yadav dominant rules is visible. Also notice that even during those days the bahubali and mafia were largely belong to landlords, and UC and muslims. 

4. I have heard people say SC ST act is unfair. But reality of that such a strict act is weakening. System neglecting the act or dismisses the case. Even in real &amp; serious event, police disregard the act. Recently parliament tried changing certain clause to weak its core. Its just become instrument of lobbying others group against SC/ST citing an unfair previlage they possess, in reality act is not regarded in most of the case unless victim has some social status. Thus, most goons aren't afraid of beating and abusing the Dalits. 

5. Lastly, we all not if your father (family) don't have government jobs then its a serious risk to avail EWS (through fake income certificate). If you are just rich business or retail owners then its a easy way to make 40k income even you're rich ass. In a country like India this is not difficult to get fake income certificates and EWS what majorly assess income and properties below given threshold and be beneficial to undeserving guys. I'm also not showing they're not a case of obtaining fake caste certificate. In former case poor UC loose the benefits and in later SC ST OBC reservations get infiltrated. 

So are we Indian don't believe in idea of fairness and justice giving others through affirmative actions. Why we bear grudge against Dalits? 

Just don't just pick up the berries out of the cake.