SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: my friend is doing bussiness development project ,aggrigator model
DATE: 2021-11-29
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/r4p5nn/my_friend_is_doing_bussiness_development_project/

--- POST TEXT ---

hey im new here dk how reddit works ,but i wanna share this ,

that frnd came delhi so he stayed with me ,the reason was he had metting in delhi hotel ,i asked what and how he started this bussiness and he said his cousin is workin in this from 2 years and earning more then 6-lakhs a year, then he showed me his fligh tickets and bank balnce which was not much but decent .and he was working there from just 3 months and said he already recovered half of money that he paid for buying microsoft platform and all ,that total costed him 2.5lakhs. he moreover said that withiin 5 years he ll have money millions,and what i ll be doing is btech degre.i knew its too good to be true but i somehow got convinced cuz he was my childhoodfriend. later i said him to get me interviewed and he said he ll talk to his seniors .i attended a telephonic interview and after that zoom interview by two of his so called high seniors ,one of them was ex doctor and he boasted that hes earing 2-3 lakhs a week ,and said BS motivation. they explained me thats its a global aggrigator bussiness project/model and they make bussiness model for many big comapines for 106 countries and said if i wanna join then need to pay 2.80lakhs after i get selected and i just neede to work minium of 2-3 hours a day anytime .before that i ll have trainig of 30days. thankfully i saw yt videos on MLM AND chain marketii ,otherwise i was about to pay him money and get stuck there.

but still i ll observe that friend and see if its actually same as MLM or diff and weather he really get profit or not. and ll update. what do u guys think is this real or scam ,and did anyone had similiar experience&gt;?

Update : he tried hard to convince and and assured that my money ll get recovered soon and even said that if i want to quit after 2-3 months then i can freely do it and he ll refund all the amount. I was listening and thinking that i use to call him my childhood frnd and here he is trying to make me fall in trap .