YASHWANT VARMA, J. FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 1 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 1. This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 03 July 2023
 passed by a learned Single Judge in terms of which an interim
 injunction came to be granted in favour of the plaintiff/respondent
 restraining the defendant/appellant from using the word "INDAMET"
 or any other mark which may be said to be identical or deceptively
 similar to the plaintiff's registered mark "ISTAMET XR CP". 2. When the appeal was originally entertained, we had by an order
 of 26 July 2023, placed the temporary injunction so granted in
 abeyance. We had the privilege of hearing detailed and erudite
 submissions addressed by Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Amit Sibal, learned
 senior counsels appearing for the appellant and Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and
 Mr. Jayant Mehta, learned senior counsels appearing for the
 respondents. 3. For the purpose of final disposal of the instant appeal we propose
 to take note of the following salient facts. The plaintiff/respondent Sun
 Pharma Laboratories Ltd.1 is asserted to be one of the leading
 pharmaceuticals companies in the world and is a wholly-owned
 subsidiary of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.2. SPIL has
 operated in the pharmaceutical sector since 1978 and markets drugs and
 formulations across 150 countries under various brand and trade names.
 It is also stated to have 45 manufacturing sites spread over 6 continents,
 10 world class Research Centres and employs over 37,000 individuals. Sun Pharma 2 SPIL

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 2 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 4. In 2010 Sun Pharma's predecessor Merck Sharp & Dohme
 Corp.3 is stated to have coined and adopted the trademark ―ISTAMET‖
 and applied for registration of the said mark. The mark ―ISTAMET‖ is
 stated to have been assigned by Merck to MSD International GmBH4
 on 01 July 2022, and which in turn and thereafter, assigned the same to
 Sun Pharma with respect to India vide an Assignment Deed dated 6
 July 2022. Merck is stated to have used the trademark ―ISTAMET‖ in
 India since 2011. 5. Merck's first application for registration of ―ISTAMET‖ as a
 word mark was filed on 02 December 2010. The aforesaid application
 is stated to have been opposed by a third party and which challenge is
 still pending consideration. On 22 April 2014, Merck filed another

 application for registration of ― ‖ as a device mark. In the
 course of examination, the Registrar of Trade Marks5 is stated to
 have cited ―ASTAMET‖, ―INSTAMET‖ and ―ESTIMET‖ as
 conflicting marks. The said application ultimately came to be refused
 by an order dated 28 September 2018. The refusal came to be assailed
 by the predecessor of Sun Pharma by way of C.A.(COMM.IPD-TM)
 22/2022. The aforesaid appeal was ultimately allowed by our Court in
 terms of a judgment rendered on 20 April 2023. An event of some
 significance connected with the aforesaid appeal, and which merits
 notice, is the following. Merck 4 MSD 5 Registrar

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 3 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 6. In the course of prosecution of the aforenoted application, Merck
 is stated to have taken the position that ASTAMET, INSTAMET and
 ESTIMET were not deceptively similar. Aggrieved by the refusal of
 that application, Merck had preferred the appeal details of which have
 been set out hereinabove. In that appeal, Sun Pharma moved an
 application for amendment of the grounds of appeal and sought to
 reverse the stand that had been taken by Merck with respect to
 deceptive similarity concerned with the cited marks. Sun Pharma
 asserted that it could not be held bound by the stand taken by its
 predecessor. This, Sun Pharma contended, more so when the issue of
 deceptive similarity is essentially one of law. It appears to have been
 additionally urged that cyclostyled replies submitted in the course of
 proceedings taken before the Registrar cannot be viewed as being
 determinative of the question. It was further asserted by Sun Pharma
 that no products bearing the marks INSTAMET, ASTAMET or
 ESTIMET were found existing in the market. It had also alluded to the
 registration of those marks itself having lapsed. The said application for
 amendment came to be allowed by the Court on 13 April 2023. 7. The appeal thereafter came to be allowed on 20 April 2023 with
 the Court holding as follows: - (Valid up/ renewed up to 19th
 November, 2018) 4. Word mark - ‗ASTAMET' under Refused. Trade Mark Application No. 2273369

 This brings us to conflicting mark at Sl. No. 3 - ‗ESTIMET'
 registered under Trade Mark Application No. 1894414. The said
 mark has been recently renewed and is valid up to December
 2029. However, Mr. Sachin Gupta, counsel for Appellant, has
 pointed out that, as per his information, the said mark is not in
 use. To buttress his submissions, he places reliance on the
 screenshots of e-commerce portals where the products under the
 name ‗ESTIMET' has been advertised/ marketed, but are shown
 as unavailable. As regards similarity with the conflicting marks,
 Mr. Gupta argues that resemblance is immaterial as the marks are
 not in use. He requests that Appellant's application should be
 allowed to be advertised and objection, if any, can be considered
 at the stage of opposition. 4. Appellant has a registration of word mark ‗ISTAMET XR CP'
 under Trade Mark Application No. 2753891. This mark, although
 not identical to subject mark, certainly includes the word
 ‗ISTAMET' and has been in use since the year-2011. Considering
 the facts noted above, in the opinion of the Court, the mark can be
 allowed to be advertised before acceptance. 5. In view of the above, the present appeal is allowed with
 following directions: FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 5 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 (e) Appellant shall also send a copy of the order passed today to
 the proprietors of competing/ cited marks.‖ 8. Merck obtained registration of the trademark "ISTAMET XR
 CP" pursuant to an application dated 11 June 2014 which was made on
 a ―proposed to be used basis‖. The same came to be ultimately accepted
 on 07 February 2021 subject to the condition that ―the mark to be read
 as whole‖. It is pertinent to note that "XR" is stated to be an acronym
 for "Extended Release" while "CP" is stated to be an abbreviation for
 "Combi-Pack". 9. According to Sun Pharma, ―ISTAMET‖ contains the salt
 ‗Metformin Hydrochloride' and ‗Sitagliptin Phosphate Monohyrdrate'
 and is used to treat diabetes. The aforesaid formulation is sold in the
 form of tablets under the extensions ―ISTAMET‖, ―ISTAMET XR‖
 and ―ISTAMET XR CP‖ and is a Schedule ‗G' drug. Sun Pharma had
 alleged that in May 2022 it came across the appellant's/ Glenmark's
 application for ―INDAMET‖ which had been submitted on a ―proposed
 to be used‖ basis. The mark ―INDAMET‖ is stated to have been
 granted registration on 26 May 2021. Taking recourse of the order
 dated 21 March 2022 in Dr. Reddys Laboratories Ltd. vs. Controller
 of Patents Designs & Trade Marks6 , and which had extended the
 limitation for filing of opposition till 30 May 2022, both SPIL and
 Merck filed their opposition on 27 and 30 May 2022. It was the case of
 Sun Pharma that it was in the first week of September 2022, and after 6 2022 SCC OnLine Del 813

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 6 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 filing of the opposition, that it came across Glenmark's listing of the
 medicine and consequently instituted the suit in question. 10. Sun Pharma appears to have asserted before the learned Single
 Judge that the impugned mark, namely, ―INDAMET‖ is confusingly
 similar to ―ISTAMET‖ when tested on the principles of visual,
 structural and phonetic similarity. It was further asserted that the
 adoption of the impugned mark by Glenmark amounts to infringement
 under Sections 29 (1) and (2) of the Trade Marks Act, 19997 and
 would result in erosion of the distinctiveness of Sun Pharma's mark. It
 was further alleged that a human error in reading or construing
 Glenmark's mark could mislead a user into purchasing an incorrect
 medicine and thus have an adverse impact. Considering the likelihood
 of confusion on account of similarity between the two marks, Sun
 Pharma asserted that public interest must be accorded precedence
 bearing in mind the principles enunciated by the Supreme Court in Cadila Healthcare vs. Cadila Pharmaceuticals8 . 11. Insofar as the appellant9 is concerned, it appears to have
 contended that ―INDAMET‖ constituted a novel fixed dose
 combination drug for treatment of uncontrolled asthma. It was their
 case that ―INDAMET‖ is distinguishable from ―ISTAMET‖/
 ―ISTAMET XR CP‖ since both are meant to treat different ailments
 and are also packaged distinctively. It was contended that while 7 Act 8 (2001) 5 SCC 73
 9 Glenmark

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 7 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 ―INDAMET‖ is sold as a capsule to be inhaled with the aid of a Dry
 Powder Inhaler10, ―ISTAMET‖ is consumed as a tablet and thus there
 is no likelihood of confusion. It also appears to have been averred that
 Sun Pharma had failed to obtain registration for the mark ―ISTAMET‖
 and the registration held by it in respect of ―ISTAMENT XR CP‖ is
 liable to be read as a composite whole in terms of the specific
 restrictions imposed by the Registrar while granting the mark. In view
 of the above, Glenmark argued that Sun Pharma can claim no
 monopoly or exclusive right over the mark ―ISTAMET‖. 12. Without prejudice to the above, Glenmark averred that it had
 coined the term ―INDAMET‖ from the constituent chemical
 compounds with ―INDA‖ representing ―Indacaterol acetate‖ and
 ―MET‖ standing for ―Mometasone furorate‖. Similarly, it was
 contended that Sun Pharma's drug ―ISTAMET‖ also appears to have
 adopted the word ―MET‖ from the usage of a constituent compound,
 namely, ―Metformin‖ contained therein. In view of the above,
 Glenmark contended that Sun Pharma's allegations are wholly
 unfounded. 13. It was further asserted that Sun Pharma could claim no monopoly
 over the term ―MET‖ given that it is common to the trade. It was
 contended that various drugs using the suffix ―MET‖ are available in
 the market and thus the allegations as levelled by Sun Pharma are
 wholly untenable. The appellant also appears to have sought to draw
 distinction between the two competing marks by virtue of Sun 10 DPI

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 8 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 Pharma's drug falling under Schedule ‗G' whereas that of Glenmark's
 having been placed in Schedule ‗H'. It also appears to have been argued
 before the learned Single Judge that Sun Pharma had taken an
 inconsistent and contradictory stand in the course of examination
 proceedings evidenced from it having sought to distinguish its mark
 from a cited conflicting mark, namely, ―INTAMET‖. It was pointed out
 that Sun Pharma took an identical stand when the Registrar had cited
 ―ASTAMET‖, ―INSTAMET‖ and ―ESTIMET‖. The aforesaid
 admission, according to Glenmark, was sufficient to warrant the refusal
 of injunction. 14. The learned Single Judge had upon considering the aforesaid
 submissions firstly held against Glenmark on grounds of deceptive
 similarity by holding that although Sun Pharma's registration was for
 the composite mark ―ISTAMET XR CP‖, the dominant feature thereof
 is liable to be recognized as ―ISTAMET‖. In view of the aforesaid, the
 learned Single Judge held that the distinguishing feature of Sun
 Pharma's mark is the term ―ISTAMET‖ and which when compared to
 ―INDAMET‖ exhibits striking similarity. The learned Single Judge
 held against the appellant also on the grounds of structural and phonetic
 similarity. This is evident from paragraph 7 of the impugned judgment,
 which is reproduced hereinbelow: 15. The learned Judge then took note of the salient principles as
 enunciated in Cadila Healthcare and where the Supreme Court had
 propounded the rule of added caution which would apply in the case of
 drugs and pharmaceutical products. Bearing the aforesaid principles in
 mind, the learned Judge held as follows: 16. The Court ultimately proceeded to hold that the competing marks
 ―ISTAMET‖ and ―INDAMET‖ were clearly structurally and
 phonetically similar and merely because Glenmark's product was to be
 consumed with the aid of a DPI device, the same would not constitute a
 justifiable ground to refuse injunction. This, the learned Judge held,
 since DPI was not found to be an intrinsic part of the drug but merely
 an accessory and the purchase of which was discretionary. The learned
 Single Judge also alluded to the likelihood of confusion at the point of
 purchase irrespective of the mode of administration. The Court in this
 regard observed as follows: Although Glenmark has emphasized that the difference in these
 compounds as a significant point of distinction, however, in the
 Court's view, the marked similarity between Glenmark's and Sun
 Pharma's brand names overshadow these differences in
 composition, due to the shared suffix ―MET.‖ This could cause
 substantial confusion among consumers suffering from either
 asthma or diabetes, potentially leading to serious consequences. It
 is important to note that, in pharmaceuticals, minor differences in
 composition or formulation can yield significantly varied effects
 on the body, including potential side effects. It is thus critical that
 the public is not misled into purchasing a product under the belief
 that it has a specific composition or formulation, only to discover
 it contains different active ingredients. A more stringent test must
 be applied to pharmaceutical products, given their significant
 impact on public health and safety. Consumers trust these brand
 names for their respective health conditions and consequently,
 any ambiguity concerning a drug's composition or formulation
 could result in grave health repercussions.‖ 17. The learned Judge also held against Glenmark based on the
 adverse effect likely to ensue upon a mistaken consumption of
 ―INDAMET‖ in place of ―ISTAMET‖ and observed as follows: drug meant for asthma, blood sugar levels of the patient will
 increase on account of the molecules of "Indameterol" and
 "Mometason" present in the drug and also on account of the
 patient missing out on their actual prescribed dosage of
 "ISTAMET". If untreated, damage could occur to the blood
 vessels and could aggravate the potentiality of heart disease,
 stroke, kidney disease, vision problem and even nerve problems. 17. As illustrated by Mr. Gupta there is also a second scenario
 where a person suffering from asthma accidentally takes Sun
 Pharma's "ISTAMET" drug which is used to treat diabetes. That,
 as highlighted by him, can lead to Hypoglycaemia and continuing
 such dosage would lead to dramatic fall in a person's blood sugar
 levels leading to Hypoglycaemic coma which can have varied
 outcomes including death. Further, considering that the person
 taking "INSTAMET" is suffering from asthma, he would be miss
 out on his prescribed dosage of "INDAMET" which may worsen
 his asthma over time. 18. Thus, the clinical consequence of the accidental consumption
 of an incorrect drug is a 'grey area' and cannot be a point of
 differentiation for this Court to rule out any possibility of
 confusion between the two drugs. On the contrary, the scenarios
 illustrated by counsel underscore the need for a rigorous
 assessment.‖ 18. Insofar as the question of estoppel during the process of
 examination is concerned, the learned Judge held that the question of
 deceptive similarity is essentially one which is legal in character, and
 consequently, principles of estoppel would have no application.
 Proceeding then to evaluate the aspect of balance of convenience, the
 Court held that undisputedly Sun Pharma had been using the mark

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 13 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 ―ISTAMET‖ since 2011, and thus evidently over a considerable period
 of time and which would necessarily result in market recognition. The
 Court took into account the fact that Glenmark had launched
 ―INDAMET‖ only on 16 June 2022, and in the face of an opposition
 which had already been filed by Sun Pharma on 27 May 2022 against
 the use of the mark. The Court consequently took the view that
 Glenmark appeared to have consciously chosen to use the impugned
 mark despite the existing opposition and the said action being liable to
 be construed as either ―negligence‖ or a ―strategic gamble‖. It then
 bore in consideration the well-established ―first in the marketplace‖
 principle to hold in favour of Sun Pharma. On an overall conspectus of
 the aforesaid, an order of injunction came to be framed in the following
 terms: 19. Addressing submissions on the appeal, Dr. Singhvi and Mr.
 Sibal, learned senior counsels, submitted that Sun Pharma was clearly
 not entitled to interim protection bearing in mind the fact that the suffix
 "MET" is not liable to be viewed as a source identifier or one over
 which it could claim a monopoly. Emphasis was laid on the suffix

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 14 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 ―MET‖ being common in the pharmaceutical trade and thus liable to be
 ignored while comparing the two marks. According to learned senior
 counsels, if the aforesaid aspects were kept in mind, it would be evident
 that the conclusions arrived at by the learned Single Judge with respect
 to deceptive similarity are rendered wholly unsustainable. 20. It was further submitted that in light of the judgment rendered by
 the Court in South India Beverages vs. General Mills11 if ―XR CP‖
 were to be excluded in the course of comparison of the two marks, then
 following identical principles, the common to the trade suffix ―MET‖
 was also liable be excluded. This, according to learned senior counsels,
 would lead one to identifying the essential feature of Sun Pharma's
 mark being "ISTA" while that of Glenmark being "INDA" which are
 ex facie dissimilar. 21. Dr. Singhvi sought to draw sustenance for the aforenoted
 submissions from the following observations appearing in F.
 Hoffmann-La Roche & Co. Ltd. v. Geoffrey Manner & Co. (P)
 Ltd.12 and where while considering competing marks ―DROPOVIT‖
 and ―PROTOVIT‖, injunction was refused in the following terms: 22. Dr. Singhvi also relied upon the observations in Schering
 Corpn. v. Alkem Laboratories Ltd. 13 to contend that common to
 trade suffixes should be excluded in the course of comparison of
 competing marks: TEMAZEPAM--a benzodiazepine used as a sedative and
 hypnotic in the treatment of insomnia, administered orally; organophosphorous insecticide used as a larvicide for control of
 mosquitoes and blackflies and as a veterinary ectoparasiticide;
 TEMODOX--a veterinary growth stimulant; TEMOVATE--
 trademark for preparations of clobetasol propionate. 62. It has been repeatedly recognized that in the trade of drugs it
 is a common practice to name a drug on the basis of the name of
 its active chemical compound or salt, or the disease it seeks to
 remedy, or the particular organ it is intended to treat. The name of
 such an ingredient or compound, ailment or organ being in the
 public domain and of generic nature, which has been used
 descriptively, cannot be claimed by anyone for use exclusively as
 only his/her trademark. 63. From the materials produced by the respondent, it is evident
 that TEM/TEMO have been employed in place of
 TEMOZOLOMIDE or as abbreviations for certain other
 medicines. No doubt TEM/TEMO have also been used in place of
 ‗TEMODAL' and TEMODAR'. However, there is nothing to
 suggest that TEM/TEMO mean, and only mean,
 TEMODAL/TEMODAR and nothing else. Even when
 TEM/TEMO is used in relation to ‗TEMODAL' and
 ‗TEMODAR', the reference is actually to the chemical compound
 TEMOZOLOMIDE, which is the active ingredient in
 ‗TEMODAL' and ‗TEMODAR'. 64. Consequently, in our view, prima facie the word fragment
 TEM/TEMO is publici juris and also generic for and descriptive
 of the chemical compound, TEMOZOLOMIDE, and, therefore,
 the appellants cannot claim the exclusive right to use thereof. The
 decision in Astrazeneca (supra) has rightly been held to apply on
 all fours to the cases in hand. 65. As the appellants have chosen to brand their product with a
 generic and descriptive prefix ‗TEMO', any other person entering
 the market would be entitled to use the said term to identify the
 product in question. If the appellants were desirous of avoiding
 such a situation, they should have branded their drug with a
 unique name instead of a descriptive name [see Rhizome
 Distilleries P. Ltd. (supra)]. 112. The drugs of the respondents can be bought only against
 prescriptions from cancer hospitals, institutions and cancer
 specialists and not otherwise. The appellants have not produced
 any credible material to show actual confusion or that their
 product is, in any way, superior to that of the respondents which
 could be relied upon at this stage of the proceedings. 113. The aforesaid trademarks cannot be deciphered or considered
 separately i.e. by fragmenting them, but must be taken as a whole.
 But even if they are taken as a whole, the prefix TEMO used with
 suffix KEM and GET in the two competing names distinguish and
 differentiate the products of the appellants from those of the two
 respondents. When they are taken as a whole, the aforesaid two
 trademarks of the two respondents cannot be said to be either
 phonetically or visually or in any manner deceptively similar to
 the trademarks of the appellants i.e. TEMODAL and
 TEMODAR.‖ 23. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of this Court in Astrazeneca UK Ltd. v. Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
 Ltd.14 wherein the following was observed: 24. Apart from the decisions noticed above, the appellants also relied
 upon various other judgments which had held that words which are
 publici juris cannot form the basis for injunctive relief and of those two
 having been rendered upon actions instituted by Sun Pharma itself. The
 two decisions which were cited for our consideration were Sun
 Pharmaceutical Laboratories Vs. Hetero Healthcare Limited15 and Sun Pharmaceutical Laboratories Vs. Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd.16
 Dr. Singhvi also sought to draw sustenance from a list of third-party
 trademarks employing the words ―MET‖ and which were set out in the
 shape of a table, which is extracted hereinbelow: on 30.11.1984
 Valid upto 30.11.1994
 Pg. 1225/ pdf pg.1234
 2 VISTAMET Anti- Abandoned- Applied 1228-1229
 Hypertensive - on 05.09.2007 Used pdf pg. In view of the aforesaid, it was Dr. Singhvi's submission that the
 impugned judgment is wholly perverse when it holds that there is a
 striking similarity between the two marks. FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 23 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 25. It was then submitted that in the course of examination of the
 application made by the appellant for registration of ―INDAMET‖ by
 the Registrar, no conflicting marks were cited. According to learned
 senior counsel, this is liable to be read as the Registrar not finding the
 appellant's mark ―INDAMET‖ to be similar to those of Sun Pharma,
 namely, ―ISTAMET‖/ ―ISTAMET XR CP‖. 26. Insofar as infringement analysis is concerned, it was the
 submission of Dr. Singhvi that Sun Pharma's mark ―ISTAMET XR
 CP‖ is registered only with respect to a limited specification of goods
 being ―Pharmaceutical Preparations for treatment and prevention of
 Diabetes‖, and is further disclaimed by the following restriction- ―the
 mark to be read as a whole‖. According to Dr. Singhvi, where marks
 are not identical, the test of deceptive similarity in case of infringement
 would be the same as those employed while testing a passing-off
 action. Reliance in this respect was placed upon the decision in M/s Gufic Ltd. & Anr. vs Clinique Laboratories LLC & Anr.17 and to
 the following passage as appearing therein: 27. Proceeding then to the question of likelihood of confusion, Mr.
 Sibal contended that the test to be deployed is that of a person of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection. When tested on that
 anvil, Mr. Sibal contended, it would be evident that no individual
 would be misled into purchasing drugs meant for chronic diseases such
 as regulation of diabetes and treatment of asthma. According to learned
 senior counsel, in cases where the end consumer is habitually used to
 taking a daily dose of specific strength as prescribed by a medical
 practitioner and is familiar with the manner and mode of administration
 of the drug, there would be no likelihood of confusion and that in any
 case the possibility of confusion would clearly stand diminished. 28. Mr. Sibal also sought to draw strength from the fact that while
 Sun Pharma's drug was placed in Schedule ‗G', Glenmark's drug
 ―INDAMET‖ stands placed in Schedule ―H‖, and thus cannot be
 procured over-the-counter except when the drug is sought to be
 purchased on the basis of a prescription. It was contended in this
 respect that even in the event of an over-the-counter sale, a chemist
 would not be able to dispense Sun Pharma's drug ―ISTAMET‖ or for
 that matter that of the appellant's ―INDAMET‖ without reference to the
 specified strength. FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 25 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 29. Mr. Sibal further submitted that one would also have to bear in
 consideration the striking differences in trade dress. These were sought
 to be explained by reference to the following comparative chart: FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 28 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 MRP 100 mg Variant Rs.145/- 160 mcg Variant
 Rs.399/- Prescription Prescribed by a General Practitioner/ Prescribed by
 Endocrinologist Pulmonologist
 Always prescribed as T. ISTAMET Always prescribed as
 50/500mg or TAB. ISTAMET DPI R/C INDAMET
 320mcg
 T. stands for tablets
 DPI INDAMET 160
 mcg
 R/c INDAMET
 80mcg for first time
 user along with
 inhaler device. Prescribed always for
 first time users with
 Instahaler/ Rotahaler
 or other similar
 device

 Method of Oral solid dosage Tablet to be Through Inhaler
 intake swallowed up with water Device to use a Dry
 Powder Inhaler,
 remove the inhaler
 cap, if there is one. Add or load a capsule
 of medicine as
 directed by your
 health care provider. Tilt your head back a
 little, and breathe out
 slowly and
 completely. FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 29 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 Place the inhaler's
 mouthpiece in your
 mouth. Inhale quickly
 and deeply through
 your mouth for 2 or 3
 seconds. 30. In support of the aforenoted submissions, Mr. Sibal also relied
 upon the decision of our Court in Sun Pharmaceutical Laboratories
 Ltd. vs. Hetero Healthcare Ltd & Another wherein the following was
 observed: 31. Learned senior counsel then sought to highlight the aspect of
 prosecution estoppel and referred to Sun Pharma's reply as submitted in
 the course of examination of the application relating to ―ISTAMET XR
 CP‖. It was sought to be underlined that as would be evident from a
 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 31 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 reading of the response submitted by Sun Pharma, and which appears at
 page 545 of our record, the prior cited mark ―INTAMET‖ was sought
 to be explained away with it being asserted that it was visually,
 structurally or phonetically dissimilar to the mark applied for.
 According to learned senior counsel, it is not permissible for Sun
 Pharma to disavow the stand that was taken by its predecessor when it
 came to the mark ―INTAMET‖. According to the appellant, the
 respondent also appears to have taken a contradictory stand with

 respect to the device mark registration in respect of ― ‖. This
 was sought to be highlighted in the backdrop of the response of Sun
 Pharma when it sought to distinguish prior cited marks, namely,
 ―ASTAMET‖, ―INSTAMET‖ and ―ESTIMET‖. 32. Turning then to the question of balance of convenience, Mr.
 Sibal submitted that from the time of its launch on 16 June 2022,
 ―INDAMET‖ had achieved a sales turnover of more than INR 3.89
 crores and, therefore, the said factor clearly operated in favour of the
 appellant. 33. Appearing for Sun Pharma, Mr. Rohatgi and Mr. Mehta, learned
 senior counsels, addressed the following submissions. Learned senior
 counsels firstly and at the outset submitted that the appeal being
 directed against an order granting interim injunction and thus
 representing a decision of the learned Single Judge to grant
 discretionary relief based upon a prima facie evaluation of the facts as
 placed is not liable to be interfered with merely because the appellate

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 32 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 court be of the opinion that another view was possible. It was their
 submission that as is well-settled, an appellate court would desist from
 interfering with the exercise of discretion granting or refusing to grant
 injunctive reliefs unless it be shown that the view as expressed suffers
 from manifest perversity or illegality. Reliance in this regard was
 placed on the celebrated decision of the Supreme Court in Wander
 Ltd. vs. Antox India18 and where the following observations were
 made: 34. Learned senior counsels also contended that in case of
 infringement, injunction must follow. It was in this respect submitted
 that undisputedly the appellant had no existing trademark registration.
 It was thus contended that the use and adoption of the impugned mark
 by the appellant clearly amounts to infringement under Sections 29(1) & (2) of the Act and thus the learned Single Judge was justified in
 granting injunctive relief. Reliance in this respect was placed on the
 following passages as appearing in the decision of the Court in Midas
 Hygiene vs Sudhir Bhatia19 . 35. It was then submitted that Glenmark had clearly failed to
 establish an honest adoption bearing in mind the admitted position
 which emerges from the record and which would evidence the mark
 having been adopted after the opposition had been filed by Sun Pharma
 on 27 May 2022. Despite the above, learned senior counsels submitted,
 the appellant chose to launch the product with the impugned mark on
 16 June 2022 and thus at its own peril and in furtherance of it
 apparently having decided to take a calculated gamble and risk. (2004) 3 SCC 90

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 34 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 According to Mr. Rohatgi and Mr. Mehta, the adoption of such a course
 would fortify the view as taken by the learned Single Judge. Learned
 senior counsels in this respect drew our attention to the following
 observations as made by the Bombay High Court in Bal Pharma vs.
 Centaur Lab20 : They have been in the market with their mark for over a decade,
 building consumer recognition and goodwill that Glenmark surely
 cannot claim to have achieved in such a short span of time.
 Glenmark's decision to proceed with the Impugned Mark despite
 the pending opposition demonstrates their willingness to risk
 potential legal consequences. Such disregard for established
 opposition cannot serve as a basis to claim the balance of
 convenience in their favour. 27. Glenmark also avers that the correspondences in respect of the
 Merck's cease-and-desist notice prior to the institution of the suit,
 were concealed. Sun Pharma states that the cause of action

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 36 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 pleaded in the present suit arose on 27th May, 2022, when the
 opposition was filed against the Impugned Mark, which is prior to
 the date of issue of cease and desist notice. In the opinion of the
 Court, there has been no concealment or non-disclosure of any
 material and essential facts to deny the discretionary and equitable
 remedy on injunction. To the extent necessary, Sun Pharma's
 pleadings make a complete disclosure of the facts relating to the
 use of the competing marks by the parties, which is the subject
 matter of the suit. 28. Given these considerations, the balance of convenience
 distinctly favours the Plaintiff, Sun Pharma, thus warranting the
 issuance of an injunction. Furthermore, if an injunction is not
 granted, Sun Pharma may suffer an irreparable loss and damage.
 The deceptive similarity of the marks, coupled with Glenmark's
 recent market entry with a strikingly similar mark, could
 potentially lead to significant loss of business for Sun Pharma.
 More critically, it may damage Sun Pharma's long-built reputation
 and goodwill among consumers, who may inadvertently associate
 the quality and effects of Glenmark's product with Sun Pharma's
 product, due to the deceptive similarity in their marks. This
 reputational damage is intangible and often impossible to fully
 quantify or rectify, thereby characterizing it as irreparable harm.
 Furthermore, the potential health risks for consumers due to
 confusion between the two products adds a heightened element of
 public interest to this case. Therefore, in the interest of protecting
 Sun Pharma from such irreparable harm, and to safeguard public
 health, it is crucial that an injunction is granted in this case.‖ 37. Assailing the stand which was taken in the appeal, Mr. Rohatgi
 submitted that courts must proceed with added circumspection when it
 comes to medicinal products. It was submitted that merely because the
 competing medical products are scheduled drugs and aimed at treating
 different ailments or contemplating different forms of administration,
 would not constitute a sufficient or safe basis for answering the
 question of confusion. Learned senior counsels laid stress on precedents
 having consistently held that in the case of drugs the threshold of
 confusion is comparatively lower and the test of deceptive similarity

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 37 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 more stringent. Mr. Rohatgi and Mr. Mehta commended the following
 passages from Cadila Healthcare for our consideration: the plaintiff. The defendant started sale of tea in the said name
 ‗SARGAM'. This Court found that the use of the same trade
 name ‗Sargam' by the defendant could not be upheld. 40. This Court found that the plaintiff had prima facie case and
 balance of convenience was in his favour and that irreparable
 injury would be caused to the plaintiff, if the interim relief was
 not granted. Therefore, the injunction granted earlier was
 confirmed by this Court in the above decision.‖ 38. It was further submitted that the accidental consumption of
 medicine designed to treat different ailments can itself lead to
 dangerous consequences. For the purposes of the aforesaid proposition,

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 41 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 Mr. Rohatgi firstly relied upon the judgment rendered by this Court in Novartis AG vs Crest Pharma Pvt. Ltd and Anr.21 and where it was
 held: Actual deception is not required in an action of passing
 off. Century Traders v. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. , AIR 1978 Del
 250 : 1 Supp PTC 720 (Del) (DB). Therefore there is no chance of
 confusion and deception. 23. In the case of Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhat Shah, (2002)
 3 SCC 65 : (2002) 24 PTC 1 (SC) the Apex court has dealt with
 this question at great length in paras 8 and 9 which reads as
 under: 4.20 and 7.15). As to how the injunction granted by the
 Court would shape depends on the facts and circumstances
 of each case. Where a defendant has imitated or adopted the
 plaintiff's distinctive trade mark or business name, the order
 may be an absolute injunction that he would not use or carry
 on business under that name, (Kerly, ibid, para 16.97)‖ 24. The third contention of the learned counsel for the defendant
 is that the product of the parties in question is Schedule ―H‖ drug
 and the same has to be purchased by the customers only on the
 prescription of medical practitioner. The argument of the defence
 of Schedule ―H‖ drug has already been dealt with in various cases
 decided by the High Courts as well as the Apex court wherein the
 court has rejected the said submission many times. In the case
 of Cadila Pharmaceuticals (supra) in para 22 and 28 it was held as
 under: 25. Also in the case of Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. v. Dua
 Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. , AIR 1989 Del 44 : (1988) 8 PTC 273
 (Del) in para 6 it was held as under: Ltd.26, considered the submissions that two products are different
 and used for different purposes of disease and that one product is
 available only in tablet and oral suspension form whereas another
 product is available only in injection form and therefore there is
 no confusion or deception between the two products. The Delhi
 High Court held that:-- Although Glenmark has emphasized that the difference in these
 compounds as a significant point of distinction, however, in the
 Court's view, the marked similarity between Glenmark's and Sun
 Pharma's brand names overshadow these differences in
 composition, due to the shared suffix ―MET.‖ This could cause
 substantial confusion among consumers suffering from either
 asthma or diabetes, potentially leading to serious consequences. It
 is important to note that, in pharmaceuticals, minor differences in
 composition or formulation can yield significantly varied effects
 on the body, including potential side effects. It is thus critical that
 the public is not misled into purchasing a product under the belief
 that it has a specific composition or formulation, only to discover
 it contains different active ingredients. A more stringent test must
 be applied to pharmaceutical products, given their significant

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 51 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 impact on public health and safety. Consumers trust these brand
 names for their respective health conditions and consequently,
 any ambiguity concerning a drug's composition or formulation
 could result in grave health repercussions. 15. Mr. Lall fervently posited that, should a consumer mistakenly
 consume Glenmark's ―INDAMET‖ in place of Sun Pharma's
 ―ISTAMET,‖ intended for the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes, no
 adverse effects would ensue; the medication would simply be
 excreted from the body. This assertion does not find favor with
 the Court, especially considering the explicit warnings provided
 on the packaging of Glenmark's ―INDAMET‖ drug, which read as
 follows: 16. Glenmark's product labeling clearly advises users against
 ingesting the ―INDAMET‖ capsule in the same manner as an oral
 tablet, presumably due to associated health risks. As such, Mr.
 Lall's assertion that accidental ingestion would result in no harm
 seems unfounded, and moreover, this assertion is unsupported by
 any scientific evidence or research. No authoritative report, study,
 or peer-reviewed publication has been submitted to indicate the
 potential repercussions of accidental consumption of either party's
 medication. In fact, Mr. Lall's assertion is controverted by Mr.
 Gupta, who states that in a situation where a person suffering
 from diabetes accidentally consumes Glenmark's ―INDAMET‖
 drug meant for asthma, blood sugar levels of the patient will
 increase on account of the molecules of ―Indameterol‖ and
 ―Mometason‖ present in the drug and also on account of the
 patient missing out on their actual prescribed dosage of
 ―ISTAMET‖. If untreated, damage could occur to the blood
 vessels and could aggravate the potentiality of heart disease,
 stroke, kidney disease, vision problem and even nerve problems. 17. As illustrated by Mr. Gupta there is also a second scenario
 where a person suffering from asthma accidentally takes Sun
 Pharma's ―ISTAMET‖ drug which is used to treat diabetes. That,
 as highlighted by him, can lead to Hypoglycaemia and continuing
 such dosage would lead to dramatic fall in a person's blood sugar

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 52 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 levels leading to Hypoglycaemic coma which can have varied
 outcomes including death. Further, considering that the person
 taking ―INSTAMET‖ is suffering from asthma, he would be miss
 out on his prescribed dosage of ―INDAMET‖ which may worsen
 his asthma over time. 18. Thus, the clinical consequence of the accidental consumption
 of an incorrect drug is a ‗grey area' and cannot be a point of
 differentiation for this Court to rule out any possibility of
 confusion between the two drugs. On the contrary, the scenarios
 illustrated by counsel underscore the need for a rigorous
 assessment. 19. Mr. Lall has contended that confusion can be averted as the
 ―INDAMET‖ medication is intended to be used alongside a Dry
 Powder Inhaler or DPI such as a Rotahaler, which is always
 prescribed to first-time users. However, this argument doesn't
 stand as a solid distinguishing factor, given that the Rotahaler is
 not packaged with the drug but must be purchased separately, and
 it can indeed be obtained independently. Mr. Gupta has counter-
 argued, stating that there are asthma treatments available in tablet
 form. Consequently, an asthma patient could inadvertently
 consume the ―ISTAMET‖ tablet, failing to detect any anomaly.
 Additionally, it's entirely plausible that a user of the ―INDAMET‖
 medication, due to the deceptive similarity of the trademarks,
 could inadvertently obtain the ―ISTAMET‖ drug and then
 administer it in a powdered form via the Rotahaler. Thus, the
 method of administration cannot serve as the sole differentiator
 for the products and bears little relevance in this assessment.‖ 44. Proceeding then to the issue of an asserted contradictory stand
 taken before the Trademark Registry, Mr. Mehta pointed that the
 learned Single Judge had clearly found that the defendant's mark was
 never cited as a conflicting mark. It was the submission of Mr. Mehta
 that the stand taken by the predecessor of the plaintiff would clearly not
 bind or operate as estoppel. This more so when deceptive similarity is
 essentially a question of law. Mr. Mehta sought to draw strength for

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 53 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 the aforesaid proposition from the following principles as culled out by
 the Court in Sona Mahindra vs SONA BLW24 : 45. Another decision which was cited in this respect was that of Telecare Network vs. Asus Technology25 , and where the Court had
 observed as under: 46. Mr. Mehta then submitted that cyclostyled responses to
 examination reports cannot possibly constitute a basis for deciding
 valuable legal rights. Learned senior counsel in this respect cited a
 decision handed down by a learned Judge of this Court in Anil Verma
 vs R.K. Jewellers26 , and where it was held: 2626911 of the Plaintiff shows that there was not a single prior
 application or registered mark which was cited as an identical or a
 descriptively similar mark. However, in the search report filed by
 the Defendant, the defendant's mark is shown as a prior
 application. The stand of both the parties in the Trademark
 Registry has been self-defeating to say the least. The court agrees
 with the submission of Mr. Kirpal that cyclostyled oppositions
 and cyclostyled responses to examination reports, cannot be the
 basis for deciding valuable legal rights. The Plaintiff filed ‗copy-
 paste' responses to the examination reports even when there was
 no conflicting mark which was cited. The response filed by the
 Plaintiff to the examination report is quite vague and ambiguous
 in as much as the Plaintiff merely stated as under: 47. Mr. Mehta also assailed the submission of the appellant based on
 a list of third-party products which included the words ―MET‖. It was
 submitted that by the time the suit came to be instituted, ―INTAMET‖
 and ―ASTAMET‖ were not even available in the market. Insofar as
 ―VISTAMET‖ is concerned, it was pointed out that it had been
 abandoned while ―INSTAMET‖ had lapsed on account of non-renewal.
 The aforesaid cited drugs and products, according to Mr. Mehta, being
 no longer available, would clearly not constitute material which could
 be said to have a bearing on the correctness of the view taken by the
 learned Single Judge. Insofar as ―ESTIMET‖ is concerned, it was

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 56 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 submitted that although the appellant had produced a strip of the said
 drug for the first time during the course of arguments bearing a
 manufacturing date of June 2022 and expiring in May 2024, Sun
 Pharma despite extensive market queries and searches had been unable
 to identify the same as a product widely circulating in the market. 48. Both Mr. Rohatgi and Mr. Mehta then submitted that the learned
 Single Judge had correctly come to conclude that ―ISTAMET‖ is liable
 to be viewed as constituting the dominant feature with ―XR‖ and ―CP‖
 being merely generic nomenclatures widely used in the pharmaceutical
 industry. It was contended that the learned Single Judge had rightly
 come to the conclusion that the competing marks were structurally and
 phonetically similar when compared as whole without dissecting the
 suffix ―MET‖. It was submitted that notwithstanding the well-
 recognized rule of ‗anti-dissection', the dominant feature of a mark is
 one which can be legally taken into consideration while answering an
 issue relating to deceptive similarity. Learned senior counsels in this
 respect drew our attention to the following principles as enunciated by a
 Division Bench of the Court in United Biotech vs Orchid
 Chemicals27 : Secondly, the type of dissection suggested, i.e. separating
 ‗FOR' and ‗ZID' and then replacing ‗ZID' with ‗another
 word ‗TIS' before comparing the marks does not appear to
 be permissible in law. As already noticed it is not just the
 generic part ‗ZID' that is common to both marks. The
 further prefix ‗OR' too is common. In other words,
 ‗ORZID' is common to both marks. No parallel can
 therefore be drawn with the facts in Astrazeneca UK
 Limited. A person of average intelligence and imperfect
 recollection seeking to buy CEFTAZIDIME injection
 would hardly undertake any ‗dissection' exercise, much less
 in the manner suggested by learned counsel for UBPL, to
 discern the fine distinction between the marks. Also, unlike
 a consumer durable product, the variations in the size of
 font, colour scheme, trade dress of the label for a medicine
 would not make much of a difference. In the considered
 view of the Court, the IPAB has applied the correct test in
 coming to the conclusion that FORZID is deceptively
 similar to ORZID.‖ 49. Reliance was also placed on the following principles as were
 elucidated in South India Beverages: However, it is not a violation of the anti-dissection rule to
 view the component parts of conflicting composite marks as
 a preliminary step on the way to an ultimate determination
 of probable customer reaction to the conflicting composites
 as a whole. Thus, conflicting marks must be compared in
 their entireties. A mark should not be dissected or split up
 into its component parts and each part then compared with
 corresponding parts of the conflicting mark to determine the
 likelihood of confusion. It is the impression that the mark as
 a whole creates on the average reasonably prudent buyer
 and not the parts thereof, that is important. As the Supreme
 Court observed: ―The commercial impression of a
 trademark is derived from it as a whole, not from its
 elements separated and considered in detail. For this reason,

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 60 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 it should be considered in its entirety.‖ The anti-dissection
 rule is based upon a commonsense observation of customer
 behaviour: the typical shopper does not retain all of the
 individual details of a composite mark in his or her mind,
 but retains only an overall, general impression created by
 the composite as a whole. It is the overall impression
 created by the mark from the ordinary shopper's cursory
 observation in the marketplace that will or will not lead to a
 likelihood of confusion, not the impression created from a
 meticulous comparison as expressed in carefully weighed
 analysis in legal briefs. In litigation over the alleged
 similarity of marks, the owner will emphasize the
 similarities and the alleged infringer will emphasize the
 differences. The point is that the two marks should not be
 examined with a microscope to find the differences, for this
 is not the way the average purchaser views the marks. To
 the average buyer, the points of similarity are more
 important that minor points of difference. A court should
 not engage in ―technical gymnastics‖ in an attempt to find
 some minor differences between conflicting marks.
 However, where there are both similarities and differences
 in the marks, there must be weighed against one another to
 see which predominate. The rationale of the anti-dissection rule is based upon this
 assumption: ―An average purchaser does not retain all the
 details of a mark, but rather the mental impression of the
 mark creates in its totality. It has been held to be a violation
 of the anti-dissection rule to focus upon the ―prominent‖
 feature of a mark and decide likely confusion solely upon
 that feature, ignoring all other elements of the mark.
 Similarly, it is improper to find that one portion of a
 composite mark has no trademark significance, leading to a
 direct comparison between only that which remains.‖
 [Emphasis Supplied] 21. The view of the author makes it scintillatingly clear, beyond
 pale of doubt, that the principle of ‗anti dissection' does not
 impose an absolute embargo upon the consideration of the
 constituent elements of a composite mark. The said elements may
 be viewed as a preliminary step on the way to an ultimate
 determination of probable customer reaction to the conflicting
 composites as a whole. Thus, the principle of ‗anti-dissection' and
 identification of ‗dominant mark' are not antithetical to one

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 61 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 another and if viewed in a holistic perspective, the said principles
 rather compliment each other.‖ 50. Having noticed the rival submissions which were addressed, the
 first question which arises for consideration is the correctness of the
 conclusions rendered by the learned Single Judge with respect to
 deceptive similarity. As was noticed by us hereinbefore, the learned
 Judge had found that the competing marks ―ISTAMET‖ and
 ―INDAMET‖ were structurally and phonetically similar. The learned
 Judge had also found that although the registration in favour of Sun
 Pharma bids one to view the composite mark ―ISTAMET XR CP‖, the
 dominant feature of that mark is liable to be recognized as being
 ―ISTAMET‖. It was in challenge to the aforesaid conclusions that both
 Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Sibal had argued that if ―XR CP‖ was liable to be
 excluded, the suffix ―MET‖ which was publici juris must also be
 accorded similar treatment. According to learned senior counsels if the
 aforesaid process of reasoning were adopted for the purposes of
 answering the question of deceptive similarity, it would be apparent
 that there is a marked difference between the two competing marks,
 namely, ―ISTA‖ and ―INDA‖ and the grant of injunction thus being
 clearly unjustified. It was in the aforesaid context that learned senior
 counsels had referred to the decisions rendered in Schering and
 Astrazeneca. 51. We at the outset note that the issue which stands raised would
 have to be examined bearing in mind and at the forefront the stringent,
 exacting and uncompromising standards which are liable to be adopted
 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 62 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 when we test an action for infringement or passing off pertaining to
 competing marks in the pharmaceutical sector as opposed to any other
 genre of products. It would be pertinent to recollect that in Cadila
 Healthcare the Supreme Court was concerned with the asserted
 similarity between the brand names ―FALCITAB‖ and ―FALCIGO‖.
 The Trial Judge had refused interim injunction on the basis that they
 differed in appearance, formulation and price. The aforesaid order of
 the Trial Judge was affirmed by the High Court. Although the Supreme
 Court in Cadila Healthcare refused to interfere with the judgment
 impugned and had disposed of the Special Leave Petition with
 directions for expeditious conclusion of the trial itself, there were
 notable observations which came to be rendered and which are of
 significant import. 52. Indisputably, our courts have consistently held that the question
 of confusion is essentially one of first impression. It is in the aforesaid
 backdrop that courts have held that the issue of deceptive similarity has
 to be answered from the point of view of a man of average intelligence
 with imperfect recollection. The tests which were propounded in Re
 Pianotist Co application28 as far back as in 1906 have consistently
 guided courts in answering issues of deceptive similarity. In Pianotist
 those principles were explained in the following words: 53. It has also been recognized by courts that while a close scrutiny
 or comparison of the two competing marks may disclose some points of
 distinction, the question itself is liable to be answered from the point of
 view of the unwary purchaser and who is unlikely to expend sufficient
 amount of time examining the marks scrupulously or with a degree of
 exactness. Yet another precept which precedents require us to bear in
 consideration is the essential features of a trademark and in such
 situations marked or slight differences in get-up, packaging or the
 manner in which the marks are written fading into insignificance.
 Ultimately a challenge of infringement or passing-off would have to be
 answered on the anvil of a resemblance so near and unerring that it is
 likely to deceive or cause confusion. 54. We note that F. Hoffmann-La Roche was dealing with the issue
 of deceptive similarity in the context of usage of the words
 ―DROPOVIT‖ and ―PROTOVIT‖. While examining the challenge
 which stood raised, the Court pertinently observed that the question of
 likelihood of confusion is neither liable to be considered nor answered
 on a meticulous comparison of two words nor our courts liable to

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 64 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 undertake a "letter by letter and syllable by syllable" comparison. All
 of the aforesaid principles, so enunciated, are a reiteration of the
 underlying precept being of the marks being examined from the gaze of
 a man of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. In F.
 Hoffmann-La Roche the Supreme Court ultimately came to conclude
 that the two words were so dissimilar that there existed no reasonable
 probability of confusion either from a visual or phonetic point of view. 55. However, Cadila Healthcare assumes significance insofar as
 medicines and drugs are concerned in light of the following
 observations which were rendered: 56. The aforesaid principles as propounded clearly point towards a
 more exacting and stringent test being adopted when an action of
 infringement or passing-off comes to be laid in respect of drugs. As was
 pertinently observed by the Supreme Court in Cadila Healthcare, in the
 case of drugs, the tests to be adopted is that of "exacting judicial
 scrutiny". It was further held that the mere fact that the drug was being
 sold on the basis of a prescription or dispensed by pharmacists would
 also not constitute a reliable determinant which would dilute the strict
 view test as articulated by it while attempting to answer the question of
 possibility of confusion. This the Supreme Court so held bearing in
 mind the injurious or detrimental possibilities attendant to an
 inadvertent purchase, sale and consequential consumption of a drug. It
 also took into consideration the harmful effect that a usage of a drug
 may have even though the competing products may be meant for curing
 an identical ailment. Not stopping at this, the Court also found that
 notwithstanding the pharmaceutical market being regulated by
 prescriptions and the dispensation of products being overseen and

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 67 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 supervised by trained physicians, those factors would not allay the fears
 and apprehensions attendant to an incorrect or inappropriate drug being
 accidentally dispensed. This is evident from the following observations
 appearing in Paras 27 and 28 of the report: 57. More significantly, the Supreme Court proceeded to hold and
 spoke of a lesser degree of proof being applicable in the case of
 medicinal products while answering the question of confusing
 similarity and the same being warranted in order to subserve large
 public interest. These observations are found in para 32 of the report,
 which is extracted hereinbelow: 58. Equally instructive are the following principles which came to be
 identified by our Court in Novartis AG: Actual deception is not required in an action of passing
 off. Century Traders v. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. , AIR 1978 Del
 250 : 1 Supp PTC 720 (Del) (DB). Therefore there is no chance of
 confusion and deception. 59. As is evident from the aforesaid extracts, our Court found that a
 difference in ingredients or salts which make up competing
 pharmaceutical products, would not be aspects which could be said to
 be germane when it come to the question of likelihood of confusion. It
 also negated the mode and method of ingestion as well as the form of
 the competing products. This is evident from para 22 of the report and
 where the Court held that the fact that the competing products were
 dispensed either in the form of a tablet or an oral suspension would be
 wholly irrelevant. FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 71 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 60. We find that the aspect of heightened scrutiny was also
 emphasized by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in
 Macleods Pharmaceuticals. While enunciating the first principles
 which must be borne in mind, the Bombay High Court in paras 21 and
 22 held as follows: 22. The Delhi High Court in Win-Medicare Pvt. Ltd. (supra) after
 considering the relevant decisions on the question of
 misrepresentation or deception between two trade marks held
 that following Rules of Comparison can be culled out from
 various pronouncements of the Courts from time to time: 23. The Supreme Court in the decision between Milment Oftho
 Industries (supra) after reviewing the law on the subject held as
 follows: While anti-dissection is the primary rule, courts are entitled to
 acknowledge and identify the dominant elements of a mark if
 circumstances so warrant. Undoubtedly, the word ―MET‖ was an
 integral part of both competing marks. It was intended to convey the
 existence of an essential ingredient or salt of the two products. It would
 therefore be wholly incorrect to remove the words ―MET‖ while
 answering the question which stood posited. The approach as advocated
 by the appellant would essentially require us to pulverise and granulate
 the two competing marks. That cannot possibly be the approach liable
 to be adopted while examining the aspect of deceptive similarity. 66. More importantly, a purchaser of average intelligence cannot be
 expected to break down tradenames in the manner as suggested or
 undertake such an exercise at the time of the transaction. A consumer
 would have viewed the two competing marks as INDAMET and
 ISTAMET while ignoring the words XR and CP since those
 abbreviations are well known to be representative of additional
 attributes of a formulation which normally has no correlation to the
 actual ingredients of the two products. The learned Judge thus in our

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 77 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 considered opinion correctly analysed and answered the issue of
 deceptive similarity. 67. In Schering the Court was called upon the examine a challenge
 raised by the appellant who was marketing drugs under the trade name
 TEMODAL/TEMODAR as opposed to that of the respondent which
 was TEMOKEM. The principal question which appears to have arisen
 was whether the appellant could claim an exclusive right to the use of a
 generic abbreviation concerned with ―TEMOZOLOMIDE‖. Both the
 parties before the Court were admittedly manufacturing a product
 containing the compound ―TEMOZOLOMIDE‖. The decision is thus
 liable to be appreciated in the aforesaid context. Similar was the
 position which obtained in AstraZeneca. It becomes pertinent to note in
 this context that Sun Pharma was not claiming an exclusive right to the
 use of the abbreviation ―MET‖. The case of Sun Pharma was that the
 dominant features of the two competing marks were liable to be viewed
 as a whole for the purpose of answering the question of deceptive
 similarity. The decisions cited by the appellants are thus clearly
 distinguishable. 68. Another ground which was urged in the appeal was of the
 manner in which the two competing drugs were liable to be
 administered. The appellants had contended that ―INDAMET‖ could be
 ingested only with aid of a DPI or a Rotahaler. It was on the aforesaid
 basis that it was vehemently urged that it would only be the
 ―INDAMET‖ capsule which could have been inserted in the DPI and

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 78 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 thus consumed. The appellants in this respect had also sought to draw
 strength from the disclaimer as appearing on the ―INDAMET‖ strip and
 insofar as it declared and warned consumers from the same being taken
 orally. This, according to learned senior counsels, is an aspect which
 has been incorrectly appreciated by the learned Single Judge. 69. We, however, find that the aforesaid contention clearly does not
 merit acceptance bearing in mind the undisputed fact which emerged in
 the course of hearing, namely, of the DPI or Rotahaler not being an
 integral part of the sale transaction and being only a one-time purchase.
 One cannot, therefore, discount the possibility of ―INDAMET‖ being
 independently purchased by a patient who already possessed a DPI or a
 Rotahaler. The sale of ―INDAMET‖ was not shown to be combined
 with the purchase of a DPI or a Rotahaler in every instance. It would,
 therefore, be incorrect to answer the question of likelihood of confusion
 based on the mere possibility of the DPI being purchased
 simultaneously and alongwith a replenishment dose of ―INDAMET‖.
 This we so hold on facts in addition to the consistent position struck by
 precedents which have unequivocally held that the manner of ingestion,
 be it in the form of a tablet or a liquid suspension or for that matter the
 way it is liable to be administered, namely, orally or as an injectable,
 would be factors wholly immaterial for the purposes of considering the
 question of deceptive similarity and likelihood of confusion. 70. The appellants had also strenuously urged that Sun Pharma had
 failed to produce any evidence which may have established that

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 79 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 ―INDAMET‖ would have an adverse effect if taken or consumed by a
 patient suffering from diabetes. It was urged that no scientific literature
 or peer studies had been placed on the record and which may have
 warranted an injunction being granted. We note that the learned Single
 Judge had specifically noticed this contention, namely, of an accidental
 ingestion not resulting in harm. The Court, however, took into
 consideration the admitted fact that ―ISTAMET‖ was meant solely to
 treat diabetes while undisputedly, ―INDAMET‖ was confined to the
 treatment of asthma. 71. In our considered opinion, in light of the aforenoted undisputed
 facts it was not incumbent upon the plaintiff to establish or prove that
 the taking of ―INDAMET‖ would have an adverse effect on a diabetes
 patient. This issue has been rightly answered by the learned Single
 Judge who has borne in consideration the adverse consequences of a
 diabetic missing out on prescribed dosages of a medication meant to
 control and regulate blood sugar levels. The learned Single Judge took
 note of situations and contingencies where a failure to regularly take
 ―ISTAMET‖ may either lead to a dramatic fall or a spike in a person's
 blood sugar levels. Similar would be the position if an asthmatic were
 to miss out on taking ―INDAMET‖ and attempted to address the onset
 of a severe asthmatic attack by taking ―ISTAMET‖. ―ISTAMET‖,
 which is a specialised drug meant solely to treat and control diabetes
 would neither ameliorate the patient's condition nor arrest the attack
 and which itself may lead to fatal consequences. A diabetic could face
 an identical situation when experiencing hypoglycaemia. The absence

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 80 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 of peer studies and scientific literature was thus wholly immaterial for
 the purposes of considering the grant of injunctive relief. 72. We ultimately bear in mind the indubitable fact that ISTAMET
 and INDAMET are meant to attend to chronic ailments. It would
 therefore be perilous to ignore the test of heightened scrutiny as
 propounded in Cadilla Healthcare while considering the issue of
 deceptive similarity. We also bear in mind the undisputed fact that
 ―ISTAMET‖ had been available in the market right from 2011 whereas
 the appellant chose to launch its product only on 16 June 2022 and that
 too after an opposition to its mark had come to be filed by the
 respondent on 27 May 2022. The question of balance of convenience
 was thus rightly answered by the learned Single Judge while passing
 the impugned order. 73. That leaves us to deal with two additional questions which were
 raised at the behest of the appellant and were based on prosecution
 estoppel and the asserted availability of drugs with similar sounding
 prefixes and suffixes. 74. Insofar as the issue of prosecution estoppel is concerned, we find
 that the stand taken by the plaintiff by way of the amendment
 application which was moved in the pending appeal was that the
 competing marks were in fact deceptively similar. Once that
 amendment application came to be allowed, it would be deemed to be
 the consistent stand struck by the plaintiff from the inception of the suit
 itself. In any view of the matter, that appeal itself has come to be

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 81 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 ultimately allowed with the learned Judge taking note of the registration
 held by Sun Pharma in respect of ―ISTAMET XR CP‖ and the word
 ―ISTAMET‖ forming part thereof. It was in the aforesaid backdrop that
 the appeal was allowed and the application directed to be advertised
 before acceptance. The stand taken by Merck thus clearly pales into
 insignificance. 75. The argument based on third party trademarks including the
 suffix ―MET‖ would have to meet a similar fate bearing in mind our
 findings rendered hereinabove and upon having found that MET could
 not have been removed from consideration while examining the
 question of deceptive similarity. We have for reasons set out in the
 preceding parts of this decision already held that the learned Judge was
 justified in identifying the dominant feature of the two competing
 marks to be INDAMET and ISTAMET. Merely because ―XR‖ and
 ―CP‖ were removed from consideration in the course of identification
 of the prominent features of the two marks would not warrant the marks
 themselves being reconstructed in the manner as suggested by the
 appellant. This, in any case, since this was not a matter where Sun
 Pharma was claiming an exclusive right to use the suffix ‗MET'. 76. Accordingly, and for all the aforesaid reasons, the appeal fails
 and shall stand dismissed. We uphold the injunction granted by the
 learned Single Judge. The interim order dated 26 July 2023 operating
 on this appeal shall in consequence stand vacated. FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 82 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08 77. Though needless to state, we observe that our findings and
 conclusions as appearing in the body of this decision are based solely
 on a prima facie evaluation of the facts presented before us and for
 adjudging whether the learned Judge was justified in granting the
 interim injunction. They shall consequently have no impact on the
 rights and contentions of parties on merits. YASHWANT VARMA, J. DHARMESH SHARMA, J. APRIL 16, 2024/kk

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 146/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 83 of 83 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:16.04.2024 17:55:08