SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My experience identifying multiple opportunities for errors and scams in the covid vaccination process
DATE: 2021-04-05
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/mkc2uu/my_experience_identifying_multiple_opportunities/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR: cowin app doesn't verify information uploaded before allowing vaccination, defeating the stated purpose of guaranteeing no one jumps the queue and rendering the app as hindrance to vaccination and useful only as a massive surveillance tool. Corporate vaccination drive organized at one vaccination centre appears to allow people way younger than 45 to get vaccinated.

\-----

I am 46 years old. I went for vaccination at a upscale private establishment in an upper middleclass neighbourhood in a large metro on April 2. Had not registered or downloaded cowin app, but had booked an online appointment with the private establishment. My information along with pan card as ID and age proof was taken at 3 stages - at the reception on a desktop (sounded like this was for their local records and billing only - they charged me 150 rs for the vaccine and 100 rs as "service charges"), in the first waiting area (open, naturally ventillated space behind reception; data was collected on phone on the vaccinator's version of cowin app and I was asked to remove the mask for a pic), and in the waiting area in the vaccination room (on a desktop) right before vaccination. At this third location, I was told that my information had not yet updated on the cowin database, but I could go ahead and get vaccinated. The actual vaccination was by far the quickest part of the whole process. They wanted me to stick around for both verification of cowin app as well as for post injection monitoring. I didn't want to wait in the crowded room, so was allowed to wait on the terrace.

In about 10 minutes, I got a message from cowin acknowledging vaccination and instructions to download the certificate by installing cowin app (sneaky bastards, but that is the least of the problems here). Problem: the acknowledgement was on my father's name - probably copied erroniously at the second verification stage because the stupid patriarchal system insists on writing my father's full name below my full name on the pan card. Inference: cowin system doesn't cross check ID numbers with names before approving vaccinations and issuing certificates. Clearly, this is a loophole that can be exploited by unscrupulous players to vaccinate people that are not yet eligible. This completely defeats the stated purpose of cowin system, which is to ensure that only the eligible individuals get vaccinated, and don't jump the queue. All that is left is a massive surveillance program, which together with other massive data collections, spells doom for privacy.

I rushed down to the vaccination room to sort this issue out, a little woirried since my father hasn't yet got vaccinated. By the time I got there, the gentleman taking the information at the computer (verification location no. 3) had already noticed the error by comparing my pan card with the cowin records which were available by then. He created a new entry for me, (unfortunately) asked me to remove my mask for a pic in the crowded, air conditioned room, and had me look at all details and verify them 3 times. Somehow he couldn't register me with my mobile number, so I had to give someone else's. In 5 minutes, I got a puzzled message from that person asking me why they got notification of my getting vacciated. I was informed that upto 4 people can register with the same mobile number, but there was no explanation forthcoming for why my number couldn't even be used for 2. I was also informed that they had processed the delete request from their end for the erroneous record on my father's name, but I have not checked yet (no cowin app on phone yet).

In the middle of this circus, I witnessed something fishy happening. While I was waiting in the vacination room the first time to get called to verify my records, a woman, about 25, walked in, said she was there for her company's vaccination drive (I think I heard Aditya Birla, but I'm not absolutely certain of this part). Didn't have a payment receipt (since her company was paying) and her information hadn't been collected, so the guy at the computer had her take her mask off for a pic and finished other verification formalities. I was staring in surprise when her mask was off, since there's no way she was over 45 ( Caveat: I could have seriously mistaken an over 45 years old for a 25 years old in the brightly lit room, but I'd like to believe that the possibility of that happening is negligible). When it was my turn, I enquired with the guy taking my information about the company vaccination drives (made up some excuse about how overhearing the conversation made me think I should suggest the same to my firm). I was told that they had contracts with industrial houses to conduct their vaccination drives "in order to provide their employees with a better vaccination experience". Evidence to the contrary that I'd seen with my own eyes notwithstanding, he repeatedly claimed that the contracts allow for vaccinating only the people meeting the age criteria.

I obviously don't have proof for this conversation, but will add anecdotally that the person (over 65 years old) who recommended this place to me last week told me about seeing "30 year olds" getting vaccinated, and told me that I didn't need to wait for a week to become eligible. I've heard similar anecdotes from one other centre in my city and another in Chennai. I had assumed that these were surplus vaccines in the vials being given to walk in subjects without regard to age restrictions at the end of the day/before vials had to be changed (which is a good thing so as not to waste precious vaccines), but at least in the establishement I went to the exception to age restrictions seems to be granted based on corporate contracts, within the first 30 minutes of start of vaccination for the day when there was a roomful of people waiting to get their vaccine (and more at the reception/first waiting area, as I found out on my way out). I enquired at the reception if people younger than 45 can show up around the end of the day and get vaccinated. Was told that is not possible. This is clearly a scam to advance rich, paying clientale ahead of the line.

Has anyone else had this or similar experience?