SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I need help- my mother is unstable emotionally and mentally- How do I support her?
DATE: 2024-05-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1cxb0rc/i_need_help_my_mother_is_unstable_emotionally_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm F18 going to college. My mother is in her early fifties and she found out my father was cheating on her this year. Her unstable behaviour was there before as well. 
She says a lot of vulgar sexual things when my sister and I do something abnormal (I used to space out when I used to get out of the bath and she found me staring at a wall one day thinking and she pointed out the vulgarity of it by actions and told everyone about it) and other things
She abuses at me constantly and she used to hit me by grabbing my hair, throwing me around and throwing different objects at me. She didn't do that to my elder sister who was the golden thin child. Even though she stopped when I reached 11th grade it still haunts me a lot. I know by certain memories that my mother used to have these crying fits where she used to cry and cry and cry. My father didn't know how to handle it and used to hit her to make her stop. I learnt very early on that if I cried she would hit me as well. This led me to develop panic attacks where I would cry continuously once or twice a year and I was dangerously numb the rest of the time. That's when I had control of myself. My mother criticized my weight, my hair, my every single thing and when I used to say anything she would physically shut me by grabbing my mouth and scream until I would start crying. I was really afraid of her. This continued until COVID where we were stuck in the same small house and she would literally corner me to hit me or take any time to kick my online classes shut with her feet. I got a complete anxiety attack where I couldn't breathe properly and she left the house in anger. My father tried slapping me to make it stop but it genuinely did not stop and my sister would just stand there and call it fake. My sister is another case altogether. Anyways it got better when my sister went for college and my father went to another state. My mother just went into her work. We would get into fights where she would throw stuff at me but never hit me. She got more verbally abusive which was much better than her hitting me. The thing is while she got more verbally brash my father got into a transactional/ sex relationship with a 25 year old in the other state. She had some suspicions and that would make her even more depressed as time went on. She was more and more into her work and spending time with herself doing nothing which she'd never done before. I overheard a fight of theirs (really small house) where they shouted at each other for not having a sex life. Anyways I'm ending 12th grade and doing my boards and I find texts of my dad to the 25 year old. I told it to my sister who already had seen him like the same girl's instagram. My sister couldn't handle knowing and told it to my mother without any tact or sensitivity. She showed my mother that girl's pictures and vented to her in a way that my mother couldn't handle her own emotions how could she handle my sister's emotions. My mother became extremely angry with my dad which is completely justified BUT she then drank Harpic to kill herself (she later told all of us that it was to show him that all of this is his fault not because she actually wanted to end her life). My father broke up with the girl and my mother slowly disregarded the fact that she has depression. She chose my father because she loved him and their long number of years didn't matter in front of the one year he spent with the girl. We went for a small vacation and she slowly started having sex with him. I didn't want to know this but again EXTREMELY SMALL HOUSE. My mother would continuously blame herself for not participating in their sex life when she went through menopause and my father slowly used that as an excuse for his cheating. But the thing is she slowly became fixated with the 25 year old and would have arguments with my father where she would mention the vulgar stuff as in the fact that he didn't touch her stuff, her lips must not s better than the girl's and A LOT MORE STUFF. My father realistically can't quit his job because both my sister and I have chosen private colleges and my mother's lifestyle prefers his current salary. My mother decided to move into the same house as where he had rendezvous with the girl. When yesterday 10 days before she's supposed to shift into the house she broke down after she saw some credit card bills where my father and that girl spent their vacations and weekends in. She howled and threw things. My father tried hitting her but I stepped in. I screamed at him to stop and he hit me as well but he stopped hitting my mom at least. She continued to howl and cry and broke a lot of the glass in the house. I tried to help her stand up for herself but she hit me as well. At that point I stopped looked around and went inside where I had my own mini anxiety attack. My cousin brother was there for me and he helped me calm down through a phone call but mother continued screaming. She then went to the balcony and threatened to kill herself. When my father went to the other balcony to also kill himself she just lay down on the cold hard floor. My father went to her apologizing continuously and my mother finally got up and they decided to never mention the whole thing again. The thing is this ended at 2 am and I was awake the whole time really scared and I slept at 3. I consequently woke up at around 10 am. They had decided by their own volition to book a doctor's appointment at 11 for which we had to leave at 10:30. I tried getting ready fast but it just wasn't happening and my mother had a whole another screaming attack and she refused to go anywhere. She then shouted at my father that she wanted to divorce him and I was shouted at by both of them for not getting ready fast enough. My mother just slept, wrote suicidal messages on WhatsApp and slept. Since the start of the whole thing she refuses to go to the psychiatrist. I've tried and I've tried to tell her she can make any decisions she wants and I'll support her she just has to go to the psychiatrist first but Noooooo. It feels like I'm parenting both of them and if I don't calm my mother down and if I don't calm my father down they won't fix themselves. They've said on multiple occasions that I was the reason their marriage is like this because my mother had to stay back with me until I finished 12th grade. I didn't want to change my entire environment so close to Boards. My mother now takes all the credit for my studying and the sacrifices she made for my scores. But you know the funny thing is I studied day and night for those marks. Even during this entire thing. My mother got to know about the chats three days before my main board subjects and this happened during my exam time. I had to lock myself in my bathroom to study and even then I would continue to cry. My mother was diagnosed with Depression but I think it's more than that and I want to help her even if I feel like this towards her because well she's my mother.