SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: This is how Amazon tried to cheat me but was caught red handed.
DATE: 2016-04-14
SCORE: 95
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/4er48u/this_is_how_amazon_tried_to_cheat_me_but_was/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, this is Andrews Dean. I'm a Software Engineer by profession. Following is my bitter shopping experience with Amazon, the largest e-commerce company which also claims to be very customer centric with slogans like "Apni Dukaan".

Last year, I lost my laptop bag and everything inside it in a burglary incident which left me almost being a cave-man. Losing all my data present in portable hard drive and the laptop was really tough for me.Then I decided not to give up to destiny and buy myself a much elegant (or expensive, lol) laptop this time. For few days, I researched and settle on Apple Macbook Pro laptop. I found the Amazon was offering a great deal on the laptop, so without wasting any time I ordered it from their India ecommerce website amazon.in. The laptop order was confirmed and they promised to deliver it to me within next 4-5 days.
As days were passing, I was quite excited to get my hands on a Macbook, as it would be my first interaction with an Apple notebook and I was migrating from Windows to Mac.
At last, the day arrived and I got the sweet "out for delivery" notification. Within few hours after getting the notification, I got a call from the delivery personnel informing me that he is waiting outside my premises.
When the delivery personnel handed the box to me and took out his pen to have me sign on the acknowledgment receipt, I noticed that the box was kind of tampered with the seal tape pulling out from corners. This led to suspicion and I asked him to open the box himself without acknowledging the receipt, to which he agreed reluctantly.
When the box was opened, we all were stunned! In place of the laptop, a 3 KG detergent packet was lying inside the box! In the first place, I thought that the consignment belonged to someone who might have ordered the detergent packet (I know, who would order a 3 KG Surf online?..) but when I checked the delivery address, it was sure addressed to me. All this really blew my mind and I couldn't just accept the fact that I was cheated by Amazon. Even the product receipt was missing too from the box.
Clearly, in order to cheat me, "someone" put the 3 kg detergent packet to cover up the weight so I could not figure out that there was no laptop inside the box. So far I had read such blunders in news/social media but this time, I was the victim. I mean seriously, these guys attempted to deliver a 3 kg washing powder in place of Rs 1+ Lac worth laptop!
The delivery boy then and there informed his superiors and I also informed Amazon immediately about the blunder they made. They promised to look into the issue and also promised to provide me a replacement of the actual product.
2 days passed by and yet no action was taken by Amazon in this regard. Every time I had to call their customer care to get an update and every time the tried to cool me down by reciting their infamous canned responses.
After 4 days, I got an email from Amazon stating that they could not provide me the replacement as they did not have the product available in the same price. By now the cost of the laptop on Amazon was increased to whopping Rs.12,000+. I asked Amazon to at least provide me the coupons of the price difference so I could order it again but with the purchase price which was offered to me initially. But these guys told me that it would not be possible and hanged up the call. I made several attempts to have them send me the replacement but they just did not listen. After few days, the tried to escape by merely providing me the refund amount and that too without my consent, as I demanded the replacement, not the refund.
I feel like as if I caught a thief red-handed who was trying to steal in my house, and now he wants to return my belongings and merely escape without having to face the punishment.
This was a sheer breach of trust that Amazon has made. They did not even bother to update me regarding the investigations made in this regard. I have started to feel that this was all a setup; the deal on their site was just to lure people so they can serve their own interests.
Things could have been worse for me had I accepted the delivery without checking the content. In such case, they wouldn't even have agreed for the refund and would blame me for replacing the actual product.
So I am urging you all, if you buy anything from these e-commerce websites, never provide the acknowledgment of receipt before checking what's actually inside the box. Many times, the delivery personnel will refuse to open until you sign on the receipt, but you rather take your stand and don't let him deliver without checking the contents.
I am not going to spare Amazon for the blunder they have made and will seek legal remedies to bring them to justice.

http://m.imgur.com/AhgH0X6

- Andrews R. Dean