: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622370
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622372
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622374

Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622362
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622380
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622384
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622376
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622378
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622385
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622381
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622382
Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. CIC/CCAPT/C/2023/622383 Page 8 of 20 Information sought: The CPIO furnished a point-wise reply to the complainant on 08-04-2024
stating as under: Being dissatisfied, the complainant failed to file a First Appeal. The FAA order is
not on record. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, complainant approached the Commission
with the instant Complaints. Relevant Facts emerged during Hearing: It is, therefore, requested that hearing of these cases may kindly be adjourned
or may be decided on the basis of materials available on records". Cases have been listed together as stated in the opening statement of this
order. The Complainant may note that the timing indicated in the cause list is
primarily for the purpose of informing the parties as also the NIC studio for
booking the same. Hearings are done everyday till all cases are heard. The
break in hearing can be taken with mutual convenience. The Complainant is
always welcome to witness disposal of cases after duly hearing the parties.
Instead of calling a senior citizen like him frequently for the bunch of cases
filed by him as also with a view not to disrupt the functioning of Respondent
CPIO, the cases are heard together for convenience of both the parties
involved. Further, the pendency in the Commission results in listing a case
nearly after more than a year, so, adjournment is not a practice in the
Commission. Hence, his apprehension is not correct. However, since he has
opted for a decision by the Commission based on materials available on
record, all his complaint cases as listed today are being decided on merits. The Respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that the
Complainant has filed complaint u/s 18 of the RTI Act, 2005 in respect of non-
receipt of any reply from the erstwhile CPIO Income Tax Officer, ward- 2(5)
Ramgarh & CPIO-Income Tax Officer, ward 2(3) Ramgarh. The CPIO-ITO ward
2(5), Ramgarh & CPIO-Income Tax Officer, ward- 2(3) Ramgarh has been
merged and form single CPIO ward 2(3), Ramgarh from 2020. In view of the re-structuring of the Respondent organization in 2020 and
inaccessibility of the online RTI portal, the aforesaid RTI applications filed by
the Complainant through online portal could not be located. However, on
receipt of notice from the Commission efforts were made to locate the data so
as to give an updated point-wise reply which has been provided to the
Complainant vide online reply dated 08-04-2024 intimating the factual position
as per the documents available in their record. Upon being queried by the Page 10 of 20 Commission, the Respondent submitted that no such information is available
in their records. The Respondent further submitted that information sought in the above RTI
applications are not held by them, therefore, they are not able to provide the
same to the Complainant. Further, a copy of the said reply was also sent to the Complainant through
speed post. They further prayed the Commission that delay caused in giving
reply being unintentional be condoned in the interest of justice. They informed that the complainant had filed numerous RTI applications which
creates undue pressure to CPIOs, and lot of time was being wasted for
preparing the reply of the RTI applications which has no public interest and
repeated application with minor changes. They stated that no first appeals
were filed by the complainant against any case. Further, the respondent had
filed written submission dated 18.04.2024 and 26.04.2024 and relevant para is
being reproduced as under: It is also to bring to the kind information of Hon'ble sir that the said RTI has
already been replied by our many offices. The applicant has been provided with
the information he had sought vide the impugned RTI application from ITO,
Ward-2(3), Ramgarh. It is humbly submitted that filing of numerous RTI
applications seeking reply of the same nature of information by the
complainant has been done to pressurize the public authority into acceding to
his request for similar nature of information. The Hon'ble CIC in his order dated
28.12.2022 has also observed the attitude of the complainant. However, every
CPIO has replied his all RTI applications after due application of mind and
within the meaning of Section of RTI Act without any mala-fide intention." Decision

The Commission, after adverting the facts and circumstances of the case,
hearing the Respondent and perusal of the records, notes that the Respondent
has provided reply to the Complainant vide letters all dated 08-04-2024. The
Commission further observes that there is a substantial delay in providing
replies to the Complainant on the above-mentioned RTI applications. In this
regard, the Respondent, during the hearing, informed that due to some Page 12 of 20 technical reasons owing to merging of two concerned Wards and inaccessibility
of the online RTI portal, the above-mentioned RTI applications were not
attended within the mandated period. The Respondent apologized for the
same and assured that such lapses would not recur in future. The Commission further observes that the Complainant has not filed any first
appeal or Second Appeal in the above-mentioned cases as also in all cases
adjudicated by this bench so far, and reasons for the same could not be
ascertained as he was not present before the Commission despite notice. In a
complaint case, the Commission cannot give any relief for information under Section 18 of the RTI Act, the only restricted role lies is to adjudicate whether
the information has been malafidely denied by the CPIO or undue hindrance
has been caused by the Respondent. It is noteworthy that the Complainant
was not present before the Commission to controvert the averments made by
the Respondents and further agitate the matter. The Commission is not inclined to accept the prayer of the Complainant to
impose penalty as well as for recommendation of disciplinary proceedings
against the concerned CPIOs in the absence of any mala fide on part of the
Respondent. The conduct of the Complainant shows his intention to pressurize
the CPIO with the fear of penal action than actual delivery of information to
him. Be that as it may, the Commission further observes from perusal of records
that more than 1600 cases of the same Complainant against same/different
Public Authority have already been heard and disposed of by different benches
of the Commission. In this regard, it is also worth noting that a total number of
100 complaints cases including the present set of cases listed for today's
hearing and the same have been heard together simultaneously. The
Complainant has filed numerous RTI Applications for the same nature of
information sought by merely expanding the time span of information sought
in each of his RTI Applications apparently to pressurize the Public Authority
rather than actual interest in getting the information denied to him, if any. This
intention of the Complainant militates against the spirit of the RTI Act whose
primary objective is providing information to the citizens. It appears that the
Complainant has grossly misconceived the idea of exercising his Right to
Information as being absolute and unconditional. Here, the Commission would also like to recall its earlier observations made in
bunch matter of the same Complainant in case File Nos.
CIC/CCAPT/C/2021/630320 and Others decided on 21.02.2024; and
CIC/CCAPT/C/2022/659908 and Others decided on 23.02.2024 wherein it was
held as under - Emphasis supplied

Furthermore, the High Court of Delhi in the decision of Col. Rajendra
Singh v. Central Information Commission and Anr. WP (C ) 5469 of 2008
dated 20.03.2009 had held as under: Emphasis supplied

It is also pertinent to note that the Hon'ble High Court of Madras in the
case of Public Information Officer, Registrar (Administration) Vs B
Bharathi [WP No. 26781/2013 dated 17.09.2014] has also given its
opinion about such vexatious and repetitive litigation crippling the public
authorities and held as follows: Emphasis supplied

The Hon'ble Delhi High Court while deciding the case of Shail Sahni vs.
Sanjeev Kumar & Ors. [W.P. (C ) 845/2014] has also made similar
observations: Emphasis supplied

In the other landmark judgement in the case of Central Board of
Secondary Education & Anr. Vs. Aditya Bandopadhyay & Ors. , the Apex
Court held as follows: Emphasis supplied

 xxx

In view of this, the Commission finds it pivotal to highlight a recent
decision of this bench, wherein aspect of "misuse of the right to
information Act by the Appellant" has been explained in a manner. In this
regard , ratio laid down in the matter of Nandkishor Gupta v. CPIO,
Northwestern Railway, Head Quarter Office, Malviya Nagar, Jaipur -
302017. The relevant portion of the said judgment is as under: The Complainant has not been judicious in the use of RTI Act and
 has been using it as a tool to harass the Public Authority. The
 Complainant is therefore cautioned to exercise his right to
 information in an informed and judicious manner."
Notwithstanding the above, the Commission admonishes the conduct of
the Complainant as he is not abiding by the repetitive advice of the
Commission and filing repetitive similar RTI Applications which is against
the spirit of RTI Act and clogging the valuable time and resources of the
Public Authorities. In this regard, the Commission invites attention of the
parties towards a judgement of the Hon'ble High Court of Kolkata in a Page 18 of 20 case titled Biplab Kumar Chowdhury v. The State of West Bengal & Ors.
 WPA 3116 of 2022 wherein it was held as under - In view of the above-said observations and the replies having been given and
apology tendered for delay, the Commission finds no mala fide on part of the
CPIOs in replying to the RTI applications. Further, the Commission again
advises the Complainant to make judicious and sensible use of his Right to
Information Act in future. With these observations, the instant Complaints are disposed of accordingly. Vinod Kumar Tiwari (विनोद कुमार वििारी)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयुक्त)
Authenticated true copy
(अनिप्रमानणत सत्यानित प्रनत)

(S. Anantharaman)
Dy. Registrar
011- 26181927
Date Page 19 of 20 Page 20 of 20 Recomendation(s) to PA under section 25(5) of the RTI Act, 2005:-