SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The mobile sim recharges are increasing day by day and the companies are slowly pushing prices higher making it hard for a middle class family to afford. What is the solution for this?
DATE: 2021-09-27
SCORE: 1652
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/pwdfy9/the_mobile_sim_recharges_are_increasing_day_by/

--- POST TEXT ---

Since my family uses wifi most of the time there isn't any need for unlimited mobile data for me and I rarely make any calls. When airtel was offering the plan of 49rs even that recharge would go to waste as there would be more than 80% of it left by the end of the month. But I had to recharge that once a month in order for the sim to stay active.

But now airtel has increased that plan to 79rs and now more than 90% of this just goes to waste since calling isn't necessary for me. The real bad thing is they have also decreased the time of the sim being deactivated after not recharging for a while. **Just after a week of the monthly expiry airtel cuts down the incoming too.** These sim companies are feeding the hell off of people. This is just stressing people to buy useless plans even though they don't use data or aren't in need of unlimited calls. I thought to switch to vodafone but even they have the same plans. I live in Bangalore. I don't want to just keep feeding these companies just to make 2 calls a month and to keep my number alive. Is there a way I can decrease the amount of recharge in any way? Is there any other company that I could switch to? What would the best thing to do in this case?

&amp;#x200B;

Edit: A very few of you people have misunderstood this post on a whole another level. So I'd like to make it clear for those so they understand properly.

1. First of all, the pack I'm mentioning is not unlimited but talk time. And I don't need unlimited data since I use airtel broadband. The whole thing is about there being a monthly expiry for talk time and airtel cutting down incoming too quick. That is why I bolded that sentence when I first made the post too. So stop saying that internet charges in our country are the cheapest. It's about cutting down the customer costs that are being wasted, not asking to provide cheaper service. What is the point of a company existing to provide service that isn't being used by the customer.
2. Yes I already knew that the other network companies are struggling since jio came around. But if these companies focus more on extracting money from customers (for eg. making it vital to recharge with 79 or more every single month and then cutting down incoming just a week after the expiry.) it would just make people cut down costs on other services of the same company like broadband and TV or switch to jio's services. There have also been many cases where VI is charging customers for random services they didn't even opt for. This is literally scam. Which would again lead to people to switch to JIO. So the competition should be in providing a better service than the other and not in how much money they can extract from people. 
3. The whole idea of this post was to point out that, making it compulsory for customers to join the plans that they don't use and also trying to increase it and charge it again and again as quickly as possible would only harm the company. 

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;