संजय गग, या यकसद य वारा/ Per Sanjay Garg, Judicial Member: 2. The assessee in this appeal has taken the following grounds of
appeal: 3. Ground No.1 - The assessee vide Ground no.1 has agitated the
action of the lower authorities in disallowing and adding back the long-
term capital loss suffered by the assessee in trading of shares. 4. The Assessing Officer during the assessment proceedings noted
that the assessee had booked loss of Rs.4.02 crores in trading of shares.
He noted that the assessee had traded in following scrips: The Assessing Officer noted that the facts of this case were part of larger
scheme, whereby, the price of shares of the certain penny stock
companies were rigged and there were bogus long-term capital loss were
provided to certain parties acted as exit provider and booked
corresponding losses which were set off against other business income of
companies/persons. The Assessing Officer noted that some peculiar
facts of these penny stock companies were that i) all of such companies
were listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE); ii) do not have any
business, fixed assets, income and worth; iii) and in cases of quite a few
scrips, trading has been suspended by BSE as a result of surveillance
measure detecting manipulative price movement. The Assessing Officer
further noted that the trading in shares of First Financial Services Ltd.
and Rutron International Ltd. are two of those scrips where trading has 2 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

been suspended by BSE as a result of surveillance measure detecting
manipulative price movement. The Assessing Officer further noted that
investigation was carried out by the Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata
which proved that a scheme was hatched by various players whereby
accommodation entry of bogus long-term capital gain/short-term capital
loss was booked. These accommodation entries were taken by various
beneficiaries. The Assessing Officer having discussed the modus
operandi of booking of long-term capital gain/short-term capital loss by
way of price rigging of shares of these penny stock companies, further
discussed about the report of the Special Investigation Team of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court on black money, wherein, the modus operandi of
investigation on black money has been discussed. The Assessing Officer
thereafter switched to the facts of the present case and observed that the
assessee in this case was not a regular investor/trader of shares. He had
not claimed such huge profit/loss in shares in past. It was unusual on
his part to claim such a huge loss in trading of the scrip as mentioned
above. The Assessing Officer accordingly show-caused the assessee as to
why the aforesaid loss booked by the assessee be not treated as bogus
loss. However, the assessee replied that the loss booked by the assessee
was genuine and that the same cannot be disallowed on mere suspicion.
That the transactions carried out by the assessee were duly supported
by documentary evidence and were conducted on the recognized stock
exchange. The Assessing Officer however did not accept the aforesaid
explanation of the assessee and further referred to the investigation wing
report of the income tax department and observed that income tax
department had searched/surveyed 32 share broking entities and more
than 20 entry operators and unearthed and identified some 84 odd
companies which were being used for bogus accommodation entry of
gain/loss. That the aforesaid mentioned five companies in which the 3 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

assessee had traded were also identified as penny stock companies from
their financials, trading patterns, statement of share brokers, statement
of entry operators, statement of promoters of the companies and the post
search/survey enquiries. That they all have very common financial and
trading patterns. That the market price of shares of these companies
firstly rise to very high level and then fall within a short span of time
without any genuine reason. The Assessing Officer further observed that
the transaction pattern relating to shares of these companies would
show that the trading in these shares were made only with the parties to
whom accommodation entries were given to them to give benefit of long-
term capital gain. Referring to the transactions in the shares of Rutron
International Ltd., the Assessing Officer observed that the trading
volume of shares during the period when the assessee purchased shares
was thin and he further noted that the price of shares of this company
was on an average of Rs.26/- from April 2013 to October/November
2013. Suddenly the prices fell down to 7.20 on 31.03.2014. That the
share brokers, operators and exit providers have stated under oath and
identified Comfort Fincap Ltd. as penny stock company who share prices
have been manipulated. That the financials of the company M/s Comfort
Fincap Ltd. did not justify the abnormal trading pattern of this scrip. The
Assessing Officer thereafter referred to the graph to show the abnormal
price rise and fall regarding the share of Rutron International Ltd. The
Assessing Officer thereafter also referred to the share price pattern of
Comfort Fincap Ltd. and observed that the share price of this company
fell down from Rs.401/- on 22.05.2013 to Rs.144/- on 31.03.2014 in
just 313 days. Similarly, he referred to the graph of share price rise/fall,
financials of the company. He also referred to the shares of Luminare
Technologies Ltd. and observed that the average price of the share of this
company was Rs.53/- from March 2013 to November 2013 and gradually 4 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

its price started to fall down to Rs.20/- on 05.03.2014 and remains on
an average of Rs.20 to 25 in the month of March 2014. Further, the
Assessing Officer discussed the financials of some another company
namely Strauss Industries and Exports to observe that the same was
penny stock company. The Assessing Officer further referred to the share
price pattern of Unno Industries Ltd. and observed that the assessee had
purchased shares of this company on 22.01.2014 and sold on
20.03.2014. That the share price of this company was on an average of
Rs.30 to 40 from March 2013 to January 2014 and its prices started to
fall down to Rs.13 to Rs.14 and remains on an average of Rs.20 to Rs.25
in the month of March 2014. In the case of Global Infratech& finance
Ltd. (GBL Infra), the Assessing Officer observed that the assessee had
purchased shares of this company on 04th and 5th February 2014 and
sold the same on 21st to 24th March 2014 and further observed that the
average share price of this company rose from Rs.0.76 on 03.07.2012 to
Rs.81.90 on 12.08.2013 and again fell down to Rs.10.18 on 29.08.2014.
The Assessing Officer thereafter discussed the modus operandi of penny
stock companies as to how their prices are rigged by manipulation by the
promoters/handlers of these companies. He denied the allegations of
booking of bogus short term capital loss. Thereafter, he issued summons u/s 131 to the director of the assessee company ShriHemant Kumar
Jalan and his statement under oath was recorded during the course of
statement, he was confronted with the statement of various share
brokers, entry operators and exit providers who have admitted about the
rigging of price of shares of the aforesaid companies in which the
assessee had traded. However, the director of the assessee company
denied any involvement of the assessee company in share price rigging
or booking of bogus capital loss and reiterated that the assessee
company had bought and sold shares of aforesaid companies online on 5 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

the platform of Bombay Stock Exchange through registered share broker
and that there was no accommodation entries of LTCG and STCL as
alleged by the Assessing Officer. However, the Assessing Officer observed
as under: The Assessing Officer thereafter referred to certain case laws and held
that considering the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
the trading loss on shares booked by the assessee did not look genuine
from a commercial point of view but were sham and bogus to book
capital loss which may be set off against the business income of the
assessee. He therefore denied the claim of the assessee of short-term
capital gains booked by the assessee in trading of shares. 5. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid order of the Assessing Officer, the
assessee preferred appeal before the CIT(A). It was submitted before the
CIT(A) that the trading/transaction carried out by the assessee in the
aforesaid five scrips were genuine and were duly supported with the
evidences of sale and purchase together with copies of contract notes
issued by the broker as well as copy of the demat account. Payments for
purchase of shares were made through banking channel and the sale
proceeds were also credited through bank account. The transactions
were carried out at prevailing market prices and generated through bank
channels. That all the evidences were duly furnished before the
Assessing Officer and were scrutinised and the Assessing Officer could
not point out any defect in the same. That the Assessing Officer has
simply relied upon the observation of the Investigation Wing and held
that the shares of these companies were being stock. However, the
assessee had obtained a write up of the above companies including their 7 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

audited accounts and contractors' report from the Bombay Stock
Exchange. The same were furnished before the CIT(A) and it was
submitted that all these companies were existing, functioning and
carrying on business in normal manner. Thereafter, the assessee relied
upon various case laws and that the Assessing Officer was not justified
by way of disallowing the claim of capital loss on general observation,
whereas, the specific data proving the genuineness of the transaction
was furnished before the Assessing Officer. However, the ld. CIT(A)
dismissed the appeal of the assessee by way of a cryptic order observing
that the Assessing Officer has passed a detailed order and has
established beyond doubt that the entire transaction was sham. That he
fully agreed with the Assessing Officer that the entire process has been
adopted to get the accommodation entry. The ld. CIT(A) referred to
certain case laws and decided this issue against the assessee. Being
aggrieved by the said order of the CIT(A), the assessee has come in
appeal before us. 6. The ld. counsel for the assessee has submitted that all the
allegations levelled by the Assessing Officer were general allegations.
That the name of the assessee did not feature in the statement of the
share brokers as referred to the assessment order. That the assessee was
not beneficiaries of any long-term capital gains, rather, it was loss. That
the payments for purchase of shares were made out of own funds of the
assessee. That the facts of the case of the assessee were different and
distinguished from the decision of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in
the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj &Ors reported in [2022] 139
taxmann.com 352 (Calcutta), wherein, the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court
has confirmed the additions of bogus long-term capital gains. The ld.
counsel has submitted that even the statement of director of the 8 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

assessee company was also recorded but the Assessing Officer could
extract any incriminating fact from those statements. That even none of
the statements referred to by the Assessing Officer in his assessment
order pertained to the broker of the assessee company and that the
Assessing Officer could not prove even from Investigation Wing report
that the broker of the assessee company had ever indulged in
manipulating share price or for booking bogus long-term capital
gain/loss. That these companies were still existent companies and their
shares were being traded upon the stock exchange. That even the
financials of these companies did not suggest that these were penny
stock companies. That though certain investigations were carried on by
Security Exchange Board of India and during investigation, the trading
by 14 noticees, who were suspected to be involved in price rigging in
scrip of Ruotron were restrained. However, there was no restrain against
any other person from trading in the said scrip. That neither the
assessee nor his broker were named in the list of said 14 noticees. That,
even, no inquiry was conducted in case of next three companies. That
even in respect of 5th company namely Global Infratech, only the
promoters of the said company were found to have indulged in price
rigging of shares, however, no action was initiated or recommended
against the purchasers of the shares. That the assessee company being
an unrelated party was not involved in any manner in price
manipulation of shares of the said company. The assessee, at the most,
can be said to be victim of the price fluctuation undertaken by
unscrupulous persons. That the assessee, along with other four scrips,
has traded in shares of this scrip also in normal course, without being
any idea of any price manipulation. That the assessee was not even
provided any opportunity to cross-examine the persons whose
statements have been referred to by the Assessing Officer in the 9 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

assessment order; nevertheless none of the persons as listed by the
Assessing Officer ever made any statement either against the assessee or
his broker. The ld. counsel has further submitted that though some
persons may be involved in price rigging but there were also other
persons who have carried bona fide transactions without any knowledge
of any price rigging. That the assessee cannot be punished on the basis
of generalized observations of the investigation wing. The ld. counsel has
further furnished the written submissions, which, for the sake of ready
reference, are reproduced as under: which the Company incurred were bonafide and genuine and all its
 transactions were both duly supported by documentary evidences and
 were conducted on the Bombay Stock Exchange ("BSE"), a recognized
 stock exchange,in conformity with the applicable regulatory norms,and
 at the prices which prevailed on the BSE on the relevant transaction
 dates. A.ii. The trades were properly recorded and duly disclosed by the company
 in its books of accounts for the relevant period.Your attention is invited
 to peruse the company's auditor's note in its report dated 22.08.2014,
 which is shared on Page 6 of Paper Book - I. The relevant extract is
 given below: A.iii. During the relevant year, the company actively traded in shares. To
 understand the company's motive, timing and rationale for entering
 into these trades, it is important to first step into the shoes of the
 company and think like a trader. When certain trades do not turn out
 as envisaged, it is exceedingly easy to assume that the trade seemed
 frivolous, devoid of merit, and callous from the get-go. Such
 presumptions are only possible in hindsight. However, a trading entity
 does not have the luxury of such hindsight and rather has to develop a
 keen sense of foresight to predict reasonable future outcomes and take
 positions accordingly. Trading in the securities markets is a game of
 luck predominantly but the effort and preparation undertaken by a 10 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd
 market participant to pick and choose the securities and the timing to
 enter or exit therefrom usually lead to more favourable odds. A.iv. Accordingly, a quick but nuanced study is carried out by the trading
 entity to profit from the securities markets. Notably, it is not possible to
 take trades based solely on perfect information. Not only is perfect
 information ephemeral and not available all the times, it is also
 prohibitively expensive and cannot make economic sense in the long
 run. This forces traders to develop a keen sense of market movements,
 known colloquially as a trader's hunch. Catching hold of the 'pulse' of
 the market is a known skill of many successful traders. Such
 premonitions of future outcomes are not unheard of and even traders
 with a moderate risk appetite regularly take calls based on their
 understanding of the fresh information available in the markets, which
 by their very nature are dynamic. It is pertinent to state that unlike
 investors, who are prone to an analysis paralysis, a trader moves fast
 and seldom acts upon stale information. A trader's mindset is typically
 oriented towards short-term profits and a typical trader is very quick to
 exit both from its positions of profits and losses. A successful trading
 entity is always ready to cut apparent losses and does not wait
 patiently for the awry position in an instrument to turn around. This
 makes fundamental and technical analysis all the more relevant to
 understand the trades - which comprises particulars of trends, price
 movement, trade volumes, position sizes, timing of trades and trade
 outlook, and to make sense of the same. The insights developed based
 on this analysis of information related to the stock, its industry, its
 sector and its segment of the market forms the bedrock of the decision-
 making process regarding the quantum, pricing and timing chosen to
 undertake the trade. A.v. A brief summary of the losses incurred in the trades of scrips/shares
 which has been viewed adversely by the lower authorities are as
 follows: A.vi. In the following paragraphs, the company has explained the rationale
 for undertaking trades in these scrips, the timing of entry and exit from
 the scrip,the genuineness of the transaction, etc.: The dividend of 0.18 was a welcome aberration in the barren recent
 history of dividend payout on the stock. The stock of Rutron was in a
 sustained fall and therefore like any prudent trader, the company
 purchased the stock only when its price fell substantially. Copies of the
 contract notes have already been submitted in Paper Book - I Page
 32-54. 1.4. However, the financials which showed promise were not met with an
 equivalent displacement in the momentum of the stock. The company,
 being a prudent trader switched gears and immediately cut short its
 losses by exiting its position in Rutron when it became apparently clear
 that the financials of FYE Mar'13 were not indicative of future financial
 performance of the stock. This view was confirmed with the stark and
 steep deterioration in the financial parameters of the stock (Turnoverof
 Rs.0.23 Crores in FYE Mar'14 as against Rs.4.03 Crores in FYE
 Mar'13; Total Income of Rs.2.72 Crores in FYE Mar'14 as against
 Rs.5.16 Crores in FYE Mar'13 implying an reduction of 47.28%;
 Reported Net Profit/(Loss) of (Rs.0.94) Crores in FYE Mar'14 as
 against Rs.0.50 Crores in FYE Mar'13 implying an reduction of
 288%). Accordingly the shares were sold in March 2014 when the
 expectations for making these trades did not pan out as planned. 1.5. As visible from the graph of the stock shared below, had the company
 not exited the stock when it did, the losses would be much larger and
 to the twin detriment of both the company and Revenue since the stock
 has not recovered its prices anytime thereafter. The company clearly
 averted a much larger loss by acting quickly on the information
 available before it. The promise shown by the rise in Earnings per
 share in FYE Mar'13 was quickly washed away by the mean reversion
 in FYE Mar'14 ((Rs.0.05) in Mar'14 v/s. Rs.0.29 in Mar'13 v/s. Rs.0.06
 in Mar'12) thereby dashing all hopes of a recovery in prices. It is
 notable that the company did not enter/exit at the highest/lowest price
 and the trades in Rutron were entered into basis the trend visible in the
 then latest financials of the stock available publicly. Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

 The dot in blue represents the approximate point of time at which the
 stock of Rutron was bought and the dot in red represents the point of
 time at which the stock of Rutron was sold. The company had no
 control over the market prices as incorrectly implied in the assessment
 order. 1.6. The company has downloaded the relevant order/s of S SEBI pertaining
 to Rutron and has found the following list of order/ records which is
 shared on Pages 566 566-568 of Paperbook -III. The 22 records on the
 enclosed list primarily relate to the recovery proceedings initiated in
 relation to the stock of Rutron In International
 ternational Limited. The list also
 contains records of adjudication orders in relation to penalties imposed
 u/s 15- II of the SEBI Act in relation to infringement of rules and
 regulations framed by the regulator in relation to price manipulation
 undertaken by y specified entities. The relevant extracts of some of the
 records on the list are shared below: 2.0. Comfort Fincap Ltd. (COM FINCAP 535267)

2.1. Trades in Comfort Fincap Ltd. ('Comfort') shares, having ISIN
 INE274M01026,were based on the company's own reading of the
 financialstatements of Comfort. Comfort continues to be a listed public
 company and it shares are regularly traded on the BSE. The company
 drew valuable insights from the audited financial statements of
 Comfort pertaining to the immediately preceding period of FY 2012-13
 which were readily available in the public domain and widely
 researched by other market participants. 2.2. The company submits that the trade was undertaken based on the
 following parameters which clearly sets out both the logic and rationale
 behind the trade and also puts the trading activity in Comfort in the
 proper perspective. The annual reports of Comfort for the Financial
 Years 2012-13 to 2013-14 are submitted in Paper Book - II Pages
 170 to 265.The relevant portion of the Director's Report setting out the
 financial performance of Comfort for FY2013-14, is set out below: Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

2.4. However, the financials of the next reporting period indicating
 performance during the material time, viz., FY13
 FY13-14,
 14, were contrary to
 the upward trend predicted by the financials of FY12
 FY12-13. The company,
 being a prudent trader,did not waste any further time and cut short its
 losses in the face of uncertainty regarding the falling prices of the stock
 of Comfort. The company exited its position in Comfort when it became
 clear that the financials of FYE Mar'13 were not indicative of future
 financial
 cial performance of the stock. This view was confirmed with the
 sharp and steep deterioration in the financial parameters of the stock
 (Turnover of Rs.2.79 Crores in FYE Mar'14 as against Rs.9.93 Crores
 in FYE Mar'13; Total Income of Rs.2.41 Crores in FYE Mar'14 as
 against Rs.8.96 Crores in FYE Mar'13 implying a areduction of
 73.10%; Reported Net Profit/(Loss) of Rs.0.62 Crore in FYE Mar'14
 as against Rs.0.99 Crores in FYE Mar'13 implying a areduction of
 37.37%). 2.5. As visible from the graph of the stock shared b below,
 elow, had the company
 not exited the stock timely in March 2014, the losses would be much
 larger and would have adversely affected the interests of Revenue even
 further. Notably, the stock has not attained its erstwhile price level
 even to this day. The cocompany
 mpany clearly averted a much larger loss by
 acting quickly on the information available before it. The dot in blue represents the tentative price/s at which the stock of
 Comfort was bought and the dot in red represents the tentative price/s
 at which the stock of Comfort was sold. The company had no control
 over the market prices as incorrectly implied in the assessment order.
2.6. The company has downloaded the relevant order/s of SEBI pertaining
 to Comfort and has found the following list of order/ records wh
 which is 20 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd
 Pages 569
shared onPages 569-570 of Paperbook -III. As can be surmised from
the information shared therein, it is submitted that there were no
adverse Orders of SEBI in relation to Comfort regarding price
manipulation. The 9 records on the list referred to ab
 above are related to
the takeover and adjudication orders in relation to penalty proposed u/s 15-II of the SEBI Act in relation to infringement of rules and
regulations framed by the regulator in relation to takeovers and not any
price manipulation. These ord
 orders
 ers are therefore wholly irrelevant in the
present case. The relevant extracts of some of the records on the list are
shared below: 3.0. Luminaire Technologies Limited (LUMITECH 526045)

3.1. The company traded in the stock of Luminaire Technologies Ltd. ('Luminaire'), having ISIN INE682C01021.Luminaire was later also
 known as Straus Industries and Exports Limited. Its stock was last
 traded on the BSE on 29th August, 2016.Based on the company's own
 reading of the financials and technical charts of Luminaire, which was
 a listed public company at the relevant time, the company decided to
 trade in its stock. The company drew valuable insights from its reading
 of the technical charts of Luminaire which were readily available in the
 public domain and widely used by other market parti
 participants also. 3.2. The company submits that the trade was undertaken based solely on
 the pattern oftrend reversal visible on the technical charts of Luminaire
 and the company anticipated a quick profit on the stock in the short
 term. However, the company was fforced orced to recede its holding in
 Luminaire when the stock performance did not follow the company's
 ambitious expectations. This clearly sets out both the logic and
 rationale behind the trade andalso puts the trading activity in the stock 22 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd
 of Luminaire in the proper perspective. The annual reports of Luminaire
 for the Financial Years 2012 14are submitted in Paper
 2012-13 to 2013-14are
 Book - III Pages 266 to 333 333.The
 The relevant portion of the Director's
 Report setting out the financial performance of Luminaire for FY2013
 FY2013-
 14, is set out below: 2.77%% for FYE Mar'14 as against -1.55%
 1.55% for FYE Mar'13). 3.5. As visible from the graph of the stock shared below, had the company
 not exited the stock timely in early March 2014, the losses would have
 beenconsiderably larger. Notably, the stock is no longer trade
 traded on the
 bourses. The company clearly averted a much larger loss by acting
 quickly on the information available before it. The dot in blue represents the tentative price/s at which the stock of
 Luminaire was bought and the dot in red represents the tenta tentative
 price/s at which the stock of Luminaire was sold. The company was
 never in control of the market price of the stock as has been incorrectly
 implied in the assessment order. 3.6. The company has downloaded the relevant order/s of SEBI pertaining
 to Luminairee and has found the following list of order/ records which is
 shared on Page 571 of Paperbook
 Paperbook-III. As can be surmised from the
 information shared therein, it is submitted that there were no adverse
 Orders of SEBI in relation to Luminaire regarding price ma manipulation.
 The 6 records on the list referred to above are related to the takeover
 and rights issues of Luminaire and as such are wholly irrelevant to the 24 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd
present discussion. The relevant extracts of some of the records on the
list are shared below: 4.0. Unno
 nno Industries Limited (UNOINDL 519273)

4.1. The company traded in the stock of Unno Industries Ltd. ('Unno') based
 on the company's own reading of the financials of Unno, which was a
 listed public company at the relevant time. Unno, having ISIN
 INE142N01023, was last traded on the BSE on 29th March, 2016. The
 company drew valuable insights from the audited financial statements
 of Unno pertaining to the immediately preceding period, viz., FY12
 FY12-13,
 which were readily available in the public domain and were widelwidely
 researched by other market participants. 4.2. The company submits that the trade was undertaken based on the not
 only the fundamentals but also the technical aspects of the stock. The
 parameters are discussed below which clearly set out both the logic
 and rationale
 tionale behind the trade and also puts the trading activity in
 Unno in the proper perspective. The annual reports of Unno for the
 Financial Years 2012 14are submitted in Paper Book - III
 2012-13 to 2013-14are 26 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd
 Pages 334 to 450450.The
 The relevant portion of the Director's Report
 Re setting
 out the financial performance of Unno for FY2013
 FY2013-14,
 14, is set out below: Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd
4.4. However, the stable financials did nothing to assuage the concerns of
 the company. The head and shoulders pattern on the stock charts
 implied an oncoming decline in the stock prices. In hindsight it seems
 that the company was falsely alarmed by the chart pattern since the
 stock rose in price for a brief period before again nosediving due to poor
 financial strength.The company as a trader is geared to respond to all
 stimuli in the markets to make gains from trading. The choice to
 respond to the market factors is not a simple one and the company did
 not have the luxuryof time on its hands to delay its decisions in a
 dynamic market. 4.5. As visible from the graph of the stock shared below, the company
 exited the stock in March 2014. The dot in blue represents the tentative price at which the stock of Un
 Unno
 was bought and the dot in red represents the price at which the stock
 of Unno was sold. As can be surmised from the above, the company
 had no control over the market prices contrary to what has been
 implied in the assessment order. 4.6. The company has downl
 downloaded
 oaded the relevant order/s of SEBI pertaining
 to Rutron and has found the following list of order/ records which is
 Page 572 of Paperbook
 shared onPage Paperbook-III. As can be surmised from the
 information shared therein, it is submitted that there were no adverse
 Orders s of SEBI in relation to Unno regarding price manipulation. The
 tworecords on the list referred to above are related to the takeo
 takeover and
 illiquid stock options and as such are wholly irrelevant to the present
 discussion. The relevant extracts of the 2 reco
 records
 rds on the list are shared
 below: 5.0. Global Infratech& Finance Ltd. (GBL INFRA 531463)

5.1. Global Infratech& Finance Ltd. ('Global') shares, having ISIN
 INE377M01035, were traded in by the company on the basis of its
 reading of the financials of Global. The shares of Global were last
 traded on the BSE on 29th October, 2019. The company drew valuable
 insights from the audited financial statements of Global pertaining to
 the immediately preceding period of FY 2012
 2012-13
 13 which were readily
 available in the public domain and were also widely researched by
 other markett participants. Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd
5.2. The company submits that the trade was undertaken based on the
 following parameters which clearly set out both the logic and rationale
 behind the tradesand also puts the company's trading activity in
 Global in the proper perspective. The a annual
 nnual reports of Global for the
 Financial Years 2012 14are submitted in Paper Book - III
 2012-13 to 2013-14are
 Pages 451 to 570570.The
 The relevant portion of the Director's Report setting
 out the financial performance of Global for FY2013
 FY2013-14,
 14, is set out below: Operating Profit of Rs.1.49 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.01
 Crore in FYE Mar'12; Reported Net Profit of Rs.1.05 Crore in FYE
 Mar'13 as against Rs.0.08 Crore in FYE Mar'12 implying an increment
 of 1,212.50% and trend reversal). The company, being a prudent
 trader, did not only rely on the financials of Global to make its
 decisions in the market. It was also prone to keep tabs on the technical
 aspects of the stock to pre-empt market movements in it. Copies of the
 contract notes have already been submitted in Paper Book - I Page
 32-54. 5.4. Envisaging a further fall in the stock prices owing to its interpretation of
 the deteriorating technical parameters of Global even in the face of
 robust fundamentals, the company sought to exit its position in the
 stock completely for the time being. However, the stock eventually fell
 further despite the robust financials for the period of FY 13-14 in which
 the gross income from operations increased from Rs.15.16 Crores in
 FYE Mar'13 to Rs. 24.87 Crores in FYE Mar'14, viz., a year on year
 ("YOY") increment of 64%. Even the Net Profit increased to Rs.1.61
 Crores for FYE Mar'14 in comparison to Rs.1.05 Crores for FYE Mar'13
 implying a YOY increase of more than 50%. This implies that the
 company's stance, that the stock price performance was not in
 consonance with its financials, was valid. 5.5. As visible from the graph of the stock shared below, had the company
 not exited the stock in March 2014, the losses would be much larger
 and would have also affected the interests of Revenue adversely.
 Notably, the stock has not attained its erstwhile price level even to this
 day. The company clearly averted a much larger loss by acting quickly
 on the information available before it. Assessment year: 2014-15 2014 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

 The dot in blue represents the tentative price/s at which the stock of
 Global was bought and the dot in red represents the tentative price/s
 at which the stock of Global was sold. The company had no control
 over the market prices as incorrectly implied in the assessment order. 5.6. The company has downloaded the relevant order/s of SEBI pertaining
 to Rutron and has found the following list of order/ records which is
 shared on Pages 573 573-574 of Paperbook-III. As can be surmised from
 the information shared therein, it is submitted that the only relevant
 Order of SEBI in relation to Global regarding price manipulation was
 the SEBI Order dated 16.07.2021. The company has also gone through
 the Order which was issued u/s 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992. It
 shall be noted that SEBI had found 46 specific persons/entities to be
 guilty of price manipulation in the shares of Global after detailed
 investigation. It shall be observed that 21 entities had availed the
 opportunity of hearing wherein they had inter alia questioned the act of
 SEBI in nott holding all persons/entities who had traded in the shares
 of Global Infratech and Finance Limited to be artificial or suspicious.
 The SEBI in their Order at Paras 96.1 and onwards had specifically
 observed that only the promoters and/or their connected e entities were
 found to be guilty of price manipulation and that the unrelated entities
 were not to be made party to these proceedings. The relevant extracts
 of the order is as follows: - The Hon'ble High Court had observed that the onus was on the
 assessee to establish that the price rise was genuine in light of the
 fundamentals of the scrip. On the specific facts before them, it was
 noted that the price of the scrip showed increase during recessive
 trends and therefore the movement in prices was held to be
 ingenuine. In the present case,however, the assessee has
 sufficiently demonstrated in the above paragraphs that the financial
 results and the fundamentals of the scripswas mirrored in their
 price movements and therefore it was not a case that the movement
 in prices was not explained." 7. The ld. Counsel for the assessee has also placed reliance on the
following decisions of the Coordinate bench of the Tribunal: 8. The ld. DR however has submitted that the facts of this case are
squarely covered by the decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in
the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj &Ors (supra). He has submitted that
though the issue before the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court was relating to
bogus long-term capital gains on account of investments in penny stock 37 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

companies. The assessees is those cases had claimed the aforesaid
bogus long-term capital gains as exempt from taxation u/s 10(38) of the
Act. However, in this case, the issue is relating to the bogus short-term
capital loss. That the assessee in this case has acted as exit provider to
the beneficiaries of bogus long-term capital gains and thereby purchased
the share at loss and set off the said short-term capital loss against
business income of the assessee and thereby reduced its tax liability. He,
therefore, has submitted that the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Calcutta
High Court in the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj &Ors (supra) should be
accordingly applied in the case of the assessee. That the Assessing
Officer as per the information/report of the investigation wing has rightly
held that the aforesaid five companies in which the assessee has traded
were penny stock companies and has rightly disallowed the short-term
capital loss claimed by the assessee. He has further submitted that so
far as the contention of the ld. DR that the assessee was not given
opportunity to cross-examine the concerned persons/share
brokers/promoters whose statement was recorded by the investigation
wing is concerned, the similar issue was also raised by the concerned
assessees before the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of PCIT vs.
Swati Bajaj &Ors (supra). However, the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court has
rejected the aforesaid contention while confirming the additions made by
the Assessing Officer in those cases on account of bogus long-term
capital gains. 9. We have considered the rival contentions and gone through the
record. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of NRA Steelin the case of
"PCIT v/s NRA Iron & Steel (P) Ltd." reported in [2019] 103
taxmann.com 48(SC) has taken note of the observations made by the
Supreme Court in the the land mark case of "Kale Khan Mohammed 38 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

Hanif v. CIT "[1963] 50 ITR 1 (SC) and"Roshan Di Hatti v. CIT " [1977] 107
ITR 938 (SC) laying down the proposition that the onus of proving the
source of a sum of money found to have been received by an assessee, is
on the assessee. Once the assessee has submitted the documents
relating to identity, genuineness of the transaction, and credit-
worthiness, then the AO must conduct an inquiry, and call for more
details before invoking Section 68. If the Assessee is not able to provide a
satisfactory explanation of the nature and source, of the investments
made, it is open to the Revenue to hold that it is the income of the
assessee, and there would be no further burden on the revenue to show
that the income is from any particular source. Thereafter the hon'ble
Supreme court summed up the principles, which emerged after
deliberating upon various case laws, as under: 9.1 The Hon'ble Supreme court, thus, has held that once the assessee
has submitted the documents relating to identity, genuineness of the 39 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

transaction, and credit-worthiness of the subscribers, then the AO is
duty bound conduct to conduct an independent enquiry to verify the
same. Once the assessee having discharged initial burden upon him to
furnish the evidences to prove the identity and creditworthiness of the
share subscribers and genuineness of the transaction, the burden shifts
upon the Assessing Officer to examine the evidences furnished and even
make independent inquiries and thereafter to state that on what account
he was not satisfied with the details and evidences furnished by the
assessee and confronting with the same to the assessee. 9.2 The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court, however, in the case of PCIT vs.
Swati Bajaj &Ors (supra) has observed that to prove the allegations a
logical process of reasoning from the totality of the attending facts and
circumstances surrounding is to be adopted. That it is the duty of the
Court to take note of the immediate and proximate facts and
circumstances surrounding the events on which the charges/allegations
are founded so as to reach a reasonable conclusion and the test would
be what inferential process that a reasonable/prudent man would apply
to arrive at a conclusion. Further proximity and time and prior meeting
of minds is also a very important factor. A holistic approach is required
to be made and the test of preponderance of probabilities has to be
applied. The Hon'ble High Court observed that the assessees therein had
failed to justify the rationale behind investment in the companies not
having financial worth. They had failed to establish genuineness of steep
rise in price of shares within a short period of time that too when general
market trend was recessive. That the ld. Assessing Officer has pointed
out that the assessee could not explain, why it invested in such script
without knowing the financial performance of the company. That such
cannot be case of intelligent investment or simple and straight case of 40 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

tax planning to gain benefit of long term capital gains earnings @ 491%
over period of 5 months which is beyond human probability and defies
business logic of any business enterprises dealing with share
transactions. Even brokers who coordinated transactions were also
unknown to assessee. All these facts give credence to unreliability of
entire transaction of shares giving rise to such capital gains ratio. That
the Assessing officer was justified in making the additions on the basis of
the material available on record, the surrounding circumstances, the
human conduct and preponderance of probabilities. 10. Now, we have to examine the contentions of the assessee in the
light of the ratio of law laid down by the hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of "NRA steels" ( Supra ) and by the Calcutta High Court in the case
of "Swati Bajaj"(supra). 10.1 The plea of the assessee in this case is that the assessee was bona
fide purchaser of the shares in question. That the assessee had duly
taken note of the financials and share price movement of the companies
before purchasing the shares.The ld. counsel in this respect has referred
to the financials of the said companies, the market trend and the
reasons to exit as mentioned in the written submissions as reproduced
above. firstly referred to the financial details and share price movement
of Rutron International Ltd. It has been submitted that Rutron
International Ltd. was a listed public company. The assessee company
took note of the annual reports. The said company had reported total
assets of 17.88 for F.Y 2012-13 and its turnover and proceeds had
improved substantially from its previous years. Its income has also
increased substantially. It reported net profit of Rs.0.50 Crores in FY
2012-13 as against Rs.0.11 Crores in FY 2011-12 implying an increment
of 354.54%. The stock even started declaring dividends (Equity Dividend 41 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

of Rs.0.18 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against NIL in FYE Mar'12, Mar'11
and Mar'10 implying a trend reversal and a dividend payout of 36%).
That having regard to these fundamentals of Rutron, the assessee
company had purchased shares in a staggered manner in January 2014
in anticipation of trading profits. The purchase of the stock was
motivated not only by the dividend but the anticipated price rise.
However, since the stock of Rutron was in a sustained fall and therefore
like any prudent trader, the company purchased the stock only when its
price fell substantially. However, when it became apparently clear that
the financials of Rutorn were not indicative of future financial
performance of the stock, the assessee company, being a prudent trader
switched gears and immediately cut short its losses by exiting its
position in Rutron. The ld. AR, therefore, has demonstrated that the
investments in these shares were governed on commercial prudence. 10.2 The Ld. Counsel has further demonstrated that the Trades in
Comfort Fincap Ltd. ('Comfort') shares, were also based on the
company's own reading of the financial statements of the said company.
That its stock parameters had improved from its previous reporting
period. (Total Assets of Rs.25.23 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against
Rs.21.49 Crores in FYE Mar'12; Operating Profit of Rs.1.83 Crores in
FYE Mar'13 as against Rs..86 Crore in FYE Mar'12; Reported Net Profit
of Rs.0.99 Crore in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.59 Crore in FYE Mar'12
implying an increment of 67.79% ) and the stock even started declaring
dividends whose trend showed a marked upward trajectory (Equity
Dividend of Rs.0.54 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.22 Crore in
FYE Mar'12 and NIL in FYE Mar'11 and Mar'10 implying a trend reversal
and a dividend payout of 59.60%). The purchase of the stock was timed
in anticipation of the expected price action that usually follows in such 42 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

stocks showing a reversal in dividend payout trend. That the shares
of Comfort (still Comfort Fincap Ltd 535267) were purchased in a
staggered manner in January 2014 in anticipation of trading profits and
the same were sold, again in a staggered manner, in March 2014 when
the trade went awry. The stock of Comfort was also in a steep fall when
the company purchased it. However, the company purchased the stocks
only when the price fall was sustained over a period of time. It is notable
that the company did not enter/exit at the highest/lowest price and the
trades in shares of Comfort were entered into on the basis of the trend
visible in the then latest financials of the stock available publicly. 10.3 Regarding the third company, it has been demonstrated that
Luminaire Technologies Ltd. ('Luminaire'), was a listed public company
at the relevant time. That the shares of Luminaire were purchased in a
staggered manner in January and February 2014 in anticipation of
trading profits and the same were sold on the 5th of March 2014. The
stock of Luminaire was also in a steep fall when the company purchased
it. However, the company purchased the stocks only when the price fall
was arrested and a trend reversal was visible. However, the favourable
technical analysis of the stock, which prompted the company to
purchase the stock, did not lead to the anticipated price rise owing to the
weak market outlook regarding the stock. The company, having entered
the trade to profit in the immediate short term, immediately chose to cut
short its losses as the stock price deteriorated further. 10.4 Regarding the decision to trade in the stock of Unno Industries
Ltd., the ld. Counsel has explained that the same was based on the
company's own reading of the financials of Unno, which was a listed
public company at the relevant time. That the trade was undertaken
based on the not only the fundamentals but also the technical aspects of 43 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

the stock. The shares of Unno were purchased on 22nd January 2014 in
anticipation of trading profits and the same were sold on 20th March
2014 when there was an indicator for a further decline in the prices of a
stock. That the stock of Unno was in a steep fall and the company had
purchased the stock only when its price fell substantially. That the
company did not enter/exit at the highest/lowest price and the trades in
Unno were entered into only after carefully considering both the
technical and fundamental aspects of the stock. The trend visible in the
then latest financials of the stock available publicly was upbeat. That
Unno had reported Total Assets of Rs.42.55 Crores for FYE Mar'13 and
its turnover and profit had remained stable over the years despite the
falling prices in the market. Unno had a Turnover of Rs.0.65 Crore both
in FYE Mar'13 and FYE Mar'12; Total Income of Rs.0.65 Crore in FYE
Mar'13 as against Rs.0.67 Crore in FYE Mar'12; Reported Net Profit of
Rs.0.07 Crore in both FYE Mar'13 and FYE Mar'12 implying a marked
stability in financial performance in the recent years. However, the head
and shoulders pattern on the stock charts implied an oncoming decline
in the stock prices, therefore, the assessee company immediately sold
the stock to avoid further loss. 10.5 In case of Global Infratech& Finance Ltd. ('Global') shares, it has
been explained that the trade was undertaken based on the parameters
which clearly set out both the logic and rationale behind the trades. The
stock of Global was also in a steep fall when the company purchased
it.The shares of Global were purchased in a staggered manner in
February 2014 in anticipation of trading profits and the same were sold,
again in a staggered manner, in March 2014. However, the company
purchased the stock only when the price fall was sustained over a period
of time. That the stock parameters had improved from its previous 44 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

reporting period (Total Assets of Rs.56.62 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as
against Rs.20.90 Crores in FYE Mar'12; Operating Profit of Rs.1.49
Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.01 Crore in FYE Mar'12; Reported
Net Profit of Rs.1.05 Crore in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.08 Crore in
FYE Mar'12 implying an increment of 1,212.50% and trend reversal). The
company, being a prudent trader, did not only rely on the financials of
Global to make its decisions in the market. It was also prone to keep
tabs on the technical aspects of the stock to pre-empt market
movements in it. Envisaging a further fall in the stock prices owing to its
interpretation of the deteriorating technical parameters of Global even in
the face of robust fundamentals, the company sought to exit its position
in the stock completely for the time being. 10.6 It has been further explained that the SEBI has also investigated
regarding the allegation of share trading in respect of two companies out
of the above mentioned 5 companies. In the case of Rutron, only 14
persons were suspected to be involved in price rigging who were
restrained from accessing the security market for a period of 6 months.
Neither the assessee nor his share brokers were ever named for restrain
from trading in the said scrip. Even, the company itself was not
implicated of any wrong doing. Any other person, except the aforesaid 14
persons, was not restrained for trading in the shares in the said
company. The second company investigated was Global
Infratech&Finance Ltd, in respect of which, only 46 specific
persons/entities were found guilty of price manipulation in shares of the
said company after detailed investigation. That some of the entities had
inter alia questioned the act of SEBI in not holding all persons/entities
who had traded in the shares of Global Infratech and Finance Limited to
be artificial or suspicious. However, the SEBI in their Order had 45 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

specifically observed that only the promoters and/or their connected
entities were found to be guilty of price manipulation and that the
unrelated entities were not to be made party to these proceedings. It has
been further submitted that in respect of other three companies, the
SEBI did not choose to make any investigation and there is no action
taken by the SEBI against the other three companies namely Comfort
Fincap Ltd, Luminaire Technologies Ltd and Unno Industries Ltd. It has
been submitted that no adverse orders ever have been passed by the
SEBI regarding price manipulation in respect of aforesaid three
companies. The Ld. Counsel, therefore has submitted that the facts of
the case of the assessee, when considered in the light of the proposition
of law laid down by the Hon'ble supreme Court in the case of NRA Steel
(supra) and of the hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Swati Bajaj
(supra), the evidence furnished by the assessee, the surrounding
circumstances would show that the assessee's decision to invest in those
companies was based on business prudence and that there was no
evidence, even circumstantial, that the assessee was involved in price
rigging or otherwise instrumental to book bogus short term capital loss. 11. The Ld. Counsel has further submitted that the facts of the case of
the assessee were quiet distinguishable from that of the cases of "Swati
Bajaj & others"(supra). He has submitted that in most of the cases before
the Hon'ble High Court, the purchases were off the Stock
Exchange/private placements. That there were orders of SEBI
suspending the scrip and/or wherein the concerned trader were found
guilty of price manipulation. Further, that there were statements
recorded from the brokers of the assessees, who had admitted to have
indulged in price manipulation and therefore adverse view was taken.
That in the specific facts before the hon'ble High Court, it was noted that 46 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

the price of the scrips showed steep increase during recessive trends
and therefore the movement in prices was held to be ingenuine. That the
Hon'ble High Court had observed that the onus was on the assessee to
establish that the price rise was genuine in light of the fundamentals of
the scrip. However, in case of the assessee, the trades were made on the
Stock Exchange. There was no adverse statement of assessee's broker.
Moreover the Director of the assessee was examined and confronted with
the allegations u/s 131 of the Act and he had specifically denied the
same. That the assessee has sufficiently demonstrated that the financial
results and the fundamentals of the scripswas mirrored in their price
movements and therefore it was not a case that the movement in prices
was not explained.Evenas demonstrated above, in three (3) out of the five
(5) scrips, there were no adverse orders of SEBI regarding any kind of
price manipulation. Further in the remaining two scrips, the SEBI upon
completion of investigation found specific entities/persons guilty of
manipulation. The Ld. Counsel has further submitted that in the similar
facts and circumstances, the coordinate benches of the Tribunal have
opined in favour of the assessees therein. 12. We find force in the contentions raised by the ld. counsel for the
assessee. Firstly, in this case, the assessee has not claimed long-term
capital gains on account of unrealistic steep rise in the share prices of
these scrips traded in as was in the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj &Ors
(supra). The Hon'ble High Court had held, under the circumstances, that
the burden was upon the assessee to explain the business prudence of
investment in these scrips of the companies having negligible financial
worth and thereafter of steep rise in their share price resulting into huge
capital gains within a short span of time. The case before us is of
business loss in share trading. The assessee, as observed above, has 47 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

duly explained the factors and considerations which prevailed for making
decision by the assessee company of purchasing in the aforesaid five
scrips, which included their financial worth, the market position, their
income, dividends etc. Further, it was not a case that the shares shown
to have been purchased off market/privately and thereafter they were
put into demat account after sufficient lapse of time from the alleged
date of physical purchase and then sale of the same within a short span
of time after they were accounted in the demat account, gaining high
monetary capital gains. In the case of the assessee, the shares were
traded on the stock exchange, the same were kept in the demat account
of the assessee. There is no allegation of involvementof the assessee or
even his share broker in any type of price rigging. There even does not
seem any probability of meeting minds of the assessee and/or his share
broker and the promoters of the companies. A very peculiar fact which is
noted from the assessment order/investigation wing report is that in the
list of the persons whose statement was allegedly recorded and who in
their statement have admitted of price rigging, the names of share
brokers, entry operators and exit providers have been mentioned. The
facts on the file itself show that there was meeting of minds of the entry
operators and the share brokers and exit providers. The price rigging was
done by giving benefit to various subscribers with connivance of share
brokers and the motive was to convert their unaccounted money into tax
exempt long-term capital gains and for that purpose, there were certain
persons chosen as exit providers who would buy shares when the share
prices would be at its peak and those exit providers thereafter would
suffer losses on account of fall in the price of the shares. This specific
fact on the file shows that the exit providers were already chosen to
execute the plan. The motive was to give the benefit of bogus long-term
capital gains to various beneficiaries and to make that plan foolproof, the 48 I.T.A No.2286/Kol/2019 Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

exit providers were already chosen with a pre-determined planning as to
at what stage the beneficiaries of bogus long-term capital gains would be
given exit. That perhaps was not dependent upon chance exit providers
willing to book bogus short-term capital loss. Neither the name of the
assessee nor of his share broker is mentioned in the list of exit providers.
The circumstances of this case do not suggest of unnatural and
unrealistic human conduct. The Assessing Officer in this case has not
pointed out any adverse evidence against the assessee. He has simply
relied upon the investigation report which is a general investigation
report. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of PCIT vs. Swati
Bajaj &Ors (supra) has considered the said report and analysed the
same vis-a-vis circumstantial evidences like the negligible financial
worth of the companies whose shares were traded in, the unrealistic
steep hike in the share prices as against the recessive market trend and
the failure of the assessee to explain the commercial prudence for
making such huge investments. The additions thus have been made on
the basis of circumstantial evidences and considering the preponderance
of probabilities. Hon'ble Supreme Court in PadmasundraRao v. State of
T.N. 255 ITR 147 (SC) has held that circumstantial flexibility, e.g. one
additional or different fact, may make a world of difference between
conclusions in two cases: Assessment year: 2014-15
 Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd

The Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of "Flipkart India (P.) Ltd.
v/s Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax ", [2017] 79 taxmann.com 159
(Karnataka) has observed that considering the fact that this blind
appreciation of a precedent is a frequent occurrence, in catena of cases,
the Hon'ble Supreme Court has clearly opined that a judgment should
not be read as a provision of law. A judgment is confined to the facts and
circumstances of its own case. It is only when the facts and
circumstances in two cases are similar that the ratio of the former case
becomes applicable to the latter case. As discussed above, in the absence of any direct incriminating evidence
against the assessee, the distinguishable and weak circumstantial
evidence, in our view, do not suggest the preponderance of probability of
the assessee being involved in price rigging of the scrips or being the
predetermined and pre planned beneficiary of the devised scheme,
therefore, the impugned additions are not warranted in this case, and
the same are accordingly ordered to be deleted. 13. In the result, the appeal of the assessee stands allowed. Kolkata, the 27th June, 2023.