1. This Original Application has been registered under Section 14 and 15 of National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as ' NGT

Act, 2010 ') in exercise of suo-moto jurisdiction in view of law laid down by

Supreme Court in " Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai vs. Ankita

Sinha & Ors. " reported in 2021 SCC Online SC 897, on a letter petition

dated 15.11.2023, sent by Ashish Pal and others, which says that a

complaint on 18.12.2018 sent to Prime Minster of India but they have not

received any response. 2. Complainant has said that Central Coalfield Limited is carrying out

river mining in the area of river Damodar near the village of applicant i.e.

Gram Panchayat Pichri Dakshin, Block Peterwar, Bokaro, State of

Jharkhand and lacs of tonnes of coal has been excavated illegally on a Gair

Majrua land, Khata No. 237, Plot No. 2099, adjacent to river which is

recorded as Jangle Jhadi in Survey Khatiyan. Thousands of trees of

Sakhua, Mango, Babul, Piper, Kadam, Arjun, Kend and Mahua have been 1 cut. The waste such as stone, muck, overburden as a result of illegal

mining are being dumped in river water changing the flow and damaging

environment. River Damodar is lifeline of villages in the area and water is

source for agriculture and drinking but due to damage caused to the same

by the Management of Central Coalfield Limited, the entire ecology is being

affected adversely, besides, causing health hazards to local inhabitants. 3. Tribunal considered the matter on 06.09.2024 and found it

appropriate to obtain a factual report by constituting a Joint Committee

comprising Integrated Regional Office, Ministry of Environment, Forest &

Climate Change, Ranchi; Central Pollution Control Board (hereinafter

referred to as ' CPC B'); Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board

(hereinafter referred to as 'JSPCB'); and District Magistrate, Bokaro. CPC B

was made nodal authority for coordination and compliance. 4. The Committee was initially granted a month's time to file its report

which was extended vide order dated 23.11.2024 by another month. 5. Pursuant thereto Joint Committee through CPC B has submitted

report dated 22.11.2024 vide Email dated 25.11.2024. The report gives

certain background facts, earlier order passed by Tribunal and also the

observations and recommendations in the light of the direction given by

this Tribunal vide order dated 06.09.2024 and the same are reproduced as

under: The above documents (EC, CTE and CTO) are provided as Annexure II. 4. Other Hon'ble NGT Orders and actions taken by the State
Government of Jharkhand 3 The Hon'ble NGT (PB) in OA NO.164 of 2019 in the matter of
Residents of Pichhari Panchayat Vs State of Jharkhand, the applicant
and others alleged that "there is encroachment and pollution of Damodar
River by Management of C.C.L. at District Bokaro, Jharkhand. Further
they also alleged that illegal mining is taking place and several trees
have been cut. This has resulted in diversion of the river." The Hon'ble NGT vide its order dated 15.04.2019 directed that
"Let the District Magistrate, Bokaro and the Jharkhand State Pollution
Control Board (JSPCB) look into the matter, take appropriate action in
accordance with law and furnish a factual and action taken report in
the matter within two months." In compliance to the said Hon'ble NGT orders, on 29.07.2019
the District Magistrate of Bokaro and the Jharkhand State Pollution
Control Board submitted report. Following were the observations and
recommendations of the report (Annexure III): The Hon'ble NGT vide its order dated 21.11.2019 directed the
Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board to submit the action taken
report on the violations committed by M/s CCL. Accordingly, on
28.01.2020, the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board submitted
its action taken report. As per NGT order dated 23.9.2020 in OA
164/2019 (Annexure IV), the observations and recommendations of
the report are as follows: 73. The OB dump has been stabilized and vegetation in
 ample amount has developed. The satellite image of 1972-
 73 and beyond is not available with Jharkhand State
 Pollution Control Board and Jharkhand Space Application
 Centre. The earliest images that are available are of 2006
 which indicates the presence of this dump. (2) The M/s Pichri Open Cast Project, Central Coalfields
 Limited, Pichri, Bokaro was directed to submit an interim
 environmental compensation of INR 1,00,00,000/-(Rupees
 One Crore Only/) but the Unit has asked for 45 days more 4 time to submit the environmental compensation. The
 JSPCB has further given 15 days' time to submit the
 environmental compensation. (3) The open cast mines is not in operation since 2003, so no
 new O.B. dumping is taking place." In that matter the Hon'ble NGT vide its order dated 10.02.2021
mentioned that (Annexure V)

 "The issue for consideration is violation of environmental
 norms by Central Coalfields Limited by Over Burden dumping
 on the riverbed. The matter has been considered earlier and finding the
 situation to be unsatisfactory, further compliance report was
 required to be filed vide last order dated 23.09.2020.

 According to the report filed by the State PCB on 08.01.2021,
 remedial action has been taken. In view of the above, no further order is necessary at this
 stage, in absence of any grievance being canvassed by the
 applicant. The application is disposed of' 5. Observations of the Joint Committee

 In compliance to the Hon'ble NGT orders in OA No.941/2024/PB,
the Committee inspected the alleged site to assess the impact of mining
activities and OB dump. The Committee also interacted with the
applicant who was present at the site with the local villagers. The
applicant informed the Committee about the location and Plot no.2099
where the illegal mining was carried out by M/s CCL. The applicant also
informed that the allegations pertain to mining activities in 1970s and
expressed his concerns about the environment. The allegations and
point-wise observations are tabulated as below: 6. Recommendations of the Joint Committee

 i. Overburden (OB) dumped on the riverbed during active mining
 operations by M/s. CCL before 2003. Jharkhand State
 Pollution Control Board imposed Rs.1 crore on M/s CCL for the
 environmental compensation. M/s CCL may be directed to pay
 the pending Environmental Compensation as previously
 directed by JSPCB and acknowledged by the Hon'ble NGT vide
 its order dated 23.9.2023 in OA 164/2019 for the
 environmental impacts of the past mining activities

 ii. Time series mapping from 1985 to 2022 revealed that no
 change in the course of the Damodar River. The survey map
 provided by M/s CCL confirms that the OB dumped on
 riverbed has been stabilized with the dense plantation
 activities. M/s CCL should ensure that the dumpsite remain
 stabilized and monitor periodically to prevent future
 environmental impacts. iii. M/s CCL should provide safe drinking water to the local
 villagers, either by providing water treatment facilities or
 alternative water supply under CSR activities.

 iv. The Committee could not verify allegations of tree cutting prior
 to 2003 due to unavailability of high-resolution time series
 maps. M/s CCL should initiate afforestation activities in 7 nearby areas as an additional green belt to increase regional
 green cover." 6. Dumping of overburden on the river side has been found on the part

of M/s CCL but on this aspect, JSPCB has already imposed environmental

compensation of Rs. 1 Crore and in case the amount is not paid it is always

open to the JSPCB to take step for recovery from the proponent. 7. In respect to other aspects, since no substantial violation has been

found by the Joint Committee, we find no reason but to accept the report

and direct the authorities concerned to take steps for implementation of

the recommendations made by the Joint Committee. 8. With the above directions and observations, this application is

disposed of. Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM
November 27, 2024 O.A. No. 941/2024 HB 8