These appeals have been preferred against the
 impugned judgment and order dated 24.3.2005
 passed in Writ Appeal No .1452 & 1453/1998 by the
 High Court of Madras quashing the notifications
 issued by the appellant by which it has quashed the
 notifications dated 25.5.1987 and 13.1.1989 by which
 certain regulatory measures have been taken by the
 appellant against its members. Mr. N.K. Poddar, learned senior counsel appearing
 for the appellant stated that both these notifications
 do not survive. They have been withdrawn and
 subsequently two guidelines have been issued by the T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 30 appellant on 8th August, 2008 for regulating the
 business of its members. However, subsequently one
 of them had also been withdrawn in 2011 and today
 only one guidelines is issued for which the appellant
 has not received any representation, ventilation or any
 grievance from any member of the appellant
 association in respect of the existing guidelines which
 deals with Section 44 A(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 .
 Mr. Poddar further submitted that in case, the
 appellant receives any representation against such
 existing guidelines, the highest body of the appellant
 will consider it and will take a decision as to whether
 such guidelines would continue or require any kind of
 modification. In view of the above, we do not propose to hear the
 appeals on merit and the same are dismissed as
 having become infructuous. However, in case any
 member is aggrieved of the existing guidelines and files
 a representation before the appellant, the appellant
 shall consider it and pass appropriate order, and if any
 member is aggrieved thereof whether he has made
 representation or not, would have right to challenge it
 before the appropriate forum. With the aforesaid observations, the appeals stand
 dismissed. Before parting with the case, we express
 our thanks to Shri K.V. Vishwanathan, learned senior
 counsel, Amicus Curiae, for rendering assistance in
 the instant case.”

3.22 In a further exercise of review of the limit, at the 331st

Meeting of the Council held in February 2014, it was again

decided to increase the limit on accepting tax audits from forty-

five to sixty w.e.f. from the financial year 2014-15. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 31 3.23 In order to establish that the restriction has been

incisively deliberated upon and the need of the restriction has

been supported by expert practitioners over an extended period

of time, the respondent-Institute has placed heavy reliance on

the above-discussed CBDT letter dated 19.01.1988 and the

Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (for

short, “CAG”), being No. 32 of 2014, tiled “Performance Audit

on Appreciation of Third Party (Chartered Accountant)

Reporting in Assessment Proceedings”, presented to the

Parliament on 19.12.2014. 3.24 Our attention was drawn to ‘ Section 3 .6 Control on

number of tax audit assignment’ of the CAG’s Report

wherein pertinent observations were made on effectuating

control on Chartered Accountants undertaking tax audit

assignments under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961.

Highlighting the relationship between the number of tax audits

undertaken and the quality of tax audits, the CAG reported that

there was no system in field offices of Income-Tax Department

(for short, “ITD”) to monitor compliance by Chartered

Accountants of ceiling limit set by respondent-Institute. The T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 32 CAG was informed by the respondent-Institute, in September

2014, that even though Chartered Accountants have been

provided with Form of Tax Audit particulars to be maintained

by members/Firm, maintenance of such records is a self-

regulatory mechanism and can be called upon by respondent-

Institute for checking adherence to the Guidelines. However,

any formal complaint received by respondent-Institute was

acted upon within the framework provided in the Chartered

Accountants Act and the Misconduct Rules, 2007 framed

thereunder. 3.25 As per information provided by DGIT(Systems), ITD to the

CAG in August, 2014: Institute, as an expert statutory body, would lay down

restrictions on the number of tax audits and be capable of

enforcing it. However, the CAG noted that Chartered

Accountants have been assigned very crucial work of tax audit

and therefore, the introduction of a suitable control mechanism

in the IT system, by the Ministry, in consultation with

respondent-Institute, was in the interest of the revenue for

ensuring quality of tax audit. 3.27 Respondent-Institute at its 339th Meeting held from

23.12.2014 to 25.12.2014 discussed the report of the CAG and

in pursuance thereof, a group of Council Members was

constituted on 24.01.2015 to study the report of the CAG for

the year ending March, 2014 and place its findings before the

Council for appropriate direction. The Council decided to refer

all cases, where ceiling was exceeded, to the Director

(Discipline). T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 35 3.28 It is averred that respondent-Institute had no mechanism

to record exact data on number of tax audits undertaken by a

Chartered Accountant until the respondent-Institute made it

mandatory in 2019 that submission of all tax audit reports

undertaken by a Chartered Accountants be marked with a

‘Unique Document Identification Number (‘UDIN’). Lacking

such a mechanism, the respondent-Institute, seeking to

initiate disciplinary proceedings for professional

misconduct for carrying out tax audits assignments under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, treated data gathered by the

CAG as complaints and issued communications to some

petitioner-Chartered Accountants who accepted more than

specified limit of tax audits for the Assessment Year 2013-14,

namely, forty-five. 3.29 It was submitted on behalf of respondent-Institute in the

course of proceedings that it decided to issue communications

to only those Chartered Accountants who had conducted more

than 200 tax audits in a relevant Assessment Year. As of date,

the respondent-Institute has issued only 276 notices although T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 36 there has been violation by over ten thousand Chartered

Accountants. 3.30 Aggrieved by the aforesaid communications seeking

initiation of disciplinary proceedings for professional

misconduct, several petitioner-Chartered Accountants have

challenged the impugned Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 as well

as the communications initiated by the respondent-Institute

before respective High Courts having jurisdiction. In some writ

petitions pending before various High Courts, stay of the

disciplinary proceedings initiated by the respondent-Institute

has been granted. 3.31 In order to avoid multiplicity of proceedings and

conflicting decisions by various High Courts seized of identical

issues, respondent-Institute filed Transfer Petition (Civil) Nos.

2849-2859 of 2019 and 727-728 of 2020 before this Court

seeking transfer of the various Writ Petitions pending in the

High Courts of Kerala, Madras and Calcutta to this Court. By

order dated 09.12.2020, a three-Judge Bench of this Court, in

T.P.(C) Nos. 2849-2859 of 2019, noting in paragraph 16 that

the question involved was of public importance and T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 37 necessitated a comprehensive settlement of the question of law,

allowed the transfer petitions. Consequently, the writ petitions

were withdrawn from the respective High Courts and

transferred to this Court. Thereafter, by subsequent orders

passed by this Court, all the identical writ petitions pending

before various High Courts were transferred to this Court. That

is why, all these transferred cases and the writ petitions filed

under Article 32 of the Constitution of India have been heard

together. The relief sought in these writ petitions are similar

and hence the relief sought in Writ Petition No. 25662 of 2016

before Kerala High Court [Transferred Case (Civil) No.29 of

2021 before this Court] are extracted as under: Submissions: 4. We have heard learned senior counsel Sri V. Giri, Sri P.S.

Patwalia, Sri Preetesh Kapur, Sri Rajashekhar Rao, Sri Tapesh

Kumar Singh and learned counsel Sri Manish K. Bishnoi, Sri

Pai Amit, Sri Goutham Shivshankar, Sri Nirmal Kumar

Ambastha, Sri Ashwin Kumar Das, Sri B. Ramana Kumar and

other learned counsel for the petitioners and learned senior

counsel for the respondents Sri Arvind P. Datar ably assisted

by Sri Nikunj Dayal, Advocate and learned counsel for the

intervenors Sri Wills Mathews. Submissions of the Petitioners: Furthermore, the impugned Guidelines are arbitrary and lack

any rational nexus with the objects sought to be achieved by

the 1949 Act, namely, the regulation and maintenance of the

status and standard of professional qualifications of the

members of the Institute. 4.2 Learned senior counsel appearing for petitioners

submitted that the intention of the 1949 Act was to provide for

a rigorous test and exemplary qualification to enter into the

sphere of the profession of accountants in practice and once in

possession of requisite qualification, such a person is entitled

to follow a profession which is exclusive and special on its own

merit without any kind of restriction except for a conduct

amounting to misconduct within the rigours of the 1949 Act.

As a consequence, petitioners contended that accepting a

legitimate professional engagement by a professional can never

be considered unprofessional or be considered a misconduct. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 40 4.3 To highlight the arbitrariness of the restriction, it was

contended on behalf of the petitioners that the restriction lacks

any reasonable classification and reasonable nexus with the

objects sought to be achieved. If the ceiling limit has been

imposed on audits under Section 44AB , to achieve purity and

quality of work, the restriction should have been imposed on

the volume of work, as evidenced from the number of

transactions and not on the number of audits. It was argued

that a single audit work itself could be voluminous and occupy

significant amount of a Chartered Accountant’s time, whereas

another audit work itself could be completed with relative ease

and within a limited time. 4.4 Furthermore, it was contended that the impugned

Guidelines lack any reasonable classification or reasonable

differentia on putting a ceiling limit on the number of tax audits

under Section 44AB , IT Act, 1961 insofar as no maximum cap

is placed on other audit assignments under the IT Act, 1961 that are carried out by Chartered Accountants with similarly

taxing reporting requirements, such as Sections 44AD , 44AE , 44AF of the IT Act, 1961. In furtherance of the above, it was T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 41 also urged that the impugned Guidelines, in effect, also

discriminate between Chartered Accountants practicing in

smaller cities and towns as they are not in a position to charge

the fee for each tax audit assignment in the same manner

which can be charged by a Chartered Accountant practicing in

big metropolitan cities. In effect, it was contended that the

restriction will cause a more significant drop in the income of

Chartered Accountants practicing in mofussil areas. As a result

of this uneven restriction, an efficient Chartered Accountant

may be able to complete the entire audit work within a short

duration and remain unemployed for the rest of the year, was

the submission made. 4.5 As further contended by the petitioners, the main object

of the 1949 Act, is to regulate the conduct of the members of

the respondent-Institute in carrying out their professional

duties and the exercise of agency by a Chartered Accountant in

choosing his own volume of work cannot be considered

professional misconduct. Furthermore, where the Act and

Rules made thereunder would be entitled to bring restrictions

or provisions only for the purpose of attaining the prescribed T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 42 professional standards, a mere choice of work could not be

considered professional misconduct. 4.6 During the course of arguments, analogies were often

drawn to the legal profession to argue that, it is, firstly,

inconceivable that a cap could be put on the number of cases

that an advocate can take up and, secondly, there is no norm,

custom, or practice of the profession that would require the

rule-making body to ensure equitable distribution of work to

younger Chartered Accountants. Relatedly, it was contended

that the equitable distribution of work cannot automatically

lead to betterment of the standards of chartered accountancy

profession in the country. 4.7 It was further submitted on behalf of the petitioners that

a Chartered Accountant’s fundamental right to practice the

profession is unreasonably restricted as there is no sanctity in

the ceiling limit prescribed by the respondent-Institute.

According to the petitioners, such a restriction ignores the

differentiation in professional competence, sincerity,

experience, ability and other factors that would enable a

Chartered Accountant to complete more than the specified limit T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 43 while simultaneously ensuring compliance with all quality

standards. The petitioners also vehemently argued that all

auditors cannot be assumed to take equal time in completing a

tax audit and the consequential conclusion that a Chartered

Accountant would be able to satisfactorily fulfil his obligations

only up to specified tax audit assignments under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961 would be fallacious. Furthermore, according

to petitioners, by classifying both in the same category, the

Guidelines fail to acknowledge the difference in competency

between a senior Chartered Accountant who has years of

experience, reputation, facility of ten articled clerks and

availability of other audit staff with a fresh Chartered

Accountant who has no articled clerk and no audit staff.

Reliance in this regard was placed on Raja Video Parlour vs.

State of Punjab , (1993) 3 SCC 708 (“Raja Video Parlour”),

wherein this Court held that limiting the maximum seating

capacity to 50, irrespective of the size of the screen in a cinema

hall was unconstitutional and violative of Article 19(1)(g). 4.8 Learned counsel for the petitioners have vehemently

argued that in the absence of any statistics or data supporting T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 44 the restriction on the number of tax audits and a related

reasonable explanation justifying such a cap, this restriction

could not be justified under Article 19(6) of the Constitution.

Thereby, the petitioners have contended, that the limit on the

number of tax audits a Chartered Accountant could accept has

no reasonable nexus with the provisions of Section 44AB .

4.9 The petitioners have also drawn our attention to allegedly-

identical Notification No.1/CA(7)/3/88 dated 13.01.1989

issued by the Council of the respondent-Institute in exercise

of powers conferred under Clause (ii) of Part II of Second

Schedule to the 1949 Act. It was highlighted that said

Notification brought a restriction of the exact nature, function

and importantly, restrictive effect wherein a ceiling limit of

thirty tax audits was imposed under Section 44AB of the IT Act,

1961. The petitioners have placed most significant reliance on

the fact that the said Notification was quashed and held to be

ultra vires the Constitution by a judgment of the Madras High

Court dated 13.07.1998 in Writ Petition (C) No.5925 of 1989

and the same was affirmed by a Division Bench of the same

Court. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 45 4.10 The contention is that the respondent-Institute issued

impugned Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 during the pendency of

the challenge to the Madras High Court judgment before this

Court, solely to negate the binding dictum of judgment of the

Madras High Court. Neither was any permission of this Court

sought by respondent-Institute nor was this Court informed on

01.04.2013 that new Guidelines were of identical nature as the

Notification impugned therein. Importantly, the argument of

the petitioners is that the respondent-Institute could not have

issued notices or instituted disciplinary proceedings, as doing

so would be in teeth of the dictum laid by the Madras High

Court which had not been reversed on merits by this Court.

Reliance was placed by learned counsel for the petitioners on Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. vs. Union of India , (2004) 6

SCC 254 (“Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd.”), to contend that

when the Madras High Court had quashed an identical

Notification dated 13.01.1989, the same was in effect

throughout the territory of India. It was held in Kusum Ingots

& Alloys Ltd. as under: T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 46 Therein, it was held that acquiring a qualification could not be

construed as a professional misconduct and consequentially,

such a restriction was held to be violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g). On a similar ground, emphasizing the sanctity of a

right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) , reliance was placed on

paras 14 and 15 of the judgment in B.P. Sharma vs. Union of

India , (2003) 7 SCC 309, (“B.P. Sharma”), wherein this Court

held as unconstitutional, a ban on carrying on a private

profession or self-employment on attaining a certain age

specified by the State in the absence of any reasons therefor.

4.13 Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners in

Writ Petition (C) No.267/2021 argued that by no stretch of T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 48 imagination could the restriction as sought to be imposed

herein could be achieved simply through a resolution – a

delegated legislation not specifically provided for by the

Parliament to impose a quantitative restriction. It was further

contended that the Guidelines are ultra vires the provisions of

the Act inasmuch as there is no power at all under the Act to

lay down a maximum limit on the number of tax audits.

Learned senior counsel focused on the language of the

Preamble of the 1949 Act to argue that the Act was sought by

the Parliament to ‘make provisions’ to regulate the profession.

Thereby, any regulation made has to relate to a specific

provision and no omnibus power to regulate has been granted

to the Council. 4.14 Learned senior counsel Sri Patwalia further contended

that the power to issue Guidelines has been conferred for the

first time by the Amendment Act, 2022 by way of insertion of

sub-clause (fa) and hence the impugned Guideline issued

earlier in the year 2008 is without authority of law.

Furthermore, it was contended that where Section 30B of the

1949 Act provides for power to make Regulations “for the T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 49 purpose of carrying out the objects of the Act”, subject to the

following conditions: (i) prior approval of the Central

Government under Sub-section (3) of Section 30 and (ii) the

requirement under Section 30-B of laying the same before

Parliament. The Council could not have circumvented the

aforesaid mandatory safeguards by resorting to power under Section 15 , especially when creating penal consequences.

Reliance in this regard was placed on Municipal Corporation

of Greater Mumbai vs. Anil Shantaram Khoje , (2016) 15

SCC 726, (“MCGM”) to contend that a regulation comes into

operation only after promulgation in the official gazette. 4.15 Furthermore, learned senior counsel Sri Preetesh Kapur

submitted that a restriction of this nature, to be found good in

law, must have a legitimate nexus to the object sought and

also, necessarily satisfy the proportionality test elucidated by

this Court in Modern Dental College and Research Centre

vs. State of Madhya Pradesh , (2016) 7 SCC 353, (“Modern

Dental College and Research Centre”). Learned counsel

contended that where a fundamental right of an individual is

abridged, justification of the restriction needs more than mere T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 50 demonstration of power; that the aforesaid position forms a

part of our jurisprudence. 4.16 Learned senior counsel elucidated that a significant effect

of the present restriction would be that a structural advantage

is accrued to partnership firms over sole practitioners as a

partnership firm of Chartered Accountants will be able to take

up more multiples of tax audits than an individual practitioner

permissibly can under the Guidelines. Learned counsel

contended that a Chartered Accountant has a fundamental

right to carry out tax audit, guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) and such a right could not be bartered away to colleagues in a

partnership firm. 4.17 Learned senior counsel also argued that the impugned

Guideline is hit from the vice of excessive delegation as a

resolution, by itself, could not penalize as misconduct for

taking on more clients. Also, reliance was placed on V.

Sasidharan vs. Peter and Karunakar , (1984) 4 SCC 230,

(“V. Sasidharan”) wherein this Court had held that the office

of a lawyer is not a commercial establishment under the Shop

& Establishments Act, 1968 (Kerala Act ). Relying on the T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 51 aforesaid, it was contended by learned counsel that a technical

profession stands on a different footing to other professions and

while a prescription for technical qualification would be a

reasonable restriction under Article 19(6) , any other restriction

on a profession must be carefully construed.

4.18 It was argued by learned senior counsel Sri Singh that

professions have existed even before the Constitution came into

being. Prior to the enforcement of the Constitution, an attempt

to move a legislation to restrict the practice of a profession was

subject to seeking the assent of Governor-General, in case of

Federal Legislature, and the Governor in case of provincial

legislature. Importantly, the Governor-General could not have

given sanction, if a legislation was framed to restrict lawful

practice of the profession, except in ‘public interest’. As per

learned counsel, the position could not have been said to be

worse off after the coming into force of our Constitution, i.e.

after repeal of the Government of India Act, 1935 . That even if

there were some safeguards and guardrails, the same could

only be further emboldened. To buttress his submissions,

learned counsel Sri Singh also laid emphasis on the judgment T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 52 of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Aswini Kumar Ghose

vs. Arabinda Bose , ( 1952) 2 SCC 237, (“Aswini Kumar

Ghose”) and Devata Prasad Singh Chaudhuri vs. Chief

Justice and Judges of Patna High Court, (1962) 3 SCR 305,

(“Devata Prasad Singh Chaudhuri”), to contend that a rule

made by an authority to deny the right to exercise essential

part of a function would be a serious invasion on the statutory

right to practice. 4.19 Learned senior counsel, Sri Rajshekhar Rao, appearing

for some of the petitioners submitted on the importance of

professional identity of a Chartered Accountant. He also argued

that the object of attaining quality has no nexus with the

imposed restriction which, effectively restricts both the

practitioner and the client in making a choice. It was pressed

that the consequences of a punishment being imposed by the

respondent-Institute are grave insofar as besides the

punishment imposed, various audit works namely, Bank Audit

etc. have a requirement that the auditor must not have suffered

any kind of punishment for professional misconduct. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 53 4.20 According to learned senior counsel, the Council of

respondent-Institute, under powers conferred on it by the 1949

Act, deems a member to be qualified and competent to dutifully

practice the services required of a Chartered Accountant and

thereby, imposition of a blanket ban by the same Council

without any qualitative assessment imposes an onerous

penalty on the rights of a Chartered Accountant. More so, to

attach a label of professional misconduct without any

qualitative assessment, simply due to exceeding the maximum

limit, would be incongruous with the object sought and damage

future potential prospects without any established relationship

between numerical benchmark and quality. 4.21 Reliance was placed by the petitioners on a judgment of

the High Court of Delhi in Shri R. Nanabhoy vs. Union of

India , 1982 SCC Online Del. 210 : CWP No. 2398/81, (“Shri

R. Nanabhoy”). It was held by Wad, J. therein that Section

233(B) and Section 637(A) of the Companies Act, 1956 did not

empower the Central Government to impose any restriction on

the number of cost audits which a cost accountant may

undertake. Noting that there was no material to base such a T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 54 restriction, he further found that such a cap on maximum

number of audits was arbitrary and in violation of Article 14 of

the Constitution. 4.22 It was also canvassed on behalf of the petitioners that

where the challenge to an erstwhile in pari materia Notification

was not decided on merits the respondent-Institute erred in

initiating disciplinary proceedings and imposing punishments,

especially where a stay on the operation of the judgment of

Madras High Court had been granted. Reliance was placed on Shree Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. vs. Church of South India

Trust Association CSI CINOD Secretariat, Madras , (1992)

3 SCC 1 (‘Chamundi Mopeds’). Petitioners therefore sought

the reliefs as noted above by allowing the writ petitions.

Submission of the Respondents: Institute sought to argue that the expression ‘professional

misconduct’ cannot be construed to mean only an irregularity

or an act of lowering of dignity of the profession. Rather, the

respondent-Institute being a regulatory body of professionals

can define misconduct to control and penalize a deviation from

the quality compliance standards, inter alia, for which the

respondent-Institute has been established by the Parliament to

ensure. Reliance was placed on Section 30 of the 1949 Act, read

with clause (i) of Part II of the Second Schedule of the 1949 Act, T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 59 to act effectively for ensuring compliance with standards of the

Institute by penalizing a deviation as a misconduct.

5.7 Learned senior counsel for the respondent-

Institute argued that a serious public purpose involved behind

the Notification is visible under the 1949 Act which seeks to

regulate the profession, hence the impugned Guidelines are

issued to ensure maintenance of quality and standards in the

work done and services rendered by Chartered Accountants.

This would also aid in better and equitable distribution of work

amongst the Chartered Accountants and to avoid

concentration of professional work in a few hands, to ensure

which is also a duty cast upon the Council in furtherance of its

regulatory functions under the said Act. As per the respondent-

Institute, the Council is in the best position to have definite

information about deterioration in the quality of work, as also

monopolization – both relevant factors in taking a decision on

the maximum number of tax audits to be accepted.

5.8 It was also contended that a reduction in income and/or

client base is not a ground in itself to say that fundamental T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 60 rights of a professional are affected. Nor can there by a

comparison with the Advocate’s profession.

5.9 To contravene the contention raised by petitioners that

neither does the 1949 Act contemplate distribution of available

work amongst Chartered Accountants, nor is there any

obligation to provide work for young Chartered Accountants, it

was contended that under the 1949 Act, the respondent-

Institute has a responsibility to regulate the profession and

hence, the Guidelines have been made to ensure quality work

and equitable distribution of work amongst Chartered

Accountants which objects are indisputably in furtherance of

that statutory duty. It was also submitted that the Division Bench of Madras

High Court did not consider the judgment of the learned Single

Judge of the Kerala High Court in B.K. Kamath vs. The

Institute of Chartered Accountants , (2003) 2 KLJ 21, (“B.K.

Kamath”). However, the judgment of learned Single Judge of

the Madras High Court was considered and dealt with by the

Kerala High Court. 5.10 Learned senior counsel, Sri Datar placed reliance on a

judgment of this court in Pathumma vs. State of Kerala , T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 61 (1978) 2 SCC 1, (“Pathumma”), in support of his contention

that a just balance between the fundamental rights and the

larger and broader interest of society must be struck by this

Court while trying to protect fundamental rights. Furthermore,

it was argued that this Court should defer to the Legislature in

appreciating the needs of the people and interfere only when

the statute is clearly violative of the right conferred on the

citizens under Part III of the Constitution. In addition to the

foregoing, reliance was also placed on M/s Laxmi Khandsari

vs. State of U.P. , (1981) 2 SCC 600, (“M/s Laxmi

Khandsari”), to submit that if the restrictions imposed appear

to be consistent with the Directive Principles of State Policy in

Part IV of the Constitution they would have to be upheld as the

same would be in public interest and reasonable. Further,

according to learned senior counsel, in judging the

reasonableness, this Court should bear in mind that the

present restriction is imposed in furtherance of Part IV of the

Constitution. 5.11 Further reliance was also placed on Minerva Talkies,

Bangalore vs. State of Karnataka , AIR 1988 SC 526

(“Minerva Talkies”), in support of the contention that T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 62 Chartered Accountants have no unrestricted fundamental right

to carry on the profession unregulated by the provisions of the

the 1949 Act, including the regulations made and the

Guidelines issued thereunder in the interest of general public

and the society at large. In Minerva Talkies, this Court had

upheld the restriction to limit the number of cinema shows to

four in a day. This Court had further held that no law can be

held to be unreasonable merely because it results in reduction

in the income of the citizen. 5.12 Learned senior counsel, Sri Datar, also argued that the

power to regulate a particular business or profession implies

the power to prescribe and enforce all such just and reasonable

rules and regulations, as may be deemed necessary for conduct

of business or profession in a proper and orderly manner vide Deepak Theatre, Dhuri vs. State of Punjab , 1992 Suppl. (1)

SCC 684, (“Deepak Theatre”). Reliance was further placed by

the respondents on T. Velayudhan Achari vs. Union of

India , (1993) 2 SCC 582, (“T. Velayudhan Achari”), wherein

it was held that limiting the number of depositors that can be

accepted by an individual, firm or unincorporated associations

under Section 45S(1) of the Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 63 1983 is not violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, as it

is in public interest that larger interests of the depositors are

protected. 5.13 The judgment of Delhi High Court in Shri R. Nanabhoy,

was sought to be distinguished from the present case by citing

the presence of both legislative sanction and expert opinion,

vide CBDT Letter dated 19.01.1988 and CAG Report No.32 of

2014, supporting the utility of the measure in achieving the

objects sought, namely, quality and accuracy in such audits.

5.14 Therefore, it was prayed by the respondent-Institute that

all the writ petitions/transferred cases filed before various High

Courts and this Court challenging the validity of Chapter VI of

the Council Guidelines No.1-CA(7)/02/2008 dated 08.08.2008

issued by the respondent-Institute be held to be devoid of any

merits and thereby dismissed. Points for Consideration: 6. Having heard learned senior counsel and learned counsel

appearing for the respective parties and upon perusal of the

record, the following points would arise for our consideration: T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 64 Legal Framework: 7. At this stage, the relevant provisions of the 1949 Act must

be perused. The Government of India framed the Auditors

Certificate Rules in 1932 in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 144 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913. While the

accountancy profession in India was regulated under those T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 65 Rules, in order to have a permanent regulation of accountancy

profession, it was found necessary to have a body to secure and

maintain all the requisite standards of professional

qualifications, discipline and conduct of the accountancy.

7.1 In the above context, of particular relevance is the

Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 1949 Act (see Gazette

of India, 11-09-1948, Pt. V, p. 709), which is reproduced

hereunder:- The majority of the Board’s members are elected by
 Registered Accountants members of the profession
 from all parts of India. These arrangements have,
 however, all long been intended to be only transitional,
 to lead up to a system in which such accountants
 will, in autonomous association of themselves,
 largely assume the responsibilities involved in the
 discharge of their public duties by securing
 maintenance of the requisite standard of
 professional qualifications, discipline and
 conduct, the control of the Central Government being
 confined to a very few specified matters. 2. The Bill seeks to authorise the incorporation by
 statute of such an autonomous professional body and T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 66 embodies a scheme which is largely the result of a
 detailed examination of the whole position by an ad
 hoc expert body constituted for the purpose, after
 taking into account the views expressed by the various
 Provincial Governments and public bodies concerned.”
 (emphasis supplied)

 Therefore, the 1949 Act was enacted with the object of

incorporating an autonomous professional body of accountants

that would, in respect of discharge of their public duties,

provide for uniform regulation of the profession. Thereby, it is

apparent that the relationship of the profession to public duty

is closely present even in the earliest statutory prescription.

7.2 It is pertinent to note that the long title and preamble of

the 1949 Act was amended, w.e.f. 10.05.2022, vide the

Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and

the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 2022, to substitute

“regulation and development” instead of the extant

“regulation”. The amended long title and preamble of the 1949 Act

reads as under: and the words “to be in practice” with their
 grammatical variations and cognate expressions shall
 be construed accordingly. Explanation.− An associate or a fellow of the
 Institute who is a salaried employee of a chartered
 accountant in practice or a firm of such chartered
 accountants or firm consisting of one or more
 chartered accountants and members of any other
 professional body having prescribed qualifications
 shall, notwithstanding such employment, be deemed
 to be in practice for the limited purpose of the training
 of articled assistants.”

7.4 Section 3 deals with incorporation of Institute of

Chartered Accountants of India while Section 7 states that

every member of the Institute is to be known as Chartered

Accountant. Vide Section 9 , the Council of the Institute is

constituted for the management of the affairs of the

Institute and for discharging the functions assigned to it

under the Act and its functions are delineated in Section 15. The above-mentioned Sections are extracted as under: x x x 7. Members to be known as Chartered
 Accountants.- Every member of the Institute in
 practice shall, and any other member may, use the
 designation of a chartered accountant and no member
 using such designation shall use any other
 description, whether in addition thereto or in
 substitution therefor: (2) The Council shall be composed of the following
 persons, namely :− (a) not more than thirty-two persons elected by the
 members of the Institute from amongst the fellows
 of the Institute chosen in such manner and from
 such regional constituencies as may be specified: x x x 15. Functions of Council.- (1) The Institute shall function under the overall
 control, guidance and supervision of the Council and
 the duty of carrying out the provisions of this Act shall
 be vested in the Council. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the
 generality of the foregoing powers, the duties of the
 Council shall include – (a) to approve academic courses and their contents; (b) the examination of candidates for enrolment and
 the prescribing of fees therefor; (c) the regulation of the engagement and training of
 articled and audit assistants; (d) the prescribing of qualifications for entry in the
 Register; T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 71 (e) the recognition of foreign qualifications and
 training for the purposes of enrolment; (f) the granting or refusal of certificates of practice
 under this Act; (g) the maintenance and publication of a Register of
 persons qualified to practice as chartered
 accountants; (h) the levy and collection of fees from members,
 examinees and other persons; (i) subject to the orders of the appropriate authorities
 under the Act, the removal of names from the
 Register and the restoration to the Register of
 names which have been removed; (j) the regulation and maintenance of the status and
 standard of professional qualifications of
 members of the Institute; (k) the carrying out, by granting financial assistance
 to persons other than members of the Council or
 in any other manner, of research in accountancy; (l) the maintenance of a library and publication of
 books and periodicals relating to accountancy; (m) to enable functioning of the Director (Discipline),
 the Board of Discipline, the Disciplinary
 Committee and the Appellate Authority
 constituted under the provisions of this Act; (n) to enable functioning of the Quality Review Board; (o) consideration of the recommendations of the
 Quality Review Board made under clause (a) of
 Section 28B and the details of action taken
 thereon in its annual report; and (p) to ensure the functioning of the Institute in
 accordance with the provisions of this Act and in
 performance of other statutory duties as may be
 entrusted to the Institute from time to time.” T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 72 7.5 Clause (fa) was inserted by the ‘Chartered Accountants,

the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries

(Amendment) Act, 2022’ and the same reads as under: 08.08.2008, he shall be deemed to be guilty of professional

misconduct under the 1949 Act. Clause 6 is extracted as

under: Provided that in the case of a firm of
 Chartered Accountants in practice, the
 “specified number of tax audit assignments”
 shall be construed as the specified number of T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 74 tax audit assignments for every partner of the
 firm. Provided further that where any partner of
 the firm is also a partner of any other firm or
 firms of Chartered Accountants in practice, the
 number of tax audit assignments which may be
 taken for all the firms together in relation to
 such partner shall not exceed the “specified
 number of tax audit assignments” in the
 aggregate. Provided further that where any partner of
 a firm of Chartered Accountants in practice
 accepts one or more tax audit assignments in
 his individual capacity, the total number of
 such assignments which may be accepted by
 him shall not exceed the “specified number of
 tax audit assignments” in the aggregate. Provided also that the audits conducted
 under Section 44AD , 44AE and 44AF of the
 Income-tax Act, 1961 shall not be taken into
 account for the purpose of reckoning the
 “specified number of tax audit assignments”.

 6.1 Explanation: 6.1.1 In computing the “specified number of tax audit
 assignments” each year’s audit would be taken
 as a separate assignment. 6.1.2 In computing the “specified number of tax audit
 assignments”, the number of such assignments,
 which he or any partner of his firm has accepted
 whether singly or in combination with any other
 Chartered Accountant in practice or firm of
 such Chartered Accountants, shall be taken
 into account. 6.1.3 The audit of the head office and branch offices
 of a concern shall be regarded as one tax audit
 assignment. 6.1.4 The audit of one or more branches of the same
 concern by one Chartered Accountant in
 practice shall be construed as only one tax audit
 assignment. 6.1.5 A Chartered Accountant being a part time
 practicing partner of a firm shall not be taken
 into account for the purpose of reckoning the
 tax audit assignments of the firm. 6.1.6 A Chartered Accountant in practice shall
 maintain a record of the tax audit assignments
 accepted by him relating to each financial year
 in the format as may be prescribed by the
 Council.”

 The Council at its 331st meeting held from 10th to 12th

February, 2014 decided to increase the “specified number of

tax audit assignments” for practicing Chartered Accountants,

as an individual or as a partner in a firm, from forty-five to T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 76 sixty. The said limit will be effective for the audits conducted

during the financial year 2014-15 and onwards.

7.7 Section 21 refers to Disciplinary Directorate, while

Section 21A deals with Board of Discipline and Section 21B

deals with Disciplinary Committee. Section 21C states that the

Authority, the Disciplinary Committee, Board of Discipline and

the Director (Discipline) shall have the powers of a Civil Court.

These provisions have to be read with the Schedules to the

1949 Act. The First Schedule of the 1949 Act deals with

professional misconduct in relation to Chartered Accountants

in practice and it enumerates various types of misconduct. It

has four Parts. Part I deals with professional misconduct in

relation to Chartered Accountants in practice. Part II deals with

professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute

in service. Part III deals with professional misconduct in

relation to members of the Institute generally. Part IV deals

with other misconduct in relation to members of the Institute

generally. Part I of the Second Schedule speaks about

professional misconduct in relation to Chartered Accountants

in practice while Part II deals with professional misconduct in T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 77 relation to members of the Institute generally. Part III thereof

refers to other misconduct in relation to members of the

Institute generally. 7.8 The First Schedule has to be read as part of Sections

21(3) , 21A(3) and 22 , while the Second Schedule has to be read

as part of Sections 21(3) , 21B(3) and 22 . In particular, what is relevant is with regard to a member

of the Institute, whether in practice or not, contravening any of

the provisions of the Act or the regulations made thereunder or

any Guideline issued by the Council, who shall be deemed to

be guilty of professional misconduct. What falls for

interpretation in this batch of cases is the expression “any

Guidelines issued by the Council”. The Institute issued, inter

alia, the Guidelines by Notification dated 08.08.2008.

7.9 According to the petitioners, the object of ensuring quality

of audits would be served better by frequent reviews by the

Quality Review Board established under Section 28A. The said

section is reproduced as under: T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 78 x x x (k) the regulation and maintenance of the
 status and standard of professional
 qualifications of members of the Institute; x x x (t) any other matter which is required to be or
 may be prescribed under this Act. (3) All regulations made by the Council under this
 Act shall be subject to the condition of previous
 publication and to the approval of the Central
 Government. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1) and (2) the Central Government may
 frame the first regulations for the purposes
 mentioned in this Section, and such regulations
 shall be deemed to have been made by the
 Council, and shall remain in force from the date
 of the coming into force of this Act, until they
 are amended, altered or revoked by the
 Council.” T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 80 7.11 Section 30B deals with laying procedure before the

Parliament and the same is extracted as under: The aforesaid regulations are reproduced as under: T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 81 7.14 As for relevant provisions of the IT Act, 1961 is concerned, Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961 was inserted in the statute T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 82 book by the Finance Act, 1984 and the same came into force

with effect from 01.04.1985. Presently, Section 44AB provides

that every person carrying on business, whose total sale,

turnover or gross receipts exceed Rs.10 crore, and every person

carrying on a profession, if his gross receipts exceed Rs.50

lakhs, in any previous year, is required to get his accounts of

such previous year audited by a Chartered Accountant, and

obtain before the specified date, a report of the audit in the

prescribed form duly signed and verified by such Chartered

Accountant. The said provision is popularly called “compulsory

tax audits”. The object and purpose of Section 44AB is to

prevent evasion of taxes, plug loopholes enabling tax avoidance

and also facilitate tax administration, which would ensure that

the economic system does not result in concentration of wealth

to the common detriment. For immediate reference, Section

44AB of the IT Act, 1961 as it stands presently is extracted as

under: Provided that in the case of a person whose- (a)aggregate of all amounts received including
 amount received for sales, turnover or gross
 receipts during the previous year, in cash, does
 not exceed five per cent of the said amount; and (b)aggregate of all payments made including
 amount incurred for expenditure, in cash,
 during the previous year does not exceed five per
 cent of the said payment,

 this clause shall have effect as if for the words “one
 crore rupees”, the words ten crore rupees had been
 substituted; or

 Provided further that for the purposes of this
 clause, the payment or receipt, as the case may be, by
 a cheque drawn on a bank or by a bank draft, which
 is not account payee, shall be deemed to be the
 payment or receipt, as the case may be, in cash. (b) carrying on profession shall, if his gross receipts
 in profession exceed fifty lakh rupees in any
 previous year; or (c) carrying on the business shall, if the profits and
 gains from the business are deemed to be the
 profits and gains of such person under section
 44AE or section 44BB or section 44BBB , as the
 case may be, and he has claimed his income to be
 lower than the profits or gains so deemed to be the
 profits and gains of his business, as the case may
 be, in any previous year; or (d) carrying on the profession shall, if the profits and
 gains from the profession are deemed to be the
 profits and gains of such person under section
 44ADA and he has claimed such income to be T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 84 lower than the profits and gains so deemed to be
 the profits and gains of his profession and his
 income exceeds the maximum amount which is
 not chargeable to income-tax in any previous year;
 or (e) carrying on the business shall, if the provisions of
 sub-section (4) of section 44AD are applicable in
 his case and his income exceeds the maximum
 amount which is not chargeable to income-tax in
 any previous year,

 get his accounts of such previous year audited by an
 accountant before the specified date and furnish by
 that date the report of such audit in the prescribed
 form duly signed and verified by such accountant and
 setting forth such particulars as may be prescribed: 8. We have heard the matter at length and perused the

compilations submitted by learned senior counsel and learned

counsel and perused the material on record. 9. During the course of submissions, we observed that the

catalyst for filing these writ petitions was the issuance of the

communications/notices to the petitioners herein pursuant to

the Guideline dated 08.08.2008, violation of which is a

misconduct. Although by an amendment made to the said

Guidelines, a new type of misconduct was envisaged, since the

respondent-Institute had initially not taken any steps vis-à-vis

the said misconduct, there was no challenge as such to the

Guideline as well as amendment thereto in question by any of

the petitioners herein. Admittedly, the writ petitioners have T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 86 undertaken audits under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961 over

and above the number of tax audits specified as per the

Guidelines dated 08.08.2008. Thereby, it is in the guise of

challenging the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the

respondent-Institute against the petitioners herein for

conducting the audits over and above the specified number of

tax audits that has led to the constitutional challenge to the

Guidelines as well as to the disciplinary proceedings. 10. This challenge is on three grounds: first, the manner in

which the Guideline was brought about was not in accordance

with law; second, that the Guideline is violative of Article

19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India and not protected by Article

19(6) thereof and third, the Guideline which constitutes a

misconduct within Clause (c) of Part II of the Second Schedule

to the 1949 Act has not at all been enforced until very recently

and it has been enforced only selectively, and therefore, there

is non-compliance of the equality clause envisaged under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 11. During the course of submissions, learned senior counsel

Sri Datar submitted that although a little over ten thousand T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 87 Chartered Accountants had violated the Guideline in question,

notices for initiation of disciplinary proceedings were at first

issued only in respect of a few of them, including writ

petitioners herein and those who had undertaken more than

two hundred tax audits. In regard to others, who had exceeded

the specified number of tax audits, no disciplinary proceedings

have been initiated as yet. 12. At the outset, we consider it useful to examine the

privilege conferred under the 1949 Act to practise the

profession of a Chartered Accountant. Reference to the

observation of this Court in All-India Federation of Tax

Practitioners vs. Union of India , (2007) 7 SCC 527, (“All-

India Federation of Tax Practitioners”), is helpful in this

regard. In answering the question of whether the Parliament

was competent to levy service tax on services rendered by

Chartered Accountants, this Court observed at para 34 that a

Chartered Accountant or a Cost Accountant obtains a license

or a privilege from the competent body to practise. We find

ourselves in agreement with this observation. Reading along

with Section 2(1)(b) of the 1949 Act which defines a Chartered T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 88 Accountant as a person who is a member of the respondent-

Institute, we find it right to infer that a member of the

respondent-Institute is conferred with the privilege of being

able to practise as a Chartered Accountant. 12.1 As held by this Court in Kerala Ayurveda Paramparya

Vaidya Forum vs. State of Kerala , (2018) 6 SCC 648,

(“Kerala Ayurveda Paramparya Vaidya Forum”) a right to

practice a profession is indeed an acknowledged fundamental

right, but not unrestricted and is subject to any law imposing

regulatory measures aiming to ensure standards of the

profession and nature of public interest involved in the practice

of the profession. Re: Point No.1: Whether the Council of the respondent-
Institute, under the 1949 Act, was competent to impose,
by way of Guidelines, a numerical restriction on the
maximum number of tax audits that could be accepted by
a Chartered Accountant, under Section 44AB of the IT Act,
1961, in a Financial Year by way of a Guideline? 13. We have perused the impugned Guideline dated

08.08.2008 which is extracted above. The same has to be read

in the context of the respondent-Institute functioning under

the overall control, guidance and supervision of the Council T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 89 which means the Council of the Institute has to carry out the

duties so as to achieve the objects of the Act as delineated in

its various provisions of the 1949 Act, vide Section 15 . The

power vested in the Council is general insofar as the carrying

out the provision of the Act is concerned and in particular and

without prejudice to the generality of the aforesaid powers,

certain duties have been specifically delineated. This is evident

on a reading of sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 15 of the

1949 Act. One of the objects of the 1949 Act is to ensure that

the profession of the Chartered Accountant in the country

maintains high professional ethics and renders quality service

inasmuch as Chartered Accountants are absolutely necessary

for the efficient tax administration in the country. That on

account of their services, the onerous duties cast on the

assessing officer as well as the ITD is reduced. This would

however depend upon the quality of service that is rendered by

the Chartered Accountant as a professional for which

regulation of the profession is necessary and the respondent-

Institute has been established for, inter alia, such regulation of

the profession. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 90 13.1 In this context, Chapter V of the 1949 Act assumes

importance. The said Chapter deals with misconduct. Section

22 of the Act defines “professional or other misconduct” to

deem to include any act or omission provided in any of the

Schedules. However, nothing in Section 22 shall be construed

to limit or abridge in any way the power conferred or duty cast

on the Director (Discipline) under sub-section (1) of Section 21 to inquire into the conduct of any member of the Institute

under any other circumstances. The two prongs of Section 22 are expansive and wide inasmuch as there is no limitation in

any way on the power conferred or duty cast on the Director

(Discipline) under Sub-section (1) of Section 21 to inquire into

the conduct of any member of the Institute under

circumstances other than what is stated in the Schedules. Also,

professional or other misconduct is defined by a deeming

provision which implies that the Schedules which have

enumerated various kinds of misconducts are not exhaustive

or static. With the passage of decades and with the emerging

varieties of misdemeanour, omissions or commissions of

Chartered Accountants which are not in consonance with

professional ethics and would amount to misconduct can be T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 91 defined under the Schedules so as to ensure quality service

being rendered by the Chartered Accountants as professionals.

Therefore, the deeming provision would imply that with the

passage of time, there could be newer misconducts which could

be included in the Schedules in the form of regulations or

Guidelines. The Schedules are a part of the 1949 Act which has

been passed by the Parliament. But bearing in mind the fact

that in future, it may not always be possible for the Parliament

to go on amending the Schedules to the Act so as to incorporate

newer professional misconducts particularly with emerging

technology and its applicability to the profession of Chartered

Accountancy in India, Part II of Second Schedule by way of a

foresight has delegated the power to the Council to make any

regulation or Guideline, the breach of which would amount to

a misconduct. This delegation to define and enumerate a

misconduct by way of a regulation or a Guideline is a legislative

device adopted by the Parliament so as to leave it to the

discretion of the Council of the respondent-Institute to

incorporate, define and insert a Guideline or a regulation, the

breach of which would result in a misconduct committed by a

Chartered Accountant. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 92 13.2 The delegation of this power under Part II of the Second

Schedule of the 1949 Act made by Parliament in favour of the

Council of the respondent-Institute cannot be faulted with.

This is on account of the fact that the 1949 Act itself defines

certain types of misconduct vis-à-vis a Chartered Accountant.

But in the year 1949, the Parliament could not have envisaged

every possible variety or type of commission or omission which

could be a misconduct by a Chartered Accountant. Therefore,

the delegation has been made by the Parliament to the Council

of the respondent-Institute to make regulations or Guidelines,

the breach of which would result in a professional misconduct.

The aforesaid delegation of the Parliament to the Council of the

respondent-Institute is clearly to define possible types of

misdemeanours in the Second Schedule in the form of a

regulation or a Guideline, the breach of which would result in

a misconduct in futuro. This is in order to avoid the Parliament

itself amending the Schedules to the 1949 Act every time a

different type of misconduct is to be inserted to the Schedules

by way of an amendment to the Act. Therefore, the regulation

or Guideline issued by the Council, the breach of which would T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 93 result in a professional misconduct, being a part of clause 1 of

Part II of the Second Schedule have to be read as part and

parcel of the 1949 Act itself. The delegation of powers to add

newer types of misconducts by way of a regulation or a

Guideline is neither excessive nor ultra vires under Section 22 of the 1949 Act which deems any breach of a regulation or

Guideline as a misconduct as per Clause 1 of part II of Schedule

II to the 1949 Act. 13.3 In the circumstances, we hold that the Council of the

respondent-Institute had the legal competence to frame the

impugned Guideline restricting the number of tax audits that

a Chartered Accountant could carry out which was initially

thirty and later raised to forty-five and thereafter to sixty in an

assessment year. Therefore, the Council of the respondent-

Institute having the legal competence to frame the Guidelines,

the breach of which would result in professional misconduct,

in terms of clause 1 of Part II of the Second Schedule of the

1949 Act cannot be held to be vitiated on account of there being

lack of competency or powers to frame the impugned Guideline

by the Council of the respondent-Institute. The argument T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 94 advanced by the petitioners regarding the issuance of the

Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 by the respondent-Institute is hit

by the vice of excessive delegation, is hence without substance.

Accordingly, we answered the point No.1. Re: Point No. 2: Whether the restrictions imposed are
unreasonable and therefore, violative of the right
guaranteed to Chartered Accountants under Article
19(1)(g) of the Constitution? And,

Re: Point No.3: Whether the restrictions imposed are
arbitrary and illegal and therefore, impermissible under Article 14 of the Constitution? 14. Before answering these points for ready reference and

convenience, Article 19(1)(g) and (6) are reproduced as under: 15. Firstly, Article 19(6) of the Constitution empowers the

State to impose reasonable restrictions upon the freedom of

trade, business, occupation or profession in the interest of the

general public, which freedom is recognised under Article

19(1)(g). Secondly, it empowers the State to prescribe

professional and technical qualifications necessary for

practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade

or business. Thirdly, pursuant to the enactment of the Constitution (First) Amendment Act, 1951 — it enables the

State to carry on any trade or business, either by itself or

through a corporation owned or controlled by the State, to the

exclusion of private citizens wholly or in part. It is trite law that

restrictions imposed by the State upon the freedom guaranteed T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 96 by Article 19(1)(g) cannot be justified on any ground outside Article 19(6) vide Nagar Rice and Flour Mills vs. N.

Teekappa Gowda and Bros. , (1970) 1 SCC 575, (“Nagar

Rice Milling”). 16. The ambit of reasonable restrictions on the exercise of

rights under Article 19(1)(g) in the interest of the general public

under Article 19(6) was further explained in Hathising

Manufacturing Co. Ltd. vs. Union of India , (1960) 3 SCR

528 (“Hathising Manufacturing Co. Ltd.”), which concerned

the challenge to the validity of Section 25FFF(1) of the

Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, which required the industries to

pay compensation on closure of their undertakings: Institute’s assertion that there is a probable link between the

number of tax audits undertaken and the quality thereof is

supported by concerns and suggestions shared by experts and

practitioners over a span of time extending over thirty years. In

fact, the preceding sentiment is evidenced by both CBDT’s

letter dated 19.01.1988 seeking views of the respondent- T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 98 Institute on the imposition of a limit and the CAG’s Report

presented to the Parliament on 19.12.2014 discussed above. 19. Following the dicta of the Constitution Bench of this Court

in Saghir Ahmad vs. State of U.P. , (1954) 2 SCC 399

(“Saghir Ahmad”), the burden to establish that the

instantiation of the specified number of tax audit assignments

was within the purview of the exception laid down in Article

19(6) is on the respondent-Institute. We find that the

respondent-Institute has placed ample material before this

Court to establish that the legislation comes within the

permissible limits of clause (6). But the factual matrix herein is

dissimilar to Saghir Ahmad, wherein this Court had

‘absolutely no materials’ before it to say in which way the

establishment of State monopoly in road transport service

would be conducive to the general welfare of the public. 20. In this regard, we place reliance upon Sakhawant Ali vs.

State of Orissa , (1954) 2 SCC 758 (“Sakhawant Ali”),

wherein this Court was seized of a challenge to a

disqualification from electoral candidature of legal practitioners

who were employed on payment, on behalf of the municipality T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 99 or to act against the municipality. This Court emphasised upon

the salutary object of the disqualification, i.e., the purity of

public life, which would invariably be thwarted if there arose a

situation where there was a conflict between interest and duty.

This Court took note of the possibility of a conflict of interest

and duty of a municipal councillor employed as a paid legal

practitioner and was alive to the possibility that such a

councillor may misuse his position to obtain municipal briefs,

get unreasonable fees sanctioned or compromise the interests

of the municipality while acting on behalf of private parties.

What is of pertinence here is that this Court was alive to the

fact that cases of misuse may be an exception because lawyers

would be loathe to stoop to such tactics, yet, it upheld the

restriction because it sought to prevent a possible abhorrent

misconduct and malpractice that would be corrosive to public

life. The reasoning in Sakhawant Ali was to the effect that

disqualification of a legal practitioner from contesting elections

did not prevent him from practising his profession of law and

as such, the right to practice the profession of law under Article

19(1)(g) did not imply the existence of a fundamental right in T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 100 any person to stand as a candidate for election to the

municipality. 21. Therefore, the present petitioners’ assertion that the

undertaking of more than a specified number of tax audit

assignments would not imperil the integrity and quality of the

tax audit does not persuade us because a reasonable possibility

of the fall in quality owing to the surfeit of tax audit

assignments exists. Therefore, we find it proper to trust the

wisdom of the respondent-Institute as it has acted on bona fide

and genuine recommendations of the CAG and the CBDT. We

find no fault in the endeavour of the respondent-Institute to

eliminate the possibility of the conduct of tax audits in an

insincere, unethical or unprofessional manner. 22. Keeping the aforesaid in mind, there is no difficulty in

concluding that by virtue of being a licensee, a privilege is

conferred on Chartered Accountants. An elaborate and

extensive process of recommendations and policy-making

preceded the insertion of Section 44AB in order to achieve the

public interest of prevention of tax leakages and more T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 101 efficient tax administration. It is in pursuance of this primary

goal of public interest that a further privilege under Section

44AB was extended to Chartered Accountants to conduct

quality tax audits, so as to enable the interest of the public

exchequer. 23. The present discussion would be enriched by a

comparative discourse on State regulation of licensed

professions as under: The case pertained to the conviction of an attorney for

misconduct on the basis of his in-person solicitation from

accident victims. Repelling the attorney’s claims regarding the

violation of the right to freedom, Justice Powell laid stress on

the need for prophylactic regulation to safeguard the interests

of the lay public. This is for the reason that the State bears a

special responsibility for maintaining standards amongst

members of the licensed professions. This view is strengthened T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 102 by the reasoning in Williamson vs. Lee Optical Co., 348 U.S.

483 (1955), (“Williamson”) and Semler vs. Oregon State

Board of Dental Examiners, 294 U.S. 608 (1935),

(“Semler”). (ii) On this point, the dicta from Goldfarb vs. Virginia State

Bar, 421 U.S. 773, 792, (1975), (“Goldfarb”) is also

instructive and the relevant portion of the judgment reads as

follows: This Court had emphasized that even though such a

Notification may be issued under the authority of law that was T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 103 enacted by a competent legislature, it would nevertheless be

liable for directly infringing the fundamental right of the

petitioner guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g) unless it is established

that it seeks to impose reasonable restrictions in the interest of

the general public and a less drastic restriction will not ensure

the interest of the general public. It was reasoned that the

judicial determination of the validity of the law imposing a

prohibition on the carrying on of a business or profession

should be informed by: Furthermore, an examination of the nature of the supposed

right that was being enjoyed by Chartered Accountants reflects

that in practice, an assessee, seeking to comply with the

requirements of Section 44AB , would approach a Chartered T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 108 Accountant to obtain a certificate of audit. We have already

observed and noted that Section 44AB , IT Act, 1961 was

inserted to assist the Revenue Department in public. Thereby,

it is only through the extension of statutory privilege by the

presence of Section 44AB , IT Act, 1961, that a Chartered

Accountant gets the opportunity to undertake tax audits under

the said section. If the Parliament, in its wisdom, at a certain

future date, due to technological developments or any other

reason, finds that expeditious and accurate assessments can

be ensured without imposing on assessees the burden of

additional requirement of tax audit report and thereby deletes Section 44AB from the IT Act, 1961 , it could not be possibly

argued that the right under Article 19(1)(g) has been abridged.

What follows is that when a privilege is being granted, as a

privilege by statute, which could be effaced completely, a

reasonable restriction could also be imposed, the latter being a

restriction of a lesser degree than a complete ban on an activity. 28. On the scope of restrictions imposed to maintain quality

of service where a privilege had been extended by the

Government to medical officers, this Court, in Sukumar T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 109 Mukherjee vs. State of W.B. , (1993) 3 SCC 723, (“Sukumar

Mukherjee”), held that the restriction was reasonable where

the State of West Bengal had, vide Section 9 of the West Bengal

State Health Service Act, 1990, prohibited private practice by

members of W.B. Medical Education Service who were also

teaching in medical institutions. It was held that where the

State Government had concluded that the regime of permitting

private practice of those teaching in medical institutions led to

a considerable decline in quality of teaching, such restriction

was reasonable and in the interest of general public as the ban

on private-practice would make available to the teachers-

doctors the time required for reading and research which was

absolutely essential for maintaining quality in their main

profession as teachers in medicine. Furthermore, where for a

brief period, in the facts of that case, private practice by

teaching post-holders was also permitted and then withdrawn,

this Court held that such an extension was only a privilege

extended on people who were regulated by the relevant Act and

rules made thereunder and therefore, the revocation of that

privilege was not the violation of any right. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 110 29. Where public interest was the genesis of a privilege being

extended to Chartered Accountants and not a right, it is

reasonable that the respondent-Institute, an expert body,

would have the authority to regulate the privilege extended to

Chartered Accountants in a reasonable manner deemed

appropriate to serve public interest. That the public interest

involved in the present petitions being pervasive is evidenced

through CAG’s recommendation to the Government to insert a

provision in the statute book putting a cap on the number of

tax audits permissible. According to the CAG, in the matter of

revenue, the IT Act, 1961 should have provision to prescribe for

quality of tax audit assignments rather than relying on

respondent-Institute. 30. It would be apposite at this juncture to refer to the

judgment in P.V. Sivarajan vs. Union of India , AIR 1959 SC

556, (“P.V. Sivarajan”), delivered by a Constitution Bench of

this Court. Petitioner therein was aggrieved by the rejection of

his application as a registered exporter of coir products, on the

ground that he had not already exported the minimum

specified quantity of 500 Cwts. It was observed by this Court T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 111 that Parliament had enacted the Coir Industry Act, 1953 ,

finding it expedient in public interest that the Union should

take under its control the coir industry as several malpractices

had crept in the export trade such as non-fulfilment of

contracts, supplying goods of inferior quality in an industry

crucial to the repute of India’s products and national economy.

With the intent of limiting these losses due to qualitative

underperformance, the Central Government, under powers

conferred by the statute, framed Rules in 1958. The Rules were

assailed by the petitioner therein, contending that they

erroneously prescribed a quantitative test for registration of

established exporters, when in fact, a qualitative test would be

more suitable. This argument was rejected, holding that once

it is accepted that regulation of coir industry is in public

interest, then it would be erroneous to assert that regulation

must be introduced only on the basis of a qualitative test. This

Court was mindful of the potential difficulties in introducing

and effectively enforcing a qualitative test and thereby held that

it would be for the rule-making authority to decide as to which

test would meet the requirements of public interest and what T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 112 method would be most expedient in controlling the industry for

national good. This Court noted as under: It is thus clear that the main object which the rules
 propose to achieve is to improve the anomalies and
 malpractices prevailing in the export trade of coir
 commodities and to put the said trade on a firm
 and enduring basis in the interest of national
 economy. We are, therefore, satisfied that the
 challenge to the impugned rules on the ground of
 infringement of Article 14 of the Constitution must
 also fail.”
 (emphasis supplied) 31. The further contention that a quantitative test

discriminates between persons carrying on business on a large T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 114 scale and those who carry on business on a small scale as even

the prescription of a qualitative test would also lead to hardship

on those who cannot satisfy the test was rejected. 32. We must also now consider further arguments advanced

by learned senior counsel and counsel for the petitioners.

Heavy reliance placed on Institute of Chartered Financial

Analysts of India, in our considered opinion, is misplaced.

This case concerned whether acquisition of an additional

qualification of Chartered Financial Analyst (“CFA") by a

Chartered Accountant could be termed as professional

misconduct under Section 22 of the 1949 Act. Holding in the

negative, this Court found that enhancement of knowledge,

training and ability should be encouraged in an emerging

economy and to term the same as professional misconduct

would be violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g). That case is

clearly distinguishable. Neither did this Court find that the

restriction placed was in public interest, nor that the

acquisition of an additional qualification hurt the quality of

statutory responsibilities attributed to a Chartered Accountant. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 115 33. The argument advanced by learned counsel for the

petitioners is that as a direct consequence and effect of the

ceiling limit, an anomalous situation of discrimination between

qualified professionals practicing in metropolitan cities as

against those in mofussil areas, or those catering to small

assessees as against those catering to bigger assessees, must

be categorically rejected. The potential effect of the concerned

restriction is that practitioners dealing in mofussil areas or

catering to small assessees will face a reduction in their income

which is violative of their right to freely engage in their

profession. We find ourselves unable to agree with this

contention. There is no material to suggest that this partial

limitation on the practise of the profession would lead to a

significant reduction in income. In any case, it is trite law that

reduction of income cannot be a ground for holding a

reasonable restriction unreasonable vide Minerva Talkies

which we shall discuss later. Where the devolution of a privilege

is justifiably restricted in public interest and such restriction

has a rational nexus with the objects sought to be achieved, the

restriction cannot be held unreasonable due to hardship faced

by a certain section of professionals. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 116 34. The following judgments of this Court are also apposite: This was unsuccessfully challenged by way of a writ petition

under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Allahabad High

Court. But, this Court observed that the freedom guaranteed

under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution is valuable and cannot

be violated on grounds which are not established to be in public

interest or just on the basis that it is permissible to do so. For

placing a complete prohibition on any professional activity,

there must exist some strong reason for the same with a view

to attain some legitimate object and non-imposition of such T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 117 prohibition might result in jeopardizing or seriously affecting

the interest of the people in general. Otherwise, it would not be

a reasonable restriction. We do not have any contrary opinion

to what has been observed by this Court in the aforesaid

judgment but the facts of each case would ultimately decide

whether, a complete prohibition, ban or restriction is a

reasonable one or not depending upon the public interest it

would seek to achieve. In the aforesaid case clause 17 of the

instructions was held to be ultra vires Article 19(1)(g) and

hence, quashed by this Court. (b) In Minerva Talkies, Rule 41-A of Karnataka Cinemas

(Regulations) Rules, 1971 made under Section 19 of the

Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1964 limiting the cinema

shows to four per day was held to be neither ultra vires the said

Act nor violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. It was

observed that no licensee can claim to have an unrestricted

right to exhibit cinematograph films for all the twenty-four

hours of the day. Such a claim would obviously be against

public interest. The right to exhibit cinematograph films is

regulated by the provisions of the Act in the interest of the T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 118 general public. The restriction to limit the number of shows to

four in a day placed by Rule 41-A is regulatory in nature which

clearly carries out the purposes of the Act. In the context of Article 19(1)(g) , it was observed that the law placing restrictions

on the citizens’ right to do business must satisfy two conditions

set out in clause (6) of Article 19: firstly, the restrictions

imposed by the law must be reasonable, and secondly, the

restrictions must be in the interests of the general public. If

these two tests are satisfied, the law placing restriction on the

citizens’ right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) must be

upheld. While considering the validity of Rule 41-A which had

limited the number of films to be exhibit in a day to four shows,

it was noted that holding of continuous five shows from 10 am

in the morning caused great inconvenience to the incoming and

outgoing cine-goers and endangered public safety. A short

interval of fifteen minutes between two shows is too little time

for cleaning the cinema halls and there was also rush by the

cine-goers to occupy the seats. Moreover, licensees would start

exhibiting approved films and slides before the cine-goers could

occupy their seats, with the result they would not have the

benefit of the same. The absence of interval between the shows T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 119 resulted in denial of fresh air, ventilation and cleanliness in the

cinema halls. In order to remove these maladies, the restriction

on the number of shows to four per day was introduced. After

analysing the inconvenience that would be caused to the cine-

goers and also the fact that if the five shows were exhibited from

10 am to 1 am the next day, there would be great inconvenience

caused to the public, the State Government had promulgated

the restriction to only four shows in a day. Consequently, the

said Rule was upheld by this Court by observing that it was

intra vires the Act as it carried out the purposes of the Act and

it did not place any unreasonable restriction in violation of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Consequently, this Court

dismissed the appeals as well as the writ petitions. (c) In T. Velayudhan Achari, Section 45-S (1) as introduced

by Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 1983 limiting the number

of depositors that can be accepted by individual, firm or

unincorporated association, was held to be not violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution as the said limitation

protected larger interest of depositors. It was observed that a

ceiling for acceptance of deposits and to require maintenance T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 120 of certain liquidity of funds as well as not to exceed borrowings

beyond a particular percentage of the net-owned funds had

been provided in the corporate sector. But for these safeguards,

the depositors would be left high and dry without any remedy.

It was held that the restrictions were reasonable and were in

the public interest. (d) In B.K. Kamath, Kurian Joseph J. (as a Judge of the Kerala

High Court), observed that the Chartered Accountants Act was

enacted for regulating the profession and in the process

regulating and maintaining the status of the Chartered

Accountants. Therefore, the measures taken, intended to

maintain and improve the quality of work and ensure equitable

distribution of work among the Chartered Accountants could

not be held to be an unreasonable restriction since such

restrictions are necessary for maintaining the status of the

Chartered Accountants and also for ensuring the quality of the

work by them. Comparing the said restriction to Section 224 of

the Companies Act, 1956 wherein a Chartered Accountant is

permitted to audit only twenty companies in a financial year

since the introduction of the said provision in the year 1974, it T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 121 was observed that such regulatory measures are provided in

view of the onerous and time-consuming nature of the work of

the Chartered Accountant requiring accuracy and perfection. The Income Tax Act attributes much importance to the

certificate of audit by the Chartered Accountant and therefore,

it is in public interest also to introduce certain restrictions on

the volume of work lest it would affect professional standards

apart from affecting the professional status. We are in complete

agreement with the aforesaid observations. In our view, the

comparison made between Chartered Accountants and

Advocates by the petitioners is also inappropriate. 35. It is also noted that under Section 224 of the Companies

Act, 1956 which deals with appointment and remuneration of

auditors, there is a bar with regard to appointment or

reappointment of any person as an auditor of a company, if

such person or firm of auditors is, at the date of such

appointment or reappointment, holding appointment as

auditor of specified number of companies or more than the

specified number of companies. Explanation (1) to Section 224 defines specified number to mean (a) in the case of a person or T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 122 firm holding appointment as auditor of a number of companies

each of which has paid-up share capital of less than rupees

twenty-five lakh, twenty such companies; and (b) in any other

case, twenty companies, out of which not more than ten shall

be companies each of which has paid-up share capital of

rupees twenty-five lakh or more. Explanation-II states that in

computing the specified number, the number of companies in

respect of which or any part of which any person or firm has

been appointed as an auditor, whether singly or in combination

with any other person or firm, shall be taken into account. 36. The restriction placed under Section 224 of the

Companies Act, 1956 with regard to the number of companies

which could be audited by an auditor or firm of auditors is also

an instance of regulation of the profession of Chartered

Accountants intended by the Parliament so as to ensure that

standard and quality in the audit of accounts of companies as

defined under Section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 are

maintained. This is to protect the rights and interest of the

shareholders as well as the investors in the companies. Any

omission or inadvertence in the auditing of such company T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 123 accounts would inevitably have an adverse impact not only on

the balance-sheets of the companies but also on the potential

investments and growth of the companies. There has not been

any challenge to the said regulation which is in the form of a

restriction. Any breach of the restriction placed on the

Chartered Accountants under Section 224 may lead to

misconduct under the provision of 1949 Act. 37. It is for the foregoing reasons that we find that questions (i), (ii) and (iii) ought to be held in favour of the respondent-

Institute. Re: Point No.4: Whether exceeding such specified number
of tax audits can be deemed to be ‘professional
misconduct’? 38. During the course of submissions, an alternative plea

raised by learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the

petitioners was that the respondent-Institute initiated

disciplinary proceedings only against a few Chartered

Accountants, including petitioners herein, while a majority of

the Chartered Accountants who had breached the Guideline

are not facing any disciplinary proceeding and have not been

proceeded against. Secondly, it was contended that it was only T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 124 recently that notices have been issued to the writ petitioners

herein to respond to the same and for conducting disciplinary

proceedings. That there cannot be a discrimination, so to say,

by the respondent-Institute in the matter. That, the impugned

Guideline dated 08.08.2008 has been on the statute book, the

disciplinary proceedings have been initiated only recently. The

impugned Guideline has not been effectively given effect to.

Therefore, the disciplinary proceeding may be quashed for the

aforesaid reasons. In this regard, it was contended that when

the respondent-Institute has remained silent and not acted

upon the Guideline, since it was issued on 08.08.2008, all of a

sudden there could not have been initiation of disciplinary

proceedings only against the petitioners herein and possibly

others who may not have approached any court of law, whereas

many other Chartered Accountants have not been proceeded

against and are virtually scot-free. Therefore, there is

discrimination and violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of

India herein in the implementation of the Guideline vide

Notification dated 08.08.2008. Therefore, pending full and

effective implementation of the Guideline impugned herein of

the impugned proceedings against the petitioners herein for the T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 125 alleged misconduct on their part for violating the Guideline may

be dropped. 39. It is observed that there has been an uncertainty in law

due to a similar Guideline being successfully assailed and

during the pendency of the matter before this Court the

impugned Guideline being enforced and selective

implementation of the same by the respondent-Institute.

Relying on the dictum of this Court in Chamundi Mopeds, the

petitioners contended that a stay on the judgment of Madras

High Court was only on the operation of the judgment and not

a declaration that the judgment was bad in law. As the special

leave petition impugning the judgment of Madras High Court

was dismissed as infructuous and any action taken by the

respondent-Institute on the superseding Guideline dated

08.08.2008 was taken only belatedly, we find force in the

submission that there was uncertainty in law only in the

context of the pendency of the matter before this Court on there

being quashing of the Guideline by the Madras High Court and

an interim stay of the said judgment by this Court. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 126 40. In this regard, we may refer to Halsbury Laws of England,

[5th Edn. Volume 96 (2018)] dealing with the principle against

doubtful penalisation: 41. Francis Bennion on Statutory Interpretation (8th Edn,

2020 at Section 26 .4) deals with principle against doubtful

penalisation in the following words: 42. It was borne out during the course of arguments and

through the submissions made in the Counter Affidavit that the

tax audit monitoring mechanism was firstly, self-regulatory,

wherein the disciplinary mechanism would kick in only on a

complaint made/information received and not

otherwise. Furthermore, the Tax Audit Monitoring Cell was

created only after the CAG Report No. 32/2014, and even after

that, initially notices were sent only selectively to Chartered T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 127 Accountants who had completed more than two hundred

audits not to all who had breached the impugned Guideline. 43. As a rule of statutory interpretation, we find that the

aforesaid principles, in an equitable legal system, should be

applicable to the present circumstances. Thereby, for the

limited period of uncertainty, the rule against doubtful

penalization as a principle could, in the interest of justice and

equity, be made applicable and the benefit of uncertainty be

given to those subjected to misconduct proceedings in the

instant writ petitions and to also those Chartered Accountants

who may have received notices from the respondent-Institute

and who may not have approached any court of law or to other

similarly situated Chartered Accountants who may not have

been proceeded against. 44. Reference may also be made to judgment of this Court in Jindal Paper & Plastics vs. Union of India , (1997) 10 SCC

536, (“Jindal Paper & Plastics”) wherein the question on

merits was settled by a judgment of this Court in Kasinka

Trading vs. Union of India , (1995) 1 SCC 274, (“Kasinka

Trading”), delivered on 18.10.1994 and a larger bench on T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 128 20.12.1996 concluded that the judgment dated 18.10.1994

was good law. This Court allowed the petitioner’s prayer therein

that for the period of uncertainty in law, i.e., until the law, on

merits, was settled by this Court on 18.10.1994, a lesser

interest rate of 12% be charged instead of 17.5%, as ordered by

the High Court. In these circumstances, this Court held as

follows: Institute, there were around twelve thousand Chartered

Accountants who had breached the Guideline and had

undertaken tax audits over and above the specified number but

no action whatsoever was initiated against of them. 46. In conclusion, we must also note the dictum in Malpe

Vishwanath Acharya vs. State of Maharashtra , (1998) 2

SCC 1, (“Malpe Vishwanath Acharya”), wherein this Court,

relying on Motor General Traders vs. State of A.P. , (1984) 1

SCC 222, (“Motor General Traders”), reiterated that a

provision which was/is reasonable may with the passage of

time become unreasonable. In the context of restriction on the

specified audits under Section 44AB of IT Act, 1961, Minutes

of the Council of the respondent-Institute reflect that with the

passage of time, the number of tax audits to be permitted have

been repeatedly deliberated, re-evaluated and increased,

subject to final decision taken by the Council. However, it also

becomes apparent that decisions of the Council on whether to T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 130 increase or maintain the status quo have been ad-hoc,

influenced by several factors such as technological

development, number of practicing Chartered Accountants,

etc. Since the last revision to sixty tax audits was made a

decade ago, we direct the Council to consider if the time is ripe

to enhance the specified number of tax audits and to delineate

the factors that it may consider in taking such a decision. 47. In that view of the matter, the respondent-Institute is at

liberty to enhance the specified number of tax audits that could

be undertaken by practicing Chartered Accountants under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961. For that purpose, liberty is

reserved to the practising Chartered Accountants to make their

suggestions to the respondent. 48. We wish to make certain observations before parting with

these writ petitions. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of

India over a period of time, has received recognition as a

premier accounting body, domestically and globally, for

maintaining highest standards in technical, ethical areas and

for sustaining stringent examination and educational

standards. Since its inception in the year 1949, the profession T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 131 of Chartered Accountancy and accounting has grown leaps and

bounds in terms of the number of members, which now stands

at over 3.5 lakhs. The respondent-Institute has also played a

significant role in ensuring the dynamism of the Chartered

Accountancy course curriculum and the credibility of the

examinations. The financial skills of the aspirants are fairly

consolidated, at the time of joining the profession itself- this is

owing to the robust examination pattern. We commend that the

respondent-Institute must be committed towards convergence

of accounting, auditing and ethical standards with

international practices and for its endeavour towards securing

the highest standards of corporate governance. The true test

however, lies in application and enforcement of these standards

in the Indian context. 49. The power to control and impose taxes is a cornerstone of

State sovereignty. Welfare States impose taxes to generate

revenue that enables investment in human capital,

infrastructure and services for citizens and businesses. The

Tax Law landscape in India has been one of the most dynamic

areas of law and has witnessed several changes over the last T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 132 few decades. The Taxation Systems in India have been

periodically assessed and several changes have been brought

about from time to time. Such changes have been introduced

with a view to either widen the tax base; to simplify and

rationalise laws and procedures; to bring about modernization

through computerization of tax returns; to enhance efficiency

of the tax administration; or to maintain progressivity at such

levels as would not induce evasion. 49.1 In relation to direct taxation, we believe that the taxation

system must be one that not only incorporates the normative

and prescriptive considerations of neutrality, fairness,

certainty, efficiency etc. but one that also promotes the

virtuous circle of increased trust between tax payers and the

tax administration. We call this a “virtuous circle” because it

seeks to achieve a dual purpose: it reinforces voluntary

compliance while at the same time promoting good governance.

Good governance is achieved in an attempt to secure the

confidence of the taxpayer. Once a taxpayer is certain that tax

revenue is being channelled in an efficient manner, consistent

with the objectives of a welfare state, enhanced tax compliance T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 133 is likely to follow. It is in this context that we stress on the

significance of the role played by Chartered Accountants. They

can serve as effective catalysts in securing this circle of trust

between the taxpayer and the tax administration. This is

because a large proportion of the tax payers in India seek

advice of Chartered Accountants to understand the rules of the

road. The integrity and standards of Chartered Accountants

determine the efficiency in the functioning of the nation’s

taxation system. 49.2 There are many concepts and processes in the present

taxation regime that rest, almost completely, on the vigilance

of Chartered Accountants and auditors. The very concept of

self-assessment carries with it the requirement of good faith

practices. The most recent tax reforms seek to achieve

transparent taxation by “Honouring the Honest taxpayer.” The

success of such initiatives depends, to a very large extent, on

the vigilance demonstrated by Chartered Accountants.

49.3 Transparency in accounting is imperative to the economy

in many ways. For instance, in the absence of accurate

financial reporting, it would become difficult for banks to make T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 134 informed decisions about credit allocation. It is the quality,

reliability and objectivity of this information which

stakeholders rely upon to make informed judgments and

allocate resources efficiently. The role of transparent

accounting is critical in lending credibility to the financial

market transactions. Market participants, investors and

shareholders look towards this community for accurate

information, which ensures market discipline and fosters

confidence of various stakeholders. The onus is on Chartered

Accountants to ensure that our Nation’s businesses do indeed

conform to high corporate governance standards. Further,

while the quality of information has immediate and far-

reaching implications for a particular enterprise, it eventually

permeates to the market and the economy as a whole. It is

therefore not surprising to find that the accounting profession

is being constantly challenged to meet the demands for quality

information. As key providers and verifiers of information, the

bottom-line is simple: the higher the quality and integrity

maintained by the profession, the stronger and more resilient

will our markets be. By providing the foundation for

compilation of credible financial statements, the accounting T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 135 profession facilitates market discipline, engenders confidence

among various stakeholders and reduces the possibility of

misleading information that can disrupt stability of financial

systems. Therefore, the need for quality assessments

particularly under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961.

49.4 In the public discourse on governance, we find that the

corporate governance agenda garners attention only during

times when the Country is faced with the most notorious

corporate scams. Shareholder democracy has come to stay and

Chartered Accountants are the gatekeepers of this new

corporate world which poses challenges as well as

unprecedented opportunities. Thus, the importance of integrity

of auditing functions for maintaining financial stability is now

well-recognised. 49.5 More importantly, Chartered Accountants must

themselves comply with the relevant laws and regulations and

avoid any conduct that discredits the profession. Needless to

specify that Chartered Accountants must refuse to represent

clients who insist on resorting to unfair means. Chartered T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 136 accountants are relevant not only in securing corporate

governance, but governance in broader contexts too.

49.6 Chartered Accountants face many different

responsibilities: to the profession; to the tax administration; to

the client and to the economy at large. In that context, we stress

on the importance of preserving their independence of view and

integrity; to separate their client-advisory role from their role

as public citizens seeking to improve the functioning of the tax

machinery of the Nation. Integrity, objectivity, professional

competence and due care and confidentiality must be the

doctrines guiding their work ethic. Conclusion: 50. In the circumstances, we dispose of the writ petitions in

the following manner: b) However, the said clause 6.0, Chapter VI of the

 Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 and its subsequent

 amendment is deemed not to be given effect to till

 01.04.2024. c) Consequently, all proceedings initiated pursuant

 to the impugned Guideline in respect of the writ

 petitioners and other similarly situated Chartered

 Accountants stand quashed. d) Liberty is reserved to the respondent-Institute to

 enhance the specified number of audits that a

 Chartered Accountant can undertake under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, if it deems fit. e) Liberty is also reserved to the writ petitioners or

 any other member of the respondent-Institute to

 make a representation in the above context which

 may be taken into consideration in the event

 respondent-Institute intends to amend the

 Guideline as per point No.(d) above. f) The writ petitions as well as all the transferred

 cases are disposed of in the aforesaid terms. T.C. (Civil) No.29 of 2021 Etc. 138 g) The Registry to intimate the concerned High

 Courts regarding disposal of the transferred cases

 accordingly.