On May 30, the Reserve Bank of India released its annual report detailing its newly conceptualized Lightweight Payments and Settlement System (LPSS). This payment system is meant to facilitate transactions in catastrophic events like natural calamities and wars.

Why it matters:

As per RBI’s claims, conventional payment systems (like the RTGS, NEFT, and UPI) perform high volumes of transactions and to do so they depend on complex wired networks backed by advanced IT infrastructure. Thus, during volatile situations, when the underlying information and communication infrastructure is disrupted they might not be able to function. This highlights the utility of a new payment system that can work independently of these conventional technologies.

What does Lightweight Payments and Settlement System entail:

RBI says that the LPSS system would operate on minimalistic hardware and software and would be made active only on a need basis. It says that LPSS would conduct transactions that are critical to economic stability, such as government and market transactions. It says this system would be operable from anywhere and require a bare minimum of staff to function.

While the report calls to attention the problem with existing systems, it gives very little detail on how the LPSS will work and when it can be expected.

How are existing payment systems performing:

RBI says that “ Having such a resilient system is also likely to act as a bunker equivalent in payment systems and thereby enhance public confidence in digital payments and financial market infrastructure even during extreme conditions.” But it is worth noting that existing payment systems have their fair share of issues.

Just this week, MP John Brittas pointed out how the Aadhar Enabled Payment System (AePS) is r ife with financial fraud because of factors like the proliferation of Aadhar numbers and the use of silicon fingerprints and unauthorized biometric devices by bad actors. Similarly, instances of fraud have also been reported with the UPI with UPI-related frauds contributing to 35 percent of the overall number of complaints reported on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (NCRP) in the second quarter of 2022.

What do people have to say about this new payment system?

“Bunker equivalent” – @RBI prepares for normalizing #InternetShutdowns and extreme authoritarian measures. Any amount of ‘innovation’ bypassing hurdles of dictatorial state can never work. #DigitalPayments https://t.co/Ty29ANZHFk

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event