Shri H. R. Sharma, the applicant herein, has filed this Original Application under Section 19 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 and prayed for the following reliefs:- 2.	At the admission stage on 16.09.2010, while issuing notice to the respondents, they were directed not to proceed further in the inquiry. 3.	Brief facts of the case would reveal that the applicant while posted as Senior Accounts Officer (Group-B) in Housing Accounts Wing, Vikas Sadan, INA was issued a Memo dated 03.02.2004 (Annexure-A2) on the allegation that he had recommended one case to charge all cost of the flat allotted by the competent authority way back in the year 1998. The said memo was issued after a delay of 6 years. In response to this Memo, he filed representation dated 09.02.2004 (Annexure-A3) thereby requesting the respondents to allow him to inspect the relevant file. But his request was not considered by the respondents and he was only allowed to inspect irrelevant files. Being aggrieved by the same, he submitted another representation on 7.10.2004 (Annexure-A4) requesting the respondents to give him at least the relevant portion of the file so that he could submit his reply to the memo dated 3.02.2004. Vide Memo dated 10.01.2005 (Annexure-A5), the applicant was cautioned to be more careful in future while discharging his duties. Thereafter, the applicant was issued a charge sheet vide Memo dated 25.04.207 (Aneuxre-A1) for major penalty under Regulation 25 of the DDA Conduct, Disciplinary and Appeal Regulations, 1999. It is the case of the applicant that the charge memo dated April, 2007 would clearly show that the same would not constitute any misconduct. In fact, the applicant was issued the said charge sheet after about 9 years from the date of alleged incident just to harass him. He responded to the said Memo in May, 2007 itself and requested the respondents to allow him to inspect the file so that he could know the nature of allegations and the reasons for the same and also enable him to submit reply to the said charge memo. However, instead of allowing him to inspect the file, the respondents have appointed Inquiry Officer (IO) and Presenting Officer (PO) vide order dated 22.06.2007 (Annexure-A8). Thereafter, the respondents did not take any action whatsoever for long time and it is only in November, 2007 the applicant was directed in reference to another flat and on the same allegation to submit his explanation. No action whatsoever was taken in reference to aforesaid charge sheet. However, nothing was done in reference to the charge memo issued four years back. Finally, the applicant retired from service on attaining the age of superannuation on 31.03.2010. However, without giving any response to his various representations, the respondents kept pending the said charge memos. 4.	Shri M. K. Bhardwaj, learned counsel for the applicant while projecting innocence of the applicant in the matter, advanced the principal contention that the charge sheets have been highly belated as the incident took place in 1998-99 and all the charges were issued after 9 years. Shri Bhardwaj would further submit that the charges against the applicant were the same as had been levelled in several other cases against other employees of the DDA and in several such cases the Tribunal by its separate orders had quashed the charge sheets. The learned counsel would particularly refer to and rely on the orders of the Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal (Principal Bench) in (i) OA No.1570/2009 with the OA 1578/2009 ( Mohinder Kumar versus DDA & Ors ) decided on 9.9.2009, (ii) OA No.2415/2009 ( Krishan Murari versus The Lt. Governor, Delhi & Ors ) decided on 8.12.2009 and (iii) OA No.3745/2009 ( Shri Dinesh Kumar Minocha versus DDA and Others ) decided on 8.07.2010. The Charge Memo is still pending with the respondents and the same being alive, it is continuous cause of action and the principles of limitation cannot be attracted. He, therefore, submits that the OA is fit case to be allowed. 5.	Opposing the grounds taken by the applicant, the respondents have filed the reply affidavit. Repelling the plea taken on behalf of the applicant by his counsel that his case is fully covered by the decisions in Mohinder Kumars case (supra); Krishan Muraris case (supra) and Dinesh Kumar Minochas case, Shri Karunesh Tandon, learned counsel for the Respondents, would contend that the gravity of the matter and the time taken in making detailed investigation was adequate. The learned counsel would further impress on us that law of limitation would be attracted as the OA had been filed after three years from the date of issue of the charge memo. He submits that because of the misconduct of a group of employees of DDA in collusion with outsiders, loss of crores of rupees had been caused to the DDA. His contention is that the applicant has been found to be actively associated with the housing scam and 15 FIRs are still pending. Further, he would draw our attention to the orders in an earlier OA i.e. OA No.509/2010 decided by the Tribunal in the matters of Shri P. C. Jain versus The Delhi Development Authority and Others on 18.12.201, where while disposing of the OA the respondents were directed to finalise the proceedings within a stipulated time frame. The learned counsel would submit that these proceedings were still pending with the Inquiry Officer, and the order dated 02.04.2009 issued by clubbing all 10 charge sheets together would expedite the matter. Hence, he urges to dismiss the OA. 6.	Having heard the learned counsel, Shri M. K Bhardwaj and the learned counsel Shri Karunesh Tandon, we carefully perused the materials on record and the relied on judgments. 7.	With regard to the limitation issue raised by the respondents, we note that the OA would not be barred by limitation as even on the date of filing OA, the charge sheet has been persisting. The controversy for our consideration is in narrow compass. Whether delay in issue of the charge sheet vide impugned order is legally sustainable or not and whether the case is fully covered by the judgments of this Tribunal relied on by the applicant? 8.	At this stage, we may refer to three decisions of this Tribunal relied on by the counsel for the applicant and one judgment relied on by the counsel for the respondents. 9.	In Mohinder Kumars case (supra), the applicant was an Accountant in the DDA who had challenged the charge memorandum dated 25.4.2007 proposing disciplinary enquiry for the cause of action which arose in the years 19982000, as in the instant OA. After examining the case on merit, the Tribunal had not found the explanation regarding the delay on the part of the respondents in issuing the impugned charge memorandum. The charges were based on the alleged misconducts committed in the said housing scam in which besides the ongoing criminal proceedings, the charge sheet could only be issued after a detailed investigation. The Tribunal had decided that the respondents had not satisfactorily explained the long delay and the issuance of the impugned charge memo was viewed only as an effort to unsettle the settled matters. Besides, taking into consideration similar cases decided vide OA No.2166/2008 as well as OA No.202/2009, where the decisions of the Apex Court in M.B. Bijlani versus Union of India & Ors [JT 2006 (4) SC 469] and P.V. Mahadevan versus MD Tamil Nadu Housing Board [JT 2005 (7) SC 417] had been cited to bring home the fact that delayed action without adequate explanation prejudiced the concerned applicant. The Tribunal raised certain questions about the initiation of the proceedings at that stage as ultimately it would not be possible for the DDA to gain anything out of the proceedings and recover the funds from the allottees after such a long period. On the other hand, the effect of the disciplinary proceedings on the morale of the concerned employee and ultimately on his working was considered as being detriment to the Organization. With all these considerations, the impugned Charge Memos were quashed, with the clarification that nothing stated in the order would affect the criminal proceedings. 10.	In Shri Krishan Muraris case (supra), the applicant had challenged the charge memorandum dated 10.8.2009 relating to a similar cause of action during the years 1998-2000. In this case also recommendation for downward revision of the cost of a flat without the approval of the competent authority and in violation of the instructions and thereby causing a loss of `5.25 lakhs to the authority had been alleged. The Tribunal considered the explanation for the delay submitted by the respondents recounting the background of the housing scam which had rocked the news in the year 2000. It had also been stated that initially all the records had been seized by the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police and after investigation of the matter by them out of 119 cases, 48 cases had been returned to the DDA for fixing responsibility departmentally, out of which, 13 cases were identified in the year 2000 and 20 more in June 2006 and referred to the Vigilance Cell for further action. After detailed investigations, more than 70 charge sheets had been issued and the case of Shri Krishan Murari was said to be one of the 20 cases where initiation of major penalty proceedings was included. Taking into account these explanations, the Tribunal had found serious flaws in their explanations for the delay in initiation of the proceedings. Further, the Tribunal had also taken into account the decisions in the earlier OAs i.e. OA No.2525/2008 decided on 30.10.2009 in the matter of Ved Prakash versus DDA as well as OA No.829/2009 dated 12.10.2009 in the matter of R.P. Tripathi versus DDA and lastly OA No.1570/2009 with connected OA No.1578/2009 in the matter of Mohinder Kumar versus DDA . Taking into account the decisions in these OAs, it was observed that the Respondents explanation for the delay had not been found adequate by different Benches.	On these grounds, the Tribunal had not found any reason to take a different view than the one taken by the Tribunal in the aforesaid judgments and in particular in OA No. 1570/2009 with connected OA 1578/2009. Accordingly, the charge memorandum dated 10.8.2009 was quashed and set aside. 11. In Shri Dinesh Kumar Minochas case (supra) we found the facts of the case similar to those in Mohinder Kumar case (supra) as also in Krishan Muraris case (supra), and noting that in this case the charge memorandum was issued after nearly 9 years and the other Benches of the Tribunal did not find the explanation for delay advanced by the respondents convincing, allowed the OA and quashed the charge sheet. In the said order, it was noted that in Mohinder Kumars case (supra) Tribunal expressed serious reservation about any net gain coming from the initiation of these proceedings after an inordinately long time to the Organization itself; on the other hand it was viewed as being in detriment to its functioning. It had also been observed that in case the DDA was really serious in the matter, they should have taken prompt action in all these cases. 12.	We may also advert to the judgment of this Tribunal relied on by the counsel for respondents in P. C. Jains case (supra). On a careful study of the relevant order dated 18.02.2011 placed before us, we note that this was a case in which the OA was found to be at the interlocutory stage and the explanation for delay given by the respondnets in the said OA was convincing. While noting that the case was not fit warranting judicial intervention the Tribunal disposed of the OA with direction to the respondents to complete the enquiry as well as decision of the Disciplinary Authority within a period of four months. Facts in this case being different from the instant OA, we distinguish the orders in P. C. Jains case (supra). 13.	Admittedly, the alleged incident took place during 1998-2000, the charges were framed in the disciplinary cases between 2008-2009, and the applicant retired on superannuation on 31.03.2010. Undoubtedly the time taken by the respondents to frame charges against the applicant has been more than 9 years which has deprived him his promotion. The explanation for delay given by the respondents was that the Crime Branch had registered cases concerning the housing scam and the applicant was one of the officers involved and the criminal proceedings were going on and the departmental charge sheets were issued after proper investigation. The question arises, how can DDA take such long period to issue charge sheet which does not reflect seriousness on the part of the authorities concerned? In similar cases involving the officials as part of the housing scam, the Tribunal has quashed the respective charge sheets and allowed the OAs. We have very thoughtfully analysed the charges in the impugned order. The applicant has taken the stand that there was no blameworthy conduct on his part. He obeyed the instructions of his seniors in the matter and the refunds were ordered by the superior authorities who were well aware of their action and such actions and transactions had been regularized by the competent authority. In the counter affidavit the respondents-DDA the delay has not been satisfactorily explained. It is also noted that the respondents have not taken a stand of having challenged any of the orders of the Tribunal relied on by the applicant. We also find no reasons to take a view different from the one taken by this Tribunal in three judgments referred to above . The present case, in our considered opinion, is covered in all fours by the orders of this Tribunal in Mahinder Kumars case (supra), Krishna Muraris case (supra) and Shri Dinesh Kumar Minochas case (supra). 14.	Taking into account the totality of facts and circumstances of the case and for the parity of reasons given in the judgments of the Tribunal referred to above , the Original Application is allowed. Resultantly, the impugned order dated 25.04.2007 is quashed and set aside. There shall, however, be no order as to costs.