1. The present suit has been instituted by the Plaintiff
against the Defendant for the following reliefs: Upon the Defendant joining the Plaintiff as an Associate
Consultant, he was imparted technical and business knowledge
concerning methods, processes, formulae, compositions,
systems, techniques, computer programs and customer lists,
pricing data, source of supply etc. during various training
sessions held by the Plaintiff Company for its employees. It is
averred that the said knowledge which was imparted to the
Defendant by the Plaintiff, is not available in the public domain.
The same is critical and vital for conducting the business of the
Plaintiff in the ordinary course. 3. It is the claim of the Plaintiff that it was made clear to the
Defendant that the knowledge imparted to him during the
training sessions is strictly proprietary, confidential and also
forms a part of their trade secrets. The Defendant had assured
that the said knowledge would be held in trust and confidence,
knowing the same to be confidential and proprietary to the
Plaintiff. He had also undertaken that the same shall not be
misused or disclosed to any third party even after
discontinuation of his employment with the Plaintiff. During
the course of his employment with the Plaintiff, the Defendant
was also sent on deputation/ on-site visit to customers of the
Plaintiff. On 03.09.2019, the Defendant No.1 had tendered his
formal resignation from the post of 'Associate Consultant'
through an Email. CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.3 of 27 4. It is claimed further that at the time of his resignation, the
Defendant had expressly represented, assured and promised the
Plaintiff that his next employment would not be with any of
Plaintiff Company's customers/ clients either directly or
indirectly and the business secrets and confidential information/
data of their client acquired/ learnt by him during his
employment tenure, shall be kept confidential and not be
divulged to any person/ organization. Accordingly, on the
aforesaid assurance, his resignation was accepted by the
Plaintiff and the Defendant was relieved from his services on
02.12.2019. It is stated that upon background verification by
one of the Plaintiff's customers i.e. Bharti Airtel on 12.12.2019,
the Company learnt that after the Defendant had left the
Plaintiff on 02.12.2019, pursuant to his resignation on
03.09.2019 he had joined Bharti Airtel Ltd, despite knowing
that it is one of the existing customers of the Plaintiff.
Defendant therefore violated the terms and conditions stipulated
in his appointment letter/ agreement and also committed breach
of the Non-Disclosure Agreement dated 02.12.2019. The fact
that the Defendant had joined one of its customers, Bharti
Airtel, was also confirmed by one of the deputed on-site
employees. 5. It is further averred that the Plaintiff Company had
developed and maintained confidential data and information
regarding internal processes, specific client profile, client
details, business strategy, methods, finances, client budget,

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.4 of 27
 pricing structure, upcoming projects, vendors business profiles
etc. The aforesaid confidential data had been developed over a
period of several years by putting in extensive efforts. The
Defendant, being the former employee of the Plaintiff, had
access to some of its secret and confidential data during the
course of the employment and the Defendant after resigning
from the service of the Plaintiff Company also took over some
important and confidential files, documents and records of the
Plaintiff, illegally using them for his own advantage. In this
background, the present suit has been filed against the
Defendant for the aforesaid reliefs. WRITTEN STATEMENT 6. Per Contra, it is stated that the suit ought to be dismissed
as it is barred by Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872
and the reliefs claimed are violative of the fundamental rights
of the Defendant under Articles 19 (1) (g) and 21 of the
Constitution of India. It is stated that the Plaintiff has failed to
plead or disclose the author of the alleged literary work or
disclose any particulars thereof, over which the Plaintiff can
assert any protection under any law. It is averred that the
pleadings in the plaint are highly vague and lack material in
particulars as no details of any alleged literary work have been
disclosed, access to which has been misused by the Defendant.
No trade secrets or confidential information have been
disclosed either, which are alleged to have been misused by the
Defendant. It is specifically stated that the Defendant was not

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.5 of 27
 privy to nor was provided any confidential information during
the course of his employment with the Plaintiff. The Defendant
was not given any business knowledge, formulae,
compositions, customers lists, pricing data, source of supply
etc. as alleged by the Plaintiff. 7. It is further claimed that the CRM tool, concerning which
the Defendant was imparted training is not a software owned
exclusively by the Plaintiff. The same is a proprietary
acquisition of the Oracle systems. The use of such tools owned
by Oracle is a standard training given by several companies to
its employees and cannot be considered to be a trade secret, on
which any propriety rights can be claimed by the Plaintiff. The
Defendant was only provided with the requisite training to use
the CRM tools. He was not provided with any information in
relation to business strategies, methods and finances, client
budget etc. The plaint is lacking in disclosure of such details as
well. 8. It is averred that Clause 8.5 of the 'General Service
Conditions' has no application in the facts and circumstances of
the present case as the same stipulates restrictions on taking up
employment opportunities with its competitors or customers
only when the services of an employee are terminated. In the
present case, the Defendant has willfully resigned from the
Plaintiff Company and had also served his notice period as
mandated under Clause 8.2. The Defendant was associated with

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.6 of 27
 the Plaintiff Company for a period of over one year in the
position of an Associate Consultant which is mild-level
employment position in the business chain of the Plaintiff
Company. The present suit has been filed on false and baseless
allegations, without considering the scope of work and
associated responsibilities assigned to the Defendant during his
tenure with the Plaintiff Company. It is stated that after getting
a confirmation of an unconditional/unequivocal release from
employment under the Plaintiff Company, the Defendant joined
the employment of M/s Bharti Airtel. He was given a respectful
exit. The Plaintiff has solely based its claim on Clause 8.5 of
the Appointment Letter, which per se is void ab-initio. 9. Defendant was mandatorily required to sign the said
Non-Disclosure Agreement failing which he would not have
been provided with a relieving letter. It is highlighted in defence
that even the said Agreement was vague, failing to disclose any
information allegedly given to the Defendant during his
employment and meant to be kept confidential. It is further
stated that the Clause 8.5 of the 'General Service Conditions',
on which the Plaintiff has based its case for injunction against
the Defendant from providing services to Bharti Airtel, is itself
void under Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act. It is averred
that the Defendant joined M/s Bharti Airtel on 03.12.2019 after
being duly relieved from his employment with the Plaintiff
Company. CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.7 of 27
 ISSUES 10. The Ld. Predecessor vide Order dated 27.09.2021 had
framed the following issues: 11. The Plaintiff examined its Authorised Representative Mr.
Manish Bhakhoo as PW1, who deposed on the strength of his
affidavit Ex. PW1/A tendering in evidence, inter-alia, copy of
offer letter dated 31.08.2018 [Mark B (colly)], e-mails dated
10.10.2019 and 03.09.2019 [Ex.PW1/2 (colly)], Non-
Disclosure Agreement (Ex.PW1/3), Email Dated
acourt2903.01.2020 (Ex.PW1/4), Office Copy of Legal Notice
Dated 06.01.2020 (Mark C) and Affidavit cum Certificate under Section 65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act (Ex. PW1/6). 12. In his cross examination by the Ld. Counsel for the
Defendant, the witness stated that he did not have any personal
knowledge about the Defendant's engagement with the Plaintiff
Company and what was done during his tenure. He stated that
the Defendant had been imparted training by the senior
consultant of the Plaintiff Company whose name he did not
CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.8 of 27
 know. He acknowledged that there was no document on record
as could confirm the claim that the Defendant was imparted
knowledge on various forms of techniques and business,
including but not limited to methods, processes, formulae,
compositions, systems and computer programmes or that he had
access to customer list, pricing data, source of supply of the
Plaintiff Company. When asked if all the information
concerning the alleged training imparted to the Defendant, was
in already in the public domain, available on portals such as
Google, leaving no need for the Defendant to specifically
approach the Plaintiff for the same, the witness stated that he
was not aware, as this was not his area of expertise. He could
also not say if the same was available in the public domain as
suggested. As regards the claim of the Plaintiff that the
knowledge imparted to the Defendant during training being
proprietary and confidential, was duly informed to the
Defendant, the witness drew attention to the Non-Disclosure
Agreement in support in response, which was mentioned to
have been signed on 02.12.2019. 13. He further explained that the details of the information
had not been filed on record, since the same were confidential.
The Defendant gave his resignation on 03.09.2019 and his last
day was 02.12.2019. After a few days, he claimed that the
Plaintiff came to know from one of its deputed on site
employees that the Defendant had joined another Company.
They had also received a background verification call

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.9 of 27
 concerning the same. He further admitted that the Defendant
had not collaborated / worked with any client of the Plaintiff,
other than Bharti Airtel and also that one year period of
employment under the contract inter-se the Plaintiff and the
Defendant had also expired. The witness was asked to state as
to during the period from December 2019 till 2022, what
information of the Plaintiff Company according to him had
been divulged by the Defendant. The witness stated that the
information so divulged included (but was not limited to) that
pertaining to pricing, upcoming projects, Plaintiff's clients and
customers list, technical strategies /knowledge provided by the
Plaintiff's team. He could not refer to any specific document on
record as could show the information as claimed by him to have
been divulged by the Defendant or that the Plaintiff had
suffered losses due to such divulging of information illegally.
The witness could not confirm if the tools/ software design for
the customers of the Plaintiff Company were specific only to
that customer or could have been generally used. 14. He could not say if the CRM Tool had been developed by
the Plaintiff itself for record keeping. When asked about any
action taken by the Plaintiff against the Defendant after it learnt
that the Defendant had joined the Bharti Airtel, the witness
stated that their HR team had confronted him, inter-alia,
through telephonic calls asking him to quit and join the Plaintiff
back. A violation letter was also issued in December 2019. The
witness admitted that the Defendant had been given an

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.10 of 27
 honorable discharge at the time he quit his employment with the
Plaintiff. At the time of acceptance of the relieving letter from
the Defendant, no allegations had been made against him by the
Plaintiff. The witness was specifically asked as to what was the
basis for him to claim that the Defendant had illegally used the
alleged information passed on to him to his advantage. He
stated that ever since he had joined the Bharti Airtel, the
resources required to be provided by Plaintiff for their project
had reduced, affecting their billing, which had also gone down
and they suffered losses. He stated that no complaint was filed
on record pertaining to the alleged illegal retention of important
and confidential files, documents and records by the Defendant,
in breach of the terms and conditions of his appointment letter.
The witness was asked to state as to what was the basis of the
claim of the Plaintiff that the Defendant had acted negligently
and in irresponsible manner prejudicing the security of
confidential data of the Plaintiff Company. He deposed that the
Defendant had joined Bharti Airtel and had divulged crucial
information to their prejudice. Despite being confronted about
the same, he continued to remain associated with Bharti Airtel
and acted negligently, as even at the time of exit formalities,
their HR Team had apprised the Defendant of the restrictions
against divulging the information to third parties. DEFENDANT EVIDENCE 15. The Defendant deposed as DW1 on the basis of his
evidence affidavit, tendering in evidence his Conduct

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.11 of 27
 Certificate dated 27.12.2019 (Ex.DW1/1), and relieving letter
dated 27.12.2019 (Ex.DW1/2). The witness was cross examined
by the Ld. Counsel for Defendant. He stated that he had joined
the Plaintiff on 03.09.2018. He affirmed that training sessions
were held at the Plaintiff Company at the time of his joining as
Associate Consultant. 16. When asked about CRM tools, the witness stated that it is
a customer relationship management software which helps
process the customer-based data as per business requirements.
He stated that during his tenure under the Plaintiff, he was only
deputed in Bharti Airtel and that when deputed there he was
using Siebel CRM tools. He denied the suggestion that while
using the CRM tools, he had been given access to customer
data. The witness further stated the usage of CRM tools was in
line with the business requirements shared by the Airtel team.
He stated that Bharti Airtel team had given him individual
access to the CRM tools through separate user ID and password
and after logging in through the said particulars, he would
operate on the same on the basis of business requirements
shared. The witness was asked as to whether at the time of
signing the NDA, the HR manager of the Plaintiff briefed him
on what information was confidential and what was not. The
witness responded in the negative. He stated that he was not
aware if the Plaintiff Company had a license of a CRM
Software of the Oracle System. CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.12 of 27
 APPRAISAL & FINDINGS 17. Final arguments were heard threadbare. The record has
been carefully perused. 18. The Plaintiff has instituted the instant suit against the
Defendant, its ex-employee, for the afore-mentioned reliefs, on
the claim of the latter having, upon exiting from employment
with the Plaintiff, violated the terms and conditions regulating
his association with the latter (Mark B colly), particularly
Clause 8.5 thereof, as well as the conditions under the
Employee Confidentiality and Non Disclosure Agreement dated
2.12.2019 (Ex PW1/3), duly executed and signed by the
Defendant at the time of completion of his exit formalities with
the Plaintiff. The cause of action is stated to have arisen in the
above light in favour of the Plaintiff, when the Defendant in
breach of the Clause 8.5 of the Terms of Employment, having
tendered his resignation with the Plaintiff on 3.9.2019,
proceeded to join one of the customers of the Plaintiff i.e. M/s
Bharti Airtel Ltd., a fact learnt on 12.12.2019, prior to
completion of one year as per the requirements of the aforesaid
Clause and on account of he having failed to comply with the
mandate of the Non-Disclosure Agreement and having misused
confidential information and data, to which he attained access
during his tenure with the Plaintiff, by passing it off, to utmost
loss for and prejudice to the Plaintiff. 19. The Defendant has, on the other hand, questioned the
very maintainability of the suit and the veracity of the claims on

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.13 of 27
 multifarious grounds. The Defendant claims he had joined the
Plaintiff Company as an Associate Consultant on 3.9.2018, with
no fixed period of engagement agreed upon. He further states
that no confidential information or data was either passed onto
him, nor was any piece of information shared by him further in
breach of employment terms, refuting the allegations of the
Plaintiff. The Defendant has raised objections over the aforesaid
allegations highlighting that they are not only baseless, but also
noticeably couched in absolutely vague terms in the plaint. It is
further asserted in defence that the Clause 8.5 of the General
Terms and Conditions and the reliefs sought on the basis of it,
are even otherwise in the teeth of Section 27 of the Indian
Contract Act, 1872, rendering them void and non-est as seeking
virtually to infringe upon the fundamental rights of the
Defendant. 20. For the sake of ready reference and in order to
understand the import of the specific terms of employment
under the 'Cubastion General Service Conditions', made a part
and parcel of the Appointment Letter dated 31.8.2018 issued by
the Plaintiff to the Defendant (Mark B Colly) and under the
Employee Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement (Ex
PW1/3), the relevant service conditions are reproduced
hereunder: b. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. c. Prohibition on Disclosure or Use of Inside
 Information. d. Default User Rights on Cubastion Network. 8.Separation from the Company
 8.1 In the normal course, you will retire from the
 Company at the age of 58 years. 8.2 At the time of formally resign from the service
 of the Company you shall serve the 90 days" notice
 period. 8.3 When you formally resign from the service of
 the Company, the Company may at its discretion,
 permit you to. Adjust the vacation accumulated
 toward part of the notice period pay up for the notice
 period in lieu thereof. 8.4 Your service are liable to be terminated
 immediately without any notice if in the opinion of
 company, you are found guilty of breach of any of the
 above clause, insubordination, insolence, gross

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.16 of 27
 negligence of duty, dishonesty or embezzlement or
 accepting gratification or contravention of integrity
 policy of the Company. 8.5 For a period of one year following the
 termination of your employment, for whatever
 reason, you will not directly or indirectly, solicit
 business from, offer to provide service to, or do
 business with, any customer to whom Cubastion has
 provided services (or made a written proposal to
 provide services to). 8.6 On the date of termination of your employment
 or at any time during the immediately preceding six-
 month period you shall not attempt, either directly or
 indirectly, to induce or influence any other employee
 of Cubastion to leave Cubastion employment. (emphasis supplied)
 EMPLOYEE CONFIDENTIALITY AND NON- DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT
Confidentiality
 That during the course of my employment there may
 be disclosed to me certain trade secrets of the
 Company and its clients; said trade secrets consisting
 but not necessarily limited to: 22. The law on pleadings under the Code of Civil Procedure ,
1908, under Order VI Rule 2, 4 CPC and Order VII Rule 1(e ) CPC , requires the Plaintiff to clearly set out/ make complete
disclosure of all the necessary facts and material particulars, as
clearly constituting an identifiable cause of action for the lis.
The purpose of such specific disclosure at the outset was
discussed by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Navigators
Logistics Ltd. v Kashif Qureshi and Ors. [ CS (COMM ).
735/2016 decided on 17.9.2018] wherein it was observed that
"the whole purpose of pleadings in a civil suit is to let the
opponent know the case to be met and which crystallizes
ultimately in issues on which the parties go to trial". The
Hon'ble High Court went further to discuss that if the said rules
were not adhered in pleadings, it would result in a 'fishing and
roving enquiry'. The onus in the present suit, rightly cast on the
Plaintiff, in view of Section 103 of the Indian Evidence Act, to
prove the allegations levelled against the Defendant of
committing violation of the restraint clause (i.e. Clause 8.5) and
of the confidentiality terms, by wrongful retention of

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.20 of 27
 information/ data/ records and passing it off to its customer and
others, required the Plaintiff to clearly spell out the information/
confidential data or trade secrets that the Plaintiff had
developed over time, to which the Defendant had become privy
during the course of his employment. This special knowledge/
access to a specialized technical know-how concerning CRM
Tool, processes, formulae, systems, techniques or protocol or
programs was required to be disclosed and established first,
before the Plaintiff could have asserted its case of any leak/
passing off as alleged. 23. The Plaintiff through the averments in the plaint has
claimed that during the tenure of the Defendant with the
Company, he was imparted 'various technical and business
knowledge including but not limited to methods, processes,
formulae etc'. during various training sessions held by the
Plaintiff for its employees and that the knowledge so acquired
by the Defendant was strictly proprietary, confidential and a
trade secret for the Plaintiff, which he had undertaken not to
divulge. It has been further averred that the Defendant had
'illegally retained' important and confidential files, documents
and records of the Plaintiff Company' and had been offering the
development and management of CRM tools at the same or
even lower pricing. The Plaintiff has also pleaded that it has
over time developed and maintained confidential information,
data, internal processes, methods, finances, client budget,
pricing structure, etc. claiming exclusivity of access thereto, to

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.21 of 27
 some of which data/ knowledge, even the Defendant, as an ex-
employee had gained access during his employment. These
averments as in paragraph numbers 4, 5 ,11 and 12 of the plaint,
when read conjointly, reveal that the pleadings are ex-facie
vaguely worded, bereft of any specific details of processes,
methods, or knowledge of expertise, which the Defendant was
made privy to, during his association and training under the
Plaintiff, which he ought not to have passed on. The pleadings
are couched in absolute vague terms, with there being,
conspicuously, no specific averments with respect to any
specific data/ knowledge/ tehnical know-how having been
unauthorizedly shared with the customer of the Plaintiff/
successive employer of the Defendant i.e. M/s Bharti Airtel Pvt.
Ltd. or Ors. 24. Even during cross examination of the witness for the
Plaintiff (PW1), the deponent could come up with no specific
details of either the training claimed to have been imparted to
the Defendant or the special knowledge derived, as furthered
unlawfully, occasioning prejudice to the financial and
commercial interests of the Plaintiff. There is an evasive
reference to the Non-Disclosure Agreement, with no other
document shown as filed, to support the claim that the
Defendant was having access to proprietary information such as
customer lists, pricing data, source of supply, compositions,
formulae, systems, techniques etc. It is noteworthy, that the
witness also failed to specifically deny the suggestion to the

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.22 of 27
 effect that the training imparted to the Defendant by the
Plaintiff Company concerned information, which was already
available in the public domain. 25. The witness PW1 was specifically asked during his cross
examination by the Ld. Counsel for Defendant as to what
information was divulged by the Defendant in the period of
December 2019 till 2022, to which the witness responded
referring to information concerning pricing, upcoming projects,
Plaintiff's clients and customer lists. He vaguely referred to
technical strategies and technical coding for software
development, et al in response. The Plaintiff has failed to
discharge its onus by establishing as to what were the
confidential processes/protocols which were shared with the
Defendant concerning software development etc. which were
illegally passed on by him to rival entities/ customer as alleged.
The data referred to vaguely in response as noted above does
not qualify to be a 'trade secret' even otherwise. Due to lack of
specifics, despite being asked to disclose the details of the
alleged confidential information/ data during cross examination,
it is clear, that the Plaintiff has set out a case, deficient in
stipulation of material facts, constituting a valid cause of action
in its favour. In Star India Pvt. Ltd. v Laxmiraj Seetharam
Nayak [ 2003 SCC OnLine Bom 27] , the Hon'ble High Court
observed that 'everyone in any employment for some period
would know certain facts and would get to know some
information without any special effort; all such persons cannot

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.23 of 27
 be said to know trade secrets or confidential information and
that every opinion or general knowledge of facts cannot be
labelled as trade secrets or confidential information'. It has
been held that 'if such items are called as trade secrets, or
secret, the term would lose its meaning and significance'. The
data alleged to have been illegally withheld and misused herein,
also does not qualify to be a 'trade-secret' in the above terms,
on which customers/ entities in competition could have
encashed/ capitalized upon. 26. As regards the restraining covenant under Clause 8.5 of
the Employment terms and the prohibition thereunder for a
period of one year "following the termination" of employment,
from indulging in direct or indirect solicitation of business with
any customer of Cubastion, the said term, although not
applicable in the present situation as stemming from a voluntary
resignation (duly accepted), as opposed to termination, is even
otherwise violative of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act,
1872. A joint reading of the legal precedents in Superintendence Company of India (P) Ltd. v Krishan
Murgai [ MANU / SC/ 0457/1980] and Percept D' Mark
(India) P. Ltd. v. Zaheer Khan [ MANU / SC 1412/2006] ,
reveals the well settled law on the subject, as per which, a
restrictive clause in an employment contract can at best apply in
a case where the employment is a for a fixed period and the
same (or the notice period) has not been undergone, as opposed
to a situation, where there has been a proper relieving from

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.24 of 27
 employment, and the notice period too has expired, as in the
present case. In the present facts and circumstances, the
Defendant had never contracted for a fixed tenure employment
with the Plaintiff, and therefore the restriction beyond the notice
period, for a year post relieving from employment, is in direct
conflict of the mandate of Section 27 of the Indian Contract
Act, 1872 [reference : Navigators Logistics Ltd. (Supra)].
Needless to say, the Clause 8.5, even otherwise, on its bare
reading, could not have been invoked in the very first place, as
restraining the Defendant's subsequent employment prospects,
given the fact, that if read in the ejusdem generis spirit, in
continuation with the previous recital i.e. Clause 8.4 also
touching upon 'the eventuality of termination', the aforesaid
Clause 8.5 could at best apply to a case of 'termination' and not
'resignation', notwithstanding it being void as in teeth of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, as above discussed. 27. The Plaintiff has also claimed that the Defendant had
illegally retained certain records/ documents/ files concerning
software/ tools etc., prone to misuse. There are no specific
details disclosed to substantiate the said allegation in the plaint
or the evidence led either. The Certificate and the Relieving
Letter (Ex DW1/1 and Ex DW1/2 respectively) on the other
hand suggest, as also confirmed by PW1, that the Defendant
had been given an honorable discharge from employment. Such
certification of effective contribution to the employer, with no

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.25 of 27
 complaint lodged as brought on record to suggest illegal
retention of records, negates the said claim as well. 28. It is further imperative to note that the Non-Disclosure
Agreement (Ex PW1/3) makes a mention of a possibility of
disclosure of trade secrets to an employee, as it makes the use
of a word 'may' as opposed to something that would indicate it
to be a norm in practice. The Plaintiff has failed to spell out as
to what trade secrets were shared with the Defendant and as to
how the Agreement stood violated by him. The allegations have
clearly, for the aforesaid reasons, gone unexplained,
uncorroborated and unsubstantiated. Therefore, no merit is
found in the case put forth by the Plaintiff. ISSUE-WISE FINDINGS : 29. Accordingly, for the above discussed reasons, following
are the issue-wise findings in the lis: 30. Accordingly, for the above discussed reasons in the facts
and circumstances of the case, the suit of the Plaintiff stands
hereby dismissed. 31. Decree sheet be prepared and file be consigned to Record
Room as per Rules. (Pronounced in the open court
on 28.03.2023)
 (Shriya Agrawal)
 JSCC cum ASCJ cum GJ
 South East District/Saket Courts

CS SCJ 254/20 Cubastion Consulting Pvt Ltd Vs Shubham Saxena Page no.27 of 27