(Order of the Court was made by SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J)

	The present writ petition is for a writ of mandamus directing the respondent state to make a scheme for registering all the marriages conducted so far and hereinafter, to record and catalogue the same, and also to declare their medical certificate of fitness as compulsory, for all the prospective registrations. 2. The petitioner is a lawyer. He has given a representation dated 22.01.2018, to the Chief Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu, Secretariat, Fort St. George, Chennai, relevant portion of the representation read as under:- 3. The writ petition has been filed for the reason that, the representation of the petitioner, has not been considered. The writ petition is nothing but a reproduction of the representation. 4. The prayer of the writ petitioner can be broken into two parts. The first part of the prayer is for making a scheme for registering all the marriages conducted so far and hereinafter. The second part of the prayer is for a direction to declare that a medical certificate of fitness is compulsory for all the prospective registrations. 5. Laws relating to the Marriage of a Hindu, Christian and Parsi are codified under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 , the Parsi Marriage & Divorce Act, 1936 respectively. Law of Marriage relating to Jews & Muslims are not codified. 6. The prayer sought for by the petitioner will apply all the marriages, irrespective of the religion. The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 , which applies to Hindu, Buddhist, Jains or Sikhs does not make registration of marriages compulsory. The registration of marriages under Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 , is governed by Section 8 of the Act. Section 8 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, reads as under:- 7. Section 8 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, therefore makes registration of marriage only optional. 8. Sections 30 , 31 and 33 of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872, which deal with registration of marriage under the Christian Marriage Act,1872 reads as under:- 9. There is no provision under the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 , which makes it obligatory that the party to such marriage, should have the particulars relating to the marriage entered into, in a register maintained by a authority specified in the Act. The Act does not give power to the State Government to make rules providing that the parties to such marriage should have the particulars / details of the marriage to be entered in the marriage register to be maintained by the State for that purpose. 10. Marriages of Parsis are governed by the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936 . Section 6 of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936, provides for registration of marriages under the Parsi Marriage Act . Section 6 of the Act, is extracted hereunder:- Under the Parsi Marriage Act , the priest issues a certificate which is signed by the parties and two witnesses to the marriage and the priest sends the certificate to the Registrar approved under the Act for registration. 11. As stated earlier, there is no codified law, regulating / governing the marriages of Muslim and Jews. Apart from this personal law, Special Marriage Act 1954 has been enacted for marriages to be solemnized under the Special Marriage Act , between individuals belonging to different religions. Sections 15 and 16 of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, governs the provisions of registration for marriages under the Special Marriage Act . They read as under:- 12. The Court cannot issue a Mandamus to the authorities to keep a register of Marriages, for all the religions. 13. Though the respective enactments governing the marriages for different religions have been made under the powers in list-III of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution of India, it is for the State Government to make appropriate legislation for this purpose. What the petitioner is seeking for, is legislation by the Court which will apply to all the marriages, governed by the respective Acts and also to such marriages, which are not yet codified. 14. It is a well settled proposition of law that the Court can neither legislate nor issue a direction to the legislature to enact legislation, in a particular manner. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of V.K.Naswa vs. Union of India reported in 2012 (2) SCC 542 observed as under:- 15. There are several other judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterating the same principle and they are not repeated. 16. The second portion of the prayer, for a declaration that the medical certificate of fitness registration is compulsory, for all the prospective registration, also cannot be granted. Such an order would be directly opposed to right of privacy. 17. It is now well settled that the right of privacy is enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, and Court cannot issue a Mandamus, which would encroach upon the fundamental right of an individual. An individual's fundamental right of dignity and privacy, cannot sought to be violated by writ Court. 18. It is well settled that the individual is the focal part of the Constitution of India because it is in realisation of the individual's rights that the collective well being of a community is determined. Right of Privacy is the foundation of all liberty. Individual dignity and privacy are inexplicably linked. Privacy eminently qualifies as an inevitable natural right, intimately connecting two values, whose protection is a matter of Universal and Moral dignity. 19.The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mr. X vs. Hospital Z , reported in (1998) 8 SCC 296, while dealing with an issue as to whether a doctor could divulge information regarding a patient that he was suffering from HIV, it was observed as under:- 20. A person cannot be forced to divulge a disease that he is having, in public domain. If a person is forced to give a medical certificate, at the time of registration of his marriage, it will an amount to announcing the entire world at large, and against the right of privacy. 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of K.S.Puttaswamy vs. Union of India reported in 2017 (10) SCC 1 has observed para 107,108,119,298,309,310,319 as under:- 22. It is very strange that the prayer of the petitioner is to give a medical certificate, at the time of registration of marriage, which is after marriage and not before. There is no public interest to compel a person to reveal his ailments, in a medical certificate after the marriage has taken place. The problem which the petitioner highlighting is about non-disclosure of the disease, prior to the marriage, whereas disclosure, which is now sought for, is after the marriage. Dignity of a person cannot be compromised and a person cannot be forced to reveal the details of his health in public domain. 23. The writ petition cannot said to be in a public interest. Accordingly, writ petition is dismissed. No Costs. (S.M.K., J.) (S.P., J.)

 07.09.2018 

Index		: Yes / No

Internet	: Yes / No

dm

To 1.Chief Secretary,
 State of Tamilnadu,
 Secretariat, Fort St. George, Chennai-109. 2.The Secretary,
 Department of Registration,
 Government of Tamilnadu,
 Secretariat, Fort St.George, Chennai-109. 3.The Union of India,
 Represented by its Chief Secretary,
 Raisina Hill, New Delhi. S.MANIKUMAR,J. and
SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. dm/gsp W.P.No.2839 of 2018 07.09.2018