The prayer in the present petition under Section 482 BNSS,

 2023 is for the grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case FIR

 No.16 dated 14.05.2025 (Annexure P-1) registered under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC at Police Station NRI, District Amritsar. 2. The present FIR came to be registered at the instance of

 Gurpreet Singh and the same reads as under:- 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the

 petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case. He has attested

 the power of attorney dated 27.07.2021 only on account of the fact that

 he was working as a Helper in the immigration agency run by co-accused

 Amarbir Singh, the brother of the present complainant. As he is ready

 and willing to join investigation, he is entitled to the concession of

 anticipatory bail. 4. On the other hand, the learned State counsel along with

 learned counsel for the complainant while referring to the reply dated

 12.09.2025 contend that the petitioner was an attesting witness to the

 forged power of attorney in favour of the accused-Palwinder Singh. The

 petitioner being an employee of Amarbir Singh, the brother-in-law of the

 complainant, was well aware of the identity of the petitioner but

 deliberately identified another person as the complainant. Later,

 Palwinder Singh sold the plot in question to Navjot Singh and this sale

 deed was attested by Amarbir Singh and Harish Kumar. Thereafter,

 Navjot Singh has further sold the plot to Hardev Singh and Gurdev

 Singh. They contend that as the offences are prima facie made out and

 the petitioner is required to disclose the identity of the impersonator who

 impersonated the complainant, his custodial interrogation is certainly

 necessary and therefore, he is not entitled to the concession of

 anticipatory bail and the present petition is liable to be dismissed. KUSUM 2025.11.18 09:36 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document PHHC Chandigarh CRM-M-50120-2025 -5- 5. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties. 6. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumitha Pradeep

 Vs. Arun Kumar C.K. & Anr. 2022 Live Law (SC) 870 held that merely

 because custodial interrogation was not required by itself could not be a

 ground to grant anticipatory bail. The first and the foremost thing the

 Court hearing the anticipatory bail application is to consider is the prima

 facie case against the accused. The relevant extract of the judgment is

 reproduced hereinbelow:- 7. A perusal of the evidence collected so far would show that

 Amarbir Singh, brother-in-law of the complainant got prepared a forged

 power of attorney dated 27.07.2021 purportedly executed by the

 complainant in favour of the one Navjot Singh. The petitioner is an

 attesting witness to the said forged power of attorney. He being an

 employee of Amarbir Singh was well aware of the identity of the

 complainant but has wrongly identified some other person as the KUSUM 2025.11.18 09:36 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document PHHC Chandigarh CRM-M-50120-2025 -7- complainant. During the pendency of the present petition, the petitioner

 was directed to join investigation and disclose the identity to the

 impersonator, who executed the power of attorney in favour of the

 accused-Palwinder Singh. However, he has refused to do so. Apparently,

 the petitioner is not cooperating with the Investigating Agency. As the

 offences stand prima facie established and the investigation is to be taken

 to its logical conclusion, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is

 certainly required. 8. In view of the aforementioned discussion, I find no merit in

 the present petition. Therefore, the same stands dismissed. 9. However, the observations made hereinabove are only for

 the purposes of deciding this bail petition and the Trial Court is free to

 adjudicate upon the matter on the basis of the evidence led before it

 uninfluenced by any such observations made herein. (JASJIT SINGH BEDI)
 JUDGE
 17.11.2025
 Kusum
 Whether speaking/reasoned:- Yes/No
 Whether reportable:- Yes/No KUSUM 2025.11.18 09:36 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document PHHC Chandigarh