What’s the news: While answering questions in the Lok Sabha on April 5, 2023, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) confirmed that there is no provision to deactivate the Aadhaar numbers of deceased persons. While the reason appears to stem from procedural issues, the government’s answer raises concerns about potential identity theft and data discrepancies.

No mechanism to find deceased person’s Aadhaar: In their reply to the questions raised by MP advocate Adoor Prakash, the Ministry said, “At present, there is no mechanism to receive the Aadhaar number of deceased persons from the Registrars appointed by State Governments under the provisions of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, for the registration of births and deaths, to deactivate Aadhaar.”

More clarification required from the government: Far from answering any questions, the government’s statement raises further queries like—What happens to the Aadhaar number of the deceased persons? What does the government do with this data? For how long is this data retained?

Also, what happens in terms of subsidy schemes? For example, if a farmer dies and his Aadhaar number remains active, will his account continue to receive subsidies via schemes like PM-KISAN?

Can Aadhaar numbers be used as fake identities? At various places in India, be it airports or government institutions, Aadhaar is used as an identity document. If a person’s Aadhaar number remains active even after death, what measures has the government taken to ensure there is no possibility of identity theft? If a foreigner wants to masquerade as an Indian citizen, can they get a deceased person’s Aadhaar number and pretend to be Indian?

MeitY estimates around 130 crore live Aadhaars: As per MeitY’s statement, the Unique Identification Authority of India does not know the identity of deceased persons in India. However, it said that by February 28, 2023 “the estimated number of living Aadhaar number holders is 130.2 crore” after “adjusting for the estimated number of deaths”. The government even provided state-specific and Union-territory-wise data on the number of deaths.

Still, where did the government get the estimated number of deaths? More importantly, what period of time does this data pertain to? Did six crore people die in the last five years? Were these deaths estimated after Covid-19? Did six crore people die since the beginning of time in India? More clarity is required in this regard.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event