Google and AdMob Acquisition

Given that Google is buying AdMob Inc for $750 miilion using its stock, the company has stated that it plans to buy back Google shares to avoid diluting investors’ holdings. It would be the first time Google will be buying back shares. However, given Google’s growth and dominance of the Internet business, and that the AdMob-Google combine will have around 30-40% of the mobile advertising market, we wonder why any investor will want to sell Google shares. More from Google CEO Eric Schmidt at Bloomberg

More on the acquisition: — Google To Buy AdMob For $750M; The Display Play; In India

Pancham Endlaw Is Country Manager for TZ Mobile.

TZ Mobile Pvt Ltd, a JV between Spain’s mobile content firm Zed and Tanla Solutions , has hired Pancham Endlaw as country manager. Prior to this, Endlaw was VP for digital and interactive at INX Media and has also worked at Airtel and Indiatimes. (Read  more at contentSutra ) Saankhya Labs’ SDR TV Demodulation IC

Saankhya Labs , a chip startup based in India, has announced its Universal TV demodulator IC, based on Software Defined Radio (SDR) architecture, targeted at World TV and PC-TV receiver markets.The product is named Pruthvi and is the first demodulation IC to enable Global TV Chassis, the company has claimed. The product prototype is ready and has been demonstrated to 6 major TV companies in Japan. Pruthvi reduces the bill-of-materials cost of TV chassis by supporting multiple standards on a single chip, reducing costs by limiting designs to be manufactured to one. (Read more at EE Times )

Murdoch Sites Aggregate Content From Others Too

Rupert Murdoch, Chairman & MD, News Corporation , plans to block Google from indexing stories from newspapers in his media empire after enacting  plans to charge people for their content on the internet. But it seems that News Corporation including the Wall Street Journal quite similar to Google aggregates content from other websites too. (Read more at techdirt )

SEBI bars Pyramid Saimira for 7 Years

SEBI has barred Pyramid Saimira from dealing in the securities market for seven years for alloting 98.5 percent of the shares under the employee quota to seven non-employees during its IPO in December 2006. (Read more at Reuters )

Retweet Removed For Repairs

It seems that the Retweet button that was being beta tested by Twitter has been removed now. The new feature dispalys the icon of the original author when a user retweets and one can no longer comment on an automatic retweet. (Read more at NWA & Tech Crunch )

HP To Acquire 3Com For $2.7 billion

HP is set to purcahse 3Com at a price of  $7.90 per share in cash or an enterprise value of approximately $2.7 billion. The acquisition of 3Com will expand HP’s Ethernet switching offerings, add routing solutions and strengthen the company’s position in China.The transaction is expected to close in the first half of calendar 2010. ( Release )

Barkah Dutt Gets ‘barkhadutt.com’

Barkha Dutt  has won an internet domain dispute at the World Intellectual Property Organisation against a Hyderabad-based cybersquatter-easyticket, Kapavarapu, who had been using the  domain name ‘barkhadutt.com’, registered on January 8, 2007. (Read more at PTI )

Also read the detailed WIPO Decision

Increase FDI In FM: I&B Ministry

The Ministry of I&B has issued a cabinet note on the FM radio sector, recommending an increase in FDI cap to 26% from the current 20%. The third phase of FM Radio licensing is expected to happen by early 2010 and by then these modifications in policy are expected to come through, said Ambika Soni, I&B Minister.  (Read more at contentSutra )

Educational Institutes Must Have Websites

The Government of India plans to make it mandatory for having a website for educational institutions, where the school’s infrastructure facilities and faculty will have to be spelt out.  (Read more at iGovernment )

India High On Symantec’s Phishing List

According to Symantec’s Phishing Report for November 2009 , there was a 17 per cent increase in all phishing attacks from the previous month. Symantec observed a 45 percent increase from the previous month in non-English phishing sites. In October 2009, India stood fourth in terms of the country where largest number of spam originated. In October 2009, spam levels hit a maximum of 93 percent, and averaged at 87 percent of all email messages. India contributed significantly to the rise  in the  Asia Pcific and Japan region.  (Read more at CIOL )

Chrome 4.0 for Mac

Browser Actions is Chrome ‘s new extension presentation technology that lets users interact through a small button toward the upper right of the browser window. This feature currently work on Windows and Linux only, but it is expected that Chrome 4.0 beta with Browser Action for Mac will be released by early December. (Read more at cnet )

HomeShop18 on DTH

HomeShop18, a 24 Hour Shopping Channel, has announced the launch of its service on DishTV, Airtel digital and Videocon d2h. Subscribers of DTH will now be able to enjoy the benefits of shopping from home with free home delivery, a range of products and 15 day money back guarantee.

Shaadi.com Launches Secure Talk

Shaadi.com , has announced the launch of Shaadi.com SecureTalk, a voice service that enables members in India to talk to potential partners from the U.S., U.K. and Canada. Members based in India can now receive calls using their registered mobile or landline without having the need to reveal their number to prospective parties.

ViziSense Launches Comparitive Metrics

ViziSense , an online metrics platform which measures site visitor demographics, owned and managed by Komli Media India Pvt Ltd, has a launched a compare feature, which allows  comparisions across various sites in a single graph. The graph displays site visits, demographics and traffic data.  ViziSense  boast of a sample size of 60000 users.

Om Shanti Om In Apple iTunes Video Store

Eros International Plc (“Eros”),has announced the availability of a  full length Bollywood film,”Om Shanti Om” , in the UK on the Apple iTunes Video Store with further territory roll outs over the coming months. “We are continuously pushing our content onto new platforms and we are hopeful that this will drive our future growth” said Manu Kaushish, Sr. VP, New Media.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event