The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) issued an advisory stating that Drinik Android malware which was masquerading as a portal for Income Tax refund, was targeting Indian online banking users.

It has been observed that Indian banking customers are being targeted by a new type of mobile banking campaign using Drinik android malware. Drinik started as a primitive SMS stealer back in year 2016 and has evolved recently to a banking trojan that demonstrates phishing screen and persuades users to enter sensitive banking information. Customers of more than 27 Indian banks including major public and private sector banks have already been targeted by the attackers using this malware — Indian Computer Emergency Response Team

There has been a spurt in cyber attacks in India, including alleged attacks perpetrated by Chinese state actors . As of today, India still does not have a data protection law and the National Cyber Security Strategy which has been in the pipeline since 2019, has still not been finalised. The proposed strategy will have a clause for claiming cyber insurance , which could help victims of cyber attacks.

According to CERT-In —

“These attack campaigns can effectively jeopardize the privacy and security of sensitive customer data and result in large scale attacks and financial frauds,” CERT-In said.

Recently, while responding to a parliamentary question, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) revealed that the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) observed a total of 6,07,220 cybersecurity incidents in the first half of 2021.

In 2020, CERT-In tracked 11,58,208 cybersecurity incidents. The number from January to June this year is on track to beat last year’s number, which was in itself a sharp rise from the 3,94,499 incidents that were tracked in 2019.

In April this year, Sophos, a British IT security company reported that about 52% of Indian companies fell victim to a successful cyber attack in the last 12 months. The report says that the migration to work-from-home owing to the COVID-19 pandemic posed additional challenges to companies’ cybersecurity capabilities.

In August, while responding to another question asked in the Lok Sabha, the Ministry of Defence said that the government was in the “final stages” of approving the strategy. The new policy will cover —

Currently, India adheres to the National Cyber Security Policy 2013 but the policy is considered to be outdated given the pace of change that has taken place in cyberspace over the last eight years.

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event