The Supreme Court Registry issued a public notice warning users of fake websites impersonating its official page and soliciting personal details and confidential information. The top court disclosed that multiple websites hosted on specific URLs had involvement in this phishing activity.

The Court added that it would never ask for personal or financial details and urged users to verify the authenticity of such website links before engaging with them. The Registry also instructed users to change their online account passwords and report to banks and credit card companies if they had fallen prey to such attacks. Finally, law enforcement authorities have been notified about this attack to undertake due investigation.

Upon analysis, while most links listed in the public notice displayed a “deceptive website warning”, one functioning link redirected users to an Economic Times article titled “How bankers are helping cybercriminals siphon your money”.

While this particular instance didn’t give way to abuse of Google’s sponsored ads, previously the tech giant’s advertising forum has been used to promote similar phishing scams. To explain, sponsored Google ads were used to promote fake versions of cryptocurrency websites on Google search results, thereby redirecting users to fraudulent websites where they link their digital wallets with such portals. Besides cryptocurrency, sponsored ads have also facilitated tech support scams impersonating legitimate software companies and charging users exorbitant fees for bogus malware removal.

In its 2023 Ads Safety report , Google announced that it removed over 5.5 billion ads and suspended over 12.7 million advertiser accounts to safeguard users from scams and frauds. Moreover, the company also harnessed AI to improve ad safety and introduced newer policies like the Ads Transparency Center, allowing users to familiarise themselves with the platform’s ad practices.

Further, as per Google’s Q3FY24 earnings report , the company accrued an advertising revenue of roughly $65.9 billion, 10.4% higher than the same quarter in the previous year. This becomes especially significant considering calls from Indian startups urging the Government to regulate Google ads citing fraudulent links used to conduct online scams. To explain, the Alliance of Digital India Foundation (ADIF) while raising this issue, claimed that Google and other tech firms charge hefty fees to host fraudulent ads and generate profit from them, all the while exposing users to high risks.

While the Supreme Court has become the latest target of scam websites, recently, multiple Indian government websites with “gov.in” handles were found redirecting users to sites linked to online betting and investment scams, TechCrunch reported . The issue persisted months after the news portal had originally flagged it and affected websites like that of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the state governments of Maharashtra and Haryana.

Additionally, gambling and online betting brands recently hacked the official websites of the Agriculture Ministry and BJP leader Vijay Goel , forming the latest incidents among a slew of attacks against government ministries’ websites. Rajya Sabha members have also raised the issue of cybercrime through fake websites, with inquiries about government actions against them. In response , the Union government shrugged responsibility, disclosing that Police and ‘Public Order’ are State subjects as per the Constitution, with the responsibility for addressing such fraud falling on States and UTs through their law enforcement agencies.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event