Penguin Random House India has issued an official statement following the controversy over the “unpublished” memoir of former Indian Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, which had “disappeared” from Amazon India, Flipkart, and the official website of Penguin Random House India .

In their statement, the publisher made two key claims:

Therefore, they called for an immediate stop to the “illegal and unauthorised dissemination” of the book.

This incident raises key questions: If the publisher is correct, were the copies listed on Amazon and Flipkart pirated, and if so, can the platforms be held liable for hosting them?

A short timeline of the controversy around the book is at the end of this article.

While it remains unclear whether Naravane’s book, which was reportedly available on Amazon and Flipkart, was an original edition or a pirated one, the piracy of physical books on Flipkart is a significant issue. Several Reddit users have identified this as a widespread problem on e-commerce platforms, especially on Flipkart.

It is important to note that Amazon and Flipkart are online marketplaces. This means that several third-party sellers are on board their platform and list their goods for sale. Because platform algorithms often display the lowest-priced option first, this could be a pirated copy, thereby impacting the revenues of the original publisher.

For instance, recently, a Reddit user posted pictures of a book bought from Flipkart that had the Z-Library watermark, one of the most popular book piracy websites. Additionally, users such as u/Ordinary_Tomatillo_4 , u /seijuuro21 , u/WatanabeTora , u/shivamUHD , and u/comradefunkadelic have shared their experiences of receiving pirated books from Flipkart.

To counter online piracy, some publishers deploy proactive measures to caution readers. For example, the Indian vertical of the France-based publishing house Hachette uses multi-level holograms, typically shiny, multi-dimensional stickers placed on books, to help identify genuine copies and deter counterfeiting.

Online marketplaces like Amazon and Flipkart fall under the Information Technology Act, 2000. The Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code Rules, 2021 , also apply to them. Under these IT rules, intermediaries are not held liable for the content they host and distribute if they comply with court or competent authority-issued takedown orders. But failure to meet these conditions can deprive them of liability protections.

For instance, in December 2025, Flipkart invoked the safe harbour exemptions as its defence in a copyright infringement case involving an academic book publisher, S Chand and Company Limited. However, after observing that a normal user wouldn’t be able to distinguish a pirated book from an original book, the Delhi HC ordered Flipkart to remove the infringing copies from its platform within 72 hours. Similarly, in 2019, in a case involving the delivery of the wrong product, the Allahabad High Court ruled that Flipkart is not liable for third parties’ actions on its platform.

While e-commerce platforms are required to verify vendors on their platforms through documents such as Goods and Services Tax (GST) registration details, Permanent Account Numbers (PANs), bank details, and financial statements, e-commerce sites are not obligated to inspect the products they sell for quality or authenticity.

However, in contrast to the above judgments, the Delhi High Court held MySpace, an intermediary, liable in 2012 for third-party content on its platform in a case filed by Super Cassettes, which alleged copyright infringement after users uploaded copyrighted songs to the platform.

1 Feb : Before the controversy around the existence of his memoir erupted, The Caravan published an article titled “Naravane’s Moment of Truth” by Sushant Singh, Consulting Editor at The Caravan. The article included information related to the 2020 clash with China.

3 Feb : Rahul Gandhi quoted The Caravan’s article in the Lok Sabha, alleging that excerpts discussed the government’s handling of the 2020 Ladakh standoff. After Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla disallowed references to the book or the Caravan article, Rahul Gandhi publicly displayed the book outside Parliament.

9 Feb : Penguin Random House issued an official statement saying it holds exclusive rights to the book but that it has not gone into publication and that “no copies, including print or digital, have been published, distributed, or sold.” It also stated that copies available on online platforms are illegal and unauthorised.

India Today reportedly verified that bookstores in Delhi had physical copies of the memoir.

The publisher has not issued any statement refuting their report at the time of writing this article, except for defining what it means by “book announcement,” “pre-order,” and “published book.” Meanwhile, Penguin Random House India deleted the 2023 pre-order announcement post from X.

10 Feb : Following the publisher’s statement, Delhi Police registered an FIR regarding the alleged circulation of the “unpublished” book, particularly online, including on social media and personal messaging platforms such as WhatsApp.

While it remains unclear how Rahul Gandhi obtained an “unpublished” copy of the book, Mausami Singh, Political Editor at the India Today Group, alleged in a YouTube video that Naravane himself gave the book to Gandhi.

Naravane also issued a statement saying, “This is the status of the book,” quoting Penguin Random House India’s official statement.

Note: The article was updated to improve its structure and clarity on February 12, 2026, at 1. 11 pm.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event