PRAVIN PARSHOTTAMBHAI CHOVATIYA
 Versus
 STATE OF GUJARAT
==========================================================
Appearance: 2. Learned advocate Mr. Virat Popat appears for the
 applicant accused submits that FIR has been
 filed on 15th October, 2020 and present applicant
 has been arrested on 16th October, 2020 and since
 then he is in judicial custody. The
 investigation is already completed and after
 submission of charge-sheet present bail Page 1 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 application is preferred. Learned advocate Mr.
 Virat Popat further submits that the co-accused,
 who have actively participated in commission of
 crime by intimidating and threatening the
 victims with a sole intent to extort money from
 them, have been enlarged either on regular bail
 or on default bail. Learned advocate Mr. Popat
 submits that out of 12 accused persons against
 whom charge-sheet is filed, 8 accused persons
 have been enlarged either on regular bail or on
 default bail. Learned advocate Mr. Popat submits
 that the co-accused persons who played graver
 role than the present applicant accused have
 been enlarged on bail. The applicant accused is
 cited merely as an employee of the main accused
 person Jayesh Patel as courier boy who has
 collected the ill-gotten money from victim
 Bhagwanbhai on instruction of main accused
 Jayesh Patel in the year 2016 and said fact is
 clearly established from the statement of the
 victim Bhagwanbhai. Except that no other role is
 played by the applicant accused. Learned
 advocate Mr. Popat, therefore, submits that the
 applicant accused may be enlarged on bail on the
 ground of parity since the other co-accused who
 have played graver role than the present
 applicant accused have already been granted
 bail. In reply to the submission canvassed by
 learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Mitesh Amin that
 the co-accused Atul Bhanderi who is the Page 2 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 beneficiary of an amount of Rs.25,00,000/- has
 not been considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 and therefore the present applicant accused and
 one Mr. Anil Parmar who have played graver role
 and who are the beneficiary of total amount of
 Rs.2.19 crore may not be enlarged on bail,
 learned advocate Mr. Popat submits that there is
 no concept of negative parity. Learned advocate
 Mr. Popat thereafter referred to and relied upon
 the order of co-accused Anilbhai @ Mehtaji
 Dineshbhai Dangariya and submitted that when the
 said co-accused against whom much more serious
 allegations have been raised to the effect that
 he was in constant touch with main accused
 Jayesh Patel and used to collect and route the
 extorted money to various persons on direction
 and instruction of main accused persons, has
 been enlarged on bail by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court, the present applicant, whose role is
 lesser than the said co-accused, may also be
 enlarged on bail considering the principle of
 parity. Learned advocate Mr. Popat has referred
 to and relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of State of Gujarat v.
 Sandip Omprakash Gupta rendered in Criminal
 Appeal No.2291 of 2022 and submitted that as per
 the observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the aforesaid decision, no offence has
 been registered against the present applicant
 accused post enactment of the GUJCTOC Act i.e. Page 3 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 after 01.12.2019 and therefore when the
 provisions of Section 2(1)(c) would not attract
 in the case of the applicant accused, he is
 required to be absolved from the prosecution
 under GUJCTOC Act. Learned advocate Mr. Popat
 further submits that since the charge was framed
 and after framing of the charge, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court passed the aforesaid judgment in
 the case of Sandip Omprakash Gupta (supra), the
 applicant accused has filed a Criminal Revision
 Application challenging the framing of charge
 itself and prayed to absolve the applicant
 accused from the prosecution under GUJCTOC Act.
 The said application is pending before this
 Court. Learned advocate Mr. Popat further
 submits that the applicant accused has been
 arrested on 16.10.2020 and since then he is in
 judicial custody and therefore considering the
 period of incarceration also, the applicant
 accused may be enlarged on bail. It is further
 submitted that post 2016, applicant accused has
 not committed any offence and the offences
 relied on by the prosecuting agency for filing
 present FIR attracting the provisions of GUJCTOC
 Act are of the year 2016 and when the applicant
 accused has not committed any offence post
 enactment of the GUJCTOC Act, he can be absolved
 from the prosecution under GUJCTOC Act, as per
 the observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Sandip Omprakash Gupta Page 4 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 (supra). Thus, precisely on the grounds of
 parity, period of incarceration undergone by the
 applicant accused and post enactment of the
 GUJCTOC Act, since no offence is registered
 against the applicant accused, he may be
 enlarged on bail. 3. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Mitesh Amin
 assisted by learned APP Mr. Manan Mehta for the
 respondent - State submits that applicant
 accused and one co-accused Anil Parmar collected
 ill-gotten money of Rs.2.19 crores from one of
 the victims viz. Bhagwanbhai. To prove the said
 fact, learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin has
 read the statements of various witnesses.
 Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin further
 submits that the applicant accused is not only
 associated with the syndicate for collecting
 money of extortion from the victims but also
 associated with the newspaper viz. 'Navanagar
 Times' run by wife of main accused Jayesh Patel. Learned Public Prosecutor also read the
 statements of witnesses in this regard. It is
 submitted that applicant is also an accused of
 land grabbing and one offence is registered
 against the applicant accused in the year 2016
 by one Chandrakant Barot. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin further submits that on the
 basis of forged power of attorney, the accused
 persons are purchasing property, they are
 exchanging money through bearer cheque and Page 5 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 getting back that money etc. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin referred to and relied upon
 the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 case of State of Maharashtra v. Shiva @ Shivaji
 Ramaji Sonawane , reported in (2015) 14 SCC 272
 and submits that in the said case initially the
 investigator registered the offence under the
 provisions of IPC and Arms Act against two
 gangs. However, subsequently the investigator
 found that the said offence led to organized
 crime and therefore he sought permission to file
 separate complaint under the provisions of
 Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act
 (' MCOC Act ' for short) based on the same FIR
 filed under the provisions of IPC and Arms Act.
 Thereafter, the investigator filed FIRs invoking
 the provisions of MCOC Act after getting
 sanction. So, four separate proceedings came to
 be filed against the accused persons two under
 the IPC and Arms Act and two under the MCOC Act based on the FIRs under the provisions of IPC
 and Arms Act. However, at the end of trial, the
 accused persons came to be acquitted for the
 offence under the IPC and Arms Act and State has
 not challenged the said acquittal. It is further
 submitted that in the proceedings under MCOC
 Act , the accused persons have been convicted.
 The matter went up to the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 and the Hon'ble Supreme Court ultimately set
 aside the conviction by observing that the FIRs Page 6 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 filed under the MCOC Act are based on the FIRs
 filed under IPC and Arms Act and when the
 accused have been acquitted for the offence
 under IPC and Arms Act and when the State has
 not challenged the said acquittal, there is no
 question of conviction for the offence under MCOC Act . Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin
 submits that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 case of Sandip Omprakash Gupta (supra) has
 merely explained the situation in Shiva's
 Judgment and beyond that there is nothing in the
 case of Sandip Omprakash Gupta (supra). So
 application of Sandip Omprakash Gupta 's case in
 any bail matter unless the issue relates to that
 particular fact is totally unwarranted. Learned
 Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin, therefore, submits
 that bail application of the applicant may not
 be entertained. 4. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin has heavily
 relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar v. the
 State of Maharashtra & Ors , rendered in Criminal
 Appeal No.1125 of 2022, and submitted that so
 far as the controversy involved in the present
 case, the aforesaid judgment will hold the
 field. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin refers
 to the provisions of Section 2(1)(a) of the
 GUJCTOC Act and submits that so far as the act
 of 'abet' is concerned, any facilitation of
 commission of organized crime would amount to Page 7 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 abetting the offence of organized crime. Learned
 Public Prosecutor further submits that one may
 be a principal offender and remaining persons of
 the syndicate would be the members of the
 syndicate but if some offence is committed by
 any accused person and someone has merely
 conspired and has committed some act of a nature
 of conspiracy then that section will be
 attracted. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin
 further submits that thereafter the gravity of
 the offence also need to be seen while dealing
 with the application of bail. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin further submits that when
 the Court examines the term 'continuing unlawful
 activity', there has to be more than one offence
 where the cognizance has been taken. Mr. Amin
 further submits that say for example if there
 are 10 members in an organized crime syndicate
 and one is the leader of the syndicate and
 others are the members then it is not
 prerequisite that against all the 10 members
 there has to be more than one offence requires
 to be registered and wherein cognizance is being
 taken by the competent Court. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin has, at this juncture,
 relied upon the observations made by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court in para 77 and 78 in the case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar (supra) and submitted that
 in the aforesaid case, it has been specifically
 observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that, 'it Page 8 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 is settled law that more than one charge sheet
 is required to be filed in respect of the
 organized crime syndicate and not in respect of
 each person who is alleged to be a member of
 such a syndicate'. 5. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin thereafter
 relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Atulbhai Vithalbhai
 Bhanderi v. State of Gujarat rendered in
 Criminal Appeal No.1390 of 2023 and submitted
 that the Hon'ble Supreme Court, vide aforesaid
 judgment, refused to enlarge the said accused
 person (the co-accused in the present FIR) on
 bail considering the stand of the State that the
 prayer for bail of the concerned appellant
 accused person may be considered only after the
 protected witnesses are examined. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin submits that similar kind of
 request may also be considered by this Court and
 the present applicant accused may not be
 enlarged on bail till the protected witnesses
 are examined. It is further submitted that
 charges are framed and witness No.1 has already
 been examined. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr.
 Amin has read the relevant observations made by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of co-
 accused Atulbhai Vithalbhai Bhanderi (supra) and
 submitted that the said co-accused facilitated
 the meeting between the accused No.1 - Jaysukh @
 Jayesh Muljibhai Ranpara (Patel) and victim Page 9 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 Bhagwanjibhai Kanjariya and said victim has paid
 Rs.2,19,00,000/- to the members of the organized
 crime syndicate i.e. Anil Parmar and Pravin
 Chovatiya (present applicant accused) and to
 prove the said fact learned Public Prosecutor
 Mr. Amin has read the statement of victim
 Bhagwanjibhai Kanjariya. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin thereafter referred to the
 ledger account of one of the members of the
 syndicate viz. Mr. Anil Parmar operated from
 Sharjah and submitted that the said accused had
 given money to accused Pravin Chovatiya and
 other members of the syndicate. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin further submits that there
 are two other victims of the organized crime
 i.e. one Mr. Mehta and Mr. Chandrakant Barot.
 Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin has also
 explained the modes operandi adopted by the
 syndicate against the aforesaid three victim
 persons. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin
 submits that role of the accused persons viz.
 Mr. Anil Parmar and Pravin Chovatiya (present
 applicant accused) is graver than the role of
 Mr. Bhanderi whose bail application has not been
 considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court because
 the said co-accused Bhanderi is beneficiary of
 an amount of Rs.25 lakh, whereas Mr. Anil Parmar
 and Pravin Chovatiya (present applicant accused)
 are the beneficiaries of total amount of
 Rs.2,19,00,000/- and they are party to the Page 10 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 transaction of land grabbing from that ill-
 gotten money which had come from Anil Parmar's
 account from Sharjah to accounts of members of
 syndicate at Jamnagar. 6. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin thereafter
 referred to the order of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Anilbhai Dangariya and
 submitted that the role of the said accused
 person is totally different than the role played
 by the present applicant accused because the
 said accused is not the beneficiary of any
 amount. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin
 further submits that there is no dispute with
 regard to the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the aforesaid case, however, in
 the aforesaid decision, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court has not considered the decision of Zakir
 Abdul Mirajkar (supra). Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin, therefore, submits that
 bail application of the applicant may not be
 entertained. 7. I have perused the police papers and other
 documents produced by the applicant along with
 the memo of the application. It is found out
 from the record that applicant has been arrested
 on 16th October, 2020 and since then he is in
 judicial custody. The investigation is already
 completed and after submission of charge-sheet
 present bail application is preferred. It is
 also found out from the record that not a single Page 11 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 FIR is registered against the present applicant
 accused after the promulgation of the GUJCTOC
 Act. 8. It is also found out from the record that in
 fact the FIR has been filed against total 14
 persons and name of the present applicant
 accused is mentioned at serial No.9. At the end
 of the day, after completion of investigation,
 the investigating officer has filed charge-sheet
 against 12 accused persons and remaining accused
 persons have been shown as absconder and yet
 they are not arrested. Out of 12 accused persons
 against whom charge-sheet is filed, accused Nos.
 1 and 3 have been enlarged on bail by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court, accused Nos. 2, 4, 6, 10 and
 13 have been enlarged on default bail and
 accused No.12 has been enlarged on bail by the
 Coordinate Bench of this Court. As submitted by
 learned advocate Mr. Popat, the persons who have
 been enlarged on default bail are the main
 accused persons and grave role is attributed to
 them as per the case of the prosecution. It is
 also found out from the record that the kingpin
 and gang leader Mr. Jayesh Patel has not been
 arrested. Before adverting to the issue involved in the
 present case, I would like to refer to and rely
 upon the following decisions rendered by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court. In the case of Sandip Page 12 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined Omprakash Gupta (supra), in para 51(f) & (g),
 the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed as under: If a person ceases to indulge in any unlawful
 act after the said Act, then, he is absolved of
 the prosecution under the said Act. But, if he
 continues with the unlawful activity, it cannot
 be said that the State has to wait till, he
 commits two acts of which cognizance is taken by
 the Court after coming into force. The same
 principle would apply, even in the case of the
 2015 Act, with which we are concerned." In the case of Mukeshbhai Vallabhbhai Abhangi
 (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed in
 para nos. 7 and 8 as under: Sections 2(1)(c) provides as under: Sections 2(1)(e) provides as under: Section 2(1)(f) provides as under: Considering the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the aforesaid decisions and
 considering the aforesaid provisions of GUJCTOC
 Act as well as period of incarceration undergone
 by the applicant accused, I am inclined to
 consider the bail application of the applicant
 accused without discussing anything on merits
 and demerits of the matter. 9. This Court has also taken into consideration the
 law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case of Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Page 16 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 Investigation, reported in [2012]1 SCC 40 as
 well as in case of Satender Kumar Antil v.
 Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. reported
 in (2022)10 SCC 51. 10. In the facts and circumstances of the case and
 considering the nature of the allegations made
 against the applicant in the FIR, without
 discussing the evidence in detail, prima facie,
 this Court is of the opinion that this is a fit
 case to exercise the discretion and enlarge the
 applicant on regular bail. 11. Hence, the present application is allowed and
 the applicant is ordered to be released on
 regular bail in connection with
 C.R.No.11202008202186 of 2020 registered with
 Jamnagar City 'A' Division Police Station,
 Jamnagar, on executing a personal bond of
 Rs.15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand only) with
 one surety of the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the trial Court and subject to
 the conditions that he shall; [a] not take undue advantage of liberty or
 misuse liberty; [b] not act in a manner injuries to the interest
 of the prosecution; [c] surrender passport, if any, to the lower
 court within a week; [d] not leave the State of Gujarat without prior
 permission of the Sessions Judge concerned; NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10761/2023 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 [e] mark presence before the concerned Police
 Station on alternate Monday of every English
 calendar month for a period of six months
 between 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.; [f] furnish the present address of residence to
 the Investigating Officer and also to the
 Court at the time of execution of the bond
 and shall not change the residence without
 prior permission of this Court; 12. The authorities will release the applicant only
 if he is not required in connection with any
 other offence for the time being. If breach of
 any of the above conditions is committed, the
 Sessions Judge concerned will be free to issue
 warrant or take appropriate action in the
 matter. Bail bond to be executed before the
 lower Court having jurisdiction to try the case.
 It will be open for the concerned Court to
 delete, modify and/or relax any of the above
 conditions, in accordance with law. 13. At the trial, the trial Court shall not be
 influenced by the observations of preliminary
 nature qua the evidence at this stage made by
 this Court while enlarging the applicant on
 bail. 14. The present application stands allowed
 accordingly. Direct service is permitted. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)
LAVKUMAR J JANI Page 18 of 18 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:34 IST 2023