1. The petitioner apprehending arrest in the FIR captioned above has come up before
this Court under Section 482 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, [BNSS],
seeking anticipatory bail. 2. In paragraph 12 of the bail petition, the accused has the following criminal
antecedents: 3. The petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions and
contends that further pre-trial incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice to the
petitioner and their family. 4. The State's counsel opposes bail and refers to the reply. 5. The facts and allegations are being taken from the reply filed by the State, which
reads as follows: 6. During his custodial investigation, the investigation reveals that accused Karan
Singh disclosed to the Police officer that he had purchased the pistol and cartridges from
his school-time friend Pardeep Singh alias Kaka, who had further purchased these from
the petitioner. After that, on numerous occasions, petitioner Suraj borrowed the said
pistol. Based on this disclosure statement, the Investigator had arraigned the petitioner,
Suraj, as an accused. 7. The admissibility of evidence when it is extracted through a disclosure statement
of an accused in police custody is mentioned in S. 23 of The Bharatiya Sakshya
Adhiniyam, 2023, [BSA], which reads as follows: (2) No confession made by any person while he is in the custody of
 a police officer, unless it is made in the immediate presence of a
 Magistrate shall be proved against him: 8. Fact is defined in S.2(f) of BSA, which reads as follows: 9. A perusal of the reply does not point towards the discovery of any fact, as defined
in S. 2(f) BSA, to bring the above-referred confessions within the purview of the Proviso
to S. 23 BSA. Thus, the disclosure statement made by the accused, Karan Singh, cannot
be proved in evidence and thus has no evidentiary value. 10. The other evidence is the confidential information received by the police from its
sources who had informed about the accused, initially named in FIR, who formed a gang
and had already indulged in criminal activities, were hatching a conspiracy to commit
offenses. The evidentiary value of this evidence is subject to the privileged
communication, protected under S. 131 of BSA, which reads as follows: 11. S. 131 is a privilege granted to the officers mentioned in S. 131 BSA, and thus,
they cannot be compelled to name their source. Thus, this evidence can also not be
proved. 12. It would be appropriate to refer to the following portions of the reply, which read
as follows: 13. A perusal of the reply reveals that the initial evidence is based on prior
information of an informer, which is a privileged communication under S. 131 BSA and,
thus, cannot be proved. The other evidence is a confession of the co-accused in custody
before the Investigators, which is hit by S. 23(1) and 23 (2) of BSA, 2023. Under S. 23 of
BSA, 2023, neither a confession made to a police officer can be proved against any
person accused of any offense, nor a confession by an accused to a police officer can be
proved except when made before a Magistrate, and if done, it would imply that such
confession shall be inadmissible in evidence. 14. The main penal provisions invoked against the petitioner and the co-accused is
Section 111 of BNS, 2023, which reads as follows: (2) Whoever commits organised crime shall,-- (a) if such offence has resulted in the death of any person, be
 punished with death or imprisonment for life, and shall also be
 liable to fine which shall not be less than ten lakh rupees; (b) in any other case, be punished with imprisonment for a term
 which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to
 imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine which shall
 not be less than five lakh rupees. (3) Whoever abets, attempts, conspires or knowingly facilitates the
 commission of an organised crime, or otherwise engages in any act
 preparatory to an organised crime, shall be punished with
 imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but
 which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable
 to fine which shall not be less than five lakh rupees. (4) Any person who is a member of an organised crime syndicate
 shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be
 less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life,
 and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than five lakh
 rupees. (5) Whoever, intentionally, harbours or conceals any person who
 has committed the offence of an organised crime shall be punished
 with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three
 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also
 be liable to fine which shall not be less than five lakh rupees: 15. To bring an offense into the four corners of an organized crime, the offense must
fall under a category described in S. 111 of BNS, 2023. The primafacie evidence must be
legally admissible to constitute any continuing unlawful activity to constitute an
organized crime as defined in S. 111 BNS. Without legally admissible primafacie
evidence, the State cannot make any suspect undergo custodial interrogation to hunt for
such evidence against the suspect or others. The evidence must be gathered first to make 6 6 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 26-09-2024 06:28:52 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:127296 7 CRM-M-42577-2024
out a primafacie case within the scope of S. 111 of BNS, and such evidence alone would
justify custodial interrogation to carry out further investigation. Without legally
admissible accusations, allegations, or evidence, the State cannot arrest a suspect to fish
evidence against them or use such a suspect as custodial bait by any hook, line, and
sinker to bring the case into the fold of S. 111 of BNS. Prima facie evidence must be
admissible, and if such evidence is deemed inadmissible, the entire foundation will
collapse. 16. There is no primafacie legally admissible evidence collected so far to make out an
offence against the petitioner punishable under S. 111 of BSA. 17. Given the above, the penal provisions invoked coupled with the primafacie
analysis of the nature of allegations and the other factors peculiar to this case, there
would be no justifiability for custodial interrogation or the pre-trial incarceration at this
stage. 18. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail.
This order shall come into force from the time it is uploaded on this Court's official
webpage. 19. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above subject to furnishing bonds
to the satisfaction of the Arresting Officer, and if the matter is before a Court, then the
concerned Court and due to unavailability before any nearest Ilaqa Magistrate/duty
Magistrate. Before accepting the surety, the concerned Officer/Court must be satisfied
that if the accused fails to appear, such surety can produce the accused. 20. While furnishing a personal bond, the petitioner shall mention the following
personal identification details: 21. This order is subject to the petitioner's complying with the following terms. 22. The petitioner is directed to join the investigation within seven days and as and
when called by the Investigator. The petitioner shall be in deemed custody for Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act/ Proviso to Section 23 of BSA. The petitioner shall join the
investigation as and when called by the Investigating Officer or any Superior Officer and
shall cooperate with the investigation at all further stages as required. In the event of
failure to do so, the prosecution will be open to seeking cancellation of the bail. During 7 7 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 26-09-2024 06:28:52 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:127296 8 CRM-M-42577-2024
the investigation, the petitioner shall not be subjected to third-degree, indecent language,
inhuman treatment, etc. 23. This order is subject to the petitioner's complying with the following terms. The
petitioner shall abide by all statutory bond conditions and appear before the concerned
Court(s) on all dates. The petitioner shall not tamper with the evidence, influence,
browbeat, pressurize, induce, threaten, or promise, directly or indirectly, any witnesses,
Police officials, or any other person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the
case or dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police or the Court. 24. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 25. A certified copy of this order would not be needed for furnishing bonds, and any
Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. If the attesting officer wants
to verify its authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. 26. Petition allowed in terms mentioned above. All pending applications, if any,
stand disposed of. (ANOOP CHITKARA)
 JUDGE
25.09.2024
anju rani

Whether speaking/reasoned: Yes
Whether reportable: YES. 8 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 26-09-2024 06:28:52 :::