1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 09.12.2022 seeking information on
the following points: (iii) संयु क खाता मांक 107xxxx88014 से ए Online Financial Fraud दारा

 कारवाई प ात राशी पया एक लाख खाता धारक को ा हो इस सं बध मे चुनाभटटी

 पोिलस े शन, मुंबई दारा कारवाई करने हेतु एस.बी.आय., चे ुर, ा क पाक,

 मुंबई से स क कर कौन से द ावेज मांगे है। चुनाभटटी पोिलस े शन, मुंबई इ े जो

 भी द ावेज ुत िकए है अथवा प ाचार िकया गया है उन प एवंम द ावेजो की

 छाया ित मुहैया करवाए। 2. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 09.03.2023 and the same is reproduced as
under :- After that, he received call from unknown number imposing himself as
 Vodafone Customer Care Executive. He told Mr. Meshram to download
 Anydesk App and do Rs.1 transaction. Our bank had called for SMS, OTP and
 transaction log details and found that Mr. & Mrs. Meshram is an existing UPI
 user, the fraudster needed UPI PIN only, for this fraudster told Mr. Meshram
 to download Anydesk app which is screen sharing app. The fraudster must have Page 2 of 4 viewed the UPI Pin entered by customer. Upon scrutiny, it was found that
 customer had not ensured genuineness of the transactions and negligent as the
 disputed transactions cannot be put through without entering UPI PIN.
 Considering the above facts, Mr. & Mrs. Meshram is not eligible for
 compensation of loss and therefore bank recommend for rejection of claim of
 Rs.1 Lac. (ii) Documents as available in the above mentioned Query are attached herewith. (iii) Name and designation of the Appellate Authority Address of the Appellate
 Authority
 General Manager-I State Bank of India, 5th Floor, Local Head Office BKC,
 Bandra, Mumbai-400051
 Email Address of the Appellate Authority: Phone number of your First
 Appallete Authority: 3. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 08.04.2023 alleging that the information provided was incomplete, false
and misleading. The FAA vide order dated 04.05.2023 upheld the reply given by the
CPIO. 4. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal dated 08.06.2023 5. The appellant and on behalf of the respondent Mr. Neel Ratna, CPIO, attended the
hearing through video conference. 6. The appellant inter alia submitted that the reply furnished by the CPIO was not
satisfactory. He further submitted that details of enquiry was not provided till date. He
requested the Commission to direct the respondent to furnish the information, as sought. 7. The respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that a point-wise
response to the RTI application had been furnished to the appellant vide their letter dated
09.03.2023. He further submitted that the appellant had sought information regarding 1 Page 3 of 4 lakh fraud that happened due to negligence of the appellant and bank was not responsible
for the loss. Moreover, in appeal stage the appellant had sought additional information
which is not permissible as per the RTI Act . 8. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both parties and perusal of records, observes that the CPIO has provided an appropriate
reply to the RTI Application as per the provisions of the RTI Act vide letter dated
09.03.2023. The perusal of records further reveals that the appellant has grievance with
regard to 1 lakh fraud that happened due to his own negligence which could be raised
before an appropriate forum. This forum may not be treated as grievance redressal
forum. In view of the above, the Commission finds no scope of intervention in the
matter. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- (Anandi Ramalingam) (आनंदी रामिलंगम)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयु )
 िदनांक/Date: 11.11.2024
Authenticated true copy

Col S S Chhikara (Retd) कनल एस एस िछकारा, ( रटायड)
Dy. Registrar (उप पंजीयक)
011-26180514

Addresses of the parties: