WazirX received a total of 431 information requests from law enforcement agencies (LEA) against a total transaction volume of $390 million from October 2022 to March 2023, according to a transparency report published by the crypto exchange. These requests dealt with issues like account blocking, suspected criminal proceedings, and investigations.

The report added that most of these requests (385) were made by Indian LEAs whereas the remaining requests (46) were raised by foreign agencies.

The exchange claimed to have an average turnaround time of 25 minutes for sending the first cut reply. It added that the statutory turnaround time for companies to respond to LEAs is within 72 hours of receiving a request. The platform also revealed that it blocked over 2431 accounts based on its internal monitoring process and directives from the LEAs.

Why it matters: The report offers a glimpse into how one of India’s most popular crypto exchanges deals with regulatory oversight. It is also a snapshot of the company’s own efforts to flag suspicious transactions taking place on the platform. It must be noted that the report is a voluntary effort undertaken by the company itself, so its findings must be taken with a pinch of salt. However, it does offer a good precedent that can be followed by other exchanges in the interest of transparency.

What else do we know: The company stated that it reports suspicious transactions proactively to law enforcement agencies such as the Financial Intelligence Unit, India (FIU-IND). The platform flags transactions as suspicious when trading volumes of users do not align with individual ITR/financial status/income.

“Most of the illegal transactions for which inquiries were sent, were fraudulent activities with VDAs (virtual digital assets),” said the report.

Blocking accounts: The company said that its team receives an alert from third-party tools such as Chainalysis on every suspicious transaction, after which the account is blocked, and investigations related to funding sources, transfers, bank documents, and ID checks are carried out. These users are asked to provide additional documents and are sent up to three reminders before their account is blocked for a longer period.

Overview of WazirX’s last report: The exchange processed as many as 828 requests from global and Indian law enforcement agencies from April 2022, to September 2022, as per its report published in November 2022. The requests were made against a total of 10 million transactions on the platform and over 700 accounts were blocked during the intervening period.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event