SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Mental Illness and Massive Loans
DATE: 2023-03-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/120v0z8/mental_illness_and_massive_loans/

--- POST TEXT ---

Brother is struggling with mental illnesses and suicidal ideation.

Backstory: My brother has recently got himself burned by gambling away a shit ton of money (we're lower middle class family) in Olymp Trade. He had access to my family's fix deposit and we never suspected a thing that he would do something like this.

On top of that, he took all the Credit Cards he could manage to obtain and maxed them out as well. Took instant loans from possibly every such apps who would give loans. Used "Buy Now, Pay Later" features. Looking at his mobile activities and installed apps, I am shocked to my bones how disgustingly easy it has become to loan money these days.

He had a job but now that's gone as well. He told me he used the Salary Slips to secure those instant loans.

We, as a family, are in deep trouble at the moment and not seeing any relief and may never recover from the trauma this has caused to us. We used to be dirt poor but worked really hard to get financially stable in last few years. Now this has happened we're completely shattered. I am foreclosing those loans/EMIs as much as I can just to keep my brother and family protected from loan recovery harassment. I am already extremely stressed out doesn't have much money on me either.

Brother's psychiatrist also suggested to protect brother from the harassment as his mental state is fragile at the moment and putting any more stress on him might lead him to commit the unthinkable.

I have two queries, if anyone can answer:

1. Is there any kind of financial relief we can get out of those Apps/Credit Cards -- their interest rates and missed payment penalties are astronomical. If we wait more it'll only mount up the due amount.
2. What are the possible ways for us to bar him from further taking any more credit from anywhere?
 1. I was thinking of cancelling his PAN Card but doing so might have other side effects and hamper securing a job in the future. I believe PAN is kind of mandatory everywhere where money transactions are involved.
 2. Taking away his access to phone/internet/OTP but he can still circumvent these restrictions if he really wants.
 3. Talking him out to not do repeat these wrongdoings is too risky at the moment. Psychiatrist diagnosed him of a gambling addict and with personality disorders.

Any kind of help/suggestions are highly appreciated.