Per Omkareshwar Chidara (AM) :- 2. The only issue to be decided in the above captioned appeal is whether
assessee is entitled to the exemption claimed u/s. 10(38) of the Act with
respect to long term capital gains. The Learned Assessing Officer (Ld. AO in
short) received information from the Investigation Wing of Income Tax
Department that the assessee manipulated accounts to generate entries of
bogus long term capital gains ("LTCG" in short). Hence, after recording
reasons in details, the AO reopened the assessment. The reasons recorded in
detail were mentioned in the assessment order. 3. After reopening the assessment u/s. 148 of the Income Tax Act, notices
were issued u/s. 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act. After providing the reasons for 2 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

reopening the assessment, the Learned Authorised Representative ('Ld. AR'
for short) of assessee Mr. Rajesh Sanghvi, CA of M/s. Rajesh Sanghvi & Co.
filed objections for reopening and the same were disposed off by the AO.
Subsequently, the assessee was asked to furnish the required information
and the AO says that the details were filed. 4. The Ld. AO says that the assessee, an individual, claimed that he
derived income from long term capital gains of Rs. 51,74,772/- on sale of
shares of Splash Media & Infra Company, during this year and claimed this
income as exempt u/s. 10(38) of the Act. From the assessment order, page 3,
it is seen that the assessee purchased 5000 shares on 13.5.2009 @ Rs. 47.22
and paid sale consideration of Rs. 2,36,116/-. Later on, the assessee claims
to have received bonus shares in the ratio of 3:1 and the shareholding of
assessee became 20,000 (Twenty thousand) shares. Out of this 20,000
shares, 2000 shares were sold on 8.6.2010 at the value of Rs. 14,91,647/-.
Further, the assessee claimed that on 31.7.2010, there was split of shares of
Rs. 10/- into Rs. 1/- each. The balance 3000 shares, out of 5000 shares
purchased on 13.5.2009 and 15000 bonus shares got split into 30,000 and
1,50,000 respectively and the total shareholding became 1,80,000 after
bonus and split of shares. These 1,80,000 shares were sold on various dates
from 16.2.2012 to 5.3.2012 (within less than a month) at various rates
ranging from Rs. 28.47 to Rs. 30.57 and the assessee claimed that an
amount of Rs. 53,27,957/- was received by him. All these shares were sold
during the F.Y. 2011-12 corresponding A.Y. 2012-13. The profit of Rs.
51,74,772/- was claimed as exempt u/s. 10(38) of the Act as long term
capital gains. 5. The Ld. AO has mentioned that he received the information from
Kolkata Income Tax Investigation Directorate which conducted detailed
investigation into 84 penny stocks (Splash Media & Infra is one of it) and
they gave their findings indicating fictitious long term capital gains/long term
capital loss entries claimed by large number of beneficiaries. It was 3 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

mentioned by Ld. AO in the assessment order that Kolkata Directorate has
disseminated the information relating to modus operandi of claiming false
LTCG which involved several operator intermediaries and beneficiaries. 6. As per the report of Kolkata Investigation Wing Directorate, the Ld. AO
mentioned the modus operandi adopted by all the beneficiaries, as follows:- These shares have a lock in period of 1 year as per Securities and
 Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 Regulations, 2009. Another route to acquire the shares is through
 Amalgamation or merger, in this route, the beneficiaries of LTCG are
 allotted shares of a private limited company which is subsequently
 amalgamated with a listed penny stock and the beneficiaries receive
 shares of the listed penny stock exchange of the shares of private limited
 company. The shares in some cases were acquired through stock
 exchange. These shares were then split and bonus shares were issued to
 increase the volume. 6.4 Thereafter, the prices of the shares of the penny stock, companies are
 rigged and are raised through circular trading. This is managed by the
 "operator" of the scrip. An "Operator" is a person who wish to take entry of
 bogus LTCG/STCL in their books and arranges the same through the
 scrip of penny stock companies. The Operator manages many
 paper/bogus companies and uses them to do circular transactions to rig
 the price of the shares. The shares of these penny stock companies,
 although listed on exchange, are always closely held and are controlled by
 the promoter of the Penny Stock Company and the Operator who is
 arranging for the bogus LTCG/Loss. This is due to the fact that the
 general public is not interested in these shares as these companies have
 no credentials and this helps the operator to keep a control on the price
 movement of the shares,

 6.5 Once the period of 1 year has passed and the share prices have
 been sufficiently rigged, the beneficiaries sell their shares at the inflated
 prices on the stock Exchange, A point worth noticing here is that the 4 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

 purchase of the shares is not made by the public but by the bogus entities
 managed and controlled by the promoter of the penny stock company or
 the operator which are referred to as "Exit Providers'. The unaccounted
 money of the beneficiaries is routed to these bogus entities "Exit Providers" 7. Then, the Ld. AO gave the financials of the shares, M/s. Splash Media
& Infra Co., a scrip listed in Bombay Stock Exchange. As per the details
mentioned by the Ld. AO, in the assessment order, it can be seen that this
company has share capital during the A.Y. 2012-13 is Rs. 9.37 crores,
reserves of Rs. 2.34 crores and secured loans of Rs. 0.65 crores. Thus, the
total liabilities are Rs. 11.78 crores. On the assets side of balance sheet, the
company is showing cash and bank balances at Rs. 0.78 crores and loans
and advances of Rs. 11.84 crores. Other items of assets and liabilities are
very meagre and negligible to be mentioned here. At pages 8 and 9, the Ld.
AO mentioned the details of profit and loss account for A.Y. 2012-13, which
shows a meagre operative profit of Rs. 0.16 crores, sales turnover of Rs. 0.96
crores, other income of Rs. 0.94 crores, employee cost of Rs. 0.15 crores,
other manufacturing expenses of Rs. 0.57 crores. The details of A.Y. 2012-
13 are analysed here as the assessee claimed to have sold and got huge
profit of Rs. 51 lakhs during this year which was claimed as exempt. There is
no payment of excise duty, no materials were purchased for all the 5 years
analysed by Ld. AO- 2 years prior to A.Y. 2012-13 and 2 year subsequent to
A.Y. 2012-13 and concerned assessment year, the company of M/s. Splash
Media & Infra Ltd. has not spent on power and fuel and there are no finance
and administrative costs. The Ld. Assessing Officer, at page 9 of the
assessment order has mentioned that the EPS of the 5 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

company is a meagre 0.07. Roughly, the financials of the company are the
same for all the 5 years is almost the same. The Ld. AO gave the share price
data of this company on the floor of stock exchange at pages 10,11,12. From
this table, it can be seen that on June 9th of 2009, the price of scrip jumped
to Rs. 429/- on December 09, 2009. Next month, it came down to Rs. 182/-,
and again in June 2010, the price went up to Rs. 700/- to Rs. 182, in
January 2011 it drastically came down to Rs. 75/-, in December 2011, the
price came down to Rs. 20/-, in December 2012 price is Rs. 14/-, in
December 2013 the price came down to Rs. 3.32 and in December 2014 the
price of share is mere Rs. 1.35/-. Thus, the Ld. AO has concluded that the
share price of M/s. Splash Media and Infra company skyrocketed without
any awesome profit, earnings before interest, depreciation margin, earnings
per share (EPS), bonus dividend etc. It was mentioned by the Ld. AO that
these parameters are essential for increase in share price and they were not
present in this case. So, the Ld. AO is of the opinion that, in the absence of
all these elements, if the share price went up astronomically means, the
share price was jacked up artificially by circular trading forming cartel, i.e.
the shares would be purchased and sold by few interested persons to
give/get intended benefit of non-genuine long term capital gains/long term
capital loss. Once the shares are offloaded, the price of scrip nosedives. What
is very important to observe here is that the price goes up to Rs. 700/- and
comes down to Rs. 1/-, without any change in the fundamentals of company. 8. At pages 13 to 16 of the assessment order, the Ld. AO mentioned the
names of 77 paper/shell companies utilised by operators as "exit Providers",
identified by the Kolkata Investigation Wing. These 77 companies have
purchased the shares of Splash Media & Infra Ltd. after the price rise. The
Ld. AO has further mentioned that the statements of operators who control
and manage these paper/shell companies were recorded and they have
admitted all these companies are bogus/paper companies are not doing any
business and they were used for providing accommodation entries. The 6 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

report of Investigation Directorate says that the unaccounted income of the
beneficiaries was routed into accounts of these shell companies for
purchasing and selling the shares of the beneficiaries. The Ld. AO analysed
the modus operandi and stated as follows at para 8.2, page 16 of the
assessment order :- 9. The Ld. AO at pages 16,17 and 18 of the assessment order, has
reproduced the most specific and relevant question and answers of
statements of Shri Anil Agarwal, Shri Raj Kumar Kedia, Mr. Deepak Agarwal
and Mr. Anuj Agarwal. Mr. Anil Agarwal who controls and manages the
Splash Media Company, in his statement dated 12.4.2015 has mentioned
that the clients who purchase and sell shares at highest rate through stock
exchange do the same only to obtain bogus LTCG and Short Term Capital
Loss (STCL) as both of them would be beneficiaries. Mrs. Raj Kumar Kedia, in
his statement dated 13.6.2014 has stated that most of companies dealt by
him are paper companies and Splash Media is one amongst them. These
companies are controlled and managed by various accommodation/entry
operators which does not have any business operations and utilised for
providing entries of LTCG/LTCL. Mr. Deepak Agarwal, in his statement dated
5.6.2015 has stated that the long term capital gains booked by him are pre-
arranged ones. Mr.Anuj Agarwal in his statement dated 31.3.20215 has
stated that he provided accommodation entries to various beneficiaries being 7 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

various paper companies and M/s. Splash Media & Infra is one amongst
them. He has also utilised the names of other companies like Fairlink
Housing (P) Ltd., Linus Holdings Ltd., Riddhi Vincom Ltd. etc. to provide
accommodation entries to beneficiaries who want LTCG and short term
capital loss (STCL, for short) 10. It appears the assessee has asked for cross-examination of persons
who gave statements against his claim of LTCG, i.e. statements of persons on
whom AO is relying to deny his claim of LTCG u/s. 10(38) of the Act. But, the
Ld. AO, has stated that the statements are not recorded by him but they were
recorded by Kolkata Investigation Directorate. The amounts of LTCG claimed
by the assessee tallied with the figures sent by the Kolkata Investigation
Wing after verification with the sworn statements and seized material found
during the search and seizure operations on various entry operators, the Ld.
AO has mentioned. He relied on the case of M/s. Motilal Padampat Udyog
Ltd. Vs. CIT 160 Taxman 233 for the proposition that cross examination
opportunity need not be given when the certain incriminating material is
found during the search and seizure operations. 11. From pages 19 to 25 of assessment order, the Ld. AO has given the
names and PAN of buyers of shares of M/s. Splash Media Co. from 14.2.2012
to 1.3.2012, from the impugned assessee alongwith rates at which the shares
were sold and quantity of shares sold. At para 10.2 and 10.3 page 25 of
assessment order, the Ld. AO has stated that notices u/s. 133(6) of the Act
were issued to the buyers of shares, as claimed by our impugned
assessee/broker. Notices were issued u/s. 133(6) to all the buyers of shares
and they did not respond to the notices. He has also noted that 45600 shares
were purchased by one person by name Rasika Ravindra Sakpal between
15.2.2012 and 20.2.2012 and he did not file the return of income. The Ld.
AO has stated that it cannot be a coincidence that same purchaser buys on
different dates and he is always ready to buy from the impugned assessee
only. Ld. AO gave the example of Mr. Mukesh Prnthviram Chouhan, another 8 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

buyer of huge chunk of shares from our assessee under similar
circumstances, and hence concluded that the transactions are collusive in
nature between buyer and seller. 12. On page 25, para 11 of assessment order, Ld. AO has stated that Mr.
Anil Agarwal, Mr. Raj Kumar Kedia, Shri Deepak Agarwal and Mrs. Anuj
Agarwal etc. have been found involved in fraudulent practices by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India and in its findings, it was mentioned
that these people act as syndicate for accommodation/entry entires who
chose particular scrips and rig its prices to provide bogus capital
gains/capital loss to various beneficiaries. The SEBI has restrained these
persons from trading in market and these findings of SEBI were upheld by
Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). 13. At para 14, page 28 of the assessment order, the Ld. AO has observed
that receipt of bonus shares and splitting the shares have all occurred as per
the modus operandi of the scheme to increase the volume of shares. So that
the desired amount of bogus LTCG can be booked into the account of
beneficiary i.e., the impugned assessee. It was noted by Ld. AO at page 28,
para 14(b) that the assessee claimed long term capital gain of Rs.
51,74,772/- which is 24 times the increase in cost price in less than 2 years
and such huge rise in share price is not holding to any commercial principles
and market factors. The Ld. AO, at page No. 30, para (e) has noted that the
assessee has not been able to prove unusual rise and fall of share prices to
be natural and based on the market fares as is evident from the share
transactions were closed circuit transactions and clearly structured ones. 14. Finally, the Ld. AO has concluded that the transactions entered into by
assessee involve the service of pre-conceived steps, the performance of each
of which is depending on others were being carried out. The true nature of
such share transactions lacked commercial contents being artificially
structured transactions, entered with sole intent to evade taxes. The Ld. AO 9 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

has stated that all these transactions are make-believe arrangements and
truth or genuineness must prevail over the smokescreen created by assessee
to impart a colour of genuineness. Hence, the Ld. AO denied the LTCG claim u/s. 10(38) of assessee and held the same as income u/s. 68 of the Act.
Apart from this, the AO is of the opinion that such transactions cannot be
accommodated without payment of commission of a minimum of 3% to entry
operators and hence he has added Rs. 1,55,243/- u/s. 69C of the Act. After
making the addition, the AO has initiated penalty proceedings u/s. 271(1)(c) of the Act and completed the assessment u/s. 143(3) of the Act. 15. Aggrieved by the order made by the AO, the assessee filed an appeal
before the Ld. CIT(Appeals) (the Ld. CIT(A) for short). Hence the Ld. CIT(A)
proceeded with adjudicating the case which deals with exemption claimed by
assessee u/s. 10(38) of the Act. At page No. 22, para 6 deals with the
decision of the Ld. CIT(A). The Ld. CIT(A) allowed the appeal of the assessee
due to the following reasons :- 16. Aggrieved by the order of the Ld. CIT(A) who deleted the additions made
by the AO, the Revenue instituted an appeal with the following grounds of
appeal :- 17. On the day of hearing, Ld. DR heavily relied on the assessment order
and grounds of appeal and submitted that the order of Ld. AO may be
restored and the order of the Ld. CIT(A) may be set aside as the transactions
of assessee are bogus and make-believe arrangements to give a colour of
proper exemption u/s. 10(38) of the Act. It was argued by Ld. DR that the
documentation may be correct, but genuineness of transaction is absent in 11 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

this transaction, nor the Ld. CIT(A) touched various crucial aspects like price
rise and dip of share, company fundamentals lack such steep rise in the
scrip, buyers of shares have not responded nor filed Return of Income,
detailed note on operators, modus operandi to jack up the price of share, exit
operators, shell companies, report of Investigation Directorate, usage of shell
companies, theory of preponderance of probabilities etc. and hence
submitted that the order of the Ld. CIT(A) should be set aside and the order
of Ld. AO to be restored. 18. Per contra, Ld. AR of the assessee has argued that the additions were
made based on the surmises and conjectures and there is no documentary
proof that the assessee did anything illegal. His arguments are summed up
as follows :- K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F j) The Ld. AR filed a paper book which contained several cases-law for
 the proposition that the additions u/s. 68 and 69C cannot be
 sustained under similar circumstances. Decision of Bench 19. The case was heard extensively on the day of hearing from both sides.
Before deciding the genuineness of claim of LTCG u/s. 10(38) , a brief macro
background is necessary. From the detailed assessment order passed by Ld.
AO, the following facts emerge : K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F 20. From the information available on record, after hearing both sides and
after the perusal of various case law on this issue of penny stock, it is
decided that the order of the Ld. CIT(A) is to be reversed for the following
reasons :- 21. Why the Order of Ld. CIT(A) is reversed :- 22. Decision on the arguments of Ld. AR of assessee : 23. We have perused all these cases relied on by the Ld. AR of the
assessee and certain facts are distinguishable in those cases, compared to
the case on hand :- 11,60,288/- but this person neither responded to the notice of Ld.
 AO nor any Return of Income was filed by him. Thus, the Ld. AO did 15 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

 not totally depend only on the report of Kolkata Investigation
 Directorate while making addition. b) The Ld. AO, brought lot of evidences -direct and indirect-in our
 impugned case. He has culled out the details of exit providers
 details, names of more than 70 shell companies utilised to route
 through the unaccounted money etc. which is absent in all these
 cases relied on by assessee. c) The Ld. AO, has demonstrated in the assessment order about price
 movement of scrip, the financial fundamentals of the company
 which shows that there is hardly any business and EPS is close to
 "Zeor" and the price claimed by the assessee cannot command such
 huge price in the normal course of share market. This aspect was
 not the subject matter of any of these 26 cases relied on by
 assessee. d) One of the case relied on by assessee, Shree Dilip B. Jiwarajka
 where Hon'ble ITAT passed order in favour of the assessee because
 the SEBI has revoked the orders passed against the operator of that
 scrip. But, in our impugned case, not only SEBI, even the Securities
 Appellate Tribunal (SAT) confirmed the order to demonstrate that
 the price of scrip was rigged, as mentioned by Ld. AO in the
 assessment order. e) In the case of PCIT Vs. Ziauddin A. Siddique, Hon'ble Bombay High
 Court (relied on by assessee) passed an order in favour of the
 assessee, in the case of penny stock, because the Ld. AO did not
 disbelieve the documentation involving sale and purchase of shares.
 In our impugned case, the Ld. AO, has conducted enquiries with
 alleged buyers of shares by issuing notices u/s. 133(6) of the Act
 and found that the buyers have not responded to the notices. He
 further enquired with the AO of one of the alleged buyer of shares of
 huge chunk and paid more than Rs. 11 lakhs did not even file a
 Return of Income. Thus, the AO disbelieved the version of sale of 16 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

 shares and made addition in our case. In fact, the Ld. AO
 extensively mentioned the role of brokers, operators, exit providers,
 shell companies etc. So, the facts are distinguishable. f) In none of the 26 cases relied on by Ld. AR, the SEBI has barred
 and penalised the operators and SAT has confirmed the
 manipulation tactics, unlike in our case, as mentioned in
 assessment order. g) With respect to the arguments that transactions done through
 banking system, through stock exchange etc, it is pertinent to note
 that these make-believe arrangements should not be taken on the
 face value. In the case of Kachwala Gems, Hon'ble Supreme Court
 has held that payment by cheque is not conclusive. Similarly, if the
 argument of assessee that the shares bought through stock
 exchange, is to be considered as genuine, there is no need of
 watchdog organisation like SEBI and Appellate Authority like SAT,
 where they confirmed the penal action on manipulation tactic of
 some of brokers/operators involved in penny stocks. h) In the case of Rajesh Babulal Vardhan, (case relied on by Ld. AR of
 assessee), the share price of the penny stock was in the range of Rs.
 360/- to 600/- per share for a period of 15 months, and it appears
 for this reason, the Hon'ble ITAT gave relief to assessee unlike in our
 assessee's case-the high price was reflected in stock exchange for a
 very short span and then the share price became less than Rs. 2/-
 for a long time, and stayed there. Thus, this case is also
 distinguishable on facts. i) As far as the contention of not providing cross-examination of entry
 operators to the assessee, it was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court
 that right to cross-examination is not part of principles of natural
 justice and this will not vitiate the proceedings of assessment and
 the cases are discussed elsewhere in this order. K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F j) The case of PCIT Vs. Kuntala Mahapatra, relied on by Ld. AR of
 assessee which was decided by Hon'ble Supreme Court, is not
 applicable here as in that case, only the SLP of Revenue was
 dismissed. But, in similar circumstances, Hon'ble Supreme Court
 dismissed SLP of assessee in Suman Poddar's case. k) In this case of Indravadan Jain, Hon'ble Bombay High Court, the
 assessee relied on the issue of penny stock u/s. 10(38) because no
 opportunity was provided to the assessee and assessee was not
 directly involved in price rigging of share price. In our case on hand,
 the Ld. AO gave several details in the assessment order regarding
 structured deals and pre-conceived orders in these shares,
 synchronized timings while buying on the floor of stock exchange,
 buying shares by same person from assessee, buyers of shares from
 our assessee were not responding to assessee etc. shows active
 involvement of assessee in artificially increasing the price of shares.
 Moreover, the Ld. AO did not make addition only based on the
 statements of operators of shares. He made the addition taking into
 all circumstances mentioned in the assessment order and thus the
 case is distinguishable on facts. We would place our reliance on
 Sanjay Bimalchand Jain, 89 Taxman.com 196(Bom), where Hon'ble
 Jurisdictional High Court upheld the addition of Ld. AO regarding
 the penny stock and denied the long term capital gain exemption
 claim u/s. 10(38) because the penny stock appreciated multi-fold
 without fundamentals of company and the facts are similar to our
 impugned case and hence the addition is upheld. 24. The order of Ld. AO, is confirmed for the following reasons and the
judicial pronouncements :- 10(38) of the Act. Similarly, there is no denial by the assessee that
 more than 70 shell companies were utilised to route through the
 unaccounted money as mentioned by Ld. AO in the assessment
 order. There is also no denial that all purchase and sale of shares
 are pre-conceived and pre-structured ones in the stock exchanges
 as demonstrated by Ld. AO, because no prudent investor would buy
 the shares at such exorbitant rates when our impugned assessee
 sells the shares especially when there are virtually no commercial
 operations in the company for almost 5 years and there are no
 profits. c) Let us analyse the company of M/s. Splash Media and Infra
 Company shares claimed to have been purchased by our assessee
 at Rs. 4/- and claimed to have sold @ approximately Rs. 100/-
 (after adjusting bonus and split of shares). The total shareholding
 sold by assessee is 1,80,000 after considering the bonus and split.
 The Ld. AO in his tabular form has analysed the financials of
 company for 5 years which shows the total turnover is Rs. 8 crores
 for 5 years, net profit is Rs. 2 crores, no raw material was
 purchased, no power and fuel expenses were mentioned, the EPS
 ranges between 0.07 to 0.01, gross block of assets between Rs. 4
 lakhs to Rs. 44 lakhs, no opening and closing stock, no work-in-
 progress, no sundry debtors and creditors in the profit and loss 19 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

 account and Balance-Sheet. With such weak fundamentals no
 share can command a price of Rs. 100/- (after adjusting bonus and
 split shares) in stock exchange, i.e. an appreciation of almost
 2500% within a short span of less than 2 years. These facts amply
 prove that the share prices were manipulated to the advantage of
 assessee to claim false LTCG. When seeing from this background
 coupled with statements of operators, existence of more than 70
 shell companies found during search and seizure operations,
 picture becomes clear that the transactions are tainted and a
 fraudulent claim u/s. 10(38) was made by the assessee. d) The Ld. AR of assessee did not controvert the findings of AO that the
 transactions are pre-conceived and structured, i.e. the purchasers
 and sellers have colluded to see that desired price is shown on the
 platform of stock exchange. Otherwise, it is impossible that such
 huge share holding was liquidated within very short span. The fact
 of collusion and existence of exit providers are hand in glove with
 buyers also were also not controverted. e) The Ld. AO has conducted enquiries with the AO of alleged buyer of
 shares and found that the buyer who bought 45600 shares for Rs.
 11,60,250/-was not even filing the Return of Income. The Ld. AO
 has issued notices u/s. 133(6) of the Act to all buyers of shares
 from our assessee and none of them have responded when they
 were asked to come to I.T. Office with copy of Return of Income,
 bank statement etc. In such circumstances, the addition u/s. 68 as
 unexplained cash credit is squarely applicable. f) A very significant point, as noted by Ld. AO, is that not only
 Investigation Wing of Kolkata Income Tax Department, but also the
 watchdog of share market- Securities, and Exchange Board of India,
 (SEBI) has classified M/s. Splash Media and Infra Ltd. as penny 20 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

 stock, found this syndicate of people acts as accommodation/
 entry/exit providers where they chose certain scrips and jack up the
 share price to provide fictitious capital gain/loss to various parties.
 At page 25 of assessment order, Ld. AO has mentioned that SEBI
 has restrained these persons from share market for a considerable
 period. The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has also upheld the
 findings of SEBI in this regard. None of these facts mentioned by Ld.
 AO were controverted by Ld. AR at any point of time. Hence, all
 these transactions of issuing and getting cheques, obtaining brokers
 contract notes, transaction through stock exchange and demat
 account done by our impugned assessee are nothing but make-
 believe arrangements and colourable devices to bring their
 unaccounted money into their books of account as exempt income. g) The menace of obtaining bogus LTCG through penny stocks was
 recognised by Central Board of Direct Taxes which works under
 Ministry of Finance, and it has directed the Department to contest
 the decision of CIT(A)/ITAT/HC on merits by filing appeals in penny
 stock cases, even if the tax effect is less than the threshold fixed for
 filing appeals. h) Thus, from the cases relied on in this order, it can be seen that the
 scam of penny stocks had spread its wings from Delhi to Chennai
 and Gujarat to Gauhati, i.e., all over country, the Tribunals/ courts
 held the decisions in favour of Department, in some cases,
 SEBI/SAT have penalised the operators, thousands of assessees
 have opted for Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme by withdrawing the claims
 of penny stock, pending in appeal at that time. Subsequent to this
 scam, the period of holding the share to claim long term capital gain
 and taxing the same were introduced in the Income Tax Act with
 suitable amendments. Central Board of Direct Tax has amended its
 circular and directed all Assessing Officers to file further appeals 21 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

 and contest the matter in ITAT and Courts, irrespective of monitory
 limits involved in the claims of assessee. 25. Judicial pronouncements :- The assessee's contention that investigation report of DGIT(Inv) Kolkata
was not furnished to her and cross-examination opportunity was not
provided to her was dealt by Hon'ble Kolkata High Court and it was held that
these issues will not vitiate proceedings of Revenue nor they are required to
be given to assessee because the respective AOs have clearly mentioned the
nature of investigation done states that the investigation was commenced not
from assessee's end but the individuals who dealt with these penny stocks
were targeted. It is equally true that the assessee could not establish the
prejudice caused to them for not giving opportunity to cross-examine them.
(Paras 55 to 67 of Hon'ble High Court decision). Thus, not giving cross-examination opportunity did not and would not
vitiate the proceedings as whatever information to be given to each assessee,
was already given and necessary notices u/s. 143(2) / 142(1) mentioned
required particulars by the concerned Assessing Officers. Thus, full
opportunity was afforded to the assessee, held by Hon'ble Kolkata High
Court. The next argument of the assessee is that they were not implicated in
the Investigation report also does not hold much water, it was held in the
following words :- The Hon'ble Kolkata High Court has dealt with this issue of section 68 by relying on various decisions like N.R. Portfolio Pvt. Ltd., A Govindarajulu
Mudaliar Vs. CIT 205 ITR 802 (SC), Full Bench decision of Sophia Finance
Ltd. 205 ITR 98 (Del), Nova Promoters Finlease (P) Ltd. 342 ITR 169 (Del), CIT
Vs. Nipun Builders Ltd. 350 ITR 407 and held that mere issuance of cheque
and providing bank detail would not be sufficient to discharge the liability of
assessee in view of the link between entry providers and incriminating
evidence. In this case of Swati Bajaj, Hon'ble Kolkata High Court has mentioned
that several assessees who were involved in this penny stock scam all over
the country availed Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme, paid taxes and withdrew their
appeals pending at various stages at that time. In this case of Swati Bajaj, the Ld. CIT(A) has confirmed the addition
made by AO by holding that payments were made through bank,
transactions were done through stock exchange and other features are only 24 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

apparent features and the real feature were manipulated with abnormal price
upwards and sudden dip thereafter and held that the transactions would fall
within the realm of suspicious and dubious transaction. Thus, the Ld. CIT(A)
concludes by holding that considering the facts of the assessee's case and the
preponderance of probabilities against the assessee, the entire capital gains
demand has to be treated as fictitious and bogus more particularly when the
assessee has not furnished cogent evidence to explain how the shares in an
unknown company jumped up so fast and such fantastic sale price was not
at all possible when there was no economic or financial basis to justify the
price rise and therefore affirmed the order passed by the AO. Aggrieved by
the order of the Ld. CIT(A), the assessee filed appeal to ITAT, and then the
matter travelled to High Court and Hon'ble Kolkata High Court delivered a
landmark judgement on the lines mentioned above. As the contentions and
issues are similar to that of our impugned assessee, reliance is placed on this
decision. (2) In the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain, 89 Taxman.com 196 (Bom),
Hon'ble Bombay High Court held as follows :- In this Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court's case, the broker did not
 respond to the notices issued by the AO, whereas in our impugned case,
 the alleged buyers of shares did not respond to notices issued by Ld. AO.
 As the circumstances are similar, addition made by the AO had to be
 confirmed. In this case of Mr. Sanjay Jain also, assessee was not afforded
 any right to cross-examination, and assessee claimed that the
 transactions were done through bank and stock exchange, but Hon'ble
 Bombay High Court still confirmed the addition made by the AO. K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

(3) Similarly, Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of NDR Promoters (P)
Ltd. held that where the assessee created lot of paper work to camouflage the
transactions of bogus nature to look like genuine, there is no need of cross-
examination. (4) Reliance is placed on Hon'ble Delhi High Court's decision of Suman
Poddar Vs. PCIT , where it was held that the share transactions were bogus
because the company whose shares allegedly purchased were of penny stock
and this decision was affirmed by Hon'ble Supreme Court vide 112
taxman.com 330 (SC)(2019). The Hon'ble court has opined that in this type of
cases, cross-examination opportunity is not required because statements and
other material found in the course of investigation were used as a
corroborative material to strengthen the findings of AO. The AO made the
addition based on several factors and analysis to prove that there is no
genuineness in the transaction and utilised the statements of operators as
corroborative evidence only. (5) Reliance is placed on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of SEBI Vs. Kishore R. Ajmera (2016) 66 taxman.com 288 for the
proposition that direct evidence is not material, and it was held as follows:- (6) In the case of CIT Vs. Pushpa Malpani , Hon'ble Gujarat High Court,
dismissed the Revenue's appeal in the case of Penny stock on the ground
that the broker in question was not banned by SEBI. Conversely, in our case
on hand, the AO, in the impugned assessment order has mentioned that the
operators were banned from trading for a particular period. Hence, the
addition made by the AO on this ground, is confirmed. (7) Similarly, in the case of SEBI Vs. Mega Corporation Ltd. 136
taxman.com 333, while dealing with a case of income earned through price
manipulations of share, held that right to cross-examination of a person who
gave a complaint, was rejected by Hon'ble Supreme Court. (8) In the case of PCIT Vs. NRA Iron and Steel (P) Ltd., 110 taxman.com
491, Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the creditworthiness of the buyer
has to be established even though transaction is by cheque, as one of the
tests regarding applicability to section 68 of the Act. The accommodation
entries were held to be bogus by Hon'ble Supreme Court. In the case on
hand, the Ld. AO has issued notices to the alleged buyers of shares claimed
by assessee, but it was mentioned in the assessment order that none of these
buyers have responded to the notices. The Ld. AO even went to the extent of
finding out the assessment details of buyers with the concerned AO and
found that one of them is non-filer even though he bought shares worth Rs.
11.5 lakhs at one go from our assessee. On this count also, the addition
made by the AO is confirmed. (9) In the case of Smt. Thara Kumari Vs. PCIT, Hon'ble Madras High Court
upheld the addition made by the AO by disallowing the exemption claimed by
assessee u/s. 10(38) because the price of scrip M/s. Luminaries Technologies
Ltd., was artificially jacked up after referring to the report of Investigation
Directorate of Kolkata. Similar is the scrip "Splash Media & Infra Ltd." in the 27 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

case on hand and accordingly reliance is placed on this decision to uphold
the addition made by AO. (10) In the case of CIT Vs. Nova Promoters Finlease (P) Ltd. 18 taxman.com
217 ( Del) and Kachwala Gems Vs. CIT (SC ), the Hon'ble Courts have held
that payment by cheque is not conclusive proof. In our case, the Ld. AR of
assessee claimed that the transactions were done through cheque. But, the
"test of genuineness" still comes into play. When Ld. AO issued notices u/s.
133(6) of the Act, none of so-called buyers of shares from our assessee have
responded nor did they file returns of income even though the sale
consideration claimed to have been exceeded Rs. 10 lakhs. (11) In the case of Udit Kalra ITA No. 220/2009, Hon'ble Delhi High Court
held that the company had meagre resources at disposal, negligible profit,
but there was unusual and very high growth in the share price which does
not support the same, the transaction was held to be sham. (12) In the case of NR Portfolio (P) Ltd. Vs. CIT ITA No. 1018/2011 dated
22.11.2013, Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that even though the money
was received through cheques, it was observed that the same did not reflect
actual genuine business activity. The subscribers did not have their own
profit making apparatus. It was held that the bank accounts did not reflect
the creditworthiness and genuineness. In our case too, the buyers of shares
did not respond to the notices issued by Ld. AO, not to speak of confirming
the transaction. So, the contention of Ld. AR of the assessee that the
transaction is through cheque, banking channels come to the rescue of
assessee in terms of addition by AO. Moreover, the existence of Exit Providers
and shell companies give rise to the thought of sham transaction. (13) In the case of Sanat Kumar Vs. ACIT Delhi, Circle 36(1), Hon'ble ITAT
Delhi Bench has held that the so-called sale proceed of shares received and
claimed as exempt u/s. 10(38) was held to be sham transaction because of 28 K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

huge price rise of shares at the time of sale despite the fact that company's
profits are negligible and did not support such price rise. (14) In the case of Satish Kishore Vs. ITO Delhi, ITA No. 1704 of 2019 dated
6.8.2019, Hon'ble ITAT Delhi has held that the transactions of penny stock
are manipulated ones to get arranged benefits to claim false exemption u/s.
10(38) because there is a cartel of brokers involved in jacking up the scrip
without corresponding profit/prospects of company. All the contentions of
assessee that he was not given cross-examination opportunity, transactions
were done through stock exchange and money received through banking
channels were considered and then only the exemption u/s. 10(38) was
denied because these affairs are all pre-conceived and arranged affairs which
lack genuineness. The same decision was rendered in the case of Sandeep
Bhargava Vs. ACIT Delhi , 109 taxman.com 174 (Delh-Trib). (15) In the case of Hitendra Ghadia Vs. DCIT, Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai, it was
held that issuance of bonus shares and splitting of shares happens only
when there is huge demand for shares and there is high profitability and
liquidity in shares. In these cases, to make share available to every interested
investor and to unleash the maximum possible value of shares, giant
companies of respective industries carry such type of practice. A company
with negligible investor base, negligible networth and profit and alomost
'Zero' EPS, adopting such type of splitting shares is not digestible from
layman point of view and all these are abnormal phenomena, especially when
the Kolkata Investigation Wing of Income Tax Department held such
transactions as sham only to get fraudulent benefit u/s. 10(38) of the Act.
The scrip which skyrocketed was classified by SEBI as "Penny Stock" like
that of our case. After taking into consideration all the contentions of
transactions through banking channel, stock market cross-examination
opportunity was not given were considered and it was held to be sham
transaction. Similar decisions were rendered by the Coordinate Benches of
Mumbai in the following cases too :- K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F

(18) In the case of M.K. Rajeshwari Vs. ITO , the coordinate bench of the
Tribunal has held that while dealing the issue of long-term capital gain
accrued to the assessee, one has to examine the financials of the company
whose shares were inflated within a short period and after the sharp rise in
the price of shares, it again comes down. It was held as follows :- (19) In the case of Rajkumar B. Agarwal vs. DCIT (ITAT Pune), Bench "B"
ITA Nos. 1648 & 1649/PUN/15, it was held as follows :- (20) In the case of Pooja Ajmani Vs. ITO (ITAT Delhi) April 25, 2019 ITA No.
5714/Del/2018, it was held as follows :- within 17 months of buying of shares at Rs.2,72,000/- a non-descript
 company incorporated in 2007 which got merged in 2009. This cannot be
 a case of intelligent investment or a simple tax planning to gain benefit of
 long term capital gains". ( 22) Mrs Vidya Reddy Vs. ITO International Taxation, Ward-1 (2), Chennai
ITAT, D Bench, Chennai

 "All these trading patterns show that LTCG admitted by the assessee is
 arranged one. The payment of Security Transaction Tax was to paint credit
 worthiness to the transaction and claim exemption u/s. 10(38) . In view of
 the information provided by the Investigation wing, Kolkata, the
 recommendations of SIT on Black money etc, the AO required the assessee
 to prove her claim of exemption. After considering her reply etc. held inter
 alia that it is clear that the assessee has manipulated the sale of shares
 within a span of time in collusion with the brokers in order to earn tax free
 exempt Long term capital gain on sale of shares u/s 10(38) etc". (23) In the case of Somnath Maini Vs. CIT 306 ITR 414, the Hon'ble Punjab
& Haryana High Court, held that claim of genuineness of transactions can be
rejected even if the assessee backs the same with evidence which is not
trustworthy. Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Chandigarh, in the
case of Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Som Nath Maini by
placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Durga Prasad More (2002) 3 BOMLR 747, 2003 (1) MhLj 420 has observed as
under :- (24) Chennai ITAT in the case of Rajnish Agarwal Vs. ACIT has held that
the penny stock of SRK Industries Ltd. is not having any financial strength of
its own and the sale and purchase of these shares were held to be sham and
LTCG u/s. 10(38) was denied to the assessee. (25) Similarly, in the cases decided by various Tribunals of the country as
mentioned below also, have held that the penny stocks without financial
fundaments to support the astronomical price rise of hundreds of times
within short span of one to two years, are sham transactions and LTCG claim u/s. 10(38) was denied to them : K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F 26. To sum up, the addition made by Ld. AO, is confirmed and the claim
of assessee LTCG u/s. 10(38) was denied because of : up. d) structured and pre-conceived trades on stock exchange. e) buyers of shares are not responding to notices issued by Ld. AO. f) existence of exit providers, extensive investigation done by
 Kolkata Investigation Wing done after search and seizure
 operations by Income Tax Department. g) ban order on the operators of this scrip by SEBI/SAT. h) circumstantial evidence like the assessee did not get such huge
 profit in any other scrip over a period of 5 years. i) involvement of more than 70 shell companies in the scam. j) the Ld. AO made the addition based on all the above factors,
 facts and circumstances cumulatively narrated in assessment
 order and statements of operators is only one of the factor and
 supplementary to the main arguments of Ld. AO. 27. The Ld. AO has also made an addition of 3% commission payment
for getting accommodation entries etc. from various intermediaries As he
is a beneficiary to claim exemption of LTCG u/s. 10(38) . This 3%
commission amounting to Rs. 1,55,243/- is quite reasonable. As it is
already held that the transaction as not genuine and only make-believe
agreement, the payment of commission is corollary, the addition towards
commission is also upheld. Hence, the additions made with respect to
LTCG and commission payment are hereby confirmed and the appeal of
Revenue is allowed. K ai l as h C h an d r a G u p t a H U F 28. The appeal of Revenue is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 26th July, 2024.