CORAM : HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE AJAY TEWARI

 ***

Present : Mr. V.K.Sibal, Sr. Advocate with
 Mr.Ram Kishan, Advocate
 for the petitioner. Mr.Ashish Rawal, Advocate
 for Mr.Anupam Gupta, Advocate
 for the respondents. *** 1. Whether Reporters of Local Newspapers may be allowed to see the
 judgment ? 2. To be referred to the Reporters or not ? 3. Whether the judgment should be reported in the Digest ? ***

AJAY TEWARI, J

 The petitioner has challenged the action of compulsorily

retiring him from service, by way of this writ petition. In September 1990, the petitioner was appointed as Lower

Division Clerk and promoted as Assistant in 1974. In the year 1980, he

was appointed as Law Officer and promoted as Under Secretary on

14.11.2000. By the impugned order dated 19.11.2003, he was compulsorily

retired. As per the document Annexure R-13, the petitioner's service record
 C.W.P No. 3954 of 2004 ::2:: 6. In a recent decision the Apex Court in State of U.P
 vs Yamuna Shankar Mishra and another , JT 1997(4)1,
 observed as follows :- Learned counsel for the petitioner has also relied upon a

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported as S.T.Ramesh v. State of

Karnataka & Another , JT 2007 (3) SC 532, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as follows :- and "outstanding" throughout his career. It is difficult
 to appreciate as to how it could become adverse
 during the period of 150 days for which the adverse
 remarks were made. Furthermore, despite such
 adverse remarks, the Government of Karnataka,
 considering his merit and ability and outstanding
 qualities, has already promoted the appellant as the
 Inspector General of Police. 39. Although, the remarks made by the reporting officer
 have been questioned by the appellant as if they had been
 made by Respondent 2, the Court still has to make an
 assessment as to whether the said remarks were merited
 by the appellant on account of his consistently good
 performance. Even his outburst against Respondent 2 in
 his representation appears to be a fallout of such
 presumption which was certainly not expected of an
 officer of the rank and caliber of the appellant. But, in
 our view, the same should not come in the way of an
 otherwise unblemished and outstanding career." Learned counsel has further relied on a judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in R.K.Panjetha vs. Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd and

another, (2002) 10 SCC 590, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held
 C.W.P No. 3954 of 2004 ::7:: 1981. The Committee also noted that Charge-sheet
 No.105/Conf.2902 dated 5-9-1997 is pending relating to
 the period while he remained posted as Executive
 Engineer (OP), Division Bahadurgarh for the reasons that
 he has violated the instructions and issued 217 works
 orders amounting to Rs. 20,28,243 for maintenance of
 work at Bahadurgarh such as dismantlement of
 distribution line, re-erection of lines, resagging of
 conductor and relaying of service cables. Whereas
 private labour was to be engaged only after fully
 deploying the departmental labour and in no case the
 maintenance was to be entrusted to the contractor labour,
 whereas the officer engaged the private labour for the
 above works in clear violation of Board's instructions.
 He is also responsible for making the excess payment to
 the private contractor amounting to Rs.1606 against 23
 works orders for construction works by taking excessive
 measurement through technical subordinates. And found that Shri R.K. Panjetha is unfit to be
 allowed extension beyond the age of 50 years. Accordingly, the appointing authority has carefully
 gone through the report of the Committee and on the
 basis of recommendations of the Committee come to the
 C.W.P No. 3954 of 2004 ::9:: Learned counsel for the petitioner has also relied upon M.S.Bindra vs Union of India and others , (1998) 7 SCC 310, wherein the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held as follows :- C.W.P No. 3954 of 2004 ::10:: "Want of any material is almost equivalent to the next
 situation that from the available materials, no reasonable
 man would reach such a conclusion. While evaluating the
 materials, the authority should not altogether ignore the
 reputation in which the officer was held till recently. The
 maxim "nemo firut repente turpissimus" (no one
 becomes dishonest all of a sudden) is not unexceptional
 but still it is a salutary guideline to judge human conduct,
 particularly in the field of administrative law. The
 authorities should not keep their eyes totally closed
 towards the overall estimation in which the delinquent
 officer was held in the recent past by those who were
 supervising him earlier. To dunk an officer into the
 puddle of "doubtful integrity", it is not enough that the
 doubt fringes on a mere hunch. That doubt should be of
 such a nature as would reasonably and consciously be
 entertainable by a reasonable man on the given material.
 Mere possibility is hardly sufficient to assume that it
 would have happened. There must be preponderance of
 probability for the reasonable man to entertain doubt
 regarding that possibility. Only then there is justification
 to ram an officer with the label "doubtful integrity". Learned counsel for the respondent has relied upon Baikuntha

Nath Das and Another vs Chief District Medical Officer, Baripada and

another ,m (1992) 2 SCC 299 to argue that in that case the Hon'ble Supreme

Court upheld an order of compulsory retirement even where it relied upon

uncommunicated adverse remarks. In State of Gujarat v. Umedbhai M.Patel , AIR 2001 SC 1109,
the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows :- In Union of India and others vs Lt. Gen Rajendra Singh Kadyan
and Another , (2000)6 SCC 698, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as
follows :- It is against this background of law that the factual matrix of

this case has to be examined. As far as the argument of counsel for the petitioner that the

petitioner was a whistle blower is concerned, the same is borne out from the

record. As a result of the complaint, filed by the petitioner, a scam

involving payment for filing of appeals running into lacs of rupees was

unearthed. It was found that appeals were being typed in the office of the

Legal Remembrancer and money was being charged for typing with the help

of fake bills of fake institutions. Although the Legal Remembrancer was

not directly indicted but it is not disputed that he was subsequently

repatriated and an FIR was lodged against his subordinates. In the

circumstances, the assertion that he was inimical towards the petitioner

cannot be lightly discarded. As noticed above, a perusal of the adverse

remarks also makes intriguing reading. The integrity has been held to be

doubtful not on the basis of any positive assertion but on the basis of a

negative assertion that the integrity as good cannot be ascertained. Though

in the written statement lots of detail regarding various negative aspects of

the petitioner's career have been detailed, yet it has not been denied that

notwithstanding these details, in last 10 years his record has been uniformly
 C.W.P No. 3954 of 2004 ::13::