“When all the dust is settled no one got hurt, no one got misled on the basis of a false Aadhaar, nobody incurred any kind of loss or prejudice,” Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani of the Delhi High Court noted in the case against journalist Debayan Roy for demonstrating the issues in Aadhaar enrollment. He asked both Roy and the state of Delhi’s lawyers to clarify when an offense deserves to be exempt from prosecution. Justice Bhambhani emphasized that at this stage he is only raising questions and not expressing his view. “I’m only raising questions because I’m not clear,” he reiterated.

This comes as a part of the legal battle between journalist Debayan Roy and the National Capital of Delhi. In March 2017 , journalist Debayan Roy attempted to demonstrate that one person could get two separate Aadhaar enrollment numbers using the same biometrics. While Roy successfully proved that one could do so, the Delhi Police filed an FIR against him under the Aadhaar Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The case went to the Delhi High Court in July 2017, but there have been no substantial orders in the matter so far.

According to a report by the Daily Pioneer, the Delhi Police registered the case against Roy under sections 34 and 35 of the Aadhaar (Targeted delivery of financial and other subsidies, benefits, and services) Act and Section 419 (Punishment for cheating by impersonation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC . Then, in 2020 , the Delhi Police added Sections 467 and 468 of the IPC to the FIR against Roy for allegedly forging a driving license to obtain an Aadhaar card. Under Section 34 of the Aadhaar Act, impersonating someone to enroll for an Aadhaar card is a criminal offense.

Under Section 35, anyone who with “the intention of causing harm or mischief to an Aadhaar number holder, or with the intention of appropriating the identity of an Aadhaar number holder changes or attempts to change any demographic information or biometric information of an Aadhaar number holder by impersonating or attempting to impersonate another person, dead or alive, real or imaginary, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.”

Instead of being an attempt to impersonate someone, Roy’s actions were an effort to show the issues at the Aadhaar enrollment centers. However, as MediaNama pointed out in 2017 , instead of fixing these issues, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) decided to take action against those pointing out issues in its systems. The same year, the UIDAI also took action against Skoch Group Chairman Sameer Kochhar, for allegedly spreading rumors about the vulnerabilities of Aadhaar on the internet.

While the court has not settled on any clear stance about this matter so far, the judgment in this case will be pertinent in establishing freedom of speech for journalists, whistleblowers or ethical hackers who seek to highlight issues with Aadhaar or any other such system. It could also influence how government agencies respond to anyone’s attempts to highlight harm in their systems.

Roy’s lawyers focused their defense against Section 35 of the Aadhaar Act which talks about the intent behind impersonation. They mentioned that traditionally the law considered people’s offenses based on the act itself instead of the intention. However, this stance has changed since the Vadilal Panchal judgment of 1960 .

Post this judgment, the Vadilal principle was established which has since been adopted under the defamation law. It states that whether or not someone has committed an offense should be based on both their actions and intentions. “My submission is, [that] both elements of the crime never did exist. They’re [Delhi’s representatives] not saying that it existed. They are saying, you’re doing the act is enough irrespective of the purpose you did it for,” Advocate Sidharth Luthra mentioned in court.

Further, Luthra pointed out Section 81 of the IPC to the court. This section states that an act that is likely to cause harm but is done without criminal intent is not an offense.

“The purpose is neither to cause any loss to the Aadhaar of the government, not to damage the system, not to destroy any property, not to do anything. The purpose was exposure of a defect in the system,” Luthra explained in the context of Section 81.

This section of the IPC includes illustrations about situations where a person may commit an offense to prevent imminent harm. Justice Bhambhani questioned whether the harm that Roy sought to prevent was of such nature and so imminent as to justify the offense he committed.

Luthra mentioned that Roy wrote to the UIDAI highlighting the sting he conducted on Aadhaar enrollment centers and the gap in the Aadhaar system. Luthra established a timeline of events wherein Roy sought permission from Radhakrishnan Nair, the managing editor of CNN-News18, to run the sting operation. He explained that Roy followed prevalent guidelines and obtained consent, and did not go to get the Aadhaar Card of his own accord. Luthra’s argument was that Roy followed the proper protocol to conduct the sting instead of just committing an offense.

Justice Bhambhani mentioned that at first sight, one can argue that Roy did violate Section 34 of the Aadhaar Act. He added that Section 34 does not have an element of intention.

“However, was it an offense properly so-called, or does the fact that it was the manner in which it went forward, the fact that he took permission, nobody takes permission to say that Mr. Managing Director or Mr. Editor, I’m going to commit a murder, and he says signs of, Okay, go, do it.  So the manner in which it has gone about, does it disclose the commission of an offense upon a reading of 81?” he questioned, asking for assistance from lawyers on both sides for more clarity on this question.

The lawyer representing UIDAI, Anirban Sen argued that Section 81 does not apply here. This is because this section deals with extraneous circumstances that have been set in motion without the chief actor’s (in this case Roy’s) involvement. He brought up the illustrations in the IPC about situations where it is applicable, which include a ship captain running down a boat to prevent hitting another, or someone pulling down houses to avoid the spread of fire. To this, Justice Bhambhani said that he did not think that the illustrations applied to this case, especially because sting operations are a new device that did not exist before.

He added that Roy nullified any falsification of information he may have carried out as a part of his sting by obtaining his own legitimate Aadhaar card. “If you put all else aside, put aside the law, put aside the section, was he committing an offense?” he questioned.

“Media personnel who conduct sting operations, including those who authorise it, must be very careful that the sting operator does not end up participating in statutory offences. Not all situations merit sting operations. The rights of a media personnel is the same as that of an ordinary citizen,” Sen told MediaNama.

The court will hear the case again on March 17.

Note: The story was updated on February 25, 2025, at 8:21 PM to clarify that Anirban Sen is representing UIDAI.

Note: The story was updated on February 26, 2025, at 3:02 PM to add a quote by Anirban Sen.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event