1. U.P. Subordinate Service Selection Commission (hereinafter referred to as, 'the Commission') has been established by the State of Uttar Pradesh for recruitment etc. to subordinate services in different departments of the State, pursuant to The U.P. Subordinate Service Selection Commission Act, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as, 'the Act of 2014'), vide Act No. 20 of 2014. A notification, thereafter, was issued on 15.12.2014, exercising powers conferred under section 2 of the Act of 2014; whereby, all appointments in the grade pay between Rs. 1900- Rs. 4600 in different departments of the State were brought within the purview of the Commission. The Commission, consequently, issued Advertisement No. 14 of 2015, initiating recruitment for 1,377 posts of Junior Engineer and other technical posts for various State Departments. Last date for submitting application was notified as 14.10.2015. Procedure for making appointment, qualification and eligibility alongwith reservation for different categories were specified in the advertisement itself. The prospective candidates were required to apply online, by specifying their credentials as well as the category etc. 2. Clause 11 of the advertisement specified that reservation would be admissible to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward category candidates in accordance with the provisions of the U.P. Public Services (Reservation for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes) Act, 1994 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Reservation Act of 1994') and the applicable executive instructions. Similarly, horizontal reservation was also provided for specified categories in accordance with the provisions of The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Physically Handicapped, Dependents of Freedom Fighters and Ex-Servicemen) Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Reservation Act of 1993'). Horizontal reservation for women, with which we are concerned herein, stands specified at 20% in the respective vertical category. Such horizontal reservation has been provided pursuant to a Government Order dated 26.2.1999 as modified vide subsequent Govt. Orders dated 30.8.1999 and 9.1.2007. 3. Horizontal reservation has been restricted to the dependents of freedom fighter/disabled person (only against specified post)/ex-serviceman, and women who are original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh alone. Clause 14 of the advertisement contains general instructions. Sub-clause (3) thereof provides that candidates, who are not the original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh, will not be entitled to vertical and horizontal reservations. Clause 14(3) of the advertisement reads as under: 4. Sub-clause (14) of clause 14 of the advertisement also reiterates the above stipulation while clarifying that in case of women candidate, the certificate of original resident of State would be acceptable from paternal side. Sub-clause(14) of clause 14 of the advertisement is reproduced herein below: 5. The advertisement further provides that applicants would be allowed to appear in the written examination provisionally, on the basis of information feeded in the online application form and if it is found, at the time of scrutiny, that applicant was not eligible in terms of the advertisement for appointment to the post, then his/her candidature would be rejected and where recommendation has already been made to the Department concerned for grant of appointment to the candidate concerned, the same shall be withdrawn. Clause 15(9) of the advertisement which provides the above is thus reproduced hereinunder:- 6. The Commission proceeded with making of recruitment to the advertised posts and ultimately, a select list was published on 25.05.2016. Orders of appointment were also issued to the selected candidates by the Irrigation Department of the State of U.P. on 19.08.2016 and the selected candidates were allowed to join as Junior Engineers in different regions/circles/offices. Appointment order, issued under the signatures of the Chief Engineer (Project and Employee) of the Irrigation Department dated 19.08.2016, is on record. 7. It transpires that certain complaints were received by the Commission regarding inaccurate compliance of horizontal reservation in the recruitment in question, and when no decision was taken, the matter was taken to the Lucknow Bench of this Court vide Writ Petition (SS) No. 29001 of 2017. Discrepancies were alleged to have been caused in the recruitment, while applying reservation inasmuch as ineligible candidates were appointed against posts earmarked for women reservation. The writ petition came to be disposed of in view of the statement made by the learned counsel for the Commission that as soon as the Commission is constituted (at the relevant point of time the Chairman and four members of the Commission had already resigned), a decision would be taken in respect of grievance raised, by passing a reasoned and speaking order, within six weeks. It is pursuant to such undertaking given that the Commission has proceeded to modify the result previously published on 25.05.2016, whereby 107 candidates, who had been earlier selected, were removed from the select list and 107 new candidates figured in the select list published on 28.04.2018. It is this modified select list, published on 28.04.2018, which is under challenge in this petition. Petitioners are those candidates who had already been appointed under the earlier select list but are out of the select list now in the revised result so published. Prayer is made for issuing a direction to the respondents to allow them to work pursuant to the appointment already offered to them and to quash the revised select list. 8. The modified select list is challenged, primarily, on the ground that no notice or opportunity has been offered to the affected persons; that none of the selected candidates were made a party to the litigation before the Lucknow Bench, and therefore, the observation of this Court for the Commission to revisit the issue ought not to be implemented to the detriment of selected candidate; petitioners have not indulged in any misrepresentation or fraud and therefore appointments already offered to them could not be revoked; the decision taken by the Commission to revise its result after nearly two years, in the facts and circumstances, is wholly arbitrary. Challenge to select list is also made on the ground that benefit of women reservation cannot be confined only to such female candidates who are the original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh. 9. A counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the Commission and its officials contending that it had received requisition from eight different Departments for appointment against 1,377 different posts. Out of these 1,377 posts, about 757 posts were of Junior Engineer (Civil), 18 posts were of Junior Engineer (Mechanical and Electrical), 59 posts were of Tracer and 543 technical posts were in the Transport Department. The requisition of Transport Department was subsequently withdrawn and therefore, recruitment was finalized against 834 posts only. Out of these 834 posts, 757 posts were of Junior Engineer and appointments were made by applying vertical and horizontal reservation. The posts were appropriated to different categories i.e. 131 appointments were to be made from Scheduled Castes candidates, 63 from Scheduled Tribes candidates, 155 from OBC candidates and 408 were from unreserved category. 20% horizontal reservation provided to women required recruitment of 151 women candidate, while, 21 posts were earmarked for physically handicapped persons; 37 for ex-servicemen and 15 posts for dependants of freedom fighters. 10. According to the Commission, due to inadvertent error, the requisite posts meant for female candidates under the horizontal reservation quota, were left unfilled and erroneously filled with the appointment of male candidates. The Commission, therefore, decided to rectify its result. Against 151 posts, reserved for women candidates in horizontal reservation category, only 75 candidates were recommended for appointment and that, 79 posts meant for women reservation were still left vacant. The Commission, although realized these discrepancies, but as the Chairman as well as 4 out of 5 Members were not available having resigned, the Commission could not take a decision. It was only on 22.01.2018 that the Chairman and Members were appointed and the Commission became functional. That a meeting was convened on 21.01.2018, wherein a decision was taken to withdraw the recommendation for appointment made in favour of male candidates, who were appointed against the posts reserved for women under the horizontal reservation and to appoint women candidates who were entitled to such appointment in law. 11. These writ petitions thus question the implementation of horizontal reservation in the recruitment. Details of all such connected petitions have been given in paragraph no.3(h) of the counter affidavit filed by the Commission in the leading writ petition no.11039 of 2018. 12. Another facet of challenge in these petitions relate to legality and virus of clause (v) of the Government Order dated 09.01.2007, which restricts benefit of horizontal reservation to only those women candidates who are original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh. The challenge to the aforesaid condition in the Government Order is laid by relying upon Article 16(2) of the Constitution of India, which makes it impermissible to deny public appointments on the ground of place of birth and residence, or any of them. It is also contended that in the constitutional scheme, any law, relating to grant of reservation on account of residence could be made only by the Parliament by virtue of Article 16(3) of the Constitution of India and that Clause (4) of the Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007 is wholly without jurisdiction. 13. 107 previously selected candidates, who have gone out of select list, on account of impugned revised list, can thus be placed in two categories,i.e., (i) Women candidates who, although were granted benefit of women reservation in the previously selected list, but, as they were not the original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh, have been denied consideration in the revised list in the horizontal reservation meant for women; and (ii) Those male candidates who came to be appointed against the vacancies earmarked, otherwise, for women candidates in the horizontal reservation quota. 14. It is these two categories of persons who are before this Court in the present bunch of petitions, questioning the revised select list published by the Commission on 28.04.2018. 15. On the basis of the pleadings, exchanged between the parties, following issues arise for consideration in the present bunch of petitions:- 16. Reservation for women was introduced in the State of Uttar Pradesh pursuant to a Government Order issued on 26.2.1999. The Government Order conveyed the decision taken by the State of Uttar Pradesh to grant 20% reservation to women in public employment by direct recruitment. This reservation was to be in the category of horizontal reservation and the selected women would be adjusted to the category to which she otherwise belongs. In the absence of requisite women candidates available, the post could otherwise be filled by a male candidate. The Government Order dated 26.2.1999 is reproduced hereinafter:- 17. The Government Order dated 26.2.1999 has been amended vide subsequent Government Orders dated 30.8.1999 and 9.1.2007. Clause 4 of the Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007 provided that reservation to women would be restricted to the original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh. The Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007 is also reproduced hereinafter:- 18. During the course of hearing, an argument was raised by Sri Ashok Khare, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners that the decision contained in the Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007 is actually not backed by any decision of the State Government in that regard inasmuch as the Cabinet has not taken any such decision. Having noticed such argument, a direction was issued on 27.7.2018 requiring the Additional Advocate General of the State to produce original records relating to issuance of Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007. The original records have been produced and have been examined. A decision has infact been taken at the competent level, which is duly signed by the then Chief Minister of the State, and only thereafter the Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007 has been issued. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner was also allowed to peruse the records and the argument, that the Govt. Order is not based upon any decision taken at competent level, has not been pressed any further. While noticing the events in that regard and the fact that issue has not been pressed after the records have been produced, the plea is consigned. 19. The Government Order dated 9.1.2007 providing 20% horizontal reservation to women derives its origin from Article 15(3) of the Constitution of India. Article 15 of the Constitution of India is consequently reproduced hereinafter:- 20. The issue as to whether reservation for women in public employment would be valid in our constitutional scheme has been examined by the Apex Court in Govt. of A.P. vs. P. B. Vijaykumar , (1995) 4 SCC 520. Para 5 to 9 & 11 of the judgment throw light on the issue in hand and are reproduced hereinafter:- The object of the First Amendment was to bring Articles 15 and 29 in line with Article 16(4). After the introduction of Article 15(4) , reservation of seats in educational institutions has been upheld in the case of M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore [1963 Supp 1 SCR 439 : AIR 1963 SC 649] and a number of other cases which need not be referred to here. Under Article 15(4) orders reserving seats for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes in Engineering, Medical and other technical colleges, have been upheld. Under Article 15(4) , therefore, reservations are permissible for the advancement of any backward class of citizens or of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. Since Article 15(3) contains an identical special provision for women, Article 15(3) would also include the power to make reservations for women. In fact, in the case of Indra Sawhney v. Union of India [1992 Supp (3) SCC 217] this Court (in para 846) rejected the contention that Article 15(4) which deals with a special provision, envisages programmes of positive action while Article 16(4) is a provision warranting programmes of positive discrimination. This Court observed: (SCC pp. 755-56)
 
"We are afraid we may not be able to fit these provisions into this kind of compartmentalisation in the context and scheme of our constitutional provisions. By now, it is well settled that reservations in educational institutions and other walks of life can be provided under Article 15(4) just as reservations can be provided in services under Article 16(4). If so, it would not be correct to confine Article 15(4) to programmes of positive action alone. Article 15(4) is wider than Article 16(4) inasmuch as several kinds of positive action programmes can also be evolved and implemented thereunder (in addition to reservations) to improve the conditions of SEBCs, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, whereas Article 16(4) speaks only of one type of remedial measure, namely, reservation of appointments/posts." This Court has, therefore, clearly considered the scope of Article 15(4) as wider than Article 16(4) covering within it several kinds of positive action programmes in addition to reservations. It has, however, added a word of caution by reiterating M.R. Balaji [1963 Supp 1 SCR 439 : AIR 1963 SC 649] to the effect that a special provision contemplated by Article 15(4) like reservation of posts and appointments contemplated by Article 16(4) , must be within reasonable limits. These limits of reservation have been broadly fixed at 50% at the maximum. The same reasoning would apply to Article 15(3) which is worded similarly. 9. 	In the light of these constitutional provisions, if we look at Rule 22-A(2) it is apparent that the rule does make certain special provisions for women as contemplated under Article 15(3). Rule 22-A(2) provides for preference being given to women to the extent of 30% of the posts, other things being equal. This is clearly not a reservation for women in the normal sense of the term. Reservation normally implies a separate quota which is reserved for a special category of persons. Within that category appointments to the reserved posts may be made in the order of merit. Nevertheless, the category for whose benefit a reservation is provided, is not required to compete on equal terms with the open category. Their selection and appointment to reserved posts is independently on their inter se merit and not as compared with the merit of candidates in the open category. The very purpose of reservation is to protect this weak category against competition from the open category candidates. In the case of Indra Sawhney [1992 Supp (3) SCC 217] while dealing with reservations, this Court has observed: (SCC p. 751, para 836)
 
"It cannot also be ignored that the very idea of reservation implies selection of a less meritorious person. At the same time, we recognise that this much cost has to be paid, if the constitutional promise of social justice is to be redeemed." These remarks are qualified by observing that efficiency, competence and merit are not synonymous and that it is undeniable that nature has endowed merit upon members of backward classes as much as it has endowed upon members of other classes. What is required is an opportunity to prove it. It is precisely a lack of opportunity which has led to social backwardness, not merely amongst what are commonly considered as the backward classes, but also amongst women. Reservation, therefore, is one of the constitutionally recognised methods of overcoming this type of backwardness. Such reservation is permissible under Article 15(3). 11. 	We do not, however, find any reason to hold that this rule is not within the ambit of Article 15(3) , nor do we find it in any manner violative of Article 16(2) or 16(4) which have to be read harmoniously with Articles 15(1) and 15(3). Both reservation and affirmative action are permissible under Article 15(3) in connection with employment or posts under the State. Both Articles 15 and 16 are designed for the same purpose of creating an egalitarian society. As Thommen, J. has observed in Indra Sawhney case [1992 Supp (3) SCC 217] (although his judgment is a minority judgment), "Equality is one of the magnificent cornerstones of Indian democracy". We have, however, yet to turn that corner. For that purpose it is necessary that Article 15(3) be read harmoniously with Article 16 to achieve the purpose for which these articles have been framed." Subsequently in Union of India and others vs. K. P. Prabhakaran, (1997) 11 SCC 638, the Apex Court has endorsed the earlier view taken in P. B. Vijay Kumar 's case (supra) in para 2 of the judgment, which is reproduced hereinafter:- In Vijay Laxmi vs. Punjab University and others , (2003) 8 SCC 440 also the classification between male and female for certain posts has been found to be valid. 21. While emphasizing that State is empowered to take affirmative action and make special laws in favour of women, the Apex Court has observed that Article 15(3) must be interpreted liberally and given its full play. Reservation for women in matters of public employment has been reiterated in para 180 in Independent Thought vs. Union of India and others , (2017) 10 SCC 800. In view of the authoritative pronouncement of law by the Apex Court, as noted hereinabove, there can be no issue on the proposition that State has the right to make law providing reservation for women in public employment and the Govt. Order, in that regard, would be valid. The policy statement contained in the Govt. Orders dated 26.2.1999 and 9.1.2007 would otherwise qualify to be law in terms of Article 13 of the Constitution of India. The issue, however, that arises for consideration in the facts and circumstances of the present case is whether the State of U.P. is empowered to make a law providing reservation for such women candidates who are original residents of the State of U.P., alone? 22. Article 16 of the Constitution of India provides for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment and is reproduced hereinafter:- 23. Sri A. N. Tripathi and Ashok Khare, learned Senior Counsels for the petitioners in this bunch of writ petitions have essentially contended that restriction on account of place of birth, residence, or any of them, in the matter relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State would be hit by Article 16(2) of the Constitution of India and would otherwise be beyond the legislative competence of the State of Uttar Pradesh by virtue of Article 16(3) of the Constitution which confers such jurisdiction only upon the Parliament. The argument is that the condition in the Govt. Order as also in the advertisement for grant of reservation to women who are the original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh would be covered in the express "place of birth, residence, or any of them" and would be unconstitutional. Clause 4 of the Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007, which introduces such a construction, would equally be unconstitutional. A declaration, therefore, has been sought that clause 4 of the Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007 be declared ultra vires. Reliance has been placed upon the judgment of the Apex Court in Kailash Chand Sharma vs. State of Rajasthan , AIR 2002 (SC) 2877. 24. The argument is countered by Sri Manish Goel, learned Additional Advocate General for the State by contending that requirement of original resident of State is akin to the concept of domicile, which is separate and distinct from the concept of place of birth, residence or any of them, occurring in Article 16 of the Constitution of India. Learned counsel further submits that the requirement of domicile of a particular State as being essential for grant of reservation in educational institutions has been affirmed by the Apex Court in D. P. Joshi vs. State of Madhya Bharat , AIR 1955 SC 334 and reiterated by the Constitution Bench in Saurabh Chaudri and others vs. Union of India , AIR 2004 SC 361 and thus the concept approved of while interpreting Article 15 of the Constitution of India cannot be treated as being inconsistent with the provisions contained in Article 16 of the Constitution of India. It is also argued that in view of the subsequent decision of Larger Benches, including Constitution Benches, the law laid down in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) would have to be treated as not laying down a good law on the subject. Reliance is placed upon a decision of the Apex Court in Jai Kaur v. Sher Singh , AIR 1960 SC 1118, wherein following observations have been made:- 25. Sri Goel also relies upon the averments contained in para 6 of the counter affidavit filed in Writ Petition No.28355 of 2017 to contend that women are grossly under represented in public employment in State of Uttar Pradesh and their rate of literacy is also extremely low. Justification is sought to be derived for restricting reservation for women to original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh, on the basis of statistics disclosed in para 6, which is extracted hereinafter:- 26. Before proceeding to deal with respective submissions advanced at the bar on the subject, it would be of necessity to refer to the previous judgments on the relevant subject. The judgment in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) arose out of a Full Bench judgment of the Rajasthan High Court in Kailash Chand Sharma vs. State of Rajasthan and others . The Full Bench of Rajasthan High Court had followed the previous Full Bench judgment in Deepak Kumar Suthar vs. State of Rajasthan reported in (1999) 2 RAJLR 692. The judgment of the Rajasthan High Court was with reference to a circular issued by the Department of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj dated 10.6.1998, which provided for the procedure to be followed for appointment to the vacant post of teachers during the year 1998-99 by way of direct recruitment. The circular provided for grant of 10 bonus marks to candidates who were domiciles of Rajasthan; 10 marks for residents of the same district; and 5 marks for the residents of rural area of the district. These marks were over and above the weightage to be provided for secondary examination, senior secondary examination and training qualification. Source of power for issuing such circular was traced to rule 273 of the Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Rules, 1996. The circular was assailed on the ground that awarding of bonus marks for the residents of the district concerned is constitutionally invalid on the touchstone of Article 14 read with Article 16 of the Constitution of India. The Full Bench of Rajasthan High Court in Deepak Kumar Surthar and others Vs. State of Rajasthan and others , 2000 (2) SCT171(RH), examined the issue with reference to earlier judgment of the High Court and also the Apex Court. Reference to paragraphs 19 to 25 of the judgment would be relevant for the present controversy and, therefore the same are extracted hereinafter:- 22. The Hon'ble Apex Court further held that a policy decision must be based on certain data or material and a mere injunction to the authority concerned to make appointment to a public post, keeping in view the policy of "adequate representation of such elements as were not adequately represented in the service" is not a provision making reference of appointment or post in favour of backward class and, thus, is impermissible as such preference may be made only in favour of backwardness of certain classes. The Court further held as under:- 23. An identical question, as is involved in the instant case, was considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Maharashtra v. Raj Kumar, MANU/SC/0235/1982MANU/SC/0235/1982 : AIR 1982 SC 1301: 1982 Lab IC 1597, wherein the Government Order providing for giving preference/weightage to the persons having aptitude to work in rural areas and the provision that the candidates coming from rural areas and who passed S.S.C Examination from rural areas, would deem to be rural candidates and given weightage, was held to be invalid. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under at page 1598, of Lab IC:- 24. The Court further held that a rule placing a rural candidate in advantageous position by a sheer incident of his passing the S.S.C. Examination from the rural area, or being a candidate from rural area, and as it prefers an advantage over all others by arbitrary addition of 10% of marks, which has no rational nexus or connection with the object of getting the best candidate suitably adapted to the rural area and such a rule cannot be held to be valid. 25. The said judgment was considered, approved and followed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in V.N. Sunanda Reddy v. State of Andhra Pradesh, MANU/SC/0174/1995MANU/SC/0174/1995 : AIR 1995 SC 914: 1995 Lab IC 415: (SC) 1995(2) SCT 579. wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court struck down the Government Order providing for 5% weightage to the candidates who had passed the examination in Telugu language for the public employment, being arbitrary and unconstitutional for the reason that the rule did not have any rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved, and providing any weightage on such a consideration was found to be violative of Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 16 of the Constitution. All the candidates possessing the minimum requisite educational qualification and otherwise eligible, who applied in response to an advertisement, had to be assessed on the basis of their relative merit and providing for such a weightage on the consideration of medium of examination would change the criteria of selection and relative merit would stand frustrated and would become otiose. A candidate by gaining weightage on the ground of medium of examination, cannot be permitted to steal a march over other meritorious candidates standing higher up in the merit. The Apex Court also referred to the judgment of Nine Judges' Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (Mandal Commission), MANU/SC/ 0104/1993MANU/SC/0104/1993 : AIR 1993 SC 477: 1993 Lab IC 129: (SC) 1993(1) SCT 448 wherein it was held that it has to be borne in mind that "weightage may be given only as per the Constitutional Sanction and not beyond it."" (emphasis supplied) 28. The Full Bench of Rajasthan High Court in Deepak Kumar Surthar (supra) went on to hold as under in paragraphs 27 to 29:- 29. The Apex Court held that no reservation can be made on the basis of place of birth or residence." After examining various other judgments, the Full Bench answered the reference in following terms:- 29. The aforesaid Full Bench judgment in Deepak Kumar Surthar (supra) was followed by a subsequent Full Bench judgment of Rajasthan High Court in Kailash Chand Sharma vs. State of Rajasthan and others . The Full Bench judgment of Rajasthan High Court in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) was examined by the Apex Court. The Apex Court in para 14 to 17 of the judgment in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) held as under:- 17. The argument that a sweeping power was given to the Parliament to make any law as regards residential requirement was replied thus : 30. The argument advanced on behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh relying upon Article 15 of the Constitution of India and the judgments of Apex Court in Pradeep Jain vs. Union of India , AIR 1984 SC 1420 and D. P. Joshi 's case (supra) was also considered in following words:- (Emphasis supplied) 31. Distinction on account of lack of expression "residence" in Article 15(2) of the Constitution vis-a-vis Article 16(2) was specifically noticed in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra), in following words:- 21. Bhagwati, J. under second the need for evolving a policy of ensuring admissions to the MBBS course on all India basis "based as it is on the postulate that India is one nation and every citizen of India is entitled to have equal opportunity for education and advancement." But, it was observed that the realization of such ideal may into be realistically possible in the present circumstance. It was then concluded : 22. It is not necessary for us to refer is extenso to various other decisions of this Court dealing with the scope of Article 15(1) and 15(4) vis a vis reservations based on residence within a University or other local area for the purpose of admissions to professional colleges. A summary of those decisions has been given by Bhagwati, J. in the passage extracted (supra). The requirement of residence and education within the university area for allocation of seats in medical colleges affiliated to that university was upheld on special considerations noticed in that judgment." 32. Sri Manish Goel appearing for the State has laid much emphasis on the true import of expression 'domicile', and its distinct nature, to submit that prohibition contained in Article 16 with regard to 'place of birth' and 'residence' would not be offended by insisting upon a candidate to be the domicile of State for grant of horizontal reservation. In Black's Law Dictionary (Sixth Edition) the term 'Residence' is defined and a distinction is drawn with the expression 'domicile' in following terms:- 33. Reliance is also placed upon the Words and Phrases (Volume 13) as per which domicile could broadly be of three types i.e. 'domicile of origin' i.e. domicile of a person's parents at the time of his birth; 'domicile of choice' i.e. the place which a person has elected and chosen for himself to displace his previous domicile and; 'domicile by operation of law' which is the domicile attributed to a person by law independent of his own intention or residence. The place of one's birth is his 'domicile of origin' and he would be without power to change it during minority, though it could be changed by his parents, guardian or anyone else having legal custody of him but after attaining majority the power to change domicile and obtain 'domicile of choice' can always be exercised. 34. The condition in the Govt. Order dated 9.1.2007 requiring the women to be the original resident of the State for grant of reservation for women is attempted to be saved from the clutches of Article 16 by referring to the concept of domicile contained in various dictionaries. 35. This Court would not like to dwell upon the subject purely with an academic pursuit. The issue has otherwise been a subject matter of examination by two Constitution Bench Judgments and therefore it would be safe for this Court to draw its conclusions from what has already been observed by the Apex Court. In D.P. Joshi (supra) a circular issued by the State Government, which exempted bona fide residents of Madhya Bharat from payment of capitation fee, was challenged on the ground of discrimination. Reliance was placed upon Article 15(1) of the Constitution of India to contend that 'place of birth' since cannot be a ground to discriminate as such the distinction drawn on account of residence would be unconstitutional. The argument was repelled by drawing distinction between 'place of birth' and 'residence' in following words:- The argument of the petitioner is that the rule under challenge in so far as it imposes a capitation fee on students who do not belong to Madhya Bharat while providing an exemption therefrom to students of Madhya Bharat, makes a discrimination based on the place of birth, and that it offends article 15 (1). Whatever force there might have been in this contention if the question had arisen with reference to the rule as it stood when the State took over the administration, the rule was modified in 1952, and that is what we are concerned with in this petition. The rule as modified is clearly not open to attack as infringing article 15(1). The ground for exemption from payment of capitation fee as laid down therein is bona fide residence in the State of Madhya Bharat. Residence and place of birth are two distinct conceptions with different connotations both in law and in fact, and when article 15(1) prohibits discrimination based on the place of birth, it cannot be read as prohibiting discrimination based on residence. This is not seriously disputed." 36. Attempt made on behalf of the petitioners to submit, as a proposition of law, that exemption based on domicile was in effect an exemption based on place of birth was specifically repelled. While noticing the distinction between 'domicile of origin' and 'domicile of birth' the Court observed that although the connotations are not synonymous, yet it would not be covered within the expression 'place of birth' and thereby would not offend Article 15(1). 37. The further argument advanced that Constitution of India admits of one citizenship the concept of domicile of State would run counter to the notion embedded in it was also rejected by observing that citizenship and domicile represent two different concepts, inasmuch as citizenship has reference to the political status of a person while domicile refers to his civil rights. Their Lordships, accordingly, went on to observe as under in para 10 of the judgment:- 38. The definition of term 'bona fide residence' given in Corpus Juris Secundum was taken note of as per which it means residence with domiciliary intent. The Court, therefore, held that the circular providing for exemption of bona fide resident of Madhya Bharat from payment of capitation fee was not repugnant to Article 15(1) of the Constitution of India. 39. In the matter of grant of reservation in admission to medical students to domicile of concerned State has consistently been upheld in all subsequent judgments of the Apex Court. In Dr. Pradeep Jain Vs. Union of India and others , AIR 1984 SC 1420, the issue was again examined at length. The term 'domicile' in the context of Article 5 of the Constitution of India was examined with reference to the law laid down in D.P. Joshi 's case in following words in para 8 of the judgment:- 40. Having said so, the Apex Court in Dr. Pradeep Jain (supra) approved of compensatory State action in protecting those who are placed in disadvantageous position in the matter of grant of admission and thereby relax the principle of selection based on merits. The observations contained in para 13 and 14 of the judgment is reproduced hereinafter:- We cannot, therefore, have arid equality which does not take into account the social and economic disabilities and inequalities from which large masses of people suffer in the country. Equality in law must produce real equality; de jure equality must ultimately find its raison d'etre in de facto equality. The State must, therefore, resort to compensatory State action for the purpose of making people who are factually unequal in their wealth, education or social environment, equal in specified areas. The State must, to use again the words of Krishna Iyer. J. in Jagdish Saran's case (supra) weave those special facilities into the web of equality which, in an equitable setting provide for the weak and promote their levelling up so that, in the long run, the community at large may enjoy a general measure of real equal opportunity equality is not negated or neglected where special provisions are geared to the large goal of the disabled getting over their disablement consistently with the general good and individual merit." The scheme of admission to medical colleges may, therefore, depart from the principle of selection based on merit, where it is necessary to do so for the purpose of bringing about real equality of opportunity between those who are unequals. There are. in the application of this principle, two considerations which appear to have weighed with the Court in justifying departure from the principle of selection based on merit. One is what may be called State interest and the other is what may be described as a region's claim of backwardness. The legitimacy of claim of State interest was recognised explicitly in one of the early decisions of this Court in D.P. Joshi 's case (supra) The Rule impugned in this case was a Rule made by the State of Madhya Bharat for admission to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore providing that no capitation fee should be charged for students who are bona fide residents of Madhya Bharat but for other non-Madhya Bharat students, there should be a capitation fee of Rs. 1300 for nominees and Rs. 1500 for others. The expression bona fide resident' was defined for the purpose of this Rule to mean inter alia a citizen whose original domicile was in Madhya Bharat provided he had not acquired a domicile elsewhere or a citizen whose original domicile was not in Madhya Bharat but who had acquired a domicile in Madhya Bharat and had resided there for not less than five years at the date of the application for admission. The constitutional validity of this Rule was challenged on the ground that it discriminated between students who were bona fide residents of Madhya Bharat and students who were not and since this discrimination was based on residence in the State of Madhya Bharat, it was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. The Court by a majority of four against one held that the Rule was not discriminatory as being in contravention of Article 14 , because the classification between students who were bona fide residents of Madhya Bharat and those who were not was based on an intelligible differentia having rational relation to the object of the Rule. Venkatarama Ayyar, J. speaking on behalf of the majority observed: (emphasis supplied) 
 
It may be noted that here discrimination was based on residence within the State of Madhya Bharat and yet it was held justified on the ground that the object of the State in making the Rules was to encourage students who were residents of Madhya Bharat to take up the medical course so that "some of them might, after passing out from the college, settle down as doctors and serve the needs of the locality" and the classification made by the Rule had rational relation to this object. This justification of the discrimination based on residence obviously rest on the assumption that those who were bona fide residents of Madhya Bharat would after becoming doctors settle down and serve the needs of the people in the State. We are not sure whether any facts were pleaded in the affidavits justifying this assumption but the judgment of Venkatarama Ayyar, J. show that the decision of the majority Judges proceeded on this assumption and that was regarded as a valid ground justifying the discrimination made by the impugned Rule." 41. The Apex Court, having taken note of earlier judgments rendered by the Court on the issue, proceeded to observe that requirement of residence in a State can be introduced as a condition for admission in MBBS Course without violating the mandate of equality of opportunity contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India. However, requirement of residence in a State for admission to postgraduate courses such as M.S., M.D. was disapproved. 42. It is urged on behalf of the respondents that requirement of residence made applicable in the grant of admission to medical courses has been stretched in the field of public employment as well and that it would not violate Article 16 of the Constitution of India provided the classification is valid and has reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved. The facts pleaded in the counter affidavit have been relied upon to contend that women residing within the State of Uttar Pradesh constitute a homogeneous class and providing reservation to them would serve the purpose of ameliorating condition of women in the State. Reliance is placed upon the subsequent Constitution Bench judgment of the Apex Court in Saurabh Chaudri and others Vs. Union of India and others , AIR 2004 SC 361, to contend that the previous judgment of the Apex Court in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) stands impliedly overruled. 43. Sheet anchor of Sri Goel's argument is an observation made in para 39 of the judgment in Saurabh Chaudri (supra), which is reproduced, in order to facilitate appreciation of the submission raised in that regard:- 44. The argument proceeds on complete ignorance of the issue that was being examined by the Court. The ratio has to be culled out from what is being decided by the Court and not what can be deduced from a stray observation made in the judgment. In Saurabh Chaudri (supra) the issue was as to whether institutional preference in the matter of grant of admission to postgraduate medical courses would be ultra virus Article 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India. A larger issue was raised at the bar as to whether any reservation i.e. be on residence or institutional preference is constitutionally permissible? The Court formulated a question as to whether reservation on the basis of domicile is impermissible in terms of Clause (1) of Article 15 of the Constitution and observed as under in para 29 of the judgment:- 45. The quoted text conveys in unequivocal terms that 'domicile' is not included within the expression 'place of birth', occurring in Article 15 of the Constitution of India, but the same would not be the case in Article 16(2) where a different expression is used i.e. 'place of birth, residence or any of them'. Domicile of State whether would be permissible even under Article 16 has neither been discussed nor has been commented upon by the Constitution Bench. The consideration rests with Article 15 alone. 46. The second question framed in Saurabh Chaudri (supra) was whether institutional preference comes within suspected classification warranting strict scrutiny test? The Court declined to apply strict scrutiny test and upheld institutional preference by invoking the principle of presumption of constitutionality of State action. It was then that the issue relating to validity of institutional preference was taken up. The observation in para 39, relied upon by the State was then made by the Apex Court. 47. The observation in para 39 of Saurabh Chaudri (supra), already extracted above, is in the nature of comment on the conditions prevailing in India and that Article 15 and 16 are species of Article 14 of the Constitution. Obligation on part of the law makers to address local needs have been acknowledged with reference to the duties of State enshrined in Article 41 and 47 of the Constitution of India. There is, however, no observation/law laid down that the express prohibition contained in Article 16(2) against discrimination on the ground of residence would stand waived or that the State would get jurisdiction to make a law providing for residence in public employment notwithstanding exclusive power conferred upon the Parliament in that regard. 48. It would be worth noticing that in the constitutional scheme requirement with regard to residence could be prescribed but such prescription must come from the Parliament and by making law in that regard. After noticing various previous judgments delivered on the issue the Apex Court held as under:- 49. From what has been observed by the Apex Court in Saurabh Chaudri (supra) it cannot be said that the proposition laid down by the Apex Court in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) has been whittled down or that it stands impliedly overruled. In view of the conclusion drawn on the issue, it would not be necessary to refer to the judgments of the Apex Court on the aspect of implied overruling of judgments. The judgment of Apex Court in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) continues to hold the field. 50. Even otherwise, the policy of State to restrict horizontal reservation for women to those, who are the original residents of the State, cannot be sustained on the basis of facts pleaded by the State in para 6 of the counter affidavit filed in Writ Petition No.28355 of 2017. What is stated in para 6 of the counter affidavit is the figure as per 1991 Census of the total population of State; percentage of male and female population; percentage of persons employed and its appropriation amongst male and female category. The rate of literacy for the State's population is also specified. The details provided in para 6 would not justify reasonable classification of women who are residents of State of U.P. or restricting of female reservation in the State to them alone. 51. A specific direction was issued to the State to place all relevant materials in support of the State's decision to restrict horizontal reservation for women to the original residents of the State. The order dated 23.10.2018 passed in the leading Writ Petition No. 11039 of 2018 is reproduced: 2. Put up on 15th of November, 2018, at 2:00 P.M." Stand of learned Additional Advocate General, Sri Manish Goyal, in response to the specific questions formulated in the order dated 23.10.2018 has been noticed in the order dated 15.11.2018 which too is extracted hereinafter: An affidavit of Special Secretary has also been filed on 18th of December 2018 alongwith which the relevant portion of 1991 Census Handbook has been annexed. Table 1 contains the percentage of workers in Uttar Pradesh. It is this table which has been relied upon by the State. Before analysing it, certain terms used in the Census Handbook, as defined in the 'explanatory notes on the terms used' would have to be taken note of. Clause 5, 12 and 13 defines 'households', 'work participation rate' and 'primary, secondary and tertiary sectors' and are reproduced:- 12. Work participation rate: Census classifies every person as a main worker, marginal worker or non-worker. If a person had worked for major part (i.e. more than 183 days) of the year preceding the date of census enumeration, he/she was considered as a main worker. If a person had worked for some time but not for the major part of the last year, he/she was termed as a marginal worker. All others were classified as non workers. Work participation rate is the proportion of main workers plus marginal workers to the total population. 13. Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Sectors: Based on the nature of economic activity in which a person was engaged, all main workers have been classified into nine industrial categories as under: As per the figures disclosed in Table 1, 49.31% of total male population constitute 'main workers' while 7.45% of total female population constitute 'main workers'. Main workers are those persons who have worked for a major part of the year that is more than 183 days in the year preceding the date of census enumeration. Such work could be performed in any of the three specified sectors i.e. primary, secondary and tertiary sectors as defined in the explanatory notes on terms used. The only material relied upon for justifying the decision contained in Government Order dated 9.1.2007 is the cabinet note dated 14.2.1999 on the basis of which the Government Order dated 26.2.1999 was issued. The Cabinet note dated 14.2.1999, copy of which has been placed before the Court is also reproduced:- 13. See also the dictum of Field J. in Norton v. Shelby County (118 U.S. 425 : 30 L.Ed. 178) : 14. To the same effect are the passages from Rottschaefer on Constitutional Law, at page 34 : 15. Willoughby on Constitution of the United States, Second Edition, Vol. I, page 10 :- 16. And Willis on Constitutional Law, at page 89 :- 63. The Government Order dated 9.1.2007 would amount to a law in terms of Clause 3 of Article 13 of the Constitution of India. Once it is held that Clause (4) of the aforesaid Government Order is unconstitutional, then it automatically results in a void piece of law by virtue of Clause 2 of Article 13 itself. As such when Clause (4) of the Government Order dated 9.1.2007 has been specifically challenged on the ground of it being unconstitutional and the Court upon examination of the said issue has concluded that it is unconstitutional the objection raised by the respondents on the basis of the plea of estoppel and acquiescence cannot be accepted and is hereby rejected. 64. In view of the conclusions drawn on specific issues framed for consideration in this bunch of writ petitions, the petitions filed by women candidates who are not the original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh is liable to succeed and their appointment would be protected. 65. Some of the petitioners are male candidates who have been appointed, due to inadvertence on part of the commission, against posts which were earmarked for female candidates. In case such posts were filled from women candidates, by correctly applying horizontal reservation, such male candidates would not be selected in view of their merit. However, they have been appointed in the year 2016 and have been continuing as such for the last about three years without any complaint to their working. They allege that there was no misrepresentation on their part and having been selected and appointed it would be unduly harsh to allow the respondents to remove them from service, in facts and circumstances of the present case. It is also contended that large extent of vacancies otherwise exists in the concerned department and no prejudice would be caused to anyone, in case they are allowed to continue in employment. Various other aspects of equity have been pressed at their instance. Reliance is placed upon a recent judgment of Apex Court in Ran Vijay Singh and others Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh ; (2018) 2 SCC 357. Sri Agnihotri Kumar Tripathi, Advocate, appearing for some of the petitioners has also relied upon judgments of the Apex Court in Tridip Kumar Dingal Vs. State of West Bengal , 2009 (1) SCC 768; Rajesh Kumar Daria Vs. Rajasthan Public Service Commission , 2007(8) SCC 785; Rajesh Kumar and others Vs. State of Bihar and others , 2013(4) SCC 690; Vikas Pratap Singh and others Vs. State of Chhattisgarh and others , 2013 (14) SCC 494 and judgment of this Court in Ram Naresh Singh and others Vs. State of U.P. and others , 2018(1) ESC 592, in support of petitioners contention that their appointment is not liable to be interfered with. 66. Submissions, aforesaid, is opposed on behalf of the State and the Commission by contending that merely due to an act of inadvertence if petitioners are selected and appointed then no equity could be claimed by them in view of clear stipulation in the advertisement that eligibility/right to be appointed could be examined by the Commission, even later. 67. In order to examine the respective contentions advanced, on this aspect, this Court had directed the State on 23.10.2018 to specify the total cadre strength of Junior Engineers as also the number of posts lying vacant or which are likely to fall vacant in the current recruitment year. 68. The Special Secretary, Department of Personnel of the State of Uttar Pradesh has filed an affidavit which contains reply on the aforesaid aspect in Annexure 2. As per the information furnished by Chief Engineer (Personnel) Irrigation and Water Resources U.P. there are 4217 sanctioned posts of Junior Engineer in the cadre. 2822 of such sanctioned posts are lying vacant as on 30.6.2018. 91 vacancies are likely to arise further in the current recruitment year due to promotion and retirement. It is also informed that a requisition for filling up 2100 vacancies against 2822 vacant posts for different post of the year 2008-09 to 2015-16 has already been sent to U.P. Public Service Commission, Allahabad while 722 posts of years 2014-15 to 2017-18 has been sent to the Commission. 69. From the affidavit of the Special Secretary, State of U.P. it is clear that large number of posts are lying vacant for the last several years and absence of posts cannot be pleaded as a ground to non-suit the petitioners. 70. Although, it is not in issue that male petitioners would not have been selected on the strength of their merit if reservation was correctly applied but that itself would not be the determinative criteria. 71. Admittedly, these petitioners have applied for appointment to the posts of Junior Engineer (Civil) pursuant to the advertisement no. 14 of 2015 and they possess requisite qualification/eligibility for appointment to the post in question. They have been selected and appointed and are continuing as such for the last about three years. There is no allegation of misrepresentation on their part in securing appointment in question. 72. Aspects of equity, in consideration of claim of appointment in similar exigencies has been taken note of by the Apex Court in some of the decisions relied upon by the petitioners, which requires reference at this stage. The Apex Court in Ran Vijay Singh and others (supra) observed as under:- In Tridip Kumar Dingal (supra), Apex Court observed as under:- In Rajesh Kumar Daria (supra), the Supreme Court held as under:- In Rajesh Kumar (supra), the Apex Court observed as under:- The Apex Court in Vikas Pratap Singh (supra) observed as under:- In Ram Naresh Singh (supra), this Court has held as under:- 73. In view of the law laid down by the Apex Court and by this Court, the petitioners claim for protection of their appointment, in the peculiar facts of the present case needs to be examined. Admittedly, petitioners have been selected and appointed pursuant to the advertisement in question. Their eligibility for the post is also not in issue. Vacant posts are otherwise available. There is no misrepresentation or fraud on their part. Having continued satisfactorily, for about three years, it would be unjust to allow the respondents to eliminate their candidature by throwing them out of employment, in view of the law laid down by the Apex Court in similar circumstances. 74. It is therefore provided that none of selected petitioners would be removed from service on account of publication of revised select list and their appointments would stand protected. Such petitioners, however, would be placed at the bottom of the seniority list drawn of the candidates selected pursuant to the advertisement no. 14 of 2015. They shall be adjusted against available vacant positions which have not been advertised so far or on which any right has not yet accrued in favour of any person. 75. Subject to the observations, aforesaid, the modified/revised select list dated 28.4.2018 stands affirmed. The candidates selected vide modified select list dated 28.4.2018 shall be placed as per their merit in the seniority list and their candidature for the purposes of seniority as per the revised select list would not be adversely affected by the grant of protection to the male petitioners who were inadvertently included in the select list and their appointment is protected by this judgment. Clasue (4) of the Government Order dated 9.1.2007 is declared ultra vires the Articles 16 (2) & 16(3) of the Constitution of India, in so far as it restricts the grant of horizontal reservation to women who are original residents of the State of Uttar Pradesh. Consequently, the female petitioners who have been ousted on account of the denial of benefit of horizontal reservation to them due to the fact that they are original residents of other parts of the country, cannot be sustained and the impugned action to that extent is set aside. All such female petitioners would continue in employment as per original select list published and the modified select list to that extent is directed to be amended. 76. In light of the observations made in this judgment, this bunch of writ petitions stands disposed of finally. There shall be, however, no order as to costs. Order Date :- 16.1.2019
 
Amit Mishra/Anil/Ashok Kr./Ranjeet Sahu
 
(Ashwani Kumar Mishra, J.)