SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Intellectualism itself is worth nothing unless informed by social justice.
DATE: 2018-10-24
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/9qypsw/intellectualism_itself_is_worth_nothing_unless/

--- POST TEXT ---

While people from lower strata of society are deployed as foot soldiers for violent fascist projects by creating an emotional aura, it's the white collar intellectuals who help create the justification for fascism by misrepresenting facts. They're the worst. Beware of this type. 

This might sound very simple, but it's actually very sinister. An intellectual can convince you in favor of an argument just as strongly as they can convince you of the counter argument. That's why you see so many intellectuals switching sides like MJ Akbar, Tavleen Singh, etc. 

There is nothing like academic neutrality. The academic has a standpoint. You either stand with oppressor or oppressed. People who built gas chambers were scientists who knew exactly what they were doing. Education is not going to liberate us. Struggles for social justice are. 

In school, we were assigned a topic and a side to debate on. At times, we would be asked to speak for a topic, at times against. We were told that the substantive merit of arguments doesn't matter as much as emphatic presentation and a convincing voice ... 

... that's the case with liberal intelligentsia. Wait for regime change and they'll convince you of the exact opposite arguments with emphasis and "power of presentation". You wear a tie, make a power point presentation, throw jargon around, show graphs and viola! Objectivity!!! 

I'm very suspicious of liberal intelligentsia. They'll find a way to justify genocide. All they need to do is wear a nice tie, speak softly, misrepresent a few facts, pass off a few anecdotes as "evidence" and throw jargon around. 

Scientists working on the Manhattan Project knew exactly what they were building. The attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki were scientific tests conducted so as to maximise reach. Post attacks, US set up a research facility in Japan where survivors weren't treated but studied!!!! 

Feminist standpoint theory has established how "malestream" science is not exact science because it ignores the reality of the 50%. Women's representation is not only politically needed but also needed for the sake of accuracy. No observer is neutral ... 

... when a thermometer measures temperature, it's neither the temperature of the body nor that of the thermometer. It's the equilibrium temperature of the body and the thermometer. The very act of observation changes the surrounding under study. So, how can observer be neutral?? 

The very act of a white (or a female) researcher walking into a black neighborhood (or a male dominated space) changes the surrounding that is sought to be observed. The act of observation disturbs the configuration. The surrounding readjusts itself ... 

... so, how can an upper caste Hindu male researcher claim to be "neutral" when his very act of observing reconfigures the subject? Will a lynching victim's family tell him that they ate beef? Will a Dalit woman tell him how she feels around the Sarpanch? ... 

... this claim of "academic neutrality" is so bogus and has been demolished so many times over that when an academic knowingly says this, they're committing fraud. In the West, it's increasingly practiced to declare/disclose one's identity at the outset rather than denying it ... 

... in the West articles increasingly begin with acknowledgements such as, "I'm a cis white female", "I'm a cis brown male", etc. This is an acknowledgement that "I don't represent the universal truth of all society". In India, it's still rare to say "I'm an upper caste cis male" 

When we do science, we don't gloss over a Zero Error. We acknowledge it, and take measures to correct it so that it's impact is minimised. Such acknowledgments can be thought of as an acknowledgment of zero error. You acknowledge it, otherwise it'll up the knowledge produced. 

Denial of one's location and false insistence on neutrality is a dishonest academic position. Anyone who says this is trying to hide either their anti-Semitic views or their casteist beliefs or their religious bigotry or patriarchal or homophobic views. Watch out for this. 

Intellectuals can be great if they're involved in the fight for social justice. Otherwise, they're like election consultants who can help any party create any kind of discourse. They can lay out the intellectual justification for fascist projects using pseudo scientific jargon. 

Intellectualism itself is worth nothing unless informed by social justice. Good night! - Shehla Rashid

Source: https://threadreaderapp.com/thread/1054075094715297792.html