The petitioner is seeking directions to the State of Haryana and

DGP, Haryana to initiate proceedings against respondent no.4 the

Commissioner of Police for receiving Rs.40 lacs as bribe and seeks

cancellation of a FIR at Police Station Chandi Mandir, District Panchkula. The petitioner claims that a rape FIR was registered at P.S.

Chandi Mandir on a complaint made by a victim, a married woman against a

resident of Ambala after she was made to consume intoxicating sweets. The

petitioner claims that there are instructions that in heinous crimes

verification by the concerned SHO has to be got done from the Supervisory

Officer and the petitioner was the Supervisory Officer at the relevant time.

The SHO concerned did not produce the complainant for verification before

 1 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 08:49:38 ::: Crl. Misc. No.M-25463 of 2015 (O&M) 2 him even till 03.06.2015 and the case came to his notice when one ASI was

sent to arrest the accused on 02.06.2015. The petitioner sent a

communication to the SHO concerned directing him to get the facts verified

by the next date. The petitioner also learnt that the victim and her husband

had gone to DCP, Panchkula on 04.06.2015. He claims that the victim and

her husband were produced before him on 04.06.2015 and he in discharge of

his duties after verification of facts gave directions for investigation of the

case and deputed the Sub-Inspector to go to Ambala and conduct a raid and

arrest the accused. The petitioner later learnt that the Sub-Inspector had been

ordered by respondent no.4 to return to Panchkula. The petitioner then refers

'WhatsApp' messages on a group of police officers and claims that

respondent no.4 had received a bribe of Rs.40 lacs and this fact had come to

his notice and respondent no.4 was taking shelter of the instructions of a

Senior Cabinet Minister and a retired IPS Officer was helping respondent

no.4 in getting plump postings. It was pleaded that to elicit truth, the matter

should be investigated by CBI and scientific methods should be used to

elicit truth. It was claimed that a conspiracy had been hatched to ruin his

career and he was being harassed and a threat had been given to him that

adverse remarks would be recorded in the ACR as he had raised a finger. Notice in this petition was not issued. The State counsel was

asked to file a short reply in order to go into the issue raised by the

petitioner. Affidavit of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Headquarter

was filed and was taken up on record. According to it the petitioner is an

accused in FIR No. 129, which was registered under Sections 182, 384, 385,

 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 08:49:38 ::: Crl. Misc. No.M-25463 of 2015 (O&M) 3 389, 420, 465, 468, 471, 120-B IPC and Section 7 / 8 / 9 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act and the alleged victim, her husband and the police officials

were also the accused and challan had been submitted after sanction from

the Governor and the case was fixed for framing of charge. It was pleaded

that the petitioner had been placed under suspension vide order dated

29.03.2017, passed by the Governor of Haryana. The sanction order as well

as the suspension order has been enclosed with their reply. It was further pleaded that frivolous allegations have been

levelled by the petitioner to save his own skin and the matter had been

thoroughly investigated and the petitioner wants to raise a defence to

wriggle out of his misdeeds unearthed by the Investigating Agency and

material facts had been concealed to mislead the Court. It was pleaded that

after the registration of the case, a lady Sub-Inspector had recorded the

statement of witnesses and had inspected the spot and had taken into

possession the sweet box, tissue papers and handkerchief alleged to be

containing semen, bedsheet and pillow from the place of occurrence and the

scene of crime team was called to the spot and thereafter, medical of the

complainant was got done. It was pleaded that meanwhile the alleged

accused and his brother were approached and money was demanded for

taking the complaint back and Tek Chand approached the police and handed

over a C.D., which contained the conversation between the complainant and

Pranveer and he submitted that his brother had been falsely implicated and it

was a honey trap and the sexual relation that was formed were with consent

of the complainant and was portrayed as a rape case. It was pleaded that the

complainant and her husband had demanded huge amount of money to drop

 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 08:49:38 ::: Crl. Misc. No.M-25463 of 2015 (O&M) 4 the proceedings. It was pleaded that there were several similar instances of

honey trap and extortion and blackmail and respondent no.4 being the

supervisory head had given instructions to the DCP, Crime and DCP,

Panchkula to get to the bottom of the matter and instructions were given to

the SHO to have a complete picture before taking action and a SIT was

constituted. During investigation it transpired that the complainant had

earlier also extorted money using the same modus operandi against one

Pawandeep of Jagadhri and one Vikram of Nahan and a case was registered

in 2015 under Sections 328 , 376 IPC in Himachal Pradesh and Pawandeep

had got a case registered against the complainant and her husband at

Jagadhri. On thorough investigation and on receipt of the FSL report, the

allegations of rape were found to be false and Section 328 , 376 IPC were

deleted and Sections 389 , 182 , 120-B IPC were added against complainant

Rajni. Rajni and Hasim were arrested and an interstate gang was busted.

Subsequently, Sections 420 , 384 , 465 IPC were added and some more

people who had played a role and were the touts of the petitioner were

arrayed as an accused and disclosure statement was made by Ashwani Sahni

that he had demanded Rs.40 lacs from accused Pranveer on behalf of the

petitioner for settling the matter. On checking the call details it was found

that the petitioner was in touch with Ashwani Sahni and Sections 7 / 8 / 9 of

the Prevention of Corruption Act were added against the petitioner. It was

pleaded that during investigation they had found the role of two other police

officials EASI Ramesh Kumar and EASI Rajpal. It was further pleaded that

the mobile phones of the petitioner were recovered and he was arrested on

20.11.2015. 4 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 08:49:38 ::: Crl. Misc. No.M-25463 of 2015 (O&M) 5 Today the State counsel has placed on record the order vide

which charge had been framed against the petitioner on 13.04.2018. A query

was posed to the petitioner as to whether the order had been challenged. It

was stated that the order had not been challenged. Counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has

information that respondent no.4 had taken a bribe of Rs. 40 lacs and the

messages sent on the common WhatsApp would show that he was doing it at

the behest of a Senior Cabinet Minister and his involvement can only be

found if the matter was handed over to CBI to elicit the truth and the matter

had not been investigated properly and a false challan had been filed against

the petitioner and others. It was urged that there are instructions to the SHO

to get the facts verified by the Supervisory Officer, which was not done in

this case and when the fact came to the notice of the petitioner, the petitioner

asked the SHO to place the facts before him and instructions had been

violated. The counsel had referred to the messages which were given by

respondent no.4 on the common WhatsApp group. The State counsel urges that the matter was referred to the Crime

Branch as the complainant had a past history and she had lodged FIRs on

similar pattern against others and they were indulging in extortion and it was

a honey trap. It was urged that challan had been presented and charge had

been framed and four witnesses have already been examined. He added that

five FIRs had been lodged in different districts which are similar in pattern

and the petitioner by filing this petition wants to wriggle out of the case and

raise a defence and he has an opportunity to lead evidence in defence and it is

not a case for transfer to any other agency much less the CBI. 5 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 08:49:38 ::: Crl. Misc. No.M-25463 of 2015 (O&M) 6 The petitioner's case is that he had information that a bribe of

Rs. 40 lacs had been received from the accused for cancellation of FIR No.

29 dated 22.05.2015. A query was posed as to what was the source of the

information and what was that evidence. The petitioner has been unable to

disclose the evidence in his possession. He is merely relying upon the

messages posted on the WhatsApp group. The allegations merely are that

respondent no.4 was taking shelter of the instructions of Senior Cabinet

Minister whose name he did not know as it had not been disclosed by

respondent no.4. He claims that he was stating this with complete

responsibility that the accused had approached respondent no.4. The FIR was lodged on a statement made by the prosecutrix but

during investigation the complainant has been challaned along with the touts

as well as the petitioner. The case of the prosecution is that it was a honey

trap and it was a extortion racket and there are FIRs against the prosecutrix. The challan has already been presented. Charge has been

framed. It would not be appropriate to give any finding on the merits and

demerits of the allegation. It is for the petitioner to raise the defence and

lead evidence at the appropriate stage. The Apex Court in the case of West Bengal and others v. Sampat Lal and others, reported in AIR 1985 SC 195, held and observed

that in absence of any material to be satisfied that the investigation was not

conducted properly, it should not order the transfer of investigation. The principles have been settled by the Supreme Court in

number of judgments and it is not necessary to refer to them here. However,

cases are transferred to CBI only because of complicity of issues where the

 6 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 08:49:38 ::: Crl. Misc. No.M-25463 of 2015 (O&M) 7 case involves national or international ramifications or where people having

political clouts are involved. What is important is that the power to transfer

to the premier agency like the CBI is to be exercised with utmost care and

circumspection and only where the fact situation so demands. It would not be necessary to go into the correctness or

otherwise of the allegations though a lot can be said about it but I would

refrain from making any observation lest it may prejudice the accused. The

petitioner has only expressed his doubts. The petition was filed in 2015 and

even after three years he has not placed any material, which can hint that the

allegations should be investigated. The petition is dismissed with cost of Rs. 10,000/- to be

deposited with the High Court Legal Services Committee. In case, the

amount is not deposited within a month then steps would be taken by it to

recover the same.