SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I think I am becoming a man hating feminist.
DATE: 2023-07-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/14qix3a/i_think_i_am_becoming_a_man_hating_feminist/

--- POST TEXT ---

Dude please keep and open mind will you? Please?

I am 23(F), living in lucknow, UP.

Middle-class here!! 🖐

I think I am becoming a **man-hating** feminist, and the reasons are these-

I grew up with GREAT parents. They gave me EVERYTHING . BEST food, clothes, best schools, best education, best EVERYTHING.

But since the day I was born , I had the front row seat to how my dad and his family emotionally abused my mom. Except for physical abuse, she went through everything. From public shaming to ...the old school 'black-magic' victim. She was lied to, mislead and defamed.

My dad HATES my mom's guts because after marriage she wanted to study and get a job, but he was always scared that she might leave him and not be his personal slave.

My dad almost re-married a woman 20 years her junior but my mom threatened to go to the police and report him so he backed up.

He is the worlds BEST dad, he listens to me and is always open for conversations about anything.

But he has made my mother's life hell. There isnt a day that goes by when I dont hear her crying at midnight in the kicthen.

I remember as a teen I saw so many pregnancy tests hidden in the house and I got confused because we had me and my sister and my mom was almost 50, so it was confusing as to why she was still trying for a male baby.

My dad's side of the family hates us. We dont get invited to parties or to family gatherings, we dont recieve any kinds of gifts or anything that my grandparents give to all other grandkids.

All because my mom didnt have a boy.

My dad forced my mom so many times to bend backwards for his family when in return, my paternal grandma always tried to kill my mom.

Whenever we went to our grandma's house, she didnt give me enough food/milk to eat. All of it went to my dad's brother's son.

When I was a year old, we were staying with my grandma, my dad wasnt home and we didnt have any cellphones.

One Late night I got so many loose motions that I couldnt even open my eyes. There were guests staying with us and my grandma made my mom work tirelessly, but refused to call in the local doctor for me.

When my dad returned the next day, he took me to the hospital.

\-----

I grew up around women who were abused. I cant name a single woman who isin't a victim of abuse.

Even my evil grandma was abused by her husband. All my aunts and mom's friends have been physically and sexually abused.

All the men in my family have at some point cheated on their wives and have at least once used physical violence too.

But no one in my family has divorced because it is not something that is allowed. And most women in my family are illiterate and jobless so there's no option except depend on the husband for everything.

&amp;#x200B;

\---

I am 23 now.

After years of abuse, youd think that my mom wud be a little better.

But no.

She is of the same mentality.

Everytime I score a little less marks in any of the exams, she straight up says, *marry a baffoon and get out of my house. We have wasted so much money on you. If you were a boy at least you wud do some man-work around the house.*

My dad also says the same things, but, not that frquently.

I wanted to study in Delhi University but my mom is not ready to send me . She says that female violence is high in Delhi and youngsters are smokers and drinkers.

She's afraid that I'll become like them.

I remember last year I heard mom on the phone telling her sister that--*I'm happy that I have 2 daughters but it wud obviously be better if i had a son.*

My dad's a Uni professor, so his students frequently visit our house.

My mom helps them in selecting presents/cakes for their girlfriends, but when she came to know that I had a crush on a guy in school, she almost beat me to death. She was afraid that I had lost my virginity.

My aunt married a rich guy(arrange marriage) and when sometimes she says 'No' to anything, he slaps her.

My paternal grandma was beaten by my nana too.

I am not allowed to go out with freinds. I am not allowed to have male friends. I am not allowed to cry because a crying woman is week whom men prey upon.

&amp;#x200B;

\-------

I am in a relationship with a guy for 5 years.

He promised me he wont have sex with me until we got married.

But now, he's forcing me to have sex with him. Any day when the media highlights about a woman cheating on her husbands, he sens me those links and points out that *'SEE WOMEN CHEAT SO MUCH! I BET YOU'LL LEAVE ME TOO'*

He has a ton of female friends but I am not allowed to talk to any of my male friends(I just have one but he stopped talking to me after my bf threatened him)

Anytime I am out of the house, he wants to know where I am , whom am I meeting.

He is DEEPLY sexist and insecure. Everything I say , my opinion dosent matter to him because he has a degree in medicine.

\------

&amp;#x200B;

ALL the men in my life are dissapointing. I am not happy. 

I have been robbed of opportunities because I am a girl. 

I dont feel safe when i go out. I cant take my mom to the hospital at midnight during emergencies because my mom fears for my safety. 

I cant go the college of my choice. I cant wear what I want. I cant talk to whom I want.

I have read so many articles on how men abuse women in relationship , and I am being abused in more ways than one. 

Somedays I just feel like dying. I hate that I am a woman.

I dont have any perks or ANY kinda benifits. 

Every man that comes to our house says 'Oh she's 23. When are you getting married?'

Often times women in my distant family ask my mom 'So, why did u not have a son?'

\---

People say being a woman has so many perks. 

1- You get proposals all the time.

(I used to get them, but I find it repulsive and downright invasion of privacy.)

2- Do nothing and you'd still get food.

(The one spending the money has power. I dont see it as a perk for myself because then I'll be reliant on that man for everything. He will try and control me.)

3- You can fake case anyone and get half his assets.

(I dont even wanna marry y'all, why wud I do that?)--Like.... I actually HATE it when someone (man or woman) spends money on me because I am a fan of chivalry but not when I am capable of paying.

4-Sexual availability by men.

(I am stritly againts pre-marrital sex so this is out the window)

5- Ability to cry and be vulnerable.

(Everytime I did any of that, either I was taken for granted or was told that I am being dramatic)

\---

LITERALLY no perks. 

I am studying right now, not because I have a dream(I do have one) but because I DONT wana get married. 

I never saw myself as a woman who could compromise for her husaband. I know what that does to a woman. 

There have been so many male teachers even who have tried to make things sexual with me and on reporting them, i hv been said to 'ignore it.'

\---

Before you say that I am a radical feminist.

I would like to tell you that there are a LOT of things that radical and toxic feminism support that I dont.

I dont believe in clothing empowerment. 

I dont believe in justification of cheating if it done by a woman.

Lots of other shit too.

\---

In the recent uprise of Andrew tate, I have started hating men even more.

Everytime i tell my problems, they say 'but u have the advantage of alimony.'

Like... idk how those two things mix together?

Maybe I am an idiot. Because i have a really hard time sympathising with men.

I sympathise with abuse victims and rape victims and FAKE CASE victims who are male. 

But I dont sympathise when they say 'Well, women are gold-diggers and they'll leave if you show them love."

they highlight a male abuse victim and say 'This is what feminsim has done to women.'

Whenever an argument is made they say 'Women dont go to wars, men do, women are literally useless."

And Im like..... what about men who dont go to war? Arent they treated same as the one who DO go to the war?

I can make a 100 arguments where I talked to so many sexist men, real life and online where they highlight the 'RADICAL' feminism and make it about real feminism.

And not just women even women also are sexist towards other women.

They say things like --'no hymen no ring.'

Arent these same men fucking around before marriage? And now they want virgins?

TL:DR- I dont know why , but I am unable to understand men's problem. The more I go out in the world, The more I encounter men who just look at me like I am a sex object. I cant seem to sympathise with their peoblems.