By Hon'ble Mr. Devendra Chaudhary, Member (A)

 This OA has challenged the order dated 23.12.2019 whereby

Respondent No. 2 has directed cancellation of result of the examination

held on 08.09.2019 for Group 'B' post of AOM/ATM under 30% Limited

Departmental Competitive Examination (LDCE) quota. As part of the main

relief, quashing of the impugned order has been sought alongwith

direction to the respondents to declare the date of Viva-Voce test followed

by declaration of the final result. As per interim prayer, the stay of the

impugned order dated 23.12.2019 has been sought so that the applicant

does not suffer irreparable loss. 2. The brief facts of the case are that the Respondent No. 2 issued a

notification dated 23.10.2017, inviting application for selection to the

Group 'B' post of AOM/ATM from Group 'C' under the 30% LDCE quota. That the examination was held, as scheduled, on 08.09.2019 and 233

eligible Group 'C' staffs were notified for participation, wherein the name

of the applicant figures at Sl. No. 116. That the result of the examination 2 held on 08.09.2019 were declared on 06.11.2019 (Annexure A-6) and the

applicant was one of the selected candidates, namely at Sl. No. 5

alongwith 5 other candidates (Total 6). Based on the said written test, the

applicant underwent a medical examination and was declared medically fit

(Annexure A-7). That however, vide impugned order dated 23.12.2019

the said written examination held on 08.09.2019 has been cancelled

without assigning any reason. That the impugned order has thereby been

issued without any rhyme and reason jeopardising the future of the

applicant. It is further submitted that no reason has been stated in the

impugned order, even though it has been issued allegedly on account of

certain wrongful action by one of the participant during the examination

period (Annexure A-8) and because of that one candidate, namely Shri

Sanjeev Kumar Sahu, the entire examination has been cancelled. That

this action of cancellation is arbitrary and the whole examination cannot be

cancelled just on the basis of misconduct/misdemeanour of one candidate

in the written examination. Accordingly, it is prayed that the impugned

order may be quashed and respondents be directed to complete the

earlier examination of 08.09.2019 and bring it to its concluding stage,

namely Viva-Voce test and other steps with declaration of final result. 3. Per contra, the respondents have submitted that the impugned

order has been passed by the Competent Authority on the grounds of

wrongful action by a candidate to whom charge sheet has also been

issued. That since this casts aspersion on the fairness of the entire

examination, therefore, the entire examination has been cancelled in order

to maintain the integrity of the examination system. Further, that even as

per applicant's own submission the cancellation of any selection can be

done only after declaration of final result, as per circular of the Ministry of

Railways dated 11.11.2019 and since presently only the written test stage

has been completed, and the final result has not been declared, therefore, 3 there can be no occasion to give notice to the selected candidates prior to

issue of cancellation order. Accordingly, there is no reason to accept the

plea of the applicant for quashing of the impugned order and consequently

no ground for interim relief. Accordingly the OA may be dismissed at

admission stage itself and for the same reasons there is no cause for for

granting any interim relief which is opposed. 4. We have heard the arguments from both the sides at length and

perused the material available in detail. 5. The facts of the case are broadly admittedly. Prima-facie it is

difficult to justify that just because of one participant, the entire selection

process should be cancelled. That one candidate cannot be the reason to

punish six successful candidates as well as interfere in the assessment of

233 candidates who would have given the test by virtue of their eligibility. In this connection leaned counsel for the applicant has cited the judgment

of this Tribunal dated 06.08.2018 wherein, in a similar situation, it has

been held that when there is a matter of some irregularity / malpractice in

the examination, then if it is possible to separate out the tainted cases

than the whole examination should not be cancelled. The operative

portion of the judgment and order dated 06.08.2018 is reproduced herein

below:- 6. On the contra side, the respondents have asserted that even if no

reason has been assigned in the impugned order, the actual reason is

with respect to the incident caused by one of the participant in the said

examination namely Sanjeev Kumar Sahu, who has admittedly been

issued a charge sheet being a departmental employee. In this

background we are also inclined to agree with the averment of learned

counsel for the applicant that while no express reason for cancellation of

the examination has been stated in the impugned order, even while in the

same breath, the respondents are justifying their action qua the

misconduct by one candidate. The respondents cannot have their cake

and eat it too. Not stating reasons is the cancellation order even while

swearing by a established reason in anachronism at it best. 7. In the light of above arguments, we are of the considered view that

the judgment and order of this Tribunal dated 06.05.2019 in the matter of Manoj Chakraborty and others Vs. Union of India through Divisional 5 Railway Manager, Allahabad Division, N.C.R. Allahabad fits squarely on

the facts of this case moreso, ex-facie with respect to the interim relief. The applicant has also cited in his OA (Para 4.16) certain judgments of

Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon & Ors vs

State Of Punjab & Ors (https://indiankanoon.org/doc/753943) in the Civil

Appeal No. 3411-3421 of 2005. Further, the judgment and order of this

Tribunal in the matter of Manoj Chakraborty (supra), several other

citations of the Hon'ble Apex Court have been made in the paras 13 and

14 of the judgment. The same are reproduced below:- It was finally held by Hon'ble Apex Court as under:- 14. The situations when the entire selection process can be
treated as vitiated have also been examined in the case of Smt.
Kiran Juneja And Ors., Mrs. ... vs Union Of India (UOI) And Ors. by 7 Hon'ble Delhi High Court (https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1497046),
following the case laws decided by Hon'ble Apex Court including
the cases discussed in para 12 and 13 above and it was held by
Hon'ble High Court as under:- .......................................................................................................... 15. In Union of India v. Rajesh P.U. (supra), the Apex Court held that
in cases where it is possible to weed out the beneficiaries of
illegalities, the selection process to that extent only be set aside
leaving out the persons who had no concern with such
malpractices. Following observations of the Supreme Court need a
quote: 16. In Umesh Chandra Shukla v. Union of India (supra)
selection to Delhi Judicial Service was in challenge. As per
the Rules, every candidate was required to obtain a minimum
of 50% marks in each paper and overall 60% marks to qualify
for interview. The High Court, which conducted the
examination, granted 2 marks to every candidate in every
paper thereby rendering many candidates qualified for
interview. The Supreme Court held that grant of grace marks
was illegal. Therefore, the selections of the candidates who
were given grace marks was held to be bad in law. However,
those candidates who were selected without any grace marks
and in whose case no illegalities were found were declared
successful. Likewise, in the case of Harshendia Choubisa v.
State of Rajasthan (supra), the Supreme Court held, where
the awarding of grace marks by the Government of Rajasthan
on the basis of locality was found to be irrational,
unreasonable and illegal. However, the Supreme Court
directed that selection already made on the basis of
erroneous interpretation cannot be disturbed and the
subsequent interpretation will be given prospective effect.
Moreover, even from the list of selected candidates who
could not join were allowed to do the same and the relief to
the appellant was limited only to their case only in the
situation of their having better marks than the selected
candidates. .......................................................................................................... 20. The Apex Court had the occasion to consider such an
issue once again in a recent judgment entitled Inderpreet
Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab and Ors. . In that case one
Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu was the Chairman of the Punjab
Public Service Commission between 1996 to 2002. Allegations were made against him that he got a large
number of persons appointed on extraneous considerations
including monetary consideration. Such appointments were
said to have been made during the period 1998 to 2001. On
consideration of the entire material placed before it, the State
Government decided to cancel the entire selection made for
recruitment to PCS (Executive Branch) and Allied Services in
1998. Regarding judicial officers appointed to PCS (Judicial
Branch), the High Court constituted two Scrutiny
Committees, which were accepted by the High Court. On the
recommendations made by the High Court, the State
Government terminated the service of those who were
appointed on the basis of the selection made by the
Commission against the vacancies of the years 1998, 1999
and 2000. The persons whose services were terminated
approached the High Court by filing number of writ petitions,
which were, however, dismissed by the Full Bench of the
High Court. In these circumstances, they approached the
Supreme Court. 21. The Bench consisting of Hon'ble Mr. Justice S.B. Sinha
and Hon'ble Mr. Justice Dalveer Bhandari gave separate
judgments, though with same conclusion. It was held that if
an appointment is made in violation of Articles 14 and 16 of 10 the Constitution of India, same would be void and nullity. In
view of the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of the
Supreme Court in the case of Secretary, State of Karnataka v.
Umadevi , the Court further held that when the services were
not terminated in terms of Rules, but on the ground that
various irregularities were committed in the selection process
involved, the applicability of the relevant provisions of the
statutes and the effect of provisions of Article 311 of the
Constitution was not required to be considered. However,
before terminating the appointments on this ground, the
appointing authority must take into consideration the
foundational facts. Only when such foundational facts are
established, the legal principles can be applied. The authority
taking decision to cancel the process or terminate the
appointment, if already appointed, had to establish that the
process was tainted; that the entire selection process was
liable to be cancelled and the question, which requires
consideration in such matters, is as to whether due to
misdeeds of some candidates, honest and meritorious
candidates should also suffer. The Court opined that a
distinction exists between a proven case of mass cheating for
a board examination and an unproven imputed charge of
corruption where the appointment of a civil servant is
involved. Only in the event it is found to be impossible or
highly improbable that the tainted case can be separated
from the non-tainted cases could en masse orders of
termination be issued. Both the State Government as also the
High Court in that view of the matter should have made all
endeavours to segregate the tainted from the non- tainted
candidates. 22. The Supreme Court also delineated the cases where
selection process could be perceived to be tainted by
categorising them as under: 23. The Court drew the distinction between those cases
where irregularities were found in the selection process
before the appointments could be made and those where
appointments had already been made. It is one thing to say
that having regard to the nature of selection process, no
person is appointed from the select list as no person has a
right to be appointed only because his name appears in the
select list, but a different standard must be adopted for
terminating the services of the officers who had completed
about three years of service. In those cases where the
appointees had put in a few years of service, the Court
opined that before terminating their services, compliance
with three principles at the hands of the State was imperative
viz.: ......................................................................................... 30. No doubt, there have been discrepancies in the selection
 process, as found by Prof. Vaid Prakash Committee on the
 basis of which he recommended cancellation of the results.
 However, the foregoing discussion would make it clear that
 the discrepancies were found in other cases and not in the
 case of the petitioners and it was also possible to separate
 the cases of the petitioners from those who were the
 beneficiaries of the irregularities. Prof. Vaid Prakash
 obviously did not examine the matter from this angle while
 suggesting cancellation. In view of the principles laid down
 by the Supreme Court in the judgments noted above, in
 particular the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra)
 wherein the Supreme Court re-stated the legal principles after
 scanning through the entire case law, the situation where the
 cases of those who were the bona fide and innocent persons
 can be saggregated, the selection in respect of those persons
 is not to be cancelled." 8. In conclusion, in the light of above ruling of the Hon'ble Apex Court

and the Coordinate Bench, as well as the facts of this case as discussed

in detail above, we have no hesitation in granting interim relief to the

applicant and, therefore, we stay the effect and operation of the impugned

order dated 23.12.2019. Let CA be filed within 4 weeks followed by RA, if

any, within 2 weeks thereafter. The OA be taken up for final order after

filing of all pleadings. 9. List this case on 13.05.2020 accordingly.