The Judgment of the Court was delivered by
 S.C. AGRAWAL, J.- The decision in these appeals would,
we hope, mark the culmination of the protracted litigation
arising	 out of a contract entered into	 by the	 parties on
August	24, 1964 for the supply and erection of a thermal
power plant at Renukoot in District Mirzapur, U.P. 2.	 Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. (for	short 'Renusagar'),
the appellant	in C.A. Nos. 71 and 71-A of 1990 and	 the
respondent in	 C.A. No. 370	 of 1992, is	 a company
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 engaged in
the production and sale of electric power. General Electric
Company	 (for short 'General Electric'), respondent in	C.A.
Nos. 71 and 71-A and appellant in C.A. No. 370 of 1992, is a
company incorporated under the laws of the State of New York
in United States of America and is engaged in the business
of manufacturing, selling and servicing electrical products
and various ancillary activities. After negotiations,	 the
parties	 arrived at an arrangement	whereunder General
Electric was to supply to Renusagar the equipment and power
services for setting up a thermal power plant to be known as
'Renusagar Power Station' at Renukoot and, on November	 27,
1963, Renusagar moved the Government of 654 India for its approval. By its letter dated	 January 2,
1964, the Government	of India gave its approval to	 the
proposals and thereafter a formal contract was executed by
the parties on August 24, 1964. Under the said contract,
General Electric undertook to supply equipment and services
for a	plant having a capacity of 135,800 K.W. The total
price for the electrical and mechanical equipment, spare
parts,	 freight forwarding services,	 plant	design	 and
consulting services was US $ 13,195,000. The contract price
for all electrical and mechanical equipment and spare parts
was FAS vessel, U.S.A. port so selected by seller (Article 11). All items of the equipment were to be delivered along
with vessel at New York not later than 15 months from	 the
contract effective date (which was December 31, 1964)	 and
the erection of the plant was to be completed within 30
months from the contract effective date (Article IV-A 1). 10
per cent of the total contract basic price (US $ 1,319,500)
was to be paid either in cash or by Letter of Credit.	 The
balance	 90 per cent of the price (US	$ 11,875,500)	plus
interest at the rate of 6 1/2 per cent per annum from	 the
16th to the 30th month of the contract effective date (US $
900,558.75) totalling US $ 12,776,058.75 was to be paid in
16 equal six monthly instalments commencing from the date of
the expiry of 30 months from the contract effective date,
and the last instalment was payable on the date of expiry of
120 months from the contract effective date (Article III).
Since the contract effective date was December 31, 1964	 the
first instalment was payable on June 30, 1967 and the last,
i.e., 16th instalment was payable on December 31, 1974.	 In
the contract,	it was also provided that Renusagar would
execute	 unconditional negotiable promissory notes in	four
series	(A-B-C-D) in respect of the 16 instalments [Article
111-A	3(a)]	and that the	notes shall be prepared
substantially in the form shown in the attached Ext.	 'B'
entitled "Promissory Note" and shall bear interest, at	 the
rate of 6 1/2 per cent per	 annum	on the	 outstanding
principal balance commencing from 30 months after contract
effective date [Article III-A 3(c)]. A provision was	also
made that the payment of the full amount of each note shall
be unconditionally guaranteed by the United Commercial	Bank
or other mutually acceptable bank. [Article III-A 3(e)].
The contract contained an arbitration clause which provides
that any disagreement	 arising out of or related to	 the
contract which the parties are unable to resolve by sincere
negotiation shall be finally settled in accordance with	 the
Arbitration Rules of the International Chamber of Commerce
(for short 'ICC'). Each party would appoint one arbitrator
and the Court of Arbitration of the ICC would appoint a
third arbitrator (Article XVII). It was also	agreed	that
the rights and obligations of the parties under the Contract
shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State
of New York, USA (Article XIX-A). 3. It	 was, also, provided	that if General Electric
received an exemption from the Government of India from	 the
payment	 of income tax levied by the Government of India on
interest payments made by Renusagar then the interest	rate
on that series of promissory notes as	 exempted shall be
reduced	 from 6 1/2 per cent to 6 per cent per annum
commencing on the date such exemption is made effective	 and
the notes so	affected shall be replaced by new notes
[Article III-A 3(b)].	In the contract it was	stated	that
General Electric intended to apply to the Central Government
of India for	exemption from income tax on the interest
(including capitalised interest and interest thereon)	 and
Renusagar undertook to assist General Electric in expediting
the application of General 655 Electric for exemption.	 It was also agreed that should	 the
application of	 General Electric be denied Renusagar	 may
withhold the Indian income tax applicable to any payments of
interest, but Renusagar was to furnish General Electric with
receipts on all withheld amounts paid to the Government of
India. [Article XIV-B]. 4. By its orders dated September 3, 1965 and June 7,	1967
the Government of India gave their approval under Section
10(15)(iv)(c) of the	Income Tax Act,	 1961 to the	loan
obtained by Renusagar from General Electric	and thereby
exempted the interest paid on the said loan from payment of
income	tax. The said exemption was, however, withdrawn by
the order of the Government of India dated September	 11,
1969 whereby the orders granting exemption were cancelled
retrospectively and General Electric was held liable to	 pay
Indian income tax on the interest payable @ 6.5 per cent per
annum. 5. Renusagar filed a writ petition (C.W. No. 179 of 1970)
before	Delhi High Court on February 24, 1970	 wherein it
challenged the above order of the Government of India dated
September 11, 1969 relating to cancellation or revocation of
the tax exemption. In the said writ petition, the Delhi
High Court on February 24, 1970 passed an ad interim order
restraining the Government of India and its officers	from
enforcing or implementing the said order dated September 11,
1969.	The said order was continued by order dated May	 18,
1970 subject to Renusagar furnishing security for Rs 4 lakhs
to the satisfaction of Commissioner of Income Tax, Lucknow.
Renusagar furnished the necessary security and as a result,
the operation	of the order dated September 11, 1969	 was
suspended. Renusagar, however, did not remit the amount of
interest calculated @	 6 per cent per annum	 payable to
General	 Electric in terms of the contract. Renusagar	only
remitted 27 per cent of the amount of interest calculated @
6 1/2 per cent per annum and it did not deposit the balance
amount of 73 per cent by way of tax with the Government	 but
retained the same with themselves.	 It, however,	sent
letters	 to General Electric to the effect that they	 had
deducted the said amount towards tax and had retained	 the
same with itself. Originally General Electric was	 not
impleaded as a party in the writ petition before the Delhi
High Court and it got itself impleaded as a respondent in
the writ petition by moving an application dated October 28,
1977. The writ petition was decided by the Delhi High Court
by its	 judgment dated November 17, 1980 whereby the	writ
petition was allowed and the order dated September 11,	1969
was set aside.	 As a result the exemption from the payment
of income tax	 on the interest payable by Renusagar	 was
restored and the liability of Renusagar for interest	 was
reduced from 6 1/2 per cent to 6 per cent. On June 3, 1981,
Renusagar moved the Reserve Bank of India for permission to
remit the balance amount of regular interest calculated @ 6
per cent per annum to General Electric and on	February 3,
1982, the Income Tax Officer, Bombay issued "No Objection
Certificate" for repatriating the balance regular interest
amount of US $ 2.130 million. The said amount was, however,
not remitted by Renusagar to General Electric. 6. It appears that there was some delay on the part of the
General	 Electric in adhering to the time schedule for	 the
supply	of equipment and keeping the same in view General
Electric by their letter dated January 5, 1967 agreed to
defer the payment of the first instalment payable on	June
30, 1967 by six months and suggested that the promissory
notes shall be recast into 15 notes instead of 16 656 which would commence on the 36th month from the contract
effective date and capitalised interest shall be calculated
for 20	 months instead of 14 months and the said interest
would then be reduced by a sum of 132,500 US $. By another
letter	dated October 4, 1967, General Electric agreed to
recast	the note structure to provide for 14 notes with	 the
first note becoming due on June 30, 1968 instead of December
31, 1967 and the capitalised interest was to be calculated
for 20 months instead of 14 months and it would be reduced
to 132,500 US $. It appears that during the course of supply
of equipment and erection of the plant, some disputes arose
between	 the parties and Renusagar made certain claims
against	 General Electric some of which were	accepted by
General Electric and a settlement was arrived at on December
10, 1968 whereunder General Electric agreed that the payment
of the	 instalments due on December 30, 1968 and June	 30,
1969 with accrued interest would be deferred	for payment
with the result that there would be no payment on December
31, 1968 and June 30, 1969 both of interest and principal
and that the interest accrued up to December 31, 1968 and to
accrue	up to June 30, 1969 on the outstanding	balance	 due
would be calculated at the rate provided for in the contract
and capitalised and that the entire sum,	namely,	 the
principal and interest to be so capitalised would be recast
in 13 notes, the first of which would be payable on December
31, 1969 and the last on December 31, 1975. As a result of
these discussions and settlement, instalments Nos. 1, 2, 4
and 5	were not paid	 by Renusagar	on the	 due dates.
Renusagar moved the Government of India for approval of	 the
revised schedules regarding the payments of the	 instalments
to General Electric.	The said request of Renusagar	was,
however, not accepted by the Government of India and by
their letter dated August 1, 1969, the Government of India
expressed their inability to agree to the revised proposals
for repayment	in view of the larger outgo	 of foreign
exchange (by way of interest) which was not	contemplated
when the loan was approved originally. Renusagar were,
therefore, asked to take necessary action to effect payments
of the past instalments immediately. The request for review
of the said decision was rejected by the Government of India
by their letter dated August 4, 1969. The first instalment
which was payable on June 30, 1967	under the original
contract was paid by Renusagar in instalments by July 1970,
the second instalment which was payable on December 31, 1967
was paid in instalments by	December 1971,	 the fourth
instalment which was payable on December 31, 1968 was	paid
in instalments	 by December 1973 and the fifth instalment
which was payable on June 30, 1969 was paid in	 instalments
by February 1976. 7. On	 March 1, 1982, General Electric served a notice on
Renusagar indicating its intention to arbitrate pursuant to
clause	XVII of the Contract.	On March 2, 1982, General
Electric made a request to the Court of Arbitration of	 ICC
for arbitration of the disputes between General Electric and
Renusagar. ICC, after taking cognizance of the said request
for arbitration made	by General Electric,	called	upon
Renusagar to nominate their arbitrator, file its reply	 and
remit certain	sums towards administrative expenses	 and
arbitration fees. Renusagar raised an objection that	 the
claims	of General Electric did not fall within the purview
of arbitration	 clause in the Contract and challenged	 the
arbitrability of the claims. The Arbitration Court of	 ICC
accepted that	there was a prima facie dispute	 within	 the
agreement and appointed Rt. Hon. Peter Thomes, Q.C. MP as
Chairman of the Arbitral Tribunal and confirmed the 657 appointment of Prof.	 Boris	 1. Bittker as arbitrator
nominated by General Electric and Dr	R.K.	Dixit	 as
arbitrator nominated by Renusagar. 8. On June 11, 1982, Renusagar filed a suit (Suit No.	 832
of 1982) in the Bombay	 High Court, on its original side,
against	 General Electric and the ICC seeking a	 declaration
that the claims referred to the arbitration	 of ICC by
General	 Electric were	 beyond the purview and scope of
Article XVII of the Contract dated August 24, 1964 and	that
General	 Electric was	not entitled to refer the same to
arbitration with consequential prayers for	 injunctions
restraining the ICC and General Electric to proceed further
with the reference and restraining	ICC from requiring
Renusagar to	make any deposit towards administrative
expenses and arbitration fees. Renusagar obtained an ex
parte ad interim relief in the said suit. General Electric
filed Arbitration Petition No. 96 of 1982 under Section 3 of
the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act,	1961
(hereinafter referred	to as	'the Foreign Awards Act')
seeking	 stay of Suit No. 832 of 1982 and all	 proceedings
therein	 with a prayer for vacating the ad interim ex parte
reliefs	 obtained by Renusagar in the said suit. Both	 the
matters, namely, stay petition of General Electric under
Section	 3 of the Foreign Awards Act and Renusagar's notice
of motion for confirmation of ad interim relief were heard
together and disposed of by a learned Single Judge of	 the
Bombay High Court by a common judgment and order dated April
20, 1983 whereby the prayer for stay of the suit filed by
General	 Electric under Section 3 of the Foreign Awards	 Act
was allowed and all proceedings in the said suit were stayed
and all the interim reliefs which were granted earlier by ad
interim order were vacated. C.A. Nos. 404-405 of 1983 filed
by Renusagar against the said judgment of the learned Single
Judge were dismissed by a Division Bench of the High Court
by judgment dated October 21, 1983. The appeals filed by
Renusagar against the said decision of the High Court	were
dismissed by this Court on August 16, 1984. (See : Renusagar
Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric	Co. 1	 hereinafter
referred to as 'Renusagar Case 1'.) In the said case,	this
Court (Tulzapurkar and Pathak, JJ.) has held that the three
claims referred by General Electric to the ICC do 'arise out
of' and are 'related to the contract'	 and squarely	fall
within	the widely-worded arbitration clause contained in
Article XVII of the Contract. 9. On	 August 19, 1982, General Electric filed a suit in
the Calcutta High Court against United Commercial Bank to
enforce	 the bank guarantee given by the said Bank at	 the
instance of Renusagar. As a counter to the	 said suit,
Renusagar, on November 25, 1982, filed a suit (No. 127 of
1982) in the Court of Civil Judge, Mirzapur, U.P. praying
for a	declaration that the	guarantee given by United
Commercial Bank for and on	behalf	of Renusagar stood
discharged and had become ineffective and unenforceable	 and
for a mandatory injunction directing and ordering General
Electric to settle the claim of Renusagar regarding 75	 MVA
Transformers and to satisfy the settlement validly arrived
at of the claim of Renusagar as mentioned in the plaint of
the said suit.	General Electric filed an application in the
Mirzapur Court	 whereby it was prayed that the suit	 was
liable to be stayed under Section 10 and/or Section 151 CPC
in respect of the first relief and under Section 3 of	 the
Foreign	 Awards Act in respect of the second relief claimed
by Renusagar in the plaint. The said
1 (1 984) 4 SCC 679 : (1985) 1 SCR 432 658 application was rejected by Mirzapur Court and thereupon
General	 Electric filed a petition under Article 227 of	 the
Constitution before the Allahabad High Court for quashing
the proceedings in the suit. The	said petition	was,
however, dismissed by the High Court by order dated April 4,
1985.	Thereupon General Electric filed Civil	 Appeal	 No.
2319 of 1986 in this Court which was allowed by this Court
(Chinnappa Reddy and Jagannatha Shetty, JJ.)	by judgment
dated August 11, 1987 reported as General Electric Co. v.
Renusagar Power Co.2 hereinafter referred to as 'Renusagar Case II'. As a result of the said judgment , the proceedings
in Suit No. 127 of 1982 in the court of Civil Judge,
Mirzapur were stayed under Section 3 of the Foreign Awards
Act. 10. We	 may now revert to the arbitration	proceedings.
After the decision of the learned Single Judge of the Bombay
High Court staying further proceedings in Suit No. 832 of
1992 and vacating the interim order passed in the said suit,
Renusagar entered into the arbitration proceedings on	June
9, 1983 under protest and without prejudice to its claim on
arbitrability and gave answer to the	 claims	 of General
Electric and also made counter-claims.	On February 7 and 8,
1984 both the parties met with the Arbitral	Tribunal in
Paris and agreed to sign the Terms of Reference, though
Renusagar did	so under protest and	 without prejudice.
Certain	 amendments were subsequently made in the Terms of
Reference. In the said Terms of Reference the issues to be
determined were defined in clauses (a) to (cc) of para	 22.
Issues	in clauses (a) to (f) of para 22 of the Terms of
Reference were determined by an interim award	on December
11, 1984 wherein the Arbitral Tribunal found that General
Electric and Renusagar were parties to a valid agreement to
arbitrate all	disputes between them	arising	 out of or
related to the 1964 Contract and that the issues referred to
the Arbitral Tribunal, apart from two minor exceptions which
were reserved for determination, were such arbitral disputes
and that the	 Arbitral Tribunal had jurisdiction	 to
adjudicate on them. The Arbitral Tribunal also held	that
the applicable law was that of the State of New York, U.S.A. 11. After the decision of this Court in Renusagar Case	 II,
both the parties appeared before the Arbitral	Tribunal in
Paris for a hearing which lasted for ten days between
February 25 and March 8, 1985. Each party was	 represented
by counsel and legal and other advisers and issues (g) to (p) of	 para 22 of the Terms of Reference were	 argued	 and
submitted for	consideration by both	the sides and	 the
hearing	 was adjourned to a later date	 for more detailed
consideration to be given to the remaining issues and	 for
further written submissions to be made by both parties.	 The
next hearing was fixed to be in London to begin on October
1, 1985 and both parties were summoned to appear before	 the
Arbitral Tribunal. Khaitan	& Partners, lawyers	 for
Renusagar sent a letter dated July 24, 1985 to the Arbitral
Tribunal, wherein they stated that an Indian Civil Court had
seisin	of the whole of the subject-matter of the reference
in this arbitration and submitted that in consequence	 the
Arbitral Tribunal and ICC had become functus	officio	 and
that no further proceedings in this arbitration should be
taken by the Arbitral Tribunal. The	said submission by
Renusagar was disputed by General Electric and the Arbitral
Tribunal informed the	 parties that the matter would be
considered as a preliminary issue at the scheduled meeting
in London on October 1, 1985. The scheduled meeting took
2 (1987)4SCC137:(1987)3SCR858 659 place in London on October 1, 1985.	 General Electric,
represented by	 counsel and advisers, appeared	 before	 the
Arbitral Tribunal but	 Renusagar failed to appear.	 The
Arbitral Tribunal considered the written submissions of
Renusagar on the issue of the jurisdiction of the Arbitral
Tribunal and heard the arguments of General Electric and by
majority (Dr Dixit dissenting), the Arbitral Tribunal ruled
that their jurisdiction remained and that the	 arbitration
should proceed in the absence of Renusagar. It appears that
before	the meeting on October 1, 1985, each Arbitrator	 had
received from	 the parties during the course of	 the
arbitration a	 total	 of 33	 bound	volumes	 of typed
submissions, exhibits	 and legal authorities, (General
Electric having presented 19 and Renusagar	14) and in
addition each party had put before the Arbitral Tribunal a
large number of papers. On October 2, 3 and 4, 1985	 the
Arbitral Tribunal considered the said documents as well as
the written submissions of Renusagar on issues (q) to	(bb)
of the Terms of Reference and heard the arguments of counsel
for General Electric in reply.	 The Arbitral Tribunal	also
considered the submissions of Renusagar on the validity of
the claim of entitlement of General Electric to 'dollar	 for
dollar'	 foreign tax credit at the relevant period in	this
action	and also heard General Electric on the	question of
costs.	Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal by a majority	 (Dr
Dixit dissenting) made the award on September 16, 1986. 12. The Arbitral Tribunal upheld the claim of GEC for US $
2,130,785.52 towards regular interest which was withheld by
Renusagar. It	 was not disputed by Renusagar that it	 had
retained the said amount. The issue was whether by doing so
Renusagar acted wrongfully. The Arbitral Tribunal has found
that the said withholding or retention of the amount of
interest by Renusagar was wrongful since the failure on	 the
part of Renusagar to pay the taxes over to the	 Indian	 tax
authorities rendered it impossible for General Electric to
get the U.S. foreign tax credit to which it would otherwise
have been entitled for the amount withheld. It was	also
held that nothing in the 1964 contract authorises nonpayment
of either the interest or the withheld taxes for tactical
reasons arising out of litigation brought by Renusagar.	 The
Arbitral Tribunal rejected the contention of Renusagar	that
the claim in	respect of regular interest was barred by
limitation and	 held that the	 applications submitted by
Renusagar to Reserve	Bank of India on June 3, 1981	 and
August	29, 1981 for permission to remit the said amount to
General	 Electric amount to acknowledgement. It was	also
held that the said sum had to be computed in U.S. dollars
regardless of	variation in dollar-rupee exchange	rate
prevailing from time	to time. As	regards	 claim	 for
compensatory damages on the said amount of regular interest,
which was withheld by Renusagar, the	 Arbitral Tribunal,
after referring to the decisions of New York	Courts,	 has
held that an arbitrator's paramount responsibility is to
reach an equitable result and that it is a basic principle
of damages for breach of contract applicable throughout	 the
U.S. (including New York) that a party to a contract who is
injured	 by its breach is entitled to compensation for	 the
injury	sustained and is entitled to be placed	 insofar as
this can be done by money in the same position he would have
occupied if the contract had been performed. The Arbitral
Tribunal found that General Electric would have benefited
from 'dollar for dollar' from the foreign tax credits	that
it could have	 claimed had Renusagar	 paid the disputed
amounts	 over to the Indian tax authorities and supplied
General Electric with the appropriate tax certificate.	 The
Arbitral Tribunal, therefore, awarded compensatory damages
and computed the same by applying 660 the average prime rate to the amounts withheld and observed
that although General Electric was entitled to interest from
the due dates of the various notes but the interest that had
been claimed by General Electric in the Terms of Reference
was computed from the later dates set out in	 a detailed
computation supplied to the Arbitral	Tribunal and since
General	 Electric had	accepted these later dates in	 its
submission, the Arbitral Tribunal awarded	compensatory
damages	 computed by applying the average prime rate to	 the
amounts	 withheld commencing with the dates listed in	 the
statement and compounded annually commencing with the	last
day of	 the calendar year for each amount. The Arbitral
Tribunal rejected the contention urged on	 behalf	 of
Renusagar that	 award of interest on regular	interest as
compensatory damages would violate public policy of	 the
State of New York against 'interest on interest'. Relying
upon the decision of the New York Court of Claims in City of
New York v. State of New York3 the Arbitral Tribunal	held
that interest on interest is not against public policy in
the State of New York.	The Arbitral Tribunal also rejected
the contention of Renusagar that it would violate New York's
public	policy	to award compound interest as	compensatory
damages and, after referring to the various decisions of the
courts	in the State of New York, the Arbitral Tribunal	 has
held that compounding of interest is equally appropriate in
actions	 of an equitable nature and in the circumstances of
this case compounding of interest would not	violate	 the
public policy of the State of New York.	 In this context the
Arbitral Tribunal has	 pointed out that they were	 not
concerned with a contract to pay compound interest but	with
the propriety of compounding interest in fashioning a remedy
for a breach of contract in order to put the injured party
in the same economic position it would have occupied if	 the
contract had been duly performed. As regards the claim	 for
delinquent interest on late	payment	 of instalments by
Renusagar, the	 Arbitral Tribunal held that Renusagar	 was
liable	to pay	 such delinquent interest. The Arbitral
Tribunal found	 that under the 1964	Contract the notes
evidencing the obligation of Renusagar to pay the purchase
price 'shall bear interest, at the rate of 6.5 per cent	 per
annum on the outstanding principal balance', subject to	 the
agreed reduction to 6 per cent commencing with the date when
tax exemption, if granted, is made effective and that	 the
rescheduling negotiations on which Renusagar relied never
resulted in an effective agreement and there was no evidence
of a waiver by General Electric of its right to be paid on
the original due dates when the rescheduling plan collapsed
and further that Renusagar had acknowledged in telex dated
March 25, 1976 that they were liable for interest on	 the
delayed	 payment of the principal. The Arbitral Tribunal
also rejected	the contention that the claim	 of General
Electric in this regard was barred	by the	 statute of
limitation. Taking into account the acknowledgement
contained in the telex dated March 25, 1976, the Arbitral
Tribunal deducted a sum of US $ 316,610 from the amount of
US $ 783,686.20 computed as interest @ 6 per cent and	held
that General Electric was entitled to net amount of US $
467,076.20 by	way of delinquent interest. The Arbitral
Tribunal rejected the contention urged on	 behalf	 of
Renusagar that even if period of limitation is computed from
telex of March 25, 1976 the claim was barred by limitation
in view of the four-year limitation prescribed by Section 2- 275(1) of New York's version of the Uniform Commercial	Code
which came into force with effect from September 27, 1964.
The Arbitral
3 408 NYS 2d 702, 707 (1978) 661 Tribunal held that the said provision was not applicable to
the present case and that it is governed by	 the 6-year
period of limitation that was prescribed in the State of New
York prior to the commencement of the said provision.	 The
Arbitral Tribunal further held that General Electric	 was
entitled to compensatory damages on the aforesaid amount of
delinquent interest in the same manner as damages were to be
computed on the unpaid amount of regular interest.	 The
Arbitral Tribunal also upheld the claim of General Electric
for US $ 119,053.31 towards purchase price of	spare parts
and further held that the said claim was not barred by
limitation in view of the acknowledgement by Renusagar in
the telex dated March 25, 1976.	 The Arbitral Tribunal	also
held that compensatory damages were payable on	 account of
Renusagar's failure to pay for spare parts in the	same
manner	as damages for failure of Renusagar to	pay regular
interest. With regard to the counter-claim made	 by
Renusagar, the Arbitral Tribunal had earlier rejected	 the
purported withdrawal of the said counter-claim in respect of
items 2 to 8 by Renusagar and after considering the	said
counter-claim on merits, the Arbitral Tribunal rejected	 the
same in respect of all the eight items. In view of	 the
rejection of counter-claim of Renusagar, the Arbitral
Tribunal rejected the claim made by General Electric by	 way
of reply to the claim of Renusagar. In the matter of costs,
the Arbitral Tribunal held that Renusagar must pay the costs
of arbitration	 and apart from the amount which General
Electric was required to pay towards administrative expenses
and arbitration fees,	 the Arbitral	Tribunal held	that
Renusagar must also pay the normal legal costs incurred by
General	 Electric. The Arbitral Tribunal awarded	 the
following amounts against various heads of claims: (viii)	the award of interest on interest or	compensatory
damages	 in lieu of interest	 on regular interest	 and
delinquent interest and the award of compound	interest is
contrary to public policy; (ix) the compensatory damages
were excessive and unusual; (x) the Chairman of the Arbitral
Tribunal was biased against Renusagar; and (xi) the costs of
arbitration were unconscionable and excessive. 15. The learned Single Judge (Pendse, J.) has considered
all the aforesaid objections raised on behalf of Renusagar
in his very comprehensive judgment dated October 21,	1988
wherein	 after	rejecting the said objections, he has	held
that the award is enforceable under the provisions of	 the
Foreign	 Awards Act and on that basis a decree in terms of
the award was drawn. 16. Renusagar	filed an appeal (Appeal No. 680 of 1989)
under clause 15 of the Letters Patent of the	Bombay	High
Court against the said judgment of the learned Single Judge
which was disposed of by a Division Bench of the said	High
Court (C. Mookerjee, C.J. and Mrs Sujata Manohar, J.) by
judgment dated October 12, 1989. The learned Judges of	 the
High Court held that the said appeal was not maintainable in
view of Section 6(2) of the Foreign Awards Act.	 The learned
Judges,	 however, examined the matter on merits and found
that there was no substance in the appeal. In this context
the learned Judges have dealt with the objection about	 the
arbitrators having become functus officio on 663 account of the pendency of	 the civil suit filed by
Renusagar in the Mirzapur Court; the award being contrary to
public	policy; the award being not binding; the failure to
file the authenticated copy of the award and	 the
jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court to entertain	 the
petition and they have rejected the contentions urged by
Renusagar in respect of the said objections.	 Since	 the
learned Single Judge had not specified the rate of exchange
for conversion	 of the decretal amount	 expressed in	U.S.
dollars to Indian rupees, the learned Judges have dealt with
the said question and taking into consideration the decision
of this Court in Forasol v. ONGC4 they have directed	that
the date of conversion of decretal amount which is in	U.S.
dollars	 to Indian rupees shall be the date on which	 the
learned	 Single	 Judge completed pronouncing of judgment,
i.e., October 21, 1988 and that opening the rate of exchange
shall be the selling rate of U.S. dollars as ascertained by
the State Bank of India. The learned Judges have granted a
certificate for appeal to this Court under Article 134-A read with Article 133 of the Constitution since they	felt
that the case	 involves substantial questions	 of law of
general importance which need to be decided by this Court. 17. Civil Appeal No. 71 of 1990 has been filed by Renusagar
on the basis of the said certificate against the judgment of
the Division Bench of High Court dated October 12, 1989.
Renusagar has	also filed Civil Appeal No. 71-A of	1990
against	 the judgment	of the learned	Single	Judge dated
October 21, 1988 after obtaining the special leave to appeal
from this Court. General Electric has filed Civil Appeal
No. 379 of 1992 against the judgment of the Division Bench
of High Court dated October 12, 1989 after obtaining special
leave to appeal. The said appeal of General Electric	 has
been filed by way of abundant caution and is confined to the
directions given by the Division Bench of High Court in
paras 117 to 119 of the judgment with regard	to rate of
exchange for conversion of the decretal amount from	U.S.
dollars to Indian rupees. According to General Electric the
said rate of exchange should have been the rate prevailing
on the date of payment. 18. During the pendency of these appeals this Court, by
Order dated February 21, 1990 on I.A. No. 1 of 1990 in Civil
Appeal No. 71 of 1990, stayed the operation of the judgment
and decree under appeal subject to Renusagar depositing in
the original side of	 the Bombay High Court, the	sums
equivalent to one-half of the decretal amount calculated as
on date and furnishing security to the satisfaction of	 the
High Court in	 respect of the	 decretal amount. General
Electric was	permitted to withdraw	 the deposit	upon
furnishment of security by way of bank guarantee for the sum
to be	withdrawn in excess of Rupees four crores to	 the
satisfaction of the High Court. In the said order it	 was
also directed that interest @ 10 per cent per annum would be
payable	 by Renusagar on the balance of the decretal amount
in the event of its failing in	 the	appeal	 and
correspondingly	 General Electric would be liable to	 pay
interest at the same rate on amount withdrawn by it in	 the
event of the appeal succeeding.	 In pursuance of this order,
Renusagar deposited, a sum of Rs 9,69,26,590.00 on March 20,
1990 which was withdrawn by GEC after furnishing necessary
bank guarantee.	 By another order dated November 6, 1990 on
I.A. No. 3 of 1990 in Civil Appeal No. 71 of	 1990,	this
Court directed Renusagar to deposit a further sum of Rs 1
4 1984 Supp SCC 263 :(1984) 1 SCR 526 664 crore and to furnish a bank guarantee for Rs 1.92 crores.
In pursuance of the said order, Renusagar deposited, on
December 3, 1990, a sum of Rs 1 crore which amount has	also
been withdrawn by General Electric. Thus, a total sum of Rs
10,69,26,590.00 has been deposited by Renusagar and the same
has been withdrawn by General Electric. 19. Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel appearing
for Renusagar,	 and Shri Shanti Bhushan, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for General Electric, have made elaborate
submissions before us. The oral submissions have	been
supplemented by written submissions. 20. During the course of his submissions, Shri Venugopal
did not pursue some of the objections that were raised by
Renusagar before the High Court. But at the same time he
has raised certain objections which were not raised before
the High Court. Shri Venugopal has not disputed	 the
liability of Renusagar for US $ 2,130,785.52 awarded under
item No. 1 towards regular interest withheld by Renusagar
and US $ 119,053.00 awarded under item No. 5 towards price
of spare parts. The submissions of	Shri Venugopal	 are
confined to the award of compensatory damages	 under	item
Nos. 2, 4 and 6, delinquent interest under item No. 3	 and
costs under item No. 7. The submissions of Shri Venugopal
broadly	 fall under two heads : (i) enforceability of	 the
award;	and (ii) the rate of exchange for conversion of	 the
decretal amount from U.S. dollars to Indian rupees. 21. Before we proceed to examine the submissions made by
learned counsel, we	consider it necessary	 to briefly
refer to the background in which the Foreign Awards Act	 was
enacted	 because it	 would	have a	 bearing on	 the
interpretation of the provisions of the said Act. 22. Arbitration is a well-recognised mode for resolving
disputes arising out of commercial transactions. This is
equally	 true for international commercial transactions.
With the growth of international commerce there was an
increase in disputes arising out of such transactions being
adjudicated through arbitration. One of the problems faced
in such arbitrations related to recognition and	 enforcement
of an arbitral award made in one country by the courts of
other countries. This difficulty has been sought to be
removed	 through various international conventions.	 The
first such international convention was the Geneva Protocol
of 1923 which was drawn up on the initiative of ICC under
the auspices of the League of Nations.	The Geneva Protocol
had two objectives, first, it sought to make	 arbitration
agreements, and arbitration	 clauses in	 particular,
enforceable internationally; and secondly, it sought to
ensure	that awards made pursuant to such	 arbitration
agreements would be enforced in the territory of the State
in which they were made. The Geneva Protocol of 1923	 was
followed by the Geneva Convention of 1927 which was	also
drawn up under the auspices of the League of Nations.	 The
purpose	 of this Convention was to widen the scope of	 the
Geneva	Protocol of 1923 by	providing recognition	 and
enforcement of	 protocol awards within the territory of
contracting States, (not merely the State in which the award
was made). (See : Alen Redfern and Martin Hunter: Law &
Practice of International Commercial Arbitration, 2nd	Edn.
pp. 61-62). India was a signatory to the Protocol of	1923
and the Convention of 1927. With a view to implementing the
obligations undertaken under the said Protocol	 and
Convention, the Arbitration (Protocol & Convention)	Act,
1937 was enacted. A number of problems were encountered 665 in the operation of the aforesaid Geneva treaties inasmuch
as there were limitations in relation to their field of
application and under the Geneva Convention of 1927, a party
seeking	 enforcement had to prove the conditions necessary
for enforcement and in order to show that the	 awards	 had
become	final in its country of origin the successful party
was often obliged to seek a declaration in the countries
where the arbitration took place to the effect that	 the
award was enforceable in that country before it could go
ahead and enforce the award in the courts of the place of
enforcement. ICC, in 1953, promoted a new treaty to govern
international commercial arbitration. The proposals of	 ICC
were taken up by the United Nations Economic	 and Social
Council and it led to the adoption of the Convention on	 the
Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards at
New York, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 'the New	York
Convention'). The New York Convention is an improvement on
the Geneva Convention of 1927 in the sense that it provides
for a	much more simple and effective method of obtaining
recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards	 and
it replaces Geneva Convention of 1927 as between the States
which are parties to both the Conventions. The New	York
Convention also gives much wider effect to the validity of
arbitration agreements	 than does the	Geneva	Protocol of
1923. [See : Alan Redfern and Martin Hunter, Law & Practice
of International Commercial Arbitration, (1 991) 2nd	Edn.
pp. 62-63.] 23. India was a party to the New York Convention.	 The
Foreign	 Awards Act has been enacted to give effect to	 the
New York Convention and for purposes connected therewith. In
the Statement	of Objects and Reasons, reference has	been
made to the defects in the Geneva Convention of 1927 which
"hampered the	 speedy	 settlement of	 disputes through
arbitration and hence no longer met the requirements of
international trade" and which led to the adoption of	 the
New York Convention. Section 2 of the Act	defines	 the
expression 'foreign award'. Section 3 makes provision	 for
stay of proceedings in respect of matters to be referred to
arbitration. Section 4 deals with effect of foreign awards.
Sub-section (1) of Section 4 provides that a foreign award
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be enforceable
in India as if it were an award made on a matter referred to
arbitration in India. Sub-section (2) prescribes that	 any
foreign	 award	which would be enforceable under this	 Act
shall be treated as binding for all purposes on the persons
as between whom it was made and may be relied on by any of
those persons by way of defence, setoff or otherwise in	 any
legal proceedings in India. Section 5 makes provision	 for
filing of foreign awards in Court. In sub-section (1) it is
laid down that any person interested in a foreign award	 may
apply to any court having jurisdiction over the subject-
matter	of the award that the award be filed in Court.	Sub-
section	 (2) requires that such an application shall be in
writing	 and shall be numbered and registered	 as a	suit
between the applicant as plaintiff and the other parties as
defendants. Sub-section (3) requires the court to	give
notice	to the parties to the arbitration other than	 the
applicant requiring them to	show cause within a	time
specified why the award should not be filed. Section 6 deals
with enforcement of foreign awards. Sub-section (1)	lays
down that where the Court is satisfied that	the foreign
award is enforceable under the Act, the Court	shall order
the award to	be filed and shall proceed to pronounce
judgment according to the award. Sub-section (2) provides
that upon the judgment so pronounced a decree shall follow,
no appeal shall lie from such decree except 666 insofar	 as the decree is in excess of or not in accordance
with the award. Section 7 contains	the conditions	 for
enforcement of foreign awards and prescribes	 the
circumstances under which foreign awards will not	 be
enforced. Section 8 requires the production of the original
award or a duly authenticated copy thereof	as well as
original agreement for arbitration or a duly certified	copy
thereof	 and the production of evidence to prove that	 the
award is a foreign award. Section 9 is a saving clause
which excludes	 the applicability of the Act	 to matters
specified therein. Section 10 provides for repeal of	 the Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 , in relation
to foreign awards to which the Act applies.	 Section 11
provides for rule-making power of the High Court. The	 New
York Convention is appended as a schedule to	the Foreign
Awards Act. 24. In	 the present case, we are concerned with conditions
of enforcement	 laid down in Section 7 , which	provides as
follows: 25. The objection of Renusagar against enforceability of
the award is based on (i) Section 7(1)(a)(ii) of the Foreign
Awards	Act, on the ground that Renusagar was unable to
present	 its case; and (ii) Section	7(1)(b)(ii) of	 the
Foreign	 Awards Act, on the ground that the enforcement of
the award would be against public policy. 26. In support of his submission that Renusagar was unable
to present its case, Shri Venugopal has urged that after the
Mirzapur Court had refused to stay the civil suit filed by
Renusagar on the application submitted by General Electric
under Section 3 of the Foreign Awards Act on July 9, 1985,
Renusagar had	raised a preliminary objection	 before	 the
Arbitral Tribunal that it had become functus officio and on
the said objection raised by Renusagar, the Arbitral
Tribunal had issued a further notice on September 2,	1985
stating that the effect of the rejection of the	 application
under Section	3 of the Foreign Awards Act would	 be
considered as a preliminary issue at the scheduled meeting
of the	 Arbitral Tribunal fixed for October 1,	 1985.	 The
submission of	Shri Venugopal is that	 Renusagar was	 not
informed by the Arbitral Tribunal that if the	decision of
the Arbitral Tribunal on the objection that the Arbitral
Tribunal had become functus officio were to	 go against
Renusagar, the Arbitral Tribunal would straight away proceed
to hear the case on merits without informing Renusagar about
its decision and that if Renusagar had been put on notice,
it would have been able to decide whether to proceed	with
the merits or	 not and that the action of the Arbitral
Tribunal in going into the merits of the dispute without
notice	to Renusagar was a gross, blatant and	unpardonable
violation of	principles of	natural	 justice and	 the
elementary tenets of fair play inasmuch as on account of the
said procedure adopted by the Arbitral Tribunal, Renusagar
was deprived of an opportunity to meet and deal with	 the
entirety of claims of General Electric. 27. As	 regards bar to the enforcement of the	award under
Section	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the	Foreign	 Awards	 Act,	Shri
Venugopal has argued that : (i) under Section	7(1)(b)(ii) ,
enforcement of the award could be refused by the courts in
India not only on the ground that the award is against	 the
public	policy	of India but also that it is	against	 the
public policy of the State of New York; (ii) the expression
"public policy" in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Act has to be
construed in a liberal sense and not narrowly and it would
include within its ambit disregard of the provisions of	 the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (hereinafter referred
as FERA) and would also cover unjust enrichment; (iii) it
would be contrary to the public policy of India as well as
of the State of New York to award interest on interest	 and
compounding it further and to award damages on damages; (iv)
under the contract, interest was payable only up to the date
of maturity of each promissory note and no interest	 was
payable	 for the period subsequent to the said date and	 the
only remedy available to General Electric in the event of
default	 in payment of an instalment on the due date was to
enforce	 the bank guarantee or to recall all the promissory
notes; (v) under the original approval dated January 2, 1964
given by the Government of India the total amount of	loan
was to be repaid in sixteen semi-annual instalments between
30 and 120 months from contract effective date and payment
of interest was specifically 668 restricted for	 the period from 16th	to 30th month	 and
thereafter upon capitalisation from the 30th month to	 the
120th month and no interest	 was payable without	FERA
sanction after	 due date of	each instalment; (vi)	 no
liability for interest for delayed payment of	 instalments
would accrue in respect of the period from June 30, 1967 to
August 1, 1969 while the application for approval under FERA
was pending before the Government of India; (vii) after	 the
refusal	 by the Government to give its approval to	 the
rescheduling of the instalments the award of interest was in
breach of the prohibition contained in FERA and was contrary
to public policy of India; (viii) while awarding
compensatory damages under item Nos. 2 and 4 the Arbitral
Tribunal has failed to deduct 46 per cent U.S. tax payable
by General Electric on the amount of regular interest	 and
delinquent interest and compensatory damages could only be
awarded	 on the amount receivable by General Electric after
deducting the	said tax and this has	resulted in unjust
enrichment which is	contrary to public policy;	(ix)
compensatory damages have been awarded by way of interest on
interest and that too by compounding the rate	of interest
which is contrary to public policy of India and New York; (x) compensatory damages awarded on	delinquent interest
under item No. 4 constitutes award of damages upon damages
which is contrary to public policy of India; (xi) award of
compensatory damages on regular interest under item No. 2 in
respect	 of the period from 1970 to 1980 when	the interim
order passed by the Delhi High Court in the writ petition
was operative was impermissible and against public policy; (xii) the amount awarded as costs is	 unconscionable	 and
constitutes unjust enrichment inasmuch as it includes	 the
amount	which was admitted as part of the legal fees	 and
expenses for proceedings in India and which was found to be
inadmissible by the Arbitral Tribunal and the	same amount
was transposed into cost of the arbitration on the pretext
that the material collected for litigation in India was also
used in the arbitration proceedings; and (xiii) there	 has
been violation of principles of natural justice inasmuch as
the vouchers of costs regarding legal fees and expenses were
never shown or given to Renusagar nor were its objections
heard in this regard. 28. With regard to rate of exchange for conversion of	 the
decretal amount in U.S. dollars to	Indian	rupees,	 the
submission of Shri Venugopal is that the date with reference
to which conversion of foreign currency is to be made is a
matter of substance and is governed by lex contractus, i.e.,
the law of the contract, and not by lexfori, i.e., the	 law
of the forum.	It has been urged that the law of the State
of New York is the law of the contract and that the said law
provides the date of breach as the date of conversion	 and
therefore, the	 amount awarded in U.S.	 dollars under	 the
award of the Arbitral Tribunal must be converted into Indian
currency on the basis of the rate prevalent on the date of
the breach. It has been submitted that the decision of this
Court in Forasol v. O.N.G.C.4 on which reliance has	been
placed	by the	 Division Bench of the High Court, has no
application to	 the present case because in that case	 the
Court was not dealing with a foreign award but was dealing
with an award made under the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 . 29. Shri Shanti Bhushan, has, on the other hand, submitted
that : (i) the scope of enquiry in proceedings under Section
5 of the Foreign Awards Act	 is confined to questions
relating to the enforcement of the award and does	 not
comprehend a challenge to the merits and even if a question
of law decided by 669 the Arbitrators is incorrect, it is not a ground of
challenge under Section 7 of the Foreign Awards Act;	(ii)
Renusagar cannot have any grievance that they were unable to
present	 its case because it had voluntarily	 refused to
appear	before the Arbitral Tribunal when it met on October
1, 1985 and further that in the sittings of the Arbitral
Tribunal from February to March 1985 in which Renusagar	 had
participated it had made oral submissions and had	also
produced documents before the Arbitral Tribunal, with regard
to issues 22(g) to (p) and that in the sittings held	from
October	 1, 1985 onwards, the Arbitral Tribunal had dealt
with rest of the issues which related to the counter-claim
of Renusagar as well as the claim made by General Electric
against the counter-claim which claims have been rejected by
the Arbitral Tribunal; (iii) public policy, comprehended in
Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act is the public
policy of India and does not cover the public policy of	 New
York State; (iv) for the purpose of Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of
the Foreign Awards Act the expression 'public policy' has a
narrower connotation than in domestic law; (v) the regular
interest was wrongfully withheld by Renusagar because as a
result	of the failure on the part of Renusagar	 to deposit
the amount of tax with the Government of India. General
Electric was not able to claim relief under the U.S.	 tax
laws in respect of the amount payable as tax in India on the
interest and that the interim order passed by the Delhi High
Court in the	writ petition filed by	 Renusagar did	 not
preclude Renusagar from either depositing the	 tax amount
with the Government or remitting the	interest amount to
General	 Electric at the rate of 6 per cent; (vi)	 for
awarding compensatory	damages for withholding	 of regular
interest and on delinquent interest for delayed payment of
instalments the tax payable in United States on the amount
of regular interest and delinquent interest could not be
deducted since tax would be payable in the United States by
General	 Electric on the amount awarded as	compensatory
damages; (vii) the amount of compensatory damages awarded by
the Arbitral Tribunal relates to the merits of the award and
the same cannot be questioned in proceedings for enforcement
of the	 award under Section 7 of the Foreign	Awards	Act; (viii)	the challenge to the award on the basis of unjust
enrichment, award of compound interest, award of damages on
damages	 does not fall within	 the ambit of	 permissible
objections on the ground of violation of public policy in
Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act; (ix) there is
no violation of the provisions of FERA because in view of
the approval that had already been granted by the Government
of India to the original contract, there was no	 prohibition
against	 remittance of regular interest on the	 instalments
which had become due and payable and the refusal on the part
of the Government to give approval to rescheduling of	 the
payment	 of instalments did not in any way preclude	 the
Government of India from granting necessary permission	 for
remittance of the interest on the unpaid instalments under Section 9 of FERA; (x) in any event, the bar of Section 9 of
FERA is not applicable to the proceedings for	 enforcement
for the award	 in view of Section 47(3) of FERA and	 the
enforcement of the award does not involve contravention of
the provisions	 of FERA; (xi) the costs that have	been
awarded	 are reasonable and that three copies of	 the
supporting vouchers except for the vouchers relating to fees
of M/s Amarchand Mangaldas,	 a Bombay/Delhi firm	 of
Solicitors, were sent to all the three arbitrators and	that
one set of billings of M/s Amarchand Mangaldas was sent to
the Chairman but copies of the letter addressed to Chairman
were sent to the other Arbitrators and that the 670 bills of M/s Amarchand Mangaldas were in respect of fees of
Indian lawyers in Bombay High Court and Supreme Court which
claim of costs has been disallowed by the Arbitral Tribunal; (xii) the rate of exchange	for conversion	 of foreign
currency in proceedings for enforcement of a foreign award
is governed by lexfori, i.e., law of the forum in which	 the
proceedings have been instituted and not by the proper	 law
of contract or law of place of performance;	 (xiii)	 the
relevant date	for conversion of U.S. dollars	into Indian
rupees in proceedings for enforcement of a foreign award is
the date of actual payment and not the date of judgment as
held by the Division Bench of the High Court; (xiv)	 the
decision of this Court in Forasol v. O.N.G.C.4 on which	 the
reliance has been placed by the Division Bench has no
application and in any event the said decision does not	 lay
down the correct law	 and needs reconsideration;	(xv)
although under the award interest has been awarded at 8	 per
cent in respect of items 1, 3 and 5 only but in view of	 the
interim	 order	passed by this Court on	 February 21,	1990
interest at the rate of 10 per cent is payable on the entire
amount;	 (xvi)	since the permission was not	 granted to
General	 Electric by the Reserve Bank of India	to transfer
the sum of Rs 10.92 crores	deposited by Renusagar in
pursuance to the orders of this Court dated February	 21,
1990 and November 6, 1990 the said amount should be adjusted
against	 the decree that is	 ultimately passed after
converting the	 decretal amount in U.S. dollars to Indian
rupees	on the basis of the rate of exchange prevailing on
the date of the judgment of this Court. 30.Having regard to the foregoing submissions of the learned
counsel the questions that arise for consideration in these
appeals can be thus formulated: 1. Scope of enquiry	in proceedings	 for
	 recognition and enforcement of a foreign award
	 under the Foreign Awards Act 31. During the course of his submissions, Shri Venugopal
has assailed the award of the Arbitral Tribunal on grounds
touching on the merits of the said award insofar as it
relates	 to the award of compensatory	damages	 on regular
interest (item	 No. 2), delinquent interest (item No.	 3),
compensatory damages on delinquent interest (item No. 4) and
compensatory damages on the price of spare parts (item	 No. 6). This gives rise to the question whether in	 proceedings
for enforcement of a foreign award under the Foreign Awards
Act it is permissible to impeach the award on merits. 32. With regard to enforcement of foreign judgments,	 the
position at common law is that a foreign judgment which is
final and conclusive	cannot be impeached for any error
either	of fact or of law and is impeachable	 on limited
grounds, namely, the court of the foreign country did	not,
in the circumstances of case, have jurisdiction to give that
judgment in the view	 of English law; the	judgment is
vitiated by fraud on part of the party in whose favour	 the
judgment is given or fraud on the part of the	court which
pronounced the judgment; the enforcement or recognition of
the judgment would be contrary to	public	policy;	 the
proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed
to natural justice. (See : Dicey & Morris, The Conflict of
Laws, 11th Edn., Rules 42 to 46, pp. 464 to 476; Cheshire &
North,	Private	 International Law, 12th Edn.,	pp. 368 to 392.) 33. Similarly	in the	 matter of enforcement	 of foreign
arbitral awards at common law a foreign award is enforceable
if the	 award	is in	accordance with the agreement to
arbitrate which is valid by its proper law and the award is
valid and final according to the arbitration law governing
the proceedings. The	 award would not be recognised or
enforced if, under the submission agreement and the	 law
applicable thereto, the arbitrators have no justification to
make it, or it was obtained by fraud or its recognition or
enforcement would be	contrary to public policy or	 the
proceedings in which it was obtained were opposed to natural
justice	 (See:	Dicey & Morris, The Conflict of	 Laws,	11th
Edn., Rules 62-64, pp. 558 & 559 and 571 & 572; Cheshire &
North,	Private International Law, 12th Edn., pp. 446-447).
The English courts would not refuse to recognise or enforce
a foreign award merely because the arbitrators (in its view)
applied the wrong law to the dispute or misapplied the right
law. (See : Dicey & Morris, The Conflict of Laws, 11th Edn.,
Vol. II, p. 565.) 34. Under the Geneva Convention of 1927, in order to obtain
recognition or enforcement of a foreign arbitral award,	 the
requirements of clauses (a) to (e) of 672 Article	 I had to be fulfilled and in Article	11 , it	 was
prescribed that even if the conditions laid down in Article
I were fulfilled recognition and enforcement of the award
would be refused if the Court was satisfied in	 respect of
matters	 mentioned in	clauses	 (a), (b) and	 (c).	 The
principles which apply to recognition and enforcement of
foreign awards are in substance, similar to those adopted by
the English courts at common law. (See : Dicey & Morris, The
Conflict of Laws, 11th Edn., Vol. I, p. 578). It	was,
however, felt	that the Geneva Convention suffered	from
certain	 defects which hampered the speedy settlement of
disputes through arbitration. The New York Convention seeks
to remedy the said defects by providing for a much	more
simple	and effective method of obtaining recognition	 and
enforcement of foreign awards. Under the	 New	York
Convention the party against whom the award is sought to be
enforced can object to recognition and enforcement of	 the
foreign	 award on grounds set out in sub-clauses (a) to	 (e)
of clause (1) of Article V and the court can, on its	 own
motion,	 refuse	 recognition and enforcement of a foreign
award for two additional reasons set out in sub-clauses	 (a)
and (b) of clause (2) of Article V. None of the grounds	 set
out in sub-clauses (a) to (e) of clause (1) and subclauses (a) and (b) of clause (2) of Article V postulates a
challenge to the award on merits. 35. Albert Jan van den Berg in his treatise The New	York
Arbitration Convention of 1958 : Towards a Uniform Judicial
Interpretation, has expressed the view: 36. Similarly Alan Redfern and Martin Hunter
	 have said: 37. In	 our	opinion, therefore, in proceedings	 for
enforcement of a foreign award under the Foreign Awards Act,
1961, the scope of enquiry before the court in which award
is sought to be enforced is limited to grounds mentioned in Section 7 of the Act and does not enable a party to the said
proceedings to impeach the award on merits.
II. Bar to the enforcement of the award under Section
7(1)(a)(ii) of the Act 38. As	 indicated earlier, the grievance of Renusagar is
that the Arbitral Tribunal on October 1, 1985	decided	 the
preliminary objection raised by 673 Renusagar that the Arbitrators had become functus officio
and were not	entitled to proceed with the	 arbitration
proceedings on	 merits	 and that the	 Arbitral Tribunal
thereafter proceeded to deal with the merits of the claim of
General Electric without any further notice to Renusagar and
as a result Renusagar was unable to present its case before
the Arbitral Tribunal. This objection was not raised by
Renusagar either before the learned Single Judge or before
the Division Bench of the High Court.	 We have, however,
considered the same and we do not find any substance in	 it.
After the Terms of Reference had been drawn	 before	 the
Arbitral Tribunal on	February 8, 1984, the	parties	 had
appeared before the Arbitral Tribunal at Paris for hearing
which lasted for ten days between February 25 to March 8,
1985 and during the course of the said hearing Renusagar
presented typed submissions and legal authorities before the
Arbitral Tribunal. In these hearings, the Arbitral Tribunal
concluded hearing on issues 22(g) to (p) and the matter	 was
thereafter adjourned by the Arbitral Tribunal to June 10 but
on account of	 sudden	 illness of Dr	Dixit,	one of	 the
arbitrators, the matter had to be adjourned	and it	 was
ultimately fixed for October 1, 1985. On June 26, 1988, the
Chairman of the Arbitral Tribunal sent a notice to	 the
parties	 wherein it was stated that the adjourned hearing
would take place in London on Tuesday from October 1 to 4
and to continue if necessary during the following week	from
October	 7 to 11. In the said communication, it was further
stated: 39. On July 23, 1985, M/s Khaitan & Partners, on behalf of
Renusagar, sent a communication to the	 Arbitrators giving
notice	that Renusagar was abandoning and withdrawing items (ii) to (vi) and (viii) of its claim set forth in para 19(g)
of the Terms of Reference as amended by Paris hearings.	 On
August	10, 1985, M/s Khaitan & Partners, on behalf of
Renusagar, sent a communication to the Arbitrators wherein a
reference was made to the notice issued by Renusagar to	 the
effect that the ICC Arbitration Tribunal had become functus
officio	 and neither the ICC	Arbitration Tribunal could
proceed with the arbitration nor Renusagar could participate
in the same on the ground that the application submitted by
General	 Electric under Section 3 of the Foreign Awards	 Act
had been rejected by Mirzapur Civil Court and the said order
of the	 court had not yet been set aside or stayed by	 the
Allahabad High	 Court	in the revision	 petition filed by
General	 Electric. Renusagar, through their advocates	(M/s
Khaitan & Partners) also sent petition dated August 23, 1985
to the Secretary-General, ICC as well as Secretariat, ICC of
Arbitration reiterating their objection that the arbitrators
had become flinctus officio and could not proceed and/or
function. In his communication to M/s Khaitan	 & Partners
dated 674 September 2, 1985 the Chairman of the Arbitral Tribunal
intimated that	 the question as to the effect of the	suit
filed in the Mirzapur Court on the arbitration would be
considered as a preliminary issue at the scheduled meeting
on October 1, 1985. On September 23, 1985, M/s Khaitan &
Partners, on behalf of Renusagar, addressed a communication
to Mr Roberto Power in the ICC (copies of the same were sent
to the Arbitrators as well as to General Electric) wherein
it was stated: "Our plea is totally different.	 It is	that
the Arbitrators have become functus officio in the facts and
law stated by us in the 23rd August, 1985 document and	 our
telexes to the Arbitrators copies of which have been sent to
ICC. Therefore, the question of our appearing	 before	 the
Arbitrators or	 their	determining the plea raised by us
cannot	and does not arise." In the	communication dated
September 28,	1985 from M/s Khaitan	& Partners, it is
stated:	 "We have been repeatedly informing you that	 the
Arbitrators have become functus officio. Therefore, be so
kind as not to communicate with us any further regarding the
arbitration which has	 become	 infructuous."	From these
documents, it would appear that the stand of Renusagar	 was
that the Arbitrators had become functus officio and	they
could not proceed with the arbitration and	 there	was,
therefore, no	question of Renusagar appearing	 before	 the
Arbitral Tribunal on the dates fixed for hearing. In these
circumstances,	it is not open to Renusagar to say that	 the
Arbitral Tribunal, after having rejected, (by majority)	 the
said objection raised by Renusagar, by order dated October
1, 1985 should have given a further notice to Renusagar
asking	them to appear to make their submission	 before	 the
Arbitral Tribunal on the merits on issues 22(q) to 22(bb).
In this context, it may also be stated that issues 22(q) and
22(r) relate to the claim of US $ 119,053.91 for purchase
price of spare parts which is not disputed by Renusagar	 and
issue 22(s) relates to claim for compensatory damages on the
said amount which has been allowed on the same basis as	 the
claim for compensatory damages on regular interest (Item No. 2) under issue 22(k). Rest of the matters covered by issues
22(t) to 22(bb) related to counter-claims of Renusagar	 and
claims by General Electric against counter-claims which have
been disallowed by the Arbitral Tribunal. 40. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the	 enforcement
of the arbitral award is not barred by Section	 7(1)(a)(ii)
of the Foreign Awards Act on the ground that Renusagar	 was
unable to present its case before the Arbitral Tribunal.
III. Objection	 to the enforceability of the award on	 the
ground that it is contrary to the public policy of the State
of New York 41. Shri Venugopal has urged that although under sub-clause (b) of clause (2) of Article V of the New York Convention
the recognition and enforcement of an arbitral award can be
refused	 if the competent authority in	 the country where
recognition and enforcement is sought finds that	 the
recognition or enforcement of the award would be contrary to
the public policy of that country, i.e., the country where
the award is sought to be enforced, a departure has	been
made in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act which
prescribes that the foreign award may not be enforced under
the said Act if the court dealing with the case is satisfied
that the enforcement	of the award would be	contrary to
public policy.	The submission of Shri Venugopal is that in Section	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the	Act, the Parliament	 has
deliberately refrained from using the words "public policy
of India" which implies that the words "public policy"	 are
not restricted 675 to the	 public policy of India but would cover	 the public
policy	of the country whose law governs the contract or of
the country of the place of arbitration and the	 enforcement
of an	award would be refused if it is contrary to	such
public	policy.	 In this context Shri Venugopal has invited
our attention	to the provisions of Section 7(1) of	 the
Arbitration (Protocol & Convention) Act, 1937	wherein	 the
words used are "and enforcement thereof must not be contrary
to the public policy or law of India".	 According to	Shri
Venugopal while under the	1937 Act, objections	 to
enforcement are limited to the public policy of India or law
of India, there is no such limitation in Section 7(1)(b)(ii)
of the Foreign Awards Act. Shri Venugopal has also placed
reliance on	the decision	of this Court in V/0
Tractoroexport, Moscow v. Tarapore & Co.5 wherein this Court
has held that there was clear deviation from the rigid	 and
strict	rule that the courts must stay a suit	whenever an
international commercial arbitration as contemplated by	 the
Protocol and the Conventions, was to take place and that it
was open to the legislature to deviate from the terms of the
Protocol and the Convention and that it appears to	have
given only a limited effect to the provisions of the	1958
Convention. We find it difficult to accept this contention.
It cannot be held that by not using the words "public policy
of India" and	 only using the	 words	"public	 policy" in
Section	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act, Parliament
intended to deviate from the provisions of the New	York
Convention contained in Article V(2)(b) which uses the words
"public	 policy of that country" implying public policy of
the country where recognition and enforcement	 is sought.
That Parliament did not intend to deviate from the terms of
the New York Convention is borne out by the amendment which
was introduced	 in the Act by Act 47	of 1973 after	 the
decision of this Court in Tractoroexport case5 whereby Section	 3 was substituted to bring it in accord with	 the
provisions of the New York Convention.	 The Foreign Awards
Act has been	enacted	 to give effect to the New	York
Convention which seeks to remedy the defects in the Geneva
Convention of 1927 that hampered the speedy settlement of
disputes through arbitration.	The Foreign Awards Act	 is,
therefore, intended to reduce the time taken in	 recognition
and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards. The New	York
Convention seeks to achieve this objective by dispensing
with the requirement of the leave to enforce the award by
the courts where the award is made and thereby avoid	 the
problem of "double exequatue'.	It also restricts the scope
of enquiry before the court enforcing the award	 by
eliminating the requirement that the award should not be
contrary to the principles of the law of the	 country in
which it is sought to be relied upon.	Enlarging the field
of enquiry to include public policy of the courts whose	 law
governs	 the contract	or of	the country of place	 of
arbitration, would run counter to the expressed intent of
the legislation. 42. With regard to the provisions	of the Arbitration
(Protocol & Convention) Act, 1937 , it may be	stated	that Section 7(1) of the said Act, as originally enacted, read as
under: (2) A foreign award shall not be enforceable
	 under this Act if the Court dealing with	 the
	 case is satisfied that- (a) the	 award	has been annulled in	 the
	 country in which it was made, or (b) the	 party against whom it is sought to
	 enforce the award was not given notice of	 the
	 arbitration proceedings in sufficient time to
	 enable him to present his case, or was under existence	 of the conditions specified	 in
	 clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section	(1),
	 or the existence of the conditions specified
	 in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section	(2),
	 entitling	 him to contest the validity of	 the
	 award, the Court may, if it thinks fit, either
	 refuse to enforce the award or	adjourn	 the
	 hearing until after the expiration of	such
	 period as appears to	the Court to	 be
	 reasonably sufficient to enable that party to
	 take the	 necessary steps to have the award
	 annulled by the competent tribunal." 43. By Indian Independence (Adaptation of Central Acts	 and
Ordinances) Order, 1948 the words "British	India"	were
substituted by the words "the Provinces", which words	were
substituted by the words "the States" by the Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1950. By Part B States (Laws) Act, 1951,	 the
words "the States" were substituted by the word "India".
The aforesaid	amendments introduced	from time to	time
indicate that	the words "public policy" and "the law of
India"	are independent of each other and the words "public
policy"	 are not qualified by the words "of India" which
follow	the word "law" because there was no separate public
policy for each Province or State in India. This means that
even in the Protocol	 and Convention Act of 1937	 the
legislature had used the words "Public Policy" only and by
the said words it was intended to mean "the public policy of
India".	 The New York Convention has further curtailed	 the
scope of enquiry by excluding contravention of law of	 the
court in which the award is sought to be enforced as a
ground for refusing recognition and enforcement of a foreign
award.	 The words "law of India" have, therefore,	been
omitted	 in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign	Awards	Act.
It cannot, 677 therefore, be said that by using the words "Public Policy" 44. Although	the words "public policy" only are	used
without	 indicating whether they refer to public policy of
England, authors of authoritative textbooks have expressed
the view that they only mean "English public	policy". In
Russel on Arbitration, 12th Edn. at p. 384 it is stated: The same view is expressed in Dicey & Morris
	 on The Conflict of Laws, 11th Edn., Vol.	I at
	 pp. 586-7. 45. We are, therefore, of the view that	 the
	 words "public	policy"	 used	in Section
	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act refer to
	 the public policy of India and the recognition
	 and enforcement of the award of the Arbitral
	 Tribunal	cannot be questioned on	 the ground
	 that it is contrary to the public policy of
	 the State of New York. IV. Meaning of 'public	policy'	 in Section
	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Act 46. While observing that "from the	very
	 nature of things, the	expressions 'public
	 policy',	 'opposed to public	policy'	 or
	 'contrary	 to public policy' are incapable of
	 precise definition" this Court has laid down: 47. The need for applying the touchstone of
	 public policy has been thus explained by	 Sir
	 William Holdsworth: (History of English Law, Vol. III,
	 p. 55) 48. Since the doctrine of public policy is
	 somewhat open-textured and flexible, Judges
	 in England have	 shown	certain	 degree	 of
	 reluctance to invoke it in domestic	law. There are two conflicting positions which	 are
	 referred as the
	 6(1986)3SCC 156,	 217: 1986 SCC	 (L&S)	429: 49. In	 later	decisions this Court has, however, leaned
towards the broad view. [See : Murlidhar Agarwal v. State of
U.P.8 ; Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. v. Brojo	Nath
Ganguly6 at p. 373; Rattan Chand Hira Chand
v. Askar Nawaz Jung9 .] 50. In	 the field of private	 international	law, courts
refuse to apply a rule of foreign law or recognise a foreign
judgment or a foreign arbitral award if it is found that the
same is contrary to the public policy of the	 country in
which it is sought to be invoked or enforced.	The English
courts follow the following principles: (See : Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Edn.,
	 Vol. 8, para 418.) 51. A distinction is drawn while applying the said rule of
public policy between a matter governed by domestic law	 and
a matter involving conflict of laws. The application of the
doctrine of public policy in the field of conflict of	laws
is more limited than that in the domestic law and the courts
are slower to invoke public policy in	 cases	involving a
foreign element than when a purely municipal legal issue is
involved. (See : Vervaeka v. Smith10; Dicey &	Morris,	 The
Conflict of Laws, 11 th Edn., Vol. I p. 92;	 Cheshire &
North,	Private International Law, 12th Edn., pp. 128-129).
The reason for this approach is thus explained by Professor
Graveson: 52. In	Louchs	v. Standard Oil Co. of	 New
	 York' I Cordozo, J. has said: 53. The particular rule of public policy that the defendant
invokes	 may be of this overriding nature and therefore
enforceable in all actions, or it may be local in the sense
that it represents some feature of internal policy. If so
it must be confined to cases governed by the domestic	 law
and it should not be extended to a case governed by foreign
law. In order to ascertain whether the rule is allpervading
or merely local, it must be examined in the light of	 its
history, the purpose	of its adoption, the object to be
accomplished by it and the local conditions. (See : Cheshire
and North, Private International Law, 12th Edn., p. 129.) 54. The cases in which the English courts refuse to enforce
a foreign acquired right on the ground that its	 enforcement
would affront some moral principle the maintenance of which
admits	of no possible compromise, have been classified as
under: 55. As	 observed by Lord Simon of Glaisdale	"an English
Court will exercise such a	jurisdiction with extreme
reserve". (Vervaeka v. Smith10) 56. In	 Dalmia	 Dairy Industries Ltd. v. National Bank of
Pakistan12 the	 Court	of Appeal refused to	 extend	 the
doctrine of public policy to embrace the principle that	 the
English courts should refuse to enforce an award arising out
of a contract between persons who are nationals of foreign
States	which were at war with each other but each of which
was in friendly relationship with England. In	 support of
the applicability of the doctrine, it was argued that it
would be harmful to international relations of	 the United
Kingdom	 with friendly countries if it were to allow	 the
machinery of its courts to be used to enforce a judgment, or
an arbitral award in favour of a national of	one foreign
State friendly to the United Kingdom, against the national
of another foreign State, also friendly to	 the United
Kingdom, when	the two foreign States are enemies of	 one
another. Negativing the said contention, the Court of
Appeal (Megaw, L.J.) has held: 57. In	 Deutsche	 Schachtbau-und
			 Tiefbohrgesellschaft mbH v. Ras	Al Khaima
h
	 National	Oil Co.13 decided by the Court of
	 Appeal, Sir John Donaldson M.R. has said: 58. The	 approach of the American courts to
	 the doctrine of public policy in	 its
	 application to recognition and enforcement of
	 foreign arbitral	 awards under the New	York
	 Convention is reflected in the decision of the
	 US Court of Appeals in Parsons & Whittemore
	 Overseas	Co. Inc. v. Societe	Generale De
	 L'Industrie Du Papier (Rakta) and Bank of
	 America15 wherein it has been observed: 59. While dealing	with	 arbitration
	 agreements in	 international	 business
	 transactions, the U.S.	Supreme	 Court,	 has
	 disapproved a parochial refusal by the courts
	 of one country to enforce an international
	 arbitration agreement	as well as	 the
	 "parochial concept that all disputes must be
	 resolved	under our laws and in our courts". It has been observed: 60. Similarly in Mitsubishi Motors Corpn. v.
	 Soler Chrysler-Plymouth	 Inc. 17 it	 was
	 observed: 61. In France, a distinction is made between international
public	 policy	 ("order public international") and	 the
national public policy.	 Under the new French Code of Civil
Procedure , an international arbitral award can be set aside
if the recognition or execution is contrary to international
public	policy.	 In doing so it recognises the existence of
two levels of public policy the national level, which	 may
be concerned with purely domestic considerations, and	 the
international level, which is less	restrictive in	 its
approach. (See	 : Redfern and Hunter, Law and	Practice of
International Commercial Arbitration, 2nd Edn., p. 445.) 62. According	to Redfern and Hunter, "if	a workable
definition of 'international public policy' could be found,
it would be an effective way of preventing an award in an
international arbitration from being set aside	 for purely
domestic policy considerations". But in the absence of such
a definition "there are bound to be practices	 which	some
States	will regard as contrary to international public
interest and other States will not" [See : Redfern & Hunter
(supra)	 pp. 445-446.] 63.In view of	 the absence of	 a workable definition of
"international public policy" we find	 it difficult	 to
construe the	 expression "public policy"	in Article
V(2)(b)	 of the New York Convention to mean international
public	policy.	 In our opinion the said expression must be
construed to mean the doctrine of public policy as applied
by the	 courts in which the foreign award is sought to be
enforced. Consequently, the expression 'public policy' in
Section	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act means	 the
doctrine of public policy as applied by the courts in India.
This raises the question whether the narrower	 concept of
public	 policy	 as applicable	 in the field	 of public
international law should be applied or the wider concept of
public policy as applicable in the field of municipal law. 64. Keeping in view the object underlying the enactment of
the Foreign Awards Act, this Court has also	 favoured a
liberal construction of the provisions of the said Act. In Renusagar case I1 it has been observed: (SCC p. 723,	para 50)
	 "It is	obvious	 that since the Act	 is
	 calculated and designed to subserve the cause
	 of facilitating	 international	 trade	 and
	 promotion	 thereof by providing	 for speedy
	 settlement of disputes arising in such trade
	 through arbitration, any expression or phrase
	 occurring	 therein should receive, consisting
	 with its	 literal and grammatical sense, a
	 liberal construction." (p. 492) 65. This would imply that the defence of public policy
which is permissible under Section 7(1)(b)(ii) should be
construed narrowly. In this context, it would also be of
relevance to mention that under Article I(e) of the Geneva
Convention Act of 1927, it is permissible to raise objection
to the enforcement of arbitral award on the ground that	 the
recognition or enforcement of the award is contrary to	 the
public policy or to the principles of the law of the country
in which it is sought to be relied upon. To the same effect
is the	 provision in Section	 7(1) of the	Protocol &
Convention Act of 1837 which requires that the	 enforcement
of the	 foreign award must not be contrary to	 the public
policy	or the law of India. Since the	 expression "public
policy"	 covers the field not covered by the words "and	 the
law of India" which follow the said expression, 682 contravention of law	alone will not attract	the bar of
public	policy and something more than contravention of	 law
is required. 66. Article V(2)(b) of the New York Convention of 1958	 and
Section	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign	Awards	Act do	 not
postulate refusal of	recognition and enforcement of a
foreign	 award on the ground that it is contrary to the	 law
of the country of enforcement and the ground of challenge is
confined to the recognition and enforcement being contrary
to the public policy of the country in which the award is
set to be enforced. There is nothing to indicate that	 the
expression "public policy" in Article V(2)(b) of the	 New
York Convention and Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of	the Foreign
Awards	Act is not used in the same sense in which it	 was
used in Article 1(c) of the Geneva Convention of 1927	 and Section	 7(1) of the Protocol and Convention Act of 1937.
This would mean that "public policy" in Section	 7(1)(b)(ii) has been used in a narrower sense and in order to attract to
bar of	 public	 policy the enforcement of the	 award	must
invoke	something more	 than the violation of	the law of
India.	 Since	the Foreign Awards Act	 is concerned	with
recognition and enforcement of foreign awards which	 are
governed by the principles of private international law, the
expression "public policy" in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of	 the
Foreign	 Awards	 Act must necessarily be construed in	 the
sense the doctrine of public policy is applied in the field
of private international law. Applying the said criteria it
must be held that the enforcement of a foreign award would
be refused on	 the ground that it is	contrary to public
policy	if such enforcement would be contrary to	 (i)
fundamental policy of Indian law; or (ii) the interests of
India; or (iii) justice or morality. V. Is the award contrary to public policy of India? 67. Having examined the scope of public policy under
Section	 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act, we will	 now
proceed	 to consider the various grounds on the basis of
which the said provision is invoked by Renusagar to bar	 the
enforcement for the award of the Arbitral Tribunal.	 As
indicated earlier, Renusagar has invoked the said provision
on the	 ground	 that enforcement of the award would be
contrary to the public policy for the reason that	such
enforcement- (a) would involve contravention of	 the
	 provisions of FERA; (b) would amount to penalising Renusagar for
	 not disregarding the interim orders passed by
	 the Delhi High Court in	 the writ petition
	 filed by Renusagar; (c) would enable recovery of compound
	 interest on interest; (d) would result in payment of	 damages on
	 damages; (e) would result in unjust enrichment by
	 General Electric; We will examine the submissions of learned counsel under
each head separately. (a) Violation of FERA 68. As mentioned in the Preamble, FERA is a law regulating
certain	 payments, dealings	in foreign exchange	 and
securities, transactions indirectly	 affecting foreign
exchange and the import and export of currency for	 the
conservation of the foreign	exchange resources of	 the
country and the proper utilisation thereof in the interests
of the economic development of the country. It was preceded
by Foreign Exchange	 Regulation Act, 1947 . Similar
enactments 683 providing for exchange control exist in other countries. In
the United Kingdom, there is a similar enactment, viz.,
Exchange Control Act, 1947, which remains in force but	 its
operation has been suspended since 1979. The view of	 the
English courts is that the exchange control legislation does
not belong to the field of revenue laws and application of
such law is not obnoxious to English public policy. (See : 69.The following principle of Private
	 International Law is applicable in relation to
	 such legislation: 70. In the comments on the said rule, it is
	 stated: 18 1950 AC 24, 27, 36, 46-47, 57 : (1949) 2 All ER 621
19 1950 AC 57,72, 78:	 (1949) 2 All	ER 671
20 (1956) 1 Ch 323 684 (See:	 Dicey & Morris, op. cit. p. 1469.) 71. In support of this statement of law reference has	been
made to the decision of House of Lords in Boissevain v.
Weil21.	 In that case, the respondent, a British subject,
and the appellant, a Dutch subject,	 were involuntarily
resident in Monaco an enemy-occupied territory, in 1944, due
to war conditions. The respondent borrowed a sum of 960,000
French francs from the appellant in Monaco on an undertaking
to repay the money in sterling in London at an agreed	rate
of 160 francs to the pound and drew cheques in blank for the
full amount on English Bank. The appellant filed a suit in
England claiming 6000 pounds from the respondent. The	said
claim was opposed by the respondent on the ground that	 the
loans given by the appellant to the respondent were invalid
and illegal being contrary to Regulation 2(1) of the Defence
(Finance) Regulations, 1939.	 The said claim of	 the
appellant was allowed by the trial Judge, but on appeal, it
was dismissed by the Court of Appeal.	The House of Lords
agreed with the view of the Court of Appeal that Regulation
2(1) prohibited this borrowing and therefore rendered	 the
appellant's claim for repayment unmaintainable.	Lord
Radcliffe, who delivered the main speech, has observed: 72. Another interesting case is that of Wilson, Smithett &
Cope Ltd. v. Terruzzi22. In that case, the plaintiffs	were
brokers	 on the London Metal Exchange	and the defendant,
Terruzzi, was a dealer and speculator in metals who lived in
Italy.	The defendant entered into various contracts for the
sale and purchase of metals with the plaintiffs and a sum of
195,000	 pounds was payable	by the	 defendant to	 the
plaintiffs in respect of those contracts. Before entering
the said contracts, defendant had, however, not obtained
ministerial authorisation as	 required by the Italian
Exchange Control Regulations. An action was brought in	 the
English	 court	by the plaintiffs against the defendant in
which the defendant pleaded that it was unlawful for	 him
under Italian law to enter into any of the contracts which
were "exchange	 contracts" within the	meaning	 of Article
VIII, Section	2(b) of the Bretton Woods Agreement	 and
unenforceable by reason of the Bretton Woods Agreements
Order in Council, 1946.	 The said plea of the defendant	 was
rejected by the trial Judge who gave a judgment in favour of
the plaintiffs	 and the said judgment was affirmed by	 the
Court of Appeal. It appears that the judgment of	 the
English court was sought to be enforced by the plaintiffs in
Italy but the	 Italian courts	 refused to recognise	 and
enforce	 the said judgment on the view that since	 the
contracts ' were entered in	 violation of	the Italian
Exchange Control Regulations their enforcement would amount
to infringement of Italian public policy and the contracts
were unenforceable in Italy. (See : Mauro Rubino-Sammartano,
Public Policy in Transnational Relationships, p. 91.)
21 1950 AC 327: (1950) 1 All ER 728
22 (1976) 1 QB 683 :(1975) 2 All ER 649 685 73. Our attention has also been invited to a	decision of
the Supreme Court of Austria dated May 11, 1983 which is
extracted, in brief, in Yearbook of Commercial	Arbitration,
Volume X (1985) pp. 421-23. In that case, an award had been
made in favour of the appellant who	was a	national of
Holland	 against the respondent who was an Austrian whereby
the respondent	 was directed to pay to the appellant DM
667,500. The appellant sought enforcement of the award in
Austria	 and the said	 enforcement was opposed by	 the
respondent on	the ground that	 the underlying contracts,
though	nominally delivery contracts, were in reality sales
and purchases	on a margin basis and	such contracts	 are
contrary to Austrian foreign exchange law, unless specific
authorisation	therefor was	given	by the competent
authorities. The respondent invoked Article V(2)(b) of	 the
New York Convention, 1958 to oppose the recognition	 and
enforcement of	 the award. The Austrian Supreme Court
dismissed the claim of the Dutch national and held that	 the
award could not be recognised and enforced by the court in
view of Article V(2)(b) of the New York Convention and, in
that context, it was held: 74. Dr F.A. Mann has also expressed views to
	 the same effect.	He has said: "There remains
	 the question whether a foreign judgment
	 rendered	in disregard of foreign exchange
			 regulations	 operating in the country in whic
h
	 it is to be enforced, may or must be rejected
	 by the courts of the latter country as being
	 contrary	to order public. Subject to local
	 regulations the answer would seem to be in the
	 affirmative." (See: F.A. Mann, The Legal Aspect of
	 Money, 5th Edn., (1992) p. 403,note 31.) 75. As	 laid down by this Court, FERA is a statute enacted
for the "national economic interest" and the object of
various	 provisions in the said Act is to ensure that	 the
nation	does not lose foreign exchange which is very	much
essential for the economic survival of the nation. (See : 76. Keeping in view the aforesaid objects underlying	FERA
and the principles governing enforcement of exchange control
laws followed in other countries, we are of the view	that
the provisions	 contained in FERA have been	 enacted to
safeguard the economic interests of India and any violation
of the	 said provisions would be contrary to	 the public
policy	of India as envisaged in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of	 the
Act. The submissions urged by Shri Venugopal to show	that
there has been a violation of the provisions of FERA,
therefore, need examination. 23 (1986) 1 SCC 264, 314: 1985 Supp 3 SCR 909, 981
24 (1987) 1 SCC 542, 546: (1987) 1 SCR 981, 987 686 77. Shri Venugopal has made a two-fold submission in	this
regard.	 In the first place, he has urged that in awarding
delinquent interest, under item No. 3 the Arbitral Tribunal
has acted in	disregard of the provisions of FERA	 and
secondly the enforcement of the award of the Arbitral
Tribunal would	 result in violation of	 the provisions of
FERA. As regards the first submission relating to award of
delinquent interest, it may	be stated that the	said
submission involves an attack on the merits of the award
which is impermissible at the stage. of enforcement.	 We
have, however, examined this submission on merits and are of
the view that it is without substance.	 Shri Venugopal	 has
urged that under the original approval of January 2, 1964 by
the Government of India of the terms of the loan by General
Electric to Renusagar the total amount of loan was to be
repaid in 16 equal semi-annual instalments between the	30th
and the 120th month from the effective date of the contract
with specific provision for interest from the 16th to	 the
30th month to be capitalised and	the interest	 was
specifically restricted to the period from the 16th to	 the
30th month and thereafter on capitalisation from the	30th
month to the 120th month and that no interest	was payable
without FERA sanction after the due date of each instalment.
This contention is no longer open to Renusagar in view of
the earlier decision of this Court in Renusagar Case	 11,
wherein this Court has considered the question whether there
was an	 obligation to pay further interest after June	 30,
1967 till payment under the	contract. This Court	 has
referred to Articles IIIA3(c) and XIV-B of the contract	 and
has held: (SCC p. 710, paras 32 and 33)
	 "In our view these provisions which are to be
	 found in the contract clearly show that	 the
	 promissory notes are not sole and exclusive
	 repository of GEC's right to claim and receive
	 future interest on unpaid price after June 30,
	 1967 but that the contract itself provides for
	 the obligation to pay such interest after that
	 date till payment. obligation to pay future interest from	June
	 30, 1967 onwards till payment and that these
	 two claims have been preferred by GEC before
	 the Court of Arbitration of I.C.C. as arising
	 not merely 'out of' but 'under the contract'."
	 (pp. 477-478) 78. Shri Venugopal has, however, urged that	the earlier
approval to the terms of the contract was of no	 consequence
in view of the subsequent refusal by	 the Government on
August	1, 1969 to approve the	 agreement between General
Electric and Renusagar with regard to the rescheduling of
the dates of payment of instalments 1, 2, 4 and 5.	This
contention also stands concluded by the decision	 in Renusagar Case II wherein it has been observed: (SCC p. 691,
para 7)
	 "In July	 1969 Renusagar sought	the Central
	 Government's approval to the rescheduling of
	 the dates of payment as embodied	 in October
	 1968 Amendment as also in the Memorandum of
	 the Meeting held in December 1968 but by
	 letters dated August 1, 1969 and August 4,
	 1969 the Central Government declined	 to
	 approve the rescheduling of the dates of
	 payment on the ground that it would result in
	 larger outflow of foreign exchange and advised
	 Renusagar	 to effect payments as per	 the
	 original schedule including instalments which
	 had since fallen due. The result was that the
	 original	 schedule of	 payment remained
	 operative	 and there was delay on the part of
	 the Renusagar to make	payment	 of certain
	 instalments on due dates." (p. 457) 687 79. From the observations aforementioned in Renusagar Case
II it	is apparent that the original	contract postulates
payment of interest till payment and the effect of the order
of the Government of India dated August 1, 1969 was that the
original schedule of payment remained operative. Since	 the
original contract had been approved by the Government of
India it cannot be said that the award of interest	 for
delayed	 payment of instalments involved violation of	 the
provisions of FERA. 80. Shri Venugopal has submitted that in Renusagar Case I1
this Court was only required to consider the	question of
arbitrability of the disputes and was not concerned with the
merits of the claim and, therefore , the said decision cannot
be held to conclude the matter.	 We are unable to agree. It
is true that in that case this Court was considering	 the
question of arbitrability of the disputes but for	 the
purpose of deciding that issue it was necessary to consider
whether disputes arose out of or are related to the contract
and for that purpose it was necessary to construe the terms
of the contract and it cannot, therefore, be said that the
said decision does not conclude this aspect of the matter. In this context, it may also be pointed out that after	 the
decision in Renusagar Case	 I, an application	 for
clarification of the said judgment was moved by Renusagar in
this Court wherein clarification was sought in	 respect of
certain	 paragraphs in the judgment	 and in the	said
application no	 objection was raised with regard to	 the
observations quoted above. Moreover, the said	 application
was dismissed by this Court by order dated October 29, 1988. 81. As regards the second submission of Shri Venugopal that
the enforcement of the Arbitral award would constitute
violation of Section 9(1) of FERA which imposes	 prohibition
to make any payment to or for the credit of	 any person
resident outside India except in accordance with any general
or special exemption from the provisions of this sub-section
which may be granted conditionally or unconditionally by the
Reserve Bank. The submission is that in view of the earlier
order of the	Government of India dated August 1,	1969
refusing to approve rescheduling of payments	the bar of Section	 9 will operate and no order for enforcement of	 the
award can be made. The High Court in this regard has placed
reliance on the provisions of Section 47(3) of	 FERA which
provides as follows: 82. In Dhanrajamal Gobindram	 v. Shamji
	 Kalidas & Co.25 this Court has construed	 the
	 provisions of Section 21 of the Foreign
	 Exchange	Regulation Act,	 1947.	 Sub-section
	 (3) of Section 21 of the said Act was more or
	 less similar to Section 47(3) of FERA.	This
	 Court has held: 83. To the same effect is the law laid	down
	 by the House of Lords in England in Contract
	 and Trading Co. (Southern) Ltd.	v. Barbey26
	 wherein the following observations from	 the
	 judgment of Somerwell LJ in Cummings v. London
	 Bullion Co. Ltd.27 have been	quoted	with
	 approval: 84.Shri	 Venugopal has urged that Section 47(3) cannot be
applied in the present	 case	because	 it postulates a
situation where permission of the Central Government has not
been sought and that in the present case permission	 was
sought	but was refused earlier. In our view	the earlier
refusal	 by the Government to give its approval to	 the
rescheduling of payment of instalments does not in any	 way
preclude the Government of India from considering the matter
in the light of the subsequent developments and it cannot be
said that merely because the Government of India had refused
to give its	approval to rescheduling of	payment	 of
instalments it	 would not grant permission under Section
47(3) of FERA to the enforcement of the judgment that may be
passed	in these proceedings. It has also been	 urged	that
Section	 47(3)	of FERA is applicable where	 the legal
proceedings are brought in India to recover a sum
25 (1961) 3 SCR 1020: AIR 1961 SC 1285
26 1960 AC 244: (1959) 3 All ER 846
27 (1952) 1 KB 327 :(1952) 1 All ER 383 689 which is 'due', i.e., as liquidated sum presently owing	 and
the said provision would not apply to an obligation to	 pay
on a future date. We do not find any support for	this
submission from the language of Section 47(3) of	FERA
wherein the words used are "to recover any sum which, apart
from the said provisions and any such term, would be	due,
whether	 as debt, damages or otherwise". The words "would
be" which precede the word "due" indicate that the quantum
of the amount has to be fixed in the legal proceedings	 and
that it need not be a predetermined amount. Moreover in the
present case, we are concerned with the proceedings for	 the
enforcement of the award wherein the amount due has already
been determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.	 We	are,
therefore, unable to hold that the enforcement of the award
would involve violation of any of the provisions of FERA and
for that reason it would be contrary to public policy of
India so as to render the award unenforceable in view of Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Act. (b) Disregard of the orders of Delhi High Court 85. It	 is the fundamental principle of law that orders of
courts	must be complied with for any action which involves
disregard for	such orders would adversely	affect	 the
administration	of justice and would be destructive of	 the
rule of law and would be contrary to public policy.	 The
question, however, is whether the enforcement of the award
of the	 Arbitral Tribunal would involve disregard of	 any
order of a court. The submission of Shri Venugopal is	that
in the matter of withholding of payment of regular interest
Renusagar were acting in accordance with the interim orders
that were passed by Delhi High Court in the writ petition
filed by Renusagar which remained in operation from 1970 to
1980 and, therefore, the Arbitral Tribunal was in error in
awarding compensatory damages for retention by Renusagar of
the amount of income tax payable on the regular interest
during the period the writ petition was pending in the Delhi
High Court and enforcement of the award of	compensatory
damages on regular interest under item No. 2 is, therefore,
contrary to public policy. We find it difficult to accept
this contention. Renusagar had filed an application,	C.M.
No. 286-W/70,	in C.W. No. 170 of 1970 in the	 Delhi	High
Court.	Prayer (i) of C.M. No. 286-W/70 was as under: 86. On February	 24, 1970, the following
	 interim order was passed in C.M. No. 286-W/70: 87. The	 matter came before the court after
	 notice on May 18, 1970 on which date	 the
	 following order was passed: 88. From the prayer contained in C.M. 286-W and the orders
dated February 24, 1970 and May 18, 1970 passed on the	said
application, it would appear that pending the	hearing	 and
final disposal of the writ petition, there was	 an interim
injunction restraining the Union of India, the respondent in
the said writ	 petition, and its officers, servants	 and
agents from taking any steps on proceedings in	enforcement,
furtherance, pursuance or implementation or in	 any manner
giving	effect to the said orders dated September 11,	1969
whereby	 tax	exemption had	been withdrawn	 and	also
restraining from preventing Renusagar from paying tax on
interest of 6 per cent per annum to General	Electric in
accordance with the approval granted	under orders dated
September 3, 1965 and June 7, 1967.	The only condition
imposed by the Court was that Renusagar was required to give
security for Rs 4,00,000 to the satisfaction of Commissioner
of Income Tax, Lucknow within one month. These orders
would,	therefore, show that on furnishing of the	said
security Renusagar was free to remit regular interest	@ 6
per cent per annum to General Electric as per the approval
granted	 under	orders dated September 8, 1965 and June 7,
1967. The said orders of the Delhi High Court did not	also
prevent Renusagar from depositing in the Government Treasury
the income tax payable on the amount of regular interest
payable @ 6 1/2 per cent per annum. The said orders instead
of preventing Renusagar from remitting the said amount of
tax free interest in fact permitted Renusagar to make	 the
said payments to General Electric. It cannot, therefore, be
said that in retaining the said amount with itself while the
writ petition was pending in the Delhi High Court during the
period from 1970 to 1980 Renusagar was acting in accordance
with the orders passed by the Delhi High Court and	 the
payment of the said amount by Renusagar to General Electric
or depositing in the Government Treasury the income tax on
the amount of regular interest payable to General Electric
would have amounted to disregard of the said orders. In the
circumstances,	it is not possible to hold that in awarding
compensatory damages under item No.	 2 for	 wrongfully
withholding the amount of regular interest during the period
from 1970 onwards the Arbitral Tribunal has penalised
Renusagar for not disregarding the orders of the Delhi	High
Court and the	 enforcement of the said award would be
contrary to public policy of India. (c) Interest on Interest (Compound Interest) 89. This relates to award of compensatory damages under
item Nos. 2, 4 and 6. It has been urged that the award of
interest on interest (compound interest) is not	 permissible
under the law of New York as well as the law in India and is
also contrary to public policy of the State of New York as
well as the public policy of India. While construing	 the
provisions of Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act,
we have held that under the said provisions the	 enforcement
of a foreign award can be objected to only on the ground of
such enforcement being contrary to public policy of India
and that public policy of other countries e.g.	 country of
the law of contract	of the	 courts	 of the place	 of
arbitration cannot be taken into consideration. For	that
reason	an objection to the enforceability of the award of
the Arbitration Tribunal cannot be entertained on the ground
it is	contrary to the public policy of the State of	 New
York. We 691 would,	however, examine whether award of interest	 on
interest or compound interest is contrary to public policy
of India. Before we refer to the law in India in	this
regard,	 we may take note of the law in England to which
reference has been made by Shri Venugopal during the course
of his submissions. At common law in England the principle
that is applied is that laid down	 in "the reluctant
decision" of the House of Lords in London Chatham and Dover
Rly. Co. v. South Eastern Rly . Co.28 that in the absence
of any agreement or statutory provision for the payment of
interest, a court has no power to award interest, simple or
compound, by way of damages for the detention	(i.e.,	tile
late payment) of a debt. The injustice resulting from	this
rule has been sought to be removed by	 legislative
intervention. By Section 3 of the Law Reform Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act, 1934 power was conferred on the court of
record to award interest in proceedings for recovery of	 any
debt or damages where the debt remained unpaid until	 the
judgment was given. Section 3 of the 1934 Act was repealed
and replaced by Section 35-A inserted in the Supreme Court
Act 1981 by the Administration of Justice Act 1982 and power
to award interest was extended to cover a case where	 the
debt is paid late, after Proceedings for its recovery	have
begun but before they have been concluded. The power to
award interest	 does not extend to a case where a debt is
paid later but before any proceeding for its recovery	have
begun. The rule in Lo don Chatham and Dover Rly V. case 28
has been qualified by the Court of Appeal in Wadsworth v.
Lydall29 to apply only to claims for interest	 by way of
general	 damages and does not extend to claims	for special
damages. In the field of Admiralty law simple interest is
awarded, as a matter of course, on damages recovered in a
damage	action.	 In the area of equity the Chancery Courts,
differing from the common law courts, have regularly awarded
simple interest is ancillary relief in respect of equitable
remedies, such as specific Performance, recession and	 the
taking of an account and the Chancery Courts gave regularly
awarded	 interest, including not only simple interest	 but
also compound interest, when they thought that	 justice so
demanded, that	 is to say in cases where money had	been
obtained and retained by fraud or where it had been withheld
or misapplied	by a trustee or anyone else in	a fiduciary
position. See	 : President of India	v. La	Pintada	 Cia
Navegacion SA 30.) 90. In Australia, the matter has been considered by	 the
Australian High Court in the recent decision in	 Hungerfords
v. Walker31. Mason, CJ and Wilson, I., after referring to
the decisions of the House of Lords in London	Chatham	 and
Dover Rly. Co. v. South Eastern Rly . Co. 28 and President
of India v. La Pintada, Cia30) have observed: 91. It	 appears that in Canada also, the Canadian Federal
Court of Appeal has expressed the view that there is no
longer	any reason to retain the common law rule against
interest as damages and the said rule has been described as
"a judge-made limitation on the awarding of interest which
is clearly no longer seen to be good public policy". (See : 92. This would show that award of interest on	 damages or
interest on interest i.e. compound interest is not regarded
as being against public policy in these countries. 93. We may now examine the law governing award of interest
in India. Shri Venugopal has placed reliance on	 the
provisions of Section 3(3)(c) of the Interest	 Act, 1978. Section 3 empowers a court to allow interest and sub-section
(3) of	 the said section provides exceptions to the	main
provision. In clause (c) of sub-section (3) it is laid down
that nothing in this section shall empower the court to
award interest	 upon interest. Shri	Venugopal has	also
placed reliance on the decision of the Judicial Committee of
the Privy Council in	 Bengal Nagpur	Rly. Co. Ltd. v.
Ruttanji Ramji33 and the decisions of this Court in Union of
India v. West Punjab Factories Ltd.34 ; Union of India v.
Watkins	 Mayor & Co.35 ; Union of India v. A.L. Rallia Ram36 and Thawardas Pherumal v. Union of India37 . The decision of
the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Bengal Nagpur
Rly. Co. v. Ruttanji Ramji33 is based on London Chatham &
Dover Rly. Co. case28 and following the said decision , it
has been laid down that "interest for the period prior to
the date of the suit may be	 awarded, if there is an
agreement for the payment of interest at a fixed rate, or it
is payable by the usage of trade having the force of law, or
in the	 provision of any substantive	 law entitling	 the
plaintiff to recover interest". The said decision of	 the
Privy Council has been followed by this Court in Thawardas
Pherumal v. Union of India37 , Union of India v. Rallia
Ram36 , Union of India v. Watkins Mayor & Co.35 and Union of
India v. West Punjab Factories34 and it has been held	that
in the absence of any agreement, express or implied, or	 any
provision of law, it is not
32 (1987) 16 CPR (3d) 193, 201
33 AIR 1938 PC 67: 65 IA 66: (1938) 1 MLJ 640
34 (1966) 1 SCR 580: AIR 1966 SC 395
35 AIR 1966 SC 275
36 (1964) 3 SCR 164: AIR 1963 SC 1685
37 AIR 1955 SC 468 : (1955) 2 SCR 48 693 possible to award interest by way of damages.	 This would
show that there is no absolute bar on the award of interest
by way of damages and it would be permissible to do so if
there is usage or contract, express or implied, or	 any
provision of law to justify the award	 of such interest.
Merely because in Section 3(3)(c) of the Interest Act, 1978,
the court is precluded from awarding interest	on interest
does not mean	 that it is not permissible to	 award	such
interest under a contract or usage or under the statute. It
is common knowledge that provision is made for the payment
of compound interest in contracts for	 loans	advanced by
banks and financial institutions and the said contracts	 are
enforced by courts. 'Hence, it cannot be said that award of
interest on interest, i.e., compound interest,	 is against
the public policy of India. We are, therefore, unable to
accept	the contention that award of interest on interest,
i.e., compound	 interest is contrary to public policy of
India and the	 award in respect of compensatory damages
awarded under item Nos. 2, 4 and 6 cannot be enforced under Section
7(1)(b)(ii) of the Act. (d) Damages on Damages 94. This objection relates to award of compensatory damages
under item No. 4. The submission of Shri Venugopal is	that
since the contract did not provide for payment of interest
for the period subsequent to the date of maturity,	 the
delinquent interest that has been awarded under item No. 3
is in the nature of damages and the award of	compensatory
damages	 under	item No. 4 amounts to award of	 damages on
damages	 which	is impermissible and is contrary to public
policy	of India. In support	 of this submission,	Shri
Venugopal has placed reliance on the decision of this Court
in Trojan & Co. Ltd. v. Nagappa Chettiar38 wherein interest
had been allowed on damages and it was contended before this
Court that the said interest could not be allowed on damages
because it would amount to awarding damages on damages which
is opposed to precedent and principle.	 The Court rejected
the said contention and held that interest is	 allowed by
court of equity in the case of money obtained or retained by
fraud and in that case , the plaintiff had paid the money to
defendants on	account	 of fraudulent	 practices by	 the
defendants on the plaintiffs. 95. In	 the present	case , the said decision has	 no
application because the basic postulate of the contention of
Shri Venugopal	 is that the contract	 did not make	 any
provision for payment of interest for the period subsequent
to the	 date of maturity of the promissory notes. This
contention has	 been considered by us and it has	been
negatived and in view of the earlier decision of this Court
in Renusagar Case 11 we have held that the contract provided
for payment of interest for the period subsequent to	 the
date of maturity of the promissory notes till actual payment
was made. In the circumstances, it cannot be said that	 the
delinquent interest that has been awarded under item No. 3
has been awarded by	way of damages and not	 by way of
interest. Once it is held that delinquent interest awarded
under item No. 3 is by way of interest then there is no
question of damages being awarded on damages	and it	 is,
therefore, not	 necessary to go into the question whether
awarding damages on damages is contrary to public policy of
India. 38 1953 SCR 789 : AIR 1953 SC 235 : (1953) 23 Comp Cas 307 694 (e) Unjust Enrichment 96. Relying upon the	 decision of the Supreme Court of
Romania	 date(	February 16, 1985, which is extracted, in
brief, in the Year Book of Commercial Arbitration, Vol.	 XIV
(1989)	pp. 689 to 691, Shri Venugopal has submitted	that
unjust enrichment is contrary to public policy of India	 and
since the enforcement of award of the Arbitral Tribunal
would result in unjust enrichment of General	Electric it
cannot be enforced under Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign
Awards Act. This contention of Shri Venugopal has a bearing
on the	 award of delinquent interest under item No. 3, as
well as on the award of compensatory damages under item Nos.
2 and 4 and award of costs under item, No. 7. 97. In	 the case decided by the Romanian Supreme Court, a
Lebanese shipowner had agreed by a charter party with	 the
Romanian State	 enterprise to	 transport from Costantza
(Romania) to Bandar Abbas (Iran) certain goods which	 had
been sold C&F	 to an	 Iranian buyer. The	voyage	 was
interrupted at Tripoli (Lebanon) where the shipowner had its
seat. At Tripoli all merchandise disappeared, according to
the shipowner because of war, and according to the Romanian
enterprise because of a local fraudulent sale.	The dispute
was referred to arbitration and in the	 arbitration award,
the shipowner	was directed to refund to the Romanian
enterprise part of the freight it had received as well as
the value of the lost goods. The Romanian enterprise sought
enforcement of	 the arbitration award in Romania.	 The
Lebanese shipowner objected to the	request	 on various
grounds	 including the ground that it was not	 obliged to
refund the value of the goods since they had been fully paid
for by	 the Iranian buyer. It was	submitted that	 the
enforcement of	 the award was contrary to Romanian public
policy	since it resulted in	 unjust	 enrichment of	 the
Romanian enterprise inasmuch as the said enterprise	 was
allowed	 to receive for the second time the price of goods
which	had already been paid by the Iranian buyers.
Rejecting the said objection the Romanian Supreme Court held
that the arbitral award showed that the Romanian enterprise
meant to obtain repayment of the value of the cargo and	 the
freight	 on behalf of the Iranian buyer acting as agent or
trust and since the Romanian enterprise did not act on	 its
own behalf, although	it had	 no express mandate,	 the
conditions for unjust enrichment were not met in the case at
issue and, consequently, the public	policy	of Romanian
international private law had not been violated. The	said
decision has proceeded on the basis that unjust enrichment
was part of the public policy	 of Romanian international
private law but in that case it was found that there was no
violation of the said principle of public policy. 98. The principle of unjust enrichment proceeds on	 the
basis that it would be unjust to allow one person to retain
a benefit received at the expense of another	person.	 It
provides the theoretical foundation for the law governing
restitution. The principle has, however, its	 critics as
well as its supporters.	 In the words of Lord Diplock : "...
there is no general doctrine of unjust enrichment in English
law. What it	 does is to provide specific	remedies in
particular cases of what might be	classed	 as unjust
enrichment in a legal system that is based upon civil law."
(See : Orakpo v. Manson Investments Ltd.39) In The Law of
Restitution by Goff and Jones, it has, however, been stated
"that the case-law is now sufficiently mature for the courts
to recognise a generalised right of
39 1978 AC 95, 104: (1977) 3 All ER 1 695 restitution" (3rd Edn., p. 15). In Chitty, on Contracts,
26th Edn., Vol. I, p. 1313, para 2037, it has	been stated
that "the principle of unjust enrichment is not yet clearly
established in	 English law".	The learned editors have,
however, expressed the view: 40 (1955) 3 All ER 796 : 1956 AC 185 696 102.	 In Hanover Shoe v.	 United	 Shoe Machinery v
Corpn.41 the Court of Appeal had remanded the matter to	 the
District Court	 to take account of the additional taxes
Hanover	 would have paid for computation of damages, on	 the
view that since only after-tax profits can be reinvested or
distributed to shareholders, Hanover was damaged only to the
extent	of the after-tax profits that it failed to receive.
The U.S. Supreme Court reversed the said decision of	 the
Court of Appeal and held that the District Court did not err
on the question of computation.	 The Court observed: 103. Since General Electric would be liable to pay U.S.	 tax
on the	 amount of compensatory damages awarded	 under	item
Nos. 2	 and 4 of the Award, it cannot be said	 that there
would be unjust enrichment by General Electric on account of
non-deduction of U.S. tax payable on the amount of regular
interest and	 delinquent interest	 while	 assessing
compensatory damages under item Nos. 2 and 4. 104. As regards amount of delinquent interest awarded under
item No. 3, it has been submitted that since interest is not
payable	 under	the contract in respect of	the period
subsequent to the date of maturity of the promissory notes,
the award of delinquent interest for the said period would
result in unjust enrichment. This argument about liability
for such interest has already been considered by us and we
have found that under the contract interest is payable	 for
the period subsequent to the maturity	 of the promissory
notes till payment. There is, therefore, no substance in
the contention	 about unjust enrichment on this account.
With regard to the award of delinquent interest Linder	item
No. 3 and compensatory damages on the	delinquent interest
under item No. 4 it has been contended that in view of	 the
agreement between General Electric	and Renusagar	 for
rescheduling of the instalments Renusagar were not required
to pay	 the instalments as per the original schedule	and,
therefore, Renusagar could not be held liable for interest
for delayed payment of the instalments which fall due	till
August	1, 1969, and they could not also be saddled	with
compensatory damages for non-payment of instalments	that
fall due till August 1, 1969 as per the original schedule.
We have dealt with the effect of order of the Government of
India dated August 1, 1969, refusing to give its approval to
the proposed arrangement for rescheduling of	 payment of
instalments and we have held that as	 a result of	such
refusal	 the original contract regarding payment of those
instalments would revive and Renusagar were required to	 pay
the instalments in accordance with the terms of the	said
contract and were required to pay interest	for delayed
payment	 of those instalments and therefore, it cannot be
said that award of delinquent interest for the period during
which	the matter was pending consideration with	 the
Government of India, would result in unjust enrichment of
General Electric. 41 20 L Ed 2d 1231 : 392 US 481 (1968) 697 105. As	 regards item No. 7 relating to costs, the case of
Renusagar is that the costs awarded by the arbitrators	 are
excessive and	unconscionable and further that the costs
incurred in relation to the litigation in India, which	 has
been found inadmissible earlier by the Arbitral Tribunal has
been included	in the costs of arbitration that have	been
awarded resulting in unjust enrichment of General Electric.
We have considered this objection of Renusagar and we do not
feel that it can be a ground for refusal of enforcement of
award under Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act. 106. For the reasons	aforesaid, none	 of the objections
raised	by Renusagar against the enforcement of the award
under Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act for	 the
reason that such enforcement is contrary to public policy of
India merits acceptance. VI. Relevant date for conversion of	the amount awarded
front foreign currency to Indian currency 107. In	 the field of conflict of laws money serves a	two-
fold function, viz., (i) as a means of measurement; and (ii)
medium	of payment. The currency in which	 a debt is
expressed or a liability to pay damages is calculated is
called	the " money of account" or "money of contract" or
"money	of measurement" and the currency in which the	said
debt or liability is to be discharged is called the " money
of payment". The money of account is to be ascertained from
the terms of the contract construed in accordance with	 the
proper	law of	 the contract and the money of	 payment is
determined by the law of the country in which such debt or
liability is payable i.e. lex loci solutionis. (See : Dicey
& Morris, The Conflict of Laws, 11 th Edn., Vol. 2, Rules
209 and 210.) 108. Where the money of account and the money of payment are
not identical the amount of units of the currency of account
owed by the debtor must, by	an exchange operation, be
translated into the currency in which he is obliged to	pay.
This is a matter of substance and the rate of exchange	 for
such conversion is determined by the proper	law of	 the
contract or the law governing the liability. (See : Dicey &
Morris,	 The Conflict of Laws pp. 1442 and 1453.) By	this
process	 the	quantum	 of the monetary obligation	 is
determined. The questions relating	 to conversion	 of
currency often	 arise	at the stage of discharge of	 the
monetary obligation when the debtor makes the payment in a
currency other than the money of payment. Such conversion
is to be made on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing
on the date of payment at the place of payment. (See : Dicey
& Morris, The Conflict of Laws, Rule 210(2) at pp. 1453-54;
Mann: The Legal Aspect of Money, 5th Edn., p. 323.)
Conversion of the currency is also necessary in cases where
legal proceedings have to be instituted by the creditor. In
some legal systems the judgment can be given by the courts
in the	 currency of that country only and, therefore, it
becomes	 necessary to convert the monetary obligation	into
the currency of that country at the time of institution of
the legal proceedings. The exchange for such conversion
will depend on the lex fori, i.e., the law of the forum	 and
in many legal systems it is the date the cause of action
arose, i.e., the date of breach while in some systems it is
the date of judgment. In legal systems where it is
permissible to	 obtain	 a judgment in	 foreign currency
conversion would be necessary at the stage of enforcement or
execution of the judgment. Same problem would arise when a
judgment of a foreign court is sought to be enforced.	 The
relevant date for applying the 698 exchange rate for such conversion depends upon the lex	for,
i.e., the law of the forum because it is a matter relating
to the procedure. (See : Cheshire	 & North, Private
International Law, 12th Edn., p. 106.) What	 applies to
enforcement of judgments equally applies to enforcement of
arbitral awards. 109. In the instant case, there is no dispute that the money
of account as well as the money of payment is the same,
namely,	 U.S. dollar. Here, the question of convertibility
from U.S. dollars to Indian rupees arises in the context of
enforcement of the award of the Arbitral Tribunal which is
in U.S. dollars. We are, therefore, required to examine the
position under the Indian law with reference to conversion
of foreign currency into Indian currency at the stage of
enforcement of a judgment or award in foreign currency. 110.	 Prior	 to 1975, the law in England, was that an
English	 court will not give judgment for the payment of an
amount	expressed in foreign currency and the amount of	 any
foreign	 currency had	to be converted in sterling on or
before the date of judgment and the date for the purpose of
such conversion was the date when the cause of action arose.
This was the law laid down by the House of Lords in United
Railways of Havana & Regla Warehouses	 Ltd.,	Re42.	This
decision was overruled by the House of Lords (by majority)
in 1975 in Miliangos v. George Frank (Textiles) Ltd.43 In
that case, a	Swiss seller had agreed	 to supply English
buyers	with goods at a price expressed in the	contract in
Swiss francs. The goods and invoices were delivered but the
price	was not paid	and bills of	exchange drawn	 in
Switzerland and accepted by the buyers were dishonoured on
presentation. The seller brought action in England wherein
he claimed the sums due in Swiss francs. Originally he	 had
asked for conversion of Swiss francs into sterling at	 the
breach date in view of the law laid down in United Railways
of Havana, Re, case42 but subsequently in view of	 the
decision of the Court of Appeal in Schorsch Meier G.m.b.H.
v. Hennin44 the seller amended his statement of claim so as
to claim the	amount	due to him in Swiss francs as an
alternative to claiming judgment in sterling.	Bristow, J.
gave judgment	for the moneys due expressed in sterling,
holding that the rule that the English courts could express
their judgments only in sterling had not been altered either
by Parliament or by any decision of the House of Lords.	 The
Court of Appeal reversed the said decision and, following
Schorsch Meier G.m.b.H. v. Hennin44 gave judgment for	 the
seller	ordering the buyers to pay the sum due in Swiss
francs,	 or the equivalent in sterling at the time of
payment. Affirming the said decision of the Court of Appeal
and departing	from its earlier decision in	 the Havana
Railways case42 the House of Lords has held that it	 was
legitimate for the House of Lords to depart from the "breach
date conversion" rule and recognise that an English court
was entitled to give judgment for a sum of money expressed
in a foreign currency in the case of obligations of a money
character to pay foreign currency arising under a contract,
the proper law of which was that of a foreign	country	 and
where the money of account and payment is that of	that
country, or possibly of some other country but not of	 the
United	Kingdom. It was further held that the claim had to
be specifically for the
42 1961 AC 1007 : (1960) 2 All ER 332 sub nom Tomkinson v.
First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Co. 43 1976	 AC 443: (1975) 3 All	 ER 801
44 1975	 QB 416: (1975) 1 All	 ER 152 699 foreign	 currency or	its sterling equivalent and	 the
conversion shall be at the date of payment, i.e., the	date
when the courts authorise enforcement of the	judgment in
terms of sterling. The said decision was, however, confined
in its	 application to foreign money obligations and	 the
court left open for future discussion the question whether
the rule applying to money obligations should apply as
regards	 claims	 for damages for breach of contract or	 for
tort. In his dissenting opinion, Lord Simon, has reiterated
the law laid down in Havana Railways case 42. it may be of
interest to note that Lord Wilberforce, who gave the leading
speech in Miliangos case 43 had appeared in Havana Railway
case	 42 but failed to persuad the House of Lords to
accept	his contention. He, however,	succeeded 15 years
later,	in having his views accepted by the House of Lords.
Subsequently in Services Europe Atlantique Sud (Seas) of
Paris v. Stockholms Rederiaktiebolag Svea of	 Stockholm45
the House of	Lords has extended the	rule laid down in
Miliangos case	43 to claims for damages for tort and breach
of contract. The rule laid down in Miliangos case 43	 has
been held to be applicable to an action at common law on a
foreign	 judgment (See : Dicey & Morris, The	Conflict of
Laws, 11 th Edn., Vol. 2, p. 146 1.) In relation to arbitral
awards the matter had come up before the Court of Appeal in
Jugoslavenska Oceanska	 Plovidba v. Castle Investment	 Co.
InC.46	wherein it was held that an award could be made by
the arbitrators in England in terms of U.S. dollar and	that
the same could be enforced	by converting	the foreign
currency into sterling at the rate prevailing at the date of
the award. While referring	the said decision,	Lord
Wilberforce, in Miliangos case	43 has said: 45 1979 AC	 685 :	 (1979)	 1 All	 ER 421 sub	 nom
Eleftherotria (M. V.) ( Owners) v. Despina (M.	V .) (Owners)
sub nom Despina R. The
46 1974 QB 292 :(1973) 3 All ER 498
47 1927 SCR 420, 427 (Can)
48 1945 SCR 655, 658 (Can)
49 1978 DLR 3d 144
50 (1980) 102 DLR (3d) 192 700 Ford51 the Court of Appeal of Ontario affirmed the order of
the trial Judge applying the rate prevailing at the date of
the Statement of Claim on the view that in awarding judgment
on a foreign judgment the trial Judge should	be free to
adopt a date for the conversion of foreign currency	into
domestic currency which avoids injustice and which is in
step with commercial needs. 113. The federal law in the United States is
	 thus explained by Prof. F.A. Mann: (Mann:	 Legal	Aspects of Money, 5th Edn.,
	 p. 347) 114. According	to the learned author the first part of	 the
above statement is based on the decision of the U.S. Supreme
Court in Deutsche Bank Filiale Nurenberg v. Humphrey52	 and
the latter part of the statement is supported by	 the
decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in Hicks v. Guinness53. 115. Most of the States, including the State of New	York
(till recently), follow the old English rule and apply	 the
rate of exchange prevailing at the date of breach. In	 the
State of New York, however, there has been a departure in
some cases where the judgment-date rule has been applied.
(See :	 John S. Metcalf Co.	 v. Mayer54 and Sirie v.
Godfrey55.) Even in the matter of application of the breach
date rule in actions for enforcement of a foreign judgment,
the New York courts have applied the breach date rule	with
effect from the date of the judgment sought to be enforced.
In Indag v. Irridelco Corpn.56 one of the cases on which
reliance was placed by Shri	Venugopal, the	 action	 was
brought	 to enforce a judgment entered in favour of	 the
plaintiff by the courts of Switzerland and the United States
District Court in New York held that the date of entry of
Swiss judgment, rather than the date of breach of underlying
obligation, i.e., its agreement to repay certain notes,	 was
controlling as to application of breach-day conversion rule.
It was held that the date of award for damages by Cantonal
Court was the relevant date for application of breach	date
conversion rule even though that judgment was	subsequently
appealed. In taking this view, the Court relied upon	 the
decision in Competex S.A. v. Lalord57.	It appears that	 the
provisions in	this regard contained in Section 27 of	 the
Judiciary Law of the State of New York have now been amended
in 1987. Earlier Section 27 provided that all judgments or
decrees	 rendered by any court for any debt,	 damages or
costs,	all executions issued thereupon, and all accounts
arising from judicial proceedings shall be computed, as near
as may be, in U.S.
51 (1982) 137 DLR 3d 192
52 272 US 517 : 71 L Ed 383 (1926)
53 269 US 71 : 70 L Ed 168 (1925)
54 (1925) 211 NY Supp 53
55 (1921) 188 NY Supp 52
56 (1987) 658 F Supp 763
57 (1986) 783 F 2d 333 701 dollars	 and cents, rejecting	 lesser	 fractions, and no
judgment or other proceeding, shall be considered erroneous
for such means.	 Section 27 as amended reads as under: 116. As a result of this amendment, instead of	 breach-date
rule which was prevailing earlier the judgment-date rule has
been introduced. This amendment came into operation on July
20, 1987. It was introduced at the request of New	York
State Bar Association and the Erie County Bar	 Association
and it was supported by the Association of the Bar of	 the
City of New York. According to the chairman of	 the
Committee on International Trade and Transactions of the New
York State Bar Association the said amendment was necessary
because	 in view of the decision of	House of Lords in
Miliangos case	 43 " a number of transactions	which would
otherwise be governed	 by New York	law, and, involve
professional and financial advisors in New York, have	been
structured in England and covered by English law". 117. In India, the law relating to conversion	 of foreign
currency into Indian currency in the matter of	 enforcement
of judgments or awards is governed by the decision of	this
Court in Forasol case 4. That case arose out of a contract
between	 Forasol, a foreign company and the Oil and Natural
Gas Commission, a Government of India Undertaking. Certain
disputes arose between the parties which were	referred to
arbitration in	 accordance with the	arbitration clause
contained in the contract.	The said arbitration	 was
governed by the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 .	 The award
directed certain payments to be made in French	 francs	 but
did not specify the rate of exchange at which	 the French
francs were to be converted into Indian rupees.	 Proceedings
were initiated ill Delhi High Court for passing a decree in
terms of the award and a question arose as to the exchange
rate for conversion of French francs into Indian rupees.
This Court examined the question with reference to	 the
following dates: 118. The court also pointed out that in a case where a
decision has been passed by the court in terms of an award
made in a foreign currency a sixth date, namely, the date of
award also enters the competition. As there was lack of 702 authority of any Indian court, this Court has considered the
decision of English Courts including the Miliangos case43. 119. The first date, i.e., the date when the amount became
due and payable, was not accepted by the Court for	 the
reason that it cannot be said to be just, fair or equitable
because	 in a	case where the rate of	 exchange has	gone
against	 the plaintiff, the defendant escapes by paying a
lesser sum than what he was bound to and thus is the gainer
by his default while in the converse case where the rate of
exchange has gone against the defendant, the defendant would
be subject to a much greater burden than what he should
bear. The Court felt that the same criticism would apply to
the second of the dates, namely,	the date of	 the
commencement of the action or suit because suits are	 not
often disposed of for an unconscionably long time and if we
take into account the time that would be spent in appeals,
further appeals, and revision and review applications which
may be filed, the longevity of the litigation is doubled, if
not tripled, so that none can with any certainty predict
even a probable date for its termination. As	regards	 the
third date, namely, the date of the	 decree, the Court
observed that a decree crystallizes the amount	 payable by
the defendant to the plaintiff and it is the decree which
entities the judgment-creditor to recover the judgment	debt
through	 the processes of law.	Dealing with the objection
that the date of tile decree of the trial court is not final
decree for there may be appeals or other proceedings against
it in superior courts and by the time the matter is finally
determined, the rate of exchange prevailing on that date may
be nowhere near that which prevailed at the date of	 the
decree	of the	 trial	court, it was	observed that	this
difficulty is easily overcome by selecting the date when the
action is finally disposed of, in the sense that the decree
becomes	 final	and binding between the	 parties after	 all
remedies against it are exhausted. As regards	 the fourth
date, i.e., the date when the court orders execution to
issue,	it was	 felt that execution of a decree is not a
simple	matter	because	 it involves execution	of a money
decree and the judgment-debtor's property has to be attached
and pending attachment a third party, at times set up by the
judgment-debtor, may prefer a claim to the attached property
which will have to be investigated and determined by	 the
executing court and even where no claim is preferred	 the
attached property cannot be brought to sale immediately	 and
certain formalities have to be complied with and even after
the sale has taken place, the judgment debtor	may further
hold up the receipt of the sale proceeds by	the decree-
holder	by raising objection to the conduct of the sale	 and
at times, a fresh auction sale may be have to be held if the
auction-purchaser commits default in paying the balance of
the purchase price and a considerable time would thus elapse
between	 the date when the court orders execution to issue
and the date of the receipt of the sale proceeds by	 the
decree-holder.	 It was also pointed out that at times	 the
judgment debt	is not recovered in full when the attached
property is sold in execution and further application	 for
execution may	become necessary and this would lead to an
anomalous position for the Court would have to fix the	rate
of exchange, which may be different from each	 application
for execution.	A further difficulty that was pointed out by
the court was	 that execution can only issue	 for a	 sum
expressed in Indian currency and it cannot be	 for a	 sum
which would be determined and fixed by the executing court
at the	 time of granting an execution	 application.	With
regard	to the fifth date, namely, the date of payment,	 the
Court felt that there were three practical and procedural 703 difficulties namely, payment of court fees, the pecuniary
limits of the jurisdiction of courts and execution. Keeping
in view the considerations referred to above,	 this Court
declined to adopt the rule laid down in Miliangos case 43
and held that it would be fair to both the parties to	take
the date of passing the decree, i.e., the date of judgment.
The said date was also held applicable to a case where a
decree	is made in terms of an award	made in a foreign
currency. 120. The practice which ought to be followed in suits in
which a sum of money expressed in a foreign currency	 can
legitimately be claimed by the plaintiff and decreed by	 the
court, has been thus indicated: 121. Referring to arbitrations,	 this Court
	 has held that, on principle, there can be	 and
	 should be no difference between an award	made
	 by arbitrators or an umpire and a decree of a
	 court and has observed: 122. While passing the decision in terms of U.S. dollars the
learned	 Single	 Judge	has not	 considered the matter of
conversion of US dollars into Indian currency.	The Division
Bench has, however, adverted to this aspect and applying the
law laid down in Forasol case4 the decree has been passed in
terms of US dollars as well as Indian rupees on the basis of
the rupee-dollar exchange rate prevailing on the date of the
decree	passed by the learned Single Judge. The said	date
was applied for the reason, that according to the Division
Bench the letters patent appeal filed by Renusagar was	 not
maintainable. 123.	 It appears that both the parties are not satisfied
with said view of the Division Bench of the High Court in
applying the decision in Forasol case4 to the present case. 124. Shri Venugopal has urged that in Forasol	 case4	this
Court was dealing with the enforcement of an award governed
by the Indian Arbitration Act and that the principles	laid
down in the said decision cannot be applied to the present
case arising out of a foreign award which is not governed by
the provisions	 of the Indian Arbitration Act but	 is" 125. Shri Venugopal has further urged that the matter of
conversion of foreign currency and the rate of exchange	 for
such conversion is not a matter of procedure but is a matter
of substance and it is governed by the proper law and	that
since the contract as well as performance of the contract
are both governed by the New York law, the breach-date	rule
which was applicable	in the State of New York at	 the
relevant time,	 should	 be applied for the	purpose	 of
ascertaining the exchange rate for	conversion of	U.S.
dollars	 into Indian rupees and that the rule	 in Forasol
case4 can have no application to the present	case.	Shri
Venugopal has	in this regard placed reliance	 on certain
observations in Legal Aspects of Money by F.A. Mann,	 5th
Edn. at pp. 326-327 and The Conflict of Laws	by Dicey &
Morris, 11th Edn., Vol. II, p. 1454. We are unable to agree
with this submission of Shri Venugopal.	 The manner in which
the court should 706 pass the decree in a case where a foreign award is sought to
be enforced is a matter of procedure and not of substance
and is	 governed by lex fori, i.e., the law of	 the forum.
The rule laid down in Miliangos case43 has been described as
a rule of procedure. (See : Services Europe Atlantique	 Sud
(Seas)	of Paris v. Stockholms Rederiaktiebolag Svea of
Stockholms45 at p.	704; Cheshire	& North, Private
International Law, 12th Edn., p. 100). For the	same
reasons, the principles laid down in Forasol case4 must be
held to be rule of procedural law and would be applicable to
the proceedings for enforcement of a foreign award under the
Foreign Awards Act. 126. The passage from Legal Aspects of Money
			 by F.A. Mann, on which reliance has been place
d
	 by Shri Venugopal reads thus: "This situation	 involves two distinct
	 questions: which	 is the	 legal	system	that
	 determines whether there exists a right or a
	 duty to convert the money of account into	 the
	 (local) money of payment?	 Which is the legal
	 system that governs the mechanics of	 the
	 conversion (the type of the rate of exchange
	 to be employed, tile date and the place	with
	 reference	 to which the rate	is to	 be
	 ascertained)? As regards the first point it is necessary to
	 repeat that, except in unusual circumstances,
	 the creditor suffers no prejudice from payment
	 in the	moneta	loci solutionis. It	 is
	 suggested, therefore, that in general, i.e.,
	 where no problem of construction arises,	 the
	 question	of the right or duty of conversion
	 may be treated as one relating to the mode of
	 performance and, consequently, subject to	 the
	 lex loci	 solutionis. The decision on	 the
	 second point, however, is liable to encroach
	 severely upon the substance of the obligation: 127. We find that in the said passage which falls in Chapter
XI relating to "The Payment of Foreign	 Money	Obligations" 128. The entire position has been thus summed
	 up by Dr Mann: 129. Same is the position with regard to	 the
	 passage at p. 1454 of The Conflict of Laws by
	 Dicey &	Morris, 11th Edn., Vol. II, which
	 reads thus: 130.The said passage falls under Rule	 210
	 relating	to discharge of foreign currency
	 obligations which is in following terms: At the	 beginning of the comment on the said rule, it	 has
been stated: "This Rule deals with the question whether a
debtor	has, by making a payment in a given currency
discharged the debt. The effect of proceedings in English
court on a foreign currency obligation is not considered in
this rule but in Rule 21 1." (pp. 1453-54).	 This would
indicate that	the observations relied upon (at p. 1454)
which	follow	this statement	 have no bearing to	 the
proceedings in a court on 708 foreign	 currency obligations and have to be	confined to
payments by a debtor in discharge of the debt. Reconsideration of Forasol Case 131. Shri Shanti Bhushan also does not wish to go by	 the
principles laid down in Forasol case4 and has submitted that
the exchange rate for conversion of foreign	currency to
Indian	currency should be that prevailing on the date of
actual	payment and that the law laid down in Forasol case4
that the conversion should be on the basis of exchange	rate
prevailing on	the date of judgment does not lay down	 the
correct	 law and that it needs	 reconsideration. In	this
regard Shri Shanti Bhushan has urged that the purpose of the
rule relating to conversion of foreign currency into Indian
rupees at the stage of enforcement of a foreign award should
be to ensure that the amount that has been awarded under the
award in foreign currency is available in full to	 the
creditor and this can be achieved only if the exchange	rate
for the purpose of such conversion is that prevailing on the
date of payment as held by the House of Lords in Miliangos
case43.	 According to Shri Shanti Bhushan the practical	 and
procedural difficulties pointed out	by this Court	 for
rejecting the	date of, payment rule are not of	such
significance so as to render the said	 rule inapplicable.
Shri Shanti Bhushan has also relied on the following passage
from The Conflict of Laws by Dicey & Morris: 132. These observations	 have been made in
	 comment under Rule 210 and, as	pointed	 out
	 earlier, the said rule relates to payment made
	 by a debtor in discharge of the debt and	does
	 not deal	 with proceedings in	courts	 for
	 enforcement of foreign currency	 obligations
	 which have been dealt with in Rule 211, which
	 is in following terms: 133. As	 regards the submissions of Shri Shanti Bhushan
assailing the correctness of the decision in Forasol case4
it may be stated that even Miliangos case43 does not provide
for conversion on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing
on the date of actual payment and it postulates conversion
on the	 basis	of the	 date when the court	 authorises
enforcement of the judgment. The rule in Miliangos case43
has not been adopted in Section 27 of the Judiciary Act of
New York, as amended in 1987 and it provides that a judgment
or decree in	foreign currency shall	 be converted	into
currency of the United States at the rate 709 of exchange prevailing on the date of entry of the judgment
or decree. "The Legislature's concern of how this could be
effected by a sheriff' appears to be the reason for	 not
adopting the date of execution of the judgment in	 the
amended	 provision.	 The practical and	 procedural
difficulties pointed out by this Court in Forasol case 4
against	 adopting the date of payment cannot, therefore, be
ignored. As at present advised, we are not satisfied	that
the decision in Forasol case4 calls for reconsideration.
Since this is the only question raised in C.A.	 No. 379/92
filed by General Electric, the said appeal must fail.
VIII.	 Interest pendente lite and future interest 134. In	 an international commercial arbitration, like	 any
domestic arbitration, the award of interest would fall under
the following periods: 135. The interest in respect of the period covered by	item (i), namely, prior to the date of reference to	 arbitration
would be governed by the proper law of the contract and	 the
interest covered by items (ii) and (iii), i.e., during	 the
pendency of the arbitral proceedings and subsequent to	 the
award till the date of institution of the proceedings in the
court for the enforcement of the award would be governed by
the law governing the arbitral proceedings.	 These	 are
matters	 which have to be dealt with by the arbitrators in
the award and the award in relation to these matters cannot
be questioned at the stage of enforcement of the award.	 At
that stage the court is only required to deal with interest
covered	 by items (iv) and (v). The award of	interest in
respect	 of these periods would be governed by lex fori,
i.e., the law of the forum where the award is sought to be
enforced. According to Alen Redfern and Martin Hunter "once
an arbitral award is enforced in a particular country as a
judgment of a court, the arbitral post-award interest	rate
may be overtaken by the rate applicable to civil judgments."
[See : Redfern & Hunter, Law and Practice of International
Commercial Arbitration, 2nd Edn., p. 406.] 136. Moreover,	Section 4(1) of the Foreign Awards Act	lays
down that the foreign award shall, subject to the provisions
of this Act, be enforceable in India as if it were an award
made on a matter referred to arbitration in	India.	 The
provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 would, therefore,
apply in the matter of enforcement of awards subject to	 the
provisions of	the Foreign Awards Act. With regard to
interest, the following provision is made in Section 29 of
the Indian Arbitration Act: 137. Unlike Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
whereunder the Court can award interest for the period of
pendency of the suit as well as for the 710 period subsequent to the decree till realisation, Section 29 of the Arbitration Act empowers the court to award interest
from the date of decree only.	It has, however, been	held
that while passing a decree in terms of the award, the Court
can award interest for the	 period	 during	 which	 the
proceedings were pending in the Court, i.e., the period from
the date of institution of proceedings for the	 enforcement
of the award in the court till the passing of the decree in
cases arising after the Interest Act, 1978 . (See : Gujarat
Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat)
(P) Ltd. 58 138. In the instant case, the Arbitral Tribunal has awarded
interest by way of compensatory damages in respect of	 the
period	prior to the date of reference as well as for	 the
period	covered by the arbitral proceedings up to March	 31,
1986.	In respect of the period subsequent to March	 31,
1986, the Arbitral Tribunal has awarded interest only on
item No. 1 (regular interest), item	 No. 3	 (delinquent
interest) and item No. 5 (costs of spare parts) until	 the
payment. No direction with	regard	to the	 payment of
interest pendente lite, i.e., for the period the proceedings
were pending in the Bombay High Court till the date of
decree	as well as for the period subsequent to the decree,
has been given either by the learned Single Judge or by	 the
Division Bench of the High Court. Taking into consideration
the facts and circumstances of the case we are not inclined
to interfere with that part of judgment of the	 High Court
and to	 award interest for the period the proceedings	 for
enforcement of	 the award were pending in the	Bombay	High
Court and in this Court. 139. Shri Shanti Bhushan has, however, placed	reliance on
the interim order passed by this Court on February 21,	1990
whereby this Court stayed the operation of decree and order
under appeal subject	to Renusagar depositing the	 sum
equivalent to one-half of the decretal amount calculated as
on date and furnishing security to the satisfaction of	 the
High Court in respect of the balance of the decretal amount
and further directed that interest in respect of the rest of
the one-half	of the	 decretal amount which was	 not
recoverable by General Electric by virtue of the said order
would be @ 10 per cent per annum calculated from this day on
the entirety of the balance irrespective of the terms as to
the rate and mode of calculation of interest granted in or
permitted by the decree under appeal.	Shri Shanti Bhushan
has urged that in view of the said order passed by	this
Court on February 21, 1990, General Electric is entitled to
award of interest @ 10 per cent per annum on the decretal
amount after deducting the amounts deposited by Renusagar in
pursuance to the orders dated February 21, 1990 and November
6, 1990. The order dated February 21, 1990 was, in	 our
opinion, in the nature of an interlocutory order and	 the
directions contained therein were also interlocutory in
nature which are subject to the final orders that are passed
in the	 appeals. We ought, here, to take notice of	 the
developments in the international monetary exchange system
insofar	 as Indo American currencies are concerned.	 The
effect	of these changes in the exchange rates made a
landslide change in the size of the financial obligations of
Renusagar under the Award. The liability thereunder in
terms of Indian rupees virtually became double. It	 is,
however, true	 that that so	 far General Electric	 is
concerned, it secures no more than what the Award gave it in
terms of U.S. dollars. This judgment assures	 to General
Electric that quantum of U.S.
58 (1989) 1 SCC 532, 541-42: (1989) 1 SCR 318, 328 711 currency. But the area of the discretion of the court is in
the interlocutory dispensation. We are, therefore,	 not
inclined to award interest pendente lite, i.e., during	 the
pendency of the proceedings for enforcement of the award in
the High Court as well as this Court and we hereby recall
the directions	 contained in the order dated February	 21,
1990 as regards payment of interest on the balance of	 the
decretal amount. The	 award of interest for	 the period
subsequent to	the date of passing of the award till	 the
passing	 of this judgment in these appeals is, therefore,
confined to the period till the date of institution of	 the
proceedings for enforcement of the Arbitration Award in	 the
Bombay High Court i.e. up to October 15, 1986. 140. As regards future interest, we are inclined to take the
view that for the period subsequent to the date of	this
judgment Renusagar should pay interest @ 18 per cent on	 the
decretal amount that remains due after adjusting the sum of
Rs 10,69,26,590 paid by Renusagar to General	Electric in
pursuance to the directions given by this Court on February
21, 1990 and November 6, 1990 till the	payment of the	said
balance amount. IX. Adjustment	 of the sum of Rs 10,69,26,590 deposited by
Renusagar against the	 decretal amount: 141. As indicated earlier, in pursuance to the orders of
this Court dated February 21, 1990, Renusagar	deposited a
sum of Rs 9,69,26,590 on March 20, 1990 and a further amount
of Rs 1,00,00,000 was deposited by Renusagar in pursuance to
the order dated November 6, 1990 on December 3, 1990. These
amounts	 have been withdrawn	by General Electric.	 The
question is how and at what rate the said amount should be
adjusted against the decretal amount.	It is not disputed
that on the date when the said deposits were made by
Renusagar and	were withdrawn by General Electric, rupee-
dollar	exchange rate was Rs 17 per dollar.	Shri Shanti
Bhushan	 has, however,	 submitted that although General
Electric had withdrawn the amount deposited by Renusagar, it
was not able to use the same because the Reserve Bank of
India did not grant the permission to General	Electric to
remit the amount by converting the same into U.S. dollars on
account of the pendency of these appeals in this Court.	 In
this regard, Shri Shanti Bhushan has placed before us copies
of the	 letters dated	 April	30, 1990, June 25, 1990,
September 10, 1990 and November 29, 1990 of the Reserve Bank
of India. On the basis of the said letters,	Shri Shanti
Bhushan	 has submitted that out of a sum of Rs 10.69 crores
which was received by General Electric it was permitted by
the Reserve Bank of India to utilise only Rs 3.52 crores for
meeting	 administrative	 and operational expenses of	 the
Liaison	 Office	 of General Electric and the rest of	 the
amount	would be converted only after the decision in these
appeals. Shri Shanti Bhushan has, therefore, submitted that
the amounts deposited by Renusagar should be converted	from
Indian	rupees	into U.S. dollars at	 the exchange	rate
prevalent on the date of the judgment of this Court and	 not
on the basis of the rate of exchange prevalent at the	time
of the said payments by Renusagar. We are unable to agree
with this submission. The convertibility into U.S. dollars
of money paid	 by Renusagar in Indian rupees	is not	 the
condition for discharge of the decree and as laid down in Forasol	 case the decree can be discharged by	 payment in
Indian	rupees and it is for General Electric to obtain	 the
necessary permission from the Reserve Bank of India for such
conversion of Indian rupees to U.S. dollars and the transfer
thereof	 to the United States.	 If General Electric	were
finding a difficulty in such transfer on 712 account of the pendency of these appeals in this Court	they
could	have moved this Court and	obtained necessary
clarification in this regard. They did not choose to do so.
In these circumstances, the amount of Rs 10,69,26,590 which
has been paid by Renusagar in pursuance to the orders dated
February 21, 1990 and November 6, 1990 has to be converted
into U.S. dollars on the basis of the rupee-dollar exchange
rate of Rs 17.00 per dollar prevalent at the time of	such
payment	 and calculated on that basis the said amount comes
to US $ 6,289,800.00. 142. The judgment of the High Court passing a decree in
terms of the award is, therefore, affirmed.	 This would
cover the amount awarded by the Arbitral Tribunal in	U.S.
dollars and interest on amounts awarded under item Nos. 1, 3
and 5 for the period from April 1, 1986 to October 15, 1986,
the date of filing of the petition by General Electric	 for
enforcement of	 the award in the Bombay High	Court.	 The
amount	paid by Renusagar during the	 pendency of these
appeals	 will have to be adjusted against the said decretal
amount	and the present liability of Renusagar	 under	this
decision has to be determined accordingly. Calculating on
this basis the amount payable by Renusagar under the decree
in terms of U.S. dollars is: 143.In	accordance with the decision in Forasol case	the
said amount has to be converted into Indian rupees on	 the
basis of the rupee-dollar exchange rate prevailing at	 the
time of this judgment.	 As per information supplied by	 the
Reserve	 Bank of India, the Rupee-Dollar Exchange (Selling)
Rate as on October 6, 1993 was Rs 31.53 per dollar. 144.At	this stage it may be	mentioned that	 after	the
arguments were concluded and the judgment had been reserved,
an application [I.A. No. 9 of 1993 in C.A. Nos. 71 and	71-A
of 1990] was filed on behalf of Hindalco Industries Ltd. for
amendment of the cause title to substitute the applicant as
appellant in C.A. No. 71 of 1990 in place of Renusagar.	 The
said application has been moved on the ground that after the
filing	of the said appeal the Bombay High Court, by	 its
order dated April 22, 1993, has sanctioned a scheme of
amalgamation of Renusagar with Hindalco Industries Ltd.	 and
the said scheme has also been sanctioned by the Allahabad
High Court by its order dated March 26, 1993.	A true	copy
of the said scheme of amalgamation has been filed along with
the said application.	 In clause (i) of para 4 of	 the
scheme, it is stated: 145.In	view of the aforesaid provision in the scheme,	all
pending	 suits,	 appeals or other proceedings	of whatever
nature by or against the transferor company, viz., Renusagar
shall not abate or be discontinued	or in	any way be
prejudicially affected	 by reason of the transfer of	 the
undertaking of Renusagar and that the said proceedings	 may
be continued, presented and enforced by or against Renusagar
as if	the scheme had not been made. The scheme of
amalgamation does not, therefore, in any way	 affect	 the
continuance of the proceedings in the above appeals in	this
Court by Renusagar and in these circumstances, we find no
ground for substituting the name of Hindalco Industries Ltd.
as the	 appellant in place of Renusagar in C.A. No. 71 of
1990. The said application is, therefore, rejected. 146.In	the result, C.A. Nos. 71 and 71-A of 1990 and C.A.
No. 379 of 1992 are dismissed and the decree passed by	 the
High Court is affirmed with the direction that in terms of
the award an amount of US $ 12,333,355.14 is	 payable by
Renusagar to General Electric out of which a sum of US $
6,289,800.00 has already been paid by Renusagar in discharge
of the	 decretal amount and the balance amount	 payable by
Renusagar under the decree is US $ 6,043,555.14 which amount
on conversion in Indian rupees at the rupee-dollar exchange
rate of Rs 31.53 per dollar prevalent at the time of	this
judgment comes	 to Rs 19,05,53,293.56.	 Renusagar will be
liable	to pay future interest @ 18 per cent on this amount
of Rs 19,05,53,293.56 from the date of this judgment	till
payment. The parties are left to bear their own costs.