Petitioner is the husband of respondent No.2

(contesting respondent). The issue involved in this writ

petition is the custody of two minor children (Lakshmi

Prasad and Ananth Prasad) born to them, who are presently

in the custody of respondent No.2 (mother of the children).

The petition is filed seeking the writ in the nature of Habeas

Corpus, for a direction to the respondent No.2 to produce

the children before this Court. Certain further directions are

also sought for to cause return of the minor children to the

jurisdiction of High Court of Justice Family Division, UK, in

compliance with the order dated 29.02.2016 passed by the 3 High Court of Justice Family Division, UK, to enable the

minor children to go back to UK, upon her failure to do so,

the respondent No.2 be directed to handover the custody of

minor children to the petitioner to enable him to take the

minor children back to the jurisdiction of UK Court and also

to direct respondent No.2 to hand over the requisite

documents such as passport and other travel documents of

the minor children Lakshmi Prasad and Ananth Prasad,

which are in her custody, to the petitioner in order to

facilitate return of the minor children to UK. 2. The brief facts as pleaded in the petition are that

daughter Lakshmi Prasad is a permanent resident of UK and

Master Ananth Prasad is a UK citizen holding a British

Passport; both the children have been illegally and

unlawfully removed by respondent No.2 from UK; petitioner

is the husband of respondent No.2 and a UK Citizen holding

a British Passport. Respondent No.2, being the wife of the

petitioner and the mother of the said children, has been

residing in UK since September, 2007 till 25/12/2015. The 4 Petitioner was born in India and after the marriage,

petitioner and respondent No.2 have gone and stayed in UK

since September, 2007; the couple intended to live

permanently in UK. Petitioner was granted permanent

residency of UK on 12th December, 2013. The Petitioner

after relocating in UK in September, 2007, joined the

respondent No.2, who came to UK on a work permit at

Wipro from 15/09/2007. The petitioner and respondent No.2

had visa valid from 13/09/2007 till 13/12/2008. Respondent

No.2 worked for Wipro in UK till November, 2008, whereas

the petitioner worked for Giant Group PLC in UK till

February, 2011 and changed the company later.

Respondent No.2 had to go back to India to change visa

status as the Wipro company in UK did not extend her visa.

However, in the meantime the petitioner's status was

changed to Tier-I visa, which was valid from 14/05/2008 till

14/05/2011 and thereafter respondent No.2 joined the

petitioner on dependent visa on 04/03/2009. The parties

were blessed with a daughter namely Lakshmi Prasad on

19th August 2010 and the minor daughter came to UK as a 5 dependent on 16/01/2011; both the petitioner and

Respondent No.2 stayed in UK along with the minor

daughter and the petitioner, in the meantime, became a

permanent resident of UK on 12th December, 2013 i.e. got

indefinite leave to remain in UK. Similarly, the minor

daughter namely Lakshmi Prasad also became a permanent

resident of UK On 22/02/2015 i.e. the minor daughter got

indefinite leave to remain in UK on that day. The couple

were blessed with a minor son Ananth Prasad, who was born

in UK On 26/01/2015 and the minor son became a citizen of

UK by birth and got British Passport of UK on 24/03/2015. 3. The petitioner and respondent No.2 along with

minor children were habitual residents of UK and have been

staying in the UK since September, 2007. Respondent No.2

started a company namely K2 Consulting Ventures in March

2014 and worked as a Director, whereas the petitioner

worked as a Secretary. On 29/12/2015 respondent No.2

became the Secretary of the Company, whereas the

petitioner was made the Director of the Company. In the 6 meantime, the minor daughter Lakshmi Prasad, from

September, 2012 till March 2014, was admitted with

Cippenham Baptist Play Group, 11, Elmshott Lane Slough SL

15QS. Again from April 2014 till August 2014, the minor

daughter was admitted with Asquith Nursery, 1 Eelbrook

Avenue, Bradwell Common, Milton Keynes MK 13 8RD. Again

from September, 2014 to December, 2015 the minor

daughter was admitted in Summerfield School, Downley

Avenue, Bradwell Common, Milton Keynes MK 13 8PG.

Petitioner, Respondent No.2 and minor children were staying

in UK as a family unit. However, it was decided that the

parties along with minor children shall take a trip to India to

visit their relatives in December, 2015 and the trip was

planned from 24th December 2015 with a return date of 19th

January, 2016. Upon landing in Bengaluru airport on 25 December,

2015, the Petitioner collected their luggage and respondent

No.2 took care of the children. It was around 9.40 p.m.,

when the petitioner was pushing the luggage trolley

containing the luggage, the respondent No.2 unexpectedly 7 ran to his left taking the children with her. At the same time,

the petitioner noticed that respondent No.2's brother-in-law

Shreyas, her sister Lakshmi Shreys, respondent No.2's

mother Padmavathy and her father Srinivas Rangan, who

ran in her direction, took the children and ran away with the

children. The petitioner tried to follow them but his path was

blocked by respondent No.2's brother-in-law's father

Sridhar and four unidentified persons. One of the persons

identified himself as a worker in a Police Station and told the

petitioner that he was there because a lady had sent an

email. In the meantime, respondent No.2 and her

accomplices escaped with the two minor children. Despite

the petitioner's attempts, the petitioner could not follow

them as his route was being purposely blocked. The

petitioner then lost sight of respondent No.2 and the minor

children. The parents of the petitioner, who had come to

welcome them, were stranded by the people, who had

blocked the path while respondent No.2 and her accomplices

disappeared with the minor children. 4. On 26th December 2015 the petitioner went to

the Police Station with his parents. Respondent No.2 came

with her brother-in-law Shreyas, his father Sridhar and her

father Srinivas Rangan to lodge a complaint against the

petitioner. The petitioner did not know the full details of

respondent No.2's statement, which she made in support of

her complaint; however he came to know later that

respondent No.2 and her family were trying to malign the

petitioner. The petitioner had retained the passport of

respondent No.2 and the minor children, but, when

respondent No.2 demanded the petitioner to hand over the

passports, the Police suggested that the petitioner should

hand over respondent No.2's passport. Petitioner made

number of attempts to communicate with respondent No.2

to discuss her actions but respondent No.2 switched off her

phone. 5. The petitioner was advised to return to England

to commence proceedings in the High Court with the hope

that an Order would be made for children's return to the 9 home of their habitual residence which is England. So, the

petitioner returned to United Kingdom on 13 January, 2016

and made nine attempts to establish contact with

respondent No.2 between 15th and 17th January, 2016. The

petitioner managed to establish telephonic contact with

respondent No.2's father and the petitioner told him that the

petitioner would like to get in touch with respondent No.2.

Respondent No.2's father said that in half an hour he would

ask respondent No.2 to ring up to the petitioner, but that

never happened. Later the phone was switched off and the

petitioner was unable to communicate at all. The petitioner

sent an email to respondent No.2 on 16th January 2016

describing what had happened at the airport and at the

Police Station and reminded respondent No.2 that

respondent No.2 was due to return to the United Kingdom

on 19th January 2016 with the children but received a

response that respondent No.2 did not want to have any

communication with the petitioner. In spite of various efforts

undertaken by the petitioner's father, the Respondent No.2

refused to take back the minor children to the jurisdiction of 10 England and Wales. Since respondent No.2 refused to bring

the minor children back to the jurisdiction of England and

Wales, the petitioner was left with no option but to file a

petition before the High Court of Justice, Family Division,

London on 19th Feb 2016 for obtaining a Wardship order and

also sought the relief that the minor children should be

brought back to the jurisdiction of England and Wales. The

High Court of Justice, Family Division, UK vide order dated

29/2/2016 noted that the minor children were wrongfully

removed from England since December, 2015 and have

been wrongfully retained outside the jurisdiction of UK. The

UK Court directed that the minor children shall remain as

wards of the UK Court during their minority or until further

Orders. It was also observed by the UK Court that the

Courts at England and Wales have the exclusive jurisdiction

in the matter of parental responsibility over the children

(being habitual resident of England and Wales) and further

directed that respondent No.2 shall cause the return of the

minor children to England and Wales forthwith. The said

order dated 29/2/2016 passed by the UK Court has been 11 served personally upon respondent No.2 and in spite of the

service of the said order dated 29/2/2016, respondent No.2

has not complied with the same and has not caused the

return of minor children to the jurisdiction of UK. 6. After passing of the Wardship order by the UK

Court and after service of the same on respondent No.2, the

lawyer on behalf of respondent No.2 sent a notice dated

11.03.2016 addressed to the petitioner on his email

acknowledging the factum of the receipt of the Wardship

order. In this email, reference was also made to the petition

filed by the petitioner under Section 9 seeking restitution of

conjugal rights filed in Mysuru, which petition is being

withdrawn by the petitioner as the same was filed on the

basis of wrong advice in as much as only the UK Court has

the jurisdiction to pass orders regarding the marriage and

custody of the minor children. Admittedly, the minor

children are habitual residents of UK, and the minor son a

UK citizen and minor daughter a permanent resident of UK

and have been unlawfully retained by the respondent No.2 12 in India. Hence, the petitioner filed the present petition

seeking the direction as mentioned above. 7. Respondent No.2 has filed her statement of

objections, wherein it is contended that the allegations in

paragraph Nos.1 and 2 of the writ petition are admitted

subject to a clarification that, the minor daughter Lakshmi

Prasad is not a permanent resident of UK, she only holds an

ILR (Indefinite Leave to Remain) card which does not confer

on her any status as a permanent resident of UK. The

allegation that both the children have been illegally and

unlawfully removed by this respondent in UK is a false,

fanciful and self serving statement of the petitioner. The

petitioner is learnt to have secured a British Passport only

on 9th February 2016. The allegation that the respondent

No.2 has been residing in the UK since September 2007 till

25th December 2016 is false and incorrect. Respondent No.2

has furnished the details of her stay in India, which is at

page No.2 of the objection statement. The allegation that

the couple intended to live permanently in UK is absolutely 13 false and untenable. The allegations made in paragraph

No.4 clearly indicates that both the parties neither had a

desire nor a possibility of either of them or together settling

in UK. The daughter Lakshmi Prasad was born on the 19th

August 2010 in India. At that time, respondent No.2 had

stayed in India for a period between November 2009 and

16th January 2011. She holds only an Indian Passport. The

allegation that the petitioner and respondent No.2 along

with the minor children were habitual residents of UK and

have been staying in UK since September 2007 is false and

incorrect. The allegations at paragraph No.9 of the petition about

respondent No.2's sister Lakshmi, her husband Shreyas, his

father Sridhar are all false. The allegation that the

petitioner's path was blocked by anyone or four unidentified

people is false. The allegation about an enquiry of the

petitioner by a local Police is not known to respondent No.2.

The allegation that the petitioner could not follow

respondent No.2, the children and the parents of respondent

No.2 as his route was blocked is entirely false and 14 untenable. Similar allegation that the path of the

petitioner's parents was blocked is also untrue. The details

of the event that occurred in the airport are that - the

respondent No.2 had by chance heard from the petitioner's

mobile phone, a conversation that he had with his father. In

that, the petitioner's father had informed the petitioner that

there was an action intended to cause harm to respondent

No.2 and her family as planned. The message had caused

anxiety in the mind of respondent No.2; apart from that, at

the airport, the children soon after they saw their maternal

grand parents naturally ran towards them and hugged them.

Respondent No.2 felt that it was advisable for her to stay a

while with her parents, so, she informed the petitioner and

his parents of her desire to follow her parents and that was

how the parties separated peacefully from the airport.

Respondent No.2 requested the petitioner to hand over to

her, the passports of herself and the children and her

luggage. Unfortunately, the petitioner did not oblige, he

carried away the entire luggage of respondent No.2 and has

also refused to either deliver the luggage or the passport. 15 Respondent No.2 was in need of her luggage as it contained

all the articles for day to day use. Unwillingly, she had to

give a call to the Police. They intervened. The petitioner

gave the respondent No.2 only a part of the luggage and her

passport. The allegation in the petition that respondent

No.2 and her family were trying to malign the petitioner is

absolutely untrue. The allegation that the petitioner made

number of attempts to communicate with respondent No.2

and the respondent No.2 had turned off her mobile phone is

false and untenable. The petitioner suddenly returned to

England to commence proceedings in the High Court there.

He has deliberately withheld the most important information

before U.K. Court that he voluntarily initiated in Mysuru,

India seeking "Restitution of Conjugal Rights". On

05.01.2016, he has filed a petition in M.C.No.24/2016 on

the file of Family Court, Mysuru and has sought a relief of

restitution of conjugal rights. The separation between the

parties has given a cause of action to initiate that

proceeding. The attempt of the petitioner to initiate a

proceeding for a Wardship order in England is clearly an 16 afterthought. A phone call to respondent No.2's father was

received and it was not later replied is because of

communication that the petitioner got issued through his

attorneys holding out a threat of emergency Court

proceedings against respondent No.2. In the said

communication, there was a request to respondent No.2 to

return to UK on 19.01.2016 with children. The petitioner

was fully aware of the respondent's address. The allegation

that the petitioner made various efforts to take back the

minor children to the jurisdiction of England and Wales is

absolutely false and untenable. The allegation in the petition

that the retention of minor children by respondent No.2 in

India shall result in adverse consequences to their overall

development and well being is absolutely false and

untenable. The allegation that an alien and hostile

environment would likely to result in imminent and long

lasting mental and psychological harm and trauma to minor

children, is an unwarranted and illogical expression of

apprehension by the petitioner. On the other hand, the

children will be back into the Indian National environment of 17 happy living with encouragement for the development of

their natural instincts. So far as the children are concerned

it is UK that has received them to a totally hostile and

disadvantageous environment. It is not wished that the

children will be permanently absorbed in the UK that too

into an absolutely inconvenient environment all opposed to

the hoary tradition of India and its culture. The petitioner's

filing a petition for the Wardship order in the Court in UK on

19th February 2016 is not only a long delayed afterthought,

but also intended to make that Hon'ble Court to entertain an

apprehension that there was anything between parties other

than a simple matrimonial dispute. In that situation, he has

made the High Court of Justice, Family Division, UK, believe

that respondent No.2 is either absconding or has

deliberately removed the children from UK with a motive to

leave UK. The petitioner has misrepresented to the Hon'ble

Court that he did not know the respondent's whereabouts

and he had also misrepresented to the Hon'ble Court that

the children were wrongfully retained outside the jurisdiction

of UK. Looking into the order passed by the High Court of 18 Justice, Family Division, UK, it is clear that the petitioner has

deliberately played fraud on the High Court of Justice,

Family Division, UK, by misrepresenting about the

whereabouts of the respondent and the normal separation

due to matrimonial disputes. The fraud, petitioner played on

the Court has resulted in respondent No.2 to remain

absolutely in the dark about the proceedings he had initiated

and were taken in the High Court of Justice, Family Division,

UK. The petitioner has deliberately withheld the disclosure

of another event by which he put respondent No.2 in total

confusion of the happenings at his end. Suddenly,

respondent No.2 received through post from Mysuru sent by

the petitioner a communication, which contained a

purported order of the High Court of Justice, Family Division,

UK. Respondent No.2 was surprised by this intimation from

the petitioner himself. There was no communication to

respondent No.2 from either Hon'ble Court or any other

Authorised person. The order did not bear any case

number. It did not bear any seal or signature of either the 19 Court or the Hon'ble Judge. It had not been dispatched from

the Court itself. No notice antecedent to the said order had

been received by respondent No.2. To have a doubt cleared

on behalf of the respondent No.2, a letter was addressed to

the applicant's solicitors as mentioned in the order.

Unfortunately, there was no response from the petitioner or

the attorneys answering any of the doubts raised on behalf

of respondent No.2. Suddenly, however, respondent No.2

received a phone call followed by a communication through

e-mail. There was no attempt to explain any of the

inaccuracies in the order raised on behalf of respondent

No.2. On the other hand, through an email, a copy of the

order was dispatched by the attorneys of the petitioner. The

Respondent No.2 was exposed to the same doubt because

the copy now forwarded to respondent No.2 suddenly

referred to a case number and a seal in the last page of the

order. The date of the order was 29.02.2016, but the seal

on the order was 03.03.2016. Why and how the High Court

of Justice, Family Division, UK had dispensed without any

communication to respondent No.2 on its own, or any 20 information authorizing the attorneys of the petitioner to

communicate its order remained as doubtful as ever. To

have a clarification of the same, letter was addressed to

attorneys of the petitioner seeking clarification. The

genuineness of the proceedings itself was doubtful. Thus,

at all stages, respondent No.2 has been deprived of

necessary knowledge, notice or an opportunity to raise her

objections to the proceedings before the High Court of

Justice, Family Division, UK. Hence, the order of High Court

of Justice, Family Division, UK, relied upon by the petitioner

for implementation is void. 8. Petitioner and respondent No.2 were separated at

Bengaluru on 25.12.2015. The petitioner fully realized that

this separation, according to him, was the result of a

matrimonial violation by respondent No.2. Very

thoughtfully, he initiated a proceeding seeking restitution of

conjugal rights. Thus, on his own, showing the dispute

between respondent No.2 and himself was one that was

susceptible of being settled by a proceeding in India. 21 Petitioner has filed M.C.Case No.24/2016 before the Family

Court, Mysuru on 05.01.2016 wherein he has sought

restoration of conjugal rights and for a direction to

respondent to come to the matrimonial home with the

children. The implication of the prayer is that the petitioner

sought custody/company of the children. The said matter is

suppressed before this Court. In M.C.No.24/2016, petitioner

has categorically stated that he is a resident of Mysuru,

which is again suppressed before this Court. In this petition

he has given his address as England. Only, after about 40

days after filing of the M.C.No.24/2016, the petitioner had

filed a case before the High Court of Family Division, U.K.

and obtained an exparte order to return the children to

England. His attempt to seek such a relief in the Court at

UK, while pursuing the pendency of the proceeding in India,

is a bar on the jurisdiction of the Court at UK. In the said

proceeding in England, he completely suppressed the fact

that he filed MC case No.24/2016, wherein he has virtually

sought for the custody/company of the children. Petitioner

has also virtually suppressed the case MC No.24/2016 from 22 this Court, wherein almost similar relief has been sought by

the petitioner. While both the Courts have jurisdiction to

entertain a grievance by a party, the initiation of a

proceeding in one Court estops the applicant to

simultaneously invoke the jurisdiction of another Court. The

proceeding in the Court at UK is therefore without

jurisdiction and MC case No.24/2016 filed by the petitioner

bars the filing of this petition also. The petitioner has played

fraud not only on the High Court of Justice, Family Division,

UK, but also on respondent No.2. From the facts as pleaded

in the objection statement by respondent No.2, it is clear

that petitioner himself did not provide an opportunity for the

High Court of Justice, Family Division, UK, to consider the

welfare of the children. The petitioner had not invoked the

jurisdiction of the High Court of Justice, Family Division, UK,

for the relief of any matrimonial dispute of the parties. On

the other hand, he gave a conscious, deliberate and

fraudulent impression to the High Court of Justice, Family

Division, UK, that the issue involved was allegedly abduction 23 of the children. Therefore, the said Court had no occasion to

consider the welfare of the children at all. 9. The proceeding initiated by the petitioner in the

Family court at Mysuru seeking restitution of conjugal rights

was before the most appropriate forum to take up the

matter of the welfare of the children also. The petitioner's

haste of withdrawing petition is an indication of his attempt

to deprive respondent No.2 of an opportunity to raise the

question of the welfare of the children. Being convinced that

it is only an enquiry into the welfare of the children that

would find a solution to the problem between the parties,

respondent No.2 has filed a petition in Family Court,

Bengaluru (G & W 85/2016) for appropriate reliefs.

Respondent No.2 has her own financial support to provide

for the life and education of two minor children. Respondent

No.2's parents have also come forward to provide financial

support to the minor children. They have an independent

convenient house, large enough to accommodate

respondent No.2 and her children. They are ready and 24 willing to absorb respondent No.2 and two minor children

into their fold and to provide love, shelter and means of

subsistence. The children will also be graced with a

companionship of family of mother and grandparents. There

are also innumerable number of relatives and well-wishers

at Bengaluru to rush to the support of respondent No.2 at

any time of distress or inconvenience. It will be highly

advantageous for the coming up of the children in such a

family environment. The attitude of the petitioner and the

members of his family are entirely different. The petitioner's

mother filed a false complaint before the Police at Mysuru

charging several offences against respondent No.2's sister,

her husband and his father. They were compelled to obtain

an anticipatory bail. The petitioner is all alone in London. It

will be extremely impossible for him to personally undertake

any job of maintaining the two minor children or provide

necessary education. The children will also be deprived of a

family association entirely and exclusively in his own

company. At UK, the petitioner cannot have any chance of

getting the advantage of any family associations or the 25 company of any relatives. The children will have to live

totally in exclusion, which is harmful to their welfare. 10. Petitioner and the respondent are Hindus, hailing

from highly orthodox family. Respondent No.2 as well as

the petitioner went to England for the purpose of

employment and never with an intention to stay there

permanently. It was their intention always to work in

England for sometime and return to India, which is their

mother country. They have no relatives in England. They

never got assimilated to the ways of life and social values

prevalent in England nor have the children assimilated with

the English culture. The children have been brought up in a

manner conducive to Indian culture and ethos. The children

have been looked after, cared for only by respondent No.2

and not by the petitioner. The daughter Kumari Lakshmi

Prasad is aged nearly six years and in a matter of another

two years she will reach puberty during which period she

requires care and counseling of the mother alone. The son

Master Ananth Prasad is hardly an year old and continues to 26 be suckled by respondent No.2. He is of an age where the

care of the mother is absolutely essential. The English Court

is an inconvenient forum for respondent No.2. If she were

to go to England and fight the litigation, she would be all

alone and helpless since her family is in Bengaluru and she

has no relatives there. Respondent No.2 has been totally

and thoroughly harassed by the petitioner in various ways,

physically, mentally and emotionally. There have been

instances where the petitioner has threatened to commit

suicide unless the respondent No.2 agrees to cede majority

share in the company, which was actually started by her.

He has been harassing respondent No.2 for dowry. Hence,

respondent No.2 sought to reject the petition filed by the

petitioner. 11. We have heard the arguments of the learned

counsel appearing for the petitioner-husband and also the

learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of respondent

No.2-wife, so also, the learned Government Advocate

appearing on behalf of respondent No.1. 12. Learned counsel appearing for petitioner-husband

during the course of his arguments submitted that after

their marriage on 7.2.2007, petitioner and respondent No.2

have gone to U.K. during September 2007 itself with an

intention to settle in U.K. permanently. Petitioner was

granted permanent residency of U.K. on 12.12.2013;

couple are having two minor children, girl child by name

Lakshmi Prasad, born on 19.8.2010 and a son by name

Anantha Prasad born on 26.1.2015. Daughter Lakshmi

Prasad is a permanent resident of U.K. and master Anantha

Prasad is a U.K. citizen holding British passport; both the

children have been illegally and unlawfully removed by

respondent No.2 from U.K. By the present petition

petitioner is seeking repatriation of the children to U.K. in

compliance of the order dated 29.2.2016 passed by the High

Court of Justice, Family Division, U.K. It is the submission

of the learned counsel for the petitioner that from

September 2007 till December 2015 petitioner and

respondent No.2 along with their minor children born later

on were staying in U.K. as a family unit. Since it was 28 decided by the couple to take a trip to India along with their

children to visit their relatives in December 2015, trip was

planned from 24.12.2015 with a return journey on

19.1.2016. It is submitted that petitioner and respondent

No.2 along with the children came to India and reached the

Bengaluru Airport on 25.12.2015, petitioner collected their

luggage and respondent No.2 took back the children; around

9.40 p.m. when the petitioner was pushing the luggage

trolley, respondent No.2 unexpectedly ran to his left taking

the children with her. At the same time, petitioner noticed

that respondent No.2's brother-in-law Shreyas, her sister

Lakshmi Shreyas, respondent Nos.2's mother Padmavathi

and her father Srinivas Rangan ran in her direction and took

the children with them and ran away. Though petitioner

tried to follow them, but his path was blocked by respondent

Nos.2's brother-in-law's father Sridhar and four unidentified

persons. Learned counsel for the petitioner further

submitted that though the petitioner tried to contact the

respondent No.2-wife to discuss with her as to why she has

done so and with an intention to take his wife and children 29 to U.K., his efforts were in vain as respondent No.2 failed to

contact him over phone. Under these circumstances,

petitioner was advised to return to England to commence

the proceedings in the High Court of Justice with a hope that

an order would be passed for his children's return to their

habitual residence, which is England. After returning to

U.K., petitioner presented the petition before the High Court

of Justice, Family Division, U.K. on 19.2.2016 for obtaining

wardship order and also sought the relief that the minor

children should be brought back to the jurisdiction of

England and Wales. The High Court of Justice, Family

Division, U.K. passed the order on 29.2.2016 to the effect

that minor children were wrongfully removed from England

since December 2015 and have been wrongfully retained

outside the jurisdiction of U.K. and the said order passed by

the High Court of Justice, Family Division, U.K. though was

served on respondent No.2, she has not respected the Court

order and refused to bring the children to the jurisdiction of

the U.K. Court. Learned counsel submitted that Master

Ananth Prasad was born in England and even daughter 30 Lakshmi Prasad has also become the permanent resident of

U.K. The documents produced by the petitioner clearly

shows that they are the habitual permanent residents of

England and so far as the children are concerned it is the

U.K. Court which is having the jurisdiction to pass orders for

wardship of the children and not the Courts in India.

Learned counsel further made the submission that the

daughter of the petitioner and respondent No.2 was

admitted to the schools in U.K. and she was comfortably

prosecuting her studies and if the children are not

immediately brought back to the jurisdiction of the U.K.

Court, then their education career will be affected seriously.

It is further submitted that even the petitioner is ready to

take back respondent No.2 if she is willing to come and

reside with the petitioner at U.K. Learned counsel submitted

that when an order has been passed by the High Court of

Justice, Family Division, U.K., the same has to be respected

on the principle of Comity of Courts order. In this

connection, learned counsel has also relied upon the recent

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in (2015) 5 31 SCC 450 in the case of SURYA VADANAN Vs. STATE OF

TAMIL NADU AND OTHERS and also many other decisions in

support of his contention. It is further submitted that the children have been

retained by respondent No.2 illegally against the order of

the High Court of Justice, Family Division, U.K. That in the

recent decision reported in (2015) 5 SCC 450, all the earlier

decisions were considered and ultimately, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has laid down the proposition. Accordingly,

he has referred to the relevant paragragh Nos.12, 17, 19,

31, 34.7, 45.3, 46, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 56, 60, 62, 64,

65 and 67 of the said decision . It is submitted that even

financially also petitioner is stable and able to provide good

future for the education and that respondent No.2 wife is not

capable of managing the children in prosecuting their

studies. The children are having more comfortable

atmosphere for their studies in U.K. rather than in

Bengaluru. In spite of the Court passing the order and giving

such direction, respondent No.2 has failed to bring back the

children to the jurisdiction of the U.K.Court. Hence, the 32 petitioner-husband was constrained to present this petition

of Habeas Corpus seeking the order and direction as against

respondent No.2 to produce the children before this Court to

cause return of the minor children to the jurisdiction of the

High Court of Justice, Family division, U.K., so also, to direct

respondent No.2 wife to hand over the requisite documents

such as passport and other travel documents of the minor

children Lakshmi Prasad and Ananth Prasad, which are in

her custody, in order to facilitate the petitioner for return of

the minor children to U.K. Accordingly, submitted to allow

the petition. 13. Per-contra, learned senior advocate Sri.Udaya

Holla appearing for respondent No.2 during the course of his

arguments submitted that the petitioner has made false

averments in his petition and the factual story narrated by

the petitioner in the petition is far from truth. He has

submitted that the allegation that respondent No.2 illegally

and unlawfully removed the children from U.K. is patently

false and a baseless allegation. That admittedly, even 33 according to the petitioner, it is his case that petitioner,

respondent No.2 and their children came to India in

December 2015 to have a trip. As such, the question of

respondent No.2 illegally and unlawfully removing the

children from the jurisdiction of the U.K. Court does not

arise at all. Respondent No.2 suffered both physical and

mental harassment at the hands of the petitioner-husband

when she was staying with him in U.K. and the children are

also having affection towards their grand father and other

family members of respondent No.2 at Bengaluru and they

are more attached to the family atmosphere at Bengaluru.

They themselves are not ready to go to U.K. Learned senior

counsel submitted that the petitioner-husband has filed the

petition before the Family Court at Mysuru in

M.C.No.24/2016 under Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act

seeking restitution of conjugal rights and for a direction from

the Court that respondent No.2 should came back to her

matrimonial house with children and for such other reliefs,

which is produced as per Annexure R6. Perusing the cause

title of the said petition, the petitioner-husband himself has 34 furnished the address of respondent No.2 herein with door

number and other particulars. When he was aware of the

address of respondent No.2-wife he could have very well

mentioned in his petition before the Hon'ble High Court of

Justice, Family Division at U.K. Looking to the order passed

by the said Court at U.K., it clearly shows that petitioner has

mentioned in the petition that address and whereabouts of

respondent-wife are not known to him and it is because of

this reason the U.K. Court has passed an ex-parte order

stating that as the address of respondent-wife is not known

to the petitioner, question of issuing notice of the petition

will not arise and as such, Court is passing ex-parte interim

order as against the respondent. Hence, it is submitted that

petitioner-husband has committed a fraud on the Court to

obtain such order. When such a fraud has been committed

while obtaining the orders at the hands of the Court at U.K,

it is no order at all and it is nullity in the eye of law. This

itself shows the clandestine design of the petitioner-husband

to obtain such orders before the U.K.Court. Petitioner-

husband has not approached this Court with clean hands. 35 The remedies under the writ jurisdiction are discretionary

and the person who is approaching the Court must come

with clean hands so far as the factual aspect of the case is

concerned. He has further submitted that even regarding

filing of the petition before the Mysuru Court was not at all

mentioned before the Court at U.K. and even in this writ

petition he has not furnished full details of said petition and

the reliefs claimed therein and only in one sentence he has

mentioned that petition filed before the Family Court at

Mysuru came to be withdrawn by the petitioner. Hence, the

learned senior counsel submitted that when a person is

making such false averments in the petition, his contention

that he will look after the children and will help for their

education and that even he is ready to take his wife-

respondent No.2 to U.K., cannot be accepted at all. That

both the children of petitioner and respondent No.2 are

minor and Anantha Prasad is hardly aged one year and three

months and is a milk sucking child, presently in the custody

of the mother. Even the daughter Lakshmi Prasad is

nearing to puberty and it is more convenient and advisable 36 that daughter Lakshmi Prasad should be in the care and

custody of her mother-respondent No.2. It is further

submitted by the learned senior counsel that the contention

of the other side that the husband and wife went to U.K.

with an intention to permanently settle in U.K. is not correct.

He drew our attention to the statement of objections filed

wherein at paragraph No.1 of the said objection statement

he has furnished the table to show the period and duration

of stay of respondent No.2 in India. He has further

submitted that the elder child Lakshmi Prasad is prosecuting

her studies in India and the children are more familiar and

accustomed to the lifestyle and culture of the family in India,

which is more comfortable and favourable to the children to

prosecute their studies. It is submitted that welfare of

children is the paramount consideration while passing the

orders by the Courts of law, under these circumstances, if

respondent No.2 is ordered to take back her children to

England and to fight the litigation before the U.K. Court, it

becomes very difficult for her. She being a lady, should

alone has to fight out the matter in U.K. without support of 37 anybody. It is further submitted that even respondent No.2

has filed the petition before the Family Court at Bengaluru in

G&WC No.85/16 under Sections 7-8 of the Guardians and

Wards Act 1890 seeking relief of declaration that petitioner-

respondent No.2 herein is suitable and competent to be

appointed as the guardian of the children Lakshmi Prasad

and Ananth Prasad for the welfare of the children and in

their best interest and the Court be pleased to direct

appointment of the petitioner-respondent No.2 herein as the

guardian of the children. She has also sought for decree of

permanent injunction to restrain the respondent therein, his

agents, associates or anyone on their behalf attempting to

separate the children from the custody of the petitioner by

any means. Learned senior counsel submitted that the said

petition is still pending consideration. Hence, he submitted

that in view of these factual aspects which are true and

correct, the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel

appearing for the petitioner-husband will not apply to the

case on hand and hence submitted to dismiss the writ

petition holding that petitioner is not entitled to any relief in 38 the petition. In support of his contention, learned senior

counsel for respondent No.2 has also relied upon several

decisions. 14. We have also heard the learned Government

Advocate representing respondent No.1. He has submitted

that as per the order passed by the U.K. Court the children

will have to be sent back to the jurisdiction of the U.K Court. 15. We have perused the pleadings of both sides,

documents produced in support of their contentions,

decisions relied upon by both sides and the principles

enunciated in the said decisions. 16. The marriage of petitioner and respondent No.2

herein was performed in the year 2007. The couple are

having two children, elder one is the daughter Lakshmi

Prasad, who was born in India in the year 2010 and the

younger one is the son Master Ananth Prasad aged one year

three months, born in U.K. in the year 2016 when the 39 couple were staying at U.K. The pleadings of the parties

show that both husband and wife are gainfully employed in

U.K. Though it is the contention of the petitioner that they

are the habitual residents of U.K, but same has been denied

by respondent No.2-wife and she has contended in her

objection statement that they went to U.K to do the job for

some time and thereafter they wanted to come back to

India. It is also her contention that they never intended to

stay permanently in U.K. It is the contention of the

petitioner that he acquired citizenship of U.K. in November

2015, which is also denied by respondent No.2. The main

allegation of the petitioner as against respondent No.2 is

that she has illegally and unlawfully removed the children

from the jurisdiction of the U.K. Court and is having illegal

and unlawful custody of the minor children. But this

allegation made by the petitioner is not correct, because in

the petition at paragraph No.8 he has contended that it was

decided that the parties along with the minor children shall

take a trip to India to visit their relatives in December 2015

and trip was planned from 24.12.2015 with a return journey 40 on 19.1.2016. It is further pleaded that the said visit was

also to celebrate the minor son Ananth Prasad's first

birthday and to visit their relatives. Considering this

pleading it cannot be said that respondent No.2 removed the

children illegally and unlawfully from the jurisdiction of U.K.

Court. Looking to the pleadings of both sides, it shows that

difference arose between the parties and all was not well

between the couple when they reached Bengaluru Airport on

25.12.2015. According to the petitioner, it is respondent

No.2 and her relatives who blocked his way and respondent

No.2 taking undue advantage of the same, took the children

with her and went towards her parents and though

petitioner made attempt to see her, he could not do so since

his way was blocked and he was not able to see his wife and

children. But as per the contention of respondent No.2 in

her objection statement, immediately after they reached

Bengaluru Airport, petitioner started to converse with his

father in order to cause harm to respondent No.2 and to her

family members, she went towards her parents and since

the minor children immediately after coming to Bengaluru 41 Airport, due to their attachment with the grand parents ran

towards them. It was not with an intention to block the way

of the petitioner as he has alleged. However, the pleadings

of both sides show that some difference of opinion and

dispute arose between the couple when they reached

Bengaluru Airport. The material also goes to show that one

unknown person who was also present at the Airport told

the petitioner that his wife gave petition by way of e-mail

making allegations and asked the petitioner to come to the

police station on the next day. Though petitioner has not

disclosed in his petition that thereafter he filed petition in

M.C.No.24/2016 before the Family Court at Mysuru against

respondent No.2-wife under Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage

Act for restitution of conjugal rights so also, seeking custody

of the minor children, respondent No.2 in her objection

statement made it clear that such a petition was filed by the

petitioner before the Family Court at Mysuru and even she

has produced the copy of the petition filed on 5.1.2016

along with her objection statement. This clearly shows that

there was a matrimonial difference between the couple, as 42 such, petitioner filed said petition before the Court at

Mysuru. 17. The important aspect to be considered by us is, in

the M.C.No.24/2016 filed before the Court at Mysuru,

petitioner herein has furnished the correct address of the

respondent No.2-wife. Even the door number, cross, block

everything is mentioned in the cause title while furnishing

the address of respondent No.2-wife. Even according to the

contention of the petitioner, as his wife did not respond to

his phone calls and did not bring the children to him, he

went back to U.K. on 13.1.2016 and he filed a petition

before the High Court of Justice, Family Division, U.K and

the said Court has passed the order on 29.2.2016.

Petitioner has produced copy of the statement of the

applicant (in the form of petition) filed before the U.K. Court

as per Annexure 'E' and also the order passed by the U.K.

Court as per Annexure 'F'. We have perused the order

passed by the U.K. Court. Under the caption "recitals", it is

mentioned as under: (emphasis supplied)

At paragraph No.5 of the said order it is mentioned as

under: 18. Looking to the contents of the petition presented

by the petitioner himself it is seen that they have left

England along with their minor children to take trip to India

on 24.12.2015 with a return date of 19.1.2016. But in the 44 statement filed in the form of application before the U.K.

Court he made the allegation that the children were

abducted and they were illegally and unlawfully removed

from the jurisdiction of the U.K. Court by respondent No.2.

Though the case before the High Court of Justice, Family

Division at U.K. was subsequent to filing of M.C.No.24/2016,

the petitioner has not at all mentioned about the said fact in

his statement before the U.K. Court. He has suppressed the

material fact with an intention to obtain ex-parte order at

the hands of U.K. Court. Not only that, in the petition

before the U.K. Court, (at paragraph No.11) he has also

pleaded "the Court to make a Third Party Disclosure Order

as he thoroughly believe that Jyothi Sunil, who is a friend of

his wife and neighbour is aware of his wife's and children's

whereabouts." This statement at paragraph No.11 is also

patently false in view of furnishing the detailed address of

respondent No.2 in M.C. No.24/2016 before the Family

Court at Mysuru. Looking to the tenor of the order passed

by the Court at U.K. it is clear that, had the petitioner

furnished the correct address of respondent No.2, the 45 Hon'ble Court at U.K. would have definitely issued notice to

the respondent No.2-wife before passing such order, in as

much as it is clear from the order of the U.K. Court that the

order was made without notice to the respondent-wife

because the applicant allegedly did not know the

respondent's whereabouts. After obtaining the order from

the Hon'ble Court at U.K, it is the petitioner, who served

that order on the respondent-wife. So when he was not

knowing the whereabouts or the address of respondent

No.2, it is strange as to how he could serve the order on

respondent No.2. The same is also an important aspect to

be taken into consideration while appreciating the

contention of the petitioner. 19. The materials clearly show that the petitioner was

definitely knowing the address of the respondent-wife and in

spite of that he furnished the wrong particulars to the U.K.

Court and suppressed the truth, thereby he has committed

fraud on the Hon'ble Court at U.K. When a person has

committed fraud on the Court, the question as to whether 46 such a person is entitled to the relief in the form of writ of

habeas corpus to be considered. The remedy under the writ

jurisdiction is a discretionary remedy and the person

approaching the Court must show his bonafides in filing such

petition and he must also establish that he has approached

the Court with clean hands, as otherwise, such persons are

not entitled to the discretionary relief as claimed in the

habeas corpus petition. The person committing fraud

cannot be permitted to take the advantage of his own fraud.

Even as per Section 13(e) of the Code of Civil Procedure,

1908, the order obtained by the petitioner from the Hon'ble

Court at U.K. under the aforesaid circumstances is not

conclusive. Section 13(e) of CPC reads as under:- Even according to the provisions of CPC , the petitioner is not

permitted to take advantage of the order that he has

obtained from the Hon'ble Court at U.K. by committing fraud

on the said Court. When a person is not fair and honest in

submitting true facts before the Court while getting relief at

the hands of the Courts of law, then his further averments in

the petition that he is even ready to take back his wife-

respondent No.2 herein along with children to U.K. cannot

be accepted. For administering justice by the Courts in a

given case, the pleading submitted by the parties is the

foundation. When a party is not fair enough to submit the

true facts and on the contrary is suppressing material facts

before the Court, we are of the opinion that the petitioner is

not entitled to seek the discretionary relief in the present

petition. 20. The material placed on record shows that the

daughter Lakshmi Prasad is aged about 6 years and as

contended by respondent No.2-wife in her objection

statement, within a period of 2-3 years she is going to attain

puberty and hence, it is necessary that she shall have to be

in the custody of her mother. Further, the son Ananth

Prasad is just aged one year and three months and he is a

milk sucking child and as such, mother is the guardian to

both the children. It is also the contention of respondent

No.2-wife that she has to take care of her children and if she

is compelled to go to U.K along with her children to fight out

the matter in the Court at U.K. as contended by the

petitioner, then it will be very difficult for her since she is

not having any relative in England. 21. Perusal of the petition copy filed in

M.C.No.24/2016 before the Family Court at Mysuru shows

that the petitioner herein has even sought the relief of

custody of minor children also. It is he who has chosen and

submitted to the jurisdiction Court in India by filing such 49 petition. When such petition was pending before the Court in

India (Mysuru in Karnataka state), he should not have filed

the case before the U.K.Court for custody of the children.

The petitioner is not even ready to mention about filing of

such petition before the Mysuru Family Court, in this habeas

corpus petition also. Only while referring to the reply sent

by respondent No.2-wife to the petitioner in respect of the

order passed by the Hon'ble Court at U.K. he made a

passing reference in this writ petition about he filing such

petition before the Family Court at Mysuru. He has

withdrawn the M.C. petition filed before the Mysuru Court

only after the respondent No.2 entered appearance before

the said Court by filing her vakalath. The material also goes

to show that respondent No.2 has filed the petition before

the Family Court at Bengaluru in G&WC No.85/2016 under Sections 7 and 8 of the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890

seeking declaration that she is suitable and competent to be

appointed as the guardian of the minor children. Said

petition is also pending consideration before the Court. So

far as the custody of the minor children are concerned, the 50 welfare of the minor children is the paramount consideration

to be kept in mind by the Courts of law before passing

orders. The Indian Court before which the petition is

already filed and pending consideration has to take decision

in the matter regarding custody of the minor children, under

the facts and circumstances of this case. 22. The decisions relied upon by the learned counsel

for the petitioner and the principles enunciated in the said

decisions cannot be disputed. But the question is whether

said decisions are applicable to the case on hand when the

petitioner has obtained the order from the Hon'ble Court at

U.K. by committing fraud on the said Court. As we have

made detailed discussion with reference to the said aspect,

we are of the opinion that the said decisions relied upon by

the learned counsel for the petitioner will not come to the

aid and assistance of the petitioner's case in view of the

facts and circumstances involved in the present case and the

circumstances under which the petitioner has obtained such

order at the hands of the Hon'ble Court at U.K. Apart from 51 that, considering the fact that the minor children are of the

age group 6 years and about one year respectively and as

they continue with the custody of the mother, respondent

No.2 cannot be compelled to hand over the custody of the

minor children to the petitioner particularly when the case in

G&WC No.85/2016 on the file of Family Court at Bengaluru

is also pending for consideration. 23. As has been held by the Apex Court in the case of SURYA VADANAN .vs. STATE OF TAMIL NADU AND OTHERS {(2015)5 SCC 450}, the interlocutory order for making child

ward of Court passed by foreign Court of competent

jurisdiction first in point of time deserves due weight and

respect. The parent of the ward should not violate such

interlocutory order and any violation of such order should be

viewed strictly by the Court inasmuch as that would be

destructive of rule of law and principle of comity of Courts.

Other judgments relied upon by the petitioner also lay down

the very principle. However, sometimes exception can be

made based on certain circumstances, as observed in the 52 very judgments. Thus in the normal circumstances, the

Respondent No.2 being the mother of the children against

whom an interlocutory order is passed by the UK Court for

making the children Wards of the Court, should obey such

order. Since the same is first in point of time, such order

should not be allowed to be violated by Respondent No.2.

However the circumstances in the present case are different

to certain extent from the facts in the case of Surya

Vadanan cited supra. We have already clarified in the

aforementioned paragraphs that the petitioner herein

suppressed the material facts before the UK Court and

obtained the interim order, on which he has relied upon

before this Court. Though the petitioner very well knew the

correct address where Respondent No.2 is residing at

Bengaluru in Karnataka State, he has suppressed the said

fact before the UK Court by mentioning in the petition filed

before the UK Court that he does not know the whereabouts

and the correct address of Respondent No.2 and as to where

the children are kept by Respondent No.2. At the time of

filing petition before the UK Court, petitioner very well knew 53 that Respondent No.2 was residing at No.113, 2nd Cross, ST

Bed Layout, 4th Block, Koramangala, Bengaluru-560 034.

The very address is given by the petitioner in M.C.

No.24/2016 filed by him before the Family Court at Mysuru

claiming the restitution of conjugal rights as well as custody

of the children. Respondent No.2 was served with notice in

the very address at Bengaluru. It is relevant to note that

M.C. No.24/2016 was filed by the petitioner before the

Family Court at Mysuru on 5.1.2016. On service of notice,

Respondent No.2 appeared before the Family Court in the

said petition through an advocate. The said petition filed at

Mysuru came to be withdrawn by the petitioner on

15.3.2016, which means the petition filed at Mysuru was

pending consideration from 5.1.2016 to 15.3.2016. It is

further relevant to note that the petitioner had shown his

residential address as Flat No.30, Brandavan Apartment,

Yadavgiri, Mysuru-57020 in M.C.No.24/2016. The

aforementioned facts would clearly reveal that the petitioner

is permanent resident of Mysuru and Respondent No.2 is 54 permanent resident of Bengaluru even on 5.1.2016 and

they continued in the very address till 15.3.2016. 24. As mentioned supra, during the subsistence of

M.C. No.24/2016 in the Family Court at Mysuru, the

petitioner approached UK Court on 19.2.2016 seeking the

custody of the children. The Court at UK passed an interim

order on 29.2.2016 in favour of the petitioner. We have

already clarified that while filing petition before the UK Court

on 19.2.2016 and even at the time of passing the order by

the UK Court on 29.2.2016, the petitioner represented

before the UK Court that he is the resident of United

Kingdom and that he does not know the whereabouts of his

wife (Respondent No.2) and two children. As he very well

know the correct address of Respondent No.2, it is not open

for the petitioner to suppress and play fraud on UK Court for

obtaining an interim order dated 29.2.2016, based on which

the present petition is filed. 25. There cannot be any dispute that fraud vitiates

everything. The petitioner's action of playing fraud on UK 55 Court will have to be viewed seriously. The wrong doer

cannot take advantage of his own fault. Since the petitioner

has played fraud and obtained the interim order dated

29.2.2016 from the UK Court, he shall not be allowed to

take advantage of the said order. The petitioner being an

educated person, ought to have stated correct and true facts

before the UK Court. In view of the aforementioned special

reasons, we are of the clear opinion that the petitioner is not

entitled for the relief as sought for in this writ petition. 26. Moreover as held by the Apex Court in the case of

SURYA VADANAN cited supra, if foreign Court has most

intimate contact and closest concern with child and parents,

because of their long residence and acquisition of citizenship

of that country etc., that Court would be most suitable for

determining best interests and welfare of child, rather than

domestic Court if it lacks such contact and concern. In the

matter on hand, as mentioned supra, the petitioner himself

has declared that he is a permanent resident of Mysuru and

that Respondent No.2 is permanent resident of Bengaluru in 56 M.C. No.24/2016 filed before the Family Court at Mysuru. It

is also mentioned in M.C. No.24/2016 that two children are

residing with Respondent No.2 at Bengaluru. If it is so, it

cannot be said that foreign Court has most intimate contact

and closest concern with children and parents. On the other

hand, the petitioner has himself declared that it is the Court

at Mysuru or Bengaluru which has got most intimate contact

and closest concern with children and parents and that

therefore the Court at Mysuru or Bengaluru has got

jurisdiction to try the matter. 27. In view of the above, we do not find any reason to

grant relief in favour of the petitioner as prayed in the writ

petition. Accordingly, petition fails and the same stands

dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE
Bsr/bkp