B.R. GAVAI, J. Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by Jayant Kumar Arora Date: 2021.03.10 1. Leave to file Civil Appeal in Diary No. 24125 of 17:08:36 IST Reason: 2020 is granted. 2. All these appeals, assail the judgment and order

of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi

(hereinafter referred to as “NCLAT”) dated 5.8.2020, passed

in Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) Nos. 344­345 of 2020. 3. By the said judgment and order dated 5.8.2020,

NCLAT has allowed the appeals filed by Kotak Investment

Advisors Limited (hereinafter referred to as “KIAL”),

respondent No.1 herein, aggrieved by two separate orders

dated 28.11.2019 passed by National Company Law

Tribunal, Mumbai Bench (hereinafter referred to as “NCLT”

or “Adjudicating Authority”) in M.A. No.1039 of 2019 and

M.A. No. 691 of 2019. NCLAT has set aside the said orders

passed in the said M.As. M.A. No.1039 of 2019 was filed by

KIAL objecting to grant of approval to the resolution plan

submitted by Kalpraj Dharamshi and Rekha Jhunjhunwala,

a consortium, (hereinafter referred to as “Kalpraj”), which is

appellant in Civil Appeal Nos. 2943­2944 of 2020. NCLT

has rejected the said M.A. Whereas, M.A. No. 691 of 2019

was filed by the Resolution Professional of Ricoh India

Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporate Debtor”) 3 for grant of approval to the Resolution Plan submitted by

Kalpraj. NCLT has allowed the said M.A. and approved the

resolution plan submitted by Kalpraj. 4. The facts in brief, giving rise to the present

appeals are as under: RP vide notification dated 9.7.2018 invited

expression of interest (hereinafter referred to as “EOI”) to

submit a resolution plan from interested resolution

applicants, who fulfilled the minimum conditions stipulated

in the said document (EOI). As per the said EOI, if any

proposed applicant had any queries or clarifications, it was

required to write to RP on or before 31.7.2018. The EOI was

required to be submitted via email on the email address of

RP or via post at the address mentioned in the said

invitation on or before 8.8.2018. On the said date i.e. 9.7.2018, analogously, the

first Form ‘G’ also came to be notified. Vide the said Form

‘G’, the last date prescribed for submission of Resolution

Plan was on or before 21.9.2018. The second Form ‘G’ came

to be issued on 24.8.2018, which required the Resolution

Plans to be submitted on or before 28.9.2018. The third

Form ‘G’ came to be issued on 28.9.2018, which required

the Resolution Plans to be submitted on or before

25.10.2018. The fourth Form ‘G’ came to be issued on 5 9.11.2018, which required the Resolution Plans to be

submitted on or before 13.12.2018. The fifth and the last

Form ‘G’ came to be issued on 11.12.2018, which required

the Resolution Plans to be submitted on or before 8.1.2019. KIAL, the appellant before NCLAT (respondent

No.1 herein) and one Karvy Data Management Systems

Limited submitted their Resolution Plans on the last date as

stipulated in the last and fifth Form ‘G’ i.e. on 8.1.2019. One another applicant i.e. WeP Solutions Ltd.

submitted its Resolution Plan jointly with one Sattva Real

Estate Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as “WeP”) on

13.1.2019. The appellant in Civil Appeal Nos. 2943­2944 of

2020 i.e. Kalpraj submitted its EOI and Resolution Plan to

RP on 27.1.2019. On 29.1.2019, KIAL sent an email to RP, raising

its objection permitting Kalpraj to submit Resolution Plan,

beyond the prescribed time limit. In the meeting of CoC

held on 30.1.2019, the Resolution Plan of Kalpraj was

placed before CoC. In the said meeting, CoC resolved to

direct all the applicants to submit revised plans.

Accordingly, an email was sent to KIAL directing it to submit 6 its revised plan. Accordingly, KIAL submitted its revised

plan on 1.2.2019. By another email dated 10.2.2019, KIAL

once again objected to consideration of the plan submitted

by Kalpraj. It is the case of KIAL, that it had received an

email on 11.2.2019 from RP, justifying the consideration of

plan submitted by Kalpraj and asking it to submit a second

revised plan. However, this is disputed by RP. However, it

is not in dispute, that on 12.2.2019, revised plans were

submitted by KIAL as well as Kalpraj. In the meeting of CoC

held on 13/14.2.2019, plan of Kalpraj came to be approved

by a majority. After CoC had approved the plan of Kalpraj, RP

applied for approval of the plan before NCLT on 18.2.2019

vide M.A. No. 691 of 2019 in Company Petition (IB) No.

156/MB/2018. After coming to know about RP applying for

approval of the plan of Kalpraj, KIAL filed an application on

14.3.2019 being M.A. No.1039 of 2019, objecting to the plan

of Kalpraj. The objection was on the ground, that RP was

not justified in permitting Kalpraj to submit a plan beyond

the date prescribed in Form ‘G’ and that the decision of CoC 7 to approve the plan submitted by Kalpraj was not in

accordance with the I&B Code. Vide order dated

28.11.2019, NCLT allowed M.A. No.691 of 2019 and

approved the Resolution Plan of Kalpraj and by a separate

order passed on the same day, NCLT rejected M.A. No.1039

of 2019, which was filed by KIAL objecting to the decision of

CoC approving the plan submitted by Kalpraj. Contending, that the procedure followed by NCLT

was in breach of the principles of natural justice, KIAL filed

a writ petition before the Bombay High Court being Writ

Petition (L) No.3621 of 2019, challenging the aforesaid two

orders passed by NCLT. The High Court dismissed the Writ

Petition (L) No.3621 of 2019 filed by KIAL by judgment and

order dated 28.1.2020, on the ground, that KIAL had an

alternate and efficacious remedy of filing an appeal before

NCLAT. KIAL thereafter filed appeals before NCLAT on

18.2.2020. The appeals were opposed by Kalpraj and also

by RP on the ground, that the appeals were filed beyond the

limitation period prescribed under the I&B Code and as

such, ought not to be entertained. However, vide order 8 dated 5.8.2020, NCLAT did not find favour with the

objections raised by the respondents before it, with regard

to limitation and further found, that the procedure adopted

by RP and CoC was in breach of the provisions of the I&B

Code and therefore, allowed the appeals filed by KIAL. Vide the said order, NCLAT, while setting aside

both the orders dated 28.11.2019, passed by NCLT, also

directed CoC to take a decision afresh, in the light of the

directions issued in its order, regarding consideration of the

Resolution Plans, which were submitted prior to the

prescribed date as per last Form ‘G’. This was directed to be

done in a period of ten days from the date of the said order.

NCLAT further directed, that if no decision was

communicated to the Adjudicating Authority i.e. NCLT and

since the timeline for completion of CIRP had already

expired, the Adjudicating Authority was to pass an order for

liquidation of the corporate debtor. 5. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid order passed by

NCLAT, four appeals have been filed before this Court, the

details thereof are as under: SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI MUKUL ROHATGI, LEARNED

SENIOR COUNSEL APPEARING ON BEHALF OF KALPRAJ 7. Shri Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Counsel

submitted, that though four Form ‘G’ were issued by RP

inviting the Resolution Plans from the prospective resolution

applicants, no plans were received from any of the

prospective resolution applicants. He submitted, that in

pursuance to the last and fifth Form ‘G’ published on

11.12.2018, only two Resolution Plans were received, that

too, on the last date i.e. 8.1.2019. He submitted, that in the

meantime, Kalpraj submitted its plan on 27.1.2019. He

submitted, that in the meeting of CoC held on 30.1.2019, in

order to achieve the object of maximization, all the

applicants were asked to submit their revised resolution

plans. He submitted, that KIAL without demur, submitted 11 its revised plans not only once but twice. It is therefore

submitted, that having submitted its revised plans twice,

KIAL is now estopped from challenging the acceptance of

the plan of Kalpraj. It is submitted, that in the meeting of

CoC held on 13/14.2.2019, the plans came to be considered

by CoC and CoC by the whopping majority of 84.36% voting

rights approved the plan of Kalpraj. He submitted, that only

one creditor i.e. Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (hereinafter

referred to as “Kotak Bank”), which is a holding company of

KIAL, having voting rights of 0.97%, voted in favour of KIAL. 8. Relying on the judgment of this Court in the case

of K. Sashidhar vs. Indian Overseas Bank & Ors.1 , Shri

Rohatgi submitted, the opinion on the subject matter

expressed by the creditors after due deliberation in CoC

meeting through voting, which decision is taken as per the

commercial wisdom, is not justiciable before the

Adjudicating Authority. He also relied on the judgment of

this Court in the case of Committee of Creditors of Essar

1 (2019) 12 SCC 150 12 Steel India Limited through Authorised Signatory vs.

Satish Kumar Gupta & Ors.2 9. Shri Rohatgi further submitted, that as held by

this Court in Innoventive Industries Ltd. vs. ICICI Bank

& Anr.3, I&B Code is a complete code in itself. He

submitted, that Section 61(2) of the I&B Code provides, that

the decision of the Adjudicating Authority (i.e. NCLT) may be

challenged before NCLAT within 30 days. He submitted,

that an appeal would be tenable within a further period of

15 days, only when NCLAT comes to a satisfaction, that

there was a sufficient cause for not filing the appeal within a

period of 30 days. He submitted, that since the I&B Code is

a complete Code, neither Section 5 nor Section 14 of the

Limitation Act, 1963 (hereinafter referred to as “the Limitation Act ”) would be applicable. He submitted, that

the judgment of NCLT was delivered on 28.11.2019; certified

copies of the same were made available to KIAL on

18.12.2019; and appeals came to be filed on 18.2.2020. He

submitted, even if KIAL was given the benefit of the period
2 (2019) SCC Online SC 1478
3 (2018) 1 SCC 407 13 of 20 days for obtaining the certified copies, still the appeals

ought to have been filed on 65 th day from the order of NCLT.

It would be somewhere on 1st/2nd February, 2020. However,

the appeals were filed on 18.2.2020. He submitted, that the

litigant like KIAL, which has a team of legal experts at its

disposal cannot be heard to say, that they were not aware of

the alternate remedy and had bona fide filed the writ

petition before the High Court. He submitted, that KIAL is

not entitled to the benefit of the exclusion of period between

11.12.2019 i.e. the date of filing of the writ petition and

28.1.2020 i.e. the date of dismissal of the writ petition by

the High Court. He submitted, that provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act would not at all be applicable and that

NCLAT has totally erred in law, in entertaining the appeals

which were ex facie beyond limitation. 10. Shri Rohatgi further submitted, that NCLT has

approved the plan on 28.11.2019. He submitted, that

though appeals were filed by KIAL, there was no stay on the

implementation of the resolution plan by Kalpraj till the

impugned order was passed by NCLAT on 5.8.2020, 14 whereunder, Kalpraj has taken various steps for

implementation of the Resolution Plan submitted by it. He

submitted, that Kalpraj has expended a total amount of

Rs.300 crore (approx.) in the following manner: iii. On 14.12.2019, a Post­offer public

 announcement was issued by the

 Appellants recording inter alia that the

 said consideration has been paid to

 public shareholders. iv. On 20.12.2019, BSE issued a notice in

 respect of discontinuation of trading 15 and delisting of equity shares of the

 Corporate Debtor. v. On 23.12.2019, debentures worth Rs.21

 crores were issued by the Corporate

 Debtor to Appellants. 100,00,00,000/­ (Rupees One Hundred

 Crores only). vii. Minosha Digital Solutions Pvt. Ltd. merged with the Corporate Debtor with

 effect from 28.11.2019. viii. On 27.12.2019, the Appellants replaced

 the Bank Guarantee issued by Deutsche

 Bank for INR 136,66,71,090/­ (Rupees

 One Hundred Thirty­Six Crores Sixty­

 Six Lakh Seventy­One Thousand and

 Ninety Only). (Rupees Two Crores Sixty­Five Lakh

 Sixty­Eight Thousand only) were paid

 by the Appellants. x. On 01.01.2020, the Appellants have

 made payment of INR 19,54,43,411/­

 (Rupees Nineteen Crores Fifty­Four

 Lakh Forty­Three Thousand Four

 Hundred and Eleven) to non­related

 party operational creditors of the

 Corporate Debtor. xi. From 01.01.2020 to 03.01.2020, the

 Appellants have made Equity infusion of

 INR 3 crores and an Equity infusion of

 INR 29 Crores in Company. shareholder) for the transfer of shares to

 Appellants. xiii. On 31.01.2020, the Board of directors

 of the Corporate Debtor was

 reconstituted and the Appellants

 became the owners and stepped into the

 management and control of corporate

 debtor. It is no more a subsidiary of

 Ricoh Japan. xiv. The Appellants are shareholders of the

 Corporate Debtor which is known by its

 new name Minosha India Limited. xv. On 03.02.2020, the RP (who was the

 Monitoring Agent of the Monitoring

 Committee) issued a communication

 recording that the approved Resolution

 Plan has been implemented. xvi. As on 31.07.2020, a total of 21,90,958

 no. of shares held by 809 shareholders

 have been tendered pursuant to the exit

 offer for a sum total of

 Rs.10,95,47,900/­. The said exit offer 18 is subsisting till December 2020, in

 accordance with the applicable SEBI

 rules and regulations. xvii. Registrar of Companies has only noted

 and issued a certificate of the change in

 name of the Corporate Debtor from

 Ricoh India Limited to Minosha India

 Limited.” 11. Shri Rohatgi submitted, that NCLAT has grossly

erred in holding, that the order passed by NCLT was in

breach of the principles of natural justice on the premise,

that the application of KIAL was heard by a single Member,

whereas the decision was signed by two Members. He

submitted, that perusal of the record would reveal, that

though M.A. No.1039 of 2019 i.e. objection of KIAL to the

approval of plan of Kalpraj, was initially listed before the

learned single Member, thereafter the proceedings would

itself show, that the said application was listed before two

learned Members on various dates along with main

application i.e. M.A. No.691 of 2019. He submitted, that the 19 counsels for KIAL have participated in the said proceedings

before the Bench of two Members without demur. He

submitted, that in any case, both, the application filed by

KIAL as well as the main application filed by RP, were

required to be decided together inasmuch as, the issues

were interconnected and therefore, they are rightly decided

by the orders passed on the same day. He therefore

submitted, that the finding of NCLAT with regard to

violation of the principles of natural justice is without any

merit. 12. Shri Rohatgi therefore submitted, that the

appeals deserve to be allowed, the order of NCLAT be set

aside and that of NCLT be restored. SUBMISSIONS BY DR. ABHISHEK MANU SINGHVI,

LEARNED SENIOR COUNSEL APPEARING FOR KALPRAJ 13. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior

Counsel also appeared on behalf of Kalpraj, which is also

respondent in the other appeals. Dr. Singhvi submitted,

that KIAL, in the covering letter along with its Resolution

Plan dated 8.1.2019, has unequivocally undertaken to waive 20 any and all claims in respect of the Resolution Plan Process.

He submitted, that the phrase ‘Resolution Plan Process’ is

defined in clause 1.0 of the Process Memorandum which

means, “the process set out in this Process Memorandum

for submission, evaluation and selection of Resolution Plan

and activities in relation or incidental thereto.” He

submitted, that in view of unconditional and irrevocable

acceptance of the terms of the Process Memorandum and

having voluntarily and expressly waived all claims with

respect to the Resolution Plan Process, it is not permissible

for KIAL to challenge the decision of CoC approving the

Resolution Plan of Kalpraj. He submitted, that clause 10.4

of the Process Memorandum itself provides, that RP was at

liberty to receive any Resolution Plan, at any stage of the

Resolution Plan Process and examine such Resolution Plan

with the approval of CoC. Learned Senior Counsel

submitted, that having chosen to revise its Resolution Plan

and submit the same on 12.2.2019 in competition with

Kalpraj, KIAL has clearly acquiesced to the consideration of

the Resolution Plan of Kalpraj by RP and CoC, even after the 21 prescribed date of 8.1.2019 and has waived all objections to

the consideration of such Resolution Plan. He submitted,

that even the holding company of KIAL i.e. Kotak Bank of

which KIAL is a 100% subsidiary also agreed with CoC

counsel’s view, that the Resolution Plan of Kalpraj can be

considered. 14. Dr. Singhvi submitted, that the conduct of KIAL

is totally indefensible. He submitted, that it amounts to

taking chances in the process and after having failed there,

then to challenge the process. He submitted, that KIAL had

submitted its revised plans after knowing, that it was

competing with Kalpraj, and only after it was not successful

in the process has chosen to challenge the same. He

submitted, that the revised Resolution Plan submitted by

KIAL does not state, that it is without prejudice to its

contention, that the Resolution Plans submitted after

8.1.2019 ought not to have been considered by RP and CoC.

He submitted, that even if such words were used they would

not be significant. He relied on the judgment of this Court

in the case of ITC Ltd. Vs. Blue Coast Hotels Limited & 22 Ors.4 and Tarapore & Company vs. Cochin Shipyard

Ltd., Cochin & Anr.5 , in this regard. 15. Dr. Singhvi further submitted, that Section 238 of

the I&B Code provides, that the provisions of the Code shall

have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent

therewith contained in any other law for the time being in

force. He therefore submitted, that the provisions as

contained in Section 61(2) of the I&B Code, which provides,

that an appeal has to be filed within 30 days with a further

enhanced period of 15 days, when NCLAT is satisfied, that a

sufficient cause existed for not filing the appeal within 30

days, has to be strictly construed. He relied on the

judgment of NCLAT in the case of Kumar Dutta prop. K.D.

Trading vs. Simplex Infrastructure Ltd.6 and Asha

Goyal vs. Pharma Traders Pvt. Ltd.7 in that regard. 16. Dr. Singhvi further submitted, that this Court in

a catena of cases has held, that when under special statutes

there is a provision for appeal and a self­contained provision

for limitation, no extension would be possible beyond the

4 (2018) 15 SCC 99
5 (1984) 2 SCC 680 (PARA 33)
6 2019 SCC Online NCLAT 575
7 2019 SCC Online NCLAT 150 23 period of time so stipulated. He relied on the following

judgments of this Court in this regard. Ltd. & Anr.12 has held, that the provisions of Section 14 of

the Limitation Act cannot be made applicable to the appeal

preferred under Section 67 of the I&B Code. 18. Dr. Singhvi submitted, that in any case, it cannot

be said, that filing of the writ petition was a bona fide act of

KIAL. He submitted, that KIAL, which was armed with a

battery of legal counsel, was very well aware, that it had an

alternate remedy of filing an appeal before NCLAT and

therefore, was not entitled to take an umbrella of Section 14 8 (2001) 8 SCC 470
9 (2008) 3 SCC 70
10 (2010) 5 SCC 23
11 2020 SCC Online NCLAT 532
12 2019 SCC Online NCLAT 444 24 of the Limitation Act . In this regard, he relied on the

judgment of this Court in the case of Neeraj Jhanji vs.

Commissioner of Customs & Central Excise13 . 19. Dr. Singhvi also reiterated the submissions made

on behalf of Kalpraj by Shri Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior

Counsel to the effect, that much water has flown after the

Resolution Plan was approved by NCLT and also highlighted

the various steps taken by Kalpraj for implementation of the

Resolution Plan. SUBMISSION OF SHRI K.V. VISWANATHAN, LEARNED

SENIOR COUNSEL APPEARING ON BEHALF OF

DEUTSCHE BANK A.G. AND CoC. 20. Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Counsel

appearing on behalf of Deutsche Bank, which is appellant in

one of the appeals and CoC, which is respondent in some of

the appeals submitted, that the order passed by NCLAT was

not sustainable inasmuch as, CoC was not made a party

before NCLAT. He submitted, that CoC had acted bona fide

only with a view of achieving maximization, by permitting

13(2015) 12 SCC 695 25 Kalpraj to participate. He submitted, that CoC had

approved the Resolution Plan submitted by Kalpraj by a

thumping majority of 84.36%. He submitted, that the

commercial wisdom of CoC is not open to judicial scrutiny

by the Adjudicating Authority, unless it falls within the

statutory parameters and as such, NCLT has rightly rejected

the objection of KIAL and NCLAT has erred in interfering

with the same. He submitted, that no prejudice is caused to

KIAL on account of deviation of the procedure, if any. In

this regard, he relied on the judgment of this Court in the

case of G.J. Fernandez vs. State of Karnataka & Ors.14 . SUBMISSION OF SHRI SHYAM DIVAN, LEARNED SENIOR

COUNSEL APPEARING FOR RP 21. Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Counsel

appearing on behalf of RP submitted, that RP had acted

bona fide in order to fetch the maximum benefit to the

Company. He submitted, that even after the prescribed last

date, in view of clause 10.4 of the Process Memorandum, RP

was entitled to consider the plans received subsequently
14 (1990) 2 SCC 488 26 with the approval of CoC. He submitted, that RP therefore

had bona fide accepted the plan of Kalpraj and not only that

but had also given an opportunity to KIAL to submit its

revised plans, so as to compete with Kalpraj. Shri Divan

also advanced the arguments on similar lines as were

advanced by the other counsel on the grounds of limitation,

acquiescence, etc.

SUBMISSION OF SHRI C.A. SUNDARAM, LEARNED

SENIOR COUNSEL APPEARING FOR FOURTH

DIMENSION SOLUTIONS LIMITED 22. Shri C.A. Sundaram, learned Senior Counsel

appearing for Fourth Dimension Solutions Limited,

appellant in Civil Appeal D.No.24125 of 2020, which claims

to have the highest amount recoverable from the Corporate

Debtor submitted, that the said appellant is not concerned

with the dispute between the parties, which is the subject

matter of consideration in the present appeals. It is further

contended, that the appellants’ dues are subject matter of

pending arbitration proceeding between the Corporate 27 Debtor and the appellants and is yet to attain finality, so as

to liquidate the dues. It is aggrieved by the direction given

in paragraph 39 by NCLT in its order dated 28.11.2019 in

M.A. No.691 of 2019. The learned Senior Counsel

submitted, that by the said direction it is directed, that the

Resolution Applicant who stepped into the shoes of

Corporate Debtor subsequent to the approval of the

Resolution Plan by it, shall not be held responsible for any

outstanding statutory dues and other claims for the period

before commencement of CIRP. In the submission of Shri

Sundaram, this direction is prejudicial to the appellant,

which is the largest operational creditor entitled to recover

an amount of 551 crores (approx..) from the Corporate

Debtor. It is also contended, that the claim of the appellant

– Fourth Dimension, though has been shown in the

information memorandum by RP, it has not been considered

by CoC or any of the applicants in their resolution plan. He

relied on the judgment/order dated 16.11.2020 passed by

this Court in Civil Appeal No. 2798 of 2020 [NTPC Ltd.

(Simhadri Project) vs. Rajiv Chakraborty] 28 SUBMISSION OF SHRI NEERAJ KISHAN KAUL,

LEARNED SENIOR COUNSEL APPEARING FOR KIAL 23. Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Senior Counsel

appearing on behalf of KIAL, while replying to the

arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants made

manifold submissions. 24. In reply to the submission on behalf of the

appellants, that the appeals filed by KIAL before NCLAT

being barred by limitation, the learned Senior Counsel

submitted, that the arguments advanced were not correct in

law and NCLAT has rightly held the appeals to be within

limitation. He submitted, that though non­exercise of

jurisdiction by the High Court under Article 226 of the

Constitution, in case of availability of alternate remedy is

the normal practice, the same is a rule of self­restraint and

not hard and fast rule. It is submitted, that the High Court

has wide jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution

and in a given case it can entertain a petition under Article

226 in spite of the availability of an alternate and efficacious

remedy. He submitted, that this Court itself in a catena of 29 cases has carved out categories wherein, the High Court is

entitled to exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 in spite

of the availability of alternate remedy. He submitted, that

one such category is where the proceedings challenged

before the High Court are proceeded in breach of principles

of natural justice. The learned Senior Counsel has relied on

the following judgments of this Court in support of this

proposition. Finally, on 19.9.2019, M.A. No.691 of 2019 was heard on

Resolution Plan and reserved for orders. Learned counsel

therefore submitted, that it is clear from the record, that

M.A. No.1039 of 2019 filed by KIAL, was heard on 3.7.2019

by the learned single Member and reserved for orders.

However, M.A. No. 691 of 2019 was heard by the Division

Bench on 19.9.2019. Learned counsel therefore submitted,

that the orders in M.A. No. 1039 of 2019 could have been

passed only by the learned single Member. However, by two

orders passed on even date i.e. 28.11.2019, the Division

Bench rejected the application of KIAL and allowed the

application filed by RP thereby, approving the Resolution

Plan submitted by Kalpraj. 26. Learned Senior Counsel submitted, that in this

background KIAL was justified in invoking the jurisdiction

of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution

inasmuch as, the proceedings conducted by NCLT were

totally in breach of the principles of natural justice, as the

matter was heard by a single Member whereas, the orders

were passed by the Division Bench. Learned counsel 32 submitted, that the High Court while dismissing the writ

petition and relegating KIAL to alternate remedy available in

law has passed an elaborate order. Learned Senior Counsel

therefore submitted, that it does not lie in the mouth of the

appellants, that KIAL had not approached the High Court

bona fide. Learned Senior Counsel submitted, that in view of

various judgments delivered by this Court, the High Court

could have entertained a petition under Article 226 , when

the proceedings were conducted in breach of the principles

of natural justice. 27. Shri Kaul, learned Senior Counsel therefore

submitted, that NCLAT was right in law in giving the benefit

of the period for which KIAL was bona fide prosecuting its

writ petition before the Bombay High Court. Learned Senior

Counsel submitted, that if that period is considered, the

appeals filed by KIAL are very well within the limitation. 28. Learned Senior Counsel submitted, that the

purpose behind Article 14 of the Limitation Act is to

advance justice and not to halt justice. He submitted, that Section 14 enables a party to get the benefit of the period for

which it was bona fide prosecuting the remedy before a 33 wrong forum. Learned counsel submitted, that a liberal

approach is required to be given to the provisions of Article 14. Learned counsel relied on the judgments of this Court

in the case of Ketan V. Parekh vs. Special Director,

Directorate of Enforcement & Anr.18, M.P. Steel

Corporation vs. Commissioner of Central Excise19 and Union of India & Ors. vs. West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. &

Anr.20 in this regard. 29. Insofar as the arguments of the appellants with

regard to acquiescence and waiver are concerned, learned

Senior Counsel submitted, that, at the earliest opportunity,

KIAL has objected to Kalpraj submitting its Resolution Plan.

He submitted, that on KIAL coming to know, that the

Resolution Plan of Kalpraj was accepted beyond 8.1.2019,

KIAL objected to it vide email dated 29.1.2019 addressed to

RP. He submitted, that RP had replied to its email on

30.1.2019 and requested to submit amended Resolution

Plan by 3.00 p.m. on 1.2.2019. He submitted, that in the

said email it is also mentioned, that “CoC reserves the rights
18 (2011) 15 SCC 30
19 (2015) 7 SCC 58
20 (2004) 3 SCC 458 34 to not consider your plan, if received after the said timeline”.

He submitted, that accordingly, KIAL had no other option

but to submit its revised plan. 30. Learned Senior Counsel submitted, that even

after submission of the revised plan, KIAL did not hear

anything from RP and therefore vide email dated 10.2.2019,

addressed to RP, it again raised its objection. The said

email was replied to by RP on 11.2.2019 wherein, RP stated,

that the resolution plans submitted after the due date also

could be considered, in the spirit of value maximisation of

assets of the corporate debtor. He submitted, that again

vide communication dated 11.2.2019, KIAL was required to

submit a revised bid, which was submitted by it on

12.2.2019. Learned counsel therefore submitted, that it is

clear from the record, that KIAL had objected to the

participation of Kalpraj at the earliest possible opportunity

i.e. on 29.1.2019. Not only that, thereafter KIAL continued

to object to the participation of Kalpraj. Revised plans were

submitted by KIAL under compulsion inasmuch as, if it

would not have submitted its revised plans, on that ground 35 alone it had to face the risk of being ousted from

consideration. It is therefore submitted, that the

contention, that KIAL has acquiesced to the participation of

Kalpraj and was therefore estopped from challenging its

participation is without any substance. Learned counsel

submitted, that the contention, that KIAL was taking

chances is also totally incorrect. It had objected to the

participation of Kalpraj at the very first opportunity and

continued to object till CoC approved its plan and also

thereafter, by way of an application before NCLT objecting to

the approval of the Resolution Plan of Kalpraj. 31. Learned counsel further submitted, that the

contention, that KIAL is a subsidiary of Kotak Bank and

that Kotak Bank had also not objected to Kalpraj submitting

its Resolution Plan and therefore the same amounted to

acquiescence is also not correct. He submitted, that firstly,

in the reply filed by RP to the application filed by KIAL in

NCLT, there is no plea regarding the Kotak Bank’s

consensus. He however submitted, that in any case in view

of the judgment of this Court in the case of Vodafone 36 International Holdings BV vs. Union of India & Anr.21 ,

both KIAL and Kotak Bank are different corporate entities

and any act of Kotak Bank cannot bind KIAL. 32. On merits, Shri Kaul would submit, that the

entire process adopted by RP and CoC was contrary to the

statutory provisions, fair play and transparency. He

submitted, that perusal of the definition of ‘applicant’ in the

Process Memorandum in clause 1.0 would show, that for

being a resolution applicant, one has to be an applicant who

has applied within the prescribed period either under EOI or

Form ‘G’. It is submitted, that since Kalpraj had neither

responded within the period prescribed under EOI or any of

the Form ‘G’, it could not have been considered to be a

resolution applicant. He submitted, that the entire

participation of Kalpraj is illegal. He submitted, that after

the plan was submitted by KIAL there was a detailed

discussion with RP with regard to the plan submitted by it,

wherein entire plan was disclosed, after which Kalpraj was

permitted to step in. He submitted, that perusal of the

Resolution Plan of Kalpraj would reveal, that it is identical

21 (2012) 6 SCC 613 37 with the plans submitted by KIAL, with a little variation to

the extent, that in the plan of KIAL the provision made for

minority shareholder is Rs.1 crore whereas, in the plan of

Kalpraj it is Rs. 50 crore. He submitted, that the entire

conduct of RP as well as CoC would reveal, that they had

acted in a manner that smacks of favouritism to Kalpraj and

were determined to anyhow approve the plan of Kalpraj. It

is submitted, that all these aspects have been rightly

considered by NCLAT and therefore, the appeals deserve to

be dismissed. 33. With regard to the contention of the

appellant/Kalpraj, that it has taken several steps in

pursuance of the Resolution Plan, which was approved by

NCLT and any interference at this stage would cause great

prejudice to many stakeholders, learned counsel submitted,

that not much has been done under the Resolution Plan.

He submits, in any case, whatever steps have been taken

are almost identical with the steps that KIAL would have

taken inasmuch as, the Resolution Plan submitted by

Kalpraj is almost identical with the Resolution Plan 38 submitted by KIAL. He submitted, that in any case,

whatever amount has been spent by Kalpraj, the same

could be reimbursed by KIAL and further steps being

continued to be taken by KIAL, so as to take the Resolution

Plan to the logical end. 34. Insofar as the judgment of NCLAT in the case of Binani Industries Limited vs. Bank of Baroda & Anr.22 is concerned, learned counsel submitted, that the said

judgment is totally distinguishable inasmuch as, in the said

case both applicants had submitted their plans and revised

plans within the stipulated period. 35. In view of the rival submissions, following

questions arise for our consideration. 22 2018 SCC Online NCLAT 565 39 (i) WHETHER THE APPEALS FILED BY KIAL BEFORE

NCLAT WERE WITHIN LIMITATION? 36. For appreciating the rival contentions in this

regard, it would be appropriate to refer to Section 29(2) of

the Limitation Act, so also the provisions of Section 61 and

Section 238A of the I&B Code. Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act. “29. Savings.—(1) ……. (2) Where any special or local law
 prescribes for any suit, appeal or
 application a period of limitation
 different from the period prescribed
 by the Schedule, the provisions of Section 3 shall apply as if such
 period were the period prescribed by
 the Schedule and for the purpose of
 determining any period of limitation
 prescribed for any suit, appeal or
 application by any special or local
 law, the provisions contained in Sections 4 to 24 (inclusive) shall
 apply only insofar as, and to the
 extent to which, they are not
 expressly excluded by such special
 or local law.”
 Section 61 and 238A of the I&B Code
 “61. Appeals and Appellate
 Authority.—(1) Notwithstanding
 anything to the contrary contained
 under the Companies Act, 2013 , any
 person aggrieved by the order of the 40 Adjudicating Authority under this
part may prefer an appeal to the
National Company Law Appellate
Tribunal. (2) Every appeal under sub­section
(1) shall be filed within thirty days
before the National Company Law
Appellate Tribunal: Provided that the National
Company Law Appellate Tribunal
may allow an appeal to be filed after
the expiry of the said period of thirty
days if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not filing the
appeal but such period shall not
exceed fifteen days. (3) An appeal against an order
approving a resolution plan under Section 31 may be filed on the
following grounds, namely— (i) the approved resolution plan
 is in contravention of the pro­
 visions of any law for the
 time being in force; (ii) there has been material ir­
 regularity in exercise of the
 powers by the resolution pro­
 fessional during the corpo­
 rate insolvency resolution pe­
 riod; (iii) the debts owed to opera­
 tional creditors of the corpo­
 rate debtor have not been
 provided for in the resolution
 plan in the manner specified
 by the Board; (iv) the insolvency resolution
 process costs have not been
 provided for repayment in
 priority to all other debts; or (v) the resolution plan does not
 comply with any other crite­
 ria specified by the Board. (4) An appeal against a liquidation
 order passed under Section 33 may
 be filed on grounds of material
 irregularity or fraud committed in
 relation to such a liquidation order.”

 “238­A. Limitation.—The provisions
 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of
 1963) shall, as far as may be, apply
 to the proceedings or appeals before
 the Adjudicating Authority, the
 National Company Law Appellate
 Tribunal, the Debt Recovery Tribunal
 or the Debt Recovery Appellate
 Tribunal, as the case may be.” 37. Perusal of the aforesaid would reveal, that though

the provisions of the Limitation Act , as far as may be, would

apply to the proceedings or appeals before the Adjudicating

Authority, NCLAT, the Debt Recovery Tribunal or the Debt

Recovery Appellate Tribunal, where a period of limitation for

initiation of proceedings is provided under any special or

local law, different from the period prescribed by the 42 Schedule, the provisions of Section 3 shall apply, as if such

period were the period prescribed by the Schedule. It would

further reveal, that for the purpose of determining any

period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or

application by any special or local law, the provisions

contained in sections 4 to 24 (inclusive) , shall apply only in

so far, and to the extent to which, they are not expressly

excluded by such special or local law. 38. An appeal is provided before NCLAT under sub­

section (1) of Section 61 of the I&B Code to any person,

who is aggrieved by the order of the Adjudicating Authority.

Sub­section (2) of Section 61 of the I&B Code provides, that

every appeal under sub­section (1) shall be filed within

thirty days before NCLAT. The proviso thereto further

provides, that NCLAT may allow an appeal to be filed after

the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied,

that there was sufficient cause for not filing the appeal.

However, such period shall not exceed fifteen days. 39. Since there is a period different from the one

which is prescribed by the Schedule to the Limitation Act ,

the limitation for an appeal would be governed by Section 43 61 of the I&B Code, which is a special statute. As such, an

appeal will have to be preferred within a period of thirty

days from the date on which the order was passed by NCLT.

However, if NCLAT is satisfied, that there was sufficient

cause for not filing the appeal within a period of thirty days,

it may allow an appeal to be filed within a further period of

fifteen days. As such, the normal period of limitation

prescribed under the I&B Code is thirty days, with a

provision for allowing the filing of an appeal within a further

period of fifteen days, if NCLAT is satisfied, that there was a

sufficient cause for not filing the appeal within thirty days. 40. In the present case, the dates are not in dispute.

The judgment of NCLT is dated 28.11.2019. As such, as per

Section 61(2) of the I&B Code, the appeal was required to be

filed on or prior to 28.12.2019. The appeal could have been

filed within a further period of fifteen days, if NCLAT was

satisfied, that there was sufficient cause for not filing the

appeal within a period of thirty days. As such, the said

period would come to an end on 12.1.2020. The certified

copy of the impugned judgment of NCLT was made available 44 on 18.12.2019. If the allowance for the said period is

granted, the appeal should have been preferred on or prior

to 2.2.2020. However, in the present case, the appeal is

filed on 18.2.2020. It is also not in dispute, that

immediately after the order was passed on 28.11.2019 by

NCLT, KIAL preferred a writ petition being Writ Petition (L)

No. 3621 of 2019 before the Division Bench of the Bombay

High Court on 11.12.2019. The said writ petition came to be

dismissed on 28.1.2020 on the ground, that KIAL had an

alternate and efficacious remedy available under Section 61

of the I&B Code and as such, it was relegated to the

alternate remedy available in law. 41. It is strenuously urged on behalf of all the

appellants except Fourth Dimension Solutions Ltd., that the

I&B Code is a complete code in itself, which also provides

for a period of limitation and as such, Section 14 of the

Limitation Act would not be available to KIAL. 42. On the contrary, it is urged on behalf of KIAL,

that since the order passed by NCLT was passed in utter

breach of the principles of natural justice, it had bona fide

filed a writ petition before the Division Bench of the Bombay 45 High Court. It is urged, that by an elaborate order the writ

petition came to be dismissed, on the ground of availability

of alternate remedy. It is therefore urged, that the

provisions of Section 14 or at least the principles laid down

therein, would be available to KIAL and as such, the

appeals, as filed will have to be held to be within limitation. 43. Therefore, the crucial question, that arises for

consideration, is as to whether the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act or the principles laid down therein

would be available to KIAL for exclusion of the period during

which it was prosecuting the writ petition before the

Division Bench of the Bombay High Court. 44. It will be relevant to refer to Section 14 of the

Limitation Act. “14. Exclusion of time of proceeding
 bona fide in court without
 jurisdiction.—(1) In computing the period
 of limitation for any suit the time during
 which the plaintiff has been prosecuting
 with due diligence another civil
 proceeding, whether in a court of first
 instance or of appeal or revision, against
 the defendant shall be excluded, where
 the proceeding relates to the same matter
 in issue and is prosecuted in good faith in 46 a court which, from defect of jurisdiction or
other cause of a like nature, is unable to
entertain it. (2) In computing the period of limitation for
any application, the time during which the
applicant has been prosecuting with due
diligence another civil proceeding, whether
in a court of first instance or of appeal or
revision, against the same party for the
same relief shall be excluded, where such
proceeding is prosecuted in good faith in a
court which, from defect of jurisdiction or
other cause of a like nature, is unable to
entertain it. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in
Rule 2 of Order XXIII of the Code of Civil
Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908), the provisions
of sub­section (1) shall apply in relation to
a fresh suit instituted on permission
granted by the court under Rule 1 of that
Order, where such permission is granted
on the ground that the first suit must fail
by reason of a defect in the jurisdiction of
the court or other cause of a like nature.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section,— (a) in excluding the time during
 which a former civil proceeding
 was pending, the day on which
 that proceeding was instituted
 and the day on which it ended
 shall both be counted; (b) a plaintiff or an applicant re­
 sisting an appeal shall be deemed
 to be prosecuting a proceeding; (c) misjoinder of parties or of
 causes of action shall be deemed
 to be a cause of a like nature with
 defect of jurisdiction.” 45. The conditions that are required to be fulfilled for

invoking the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act

have been succinctly spelt out in various judgments of this

Court including the one in Consolidated Engineering

Enterprises vs. Principal Secretary, Irrigation

Department and others23, which read thus: 23 (2008) 7 SCC 169 48 (4) The earlier proceeding and the
 latter proceeding must relate to the
 same matter in issue; and
 (5) Both the proceedings are in a
 court.” 46. Perusal of the aforesaid conditions would make it

amply clear, that one of the conditions that is required to be

fulfilled is that both the proceedings are in a court. The

question as to whether the provisions of Section 14 of the

Limitation Act would also be applicable to the quasi­judicial

forums as against the court, fell for consideration before

this Court in the case of M.P. Steel Corporation (supra). This Court after an elaborate survey of the various

judgments of this Court, including judgment in the cases of Bharat Bank Ltd., Delhi vs. Employees of the Bharat

Bank Ltd. , Delhi24, Town Municipal Council, Athani vs.

Presiding Officer, Labour Courts, Hubli and others etc.25, Nityananda M. Joshi and others vs. Life

Insurance Corporation of India and others26,

Commissioner of Sales Tax. U.P., Lucknow vs. Parson 24 AIR 1950 SC 188 = 1950 SCR 459
25 (1969) 1 SCC 873
26 (1969) 2 SCC 199 49 Tools and Plants, Kanpur27, Kerala State Electricity

Board, Trivandrum vs. T.P. Kunhaliumma28, Officer on Special Duty (Land Acquisition) and another vs. Shah

Manilal Chandulal and others29 and Consolidated

Engineering Enterprises (supra) held, that the word

“court” in Section 14 takes its colour from the preceding

words “civil proceedings”. It was therefore held, that the Limitation Act including Section 14 would not apply to

appeals filed before a quasi­judicial Tribunal. It was held,

that since the appeal as mentioned in Section 128 of the

Customs Act is not before a Court, the provisions of Section

14 would not be applicable. 47. All the authorities cited above, including Consolidated Engineering Enterprises (supra), have been

elaborately discussed in the judgment of this Court in the

case of M.P. Steel Corporation (supra) and therefore, we

refrain from burdening the present judgment by

reproducing the observations made in those judgments.

27 (1975) 4 SCC 22
28 (1976) 4 SCC 634
29 (1996) 9 SCC 414 50 48. This Court in M.P. Steel Corporation (supra)

further observed, that the judgment of this Court in the

case of Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. vs. Madan Lal

Das & Sons, Bareilly30 had not considered the law laid

down in Parson Tools and Plants (supra) and the other

judgments nor the aforesaid decisions were pointed out to

the Court and therefore, the said judgment in the case of Madan Lal Das & Sons (supra) was not an authority for

the proposition, that the Limitation Act would apply to

Tribunals. 49. After having held, that the Limitation Act ,

including Section 14 would not apply to appeals filed before

a quasi­judicial Tribunal, this Court in M.P. Steel

Corporation (supra) observed thus: The provisions of Sections 5 and 14 of
 the Limitation Act alike should, thus,
 be applied in a broadbased manner. When sub­section (2) of Section 14 of
 the Limitation Act per se is not
 applicable, the same would not mean
 that the principles akin thereto would
 not be applied. Otherwise, the
 provisions of Section 5 of the
 Limitation Act would apply. There
 cannot be any doubt whatsoever that
 the same would be applicable to a case
 of this nature. 17. There cannot furthermore be
 any doubt whatsoever that having
 regard to the definition of ‘suit’ as
 contained in Section 2(l) of the
 Limitation Act, a revision application
 will not answer the said description.
 But, although the provisions of Section
 14 of the Limitation Act per se are not
 applicable, in our opinion, the
 principles thereof would be applicable
 for the purpose of condonation of delay
 in filing an appeal or a revision
 application in terms of Section 5 thereof. 18. It is also now a well­settled
 principle of law that mentioning of a
 wrong provision or non­mentioning of
 any provision of law would, by itself, be
 not sufficient to take away the
 jurisdiction of a court if it is otherwise
 vested in it in law. While exercising its
 power, the court will merely consider
 whether it has the source to exercise
 such power or not. The court will not
 apply the beneficent provisions like Sections 5 and 14 of the Limitation Act
 in a pedantic manner. When the
 provisions are meant to apply and in
 fact found to be applicable to the facts
 and circumstances of a case, in our
 opinion, there is no reason as to why
 the court will refuse to apply the same
 only because a wrong provision has
 been mentioned. In a case of this
 nature, sub­section (2) of Section 14 of
 the Limitation Act per se may not be
 applicable, but, as indicated
 hereinbefore, the principles thereof
 would be applicable for the purpose of
 condonation of delay in terms of Section 5 thereof.’ 40. The Court further quoted
from Consolidated Engg. Enterprises [(2008) 7 SCC 169] an
instructive passage: ( Iric Sohan case [(2009) 12 SCC 175 : (2009) 4 SCC
(Civ) 656] , SCC p. 183, para 21)
 ‘21. In Consolidated Engg. Enterprises v. Irrigation Deptt . [(2008) 7 54 SCC 169] this Court held: (SCC p. 181,
para 22)
 ‘22. The policy of the section is to
 afford protection to a litigant against
 the bar of limitation when he
 institutes a proceeding which by
 reason of some technical defect
 cannot be decided on merits and is
 dismissed. While considering the
 provisions of Section 14 of the
 Limitation Act, proper approach will
 have to be adopted and the
 provisions will have to be
 interpreted so as to advance the
 cause of justice rather than abort
 the proceedings. It will be well to
 bear in mind that an element of
 mistake is inherent in the invocation
 of Section 14 . In fact, the section is
 intended to provide relief against the
 bar of limitation in cases of
 mistaken remedy or selection of a
 wrong forum. On reading Section 14 of the Act it becomes clear that the
 legislature has enacted the said
 section to exempt a certain period
 covered by a bona fide litigious
 activity. Upon the words used in the
 section, it is not possible to sustain
 the interpretation that the principle
 underlying the said section, namely,
 that the bar of limitation should not
 affect a person honestly doing his
 best to get his case tried on merits
 but failing because the court is
 unable to give him such a trial,
 would not be applicable to an 55 application filed under Section 34 of
 the 1996 Act. The principle is clearly
 applicable not only to a case in
 which a litigant brings his
 application in the court, that is, a
 court having no jurisdiction to
 entertain it but also where he brings
 the suit or the application in the
 wrong court in consequence of bona
 fide mistake or (sic of) law or defect
 of procedure. Having regard to the
 intention of the legislature this
 Court is of the firm opinion that the
 equity underlying Section 14 should
 be applied to its fullest extent and
 time taken diligently pursuing a
 remedy, in a wrong court, should be
 excluded.’
 See Shakti Tubes Ltd. v. State of
 Bihar [(2009) 1 SCC 786 : (2009) 1
 SCC (Civ) 370] .’ ” 50. Thus, this Court relying on the earlier judgments

in the cases of Bhudan Singh and another vs. Nabi Bux and another31, J. Kumaradasan Nair and another vs.

Iric Sohan and others32, and Consolidated Engineering

Enterprises (supra) observed, that the object of enacting

the legislation is to advance public welfare. The entire

legislative process is influenced by considerations of justice
31 (1969) 2 SCC 481
32 (2009) 12 SCC 175 56 and reason. Justice and reason constitute the great general

legislative intent in every piece of legislation. It has been

held by this Court, that in the absence of some other

indication that the harsh or ridiculous effect was actually

intended by the legislature, there is little reason to believe,

that it represents the legislative intent. It is further

observed, that the provisions contained in Sections 5 and 14 of the Limitation Act are meant for grant of relief, where

a person has committed some mistake. In J.

Kumaradasan Nair (supra), it has been observed, that

when sub­section (2) of Section 14 of the Limitation Act per

se is not applicable, the same would not mean, that the

principles akin thereto would not be applicable. 51. In Consolidated Engineering Enterprises (supra), it has been observed, that while considering the

provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, proper

approach will have to be adopted and the provisions will

have to be interpreted, so as to advance the cause of justice,

rather than abort the proceedings. It has been observed,

that an element of mistake is inherent in the invocation of 57 Section 14 . The section, in fact, is intended to provide a

relief against the bar of limitation in cases of mistaken

remedy or selection of a wrong forum. It has been observed,

that the legislature has enacted Section 14 to exempt a

certain period covered by a bona fide litigious activity. It

has been held, that the equity underlying Section 14 should

be applied to its fullest extent and time taken diligently

pursuing a remedy, in a wrong court, should be excluded.

It could thus be seen, that this Court has in unequivocal

terms held, that when a litigant bona fide under a mistake

litigates before a wrong forum, he would be entitled for

exclusion of the period, during which he was bona fide

prosecuting such a wrong remedy. Though strictly, the

provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act would not be

applicable to the proceedings before a quasi­judicial

Tribunal, however, the principles underlying the same

would be applicable i.e. the proper approach will have to be

of advancing the cause of justice, rather than to abort the

proceedings. 52. An argument similar to the one which is

advanced before us, that since the Code is a complete Code

in itself, the limitation as provided only under the Code

would govern the field and would exclude the application of

provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act was made in

the case of M.P. Steel Corporation (supra). While

considering this objection, this Court observed thus: Another feature, which is of direct
relevance in this case, is that for revision
petitions filed under the U.P. Sales Tax
Act a sufficiently long period of 18
months had been given beyond which it
was the policy of the legislature not to
extend limitation any further. This aspect
of Parson Tools [(1975) 4 SCC 22 : 1975
SCC (Tax) 185 : (1975) 3 SCR 743] has
been explained in Consolidated Engg.
[(2008) 7 SCC 169] in some detail by both
the main judgment as well as the
concurring judgment. In the latter
judgment, it has been pointed out that
there is a vital distinction between
extending time and condoning delay. Like Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, Section
128 of the Customs Act is a section which
lays down that delay cannot be condoned
beyond a certain period. Like Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, Section 128 of the
Customs Act does not lay down a long
period. In these circumstances, to infer
exclusion of Section 14 or the principles
contained in Section 14 would be unduly
harsh and would not advance the cause
of justice. It must not be forgotten as is
pointed out in the concurring judgment
in Consolidated Engg. [(2008) 7 SCC 169]
that: (SCC p. 193, para 54)
 ‘54. … Even when there is cause to
 apply Section 14 , the limitation period
 continues to be three months and not
 more, but in computing the limitation
 period of three months for the 60 application under Section 34(1) of the
 AC Act, the time during which the
 applicant was prosecuting such
 application before the wrong court is
 excluded, provided the proceeding in
 the wrong court was prosecuted bona
 fide, with due diligence. Western
 Builders [State of Goa v. Western
 Builders , (2006) 6 SCC 239] therefore
 lays down the correct legal position.’ 43. Merely because Parson Tools [(1975)
4 SCC 22 : 1975 SCC (Tax) 185 : (1975) 3
SCR 743] also dealt with a provision in a
tax statute does not make the ratio of the
said decision apply to a completely
differently worded tax statute with a
much shorter period of limitation— Section 128 of the Customs Act. Also, the
principle of Section 14 would apply not
merely in condoning delay within the
outer period prescribed for condonation
but would apply dehors such period for
the reason pointed out in Consolidated
Engg. [(2008) 7 SCC 169] above, being
the difference between exclusion of a
certain period altogether under Section
14 principles and condoning delay. As
has been pointed out in the said
judgment , when a certain period is
excluded by applying the principles
contained in Section 14 , there is no delay
to be attributed to the appellant and the
limitation period provided by the statute
concerned continues to be the stated
period and not more than the stated
period. We conclude, therefore, that the 61 principle of Section 14 which is a
 principle based on advancing the cause of
 justice would certainly apply to exclude
 time taken in prosecuting proceedings
 which are bona fide and with due
 diligence pursued, which ultimately end
 without a decision on the merits of the
 case.” 53. Perusal of the aforesaid would therefore reveal,

that the Court has clearly rejected the objection raised by

the Revenue in M.P. Steel Corporation (supra) which was

raised relying on the judgment of this Court in the case of

Parson Tools and Plants (supra). This Court observed,

that the time during which the applicant was prosecuting

such application before the wrong court can be excluded,

provided the proceeding in the wrong court was prosecuted

bona fide, with due diligence. This Court distinguished the

judgment in the case of Parson Tools and Plants (supra)

on the ground, that the period provided for filing a revision

under the U.P. Sales Tax Act was sufficiently long period of

18 months, beyond which it was the policy of the legislature

not to extend limitation any further. Relying on the 62 Consolidated Engineering Enterprises (supra), it has

been observed, that there is a vital distinction between

extending time and condoning delay. It was further

observed, that like Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the

period provided in Section 128 of the Customs Act did not

lay down a long period for preferring an appeal. As such, it

would be unduly harsh to exclude the principles contained

in Section 14 of the Limitation Act. Relying on Consolidated Engineering Enterprises (supra) it was

observed, that there is a difference between exclusion of a

certain period altogether under principles of Section 14 and

condoning the delay. It has been observed, that when a

certain period is excluded by applying the principles

contained in Section 14 , there is no delay to be attributed to

the appellant and the limitation period provided by the

statute concerned, continues to be the stated period and not

more than the stated period. It was therefore held, that the

principle of section 14 , which is a principle based on

advancing the cause of justice would certainly apply to

exclude time taken in prosecuting proceedings which are 63 bona fide and pursued with due diligence but which end

without a decision on the merits of the case. 54. Coming to the facts of the present case,

immediately after NCLT pronounced its judgment on

28.11.2019 and even before the certified copy was made

available on 18.12.2019, KIAL had filed writ petition before

the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court on

11.12.2019 on the principal ground, that the procedure

followed by NCLT was in breach of principles of natural

justice. Such a ground could be legitimately pursued before

a writ court. In that sense, it was not a proceeding before a

wrong court, as such. Perusal of the judgment and order

dated 28.1.2020, passed by the Division Bench of the

Bombay High Court, which dismissed the writ petition on

the ground of availability of alternate and equally efficacious

remedy would reveal, that the said writ petition was hotly

contested between the parties and by an order running into

32 pages, the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court

dismissed the petition relegating the petitioner therein (i.e.

KIAL) to avail of an alternate remedy available in law. 64 55. Perusal of the memo of the writ petition would

reveal, that the petitioner (i.e. KIAL) has specifically averred

thus in the petition: 56. It could therefore be seen, that the petitioner ­

KIAL has specifically stated, that though the application of

the petitioner was heard by a Member (Judicial), the order

was passed by a Division Bench consisting of Member

(Judicial) as well as Member (Technical). Perusal of the

grounds would further reveal, that a specific ground has

been taken, that the procedure adopted by NCLT was in

breach of principles of natural justice. 57. It will also be relevant to refer to paragraph 14 of

the Memo of the writ petition, which reads thus: 58. It could thus clearly be seen, that the petitioner

therein i.e. KIAL has specifically stated, that though it had

an alternate remedy of filing an appeal before NCLAT, since

the petition was not just about the merits of the impugned

order, but also in respect of functioning of the Tribunal the

petitioner was invoking the writ jurisdiction of the Court. 59. By now, it is a settled principle of law, that non­

exercise of jurisdiction by the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is not a hard and fast rule, but a rule of

self­restraint. As early as in 1969, in the case of Babu Ram

Prakash Chandra Maheshwari (supra), this Court

observed thus: 60. This Court further laid down two well recognized

exceptions to the doctrine with regard to the exhaustion of

statutory remedies, which reads thus: 61. It has been clearly held, that when the

proceedings invoked before a statutory authority are de hors

the jurisdiction or when they are in breach of principles of

natural justice, the party would be entitled to invoke the

jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the

Constitution. 62. Referring to earlier judgments, this Court in the

case of Whirlpool Corporation (supra) observed thus: “15. Under Article 226 of the
 Constitution, the High Court, having
 regard to the facts of the case, has a
 discretion to entertain or not to entertain
 a writ petition. But the High Court has
 imposed upon itself certain restrictions
 one of which is that if an effective and
 efficacious remedy is available, the High
 Court would not normally exercise its
 jurisdiction. But the alternative remedy 69 has been consistently held by this Court
 not to operate as a bar in at least three
 contingencies, namely, where the writ
 petition has been filed for the
 enforcement of any of the Fundamental
 Rights or where there has been a
 violation of the principle of natural justice
 or where the order or proceedings are
 wholly without jurisdiction or the vires of
 an Act is challenged. There is a plethora
 of case­law on this point but to cut down
 this circle of forensic whirlpool, we would
 rely on some old decisions of the
 evolutionary era of the constitutional law
 as they still hold the field.” 63. A similar view has been reiterated in the

judgment of this Court in the case of Nivedita Sharma vs.

Cellular Operators Association of India (supra). 64. In the present case, perusal of the writ petition

would reveal, that it was the specific case of KIAL, that its

application, objecting to the application of RP for approval of

the resolution plan was heard by a Member (Judicial),

whereas, the final orders were passed by a Bench consisting

of Member (Judicial) and Member (Technical). It has

specifically averred, that though an alternate remedy was

available to it, it was invoking the jurisdiction of the High

Court since the question involved was also with regard to 70 the manner in which the jurisdiction was exercised by

NCLT. It could thus be seen, that KIAL was bona fide

prosecuting the proceedings before the High Court in good

faith. Perusal of the dates referred to herein above would

also reveal, that KIAL was prosecuting the proceedings

before the High Court with due diligence. Even before the

availability of the certified copy, it had knocked the doors of

the High Court. The matter before the High Court was hotly

contested and ultimately, the petition was dismissed by an

elaborate judgment relegating KIAL to the alternate remedy

available to it in law. As such, the conditions which enable

a party to invoke the provisions of Section 14 of the

Limitation Act are very much available to KIAL. If the

period during which KIAL was bona fide prosecuting the

writ petition before the High Court and that too with due

diligence, is excluded applying the principles underlying Section 14 of the Limitation Act, the appeals filed before

NCLAT would be very much within the limitation. We find,

that KIAL would be entitled to exclusion of the period during 71 which it was bona fide prosecuting the remedy before the

High Court with due diligence. 65. That leaves us to consider the judgments referred

to by the appellants on the issue of limitation. 66. In the case of Popular Construction Co. (supra)

this Court was considering the question as to whether the

provisions of Section 5 of the Limitation Act are applicable

to an application challenging an award under Section 34 of

the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter

referred to as “the Arbitration Act ”). This Court observed

thus: 67. It must be noticed, that the judgment in the case

of Popular Construction Co. (supra) was considered by

this Court by a Bench consisting of three Judges in the case

of Consolidated Engineering Enterprises (supra) wherein,

the question with regard to applicability of Section 14 of the

Limitation Act to an application under Section 34(3) of the

Arbitration Act fell for consideration. In Consolidated

Engineering Enterprises (supra), the appellant before this

Court was an enterprise engaged in civil engineering

construction as well as development of infrastructure. It

entered into an agreement with the respondent for

construction of earthen bund, head sluices and the draft

channel of the Y.G. Gudda tank. A dispute arose between

the parties and therefore, the appellant invoked arbitration

Clause 51 of the agreement. The dispute was referred to the

sole arbitrator who passed his award in favour of the

appellant. Feeling aggrieved by the said award, the 73 respondents preferred an application to set aside the said

award as provided by Section 34 of the Arbitration Act in

the Court of the Civil Judge (Senior Division),

Ramanagaram, Bangalore Rural District, Bangalore.

However, it was realised by the respondents, that an

application for setting aside the award should have been

filed before the Principal District Judge, Bangalore District

(Rural). As such, an application was preferred by the

respondents in the Court of the Civil Judge (Senior

Division), Ramanagaram with a request to transfer the

application made for setting aside the award to the Court of

the Principal District Judge (Rural), Bangalore. 68. The Civil Judge (Senior Division), Ramanagaram

passed an order directing return of the suit records for

presentation before the proper court. The respondents

therefore collected the papers from the Court of the Civil

Judge (Senior Division), Ramanagaram and presented the

same in the Court of the Principal District Judge, Bangalore

(Rural). The District Court framed a preliminary issue, as to

whether the suit was barred by the limitation under Section 74 34(3) of the Arbitration Act. The District Judge held, the

application for setting aside the award to be time­barred.

The respondents invoked the appellate jurisdiction of the

High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore. The Division Bench

of the Karnataka High Court held, that the District Judge,

Bangalore had committed an error in holding, that Section

14 of the Limitation Act was not applicable to an application

submitted under Section 34 of the Act. It was therefore

held, that the time taken during which the respondents had

been prosecuting in the Court of the Civil Judge (Senior

Division), Ramanagaram was excludable. 69. Feeling aggrieved, the appellant had approached

this Court. Panchal, J. speaking for himself and

Balakrishna, C.J. (as their Lordships then were) observed

thus: 70. This Court clearly held, that the decision in the

case of the Popular Construction Co. (supra) cannot be

construed to mean as a ruling, that provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act are also not applicable to an

application challenging an award under Section 34 of the 77 Act. It has been held, that in the Arbitration Act , there is no

express provision excluding application of the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act to an application filed under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act for challenging the award.

It has further been found, that there is fundamental

distinction between the discretion to be exercised under Section 5 of the Limitation Act and exclusion of the time

provided in Section 14 of the said Act. It was held, that the

power to excuse delay and grant an extension of time under Section 5 is discretionary, whereas under Section 14 ,

exclusion of time is mandatory, if the requisite conditions

are satisfied. It held, that the effect of Section 14 is that in

order to ascertain what is the date of expiration of the

“prescribed period”, the days excluded from operating by

way of limitation, have to be added to what is primarily the

period of limitation prescribed. 71. Raveendran, J. (as His Lordship then was) in his

concurring judgment observed thus: 72. In paragraph 57, Raveendran, J. also observed,

that the decision in Popular Construction Co. (supra) did

not consider the applicability of Section 14 of the Limitation

Act to an application under Section 34 of the Arbitration

Act. 73. As such, in view of the judgment of three Judges

Bench of this Court in the case of Consolidated

Engineering Enterprises (supra), the reliance placed by

the appellants on the judgment of this Court in Popular

Construction Co. (supra) would not be of any assistance. 74. Reliance is also placed on the judgment of this

Court in the case of Singh Enterprises (supra) wherein, the

question raised was with regard to applicability of the

provisions of Section 5 of the Limitation Act to an appeal

filed under Section 35 of the Central Excise Act, 1944.

Again , the said judgment deals with applicability of Section

5 and not of Section 14 of the Limitation Act and therefore

would not support the case of the appellants. 75. Similarly, reliance placed by the learned counsel

for the appellants on the judgment of this Court in the case

of Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise vs.

Hongo India Private Limited and another33, would also

not help the appellants inasmuch as, the question, that fell

for consideration there was, with regard to the applicability

of Section 5 of the Limitation Act to a reference application
33 (2009) 5 SCC 791 80 provided under Section 35­H(1) of the unamended Central

Excise Act, 1944 . 76. For the same reasons, the judgment of this Court

in the case of Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board (supra) would also not take the case of the appellants any

further inasmuch as, again the question, that fell for

consideration was, with regard to applicability of Section 5 of the Limitation Act to an appeal under Section 125 of the

Electricity Act, 2003. 77. For the same reasons, we find, that the judgment

relied on by the appellants in the case of Bengal Chemists

and Druggists Association vs. Kalyan Chowdhury34 would also not be applicable to the facts of the present case

inasmuch as , the said judgment also considered the

applicability of Section 5 of the Limitation Act to an appeal

to the Appellate Tribunal provided under Section 421(3) and 433 of the Companies Act, 2013. 78. The judgment of this Court in the case of Neeraj

Jhanji (supra) would not be applicable to the facts of the

present case. In the said case, the petitioner had initially

34 (2018) 3 SCC 41 81 filed a writ petition before the Delhi High Court against the

order­in­original passed by the Commissioner of Customs,

Kanpur. Delhi High Court converted the writ petition into a

statutory appeal under the Customs Act, 1962 by order

dated 9­11­2009. On 9­9­2010 the Revenue raised an

objection about the territorial jurisdiction of that Court. On

5­1­2012 the petitioner withdrew the appeal with liberty to

approach the jurisdictional High Court and then filed a

statutory appeal before the Allahabad High Court after a

delay of 697 days. It will be relevant to refer to the following

observations in Neeraj Jhanji (supra): “32. There is another reason why the
 benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act
 cannot be extended to the appellants. All
 of them are well conversant with various
 statutory provisions including FEMA.
 One of them was declared a notified
 person under Section 3(2) of the Special
35 (2006) 6 SCC 239 84 Court (Trial of Offences Relating to
Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 and
several civil and criminal cases are
pending against him. The very fact that
they had engaged a group of eminent
advocates to present their cause before
the Delhi and the Bombay High Courts
shows that they have the assistance of
legal experts and this seems to be the
reason why they invoked the jurisdiction
of the Delhi High Court and not of the
Bombay High Court despite the fact that
they are residents of Bombay and have
been contesting other matters including
the proceedings pending before the
Special Court at Bombay. It also appears
that the appellants were sure that
keeping in view their past conduct, the
Bombay High Court may not interfere
with the order of the Appellate Tribunal.
Therefore, they took a chance before the
Delhi High Court and succeeded in
persuading the learned Single Judge of
the Court to entertain their prayer for
stay of further proceedings before the
Appellate Tribunal. The promptness with
which the learned Senior Counsel
appearing for the appellant, Kartik K.
Parekh made a statement before the
Delhi High Court on 7­11­2007 that the
writ petition may be converted into an
appeal and considered on merits is a
clear indication of the appellant's
unwillingness to avail remedy before the
High Court i.e. the Bombay High Court
which had the exclusive jurisdiction to 85 entertain an appeal under Section 35 of
the Act. 33. It is not possible to believe that as on
7­11­2007, the appellants and their
advocates were not aware of the judgment
of this Court in Ambica
Industries v. CCE [(2007) 6 SCC 769]
whereby dismissal of the writ petition by
the Delhi High Court on the ground of
lack of territorial jurisdiction was
confirmed and it was observed that the
parties cannot be allowed to indulge in
forum shopping. It has not at all
surprised us that after having made a
prayer that the writ petitions filed by
them be treated as appeals under Section
35, two of the appellants filed
applications for recall of that order. No
doubt, the learned Single Judge accepted
their prayer and the Division Bench
confirmed the order of the learned Single
Judge but the manner in which the
appellants prosecuted the writ petitions
before the Delhi High Court leaves no
room for doubt that they had done so
with the sole object of delaying
compliance with the direction given by
the Appellate Tribunal and by no stretch
of imagination it can be said that they
were bona fide prosecuting remedy before
a wrong forum. Rather, there was total
absence of good faith, which is sine qua
non for invoking Section 14 of the
Limitation Act.” 86 82. It is thus clear, that the appellants therein were

indulging into a practice of taking chances. They had

approached Delhi High Court, which totally lacked

territorial jurisdiction and had not approached Bombay

High Court though they were residents of Bombay and had

been contesting other matters including the proceedings

pending before the Special Court at Bombay. It has been

observed, that keeping in view their past conduct, Bombay

High Court might not have interfered with the order of the

Appellate Tribunal. Therefore, they took a chance before

Delhi High Court and succeeded in persuading the learned

Single Judge of that Court to entertain their prayer for stay

of further proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal. This

Court further observed, that the promptness with which the

statement was made on behalf of the appellants, that the

writ petition may be converted into an appeal was a clear

indication of the appellant's unwillingness to avail remedy

before the High Court of Bombay which had the exclusive

jurisdiction to entertain an appeal under Section 35 of the

Act. 83. In the present case, the facts are totally contrary.

KIAL had approached the High Court of Bombay making a

specific grievance, that NCLT had adopted a procedure

which was in breach of the principles of natural justice. It is

specifically mentioned in the writ petition, that though an

alternate remedy was available to it, it was approaching the

High Court since the issue with regard to functioning of

NCLT also fell for consideration. The proceedings before

the High Court were hotly contested and by an elaborate

judgment, the High Court dismissed the writ petition

relegating the petitioner therein i.e. KIAL to an alternate

remedy available in law. It is thus apparently clear, that

KIAL was bona fide prosecuting a remedy before the High

Court in good faith and with due diligence. In a given case,

the High Court could have exercised jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution inasmuch as, the grievance

was regarding procedure followed by NCLT to be in breach

of principles of natural justice. That would come within the

limited area earmarked by this Court for exercise of 88 extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 despite

availability of an alternate remedy. 84. This Court recently in the judgment of Embassy

Property Developments Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Karnataka

and Others36 had an occasion to consider a similar issue.

We find it apposite to refer to the question framed by this

Court, which reads thus: 85. It will also be apposite to reproduce the answer

given by this Court. “47. Therefore, in fine, our answer to the
 first question would be that NCLT did not
 have jurisdiction to entertain an
 application against the Government of
 Karnataka for a direction to execute
 Supplemental Lease Deeds for the
 extension of the mining lease. Since
 NCLT chose to exercise a jurisdiction not
 vested in it in law, the High Court of
36 2019 SCC Online 1542 89 Karnataka was justified in entertaining
 the writ petition, on the basis that NCLT
 was coram non judice.”

 We therefore have no hesitation to hold, that KIAL

was entitled to extension of the period during which it was

bona fide prosecuting a remedy before the High Court with

due diligence. (ii) WHETHER THERE WAS WAIVER AND

ACQUIESCENCE BY KIAL SO AS TO ESTOP IT FROM

CHALLENGING THE PARTICIPATION OF KALPRAJ? 86. It is strenuously urged on behalf of the

appellants, that under clause 10.4 of the Process

Memorandum, if any Resolution Plan is received by RP from

any eligible applicant(s) at any stage of the Resolution Plan

Process, RP is free to examine any resolution plan with the

approval of CoC and the applicant will not have any right to

object to the submission or consideration of such plan. It is

further submitted, that even under clause 11.2 of the

Process Memorandum, RP or CoC, at their sole discretion,

may request for additional information/documents and/or

seek clarification from the resolution applicant after the due 90 date for submission of the plan. It is further submitted,

that delay in submission of additional information and/or

documents sought by RP, CoC or the Process Manager

would entitle RP, CoC or the Process Manager to reject the

resolution plan. 87. It was further submitted by the appellants, that

KIAL, in a letter submitted along with the resolution plan to

RP, had expressly waived any and all claims with respect to

the Resolution Plan Process. Not only that, but KIAL had

submitted its revised plans twice after Kalpraj was

permitted to participate in the proceedings. It is therefore

submitted, that since KIAL had expressly waived all its

claims and had also submitted its revised plans, after

Kalpraj entered into the fray, it was not entitled to raise any

grievance. It is submitted, that the principles of waiver and

acquiescence are squarely applicable in the present case.

It was also submitted on behalf of the appellants, that the

revised plans, submitted by KIAL, were submitted without

mentioning, that it was without prejudice and as such, it

was not entitled to make any grievance on that count. 91 88. It is submitted, that the approach adopted by

KIAL amounted to taking chances, as after having failed in

the process, challenging the same would not be permissible

in law. It is also contended that during the 12 th meeting of

CoC, Kotak Bank, of which KIAL is a 100% subsidiary, also

agreed with CoC counsel’s view, that Kalpraj’s resolution

plan can be considered. 89. It could thus be seen, that the main thrust of the

arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants with regard

to waiver and acquiescence is on two grounds, viz., (i) clause

10.4 of the Process Memorandum read with paragraph 5(b)

of the covering letter for submission of resolution plan by

KIAL, and (ii) participation of KIAL in the process after

Kalpraj was permitted to participate in the process. 90. We may refer to clause 10.4 of the Process

Memorandum and paragraph 5(b) of the covering letter for

submission of resolution plan by KIAL, which read thus: 91. On the basis of clause 10.4, it is sought to be

urged, that even if the Resolution Plan is received by RP

from any eligible applicant(s) at any stage of the Resolution

Plan Process, RP was free to examine such Resolution Plan

with the approval of CoC and the applicant(s) will not have 93 any right to object to submission or consideration of such

plan. 92. On the basis of paragraph 5(b) of the covering

letter for submission of resolution plan by KIAL, it is sought

to be urged, that KIAL had unconditionally and irrevocably

agreed and accepted the terms of the Process Memorandum

and the decision made by CoC, RP and/or the Adjudicating

Authority in respect of any matter with respect to, or arising

out of, the Process Memorandum and the Resolution Plan

Process. It is further sought to be urged, that KIAL had

agreed to surrender all and any of its claim in respect of the

Resolution Plan Process. It is sought to be urged, that this

stipulation amounts to a concluded contract between the

parties and having waived its all claims, KIAL is not

permitted in law to challenge the participation of Kalpraj in

respect of Resolution Plan Process. 93. In this respect, it will be relevant to refer to

paragraphs 89 and 90 of the judgment of this Court in the

case of Central Inland Water Transport Corporation 94 Limited and another vs. Brojo Nath Ganguly and

another37. “89. Should then our courts not
 advance with the times? Should they
 still continue to cling to outmoded
 concepts and outworn ideologies? Should we not adjust our thinking
 caps to match the fashion of the day? Should all jurisprudential development
 pass us by, leaving us floundering in
 the sloughs of 19th century theories?
 Should the strong be permitted to push
 the weak to the wall? Should they be
 allowed to ride roughshod over the
 weak? Should the courts sit back and
 watch supinely while the strong
 trample underfoot the rights of the
 weak? We have a Constitution for our
 country. Our judges are bound by their
 oath to “uphold the Constitution and
 the laws”. The Constitution was
 enacted to secure to all the citizens of
 this country social and economic
 justice. Article 14 of the Constitution
 guarantees to all persons equality
 before the law and the equal protection
 of the laws. The principle deducible
 from the above discussions on this part
 of the case is in consonance with right
 and reason, intended to secure social
 and economic justice and conforms to
 the mandate of the great equality
 clause in Article 14. This principle is

37 (1986) 3 SCC 156 95 that the courts will not enforce and
will, when called upon to do so, strike
down an unfair and unreasonable
contract, or an unfair and
unreasonable clause in a contract,
entered into between parties who are
not equal in bargaining power. It is
difficult to give an exhaustive list of all
bargains of this type. No court can
visualize the different situations which
can arise in the affairs of men. One can
only attempt to give some illustrations.
For instance, the above principle will
apply where the inequality of
bargaining power is the result of the
great disparity in the economic
strength of the contracting parties. It
will apply where the inequality is the
result of circumstances, whether of the
creation of the parties or not. It will
apply to situations in which the weaker
party is in a position in which he can
obtain goods or services or means of
livelihood only upon the terms imposed
by the stronger party or go without
them. It will also apply where a
man has no choice, or rather no
meaningful choice, but to give his
assent to a contract or to sign on
the dotted line in a prescribed or
standard form or to accept a set of
rules as part of the contract,
however unfair, unreasonable and
unconscionable a clause in that
contract or form or rules may be. This principle, however, will not apply
where the bargaining power of the 96 contracting parties is equal or almost
 equal. This principle may not apply
 where both parties are businessmen
 and the contract is a commercial
 transaction. In today's complex world
 of giant corporations with their vast
 infrastructural organizations and with
 the State through its instrumentalities
 and agencies entering into almost every
 branch of industry and commerce,
 there can be myriad situations which
 result in unfair and unreasonable
 bargains between parties possessing
 wholly disproportionate and unequal
 bargaining power. These cases can
 neither be enumerated nor fully
 illustrated. The court must judge each
 case on its own facts and
 circumstances.”
 [emphasis supplied] 94. This Court has held, that the courts will not

enforce and will, when called upon to do so, strike down an

unfair and unreasonable contract, or an unfair and

unreasonable clause in a contract, entered into between

parties who are not equal in bargaining power. It has been

held, that this principle will apply where a man has no

choice, or rather no meaningful choice, but to give his

assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a 97 prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of rules as

part of the contract, however unfair, unreasonable and

unconscionable a clause in that contract or form or rules

may be. 95. Applying the said principles to the facts of the

present case, KIAL had no choice than to accept the terms

of the contract. Paragraph 5(b) of the letter is a part of a

covering letter format, which is provided in the Process

Memorandum itself. The covering letter is in Format I and

the party desiring to participate in the Resolution Plan

Process has no other option, than to sign the dotted lines.

Hence, the parties cannot be said to have equal bargaining

power and the applicants have no other choice than to sign

on the documents prescribed in the format. Paragraph 5(b)

of the covering letter format, requires a party to undertake,

that it will accept all the decisions made by CoC, RP and/or

the Adjudicating Authority and that the decisions taken will

be binding on it. It also requires the applicant, to sign on

the document thereby, providing expressly waiving any and

all claims with respect to the Resolution Plan Process. In 98 turn, it provides for a party to agree to a stipulation, that

even if RP or CoC acts in any manner, which is not

permissible in law, still the resolution applicant would be

bound by such a decision and shall waive any or all its

claims in respect of the Resolution Plan Process. 96. The said principle of law has been subsequently

followed in various judgments of this Court including the

one in the case of Assistant General Manager and others

vs. Radhey Shyam Pandey38 . 97. No doubt, that this Court in Central Inland

Water Transport Corporation Limited (supra) has

observed, that the principle laid down therein may not apply

where both parties are businessmen and the contract is a

commercial transaction. In the first place, RP and the

resolution applicant cannot be said to be the contracting

parties having equal bargaining power. Secondly, since RP

functions under the I&B Code for discharging the duties

bestowed upon him and assisting the process for

finalization of resolution plan for survival of the Corporate

38 (2020) 6 SCC 438 99 Debtor, it cannot be said that it is a purely commercial

transaction between RP and the resolution applicant. 98. It may be argued, that the judgment in the case

of Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited (supra) arose from a case involving a statutory corporation,

which was an instrumentality of State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. However, recently, this Court

in the case of Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure

Limited vs. Govindan Raghavan39 while construing the

term of contract between a builder and a flat purchaser

observed thus: 99. We see no reason, as to why the said principle

should not be applicable when RP and CoC are acting under

the statutory provisions under the Code. 100. We are therefore of the view, in light of the law laid down in Central Inland Water Transport

Corporation Limited (supra), KIAL cannot be held to be

bound by such unconscionable clause in the letter, which is

in a prescribed format. 101. The second ground raised, with regard to waiver

and acquiescence, is based upon the participation of KIAL

in the Resolution Plan Process after Kalpraj was permitted

to participate in the proceedings. 102. The word ‘waiver’ has been described in

Halsbury’s Laws of England, 4th Edn., Para 1471, which

reads thus: “1471. Waiver.—Waiver is the
 abandonment of a right in such a
 way that the other party is entitled
 to plead the abandonment by way of
 confession and avoidance if the right
 is thereafter asserted, and is either
 express or implied from conduct. …
 A person who is entitled to rely on a
 stipulation, existing for his benefit 101 alone, in a contract or of a statutory
 provision, may waive it, and allow
 the contract or transaction to
 proceed as though the stipulation or
 provision did not exist. Waiver of
 this kind depends upon consent,
 and the fact that the other party has
 acted on it is sufficient
 consideration. …
 It seems that, in general, where
 one party has, by his words or
 conduct, made to the other a
 promise or assurance which was
 intended to affect the legal relations
 between them and to be acted on
 accordingly, then, once the other
 party has taken him at his word and
 acted on it, so as to alter his
 position, the party who gave the
 promise or assurance cannot
 afterwards be allowed to revert to
 the previous legal relationship as if
 no such promise or assurance had
 been made by him, but he must
 accept their legal relations subject to
 the qualification which he has
 himself so introduced, even though
 it is not supported in point of law by
 any consideration.’
 (See Halsbury's Laws of England,
 4th Edn., Para 1471.)” 103. In Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol. 16(2), 4th

Edn., Para 907, it is stated: 104. For considering, as to whether a party has waived

its rights or not, it will be relevant to consider the conduct

of a party. For establishing waiver, it will have to be

established, that a party expressly or by its conduct acted in

a manner, which is inconsistent with the continuance of its

rights. However, the mere acts of indulgence will not 103 amount to waiver. A party claiming waiver would also not

be entitled to claim the benefit of waiver, unless it has

altered its position in reliance on the same. 105. As early as in 1957 in the case of Manak Lal vs.

Dr. Prem Chand40 an advocate was held guilty for

professional misconduct by a Tribunal of Three Members.

The matter was argued before the High Court. An objection

was taken before the High Court, that one of the members

had appeared on behalf of the complainant and therefore,

he was disqualified from acting as a member of the

Tribunal. A question arose before this Court, that since

such an objection was not taken before the Tribunal,

whether it amounted to waiver. This Court observed thus: 106. It has been held, that a waiver cannot always and

in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party

to take the objection. Waiver can be inferred, only if and

after it is shown that the party knew about the relevant

facts and was aware of his right to take the objection in

question. The waiver or acquiescence, like election,

presupposes, that the person to be bound is fully cognizant

of his rights, and that being so, he neglects to enforce them,

or chooses one benefit instead of another. 107. As such, for applying the principle of waiver, it

will have to be established, that though a party was aware

about the relevant facts and the right to take an objection,

he has neglected to take such an objection. 108. In the case of Krishna Bahadur vs. Purna

Theatre and others41, the appellant was appointed in the

post of messenger­cum­bearer in the establishment of the
41 (2004) 8 SCC 229 105 respondent. A disciplinary proceeding was initiated against

him wherein, he was found guilty and he was dismissed

from service. The Industrial Tribunal set aside the

dismissal with full back wages and compensation. The

appellant was permitted to join his duties but back wages

were not paid. He was again retrenched from services and a

sum of Rs.9,030/­ was paid as retrenchment compensation,

which the appellant was said to have received under

protest. A trade union took the cause of the appellant, inter

alia, on the ground of contravention of Section 25 ­ G of the

Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , so also on the ground of

insufficiency of the amount of compensation paid to the

appellant in terms of Section 25 ­F(b) thereof. An industrial

dispute was raised before the Assistant Labour

Commissioner, which failed, whereupon the Industrial

Tribunal was approached by the appellant. In the

meantime, the appellant had also initiated a proceeding

under Section 33­C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 which ended in an amicable settlement, according to which, 106 the appellant agreed to receive a sum of Rs.39,000/­ as full

and final settlement. 109. However, in the proceedings initiated by the trade

union, the retrenchment was held to be illegal and he was

directed to be deemed to be in continuous service with all

benefits. A writ petition was filed by the respondent before

the High Court. The said writ petition was dismissed by the

single judge of the High Court, upholding the findings of the

Tribunal. In an appeal before the Division bench, a plea

was taken for the first time, that the workman had accepted

the amount paid by the employer and as such, it amounted

to waiver by the workman. The Division Bench allowed the

appeal and set aside the award passed by the Tribunal and

the judgment and order passed by the single judge. Setting

aside the judgment of the Division Bench, this Court

observed thus: Whenever waiver is pleaded it is for the
 party pleading the same to show that
 an agreement waiving the right in
 consideration of some compromise
 came into being. Statutory right,
 however, may also be waived by his
 conduct.” 110. This Court has thus held, that the principle of

waiver although is akin to the principle of estoppel; estoppel

is not a cause of action and is a rule of evidence, whereas

waiver is contractual and may constitute a cause of action.

It is an agreement between the parties and a party fully

knowing of its rights has agreed not to assert a right for a

consideration. It is further held, that whenever waiver is

pleaded, it is for the party pleading the same to show that

an agreement waiving the right in consideration of some

compromise came into being. 111. This Court in the case of State of Punjab vs.

Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar and others 42 had an

occasion to consider an issue, as to when an issue of bias

was not raised by the party at the earliest possible, if it is

aware of it and knows its right to raise the said issue, would

it amount to waiver or not. This Court while considering the

earlier judgments observed thus: ( Vide Dawsons Bank Ltd. v. Nippon
Menkwa Kabushiki Kaisha [(1934­35)
62 IA 100 : AIR 1935 PC
79] , Basheshar Nath v. CIT [ AIR 1959
SC 149] , Mademsetty
Satyanarayana v. G. Yelloji Rao [ AIR
1965 SC 1405] , Associated Hotels of
India Ltd. v. S.B. Sardar Ranjit
Singh [AIR 1968 SC
933] , Jaswantsingh
Mathurasingh v. Ahmedabad Municipal
Corpn. [1992 Supp (1) SCC 5] , Sikkim 111 Subba Associates v. State of
Sikkim [(2001) 5 SCC 629 : AIR 2001
SC 2062] and Krishna
Bahadur v. Purna Theatre [(2004) 8
SCC 229 : 2004 SCC (L&S) 1086 : AIR
2004 SC 4282] .) 42. This Court in Municipal Corpn. of Greater Bombay v. Dr Hakimwadi
Tenants' Assn. [1988 Supp SCC 55 : There is no specific plea of waiver,
 acquiescence or estoppel, much less
 a plea of abandonment of right. That
 apart, the question of waiver really
 does not arise in the case. Admittedly, the tenants were not
 parties to the earlier proceedings. There is, therefore, no question of
 waiver of rights by Respondents 4­7 112 nor would this disentitle the tenants
 from maintaining the writ petition.” 43. Thus, from the above, it is
 apparent that the issue of bias should
 be raised by the party at the earliest, if
 it is aware of it and knows its right to
 raise the issue at the earliest,
 otherwise it would be deemed to have
 been waived. However, it is to be kept
 in mind that acquiescence, being a
 principle of equity must be made
 applicable where a party knowing all
 the facts of bias, etc. surrenders to the
 authority of the Court/Tribunal
 without raising any objection. Acquiescence, in fact, is sitting by,
 when another is invading the rights. The acquiescence must be such as to
 lead to the inference of a licence
 sufficient to create rights in other
 party.” 112. Thus, for constituting acquiescence or waiver it

must be established, that though a party knows the

material facts and is conscious of his legal rights in a given

matter, but fails to assert its rights at the earliest possible

opportunity, it creates an effective bar of waiver against

him. Whereas, acquiescence would be a conduct where a

party is sitting by, when another is invading his rights. The 113 acquiescence must be such as to lead to the inference of a

licence sufficient to create a new right in the defendant.

Waiver is an intentional relinquishment of a right. It

involves conscious abandonment of an existing legal right,

advantage, benefit, claim or privilege. It is an agreement not

to assert a right. There can be no waiver unless the person

who is said to have waived, is fully informed as to his rights

and with full knowledge about the same, he intentionally

abandons them. 113. In the case of Galada power and

Telecommunication limited vs. United India Insurance

Company Limited and another43, this Court had an

occasion to consider the question, as to whether the insurer

has waived its right on the basis of claim hit by clause

relating to duration. 114. On the facts, holding, that the case was a case of

waiver, this Court observed thus: 115. In the background of this legal position, we will

have to examine, as to whether the conduct of KIAL can be

said to be of such a nature, which would amount to

acquiescence or waiver. 116. The dates are not in dispute. As per the

invitation of EOI published on 9.7.2018, the last date for

submission of EOI was 8.8.2018. The first Form ‘G’ was

also issued on 9.7.2018, according to which, the last date

for submission of resolution plan was 21.9.2018. KIAL had 115 submitted its EOI on 7.8.2018. First Process Memorandum

was issued on 17.8.2018. However, since there was no

response, four more Form ‘G’ were issued on various dates.

The last of such Form ‘G’ was issued on 11.12.2018,

according to which the last date for submission of resolution

plan was 8.1.2019. KIAL submitted its resolution plan on

8.1.2019. Subsequently, Kalpraj submitted its resolution

plan on 27.1.2019. 117. On KIAL coming to know about the same, on

29.1.2019 itself, it had sent an email protesting to RP

against acceptance of belated resolution plan of Kalpraj.

The said email dated 29.1.2019 sent by KIAL to RP reads

thus: On 1.2.2019, left with no choice, KIAL submitted its revised

resolution plan. 120. On 10.2.2019, KIAL sent another email to RP,

which reads thus: 121. In the said email dated 10.2.2019 sent by KIAL, it

was stated, that it has been quite sometime, that it had

sought a response from RP on his decision to accept

another resolution plan well after the expiry of the deadline

for submission of the same. It was reiterated, that such an

action, after opening of the bids and having detailed

discussions on the same was not only prejudicial to its

interest but against the spirit of the I&B Code. It was

reiterated, that the I&B Code, provides equal treatment to

all potential resolution applicants within the framework of

law and fixes personal responsibilities upon CoC members 119 and RPs in the event of instances of discrimination or

departure from the established law. 122. Perusal of the record would reveal, that RP had

replied to KIAL by email dated 11.2.2019. It was stated in

the said email, that his act of acceptance of resolution

plans, submitted after the due date, was under the overall

supervision of CoC and as per the opinion given by CoC’s

legal counsel and RP’s legal counsel. It was also submitted,

that this was in the spirit of value maximisation of assets of

the Corporate Debtor. 123. It is in dispute, as to whether RP had again

directed KIAL and Kalpraj vide email dated 11.2.2019 to

submit revised plan. It is asserted on behalf of the KIAL,

that such email was received by it, whereas it is denied by

RP. In any event, it is not in dispute, that both KIAL and

Kalpraj submitted their revised plans on 12.2.2019. 124. On 13/14.2.2019, the resolution plan of Kalpraj

was accepted by CoC. On 18.2.2019, RP filed M.A. No.691

of 2019 before NCLT for approval of the resolution plan of

Kalpraj. KIAL filed its M.A. No. 1039 of 2019 on 14.3.2019 120 before the Adjudicating Authority objecting to the approval

of resolution plan of Kalpraj. 125. It could thus be clearly seen, that KIAL had

raised its objection immediately after the Kalpraj submitted

its resolution plan. Not only that, but, it had also reiterated

its objection to the participation of Kalpraj. Insofar as,

submission of amended plans is concerned, it had no other

option than to submit its revised plan. This is specifically

so in view of clause 11.2, which reads thus: “11.2 No change or supplemental
 information to the
 Resolution Plan shall be
 accepted after the
 Resolution Plan Due Date,
 unless agreed otherwise by
 the Resolution Professional
 (in consultation with the
 Committee of Creditors). The Resolution Professional
 or the CoC may, at their sole
 discretion, request for
 additional
 information/document
 and/or seek clarifications
 from a Resolution Applicant
 after the Resolution Plan
 Due Date. Delay in
 submission of additional
 information and/or
 documents sought by the
 Resolution Professional, the 121 CoC or the Process Manager
 shall make the Resolution
 Plan liable for rejection.” 126. It is thus clear that, had KIAL not responded to

the email of RP and submitted its revised plan, it had to run

the risk of being out of fray. 127. Dr. Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on

behalf of Kalpraj relied on the judgment of this Court in the

case of ITC Limited vs. Blue Coast Hotels Limited and

others (supra), wherein it is held, that even if a debtor has

used the word “without prejudice” it has no significance.

However, in the said case, the debtor had acknowledged the

debt even after action was initiated under the Act and even

after payment of a smaller sum. In this background, it was

held, that the words “without prejudice” would have no

significance. As such, the said case would not be applicable

to the facts of the present case. 128. Reliance placed on the judgment of this Court in

the case of Tarapore and Company (supra) would also not

be of any assistance to the case of the appellants. It will be 122 relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court

in the said case. “Apart from the technical meaning
 which the expression “without
 prejudice” carries depending upon the
 context in which it is used, in the
 present case on a proper reading of the
 correspondence and in the setting in
 which the term is used, it only means
 that the respondent reserved to itself
 the right to contend before the
 arbitrator that a dispute raised or the
 claim made by the contractor was not
 covered by the arbitration clause. No
 other meaning can be assigned to it. An action taken without prejudice to
 one's right cannot necessarily mean
 that the entire action can be ignored by
 the party taking the same.” 129. That leaves us with the last submission in this

regard made on behalf of the appellants. It is submitted,

that Kotak Bank had participated in the 12 th meeting of CoC

dated 13.1.2019 and agreed to consider resolution plan of

Kalpraj in view of clause 10.4 of the Process Memorandum.

It is submitted, that KIAL was a 100% subsidiary of Kotak

Bank and as such, its agreement to consider the resolution

plan of Kalpraj would amount to waiver and acquiescence

by KIAL. 130. This question has been squarely answered by this

Court in the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV

vs. Union of India and another44. It will be apposite to

refer to the following observation of this Court: 131. In view of the aforesaid observation, the objection

in this regard deserves to be rejected. 132. Taking into consideration the fact, that KIAL had

objected to participation of any other applicant submitting

plan after the due date as per the last Form ‘G’ and also

44 (2012) 6 SCC 613 124 reiterated its objection, we are of the considered view, that it

cannot be held, that having participated by submitting the

revised plans, KIAL is estopped from challenging the process

on the ground of acquiescence and waiver. Merely because,

the revised plans are not submitted with the words “without

prejudice”, in our view, would not make any difference. As

already discussed hereinabove, KIAL had no other option

than to submit its revised plans in view of clause 11.2 of the

Process Memorandum. Inasmuch as, had it not responded,

it had to run the risk of being out of fray. As already

discussed hereinabove, the conduct of the party is relevant

for considering, whether it can be held, that a case is made

out of waiver or acquiescence. 133. None of the appellants have been in a position to

establish, that KIAL had given up/surrendered its rights to

take recourse to the legal remedies. In any case, the

appellants had also not been in a position to establish, that

on account of any such waiver or acquiescence any of the

appellants had altered their position to their detriment. 125 134. As such, it cannot be held, that KIAL had waived

or acquiesced its rights to challenge the decision of RP or

CoC. (iii) WHETHER NCLAT WAS RIGHT IN LAW IN

INTERFERING WITH THE DECISION OF COC OF

ACCEPTING THE RESOLUTION PLAN OF KALPRAJ? 135. For deciding the said issue, it will be apposite to

refer to Section 30 and 31 of the I&B Code, which read

thus: Explanation 1.—For the removal of
doubts, it is hereby clarified that a
distribution in accordance with the
provisions of this clause shall be fair
and equitable to such creditors. Explanation 2.—For the purposes
of this clause, it is hereby declared
that on and from the date of com­
mencement of the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act,
2019 , the provisions of this clause
shall also apply to the corporate in­
solvency resolution process of a cor­
porate debtor— 127 (i) where a resolution plan has not
 been approved or rejected by the
 Adjudicating Authority; (ii) where an appeal has been pre­
 ferred under Section 61 or Section
 62 or such an appeal is not time
 barred under any provision of law
 for the time being in force; or (iii) where a legal proceeding has
 been initiated in any court against
 the decision of the Adjudicating
 Authority in respect of a resolu­
 tion plan;] (c) provides for the management of the
 affairs of the corporate debtor after
 approval of the resolution plan; (d) the implementation and supervision
 of the resolution plan; (e) does not contravene any of the pro­
 visions of the law for the time being
 in force; (f) conforms to such other requirements
 as may be specified by the Board. Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (e), if any approval of shareholders is re­
quired under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of
2013) or any other law for the time being in
force for the implementation of actions under
the resolution plan, such approval shall be
deemed to have been given and it shall not
be a contravention of that Act or law. (3) The resolution professional shall
present to the committee of creditors for its
approval such resolution plans which con­ 128 firm the conditions referred to in sub­section
(2). (4) The committee of creditors may ap­
prove a resolution plan by a vote of not less
than sixty­six per cent of voting share of the
financial creditors, after considering its feasi­
bility and viability, the manner of distribu­
tion proposed, which may take into account
the order of priority amongst creditors as laid down in sub­section (1) of Section 53,
including the priority and value of the secu­
rity interest of a secured creditor] and such
other requirements as may be specified by
the Board: 31. Approval of resolution plan.—(1) If
the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that
the resolution plan as approved by the com­
mittee of creditors under sub­section (4) of Section 30 meets the requirements as re­
ferred to in sub­section (2) of Section 30 , it
shall by order approve the resolution plan
which shall be binding on the corporate
debtor and its employees, members, credi­
tors, including the Central Government, any
State Government or any local authority to 130 whom a debt in respect of the payment of
dues arising under any law for the time be­
ing in force, such as authorities to whom
statutory dues are owed, guarantors and
other stakeholders involved in the resolution
plan: (4) The resolution applicant shall, pur­
suant to the resolution plan approved under
sub­section (1), obtain the necessary ap­
proval required under any law for the time
being in force within a period of one year
from the date of approval of the resolution
plan by the Adjudicating Authority under 131 sub­section (1) or within such period as pro­
 vided for in such law, whichever is later: ***
No prescriptions on solutions to resolve the
insolvency
 The choice of the solution to keep the en­
tity as a going concern will be voted on by
the creditors committee. There are no con­
straints on the proposals that the resolu­
tion professional can present to the credi­
tors committee. Other than the majority
vote of the creditors committee, the reso­
lution professional needs to confirm to the
Adjudicator that the final solution com­
plies with three additional requirements.
The first is that the solution must explic­
itly require the repayment of any interim
finance and costs of the insolvency resolu­
tion process will be paid in priority to
other payments. Secondly, the plan must
explicitly include payment to all creditors
not on the creditors committee, within a
reasonable period after the solution is im­
plemented. Lastly, the plan should comply
with existing laws governing the actions of
the entity while implementing the solu­
tions. ***
5.3.1. Steps at the start of the IRP
 *** 4. Creation of the creditors committee
 The creditors committee will have the
power to decide the final solution by ma­ 134 jority vote in the negotiations. The major­
ity vote requires more than or equal to 75
per cent of the creditors committee by
weight of the total financial liabilities. The
majority vote will also involve a cram down
option on any dissenting creditors once the
majority vote is obtained. …
 The Committee deliberated on who
should be on the creditors committee,
given the power of the creditors committee
to ultimately keep the entity as a going
concern or liquidate it. The Committee rea­
soned that members of the creditors com­
mittee have to be creditors both with the
capability to assess viability, as well as to
be willing to modify terms of existing liabil­
ities in negotiations. Typically, operational
creditors are neither able to decide on mat­
ters regarding the insolvency of the entity,
nor willing to take the risk of postponing
payments for better future prospects for
the entity. The Committee concluded that,
for the process to be rapid and efficient,
the Code will provide that the creditors
committee should be restricted to only the
financial creditors. 5.3.3. Obtaining the resolution to insol­
vency in the IRP
 The Committee is of the opinion that
there should be freedom permitted to the
overall market to propose solutions on
keeping the entity as a going concern.
Since the manner and the type of possible
solutions are specific to the time and envi­
ronment in which the insolvency becomes
visible, it is expected to evolve over time, 135 and with the development of the market.
 The Code will be open to all forms of solu­
 tions for keeping the entity going without
 prejudice, within the rest of the con­
 straints of the IRP. Therefore, how the in­
 solvency is to be resolved will not be pre­
 scribed in the Code. There will be no re­
 striction in the Code on possible ways in
 which the business model of the entity, or
 its financial model, or both, can be
 changed so as to keep the entity as a go­
 ing concern. The Code will not state that
 the entity is to be revived, or the debt is to
 be restructured, or the entity is to be liqui­
 dated. This decision will come from the de­
 liberations of the creditors committee in re­
 sponse to the solutions proposed by the
 market.” 138. It is thus clear, that the Committee was of the

view, that for deciding key economic question in the

bankruptcy process, the only one correct forum for

evaluating such possibilities, and making a decision was, a

creditors committee, wherein all financial creditors have

votes in proportion to the magnitude of debt that they hold.

The BLRC has observed, that laws in India in the past have

brought arms of the Government (legislature, executive or

judiciary) into the question of bankruptcy process. This has

been strictly avoided by the Committee and it has been 136 provided, that the decision with regard to appropriate

disposition of a defaulting firm, which is a business

decision, should only be made by the creditors. It has been

observed, that the evaluation of proposals to keep the entity

as a going concern, including decisions about the sale of

business or units, restructuring of debt, etc., are required to

be taken by the Committee of the Financial Creditors. It

has been provided, that the choice of the solution to keep

the entity as a going concern will be voted upon by CoC and

there are no constraints on the proposals that the resolution

professional can present to CoC. The requirements, that

the resolution professional needs to confirm to the

Adjudicator, are: 139. The Committee also expressed the opinion, that

there should be freedom permitted to the overall market, to

propose solutions on keeping the entity as a going concern.

The Committee opined, that the details as to how the

insolvency is to be resolved or as to how the entity is to be

revived, or the debt is to be restructured will not be provided

in the I&B Code but such a decision will come from the

deliberations of CoC in response to the solutions proposed

by the market. 140. This Court in the case of K. Sashidhar (supra)

observed thus: 141. After considering the judgment of this Court in

the case of Arcelormittal India Private

Limited vs. Satish Kumar Gupta and others46 and the

relevant provisions of the I&B Code, this court further

observed in K. Sashidhar (supra) thus: The legislature, consciously, has not pro­
 vided any ground to challenge the “com­
 mercial wisdom” of the individual finan­
 cial creditors or their collective decision
 before the adjudicating authority. That
 is made non­justiciable.”
 (emphasis supplied) 142. This Court has held, that it is not open to the

Adjudicating Authority or Appellate Authority to reckon any 140 other factor other than specified in Sections 30(2) or 61(3)

of the I&B Code. It has further been held, that the

commercial wisdom of CoC has been given paramount

status without any judicial intervention for ensuring

completion of the stated processes within the timelines

prescribed by the I&B Code. This Court thus, in

unequivocal terms, held, that there is an intrinsic

assumption, that financial creditors are fully informed

about the viability of the corporate debtor and feasibility of

the proposed resolution plan. They act on the basis of

thorough examination of the proposed resolution plan and

assessment made by their team of experts. It has been

held, that the opinion expressed by CoC after due

deliberations in the meetings through voting, as per voting

shares, is a collective business decision. It has been held,

that the legislature has consciously not provided any

ground to challenge the “commercial wisdom” of the

individual financial creditors or their collective decision

before the Adjudicating Authority and that the decision of

CoC’s ‘commercial wisdom’ is made non­justiciable. 141 143. This Court in Committee of Creditors of Essar

Steel India Limited through Authorised Signatory (supra) after referring to the judgment of this Court in the

case of K. Sashidhar (supra) observed thus: 144. This Court held, that what is left to the majority

decision of CoC is the “feasibility and viability” of a

resolution plan, which is required to take into account all

aspects of the plan, including the manner of distribution of

funds among the various classes of creditors. It has further

been held, that CoC is entitled to suggest a modification to

the prospective resolution applicant, so that carrying on the

business of the Corporate Debtor does not become

impossible, which suggestion may, in turn, be accepted by

the resolution applicant with a consequent modification as

to distribution of funds, etc. It has been held, that what is

important is, the commercial wisdom of the majority of

creditors, which is to determine, through negotiation with

the prospective resolution applicant, as to how and in what

manner the corporate resolution process is to take place. 145. The view taken in the case of K. Sashidhar (supra) and Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India 143 Limited through Authorised Signatory (supra) has been

reiterated by another three Judges Bench of this Court in

the case of Maharashtra Seamless Limited (supra). 146. In all the aforesaid three judgments of this Court,

the scope of jurisdiction of the Adjudicating Authority

(NCLT) and the Appellate Authority (NCLAT) has also been

elaborately considered. It will be relevant to refer to

paragraph 55 of the judgment in the case of K. Sashidhar (supra), which reads thus: The powers and functions of the Board have
 been delineated in Section 196 of the I&B
 Code. None of the specified functions of the
 Board, directly or indirectly, pertain to regu­
 lating the manner in which the financial
 creditors ought to or ought not to exercise
 their commercial wisdom during the voting
 on the resolution plan under Section 30(4) of
 the I&B Code. The subjective satisfaction of
 the financial creditors at the time of voting is
 bound to be a mixed baggage of variety of
 factors. To wit, the feasibility and viability of
 the proposed resolution plan and including
 their perceptions about the general capabil­
 ity of the resolution applicant to translate
 the projected plan into a reality. The resolu­
 tion applicant may have given projections
 backed by normative data but still in the
 opinion of the dissenting financial creditors,
 it would not be free from being speculative.
 These aspects are completely within the do­
 main of the financial creditors who are called
 upon to vote on the resolution plan under Section 30(4) of the I&B Code.” 147. It has been held, that in an enquiry under Section 31 , the limited enquiry that the Adjudicating

Authority is permitted is, as to whether the resolution plan

provides: 148. It will be further relevant to refer to the following

observations of this Court in K. Sashidhar (supra): Fourth, the insolvency resolution plan costs
 have not been provided for repayment in pri­
 ority to all other debts. Fifth, the resolution
 plan does not comply with any other criteria
 specified by the Board. Significantly, the
 matters or grounds—be it under Section
 30(2) or under Section 61(3) of the I&B Code
 —are regarding testing the validity of the
 “approved” resolution plan by CoC; and not
 for approving the resolution plan which has
 been disapproved or deemed to have been re­
 jected by CoC in exercise of its business de­
 cision.”
 [emphasis supplied] 149. It will therefore be clear, that this Court, in

unequivocal terms, held, that the appeal is a creature of

statute and that the statute has not invested jurisdiction

and authority either with NCLT or NCLAT, to review the

commercial decision exercised by CoC of approving the

resolution plan or rejecting the same. 147 150. The position is clarified by the following

observations in paragraph 59 of the judgment in the case of K. Sashidhar (supra), which reads thus: 151. This Court in Committee of Creditors of Essar

Steel India Limited through Authorised Signatory (supra) after reproducing certain paragraphs in K.

Sashidhar (supra) observed thus: 152. It can thus be seen, that this Court has clarified,

that the limited judicial review, which is available, can in no

circumstance trespass upon a business decision arrived at

by the majority of CoC. 153. In the case of Maharashtra Seamless Limited (supra), NCLT had approved the plan of appellant therein

with regard to CIRP of United Seamless Tubulaar (P) Ltd. In

appeal, NCLAT directed, that the appellant therein should

increase upfront payment to Rs.597.54 crore to the

“financial creditors”, “operational creditors” and other

creditors by paying an additional amount of Rs.120.54

crore. NCLAT further directed, that in the event the

“resolution applicant” failed to undertake the payment of

additional amount of Rs.120.54 crore in addition to Rs.477

crore and deposit the said amount in escrow account within

30 days, the order of approval of the ‘resolution plan’ was to

be treated to be set aside. While allowing the appeal and

setting aside the directions of NCLAT, this Court observed

thus: That factor is that the resolution plan has
 provisions for its implementation. The scope
 of interference by the adjudicating authority
 in limited judicial review has been laid down
 in Essar Steel [Essar Steel India Ltd. Commit­
 tee of Creditors v. Satish Kumar Gupta ,
 (2020) 8 SCC 531] , the relevant passage
 (para 54) of which we have reproduced in
 earlier part of this judgment. The case of
 MSL in their appeal is that they want to run
 the company and infuse more funds. In such
 circumstances, we do not think the appellate
 authority ought to have interfered with the
 order of the adjudicating authority in direct­
 ing the successful resolution applicant to en­
 hance their fund inflow upfront.” 154. This Court observed, that the Court ought to cede

ground to the commercial wisdom of the creditors rather

than assess the resolution plan on the basis of quantitative 150 analysis. This Court clearly held, that the appellate

authority ought not to have interfered with the order of the

adjudicating authority by directing the successful resolution

applicant to enhance their fund inflow upfront. 155. It would thus be clear, that the legislative

scheme, as interpreted by various decisions of this Court, is

unambiguous. The commercial wisdom of CoC is not to be

interfered with, excepting the limited scope as provided

under Sections 30 and 31 of the I&B Code. 156. No doubt, it is sought to be urged, that since

there has been a material irregularity in exercise of the

powers by RP, NCLAT was justified in view of the provisions

of clause (ii) of sub­section (3) of Section 61 of the I&B Code

to interfere with the exercise of power by RP. However, it

could be seen, that all actions of RP have the seal of

approval of CoC. No doubt, it was possible for RP to have

issued another Form ‘G’, in the event he found, that the

proposals received by it prior to the date specified in last

Form ‘G’ could not be accepted. However, it has been the

consistent stand of RP as well as CoC, that all actions of RP, 151 including acceptance of resolution plans of Kalpraj after the

due date, albeit before the expiry of timeline specified by the

I&B Code for completion of the process, have been

consciously approved by CoC. It is to be noted, that the

decision of CoC is taken by a thumping majority of 84.36%.

The only creditor voted in favour of KIAL is Kotak Bank,

which is a holding company of KIAL, having voting rights of

0.97%. We are of the considered view, that in view of the

paramount importance given to the decision of CoC, which

is to be taken on the basis of ‘commercial wisdom’, NCLAT

was not correct in law in interfering with the commercial

decision taken by CoC by a thumping majority of 84.36%. 157. It is further to be noted, that after the resolution

plan of Kalpraj was approved by NCLT on 28.11.2019,

Kalpraj had begun implementing the resolution plan.

NCLAT had heard the appeals on 27.2.2020 and reserved

the same for orders. It is not in dispute, that there was no

stay granted by NCLAT, while reserving the matters for

orders. After a gap of five months and eight days, NCLAT

passed the final order on 5.8.2020. It could thus be seen, 152 that for a long period, there was no restraint on

implementation of the resolution plan of Kalpraj, which was

duly approved by NCLT. It is the case of Kalpraj, RP, CoC

and Deutsche Bank, that during the said period, various

steps have been taken by Kalpraj by spending a huge

amount for implementation of the plan. No doubt, this is

sought to be disputed by KIAL. However, we do not find it

necessary to go into that aspect of the matter in light of our

conclusion, that NCLAT acted in excess of jurisdiction in

interfering with the conscious commercial decision of CoC. 158. It is also pointed out, that in pursuance of the

order dated 5.8.2020 passed by NCLAT, CoC has approved

the resolution plan of KIAL on 13.8.2020. However, since

we have already held, that the decision of NCLAT dated

5.8.2020 does not stand the scrutiny of law, it must follow,

that the subsequent approval of the resolution plan of KIAL

by CoC becomes non­est in law. For, it was only to abide by

the directions of NCLAT. We are of the view that nothing

would turn on it. The decision of CoC dated 13/14.2.2019

is a decision, which has been taken in exercise of its 153 ‘commercial wisdom’. As such, we hold, that the decision

taken by CoC dated 13/14.2.2019, which is taken in

accordance with its ‘commercial wisdom’ and which is duly

approved by NCLT, will prevail. Further, NCLAT was not

justified in interfering with the stated decision taken by

CoC. 159. In that view of the matter, we find, that Civil

Appeal Nos. 2943­2944 of 2020 filed by Kalpraj; Civil Appeal

Nos. 2949­2950 of 2020 filed by RP and Civil Appeal Nos.

3138­3139 of 2020 filed by Deutsche Bank deserve to be

allowed. It is ordered accordingly. The order passed by

NCLAT dated 5.8.2020 is quashed and set aside and the

orders passed by NCLT dated 28.11.2019 are restored and

maintained. 160. Insofar as, the Civil Appeals arising out of D.No.

24125 of 2020 filed by Fourth Dimension Solutions Limited

are concerned, it is submitted, that the appeal preferred by

it against the order of NCLT is still pending before NCLAT.

Without going into the merits of the rival contentions of the

parties, we direct NCLAT to decide the appeal of Fourth 154 Dimension Solutions Limited in accordance with law, as

expeditiously as possible, and in any case, within a period

of two months from today. 161. As such, all appeals are disposed of in view of the

above and pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed

of. …….…....................., J. [A.M. KHANWILKAR]

 …….…....................., J. [B.R. GAVAI]

 …….…....................., J. [KRISHNA MURARI]

NEW DELHI; MARCH 10, 2021