(20.11.2020)

 This revision petition has been filed by the child

in conflict with law under the provision of Juvenile Justice

(Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (herein after

referred as 'Act 2015'), however, same was wrongly

mentioned by the petitioner as Juvenile Justice (Care and

Protection of Children) Act, 2000 . Since, the offence had

occurred in the year 2019, therefore, the provisions of Act

2015 shall be applied in the case. Cr.R. No. 1695/2020 2. Petitioner has challenged the order dated 29.05.2020

in Criminal Appeal No.43/2020 passed by learned Special Judge

(POCSO Act)/4th Additional Sessions Judge, Satna arising out of

order dated 22.05.2020 in Case No.232/2019 passed by Principal

Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Satna whereby the Magistrate

has rejected the prayer of bail made by the revisionist. The learned

Appellate Court has also affirmed the order of Principal

Magistrate, Satna. 3. As per prosecution case, a missing complaint of

deceased-Vikas was lodged on 16.08.2019 by his uncle-Sumati

Kumhar. Further, a ransom demand of Rs.10 lakh was also made

by unknown person to father of deceased. During investigation, on

the basis of input received from cyber cell, police arrested the

applicant and recorded his memorandum statement. It is found in

the investigation that under conspiracy, applicant and other co-

accused kidnapped the deceased on temptation for getting ransom

and thereafter to hide the evidence, they caused his death by

throwing him into well. 4. Learned counsel for the revisionist submits that the

Courts below committed grave error of law in not releasing the

applicant on bail. He submits that the Courts below overlooked

the provision of Section 12 of Act 2015 wherein the seriousness of 3 Cr.R. No. 1695/2020 offence is immaterial. He further argued that the child in conflict

with law shall only not be released on bail if there appears

reasonable ground for believing that, the release is likely to bring

him into association with any criminal or cause any physical or

psychological danger for him. He submits that as per report of

Probationary Officer, child in conflict with law is having good

behaviour. It is suggested in the report that the revisionist requires

attention of his parents on account of his illness. The learned

Courts below have denied prayer of bail on the ground of

seriousness of crime which is irrelevant factor for adjudication of

bail application filed by the child in conflict with law. On merit,

he argued that revisionist has been made as an accused in the case

only on the basis of suspicion. No ingredients are available to

constitute the aforesaid offences. He submits that revisionist is a

student and if he is not released on bail, his future would be ruined

as well as object of the Act, 2015 will be frustrated. With the

aforesaid, he prays to allow this revision petition. 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for the

respondent/State as well as counsel for the objector oppose the

petition submitting that offence involved in the case is heinous in

nature and if the revisionist is released on bail it would defeat the

ends of justice. It is further argued by learned counsel for the 4 Cr.R. No. 1695/2020 objector that family members of revisionist are threatening the

witnesses and pertaining to this, Jyoti Prajapati daughter of

prosecution witness Amit Prajapati has filed a written complaint

before Superintendent of Police, Satna. The revisionist is having

main role in aforesaid crime and he does not deserves any

sympathy being juvenile. With the aforesaid, they pray to reject

the said petition. 6. Heard and perused the matter. 7. Under the Act 2015, Section 12 facilitates bail to

child in conflict with law with certain parameters. Further, the

burden on the prosecution to show that on the parameters

specified in the provisio to Section 12 (1) of Act 2015, bail should

be denied to a juvenile. As per Section 12 of Act 2015, a juvenile

shall be released on bail, but he may not be so released if there

appears reasonable ground for believing that the release is likely

to bring him into association with any known criminal or expose

him to moral, physical or psychological danger or that his release

would defeat the ends of justice. The learned counsel for the

revisionist raised the argument that the Courts below have rejected

the prayer of bail of revisionist on the ground of gravity of offence

which is irrelevant in view of Section 12 of Act 2015. 5 Cr.R. No. 1695/2020 8. On perusal of impugned order, it appears that learned

Appellate Court has rejected the bail application not only the

ground of gravity but also on the basis of apprehension about

association of revisionist with known criminals and his release

would defeat the ends of justice. In the case of Om Prakash v.

State of Rajasthan and another reported in (2012) 5 SCC 201,

Hon'ble the Apex Court has expressed its due concern in the

matters relating to juvenile where the offence are heinous like

rape, murder, gang rape etc and stated that "...subverting the

course of justice as statutory protection of the Juvenile Justice

Act is meant for minors who are innocent law-breakers and not

the accused of matured mind who use the plea of minority as a

ploy or shield to protect himself from the sentence of the offence

committed by him." 9. There is no doubt in the mind of Court that under Act

2015, generally bail is the rule and it is a beneficial legislation

intended for reform of the juvenile, but the law also demands that

justice should be done not only the accused, but also to the

victims. 10. Here in the case, the allegation against the present

revisionist is that he along with other co-accused is involved in

demanding ransom and murder of deceased who is aged about 13 6 Cr.R. No. 1695/2020 years. As per prosecution, revisionist designed a plan to execute

their ill motive and in furtherance of it, the accused persons

kidnapped the deceased and murdered him thereafter and to hide

the evidence, they threw his body into a well. As per impugned

order, revisionist is aged about 17 years and 8 months, however,

the order is silent about preliminary assessment of revisionist as

per Sections 15 and 18 of Act 2015 to determine need for trial of

revisionist as an adult. 11. The report of Probationary Officer does not indicate

any adverse remark regarding behaviour of revisionist but in the

light of above statutory provision and principle, bail prayer of the

revisionist has to be considered on the surrounding facts and

circumstances. Merely by declaration of being a juvenile does not

entitle a child in conflict with law to be released on bail as a

matter of right. In the case of Virendra Vs. State of U.P. reported

in 2015 (1) ACR 629, the High Court of Allahabad has considered

the related provision in detail under the case relating to heinous

crimes and held as under :- 12. The counsel for the objector has also drawn attention

of this Court towards threats given to sister of deceased by the

family members of child in conflict with law. Hence, possibility of

tampering the evidence can not be ruled out. The anger of affected

family members towards revisionist can also be an important

factor to lead the child in conflict with law to physical and

psychological danger. 13. In view of the aforesaid, granting bail to revisionist

will not only expose him to moral, physical and psychological

danger but would also lead to defeat the ends of justice. 14. Therefore, orders passed by Courts below do not

warrant any interfere of this Court, consequently, this petition is

hereby dismissed. However, trial Court is directed to conclude the

trial as early as possible preferably within a period of four months. (Rajendra Kumar Srivastava)
 Judge 8 Cr.R. No. 1695/2020 sp Digitally signed by SAVITRI PATEL Date: 2020.11.24 16:57:27 +05'30'