Google has announced on X (formerly Twitter) that its SynthID text watermarking technology, designed to help identify AI-generated text, is now available as an open-source tool through the Google Responsible Generative AI Toolkit for developers and businesses.

The company integrated the tool into its Gemini AI model, allowing for watermarking of AI-generated content in a way that is “imperceptible to humans” but easily detectable by an algorithm. SynthID watermarks and identifies AI-generated content by embedding digital watermarks directly into AI-generated images, audio, text or video.

Announced by the company in August last year, SynthID can add the watermark to text, images, audio and videos.

Google’s SynthID works by adding a hidden watermark to text generated by AI. Think of it like a digital signature that identifies the source of the content without being obvious to readers.

Google asserts that SynthID Text, integrated with its Gemini models, maintains the quality, accuracy, and speed of text generation without any compromise. It is also effective on text that has been cropped, paraphrased, or altered.

Google doesn’t provide extensive details about how SynthID operates, likely because as Demis Hassabis, CEO of Google DeepMind, explained to The Verge , “the more you disclose about its functionality, the easier it becomes for hackers and malicious actors to exploit it.”

Increasingly, distinguishing AI-generated imagery from human-created images is getting difficult due to the high quality of AI content. Moreover, the rising use of Large Language Models (LLM) to disseminate political misinformation , highlights the importance of AI regulation. The inability to identify the origin of content complicates the management of fake information, deep fakes, and copyright concerns.

China’s government mandated watermarking AI-generated content last year. Meanwhile, California is also looking into making it mandatory.

A report from the European Union Law Enforcement Agency predicts that by 2026, 90% of online content could be generated synthetically, resulting in new challenges for law enforcement regarding disinformation, propaganda, fraud, and deception.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event