The petitioners are before this Court calling in question

registration of a crime in Crime No.72 of 2021 for offences

punishable under Sections 417 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 r/w 34 of the IPC and pending before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Bengaluru Rural District. Petitioners are accused Nos. 1 and 2. 2. The facts, in brief, adumbrated are as follows:- 3. Heard Smt. Lakshmy Iyengar, learned senior counsel

appearing for the petitioners, Sri M.R. Patil, learned High Court

Government Pleader appearing for respondent No.1 and Sri M. S. 5 Shyam Sundar, learned senior counsel appearing for respondent

No.2. 4. The learned senior counsel Smt. Lakshmy Iyengar

appearing for petitioners would vehemently contend that the issue,

which is on the face of it civil in nature, is being given a colour of

crime, that too when the petitioners approach the civil Court and

the civil Court grants injunction against the complainant not to

alienate the property. The story is then twined of all the offences

that are alleged - cheating and forgery. The learned senior counsel

would, therefore, submit that permitting further proceedings would

become an abuse of the process of law. 5. Per contra, the learned senior counsel Sri M.S. Shyam

Sundar appearing for the complainant would seek to defend the

action by contending that the petitioners were doing chit fund

business and the complainant had joined in two chit fund schemes

and was paying `3,00,000/- towards one chit and `6,00,000/- in

respect of the other chit. Agreements were entered into between

the parties. In order to cheat the complainant, the petitioners have

resorted to forgery and have taken blank cheques from the hands 6 of the complainant and filled in the amount to show that it was the

subject matter of agreements of sale. Therefore, he would contend

that all these matters which pertain to cheating and forgery are a

matter of trial and the petitioners have to come out clean in the

trial. He would contend that after receipt of notice in O.S. Nos. 230

and 231 of 2021 the complainant comes to know about the

agreements of sale which she had never signed and, therefore,

immediately after receipt of notice, the crime is registered alleging

cheating and forgery. 6. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 7. The afore-narrated facts are a matter of record. The

transactions between the parties began with the agreements of sale

entered into between the complainant and the petitioners. It is the

averment that two agreements of sale happened on 01-07-2015

and 27-08-2015, pursuant to which an amount of `70,00,000/- covering both the agreements of sale come to be transferred to the

name of the complainant/2nd respondent. The transfer of amount is 7 not in dispute. The complainant did not come forward to execute

the sale deeds. Legal notices are caused by the petitioners on

14-10-2020 seeking the complainant to come forward and execute

the sale deed in furtherance of agreements of sale. The notices are

received, but no reply is given by the complainant. The petitioners

then file O.S.Nos. 230 and 231 of 2021 seeking the relief of specific

performance of execution of sale deeds pursuant to agreements. The concerned civil Court on 03-02-2021 grants an interim

injunction which reads as follows: Issue exparte order of ad-interim temporary
 injunction, emergent notice on I.A.No.I and suit
 summons to the defendant, if P.F. paid. Returnable by 17-03-2021." (Emphasis added)

The complainant/defendant was restrained from alienating the suit

schedule property. The notice from the civil Court is received by the

complainant. Immediately thereafter comes the impugned

complaint on 15-03-2021. Since the entire issue is now triggered

from the complaint, I deem it appropriate to notice the complaint

for the purpose of quick reference. It reads as follows: ,-ಾಸ: uÉÆÃ.165/75, ನಲೂ0ರಹ23 ರ4ೆ5, 67ಾ8ಪ:ರ, # 161,
 ೈ ೕ ಅಂ;ೆ, ೆಂಗಳ ರು - 560 066. ªÉÆ £ÀA: 9449595100

 ,ಷಯ: ನನ> ಸ?ಯನು> ಪ@ಜA BಾCರುವ %ೆ.ಆE.FಾಜGೇಖE FೆC ಮತು5 ಅವರ
 ಪ#> JಾಗK FಾಜGೇಖE FೆC ರವರುಗಳ ,ರುದL ದೂರು. ¸Áé«Ä,

 Mಾನು ಈ OೕಲPಂಡ ,-ಾಸದ 0 ನನ> ಕುಟುಂಬ7ೊಂ( ೆ ಸುBಾರು 10 ವಷAಗ2ಂದ
 ಾಸ BಾC%ೊಂಡು ಇರುTೆ5ೕ ೆ. Mಾವ:ಗಳU 2015 ಮತು5 2016Mೇ ಇಸ,ಯ 0 ಎರಡು
WೕXಗಳನು> %ೆ.ಆE.FಾಜGೇಖE FೆCರವರ ಹ#5ರ YಾZದು8, ಪ!# #ಂಗಳU ಒಂದು WೕX
ರೂ.3,00,000/- (ಮೂರು ಲ ) Yಾಗೂ ಇMೊ>ಂದು WೕX ರೂ.6,00,000/- (ಆರು ಲ )
ರೂ\ಾ]ಗಳಂTೆ ಒಟು^ ರೂ.9,00,000/- (ಒಂಭತು5 ಲ ) ರೂ\ಾ]ಗಳನು> ತಪ`7ೇ ಕಟು^Tಾ5
ಬಂ(7ೆ8ವ:. ಅದರಂTೆ ಒಂದು WೕXಯ 0 4 ಇMೊ>ಂದು
 ಇMೊ>ಂದು WೕXಯ 0 6 WೕXಗಳU ಾZ ಇರುವಂTೆ
Mಾನು WೕXಗಳನು> %ೋ ರುTೆ5ೕMೆ. ಈ %ೋ ರುವ WೕXಗಳ ಹಣ%ೆP ಶc Xdಾe ನನ> Yೆಸ ನ 0
Yೊಂ(ದ8 ಸ ೆA ನಂ.51ರ ಸf#5ನ ಎರಡು ಮೂಲ ಕ!ಯಪತ!ಗಳU ಮತು5 ಎಡರು gಾ ;ೆಕುPಗಳನು>
ಅವರು ಪhೆ(ರುTಾ5Fೆ. ಅದರಂTೆ ಎರಡೂ WೕXಗಳ ಕೂeರುವ ಹಣವನು> %ೇ27ಾಗ ಆ ಹಣ%ೆP #ಂಗ2 ೆ
ರೂ.1.5% ರಂTೆ ಬC %ೊಡುವ:7ಾe Yೇ2ರುTಾ5Fೆ. ಆದFೆ ಇ 0ಯ ತನಕ dಾವ:7ೇ ಹಣವನು>
%ೊಡ7ೇ ಸುಳU3 Yೇ2%ೊಂಡು ಸಮಯ ಮುಂದುವFೆ6%ೊಂಡು ಬಂ(ರುTಾ5Fೆ. Yಾಗೂ ಎiಾ0
WೕXಗಳU ಮುe(7ೆ ನನ> ಮೂಲ ಕ!ಯಪತ!ಗಳU ಮತು5 ಎರಡು gಾ ;ೆಕುPಗಳನು> ಾಪಸುj
%ೊಡ ೇ%ೆಂದು %ೇ27ಾಗ ಅವರು/ಎ 0kೕ %ಾಗದಗಳ ಮlೆK 4ೇ %ೊಂC ೆ ಅವ:ಗಳನು>
ಹುCZ%ೊಡುTೆ5ೕMೆ ಎಂದು Yೇ2 (ನಗಳನು> ಕ-ೆದು ಸುಳU3 Yೇ2%ೊಂಡು ಬಂ(ರುTಾ5Fೆ. ಆದFೆ ನ >ಂದ ಪhೆ(ದ8 ಮೂಲ ಕ!ಯಪತ!ಗಳ 0ರುವ ನನ> ಸ?ಯನು> mೕಜA (±ÀÈn^)
 BಾC ಸದ ಎರಡೂ ಮೂಲ PÀæAiÀÄ¥ÀvÀæಗಳ 0ರುವ ಸfತು5ಗಳನು> ಅವರುಗಳ Yೆಸ ೆ ಕ!ಯದ ಕFಾರು
 ಪತ!ಗಳನು> ±ÀÈn^ BಾC%ೊಂಡು ಜoೕನುಗಳನು> ಲಪpಾ]ಸಲು ಮತು5 ನನ ೆ mಸ Bಾಡುವ
 ಸಲು ಾe ನನ ೆ %ೊಡ ೇ%ಾeರುವ WೕXಗಳ ಹಣವನು> %ೊಡ7ೇ mಸ Bಾಡುವ ಉ7ೆ8ೕಶ(ಂದ
 ಅವರು ೕಜA BಾC ಅವರ Yೆಸ ನ 0 ಶೃn^ BಾC%ೊಂCರುವ ಕ!ಯದ ಕFಾರು ಪತ!ಗಳ
 ಮೂಲಕ ೆಂಗಳ ರು ಾ!Bಾಂತರ 6, MಾKdಾಲದ 0 7ಾ ೆಯನು> ಹೂC ಓ.ಎ .
 ನಂ:230/2021 ಮತು5 ಓ.ಎ . ನಂ:231/2021 ಗಳ MೊXೕ tೊTೆ ಕ!ಯದ ಕFಾರು ಪತ!ದ
 ನಕಲು ನನ ೆ ಬಂ7ಾಗ ೊTಾ5eದು8 ನನ> ಸ?ಯನು> mೕಜA (ಶೃn^) BಾC ಕ!ಯದ ಕFಾರು
 ಪತ! BಾC%ೊಂC7ಾ8Fೆ ಎಂದು. ಆದFೆ Mಾನು ಅವರ Yೆಸ ೆ dಾವ:7ೇ ೕ#ಯ ಕ!ಯದ ಕFಾರು
 ಪತ!ವನು> BಾC%ೊX^ರುವ:(ಲ0. ಇವರುಗಳU ನನ ೆ mಸ, ವಂಚMೆ Bಾಡುವ ಉ7ೆ8ೕಶ(ಂದ ನನ>
 ಸ?ಯನು> ಪ@ಜA BಾC ಕ!ಯದ ಕFಾರು ಪತ! BಾC%ೊಂCರುTಾ5Fೆ. ಆದ8 ಂದ ಅವರುಗಳನು>
 ಾ ೆ ೆ ಕFೆ]6 ,;ಾರ ೆ BಾC ನನ ೆ %ೊಡ ೇ%ಾeರುವ ಹಣ, ಮೂಲ ಕ!ಯ ಪತ!ಗಳU Yಾಗೂ
 gಾ ;ೆಕುPಗಳನು> ಾಪಸುj %ೊಡ6, ಅವರುಗಳ ,ರುದL %ಾನೂನು ಕ!ಮ Tೆ ೆದು%ೊಂಡು ನನ ೆ
 MಾKಯ 7ೊರZ6%ೊಡ ೇ%ಾe ತಮv 0 ಮನ, BಾC%ೊಳU3Tೆ5ೕMೆ. ವಂದMೆಗ-ೆ ಂ( ೆ; ಮಂಜುಳ
 ಇಂ# ತಮv ,Gಾf6." (Emphasis added)

A perusal at the complaint would indicate that the complainant had

invested in some chit funds which are allegedly run by the

petitioners, the premium of which was `3,00,000/- and `6,00,000/- totally `9,00,000/- every month. It is further averred that two

blank cheques along with several blank documents were taken and

therefore there is forgery. What is not divulged is the receipt of the 11 amount of `70,00,000/- by the complainant from the hands of the

petitioners, which is a matter of record. 8. The learned counsel for the complainant has placed on

record certain documents. The first document is a loan agreement

between the 1st petitioner and the complainant. The loan

agreement does not contain the signature of the 1st petitioner at all. It only contains the signature of the complainant. The other

documents are the documents of O.S.Nos. 230 and 231 of 2021

and agreements of sale that are subject matter of civil proceedings. 9. In the light of what is narrated hereinabove, what would

unmistakably emerge is, that the issue, which on the face of it civil

in nature, is sought to be dressed with a colour of crime, ostensibly

to arm twist the petitioners who have instituted a civil suit seeking

specific performance of agreements executed between the parties

in the year 2015. The timing of registration of complaint also 12 assumes significance. No complaint is ever registered till 2021. The

legal notices caused upon the complainant are not replied to. The

moment the suits are preferred and injunction is granted on

03-02-2021 immediately comes the complaint on 15-03-2021. If

this cannot be construed to be the matter which is purely civil in

nature which is dressed with the colour of crime, it is

ununderstandable, as to which can be. 10. The offences alleged are punishable under Sections 417 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 r/w 34 of the IPC . Section 417 and 420 read as

follows: Both these provisions need the ingredients as obtaining in Section

415 of the IPC. Section 415 reads as follows: Explanation.--A dishonest concealment of facts is a
 deception within the meaning of this section." Section 415 mandates that the accused should have induced the

victim to enter into any transaction with a dishonest intention right

from the beginning of the transaction. The subject case deals with

transactions between the parties which are agreements of sale. If

they are transactions between the parties i.e., agreements of sale

and the consideration is transferred to the victim, it can hardly

meet the ingredients of Section 415 of the IPC. Therefore, Sections

417 and 420 of the IPC are loosely laid against the petitioners. What remains are, Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC. They read

as follows: Sections 467 , 468 and 471 deal with forgery and usage of forged

documents. The documents, in the case at hand, are registered

agreements of sale which are signed by both the petitioners and the

complainant. The complainant receives the amount which was the

consideration of agreements and then turns around and registers

the complaint, when specific performance was sought by instituting

suits by the petitioners. If the agreements are a product of 15 signature of the complainant and have been in place for six years,

the plea of forgery is also loosely laid against the petitioners as the

petitioners prima facie have not used any forged documents, as

they are the ones that are the subject matters before the civil

Court. 11. If forgery and cheating are prima facie absent, permitting

further proceedings would run foul of plethora of judgments of the

Apex Court. The Apex Court in the case of DEEPAK GABA v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH1 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 11. The private complaint filed by Respondent 2
 complainant had invoked Sections 405 , 420 , 471 and 120- B IPC . However, by the order dated 19-7-2018, summons
 were directed to be issued only under Section 406IPC, and
 not under Sections 420 , 471 or 120-B IPC . We have quoted
 the operative and reasoning portion of the summoning order,
 that records in brief the assertions in the complaint, to hold
 that Respondent 2 complainant had shown that "a forged
 demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p had been raised by JIPL, which
 demand is not due in terms of the statements made by
 Shubhankar P. Tomar and Sakshi Tilak Chand". The order
 states that Respondent 2 complainant had filed photocopy of
 "one" email as per Documents 1 to 34, but the narration and
 the contents of the email is not adverted to and elucidated. 12. In case of a private complaint, the Magistrate
 can issue summons when the evidence produced at 1 (2023) 3 SCC 423 16 the pre-summoning stage shows that there is
sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused.
The material on record should indicate that the
ingredients for taking cognizance of an offence and
issuing summons to the accused is made out.
[ Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel v. State of Gujarat , (2019)
16 SCC 547 : (2020) 2 SCC (Cri) 361; Sunil Bharti
Mittal v. CBI , (2015) 4 SCC 609 : (2015) 2 SCC (Cri) 687;
and Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Judicial Magistrate , (1998) 5 SCC
749 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 1400. The proviso to Section 200 of
the Code is not applicable in the present case.] 13. In the present case, the trial court did not issue
summons under Sections 420 and 471IPC, or for that
matter, invoke the provision relating to conspiracy under
Section 120-BIPC. Although the summoning order dated 19-
7-2018 does not deal with these sections of the IPC , we
deem it imperative to examine the ingredients of the
aforesaid sections, and Section 406IPC, and whether the
allegations made in the complaint attract the penal
provisions under the relevant sections of the IPC . We have
undertaken this exercise in order to carry out a complete and
comprehensive analysis of the factual matrix and the legal
provisions, and rule out possibility of an error to the
detriment of Respondent 2 complainant. 14. Section 406IPC ["406. Punishment for criminal
breach of trust.--Whoever commits criminal breach of trust
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for
a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with
both."] prescribes punishment for breach of trust which may
extend to three years or with fine or with both, when
ingredients of Section 405IPC are satisfied. For Section
406IPC to get attracted, there must be criminal breach of
trust in terms of Section 405IPC. [ "405. Criminal breach
of trust.--Whoever, being in any manner entrusted with
property, or with any dominion over property, dishonestly
misappropriates or converts to his own use that property, or
dishonestly uses or disposes of that property in violation of
any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such trust
is to be discharged, or of any legal contract, express or
implied, which he has made touching the discharge of such
trust, or wilfully suffers any other person so to do, commits 17 "criminal breach of trust".***Illustrations***(b) A is a
warehouse-keeper. Z going on a journey, entrusts his
furniture to A, under a contract that it shall be returned on
payment of a stipulated sum for warehouse
room. A dishonestly sells the goods. A has committed
criminal breach of trust.(c) A, residing in Calcutta, is agent
for Z, residing at Delhi. There is an express or implied
contract between A and Z, that all sums remitted
by Z to A shall be invested by A, according to Z's
direction. Z remits a lakh of rupees to A, with directions
to A to invest the same in Company's paper. A dishonestly
disobeys the directions and employs the money in his own
business. A has committed criminal breach of trust.(d) But
if A, in the last illustration, not dishonestly but in good faith,
believing that it will be more for Z's advantage to hold shares
in the Bank of Bengal, disobeys Z's directions, and buys
shares in the Bank of Bengal, for Z, instead of buying
Company's paper, here, thought Z should suffer loss, and
should be entitled to bring a civil action against A, on
account of that loss, yet A, not having acted dishonestly, has
not committed criminal breach of trust.***(f) A, a carrier, is
entrusted by Z with property to be carried by land or by
water. A dishonestly misappropriates the property. A has
committed criminal breach of trust."(Explanations 1 and 2
and Illustrations (a) and (e) to Section 405IPC are excluded,
as they are irrelevant.)] 15. For Section 405IPC to be attracted, the following
have to be established: misappropriated or converted to their own use
 that property, or dishonestly used or disposed of
 that property or wilfully suffer any other person
 to do so; and (c) such misappropriation, conversion, use
 or disposal should be in violation of any direction
 of law prescribing the mode in which such trust 18 is to be discharged, or of any legal contract
 which the person has made, touching the
 discharge of such trust. 16. Thus, criminal breach of trust would, inter alia,
mean using or disposing of the property by a person who is
entrusted with or otherwise has dominion. Such an act must
not only be done dishonestly, but also in violation of any
direction of law or any contract express or implied relating to
carrying out the trust. [ Sudhir Shantilal Mehta v. CBI , (2009)
8 SCC 1 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 646] 17. However, in the instant case, materials on record
fail to satisfy the ingredients of Section 405IPC. The
complaint does not directly refer to the ingredients of Section
405IPC and does not state how and in what manner, on
facts, the requirements are satisfied. Pre-summoning
evidence is also lacking and suffers on this account. On these
aspects, the summoning order is equally quiet, albeit, it
states that "a forged demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p had been
raised by JIPL, which demand is not due in terms of
statements by Shubhankar P. Tomar and Sakshi Tilak
Chand". A mere wrong demand or claim would not meet the
conditions specified by Section 405IPC in the absence of
evidence to establish entrustment, dishonest
misappropriation, conversion, use or disposal, which action
should be in violation of any direction of law, or legal
contract touching the discharge of trust. Hence, even if
Respondent 2 complainant is of the opinion that the
monetary demand or claim is incorrect and not payable,
given the failure to prove the requirements of Section
405IPC, an offence under the same section is not
constituted. In the absence of factual allegations which
satisfy the ingredients of the offence under Section 405IPC, a
mere dispute on monetary demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p, does
not attract criminal prosecution under Section 406IPC. 18. In order to apply Section 420IPC, namely,
cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property, the
ingredients of Section 415IPC have to be satisfied. To
constitute an offence of cheating under Section 415IPC, a
person should be induced, either fraudulently or dishonestly,
to deliver any property to any person, or consent that any 19 person shall retain any property. The second class of acts set
forth in the section is the intentional inducement of doing or
omitting to do anything which the person deceived would not
do or omit to do, if she were not so deceived. Thus, the sine
qua non of Section 415IPC is "fraudulence", "dishonesty", or
"intentional inducement", and the absence of these elements
would debase the offence of cheating. [ Iridium India Telecom
Ltd. v. Motorola Inc. , (2011) 1 SCC 74 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri)
1201] 19. Explaining the contours, this Court in Mohd.
Ibrahim v. State of Bihar [Mohd. Ibrahim v. State of Bihar,
(2009) 8 SCC 751 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 929. This Court, in
this case, has cautioned that the ratio should not be
misunderstood, to record the clarification, which in the
present case, in our opinion, is not of any avail and help to
Respondent 2 complainant. We respectfully concur with the
clarification as well as the ratio explaining Sections 415 , 464 ,
etc. IPC .] , observed that for the offence of cheating, there
should not only be cheating, but as a consequence of such
cheating, the accused should also have dishonestly adduced
the person deceived to deliver any property to a person; or
to make, alter, or destroy, wholly or in part, a valuable
security, or anything signed or sealed and which is capable of
being converted into a valuable security. 20. In the present case, the ingredients to constitute
an offence under Section 420 read with Section 415IPC are
absent. The pre-summoning evidence does not disclose and
establish the essential ingredients of Section 415IPC. There
is no assertion, much less legal evidence, to submit that JIPL
had engaged in dishonesty, fraud, or intentional inducement
to deliver a property. It is not the case of Respondent 2
complainant that JIPL had tried to deceive them, either by
making a false or misleading representation, or by any other
action or omission; nor is it their case that JIPL had offered
any fraudulent or dishonest inducement to deliver a
property. As such, given that the ingredients of Section
415IPC are not satisfied, the offence under Section 420IPC is
not made out. 21. Section 471IPC ["471. Using as genuine a
forged document or electronic record.--Whoever 20 fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or
electronic record which he knows or has reason to believe to
be a forged document or electronic record, shall be punished
in the same manner as if he had forged such document or
electronic record."] is also not attracted. This Section is
applicable when a person fraudulently or dishonestly uses as
genuine any document or electronic record, which he knows
or has reasons to believe to be a forged document or
electronic record. This Court in Mohd. Ibrahim [Mohd.
Ibrahim v. State of Bihar , (2009) 8 SCC 751: (2009) 3 SCC
(Cri) 929. This Court, in this case, has cautioned that the
ratio should not be misunderstood, to record the clarification,
which in the present case, in our opinion, is not of any avail
and help to Respondent 2 complainant. We respectfully
concur with the clarification as well as the ratio explaining Sections 415 , 464 , etc. IPC .] , has elucidated that the
condition precedent of an offence under Section 471IPC is
forgery by making a false document or false electronic record
or part thereof. Further, to constitute the offence under
Section 471IPC, it has to be proven that the document was
"forged" in terms of Section 470 ["470. Forged
document.--A false document [or electronic record] made
wholly or in part by forgery is designated "a forged document
or electronic record"."] , and "false" in terms of Section
464IPC [ "464. Making a false document.--A person is
said to make a false document or false electronic record--
First.--Who dishonestly or fraudulently--(a) makes, signs,
seals or executes a document or part of a document;(b)
makes or transmits any electronic record or part of any
electronic record;(c) affixes any electronic signature on any
electronic record;(d) makes any mark denoting the execution
of a document or the authenticity of the electronic
signature,with the intention of causing it to be believed that
such document or part of a document, electronic record
or *[electronic signature] was made, signed, sealed,
executed, transmitted or affixed by or by the authority of a
person by whom or by whose authority he knows that it was
not made, signed, sealed, executed or affixed; or*
Substituted for "digital signature" by Act 10 of 2009, Section
51(e) (w.e.f. 27-10-2009)Secondly.--Who without lawful
authority, dishonestly or fraudulently, by cancellation or
otherwise, alters a document or an electronic record in any
material part thereof, after it has been made, executed or 21 affixed with electronic signature either by himself or by any
other person, whether such person be living or dead at the
time of such alteration; orThirdly.--Who dishonestly or
fraudulently causes any person to sign, seal, execute or alter
a document or an electronic record or to affix his electronic
signature on any electronic record knowing that such person
by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication cannot, or
that by reason of deception practised upon him, he does not
know the contents of the document or electronic record or
the nature of the alteration."] . 22. Section 470 lays down that a document is "forged"
if there is: Section 470 defines a "forged document" as a false
document made by forgery. 23. As per Section 464IPC, a person is said to have
made a "false document": 24. Unless the document is false and forged in terms
of Sections 464 and 470IPC respectively, the requirement of
Section 471IPC would not be met. 25. In the counter-affidavit filed by Respondent 2
complainant, it is submitted that a few bills were
faked/forged, as the goods were not ordered. Reference is
made to balance of Rs 79,752 shown on 30-3-2013, which
was objected to and thereupon as per the complaint itself the
demand/bill was withdrawn. This would not make the bill a 22 forged document or false document, in terms of Sections 470 and 464IPC. The complaint was made in the year 2017, four
years after the bill/claim had been withdrawn, reflecting no
criminal intent. The bill was not fake or forged, and at best it
could be stated that it was wrongly raised. Moreover, the
pre-summoning evidence is silent with regard to this bill and
mens rea on the part of the accused is not shown and
established. Same would be the position with regard to the
bill/invoice of Rs 53,215 which was as per the complaint,
sent directly to Manav Rachna International at Faridabad.
The bill/invoice is not doubted as "forged" or "false" within
the meaning of Sections 470 and 464IPC. No doubt, Adhunik
Colour Solutions is mentioned as the buyer, and Manav
Rachna International as the consignee, albeit the invoice was
issued by JIPL. Pre-summoning evidence does not help and
make out a case predicated on this bill/invoice. In the
counter-affidavit filed before us, it is alleged that since this
bill was sent to Faridabad, JIPL had added the GST in the
invoice. It is argued that had Respondent 2 complainant
supplied the goods, instead of GST, VAT as applicable in
Delhi would have been levied, as Respondent 2 complainant
was based in Delhi. This argument is rather fanciful and does
not impress us to justify summoning for the offence under
Section 471IPC. Besides, the assertion is not to be found in
the complaint, and cannot be predicated on the pre-
summoning evidence. 26. For completeness, we must record that the
appellants have placed on record the dealership agreement
dated 11-4-2012, which, inter alia states that JIPL has a
discretion to establish direct contractual relationship with
specific customers, if JIPL feels they can be served better.
Further, in such a situation, the dealer, if JIPL agrees, can
act as an intermediary. Assuming the bill/invoice had
wrongly recorded Respondent 2 complainant as the buyer, it
is not doubted that Manav Rachna International was the
consignee. At best, Respondent 2 complainant would not be
liable, had Manav Rachna International failed to pay. Non-
payment is also not alleged in the complaint or the pre-
summoning evidence. Reliance on objections vide emails
dated 4-7-2014 and 21-7-2014 are of no avail, as they are
for the period prior to 31-7-2014, when the bill/invoice was
raised. 27. It is evident from the pre-summoning evidence led
and the assertions made in the criminal complaint that the
dispute raised by Respondent 2 complainant primarily
pertains to settlement of accounts. The allegations are: These assertions, even if assumed to be correct, would not
fulfil the requirements of Section 405IPC, or for that matter Sections 420 or 471. The material on record does not reflect
and indicate that JIPL indeed had the dishonest/culpable
intention for the commission of the alleged offences under
the IPC . Unless the ingredients of aforesaid Sections of the IPC are fulfilled, the offence under Section 120-BIPC, for
criminal conspiracy, would not be made. In fact, a combined
reading of the complaint and the pre-summoning evidence
does not disclose any element of criminal conspiracy as per
Section 120-AIPC. The complaint discloses a civil dispute and
grievance relating to the claim made by JIPL. What is
challenged by Respondent 2 complainant is the demand of Rs
6,37,252.16p raised by JIPL as the amount payable till the
year ending 2016. This assertion made by JIPL is questioned
as incorrect. The demand, even if assumed to be wrong,
would not satisfy the ingredients of Section 405 , or Sections
420 or 471 IPC , so as to justify the summoning order. As
noted above, JIPL had filed a criminal case under Section
138 of the NI Act as two cheques for Rs 1,93,776 and Rs
4,99,610 issued by them, on presentation, were dishonoured
on account of "insufficient funds". 28. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the
assertions made in the complaint and the pre-summoning
evidence led by Respondent 2 complainant fail to establish
the conditions and incidence of the penal liability set out
under Sections 405, 420 and 471IPC, as the allegations
pertain to alleged breach of contractual obligations. Pertinently, this Court, in a number of cases, has noticed
 attempts made by parties to invoke jurisdiction of criminal
 courts, by filing vexatious criminal complaints by
 camouflaging allegations which were ex facie outrageous or
 pure civil claims. These attempts are not to be entertained
 and should be dismissed at the threshold. To avoid prolixity,
 we would only like to refer to the judgment of this Court
 in Thermax Ltd. v. K.M. Johny [Thermax Ltd. v. K.M. Johny,
 (2011) 13 SCC 412 : (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 650] , as it refers to
 earlier case laws in copious detail. 29. In Thermax [Thermax Ltd. v. K.M. Johny , (2011)
 13 SCC 412: (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 650] , it was pointed out
 that the court should be watchful of the difference between
 civil and criminal wrongs, though there can be situations
 where the allegations may constitute both civil and criminal
 wrongs. The court must cautiously examine the facts to
 ascertain whether they only constitute a civil wrong, as the
 ingredients of criminal wrong are missing. A conscious
 application of the said aspects is required by the Magistrate,
 as a summoning order has grave consequences of setting
 criminal proceedings in motion." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court in the subsequent judgment of USHA

CHAKRABORTY v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL2 while considering

the entire spectrum of law on civil cases being dressed with a colour

of crime has held as follows: ".... .... .... 5. Before adverting to the rival contentions with
 reference to application under Section 156(3), Cr. P.C. within
 the parameters, we think it only appropriate to refer to the
 following decisions of this Court in respect to the scope of
 exercise of power under Section 482, Cr. P.C. 2 2023 SCC OnLine SC 90 25 6. In Paramjeet Batra v. State of Uttarakhand1 , this
Court held:-- 7. In Vesa Holdings Private Limited v. State of Kerala2 ,
it was held that:-- 8. In Kapil Aggarwal v. Sanjay Sharma3 , this Court
held that Section 482 is designed to achieve the purpose of 26 ensuring that criminal proceedings are not permitted to
generate into weapons of harassment. 9. In the decision in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , a
two Judge Bench of this Court considered the statutory
provisions as also the earlier decisions and held as under:-- cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
 police officer without an order of a Magistrate as
 contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint
 are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis
 of which no prudent person can ever reach a just
 conclusion that there is sufficient ground for
 proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any
 of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act
 (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the
 institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or
 where there is a specific provision in the Code or the 27 concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the
 grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended
 with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is
 maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to
 spite him due to private and personal grudge. 10. In Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v. State of
Maharashtra5 , a three Judge Bench of this Court laid down
the following principles of law:-- (The rarest of rare cases standard in its application
 for quashing under Section 482 Cr. P.C. is not to be
 confused with the norm which has been formulated
 in the context of the death penalty, as explained
 previously by this Court); v) While examining an FIR/complaint, quashing of
 which is sought, the court cannot embark upon an
 enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or
 otherwise of the allegations made in the
 FIR/complaint; vi) Criminal proceedings ought not to be scuttled at the
 initial stage; vii) Quashing of a complaint/FIR should be an exception
 and a rarity than an ordinary rule; viii) Ordinarily, the courts are barred from usurping the
 jurisdiction of the police, since the two organs of the
 State operate in two specific spheres of activities.
 The inherent power of the court is, however,
 recognised to secure the ends of justice or prevent
 the above of the process by Section 482 Cr. P.C. ix) The functions of the judiciary and the police are
 complementary, not overlapping; x) Save in exceptional cases where non-interference
 would result in miscarriage of justice, the Court and
 the judicial process should not interfere at the stage
 of investigation of offences; xi) Extraordinary and inherent powers of the Court do
 not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the Court to
 act according to its whims or caprice; xii) The first information report is not an encyclopaedia
 which must disclose all facts and details relating to
 the offence reported. Therefore, when the
 investigation by the police is in progress, the court
 should not go into the merits of the allegations in the
 FIR. Police must be permitted to complete the
 investigation. It would be premature to pronounce
 the conclusion based on hazy facts that the
 complaint/FIR does not deserve to be investigated or
 that it amounts to abuse of process of law. During or
 after investigation, if the investigating officer finds
 that there is no substance in the application made by
 the complainant, the investigating officer may file an
 appropriate report/summary before the learned
 Magistrate which may be considered by the learned
 Magistrate in accordance with the known procedure; xiii) The power under Section 482 Cr. P.C. is very wide,
 but conferment of wide power requires the court to
 be cautious. It casts an onerous and more diligent
 duty on the court; xiv) However, at the same time, the court, if it thinks fit,
 regard being had to the parameters of quashing and
 the self-restraint imposed by law, more particularly
 the parameters laid down by this Court in the cases
 of R.P. Kapur (supra) and Bhajan Lal (supra), has
 the jurisdiction to quash the FIR/complaint; and xv)
 When a prayer for quashing the FIR is made by the
 alleged accused, the court when it exercises the
 power under Section 482 Cr. P.C., only has to
 consider whether or not the allegations in the FIR
 disclose the commission of a cognizable offence and
 is not required to consider on merits whether the
 allegations make out a cognizable offence or not and
 the court has to permit the investigating
 agency/police to investigate the allegations in the
 FIR." 11. We will now, carefully scan the application filed by
the respondent herein which was forwarded for investigation
under Section 156(3), Cr. P.C. to consider whether the
appellant is justified in taking up the contention that the
allegations raised thereunder did not contain the ingredients
to constitute the alleged offences or whether the respondent
had made out a prima facie case for investigation. In that
regard it is worthwhile to take note of the fact that the
respondent herein has alleged commission of offences under Sections 323 , 384 , 406 , 423 , 467 , 468 , 420 and 120B , IPC against the appellants.
We will refer to the ingredient to constitute such offences to
consider the said question. 12. The basic requirements/ingredients to bring home
the accusations under the alleged offences are hereunder:-- Offence of criminal breach of trust punishable
under Section 406 , IPC. (i) Entrustment of the property or any dominion
 over property with accusation; (ii) The person
 entrusted dishonestly misappropriating or
 converting to his own use that property; or
 dishonestly using or disposing that property in
 violation of any direction of law prescribing the
 mode in which such trust is to be discharged or
 of any legal contract, express or implied, which
 he has made touching the discharge of such
 trust or willfully causing sufferance to any other
 person so to do. Offence punishable under Section 423 , IPC. The essential ingredients to constitute an
offence under Section 423 , IPC is that the sale
deed or deed subjecting an immovable property
to a charge was contained a false statement
relating to the consideration or relating to the
persons or whose use or benefit, it was intended
to operate. Thus, it is evident that Section 423 , IPC deals with twin specific frauds
in the matter of execution of deeds or
instruments of transfer or charge, idest, (i) false
recital as to consideration or false recital as to
the name of beneficiary. Offence punishable under Section 467 , IPC. Virtually, the offence under Section 467 is
an aggravated form of the offence under Section 466 , IPC. The essential ingredients to
constitute the offence punishable under this
Section are (i) commission of forgery; (ii) that
such commission of forgery must be in relation
to a document purporting to be (a) a valuable 31 property; or (b) a will; or (c) an authority to
 adopt a son; or (d) which purports to give
 authority to any person to make or transfer any
 valuable security; or (e) the receive the
 principle, interest or dividends thereon; or (f) to
 receive or deliver any money, movable property
 or valuable security, or any document purporting
 to be an acquittance or receipt acknowledging
 the payment of money, or (g) an acquittance or
 receipt for the delivery of any movable property
 or valuable security. Offence punishable under Section 468 , IPC. (i) Commission of forgery, (ii) that he did so
 intending that the document or electronic record
 forged shall be used for the purpose of
 cheating. Offence punishable under Section 420 , IPC. To constitute the said offence there must be
 deception i.e., the accused must have deceived
 someone; that by such deception the accused must
 induce a person (i) to deliver any property; or (ii) to
 make, alter, destroy a whole or part of the valuable
 security or anything which is signed or sealed and
 which is capable of being converted into a valuable
 property; or (iii) that the accused must have done so
 dishonestly. The offence punishable under Section
 120B , IPC, to constitute criminal conspiracy, there
 must be agreement between two or more persons.
 The agreement should be to do or cause to be done
 some illegal act, or some act which is not illegal, by
 illegal means, provided that where the agreement is
 other than one to commit an offence, the prosecution
 must further prove; or (iv) that some act besides the
 agreement was done by or more of the parties in
 pursuance of it. 13. Now, the question is whether the allegations in
the aforesaid application are sufficient to constitute the
alleged offences. 14. We have already extracted the said
application filed by the respondent against the
appellants in its entirety. At the outset, it is to be
noted that in the affidavit accompanying the
application, the respondent has stated thus : - "I have
not placed this incident before any Court heretofore".
In the application, obviously, it is stated that he is one
of the trustees of Bagla Sundari Memorial Trust at
Basunagar Madhyagram and under the said trust there
is a high school by name of Rose Bank Educare and he
is the Secretary of the said school. The recital in
paragraph 2 of the application filed by the respondent
would reveal his case that the accused persons kept
him in dark and without giving any information by
strengthening the said trust deed illegally got the
same registered on 12.07.2016 and removed him from
the said post. It is in this context that the aforesaid
statement in the aforesaid affidavit assumes
relevance. It is the case of the appellants that in
regard to his removal from the post of Secretary of the
school, the respondent had instituted title suit No. 363
of 2015, praying therein for a declaration that he is the
Secretary of the school and the said suit is still
pending. Despite the institution of the said suit and its
pendency before the First Court of Civil Judge, Junior
Division, Barasat the respondent made such a
statement in the affidavit. That apart, what is stated in
the application is that he is the Secretary of the
school, run by the trust. 15. The materials on record pertaining to the
said pleadings instituted in the Civil Suit, produced in
this proceeding would reveal that the respondent was
in fact ousted from the membership of the trust. In the
counter affidavit filed in this proceeding, the
respondent has virtually admitted the pendency of the
suit filed against his removal from the post of
Secretary and the trusteeship and its pendency. The
factum of passing of adverse orders in the
interlocutory applications in the said Civil Suit as also
the prima facie finding and conclusion arrived at by
the Civil Court that the respondent stands removed 33 from the post of Secretary and also from the
trusteeship are also not disputed therein. Then, the
question is why would the respondent conceal those
relevant aspects? The indisputable and undisputed
facts (admitted in the counter-affidavit by the
respondent) would reveal the existence of the civil
dispute on removal of the respondent from the post of
Secretary of the school as also from the trusteeship.
Obviously, it can only be taken that since the removal
from the office of the Secretary and the trusteeship
was the causative incident, he concealed the pendency
of the civil suit to cover up the civil nature of the
dispute. 16. By non-disclosure the respondent has, in troth,
concealed the existence of a pending civil suit between him
and the appellants herein before a competent civil court
which obviously is the causative incident for the respondent's
allegation of perpetration of the aforesaid offences against
the appellants. We will deal with it further and also its impact
a little later. There cannot be any doubt with respect to the
position that in order to cause registration of an F.I.R. and
consequential investigation based on the same the petition
filed under Section 156(3) , Cr.P.C., must satisfy the
essential ingredients to attract the alleged offences. In other
words, if such allegations in the petition are vague and are
not specific with respect to the alleged offences it cannot
lead to an order for registration of an F.I.R. and investigation
on the accusation of commission of the offences alleged. As
noticed hereinbefore, the respondent alleged commission of
offences under Sections 323 , 384 , 406 , 423 , 467 , 468 , 420 and 120B , IPC against the appellants. A bare perusal of
the said allegation and the ingredients to attract them, as
adverted to hereinbefore would reveal that the allegations
are vague and they did not carry the essential ingredients to
constitute the alleged offences. There is absolutely no
allegation in the complaint that the appellants herein had
caused hurt on the respondent so also, they did not reveal a
case that the appellants had intentionally put the respondent
in fear of injury either to himself or another or by putting
him under such fear or injury, dishonestly induced him to
deliver any property or valuable security. The same is the
position with respect to the alleged offences punishable 34 under Sections 406, 423, 467, 468, 420 and 120 B, IPC .
The ingredients to attract the alleged offence referred to
hereinbefore and the nature of the allegations contained in
the application filed by the respondent would undoubtedly
make it clear that the respondent had failed to make specific
allegation against the appellants herein in respect of the
aforesaid offences. The factual position thus would reveal
that the genesis as also the purpose of criminal proceedings
are nothing but the aforesaid incident and further that the
dispute involved is essentially of civil nature. The appellants
and the respondents have given a cloak of criminal offence in
the issue. In such circumstance when the respondent had
already resorted to the available civil remedy and it is
pending, going by the decision in Paramjit Batra (supra), the
High Court would have quashed the criminal proceedings to
prevent the abuse of the process of the Court but for the
concealment. 17. In the aforesaid circumstances, coupled with
the fact that in respect of the issue involved, which is
of civil nature, the respondent had already approached
the jurisdictional civil court by instituting a civil suit
and it is pending, there can be no doubt with respect
to the fact that the attempt on the part of the
respondent is to use the criminal proceedings as
weapon of harassment against the appellants. The
indisputable facts that the respondent has filed the
pending title suit in the year 2015, he got no case that
he obtained an interim relief against his removal from
the office of Secretary of the School Managing
Committee as also the trusteeship, that he filed the
stated application for an order for investigation only in
April, 2017 together with absence of a case that
despite such removal he got a right to get informed of
the affairs of the school and also the trust, would only
support the said conclusion. For all these reasons, we
are of the considered view that this case invites
invocation of the power under Section 482 Cr. P.C. to
quash the FIR registered based on the direction of the
Magistrate Court in the afore-stated application and all
further proceeding in pursuance thereof. Also, we have
no hesitation to hold that permitting continuance of
the criminal proceedings against the appellants in the 35 aforesaid circumstances would result in abuse of the
 process of Court and also in miscarriage of justice." (Emphasis supplied ) The said judgment is again followed in NARESH KUMAR v. STATE

OF KARNATAKA3 wherein the Apex Court has held as follows: ".... .... .... 5. Under these circumstances, we are of the
 considered view that this is a case where the inherent
 powers should have been exercised by the High Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code as the powers
 are there to stop the abuse of the process and to secure the
 ends of justice. 6. In the case of Paramjeet Batra v. State of
 Uttarakhand , (2013) 11 SCC 673, this Court recognized that
 although the inherent powers of a High Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be
 exercised sparingly, yet the High Court must not hesitate in
 quashing such criminal proceedings which are essentially of a
 civil nature. This is what was held: (emphasis supplied) 7. Relying upon the decision in Paramjeet
Batra (supra), this Court in Randheer Singh v. State of
U.P. , (2021) 14 SCC 626, observed that criminal proceedings
cannot be taken recourse to as a weapon of harassment. In Usha Chakraborty v. State of West Bengal , 2023 SCC
OnLine SC 90, relying upon Paramjeet Batra (supra) it was
again held that where a dispute which is essentially of a civil
nature, is given a cloak of a criminal offence, then such
disputes can be quashed, by exercising the inherent powers
under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 8. Essentially, the present dispute between the
parties relates to a breach of contract. A mere breach
of contract, by one of the parties, would not attract
prosecution for criminal offence in every case, as held
by this Court in Sarabjit Kaur v. State of
Punjab , (2023) 5 SCC 360. Similarly, dealing with the
distinction between the offence of cheating and a mere
breach of contractual obligations, this Court, in Vesa
Holdings (P) Ltd. v. State of Kerala , (2015) 8 SCC 293,
has held that every breach of contract would not give
rise to the offence of cheating, and it is required to be
shown that the accused had fraudulent or dishonest
intention at the time of making the promise. 9. In the case at hand, the dispute between the
parties was not only essentially of a civil nature but in
this case the dispute itself stood settled later as we
have already discussed above. We see no criminal
element here and consequently the case here is
nothing but an abuse of the process. We therefore
allow the appeal and set aside the order of the High
Court dated 02.12.2020. The criminal proceedings
arising out of FIR No. 113 of 2017 will hereby stand
quashed." (Emphasis supplied) 37 The Apex Court in NARESH KUMAR (supra) holds that the High

Court should have exercised the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. to stop the abuse of the process of law and to secure

ends of justice. The facts therein was also a case which were

dressed with a colour of crime and was relating to breach of

contract. 12. In the light of the judgments rendered by the Apex Court,

it becomes necessary for this Court to interfere in such cases, even

if cases are at the stage of investigation, to undo the patent

injustice that would ensue, if further proceedings are permitted to

continue. The issue, in the case at hand, is purely civil in nature

and is dressed with a colour of crime. There may be cases, of

situations where allegations may constitute both civil and criminal

wrongs. On perusal of the complaint, documents appended to the

petition and the documents produced by the complainant, the

unmistakable inference would be that the issue at hand is purely

civil in nature, as it is arising out of agreements of sale which are

pending before the civil Court in O.S.Nos.230 and 231 of 2021

between the same parties. Therefore, I deem it appropriate to 38 consider this to be a case which would fit in the 7 postulates laid

down by the Apex court in the case of STATE OF HARYANA v. BHAJAN LAL4 which is followed by the Apex Court even today. The Apex Court in the case of BHAJAN LAL has held as follows: ".... .... .... 102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the
 various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV
 and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a
 series of decisions relating to the exercise of the
 extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent
 powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have
 extracted and reproduced above, we give the following
 categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power
 could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of
 any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, though
 it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly
 defined and sufficiently channelised and inflexible guidelines
 or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad
 kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised. (1) Where the allegations made in the first
 information report or the complaint, even if they are
 taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety
 do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out
 a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report
 and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not
 disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by
 police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except
 under an order of a Magistrate within the purview of Section
 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR
 or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the 4 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 39 same do not disclose the commission of any offence and
 make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a
 cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable
 offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer
 without an order of a Magistrate as contemplated under
 Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on
 the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a
 just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for
 proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any
 of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under
 which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution
 and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a
 specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing
 efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
 attended with mala fide and/or where the proceeding
 is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to
 spite him due to private and personal grudge." (Emphasis supplied) 13. In the light of the preceding analysis, the criminal petition

deserves to succeed. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2022 also stands disposed. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ