Ref	: Order No. 521895 Dt.[protected] – Job Search Guidance with Job Thought Report Course I am writing to express my deep concern and dissatisfaction regarding the recent services provided by Sh. Virendra of your company, specifically concerning the misrepresentation of charges and the fraudulent acquisition of payment. 	I purchased your “Application Booster Package” after paying Rs.3, 757.00 (Rs.3, 099.00 + Rs.557.82 : GST) on 23-Mar-2024. (Order No. : 521726_Txn Id : IN20240323_961352_164256) 	Today at around 10:33 am, I got a call from the person who sold me your said product & fixed a appointment schedule for 4:00 pm for my having a discussion with your other team members for helping me to find a job as per my need & capability. -	I was waiting for a call from your side since 4:00 pm but received the call at 4.25 pm. The caller introduced himself as Sh. Virendra (Mob. No. [protected]) & stated that he was assigned as ‘Relationship Manager’ for helping me to get a job & also intimated his e-Mail Id. During the course of talk; he took information from me with regards to my career and otherwise & also advised me the necessity of two steps to be taken from his side in which I should co-operate. -	During the talk he stated the details of two steps is to be taken; first to prepare my Profile as per current need of their corporate client & secondly I have had to participate in an on-line test something like ‘Career Assessment Test’. -	He further stated that I had have to pay some fee for these. -	I asked him how much I had to pay. -	He replied that he didn’t know exactly. The Finance Dep’t of Shine.com will send the invoice & link for payment. However it would be around 5k to 6k plus GST. -	I asked specifically whether I had to pay anything more after this for which Sh. Virendra categorically replied “NO”. -	When I received a Performa Invoice of your Product “Job Search Guidance with Job Thought Report Course” for Total Rs.6, 475.00 (Rs.5, 899.00 – Rs.412.00 : Discount + Rs.987.66 : GST); I make payment of same. When I was making payment; there was some issue with Internet & some time was taken. -	After making payment; I asked Sh. Virendra to confirm whether payment was received at their end. He asked me that whether I make payment of both the invoices? -	I was surprised which second invoice I had to pay. I paid Rs.6, 475.00 as per talk with him & why another payment is to be made. I asked Sh. Virendra; why I had to pay another payment when he had categorically stated that no further payment is to be made for availing his service as he explained me during his discussion. -	I felt that somehow Sh. Virendra is befooling me. Either it is some sort of ‘Cyber Fraud’ or someone is fraudulently misusing the site of Shine.com. I asked him to please refund my payment as I don’t want to get his services. In the start; he had deceived me by misrepresenting the charges. What would he do in future was not difficult to understand. -	After some heated discussion, I cut the phone but he kept repeatedly calling me for making next/another payment. He kept repeating that without his assistance I could not find any job. There are such & such drawbacks in my profile, etc. All the time I had to disconnect my call to save my time being wasted. -	Again after some time; someone started calling from Mobile. No. [protected]. He introduced me as some senior of Sh. Virendra. He do started advising me for making next/another payment. I requested him that either he simply helped me in getting my money refunded back or not to call me. But he kept calling after my disconnecting the call. After 3-4 calls; my wife picked up the phone & advised him to stop calling. After that we didn’t received the call. Ref	: Order No. 521895 Dt.[protected] – Job Search Guidance with Job Thought Report Course Dear Sir/Madam I am writing to express my deep concern and dissatisfaction regarding the recent services provided by Sh. Virendra of your company, specifically concerning the misrepresentation of charges and the fraudulent acquisition of payment. 	I purchased your “Application Booster Package” after paying Rs.3, 757.00 (Rs.3, 099.00 + Rs.557.82 : GST) on 23-Mar-2024. (Order No. : 521726_Txn Id : IN20240323_961352_164256) 	Today at around 10:33 am, I got a call from the person who sold me your said product & fixed a appointment schedule for 4:00 pm for my having a discussion with your other team members for helping me to find a job as per my need & capability. -	I was waiting for a call from your side since 4:00 pm but received the call at 4.25 pm. The caller introduced himself as Sh. Virendra (Mob. No. [protected]) & stated that he was assigned as ‘Relationship Manager’ for helping me to get a job & also intimated his e-Mail Id. During the course of talk; he took information from me with regards to my career and otherwise & also advised me the necessity of two steps to be taken from his side in which I should co-operate. -	During the talk he stated the details of two steps is to be taken; first to prepare my Profile as per current need of their corporate client & secondly I have had to participate in an on-line test something like ‘Career Assessment Test’. -	He further stated that I had have to pay some fee for these. -	I asked him how much I had to pay. -	He replied that he didn’t know exactly. The Finance Dep’t of Shine.com will send the invoice & link for payment. However it would be around 5k to 6k plus GST. -	I asked specifically whether I had to pay anything more after this for which Sh. Virendra categorically replied “NO”. -	When I received a Performa Invoice of your Product “Job Search Guidance with Job Thought Report Course” for Total Rs.6, 475.00 (Rs.5, 899.00 – Rs.412.00 : Discount + Rs.987.66 : GST); I make payment of same. When I was making payment; there was some issue with Internet & some time was taken. -	After making payment; I asked Sh. Virendra to confirm whether payment was received at their end. He asked me that whether I make payment of both the invoices? -	I was surprised which second invoice I had to pay. I paid Rs.6, 475.00 as per talk with him & why another payment is to be made. I asked Sh. Virendra; why I had to pay another payment when he had categorically stated that no further payment is to be made for availing his service as he explained me during his discussion. -	I felt that somehow Sh. Virendra is befooling me. Either it is some sort of ‘Cyber Fraud’ or someone is fraudulently misusing the site of Shine.com. I asked him to please refund my payment as I don’t want to get his services. In the start; he had deceived me by misrepresenting the charges. What would he do in future was not difficult to understand. -	After some heated discussion, I cut the phone but he kept repeatedly calling me for making next/another payment. He kept repeating that without his assistance I could not find any job. There are such & such drawbacks in my profile, etc. All the time I had to disconnect my call to save my time being wasted. -	Again after some time; someone started calling from Mobile. No. [protected]. He introduced me as some senior of Sh. Virendra. He do started advising me for making next/another payment. I requested him that either he simply helped me in getting my money refunded back or not to call me. But he kept calling after my disconnecting the call. After 3-4 calls; my wife picked up the phone & advised him to stop calling. After that we didn’t received the call. Ref	: Order No. 521895 Dt.[protected] – Job Search Guidance with Job Thought Report Course Dear Sir/Madam I am writing to express my deep concern and dissatisfaction regarding the recent services provided by Sh. Virendra of your company, specifically concerning the misrepresentation of charges and the fraudulent acquisition of payment. 	I purchased your “Application Booster Package” after paying Rs.3, 757.00 (Rs.3, 099.00 + Rs.557.82 : GST) on 23-Mar-2024. (Order No. : 521726_Txn Id : IN20240323_961352_164256) 	Today at around 10:33 am, I got a call from the person who sold me your said product & fixed a appointment schedule for 4:00 pm for my having a discussion with your other team members for helping me to find a job as per my need & capability. -	I was waiting for a call from your side since 4:00 pm but received the call at 4.25 pm. The caller introduced himself as Sh. Virendra (Mob. No. [protected]) & stated that he was assigned as ‘Relationship Manager’ for helping me to get a job & also intimated his e-Mail Id. During the course of talk; he took information from me with regards to my career and otherwise & also advised me the necessity of two steps to be taken from his side in which I should co-operate. -	During the talk he stated the details of two steps is to be taken; first to prepare my Profile as per current need of their corporate client & secondly I have had to participate in an on-line test something like ‘Career Assessment Test’. -	He further stated that I had have to pay some fee for these. -	I asked him how much I had to pay. -	He replied that he didn’t know exactly. The Finance Dep’t of Shine.com will send the invoice & link for payment. However it would be around 5k to 6k plus GST. -	I asked specifically whether I had to pay anything more after this for which Sh. Virendra categorically replied “NO”. -	When I received a Performa Invoice of your Product “Job Search Guidance with Job Thought Report Course” for Total Rs.6, 475.00 (Rs.5, 899.00 – Rs.412.00 : Discount + Rs.987.66 : GST); I make payment of same. When I was making payment; there was some issue with Internet & some time was taken. -	After making payment; I asked Sh. Virendra to confirm whether payment was received at their end. He asked me that whether I make payment of both the invoices? -	I was surprised which second invoice I had to pay. I paid Rs.6, 475.00 as per talk with him & why another payment is to be made. I asked Sh. Virendra; why I had to pay another payment when he had categorically stated that no further payment is to be made for availing his service as he explained me during his discussion. -	I felt that somehow Sh. Virendra is befooling me. Either it is some sort of ‘Cyber Fraud’ or someone is fraudulently misusing the site of Shine.com. I asked him to please refund my payment as I don’t want to get his services. In the start; he had deceived me by misrepresenting the charges. What would he do in future was not difficult to understand. -	After some heated discussion, I cut the phone but he kept repeatedly calling me for making next/another payment. He kept repeating that without his assistance I could not find any job. There are such & such drawbacks in my profile, etc. All the time I had to disconnect my call to save my time being wasted. Again after some time; someone started calling from Mobile. No. [protected]. He introduced me as some senior of Sh. Virendra. He do started advising me for making next/another payment. I requested him that either he simply helped me in getting my money refunded back or not to call me. But he the transaction details, it has become evident that the charges presented were misrepresented, and I believe I have been misled into making a payment under false pretences. Furthermore, I recently discovered that the payment made to Shine.com was acquired fraudulently. It is deeply troubling to realize that I have fallen victim to such deceptive practices, especially when seeking assistance in a crucial aspect of my career development. I demand immediate action to rectify this situation. Specifically, I request a full refund of the amount wrongfully obtained from me by Shine.com. Additionally, I urge Shine.com to conduct a thorough investigation into this matter to prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future and to uphold the integrity of your services. I expect a prompt response to this complaint, detailing the steps Shine.com will take to address the issue and provide the requested refund. Failure to do so will leave me with no choice but to escalate this matter through appropriate channels, including legal action and reporting to relevant authorities. I trust that Shine.com will take this matter seriously and work towards a swift resolution. I appreciate your attention to this urgent matter and look forward to a satisfactory resolution. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)