The Indian National Congress has promised net neutrality, privacy and protection of personal data, safeguards against surveillance, regulation against fake news, and other digital rights it will guarantee in its Elections 2019 manifesto. The Congress has promised that it keep Aadhaar voluntary but encourage it, and no person will be denied food security for want of Aadhaar. It also promises amendment of the Aadhaar Act 2016 restrict use of Aadhaar to government welfare services. Importantly, it will scrap the Niti Aayog and revive the Planning Commission.

It criticizes the BJP for demonetisation, and says that “Digital India, Startup India and Make in India have been colossal failures.” On demonetisation, it says that it “cost the people of India at least Rs. 4 lakh crores in lost output, lakhs of jobs and greater indebtedness”, and that a “poorly designed GST was implemented in a hasty and careless manner, with rules being changed haphazardly almost every day.”

All the promises it makes in relation to technology and the internet ecosystem here (see a copy appended at the bottom):

In the context of national security, Congress promised to formulate policies on data security, cyber security, financial security, communication security and security of trade routes .

The Congress has promised to undertake a universal basic income scheme for the poorest 20 percent of the population, or 5 crore families . The party believes that the size of India’s GDP and the level of Total Expenditure (Central and State Governments) will allow it to undertake the cash transfer program without affecting the goal of fiscal prudence. The main features of the Minimum Income Support Programme (MISP) or Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY) will be:

Independent panel for rollout : Congress will appoint an independent panel of eminent economists, social scientists and statisticians to oversee the design, testing, roll- out and implementation of the programme. The panel will give the go-ahead for the progression of the program through phases; the party said it will implement NYAY as a joint scheme of the central and state governments.

The Congress said it will review current GST laws with the GST 2.0 regime that will truly reflect the intent and purpose of a non-cascading, value-added, indirect tax. The party is confident that GST 2.0 will promote growth, new businesses and employment.

***

Our economy is still over-regulated. Structural problems remain. Government control and bureaucratic interference are aplenty. Regulators have morphed into controllers. There is growing interference by the courts in economic policies. The BJP Government has reversed the clock of reforms. Congress promises to undo these distortions and restore an open, liberal market economy.

“The BJP Government’s decision to abolish the Planning Commission was thoughtless and absurd.”

Congress’ manifesto for 2019:

[embeddoc url=”https://www.medianama.com/wp-content/uploads/Congress-Manifesto-2019.pdf” download=”all”]

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event