The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has circulated a draft Declaratory Ruling that would require communications carriers to strengthen their networks against unlawful access or interception. This comes two months after news reports claimed that Chinese government-backed hackers may have compromised US telecommunications infrastructure.

The Ruling interprets Section 105 of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), which requires carries to ensure that any interception of their communications is legally authorised, to mean that it also requires carriers to secure their networks from unlawful access or interception.

The FCC is also proposing that communications service providers mandatorily submit an annual certification to the FCC attesting that they have implemented a cybersecurity risk management plan. In addition, the FCC also plans on inviting comments on cybersecurity risk management requirements for communications providers.

Last month, the Commission also launched a review of cybersecurity requirements for submarine cable licenses.

A threat actor known as Salt Typhoon , allegedly backed by the Chinese government, was able to gain access to multiple American Internet Service Providers (ISPs) an may even have accessed wiretaps placed by law enforcement agencies.

Similarly, another Chinese group called Flax Typhoon has compromised a network of more than 200,000 routers, cameras and other devices, found U.S. officials .

In May and June 2023, a similar threat actor known as Storm-0558 gained access to the Microsoft Exchange Online Mailboxes of hundreds of individuals. These included high-ranking officials such as Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, United States Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China R. Nicholas Burns, and Congressman Don Bacon.

Back in India, a report from cybersecurity firm Sentinel One suggested that China was behind the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) cyber attack in 2022 , wherein hackers locked the institute’s servers and demanded a Rs 200 crore ransom.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event