SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Counterfeit Products on Giant E-Commerce Websites like Amazon, Flipkart.
DATE: 2022-12-21
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/zqz8tc/counterfeit_products_on_giant_ecommerce_websites/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello fellow Redditors,

This is not another rant post about getting duplicate products while shopping online but instead just wanted to ask a question.

So, I recently purchased woodland casual shoes and received a fake product from Flipkart, now the interesting part is every minute detail of the product has been taken care of, like the serial number, the box looks authentic, and the shoes also for the most part looks legit. Only because I have previously used the brand multiple times, was I able to understand the difference. The one thing that really stood out was the weight of the shoes. It's so damn heavy that I can't even walk for long distances. So, I have learned my lesson to only buy from the actual retail brand outlets or the brand's own website.

I was doing a little reading about this online and came across a case where a guy had ordered a Fossil watch and received the product and registered its serial number as well on the website. But it was only a year later, when he visited the service center for some repair work, that he realized the product was a fake. Even though he received a refund from Flipkart, after a lot of hassle, but the problem still remains.

But the question in my mind is why are these big brands allowing this? Even they know that fake products are being sold with their brand names printed on them at literally half the prices. So, basically, it just spoils the brand's reputation and trust. Then why are they allowing this?

If there are any employees of these organizations who are familiar with the matter, can you guys please explain? If there are any processes in place to check the authenticity of the products on websites like Flipkart and amazon? or any steps taken by companies like Puma, Adidas, and Woodland to tackle this issue?