A joint committee has been formed by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to look at the issue of phishing and cyber frauds, according to a report in the Economic Times (ET). It added that the telecom regulator has included officials from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).

Why it matters: The problem of phishing, perpetuated via unsolicited calls, has only compounded in recent years with the proliferation of new technologies, especially UPI . It has not helped that people have started to bank digitally in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic.

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

What is TRAI exploring: The committee is looking at addressing the issue of unsolicited commercial communication (UCC) through the process of whitelisting, ET explained.

What is whitelisting: It is a feature in which a user can only receive calls from numbers which have been allowed in advance. The report did not reveal how the measure will be implemented but it is likely that TRAI will identify numbers and URLs of legitimate banks and financial institutions which will then be provided to telecom operators.

TRAI’s past measures to curb spam: The telecom watchdog tried to address the problem of unsolicited calls with a do-not-disturb (DND) registry. However, it has been found that DND registration does not yield any tangible results.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event