Heard both sides. The petitioner seeks bail in Special Case No. 11 of

 2017, arising out of Agamkuan P.S. case No 44 of 2017, registered

 under Section419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 34 of the Indian Penal

 Code. Later on Section 66 (D) of the Information Technology Act

 and Section 7 , 8 , 9 , 13 (1) (a) (e) read with Section 13 (2) of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act have been added. The informant, a police officer of Agamkuan P.S.

 got information that Pawan Kumar, Atul Ranjan Sinha, who have

 been residing in the house of Late Pawan Kumar Singh situated in

 Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, Kanti Factory Road, Patna were

 circulating question papers and answer sheets of the examination

 to be held by Bihar State Staff Selection Commission (hereinafter

 referred to as the Commission) for appointment on different posts Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.47543 of 2017 (11) dt.19-04-2018 2/7 in different departments of Government of Bihar he proceeded to

 raid the room occupied by Pawan Kumar and Atul Ranjan Sinha.

 Pawan Kumar, Bipin Kumar and Nawnit Kumar were found inside

 the room and they were apprehended. The apprehended accused

 disclosed the name of Atul Ranjan Sinha, Gorelal @ Kaushik,

 Bhola @ Nitesh and others who are involved in the racket in

 leaking the question papers and transmitting the answers to

 examinees, after taking heavy amount from them. From the

 aforesaid room admit cards of different candidates, battery of blue

 tooth, printer, laptop, original marks sheet and other articles were

 recovered. The leaned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 petitioner is not named in the FIR. There is no tangible evidence to

 show the involvement of the petitioner. For the first time the name

 of petitioner figured in this case in paragraph 99 of the case diary

 as owner of A.V.N. public school where there was one of the

 centers of examination of the Commission. The wife of the

 petitioner is principal of the A.V.N. school. The petitioner is

 appointed as shorthand-typist in Science and Technology

 Department, Patna vide memo No. 1621 dated 17.06.1989. The

 petitioner is not at all involved in the functioning of the A.V.N.

 school. It is submitted that some staff of the school stated that Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.47543 of 2017 (11) dt.19-04-2018 3/7 petitioner is director of the school as on the instruction of the

 petitioner Gauri Shanker and Ram Sumer Singh were made center

 superintendent. The petitioner being a Government employee is

 neither director nor the owner of the school. There is no

 documentary evidence to show that petitioner ever functioned as

 director of the A.V.N. school. Parmeshwar Ram, the Secretary of

 Commission, along with Avinash Kumar, Data Entry Operator of

 the Commission, were arrested but they did not disclose the name

 of the petitioner although they disclosed the name of different

 persons who are involved in the racket of leaking the question

 papers and transmitting the answer sheets among the candidates

 who had paid money. Pawan Kumar made his confessional

 statement but the petitioner was also arrested and he is said to

 have confessed his guilt. The petitioner, of course, talked with

 Ram Sumer Singh, who happens to be brother-in-law of the

 petitioner, on 25.02.2017 and 31.01.2017 but this fact does not, in

 any way, show involvement of the petitioner. Gauri Shanker, one

 of the staff of A.V.N. school, disclosed that petitioner was present

 in the school before beginning of examination but tower location

 of the mobile of petitioner does not corroborate the presence of the

 petitioner in the school. Even the Chairman of Commission has

 not disclosed the name of petitioner. It is further submitted that co- Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.47543 of 2017 (11) dt.19-04-2018 4/7 accused Sajjad Ahmad has already been granted bail vide order

 passed in Cr. Misc. No. 32916 of 2017 and the petitioner deserves

 bail. On the other hand, Mr. Ajay Mishra, the learned

 Additional Public Prosecutor, submits that petitioner is one of the

 chief architects of the conspiracy in competitive examination scam

 who managed the centre of competitive examinations in his

 school. Before beginning of the examination the petitioner got the

 photographs of the question papers and he instructed the other

 staff of the school to send the question papers on different whats

 app numbers and got answer sheets. The petitioner was found

 having talked with Atal Bihari and Ram Sumer Singh on their

 mobiles. During the course of investigation, it has come that

 petitioner being director of the A.V.N. school is also deeply

 involved in leaking the question papers for the students appearing

 in the competitive examination for appointment. The prayer for

 bail of other accused persons have already been rejected by this

 court. The prayer for bail of Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of the

 Commission has already been rejected by the Supreme Court in

 Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No. 1855 of 2018. The prayer for

 bail of accused Vinit Kumar has also been permitted to be

 withdrawn by the Apex Court after some argument. It is further Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.47543 of 2017 (11) dt.19-04-2018 5/7 submitted that even the bail granted to accused Sajjad Ahmad has

 already been cancelled vide order dated 28.03.2018 passed in Cr.

 Misc. No. 60714 of 2017, after considering all the facts that he got

 bail on concealment of facts. Perused the records and the case diary. The petitioner is, of course, not named in the FIR.

 For the first time the police officer of Agamkuan P.S. got

 information that Pawan Kumar and Atul Ranjan Sinha were

 distributing the questions and answer sheets to the examinees of

 the Commission. The examination was scheduled to be held in

 four phases. When the house of Pawan Kumar and Atul Ranjan

 Sinha was raided, Pawan Kumar, Bipin Kumar and Nawnit Kumar

 were apprehended and they disclosed the names of other accused

 persons. During the course of investigation, many other persons

 came and informed the I.O. that they also received the whats app

 messages of answer sheets on their mobiles with regard to

 question papers of the examination to be held on 05.02.2017. It

 transpired that Avinash Kumar, Data Entry Operator of the

 commission, Parmeshwar Ram, Secretary of the Commission, are

 also involved in leaking the question papers. They disclosed the

 names of other accused persons who are indulged in circulating

 the question papers and answer sheets among the candidates of Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.47543 of 2017 (11) dt.19-04-2018 6/7 their choice who had paid money to them. It also transpired during

 the course of investigation that Ramashish Rai, the petitioner,

 director of A.V.N. school, and his relative, Ram Sumer Singh, is

 also involved in the scam. They used to print out the questions

 before beginning of the examination and sent whats app messages

 to different persons of his gang. Thereafter, they got whats app

 messages of answer sheets and circulate the same to different

 candidates. On the basis of disclosure made by petitioner and his

 brother-in-law, Ram Sumer Singh, who was working in the

 school, name of Gauri Shanker, Anand, Om Prakash, Rishideo,

 Atal Bihari and Mukesh Kumar came to surface. It further

 transpired during the course of investigation that several

 candidates got question papers and answer sheets before the

 scheduled time of examination. From perusal of entire case diary,

 call detail report and entire report of Forensic Science Laboratory

 after examination of whats app messages, it appears that all the

 accused persons including the petitioner, Ramashish Yadav, were

 in regular touch with each other before and after commencement

 of the examination. It appears that petitioner is also one of the members

 of a gang which involved in competitive examination scam.

 Petitioner has also got criminal antecedent and he is accused in Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.47543 of 2017 (11) dt.19-04-2018 7/7 Special case No. 21 of 2016 lodged almost on the similar

 allegation. Considering the facts aforesaid and nature of

 allegation made against the petitioner, I am not inclined to enlarge

 the petitioner on bail. Accordingly, the same is rejected. (Prabhat Kumar Jha, J)
BKS/-