New Custom House,
Near IGI Airport,
New Delhi-110037. Appearance

Ms. Vibha Narang, Advocate - for the Appellant.

Shri Nagendra Yadav, Authorized Representative - for the
Respondent. CORAM : HON'BLE MR. P.V. SUBBA RAO, MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
 HON'BLE DR. RACHNA GUPTA, MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

 DATE OF HEARING : 12/10/2022
 DATE OF DECISION : 28/10/2022 Final Order No. 51026/2022 P.V. Subba Rao

 This appeal is filed by M/s Sitex International, New Delhi 1

assailing the order in original 2 dated 04.12.2020 whereby the

appellant's license under the Courier Imports and Exports

(Electronic Declaration and Processing) Regulations 3 , 2010 was

1 the appellant
2 impugned order
3 Regulations 2 C/50619/2021

revoked and the security deposit made by the appellant was

forfeited and a penalty of Rs. 50,000/- was imposed on the

appellant. The operative part of the impugned order is as follows: (ii) I order for forfeiture of security amount of
 Rs.10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lacs only) deposited by
 M/s Sitex International, at the time of issue/renewal
 of their Courier Registration, for contravention of
 provisions of Regulations 12(1)(i), 12(1)(iii),
 12(1)(iv), 12(1)(v), 12(1)(vii), & 12(1)(x) of the
 CIER, 2010 in terms of Regulation 13(1) of the CIER,
 2010. (iii) I impose a penalty of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty
 Thousand only) on M/s Sitex International, under the
 provisions of Regulation 14 of CIER, 2010." 2. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant and learned

authorised representative for the Revenue and have perused the

records. 3. Goods can be imported or exported through the normal

channels such as by air or ship or through couriers. If goods are

imported through normal channels, the importer usually engages a

customs broker who files the Bill of Entry as per documents

provided by the importer and once the goods were cleared through

the customs after payment of duty the importer takes the goods

away. When goods are imported through courier the processes are

slightly different inasmuch as the courier not only processes the

clearance of the goods through the customs but actually receives

the goods from the overseas exporter, transports them to India, 3 C/50619/2021

clears them through the customs and further delivers them to the

consignee in India at his address. The Regulations regulating this

process provide for licensing of couriers who only can handle this

work. In such imports, after the goods are brought into the

country the courier has to obtain Know Your Customer4 documents

from the consignees and their authorisation and thereafter file

courier bills of entry in respect of each of the consignments. After

the goods are assessed by customs, the courier pays the customs

duty and clears the goods and takes them to the premises of the

importer and delivers them and collects the customs duty which

was paid by the courier while clearing the goods. Thus, the courier

manages the entire chain from the overseas consignor to the Indian

consignee through the customs. 4. The appellant is a proprietorship firm which has been issued a

license under Regulation 10. In 2019, the appellant filed 37

couriers bills of entry all dated 10.10.2019 at the courier terminal

in Delhi. On examination of the goods in respect of these 37 bills

of entry, customs officers found that the goods were declared to be

household items while they were actually food supplements and

ladies suits imported in commercial quantities. It is pertinent to

point out here that any person who wishes to import goods into

India on commercial basis requires an Import Export Code (IEC).

Further, if food supplements are to be imported for trade, clearance

from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) is

required. By declaring the goods as household items, both these

requirements were attempted to be circumvented.

4 KYC 4 C/50619/2021 5. The appellant's main business is in Chennai and the

proprietor of the appellant firm is Shri A. Kader Riswan. He

extended his business to Delhi and appointed one Shri Azarouddin

Ansari Kadar as the Assistant Manager (Delhi). Shri Azarouddin

Ansari had filed the 37 courier bills of entry in the name of the

appellant firm declaring the imported goods as household items.

The matter was investigated and it was found that 37 names of the

consignees in the bills of entry were wrong. These 37 "consignees"

had earlier imported some goods through the appellant and,

therefore, the appellant had their details including their KYC

documents. Using these details, goods were imported in the name

of these 37 consignees all of who confirmed that the goods did not

belong to them. Investigation revealed that the entire consignment

belonged to one Shri Mukesh Rana who engaged the appellant to

clear the goods. Statement of Shri Azarouddin Ansari was recorded

by the officers on 14.10.2019 who confirmed that he had filed the

bills of entry for the 37 consignments and that they had full

knowledge that the imported goods were commercial goods and not

household goods as declared on the Bills of Entry. He further

stated that Shri Mukesh Rana had contacted him and offered Rs.

200/- per kg. to clear these goods in the guise of household goods

whereas for clearance of usual household goods they get only Rs.

53/- per kg. He further clarified that he would hand over the goods

to Shri Mukesh Rana after clearance from customs as per the

convenience of Shri Mukesh Rana. 6. Shri Mukesh Rana, in his statement dated 14.10.2019

confirmed that he had contacted Shri Azarouddin Ansari Kadar to 5 C/50619/2021

clear the goods. He further said that the owner of these goods was

one Shri Anmol Krishna Murthy - a resident of Mumbai, who would

give him Rs. 250/- per kg as clearance charges of which he would

pay Rs. 200/- per kg to Shri Azarouddin Ansari Kadar. After

clearance of the goods from customs he was going to deliver the

goods to Shri Anmol Krishna Murthy at godown situated at Bagdola

Road, near Sector-8, Dwarka Metro Station, Dwarka. These

premises were checked by the officers and were found locked. The

customs officers sealed it and later opened it and searched and

found only one desktop computer with printer. 7. Shri A. Kader Riswan, proprietor of the importer firm, in his

statement dated 17.10.2019, said that he resides in Tamil Nadu

where he has another office. He admitted that it was in his

knowledge that the goods to be imported under the Master Airway

Bill were commercial goods and not household goods. He further

said that the goods belong the Shri Mukesh Rana who he knew

through Shri Azarouddin Ansari Kadar. 8. Statement of Shri Anmol Krishna Murthy, the alleged owner

was recorded on 19.11.2019 who confirmed that the goods were

booked by him from Dubai through M/s Natbro Logistics LLC, Dubai

in which he is partner. He also confirmed that he engaged Shri

Mukesh Rana to clear the goods through the courier terminal

through any courier agency and that Shri Mukesh Rana, in turn,

gave the clearance work to the appellant. He also confirmed that

the clearance charges for the shipment was fixed at Rs. 250/- per

kg with Shri Mukesh Rana which included the customs duty, the

custodian charges and clearance charges and that he had paid this 6 C/50619/2021

amount to Shri Mukesh Rana in cash at New Delhi. After seeing the

37 courier bills of entry, he appended his signature on them. He

also confirmed that he knew that the goods were food

supplements, ladies suits and NOT household goods as declared in

the bills of entry. He further confirmed that after clearance of the

goods through the customs they were to be delivered at the

premises of his firm M/s SGK Express, Plot No. 48, Village Bagdola,

New Delhi. He confirmed that he was the true owner of the goods

and Shri Mukesh Rana arranged 37 different names and addresses

of consignors and consignees through Sitex International (the

appellant) and sent those details to him at his Dubai office. He

actually does not know any of these consignors or consignees.

However, the documents were prepared accordingly, and addresses

were affixed accordingly on the cartons in the names and addresses

provided by Shri Mukesh Rana. On being asked about the payment

for the goods to the foreign supplier, he said that he had sent the

goods through his own Dubai based company and did not pay any

amount to his company for the goods. He further confirmed them

that he does not have any FSSAI registration for the imported

goods. 9. After completing the investigation and following due process,

the order-in-original dated 28.2.2020 was passed by the Additional

Commissioner of Customs whereby the goods were confiscated the

duty was re-assessed and penalties were imposed upon Shri Anmol

Krishna Murthy who claimed to be the owner of the goods. 7 C/50619/2021 10. This order of the Additional Commissioner formed the basis

for the present proceedings against the appellant under the

Regulations and the issue of the impugned order. 11. On behalf of the appellant, the learned counsel made the

following submissions: (ii) On examination, the goods were found to be mis- declared as household items when, infact, they were

 food supplements and ladies suits. The consignments

 belonged to Shri Mukesh Rana who engaged Shri

 Azarouddin Ansari Kadar who cleared the goods. Shri

 Azarouddin Ansari Kadar is no more an employee of the

 appellant as he has been expelled from the firm for

 misusing the firm's name for import of the goods. (iii) The impugned order was passed without appreciating

 legal provisions and facts and circumstances of the case

 with pre-determined state of mind to confirm the

 allegations and hence must be set aside. (iv) Shri Anmol Krishna Murthy issued a letter to the

 appellant claiming mis-declaration on their part. (v) There is no violation of Regulations 12(1)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), (vii) and (x) of the CIER 2010 by the appellant

 firm. The alleged activity was conducted by the 8 C/50619/2021

 appellant's employee Shri A. Kadar Riswan without any

 knowledge or consent or connivance of the appellant

 firm. Therefore, it was a malafide act by the employee

 for personal motive and the appellant cannot be held

 responsible for it. (vi) There is no negligence or lack of supervision of the

 employee but the employee breached the trust and

 carried on the work in his own interest. (vii) The appellant had no knowledge or information about

 the malicious import of goods in commercial quantity

 and mis-declaration with intent to evade payment of

 customs duty. The appellant was informed about the

 consignment of household goods under various names

 and accordingly, filed requisite details were mailed to

 the office for filing the courier bills of entry. The

 appellant had no connivance or knowledge or any

 intention to conduct committed a fraud. (viii) Neither Shri Mukesh Rana nor on Shri Anmol

 Krishnamurthy had stated that the appellant had any

 knowledge or was engaged by them. Shri Azarouddin

 Riswan was assigned the work who with a malafide

 intention without consent of the appellant filed the bills

 of entry. (ix) Without prejudice to the above submissions, the

 regulations do not provide for forfeiture of the security

 deposit. C/50619/2021 (x) Revocation proceedings are very harsh which effect the

 livelihood of the appellant who has been out of work

 more than one year or above. Therefore, a lenient

 approach must be taken. (xi) The appellant was not granted opportunity to defend

 the case by the inquiry officer against which the

 appellant filed written complaint to the learned

 Commissioner. 12. Learned counsel relies on the following case laws: 14. Learned authorised representative for the Revenue supported

the impugned order and submitted as follows: 15. We have considered the submissions made by both sides. It

is undisputed that commercial goods whose import requires an

Import Export Code (IEC) and also clearance and FSSAI (in case of

food supplements) were imported through 37 bills of entry filed by

the appellant. These were filed in the name of 37 different people

who had nothing to do with nor any knowledge of the imports.

The appellant had in its possession the details of these people

which it misused. The real owner of the goods was Shri Anmol

Krishna Murthy who, in his statement, admitted that the details of

the consignors and consignees indicated in the bills of entry and on

the cartons were provided to him by Shri Azarouddin Kadar of the

appellant firm. Based on these details, he exported the goods to

India through his own firm in Dubai in the names of these

consignees who had nothing to do with the consignments. As per

his statement, he hired Shri Mukesh Rana to get the goods cleared

and paid Rs.250/- per kg for his services including the customs

duty. Shri Mukesh Rana, in turn, contacted Shri Azarouddin Kadar

of the appellant firm who provided the names and details of

consignors and consignees and accordingly, the goods were

shipped. However, since the imports were made through courier,

the appellant firm itself has to file the courier of bills of entry for

clearance of goods and after clearance deliver the goods to the

consignees. Shri Krishna Murthy said all goods were to be

delivered to him in Dwarka at his place. Shri Mukesh Rana also 12 C/50619/2021

confirmed the same statement and confirmed that he received

250/- per kg to clear the goods from Shri Krishna Murthy of which

he would pay Rs. 200/- to Shri Kadar. Shri Kadar also confirmed

the same facts in his statement and said that instead of Rs. 53/-

per kg which they would usually get clearance of household goods,

they were getting Rs.200/- per kg for these goods. He also

confirmed that after clearance he would only deliver the goods to

Shri Mukesh Rana as per his convenience and not to the consignees

indicated in the Bills of Entry. Shri Mukesh Rana also confirmed

that after receiving the goods he would deliver them to Shri Krishna

Murthy at his premises in Dwarka. Thus, we find there is no

inconsistency in the statements made by the three persons with

respect to the mode of operations. 16. The main contention of the learned counsel for the appellant

is that simply because an employee of the appellant had committed

an error or fraud, the licence of the appellant should not be

revoked. This statement cannot be accepted. The employee of the

courier has no locus standi in getting the goods cleared through the

customs. The licence is issued to the appellant and the appellant

has to get the goods cleared. How many persons the appellant

employs and what work he gets done through them is up to the

appellant. So long as an employee is acting on behalf of the

appellant, the responsibility for such actions lies on the appellant.

It is not the case that somebody hacked into the system and

misused the credentials of the appellant to file the bills of entry.

They were filed by the appellant's own employee Shri Azarouddin

Kadar Riswan who was employed as Assistant Manager by the 13 C/50619/2021

appellant to manage its business in Delhi. Therefore, the full

responsibility for any action of the employees of the appellant rests

on the appellant. 17. Further, we find that in his statement Shri Azarouddin Kadar,

proprietor of the appellant, admitted that the goods imported under

Master Airway Bill No. 17647441494 were commercial goods and

not household goods. He further admitted that the goods belong to

Shri Mukesh Rana who he knew through his employee Shri A.

Kadar. Thus, this is clearly not a case where the appellant had no

knowledge whatsoever of the illegal and benami imports. These

were will within the knowledge of the proprietor of the appellant

firm. These facts have been recorded in paragraph 4.2 of the

order-in-original of the order of the Additional Commissioner dated

28.2.2020 which is relied upon document for the present

proceedings. Thus, we do not accept the proposition that the

appellant cannot be penalised for the action of its employee, both

for the reason that as the principal the appellant is responsible for

the action committed by its own employee and also for the reason

that nature of the imports were fully within the knowledge of the

proprietor of the appellant itself. Learned counsel had laid

emphasis on the Aramex India Pvt. Ltd. We find that the facts of

that case were different as it has been recorded in paragraph 7.1 of

that order that the appellant has denied any knowledge of the

alleged conspiracy and offence committed by certain persons,

which included some employees of the appellant. This lack of

knowledge was not in dispute in that case . In other words, that

was clearly a case where the appellant had no knowledge 14 C/50619/2021

whatsoever of the fraud committed in that case . The present case,

is quite different as the appellant had full knowledge that

commercial goods were being imported in the Master Airway bill,

but instead bills of entry were filed in the name of various

consignors and consignees. Further, these names of so called

consignors and so called consignees were provided by the appellant

itself through Shri Mukesh Rana to Shri Krishna Murthy who is the

master mind and accordingly consignments were labelled and

packed. Thus, the appellant was fully involved in the process

starting from deciding the names of the consignors and consignees

in whose names the goods should be imported up to filing the Bills

of Entry. Had it succeeded in clearing the consignments, it would

have delivered the goods to Shri Mukesh Rana as per his

convenience and not to the consignees. 18. The profit gained through this operation is also clear as Shri

Azharuddin has confirmed that instead of Rs. 53/- per kg which

they would normally get for clearing household goods they were

getting Rs. 200/- per kg. for these consignments. It does not

appear from the statement of Shri Azharuddin as recorded in the

order of Additional Commissioner that he said that he was clearing

the goods on his personal account and without knowledge of Shri

Azharuddin Riswan, the proprietor of the appellant firm. 19. Regulation 12(1)(i) requires the courier to obtain an

authorisation from each of the consignees or consignors of

imported goods for couriers of export goods to the effect that it

may act as an agent of such consignor or consignee. In this case

the so called consignors and consignees indicated in the bills of 15 C/50619/2021

entry had nothing to do with the consignments. In fact, these

names were provided by the appellant itself to Shri Krishna Murthy

through Shri Mukesh Rana so that the goods could be imported

mis-declaring both their nature and the names of the consignors

and consignees. By doing so, the appellant, Shri Mukesh Rana and

Shri Krishna Murthy attempted to bypass two essential

requirements for import - the IEC required for all commercial

imports and the NOC from the FSSAI. We do not find any error in

the impugned order holding that the appellant failed to fulfil its

obligation under Regulation 12(1)(i). Shri Mukesh Rana would get

Rs. 250/- per kg for the service from Shri Krishna Murthy of which

he would pay Rs. 200/- to Shri Riswan - the employee of the

appellant instead of the normal rate of Rs. 53/- per kg for

household goods. 20. Regulation 12(1)(iii) requires the authorised courier to advise

his consignor or consignee to comply with the provisions of the Act,

rules and regulations made thereunder and in case of non-

compliance thereof to bring the matter to the notice of the

Assistant Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Customs. In

this case the real consignee Shri Krishna Murthy (through Shri

Mukesh Rana) has imported the goods in the name of other

consignees by mis-declaring them as household goods. The

appellant has not only NOT advised the consignee to follow the

rules but has actually facilitated violation of the rules and also

circumventing the statutory requirement of obtaining IEC for

imports in commercial quantities and violating the mandatory

requirement of FSSAI for import of foods supplements by providing 16 C/50619/2021

details of consignors and consignees in whose names unbeknownst

to them, the goods could be imported. 21. Regulation 12(1)(iv) requires an authorised courier to verify

the antecedents, correctness of IEC number, identity of his client

and the functioning of his client in the declared address by using

reliable, independent, authentic documents, date or information.

In the normal course, this would be easy for any courier because it

has to finally deliver the goods by itself at the declared address of

the consignee after clearance from the customs. In this case,

instead, the appellant has facilitated imports and attempted to

obtain clearance of the goods in the name of many consignees

when the actual consignee was Shri Krishna Murthy through Shri

Mukesh Rana to whom the appellant was to deliver the goods as

per his convenience. Thus the appellant has, therefore, violated

Regulation 12(1)(iv). 22. Regulation 12(1) (v) requires the couriers to exercise due

diligence to ascertain the correctness and completeness of any

information which he submits to the proper officer with reference to

any work related to the clearance of imported goods or of export

goods. In this case, the appellant has actually connived with Shri

Mukesh Rana and filed documents to clear the goods mis-declaring

the names of the consignees and consignors and the nature of the

goods. Therefore, it has violated the Regulation 12(1)(v). 23. Regulation 12(1)(vii) requires the authorised courier to not

withhold any information relating to assessment and clearance of

imported goods from the assessing officer. In this case, the 17 C/50619/2021

appellant has intentionally provided wrong information and withheld

the information that commercial goods were being imported in the

guise of household goods and has connived with Shri Mukesh Rana

in filing the courier bills of entry in full knowledge that they were

not household goods. 24. Regulation 12(1)(x) requires to authorised courier to abide by

all the provisions of the Act and the rules, regulations and

notifications and orders issued thereunder. In this case the

appellant has actively violated the provisions of the act and rules by

knowingly filing the bills of entry in the name of wrong consignee

and also be mis-declaring the nature of the goods. 25. Considering all the facts of this case, we find that there is no

error in the order of the Commissioner holding that the appellant

has violated the Regulations. These provide that the Principal

Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs, as the case

may be, may revoke the registration of an authorised courier and

also pass an order for forfeiture of security on any of the following

grounds: 26. As we have upheld the findings of the Commissioner in the

impugned order that Regulation 12(1)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), (vii) and (x) were clearly violated by the appellant, we find that revocation

of the registration of the appellant under Regulation 13 is correct

and proper and calls for no interference. Learned counsel for the

appellant also submitted that there is no provision in the

Regulations for forfeiture of the security. This submission is not

correct as Regulation 13 clearly provides that the Commissioner

may pass an order for forfeiture of security also in addition to

revocation of the registration. The conditions of the bond executed

by the appellant under Regulation 11 are to comply with the

provisions for the act, rules and regulations made thereunder. As

we have found that impugned order was correct in holding that the

appellant violated several regulations there is no reason for us to

interfere with the forfeiture of security deposit. 27. Further, we find that for the various contraventions of these

regulations as discussed above the appellant was correctly held

liable to penalty under Regulation 14 and penalty of Rs. 50,000/-

was imposed by the Commissioner in the impugned order. 19 C/50619/2021 28. In view of the above, we find that the impugned order is

correct and proper and calls for no interference. 29. The impugned order is upheld and the appeal is rejected. (Pronounced in open Court on 28.10.2022)

 (P.V. Subba Rao)
 Member (Technical)

 (Dr. Rachna Gupta)
 Member (Judicial)
RM