The petitioner and the 5th respondent are members of Punjab

 Civil Medical Services. The petitioner is senior to the 5th respondent as a

 Medical Officer. The Departmental Promotional Committee met on 12th

 June 2007 and recommended the cases of promotion of both the petitioner

 and respondent No.5 as Senior Lecturer/re designated as Assistant Professor

 in the Department of Ophthalmology in the Government Medical College,

 Patiala. However, these promotions were made ad hoc and against vacant

 posts in direct quota and was fortuitous and made for the reason that the

 direct recruits were not available largely as a result of selections made by PARITOSH KUMAR 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :2: Punjab Public Service Commission, Patiala being mired in what came to be

 known and part of present folklore as the Ravi Sidhu 'cash-for-job' scam

 when a person by the name of Ravinder Pal Singh Sidhu was once the

 Chairman of Punjab Public Service Commission, Patiala and is now serving

 jail sentence. Ultimately, it was decided to fill up the posts of Senior

 Lecturers lying vacant for long in various departments of the Government

 Medical College, Patiala including in the Department of Ophthalmology by

 direct recruitment. As a result, three posts were advertised in the Department

 of Ophthalmology, the parent department of the petitioner and the 5th

 respondent. These three posts were distributed; one each for general

 category, Ex-serviceman and the reserved category of the backward class.

 Surprisingly, even though no posts were reserved for a candidate belonging

 to the scheduled caste category, in pursuance to the advertisement, the 5th

 respondent applied under the scheduled caste category on his own. Rather interestingly, two days before the selection process was

 to commence, a corrigendum was issued by the Director, Research and

 Medical Education, Punjab, Chandigarh reducing the number of posts

 advertised to two without giving any break up as to which of the three posts

 was abolished and from which category the other two posts are to be filled

 up. It is a matter of even greater surprise that the process of interviews was

 to be held on 4th January 2011. The DRME, Punjab then wrote to the

 Chairman of the Selection Committee informing him that in fact, for the

 interviews proposed to be held for induction in the Department of

 Ophthalmology, the posts to be filled would in sharp departure from what

 was professed in the advertisement stand reduced from three to two and

PARITOSH KUMAR instead of filing up the posts as per the prescribed advertisement, the posts 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :3: would be filled up from the general category and the other from amongst the

 candidates belonging to the scheduled caste category, a class that had not

 responded to the advertisement nor could possibly have. Neither was any

 corrigendum issued to this effect nor any public notice put in public domain

 for candidates to know of the change. 2. It is the case of the petitioner that the 2nd respondent walked

 extra lengths and beyond the call of duty to accommodate the 5th respondent

 who is a member of the scheduled caste category in order to secure him the

 benefit of direct appointment. It is thus pleaded in paragraph 2 of the

 petition. A clear nexus is established from a succession of foreboding events

 including the very fact that even though a post for Scheduled Castes was not

 advertised, the 5th respondent applied in the scheduled caste category in

 advance and in anticipation of manna. Later on, the SC category was

 designed for him in the manner narrated above. The rules of the game were

 changed twice before the 5th respondent was selected and appointed to the

 post. As a result of the ad hoc promotion in 2007 accorded to both the

 petitioner and the 5th respondent, they had continued to serve from time to

 time in the temporary promoted post meant for direct quota and till the

 present regular recruitment was made resulting in the appointment of the 5th

 respondent as Assistant Professor. It is not disputed that those promotions

 were made till a regular recruitment is through. The regular recruitment had

 been delayed because of nullification of the process of direct recruitment of

 doctors by the State Government whose appointments could not mature

 because of the Ravi Sidhu scam. 3. A few further facts are necessary to be narrated for purposes of

PARITOSH KUMAR understanding the challenge in this petition to the appointment of the 5th 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :4: respondent pursuant to Advertisement No.1 of 1st September 2010 seeking a

 writ of quo warranto and whether he is a usurper of public office. 4. The defence in the written statement filed by the State of Punjab

 is that after the advertisement was issued, the Department realized that

 inadvertently, a mistake was made in advertising some posts against the

 provisions of Punjab Medical Education Services Rules, 1979 and in this

 recalculation exercise, some of the posts were withdrawn by issuing a

 corrigendum on 29th December 2010 (P-7) including in the Ophthalmology

 Department. As per PMESR, 1979, the ratio and proportion between the

 promotion quota and direct quota was 75% and 25% respectively. The cadre

 of Senior Lecturers/Assistant Professors in the Department of

 Ophthalmology consists of 8 posts. Hence, two posts come under direct

 recruitment and 6 posts under the promotion quota. Thus, out of 8 posts, 2

 posts are to be filled through direct quota. As per instructions of the

 Government of Punjab, Department of Welfare (Reservation Cell)

 Memorandum dated 25th June 2004 (R-2), if the cadre is less than 5, then the

 2nd post goes to the scheduled caste candidate. Hence, a corrigendum was

 issued reserving one post for a scheduled caste candidate. It is admitted that

 the 5th respondent applied for the post as a member of the scheduled caste as

 there was no bar on scheduled caste candidates in applying for a post in the

 general category. The State does not dispute that even though no post for

 scheduled caste category was advertised, yet the 5th respondent applied from

 that category. Not only that, he applied in a category not advertised. The 5th

 respondent was called for interview and accepted the precious opportunity.

 After the corrigendum dated 29th December 2010 was issued, a back-to-back

PARITOSH KUMAR corrigendum was issued on "1.1.2011/2.1.2011" wherein the advertised 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :5: number of posts which were to be filled up were varied from those which

 were advertised in the initial advertisement. In this corrigendum, it was

 clarified that two posts will be filled up but without disclosing the

 distribution category-wise and leaving the matter as vague as could be. The

 process of selection was to commence on 2nd January 2011. More

 shockingly, one day before the date of interview, i.e., on 3rd January 2011,

 an advisory was issued by the 2nd respondent to the Chairman of the

 Selection Committee informing him that there has been a change in the

 number and nomenclature of the posts to be filled and the same be now

 filled up in the manner prescribed by him. With this, the posts were

 distributed one day short of the interview between the general and scheduled

 caste category. The interviews went ahead in the changed circumstances and

 recommendations were made by the Selection Committee inter alia to

 appoint the 5th respondent to the post of Senior Lecturer/Assistant Professor

 of Ophthalmology in the Government Medical College, Patiala. 5. In his challenge to the appointment of the 5th respondent, Mr.

 Patwalia, learned senior counsel, has taken this Court systematically through

 various stages of the recruitment process drawing attention to facts and

 figures as they occurred which show that there was something drastically

 wrong in the method adopted to single out the 5th respondent for preferential

 treatment and choose him in flagrant disregard to constitutional norms of

 appointment to public service secured under articles 14 and 16 of the

 Constitution. He first points out to advertisement No.1 and points to its

 break up of posts in Clause A(iii) meant for Senior Lecturers/Assistant

 Professors, where 36 posts were advertised in different disciplines including

PARITOSH KUMAR at Serial No.10 where one post was for the general category, one from BC 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :6: and one from Ex-serviceman in the field of Ophthalmology. He points out to

 running Clause G (i) which contains important instructions that are relied

 upon by the respondents in the written statement, to wit, that the number of

 posts can be increased or decreased or withdrawn by the Government

 without any notice. This condition is kept on hold for further discussion in

 this judgment. 6. Learned senior counsel next points out to Clause C which deals

 with age barriers and provides in sub-clause (b) that for the posts of Senior

 Lecturers/Assistant Professors and Lecturer, the age qualifying for

 appointment stands between 18 to 35 with relaxation up to 45 years for all

 State/Central Government employees. He submits that on the date of

 recommendation made by the Selection Committee, the age of the 5th

 respondent was 46 years 11 months and 5 days which makes the 5th

 respondent overage for direct recruitment. It is then pointed out from

 Annexure P-3, p. 47 that the 5th respondent in the application form has

 written "SC02" in the category code '03'. In the column of age relaxation, if

 applicable, it is written, "SC02". On the left margin, the words, "eligible"

 have been scribed and initialed by unknown person in long hand possibly in

 the scrutiny process. The application form is dated "17.9.2010", which was

 the closing date for receipt of applications. There is no category or category

 code existing in Advertisement No.1 as ascribed by the 5th respondent on the

 face of the application form which was obviously filled in anticipation of

 fair weather. Prior information leaked out cannot be ruled out of

 consideration with neither the 4th nor the 5th respondent available to explain.

 It is often said that coming events cast their shadows before.

PARITOSH KUMAR 7. Mr. Patwalia then draws the attention of the Court to the 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :7: corrigendum issued by DRME, Punjab (P-5) which is dated nil but refers to

 advertisement No.1 published in various newspapers on 3rd/4th September

 2010. In the corrigendum, it is reflected that for the time being, the

 'following' posts mentioned in the corrigendum will alone be filled. Two

 posts are mentioned in Ophthalmology without disclosing as to which of the

 three categories they relate to and which one of the three was deducted and

 which retained. It is most certain that no reservation for SC candidates was

 mentioned in the corrigendum. The written statement discloses that this

 corrigendum is dated 1st January 2011, i.e., three days prior to the

 interviews. Then is the turn of the letter dated 3rd January 2011 addressed by

 DRME, Punjab, Chandigarh to the Chairman of the Selection Committee,

 Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot being

 designated selecting body. This memo draws the attention of the Chairman

 of the Selection Committee to the corrigendum dated 1st January 2011 and

 2nd January 2011 published in the daily newspapers. 8. Learned senior counsel then points out to the crucial document

 (P-7) containing the details of posts to be withdrawn from the posts to be

 filled up by the recommendations of the Selection Committee and the

 required details of the posts to be filled in. The vernacular of Annexure P-7

 is placed alongside which reveals the cuttings and addition by hand of words

 in the printed document. This document shows that the requisition was sent

 for 3 posts in the Ophthalmology Department; two posts stand withdrawn;

 two posts are required for direct recruitment quota and the reservation

 presently is for one post of SC and one for general category. There is a

 cutting against column upon Item No.10 (Ophthalmology) in the 3rd column

PARITOSH KUMAR where the number '2' is overwritten. This document became available to the 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :8: Committee for the first time one day prior to the day interviews were to be

 conducted. 9. The serious grievance of the petitioner culminates in this

 document (P-7) which was not published in any newspaper and was,

 therefore, not in public domain nor made known to the candidates in

 advance or at the time of interview. No candidate knew of it except perhaps

 the 5th respondent for whom the post was being engineered at the instance of

 the 2nd respondent. 10. Mr. Patwalia draws the attention of this Court to the merit list of

 11 candidates who appeared for interview on 4th January 2011, which is a

 photocopy of the original result sheet, disclosing the breakup of marks

 secured by each of the candidates. The topper is Dr. Anuradha who secured

 76 marks in the general category and was selected and appointed. At serial

 No.1 is Dr. Kamaldeep in BC category who secured 31.5 marks. The name

 of the 5th respondent is found at serial No.10 (Dr. Rajinder Singh) with 32

 marks in the category, 'SC02'. The second highest marks have in the general

 category been achieved by Mr. Anad Agarwal with 72.5 marks. It is clear

 from this chart that the 5th respondent-Dr. Rajinder Singh even if considered

 in the general category would fail to secure appointment. The 5th respondent

 was offered appointment vide memo dated 17th February 2011 (P-9) as

 Senior Lecturer/Assistant Professor in the Department of Ophthalmology in

 Government Medical College, Patiala. He joined the post and has been

 working since then. 11. The petitioner is neither an applicant nor contestant for the post

 though he is a member of the cadre and presently posted as a Senior

PARITOSH KUMAR Lecturer/Assistant Professor in the Department of Ophthalmology, 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 :9: Government Medical College, Patiala. He has prayed for issuance of a writ

 in the nature of quo warranto restraining the 5th respondent from holding the

 post of Senior Lecturer/Assistant Professor in the Department of

 Ophthalmology in the respondent college by reason of his illegal

 appointment. The consequential prayer is that a writ of certiorari be issued

 quashing the appointment letter dated 17th February 2011 (P-9) by which the

 5th respondent was offered appointment. The 3rd prayer is that upon quashing

 of the appointment of the 5th respondent, the post of Senior

 Lecturer/Assistant Professor, Ophthalmology be declared vacant and a writ

 of mandamus be issued to the respondents to re-advertise the post after re-

 calculating the vacancies in the cadre of Senior Lecturer/Assistant Professor

 and apply the principles of reservation properly in terms of the recruitment

 rule in the ratio of 75:25 amongst promotees and direct recruits respectively

 and thereafter, make the selection/appointment on the said post on the basis

 of fresh advertisement where the rules of the game are clearly spelled out

 and made known before the last date for receipt of application forms. 12. Heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and perused

 the writ papers thoroughly with the assistance of counsel and then in

 chambers. 13. Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner makes a

 threefold submission in his address to the Court to urge firstly, that the 5th

 respondent is a usurper of public office and his appointment being

 apparently in violation of the rules and contrary to the terms of

 advertisement No.1 dated 1st September 2010 the same deserves to be

 quashed. His second submission is that the 4th respondent, Dr. Jai Krishan, in

PARITOSH KUMAR made party by name to answer the mala fides alleged apart from being the 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 10 : office holder of the post of 2nd respondent but has chosen not to file a

 separate reply in defence to the petition or to vindicate his stand. He acted

 improperly in changing the rules of the game after the game had begun and

 who at the eleventh hour issued two successive missives by way of

 corrigendum; one in the press and other not, by abusing his authority by

 introducing for the first time, one day before the selection committee met,

 altering and polluting the selection process by clandestinely declaring one

 post as ear marked for members of the scheduled caste category thereby

 paving the way for appointing the 5th respondent even though in

 advertisement No.1 of 2010, no post for the members of the scheduled caste

 has been advertised. This last minute change was kept a closely guarded

 secret from the public till after the result of the selection was known. In case,

 there was a calculation mistake in counting the vacancies in accordance with

 the rules and roster register and one post deserved to be granted to the

 member of the scheduled caste category, then the recruitment process should

 have been put on hold, if not recalled, and a suitable corrigendum issued and

 placed in public domain inviting other eligible candidates from the

 scheduled caste category who would have had the chance to apply in

 response to the fresh advertisement or corrigendum. Obviously, adopting

 this course would have delayed the recruitment and the game may have gone

 out of the hands of the 2nd and 4th respondent, the Head of the Department.

 On these premises and more importantly, the procedure adopted by the 2nd

 respondent was against the constitutional scheme of making public

 appointments in failing to satisfy the strict standards of both Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. PARITOSH KUMAR 14. Thirdly, Mr. Patwalia contends that the 5th respondent could not 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 11 : be appointed by way of direct recruitment as he was overage on the date of

 the last date of receiving the applications, i.e., 17th September 2010. His date

 of birth is 12th October 1963. The 5th respondent in the application form has

 in his own hand written in Column No.10, '46 years 11 months and 5 days'.

 On his own showing, the 5th respondent was overage and even if the post for

 scheduled caste category was advertised, even then he had crossed the

 maximum age limit of 45 years for in service candidates, not to speak of the

 reserved category age limits by which also he would fail to secure an

 appointment. On this score alone, the appointment of the 5th respondent

 deserves to be nullified. This age rule was not relaxable nor was relaxed by

 the Government of Punjab or in consultation with it. Such a course could not

 be adopted and evidently was for the reason of the tearing hurry in which

 rules were broken, suitably changed and altered at the fag end of the

 selection process just short of final interviews on 4th January 2011 which

 alone speak volumes on bias, factual malice, malice-in-law and mala fides. 15. His next submission is that the first corrigendum itself speaks

 volumes of the unlawful manner in which the 2nd respondent proceeded

 apparently while working to the personal advantage of the 5th respondent in

 promptly reducing the posts from 3 to 2 in Ophthalmology without

 bifurcating the two posts category-wise and reducing one post, which no

 sensible reader of the corrigendum in the newspaper would understand the

 meaning of, much less a contestant. 16. It is then the submission of Mr.Patwalia that the respondents

 can take no advantage of the clause of increase or decrease of vacancies in

 Clause G (i) of Advertisement No.1 of 2010. The stand of the State in

PARITOSH KUMAR paragraph 7 and 9 of the written statement is a facile attempt to cover up 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 12 : illegal actions by obfuscating the issues arising in the case. Besides, the

 instructions dated 25th June 2004 (R-2) relied upon by the respondents have

 no application to the facts of the case since they deal with cadres of less than

 5 but the cadre of Senior Lecturers/Assistant Professors in the Department of

 Ophthalmology consists of 8 posts. The instructions have been dragged in

 with a view to confuse the court. 17. Service law does not allow bifurcation of a cadre on the basis of

 reservation law. It remains a single unit with reservation dovetailed into it to

 achieve the prescribed percentages of reservation and to facilitate which,

 reserve roster points are earmarked. It is difficult to approve of and for a

 person to successfully contend that in this case the cadre should be divided

 in the ratio 6:2 amongst 8 posts [as stated in the written statement] and to

 operate the aforesaid policy instructions dated 25th June 2004 accordingly.

 Even assuming that such a course is necessitated where two posts in the

 cadre of 8 had to be filled in by members of the scheduled caste through

 direct quota, even then such a recruitment process on an altogether new

 calculation should have been initiated in advertisement No.1 of 2010 itself,

 and if the official respondents wanted to proceed on such a premise based on

 the law of reservation then they would have to be put back on the

 correctional path by Court interference, to restore the imbalance created by

 the mess wholly contrary to the principles of equal opportunity, in order to

 re-balance those rights suitably. 18. It is trite law that only those posts which are advertised are

 required to be filled in the ratio and proportion in which they are notified to

 be filled and in accordance with rules. This was sadly not done in the present

PARITOSH KUMAR case which when not done remains an incurable flaw in the recruitment 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 13 : process fatal enough to clothe this Court with the sacred armour of writs of

 certiorari and mandamus to nullify the illegal selection and appointment of

 the 5th respondent. 19. On the other hand, Mr. Rajiv Prashad, learned Additional

 Advocate General, Punjab relies on the defence of the State in the written

 statement and submits that no one can be granted the benefit of a mistake

 committed in counting the vacancies in accordance with rules. The 2nd

 respondent i.e. Dr. Jai Krishan (4th respondent) acted non-arbitrarily in

 correcting a mistake even if it was at the eleventh hour or without informing

 the public since a mistake committed by the Government is open to

 correction at any time and there is no limitation prescribed for exercise of

 such powers. If a service benefit legally available to a member of the

 reserved category is denied, that may violate the reservation policy as

 enabled by Articles 16(4) and 16(4A) of the Constitution which may not be

 giving a fair deal. He adds that the letter of appointment is by itself sufficient

 to show legal and valid authority for holding the post and therefore the writ

 must fail and the Court in quo warranto cannot lift the veil by a fishing

 inquiry into the nature of the appointment. He also contends that no person

 from the scheduled caste category, applicant or otherwise, is before the

 Court aggrieved and challenging the appointment of the 5th respondent and

 thus the petitioner has no locus standi to maintain this petition. 20. Counsel however fails to see that the principle of locus standi

 has no place in writs of quo warranto. The quo warranto jurisdiction is the

 heart, the soul, the conscience keeper and the guardian angel rescinding

 corrupt public appointments and the Court acts as a sentinel of the rule of

PARITOSH KUMAR law to maintain purity of administration. The writ is issued only to check 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 14 : under what legal authority does the occupier sit and if it is accordance with

 law the writ is to be refused. It can be ignited by the good, the bad and the

 ugly but without personal cause or oblique motive. It can well be invoked by

 a criminal who is not denuded of his rights to question how his jailor holds

 the post. The public must have substantial interest not only in the occupier of

 the post but in the post itself as one affecting the life of the community. The

 writ may be refused if the post is of inferior class where no public dealing is

 involved and to leave such an appointment, if challenged in the garb of quo

 warranto or public interest litigation, to the person aggrieved to seek remedy

 through regular modes. On the point of lifting the veil and that this Court

 when confronted by an order even if illegal can act no further but only an

 drop the matter leaving the challenge through some other mode, the

 argument does not impress me. The present jurisdiction in my view is not

 curtailed by an injunctive barrier stopping the Court from going behind the

 order or letter of appointment to examine its constitutionality and whether it

 passes the tests of Part III of the Constitution while dealing with public

 posts. This jurisdiction is in many ways much wider than what the Court is

 expected to do while issuing writs of certiorari, mandamus and prohibition.

 The very fact that any citizen can ignite the jurisdiction without having to

 show his standing except to disclose his identity, it then becomes more a

 matter between the constitutional court and the appointing authority when

 set in motion and responses called then the petitioner takes the back seat.

 Having filed such a writ he loses the right to withdraw just as in PIL

 jurisdiction. The Court becomes the qui vive of maintaining purity in

 appointments to public office and remains constitutionally bound to examine

PARITOSH KUMAR the legal validity of suspect orders of State Government and its functionaries 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 15 : brought before it and can even go into their conduct and correct a public

 wrong by issuing amendatory directions. This an obligation the court must

 fulfill when called upon to and not be seen abdicating its authority in a just

 cause. It is a different matter if a case justifies interference or not on full

 facts available after receiving the State response, but the duty in the first

 reflex is to protect public office by peeping into official record to know if all

 is well, the relief part being debatable in Court and a matter of opinion

 formed by applying legal principles to facts in case they demand. But it is

 well to remember the limitations placed by the Court itself in exercise of this

 jurisdiction. It is not to be used as a machine gun to slaughter appointments

 indiscriminately made in the lower echelons of public service, such as

 labourers, peons, daftries, clerks and sundry ministerial staff etc who may

 have no public face nor hold positions of trust, confidence and the like nor

 are involved in public dealing affecting rights of citizens. I would draw the

 line from where the members of the community starts getting involved

 interfacing everyday with public authorities in the multifarious activities the

 state performs then the case takes a different hue and many factors come into

 play. Interference for the sake of interference or upsetting an appointment on

 trifling argument is not the order of the day. But what may be called for is

 only a proper secondary review exercise by the Court to satisfy itself that

 everything is in order or is not. If it is not, then interference may be justified.

 I would most certainly put my penny in to count the teaching post of Senior

 Lecturer/Assistant Professor in Government Medical College, Patiala in the

 check list of quo warranto. And be interested enough to know who holds the

 post and how he came by it. PARITOSH KUMAR 21. To return to the flow of Mr. Prashad's submissions and whether 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 16 : they should be accepted as a valid defence of the appointment, I should like

 to think, that assuming for a moment that there was a mistake in calculation

 of vacancies before the advertisement was published and the correction was

 done consciously and for good reason, even then the law requires that the

 recruitment process as far as the scheduled caste vacancy is concerned,

 should have been re-advertised or instead a corrigendum issued in the

 newspapers inviting applications from all those scheduled caste candidates

 who may have been eligible on the last date of submitting the application

 forms, but such a course was not adopted. Those not presently in sight were

 legally wronged. Neither was the roster register maintained by the

 department and duly checked by the Department of Welfare of SCs and BCs,

 Punjab produced to support the mistake in counting vacancies which may

 have been the best evidence, if produced, not that it would have made any

 material difference on the argument resting on the cornerstone of article 16 and violation thereof which is the touchstone of the case of the petitioner

 complaining of breach of principles of equality of opportunity apart from

 asserting that decision-making process leading to the appointment of the 5th

 respondent was blemished. I shudder to think of the serious consequences

 that may follow the quashing of the appointment of the 5th respondent where

 unfortunately many doctors eligible in in the year 2010 may have become

 overage and lost their opportunity forever in the re-conduct process which

 will follow in the event of success of this petition. Look at the harm that is

 wreaked by motivational factors and the havoc played by business deals

 behind closed doors and personal agendas destroying promotions and

 appointments and what these 'virtues' can do to the lives of innocent people

PARITOSH KUMAR and the suffering public, victims of the caprice of the ruler of the day. 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 17 : Constitutional tort is writ large in this case with no saving graces to act in

 aid of the usurper or his friend. The tortfeasor is most certainly the decision-

 maker and the participants in a stillborn appointment given life to play with

 the lives of the sick and the ailing. 22. The 5th respondent has not entered appearance before the Court

 probably because he couldn't muster strength enough to stand up in Court

 and support his appointment. As per office report, service on the respondents

 was complete on 31st January 2012. 23. The State has contested the case by filing a written statement on

 behalf of respondents No.1 and 2. The 4th respondent is the 2nd respondent as

 well but has not filed a personal reply to defend his actions and has

 depended on the State to justify the defence. Neither has the 5th respondent

 filed a separate reply to defend himself nor is represented through counsel to

 contest the case. Today as the case was called, no one appears for the 5th

 respondent. Since no one appeared for the 5th respondent despite many

 adjournments, he is proceeded ex parte. In these circumstances, the matter

 was heard for final disposal ex parte respondent No.5. 24. To sum up, I am unable to accept the grass root infirmity in the

 application form itself submitted on 17th September 2010 by a person

 applying under the scheduled caste category vacancy/post when none was

 advertised, yet strangely he was declared eligible and called for the

 interview which appears to have been only a mock drill and a sham with

 only one SC candidate in the fray. 25. The normal rule is that only the posts advertised category-wise

 can be filled up in the proportion determined without any increase or

PARITOSH KUMAR decrease as was held for the first time by the Supreme Court in its landmark 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 18 : ruling in Hoshiar Singh v. State of Haryana and others , 1993 Suppl. 4 SCC

 377 but the inflexible rule laid down therein has been marginally relaxed by

 the Supreme Court in Prem Singh v. Haryana State Electricity Board , 1996

 (4) SCC 319 and then again in Varinder Singh Hooda v. State of Haryana

 and others 1999 (4) SCC 319 here relying on the 1957 circular which

 permitted appointments against future vacancies arising within six months of

 the date of recommendations of the Public Service Commission and then

 again softening to some extent the rigours of the rule declared in Hoshiar

 Singh and other cases. In Prem Singh an exception was carved out from the

 general rule in Hoshiar Singh where the Supreme Court observed as

 follows:- 26. In adopting such a flexible approach the Court was guided by

 overriding public interest. The exception does not save this case where there

 was no such interest involved. Nor was a policy decision taken by

 Government in its policy making room in accordance with its rules of

 business to make the impugned changes. DRME could not have acted single

 handedly merely on his ipse dixit to turn the tide of the Advertisement No 1

 of 2010 mixing the coast, the shore and the beach by a jugglery of impure PARITOSH KUMAR 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 19 : facts. 27. In neither of aforesaid three cases before the Supreme Court, a

 factual situation was involved as found in the present case where a post in

 the new category has been created for the first time, by an unpublished

 corrigendum and the recruitment made on the basis of the changed effected

 one day before the interview. It is equally well settled that a post in the new

 category cannot be sought to be filled without an advertisement or public

 notice. Such a selection as made in this case was not open to the eligible

 public to apply in search of direct recruitment and thus, would be a back

 door entry. I have no hesitation in holding that the 5th respondent was

 ineligible on account of age-bar and when selected, is an illegal into service

 and he can derive no undue benefit from an illegal appointment and to

 continue holding it. The post of Senior Lecturer/Assistant Professor in a

 premier Government Hospital is an important post in which the public at

 large has a vital interest and would attract jurisdiction in quo warranto

 proceedings for this Court to nullify such an appointment so as not to leave

 any impurity in public service and on public record. I would agree with each

 of the arguments raised by Mr. Patwalia that this is a fit case in which a writ

 of quo warranto should be issued to set aside the appointment of the 5th

 respondent obtained by illegal means. 28. To sum up, I hold that : ii) Further, he could not be appointed against a reserved category

 post (SC) since none was advertized in the advertisement No.1 of

 2010 nor in the corrigendum and the last minute change brought

 about by the 4th respondent directing the selection committee one

 day short of interview to recommend the name of a Scheduled

 caste candidate did not amount to advertizing the post since it was

 not put in public domain. Therefore, the appointment is

 unconstitutional. 29. For the foregoing reasons, the petition is allowed. A writ of quo

 warranto is issued to the State Government. The selection of the 5th

 respondent is nullified forthwith. The 5th respondent is ordered to be reverted

 to his previous post. The direct recruit post illegally occupied by him is

 declared vacant and will not be counted in the roster register as filled up and

 will be deemed to remain vacant from one day prior to the joining of the 5th

 respondent and will not be treated as consumed for the reason that an illegal

 and unconstitutional appointment made in breach of article 16 and in gross

 abuse of power is ab initio void as distinguished from a voidable

 appointment where on judicial review it is discovered after forensic debate

 as an appointment not being absolutely in conformity with service rules or

 the like [the corollaries when appointments are not made in accordance with

 rules as explained in State of West Bengal v. Aghore Nath Dey , (1993) 3

 SCC 371] but was a result of a bona fide error of judgment committed by the

 appointing authority in ignorance or in misunderstanding of the law and on PARITOSH KUMAR 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 21 : removal of such an incumbent of a post brought under judicial review will

 be taken as 'consumed' with all legal consequences flowing there from. A

 distinction will also have to be kept in mind between "illegal" and

 "irregular" appointments as explained in Secretary, State of Karnataka v.

 Umadevi , (2006) SCC 1 while examining cases whether a post stands

 consumed or not, in the event of discharge from service following an

 "unconstitutional", "illegal" or "irregular" appointment. Valuable rights of

 others may rest on such declarations. It is also moot as to what would be the

 effect on "consumption" of post, and whether it should be deemed to be

 occupied or deemed vacant ab initio where such a declaration comes from

 the State department in the first instance upon termination of service or by

 Court for the first time on judicial review of administrative action setting

 aside the appointment. Therefore, it appears to follow a priori that a mere

 physical occupation of a vacancy/post when it is found illegally occupied

 and the appointment declared constitutionally bad by Court then it will not

 count mechanically towards "consumption" of post only to be thrown open

 for the next recruitment process and in such a case it can be argued, and I

 think successfully, that if the wait list period has not expired wherever rules

 fix its life span then person in waiting can be offered appointment if the

 name stands recommended or if the aggrieved party is already in Court

 claiming that the post is occupied by a usurper and he is next in waiting for

 direct recruitment in the merit list. As that I mean to say for the present in

 the context of this case is that such a usurper would take no credit towards

 experience or be heard to urge that he is entitled to retain salary for the

 period of usurpation on the principle of quantum meruit. He takes home

PARITOSH KUMAR nothing except a liability to return money, when I see in this case that the 5th 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 22 : respondent applied in SC category in advance and in anticipation when the

 right to apply was not available. Since he has not filed reply or contested the

 case I would draw an adverse inference that he was a beneficiary of fraud

 practiced on public employment. Therefore, he cannot be heard to urge that

 the appointment was not caused by any fault of his nor did he practice

 deceit, misrepresentation or fraud and he should be let off altogether or

 somewhat lightly. How can the Court ignore this- I would have liked to ask

 him this question had he appeared and told his side of the story.

 Notwithstanding, he has reaped a rich harvest from February 2011 and now

 for a little short of four years. This petition was filed in the same year. It is

 now pay back time. 30. Resultantly, Government is free to make suitable temporary

 arrangement to man the post by charge of current duty by an in-house person

 who is otherwise eligible for the post and as thought fit in the exigencies of

 administration. Had the petitioner not secured direct recruitment by an

 illegal and unconstitutional process, he may have continued as an ad hoc

 Senior Lecturer/Assistant Professor against direct quota post with right of

 confirmation on due date on his seniority within his promotion quota or have

 faced reversion in the face of a direct recruit available, had one been

 appointed in accordance with law. The 5th respondent has deprived third

 parties under the original advertisement, as had applied, of their valuable

 rights who may not have come forward for unknown reasons. This is where

 the aggrieved person seeking certiorari is lost in the morass and quo

 warranto takes over to rule the day. 31. It is further ordered that in case, the 5th respondent has drawn

PARITOSH KUMAR salary and service benefits over and above those of his previous post, which 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 23 : he must have, apart from enjoying the elevated status, then the monetary

 difference is directed to be regurgitated jointly and severally by the 4th and

 5th respondents from their salaries and pension (in case retired) calculated as

 payable in easy installments to reimburse the Government till the difference

 is satisfied in the Government Treasury. 32. However, such orders of recovery shall be passed only after

 holding an enquiry against the erring officer/officers who engineered and

 participated in making an unconstitutional appointment contrary to law and

 in violation of the constitutional scheme, by calling for their explanations

 including from those who actively or passively participated in the selection

 process at the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot so

 innocently, in such a pliable manner and without any murmur, not to say

 without reflection and due application of mind. Those involved in the

 portals of the university in the hurried interview process enabled matters to

 come to such a pass by failing to refer the vital issue to the State

 Government for advice for which it could have simply postponed the

 interviews for a week or two and awaited response. If the Public Service

 Commission had been discredited in its working that did not mean that they

 earn discredit for the university. Once bitten twice shy. Heavens would not

 have fallen had the interviews of only 11 contestants in the ophthalmology

 department been postponed for a week or two to await advice of State

 Government. In fact DRME should have done that, had his vision not been

 coloured by predication and predisposition of mind. 33. So far as the University is concerned it was after all acting as

 a delegate of the State Government as an expert body to make the selection

PARITOSH KUMAR and was responsible to act fairly under the Advertisement I of 2010 and its 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CWP No.17954 of 2011 : 24 : terms and conditions unless changed by State Government in writing and

 addressed to it directly or acting through the department concerned routed

 through the proper channel in the chain of command together with the view

 the Welfare Department, Punjab on the subject. 34. The DRME, Punjab is not the State Government nor can

 pretend to be. He does not foot the salary bill of the 5th respondent which has

 gone into the pocket of a usurper of public office proactively helped by the

 former as the Head of the Department holding public office in public trust

 acting as a trustee of public property and governed by conduct exemplified

 by the doctrine of uberrimae fides but to the contrary he violated every shred

 of reason tearing articles 14 and 16 to bits. "All power is a trust; that we are

 accountable for its exercise; that from the people and for the people all

 springs, and all must exist." said Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield

 who twice served as Prime Minister of England. (RAJIV NARAIN RAINA)
 JUDGE
 December 1, 2014
 Paritosh Kumar PARITOSH KUMAR 2014.12.12 11:39 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document