HCL Tech Nov 18, 2023, 7:36 AM subject:	Recruitment Drive HCL Tech Online Interview & Joining Program mailed-by:	hclrecruitment.com signed-by:	hclrecruitment.com security:	 Standard encryption (TLS) Learn more :	Important according to Google magic. -- Classification: Confidential Season Greetings!! SUB: Online HCL Internship 2023 Program | HCL Tech First Careers Program With reference to your CV short-listed at the online interview & joined the program at HCL Tech. The Company required urgent staff for Functional Area IT Software (Software Products and services) Data Analysts | Software Developers | Manual Testing for Desktop & Other positions... The required document details are available in the Attachment File (Welcome Letter). If you have any queries contact to H.R Department Thanks & Regards Online Interview Recruitment Relation Team HCL Tech Kesavaraj T Contact No.[protected] Address # Vertex Tech Park, # 564 Pattandur Agrahara Road, Off Whitefield Road Next to ITPL, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560066 (India) ::DISCLAIMER:: The contents of this e-mail and any attachment(s) are confidential and intended for the named recipient(s) only. E-mail transmission is not guaranteed to be secure or error-free as information could be intercepted, corrupted, lost, destroyed, arrive late or incomplete, or may contain viruses in transmission. The e mail and its contents (with or without referred errors) shall therefore not attach any liability on the originator or HCL or its affiliates. Views or opinions, if any, presented in this email are solely those of the author and may not necessarily reflect the views or opinions of HCL or its affiliates. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, modification, distribution and / or publication of this message without the prior written consent of authorized representative of HCL is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email in error please delete it and notify the sender immediately. Before opening any email and/or attachments, please check them for viruses and other defects. Welcome Letter: HCL Tech Online Fresher’s Recruitment Drive[protected] (HCL Tech Employment Code / HCLFC000251) HCL Tech Online Interview Process | HCL First Careers - Training & Joining Program HCL Recruitment 2023 for up to 2024 Batch Fresher’s | Careers Page Link: Hindustan Computers Limited is offering a great career opportunity for aspirants across the country. HCL Recruitment 2023 is a very good chance for young graduates such as fresher’s to enter the IT Sector. Fresher’s who accept the work as a challenge can apply for the HCL Careers 2023 by going through the details. Basically, the officials of the company will recruit candidates for multiple vacant positions directly. All interested candidates can apply for the HCL Careers 2023 by checking this article perfectly. This is an exclusive page that gives the latest recruitment notification of HCL Technologies. HCL Fresher’s Recruitment Drive: (A) Online Interview (B) HCL First Careers Internship Program With reference to your CV has been short-listed in our annual direct campus online joining program in HCL Technologies. The Company required urgent staff for Functional Area IT Software (Software Products & Services) Data Analyst | Software Developers | Manual Testing for Desktop | Account Department | H.R. Department. Your online interview program will be held, 18th & 19th of Nov 2023 at 10.30 A.M. to 5.30 P.M. (A) Online Interview 1. Written Test / Aptitude Test / Group Discussion (May or May not) 2. Technical Interview Round 3. HR Interview Round (B) HCL Internship (2023 – 2024) – Stipend, Eligibility & Selection Process: Are you one of the candidates who are searching for the HCL Internship Program? If yes, then you are at the right place to find the complete details of the Internship at HCL. From this article, you can check the HCL Summer/ Winter Internship, Stipend, Eligibility Criteria, Selection Process, and the procedure to apply for the Internship at HCL information. HCL is inviting applications from candidates across the country. HCL Technologies First Careers Program: HCL First Careers is an assured job training program that is aimed at new college graduates who are looking for the right first step for their global career in technology and IT Services. The program trains you with the practical skills needed to be successful in your first job. This includes both technical and personality development skills. You will learn from experienced professionals how to develop yourself personally and professionally to be successful in your job. Training will go beyond theory and focus on practical application for all-round success. HCL First Careers Program is offered by HCL Training & Staffing Services (HCL TSS) which is a division subsidiary company of HCL Technologies Limited. In the past few years, over 22000 candidates across the country have undertaken HCL's best job oriented courses and have joined HCL post successful completion of the program. HCL Training & Staffing Services offers the best- in-class, skill-based training programs for fresher job roles at HCL. Candidates are selected through a strict selection process with those selected, undergoing rigorous training. First Six months your Online Training period, Company provide your C.T.C Salary up to Rs. 15k / Month. Students successfully complete the training program by online are employed on HCL Technologies payroll without any Interview. Completion of the training program company offered the best salary (C.T.C) to all selected candidates for different posts – Starting Salary of INR – 4, 56, 248 to 9, 88, 221 per year. Payment Process: You have to deposit as an initial per program amount in favor of Company Name (HCL Technologies Limited) for INR 5000 (Five Thousand Rupees) in HCL Technologies Limited. Just to prove that you will be attending the both of the Programs. Refund Condition: You are selected or not in both of conditions amount is refundable. HCL Technologies Account Details: Cash | Check & D.D is not Accepted. Beneficiary Name HCL Technologies Limited Account Number [protected] IFSC Code UCBA0000024 Bank Name UCO Bank (Bangalore City Branch) Payment Mode Net-Banking / IMPS Required Documents by E-mail for your register email id. 1. Candidate Name / Father Name / DOB / Gender / Address / Preferred Joining Location / Contact Number 2. Scan-copies of Qualification Document only update semester 3. Scan-copies of Id & Address Proof 4. Scan-copies of Payment Receipt 5. One passport size photograph Note : After submit the document by mail, Company provides your Confirmation letter & Interview Link by Email. Today is a last date 18th of Nov 2023. Recruitment Relation Team Online Interview Program Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)