The Private Complaint is filed by the Complainant under Section 200 of Cr.P.C against the accused alleging that she has

committed the offence punishable under Section 138 of

Negotiable Instruments Act. 2. The brief facts of the complaint are as follows: 3. Based on the complaint, the sworn statement affidavit,

and documents etc., the court took cognizance of an offence

punishable Under Section 138 of N.I. Act by following the

guidelines of Apex Court issued in Indian Bank Association

case and ordered to be registered a criminal case against the 4 C.C.No..56870/2022

accused for the offence punishable Under Section 138 of N.I.

Act. 4. After issuance of summons, accused appeared before

the court and enlarged herself on bail. Plea was recorded, read

over and explained to the accused, who pleads not guilty and

claims to be tried. Hence, the case is posted for complainant's

evidence. 5. The Complainant got examined himself as PW-1 and

he got marked 8 documents as Ex.P.1 to 8 and closed his side. 6. The statement as required under Section 313 of Cr.P.C.

was recorded. The accused denied all the incriminating

evidence appeared against her. The Accused got examined

herself as DW1 and got marked documents Ex.D1 to Ex.D3. 7. Heard both sides and perused the materials on record.

In addition to the oral arguments, both the learned counsels

appearing for parties have filed their respective written

arguments. The learned counsel for Accused has placed the following

citations; 1. 2013 (3) SCC 86 5 C.C.No..56870/2022 2. 2015 (1) SCC 99 3. Judgment in SLP(Cri) No.9505/2011 in the case of John
 K Abraham V/s. Simon C. Abraham & Another 8. Upon hearing the arguments and on perusal of the

materials placed on record, the following points arise for my

consideration. 9. My findings on the above points is: 10. Existence of legally recoverable debt is a sine qua non

for prosecuting the case under Section 138 of Negotiable

Instruments Act. For convenient purpose the essential 6 C.C.No..56870/2022

ingredients to constitute offence under section 138 of N.I.Act is

summarized as below: 11. It is the core contention of the complainant that,

he is a business entrepreneur dealing in sale of Telecom Mobile

& Accessories commanding good reputation in the market since

15 years. The Accused is known to him since about more than

several years as the Accused is a customer who have availed his

services and purchased items such as phone etc., and

subsequently when the Accused became well known to him.

The Accused approached him for an urgent personal money

loan by cash for disposing off a property for an amount of

Rs.4.75 lakhs and for this bonafide reason, the Complainant

has paid Rs.4.75 lakhs to the Accused. 12. It is further submitted by the Complainant that after

stipulated period, the Accused has not paid the outstanding

payment to him. However, on his demands towards the 7 C.C.No..56870/2022

recovery of a legally enforceable debt owed to him, the Accused

has issued a Cheque bearing No.659017 dtd.12.4.2022 for

Rs.4,75,000/- drawn on IndusInd Bank, M.G.Road branch,

Bengaluru with an assurance that, the same would be

honoured on its presentation, which was returned unpaid for

the reason "funds insufficient" with an endorsement

dtd.15.2.2022. Thereafter, the Complainant got issued demand

notice through RPAD on 13.7.2022, through his counsel.

Inspite of issuance of legal notice the accused has not paid the

Cheque amount. Accordingly, the Complainant has filed

present complaint against the Accused for the offence

punishable u/Sc.138 of N.I Act. Hence, this complaint. 13. In order to bring home the guilt of the accused,

Complainant got examined himself as PW1 and reiterated the

contents of complaint in his examination-in-chief. He has also

placed the copy of original Cheque bearing No.659017

dtd.12.4.2022 at Ex.P1, bank endorsement at Ex.P2,office copy

of legal notice issued by the Complainant to the Accused on

13.7.2022 at Ex.P3, postal receipt at Ex.P4, postal track at

Ex.P5, Ex.P6 is the returned postal cover, Ex.P7 is the GST 8 C.C.No..56870/2022

Registration Certificate and Ex.P8 is the Certificate u/ Sec.65

(B) of Indian Evidence Act. 14. The documents produced by the complainant of

course established that complainant meets out the procedural

requirements of Section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act, but

it is to be considered whether all these documents establish the

offence committed by the accused. 15. The Negotiable Instruments Act raises two

presumptions. One contained in Section 118 and the other in Sec. 139 thereof. For the sake of convenience Sec 118(1) of the N.I. Act is extracted here below: Until the contrary is proved, the following
 presumptions shall be made ;-- 1. To (g) . . . . . . . . . . . . Provided that where the instrument has been
 obtained from its lawful owner, or from an person in 9 C.C.No..56870/2022

 lawful custody thereof, by means of an offence of fraud,
 or has been obtained from the maker or acceptor
 thereof by means of an offence of fraud, or for unlawful
 consideration, the burden of proving that the holder is
 a holder in due course lies upon him". 16. Further Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act

reads as under: Scope and ambit and function of the presumption
 U/s 118(a) and Sec 139 of NI Act came to be considered
 by the Hon'ble Apex Court of Indian in Krishna
 Janardhan Bhat Vs Dattatraya G.Hegde (2008
 AIAR (Criminal 151) The Supreme Court has laid
 down the law in the following phraseology. 17. Further, said decision was followed by Hon'ble High

Court of Karnataka in Kempanarasimhaiah Vs P.Rangaraju

& Others (2008 (5) KCCR 3371). Relevant paragraph of the

said judgment reads as under: - C.C.No..56870/2022

 He may discharge his burden on the basis of the
 materials already brought on records (para 23) (iv) Standard of proof on the part of an accused and that of
 the prosecution in a criminal case is different. Further
 more where as prosecution must prove the guilt of an
 accused beyond all reasonable doubt, the standard of
 proof so as to prove a defence on the part of an
 accused is " preponderance of probabilities'" ( para 23
 & 25) (v) Inference of preponderance of probabilities can be
 drawn not only from the materials brought on records
 by the parties but also by reference to the
 circumstances upon which he relies ( para 25) (vi) Other important principles of legal jurisprudence,
 namely presumption of innocence as human rights
 and the doctrine of reverse burden introduced by Section 139 should be deliberately balanced (para 34) 18. Thus from the observations extracted above, it is

clear that presumption Under Section 139 of the N.I. Act is only

to the extent that the cheque was drawn for discharge in full or

in part of any debt or other liability and the said presumption

do not relate to the existence of legally enforceable debt or

liability. Therefore, before drawing the presumption under Section 139 of the N.I.Act, it is the duty of the Court to see

whether or not the complainant has discharged his initial

burden as to existence of legally enforceable debt. No doubt, as

per Section 118(a) of the Act, there is a rebuttable presumption

that every negotiable instrument, is accepted, endorsed, 12 C.C.No..56870/2022

negotiated or transferred was accepted, endorsed, negotiated or

transferred for consideration." 19. Factual matrix of the case is required to be tested on

the anvil of principles emerging from the above-referred

decisions. 20. The defence taken by the Accused is that, she does

not know the Complainant and she never borrowed any amount

from the Complainant. She purchased electronic goods from

Bajaj Finance on EMI basis and for that, he issued her copies

of Aadhaar Card and PAN Card and one signed cheque to the

finance in the year 2018. The Complainant has misused the

cheque by filing of this complaint. 21. To substantiate the claim of Complainant, he

examined himself as PW1. In the evidence he deposed that he

is a businessman dealing in sale of Telecom Mobile &

Accessories and good reputation in the market and successfully

running the business since from 15 years. It is further deposed

that the Accused is known to him since more than 7 years as

the Accused is a customer who have availed services and

purchased the items from the Complainant. It is further 13 C.C.No..56870/2022

deposed that, for this acquaintance, the Accused requested the

Complainant loan of Rs.4,75,000/- for her urgent personal loan

by cash for disposing off a property. Considering the request of

the Accused, the Complainant in good faith has paid cash of

Rs.4,75,000/- to her. It is further deposed that, after payment

of amount, when the Complainant demanding repayment of the

said amount, the Accused has issued Ex.P1 cheque for

Rs.4,75,000/- and on the instruction of the Accused, he

presented the cheque for encashment, which was dishonoured

with reason "funds insufficient" as per Ex.P2. It is further

deposed that, thereafter, he issued legal notice to the Accused

as per Ex.P3, which was returned as per Ex.P6 and as per

Ex.P5 postal track, it was served. It is further deposed that,

after knowledge of the notice, neither the Accused pay the

cheque amount nor reply the notice. 22. Considering the oral and documentary evidence prima

facie presumed that, Ex.P1 cheque was issued by the Accused

towards discharge of legally enforceable debt. To rebut the

presumption, the learned counsel for Accused cross-examined

the PW1 at full length. In the cross-examination PW1 stated

that, he running Payal Telecom and he is a proprietor of that 14 C.C.No..56870/2022

concern and his proprietorship having bank account and also

he having personal bank account. It is further stated that, in

the year 2000 Accused met him for first time and about 2-3

years back, she purchased one television and said television

was purchased by availing loan from Bajaj Finance. It is further

deposed that, he is one of agent of Bajaj Finance. He further

stated that he sanctioned loan to the customer on the basis of

I.D. of the Bajaj Finance. He further stated that, he secured

residential address of the Accused and also he know family

details of the Accused. He further stated that, Accused residing

at Oil Mill. He further stated that the Accused and her husband

came and receive the amount from him. He further stated that,

Accused told him that, there is a property dispute, therefore

she need of money and after selling of the property she

returned back the money. He further stated that, he paid

Rs.4.75 lakhs by cash. He further stated that, since he is a

business man he having cash amount with him. He further

stated that, he is an income tax assessee. He further stated

that, in Ex.P1 entire details were mentioned by the Accused.

He further stated that, cheque issued by the Accused in his

shop. He denied that, Accused availed loan from the Bajaj 15 C.C.No..56870/2022

Finance, as he is agent of Bajaj Finance, the Accused issued a

cheque for security purpose, which was misused by him by

filing of this complaint. He denied that, at the time of

sanctioning the loan from Bajaj Finance, he obtained PAN Card

and Aadhaar Card and also cheque from the Accused. He

further stated that, Rs.4,75,000/- paid by him to the Accused

was cash amount which came from selling the items. 23. To rebut the presumption, the Accused examined

herself as DW1. She deposed that, she did not know the

Complainant. She further deposed that he was issued signed

cheque, copy of Aadhaar Card and PAN Card to the Bajaj

Finance while purchasing the electronic items in the year 2018.

She further deposed that she was purchased television. She

further deposed that after payment of television price, in the

year 2021 she purchased Fridge on EMI and till today she

paying the EMIs. She further deposed that she has not availed

any loan from the Complainant and the Complainant has

misused the cheque. In support of her evidence, she produced

loan account details of Bajaj Finance Ltd. at Ex.D1 and 2. 16 C.C.No..56870/2022 24. In the cross-examination she stated that in the year

2018 she went to the Payal Electronic for purchasing. She

denied admits that, she invited the Complainant to her sister's

marriage. She further stated that, in Ex.D1 and Ex.D2 the

cheque number was not mentioned. She further stated that,

she has not produced any document to show that, Ex.P1

cheque was issued in favour of Bajaj Finance. 25. Considering the oral and documentary evidence

placed by both parties, it is clear that Ex.P1 cheque was issued

by the Accused and also she admits signature on the cheque.

Further it is clear that, Accused was purchased electronic items

from the Complainant's shop. Therefore, the say of Accused

that, she did not know the Complainant is not accepted.

Further, the Complainant stated that, he is an agent of Bajaj

Finance and he help the customer to avail loan from Bajaj

Finance for purchase of electronic items from his shop. It is

pertaining to note that, the Accused herself stated that, she

purchased television and fridge by availing the loan facility from

Bajaj Finance. C.C.No..56870/2022 26. The case of the Complainant is that, the Accused was

availed loan from him for her financial difficulties and he was

paid Rs.4,75,000/- to her. On the other hand, the defence of

the Accused is that, she was issued cheque in favour of Bajaj

Finance. In this regard, the Accused has not placed any

document to show that, she was issued cheque to Bajaj

Finance. She further stated that, Complainant was misused her

cheque. But, she cannot taken defence that, she has issued

cheque to the Complainant. During the course of arguments,

the learned counsel for Accused submits that, being an agent

the Complainant being the agent of Bajaj Finance has misused

the cheque for illegal gains. Hence, the Accused will get a shield

of benefit of doubt about the misuse of cheque. It is pertaining

to note that admittedly, the Complainant is agent of Bajaj

Finance. If, he misused the cheque of the Accused, which

issued in favour of Bajaj Finance then why the Accused has not

taken any legal action against the Complainant. Further as per

the contention of Accused, she was issued cheque in favour of

Bajaj Finance. Then how the Complainant was misused by

strike out the payee's name i.e., Bajaj Finance and filled his 18 C.C.No..56870/2022

name. Therefore, the contention taken by the Accused is not

accepted. 27. Further contention taken by the Accused is that, the

Complainant has not proved his financial capacity and source

of income to lend Rs.4.75 lakhs to the Accused. In this regard,

the learned counsel for Accused relied on decision of Apex

Court in the case of K.Subramani V/s. Damodar Naidu in

2015 (1) SCC 99 wherein the Hon'ble Apex court held that; 28. It is pertaining to note that in the instant case the

Complainant is proprietor of Payal Telecom wherein he selling

electric and electronic items and in his day to day business he

earned huge amount. Therefore, the contention taken by the

Accused for financial capacity is not accepted. 29. The Accused has admitted he signature ion the

cheque which itself presumed that, cheque was issued by her

in favour of Complainant. Therefore, it presumed that Ex.P1 19 C.C.No..56870/2022

cheque was issued by the Accused in favour of Complainant to

discharge her debt and liability. 30. As discussed above, it has to be presumed that the

cheque in question was issued by the accused to discharge the

legally recoverable debt or liability. The accused can place

rebuttal evidence so as to show that the cheque was not issued

for consideration. As appreciated supra, accused has failed to

put acceptable and satisfactory evidence to probabilise the

defence. Therefore, there is no question of saying that the

cheque was not issued for liability. Therefore, complainant has

discharged his initial onus laid on him. When he has

discharged his initial onus, it raises presumption U/s 118(a)

and 139 of Negotiable Instruments Act . Accused has failed to

rebut the presumption either in cross-examining PW-1 or in her

evidence. 31. So, far as sentence and compensation is concern, an

offence punishable under Section 138 of N.I. Act, is a civil

wrong and compensatory in nature, punitive is secondary,

considering, the above settled principle of law with facts and

circumstances of the case, which clearly reveals that, towards

discharge of loan amount, the cheque in question of issued by 20 C.C.No..56870/2022

the accused to the complainant. Therefore, considering the

nature of transaction, duration of pendency, litigation

expenses, I am opinion that, if sentence of fine of

Rs.5,54,800/- (Rupees Five Lakhs Fifty-four Thousand and

Eight Hundred only) is imposed that would meet the ends of

justice, accordingly, the accused is hereby sentenced to pay a

fine of Rs.5,54,800/- (Rupees Five Lakhs Fifty-four

Thousand and Eight Hundred only) out of that, the

complainant is entitled for a sum of Rs.5,49,800/- (Rupees

Five Lakhs Forty-nine Thousand and Eight Hundred only)

as a compensation as per Sec.357(1) of Cr.P.C., remaining

amount of Rs.5,000/-, is to be appropriated to the State, in

case of default the accused shall undergo simple imprisonment

for a period of 6 months. Accordingly, the Point No.1 is

answered in Affirmative. 32. POINT No.2 : In view of discussion held in Point
No.1, I proceed to pass the following: C.C.No..56870/2022

 Accused is sentenced to pay fine of
 Rs.5,54,800/- (Rupees Five Lakhs Fifty-four
 Thousand and Eight Hundred only) in default, the
 Accused shall undergo simple imprisonment for 6
 months. Further, it is made clear that out of fine
 amount, Rs.5,49,800/- (Rupees Five Lakhs Forty-
 nine Thousand and Eight Hundred only) is to be
 paid to the complainant as compensation and
 Rs.5,000/- is ordered to be remitted to the State.

 Bail bond stands cancelled. Supply the free copy of this judgement to the
 Accused forthwith. (Dictated to the Stenographer, transcript computerized by her,
 revised corrected and then pronounced by me in the open Court on
 this the 8th day of July, 2025)
 PARVEEN A Digitally signed by PARVEEN
 A BANKAPUR

 BANKAPUR Date: 2025.07.10 14:56:59
 +0530

 (PARVEEN A BANKAPUR)
 XXXIV ACJM, Bengaluru. ANNEXURE 1. Witnesses examined on behalf of Complainant: P.W.1 Mr. Praveen Jain 2. Documents marked on behalf of complainant: 3. Witnesses examined on behalf of Accused: 4. Documents marked on behalf of Accused: