SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Video Call S*xtortion Scam
DATE: 2023-08-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/15ruo8t/video_call_sxtortion_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I recieved a message from some Sonam Sharma on messenger with a 40-50 seconds screen recording of a video call of my jiju with an unknown girl which included a sex type call. Both had muted the call and we're involved in sexual acts. She then said if I wanted to save his reputation I should pay her 20k. Else she will share it online and share it with more people. I was a bit taken back, and spoke to jiju seperately and he agreed that he recieved a video call from an unknown number a week ago late night. There was a nude girl on the call. And he was shocked so he instantly hung up and blocked her. The scammers group then edited the footage with someone else's private video. He didn't file a complaint cz he was worried about his reputation and was trying to keep it hidden. He seperately asked many of his friends who recieved that message to delete it.

I spoke to a friend of mine who once told he he was once struck in such a scam in 2021. I called him up and he told a same story, about a unknown video call and then blackmailing. At that time many people were scammed this way. I showed him the screenshot and he recognised the pattern in video. It's like scripted and the same way this did. The striptease and the act. Just the girl was different.

I kept pestering jiju to tell it to his wife and he didn't want to. After a whole day of convincing he agreed to tell di (his wife) and file a complaint. Di was very scared and started crying. She asked why didn't Jiju tell her in the first place. She doesn't use facebook. Jiju didn't show her the video even after di asked. Finally it was agreed that the video wont be shown to any family member. 

I visited jiju at his office and suddenly notice that the desk and background of the video call screen recording was the same as Jijus. An exact same stack of file visible in the video was on his desk and the dustbin under his desk was also same. I saw the video again and confirmed it with his desk. Means there's more to the story, he was actually involved in the sex call. He is keeping it a secret.

I don't know what to do, should I mention this to di or let her belive that her husband is innocent. This might affect their relationship. Secondly is this really a scam going around like back in 2021? Or was Jiju cheating on di with someone and using it as a cover?