The Maharashtra Government notified the Aggregator Cabs Policy 2025, mandating guidelines on ride cancellations, surge pricing, and driver earnings, among others. The formal Government Resolution (GR) follows the Maharashtra Cabinet’s approval of the policy in April 2025, and applies to platforms like Ola, Uber, and Rapido.

Primarily, aggregators should be registered under the Companies Act, 2013, or registered as cooperative societies, limited liability partnerships, or Special Purpose Vehicles under relevant laws. Besides this, companies should have an office in Maharashtra and comply with applicable legal obligations, including the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000.

The aggregator should also maintain a website or app per security standards to deliver its services. The policy also outlines the following requirements:

Fare and distance regulations: First, aggregators should base ride fares on the base rates stipulated by the Regional Transport Authority (RTA). Further, platforms cannot offer discounts exceeding 25% of the fare during low-demand periods, and conversely, cabs cannot allow surge pricing to exceed 1.5 times the base fare. For context , surge pricing occurs when the demand for rides exceeds supply owing to weather-related conditions or rush hour, causing the fares to increase in real-time. Finally, the policy also sets the minimum trip distance for cab fares at three kilometres.

Driver earnings: Drivers should receive at least 80% of the total fare.

Safety measures: Vehicles should be equipped with real-time GPS tracking and emergency contact features. Additionally, platforms should conduct proper background checks before hiring drivers and ensure that they undergo training from recognised institutions during license renewal. Besides this, aggregators should ensure that both passengers and drivers have insurance.

Cancellatio n penalties: The policy mandates that both passengers and drivers must pay a cancellation fee to curb unwarranted/unnecessary ride cancellations. If a driver cancels a ride after accepting it, they would pay 10% of the fare or Rs 100 (whichever is lower), and the platform will credit this amount to the consumer. In contrast, a passenger would pay 5% of the fare or Rs 50 (whichever is lower) to the driver if they cancel a ride without any valid reasons.

Complaint redressal: Aggregators should provide efficient grievance mechanisms to resolve passenger and driver complaints.

EV transition: Aggregators should adhere to Maharashtra’s EV Policy 2025 and phase in the use of electric vehicles. Notably, the Government has announced a financial outlay of Rs 1,993 crore for the policy, while aiming to reduce the transport sector’s carbon and greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Clean Mobility Transition Model by 2030, as per a News18 report .

Besides establishing definitive guidelines around app-based cabs and auto-rickshaws, the policy also lists several requirements to enable carpooling.

For platforms: Platforms can only provide carpooling services via registered platforms. Furthermore, intermediary platforms should verify the identities of users and drivers, alongside maintaining insurance coverage for both.

For drivers: Drivers should provide details of the trip’s start and end time alongside destination information. Additionally, drivers can only undertake 14 carpool trips within seven days per user. Besides this, fares cannot exceed those set by the RTA and would be determined based on fuel, tolls, insurance, etc.

For users: Customers should furnish details of their residential and office addresses. For the safety of women passengers, they should have the option to travel with female drivers and/or passengers.

In a press release shared with MediaNama, the Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers (IFAT) and the Maharashtra Rajya Rashtriy Kamgar Sangh (MRRKS) welcomed the move, but asked for minor clarifications.

To begin, while a limit on surge pricing helps promote fair consistency, price manipulation should not affect drivers’ earnings, explained Shaik Salauddin, IFAT’s National General Secretary. Additionally, MRRKS President Rizwan Shaikh asserted that the Government should enforce the ‘80% fare share’ for drivers through digital audits and third-party monitoring, with platforms facing penalties in case of non-compliance.

Both associations also advocated for the Government to initiate sponsored training of drivers, subsidies for EV vehicle purchases, and state-funded charging infrastructure. Finally, the unions requested their representation in grievance redressal systems, and for disputes to be resolved within a specified time frame.

In February 2025, Uber, following in the footsteps of Rapido and Namma Yatri, revamped its platform into a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model for auto drivers. To explain, the platform would function solely as an intermediary, displaying the fare while allowing the rider and driver to negotiate the final amount. With this model, auto drivers would pay a subscription fee to the platform instead of being charged commission on every ride.

While the transition aimed to give drivers more control over their earnings, it could not adequately address persisting customer concerns. Previously, Rapido users have complained that its drivers only accept rides after the “mandatory” addition of a 20% to 30% tip. Recently, Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Pralhad Joshi, also rallied against the practice of ‘Advance Tip’ on Uber. Deeming it an “unfair trade practice”, Joshi announced that the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) had issued Uber a notice in this regard.

Maharashtra’s policy follows multiple user complaints against the operation of ride-hailing apps in the country. In January 2025, the CCPA issued notices to aggregators Ola and Uber to address issues of differential pricing for Apple and Android users. Furthermore, a survey published last year by consumer community platform LocalCircles disclosed that 75% of the 11,000-plus passengers who took part in the survey faced cancellations by drivers, while 62% reported surge pricing while availing such applications.

Coming to drivers, app-based transport workers have also highlighted operational issues with aggregators. In December 2024, the Telangana Gig and Platform Workers Union (TGPWU) announced a campaign to boycott airport trips by Ola, Uber, and Rapido in response to the persistent low fares imposed by such platforms. Overall, while the policy promises some relief for drivers and app users alike, its enforcement and adequate implementation remains to be seen.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event