SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Unpopular opinion : Christianity is the most peaceful religion.
DATE: 2023-07-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/150wf2h/unpopular_opinion_christianity_is_the_most/

--- POST TEXT ---

No, I do not care what's written in the scriptures of your religion. **A RELIGION MUST AND SHOULD BE IDENTIFIED BY THE COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR OF IT'S FOLLOWERS**. Religions that are overly protective about their identity and existence are the ones who would be more violent. If history is to be kept aside and present is to be considered then Christianity is officially the most peaceful religion today. Anyday more peaceful than the 3 major religions of our country. The religion had flaws, yes the religion was involved in barbarism and crusades during the medieval period, yes the Roman Empire was in involved in heinous activities (so were several indic empires of both Muslims and Hindus, lol). Yes the catholic church was too much involved with political and state affairs and meted out vile punishments to anyone who spoke against. Yes, the European settlers carried out mast killing of the natives in almost every continent they invaded. But today in modern times, things have changed 360°. They're the only religion that entertained and brought reforms to the religion like establishing protestant churches. They the only religion that saw the most amount of social revolutions, civic right movements and societal intellectualism and public changes. What does that mean? The followers were willing to invite changes. It is not at all the same with the other three major religions of our country, they're strictly against any changes and want to revive old times. Moreover, they're the only religion that has not been involved in any, any riots and ethnic killings post independence in our country. I have almost never seen a Christian man who is a radical in India. No Christian would shout inflammatory slogans. No Christian ever vouches for violence. You will never see any Christian taking out rallies with swords in their hand chanting violence inciting slogans. No Christian would beat you, lynch you, burn you alive, vandalise your house, abuse you, or worse behead you if you mock their god. Followers of this religion are generally educated, modern, liberal, employed, law abiding citizens. You would almost never find them involved in theft, murders, gangwars, riots, begging on road. They are almost never violent and overly insecure. Not to forget the most advanced, clean, peaceful, wealthy, liberal and progressive countries in the world where everybody wants to low key wants to go for vacation, settlements, employment keeping their internanl biases and prejudices aside are all Christian nations. 

With so many positives in modern time when people do not find anything substantial to malign their religion, the only thing they come up with, *"but, but but, they convert people"*. Thats the only excuse followers of other religions come up with to spew hate on them because they also know they do not have any valid stand.