1. This is an application seeking exemption from filing original
documents. Recording the Plaintiff's undertaking that the inspection of
original documents shall be given, if demanded, or that the original
documents shall be filed prior to the stage of admission/denial, the
exemption is allowed. I.A. is disposed of. I.A. 1120/2019 (additional documents) 2. This is an application seeking leave to file additional documents under
the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate
Division of High Courts Act, 2015 (hereinafter, ' Commercial Courts Act ').
The Plaintiff, if it wishes to file additional documents at a later stage, shall
do so strictly as per the provisions of the Commercial Courts Act . I.A. is
disposed of. I.A. 1119/2019 (filing documents in sealed cover) CS(COMM) 41/2019 Page 1 of 4 3. The documents filed, may be kept in a sealed cover. Issue notice,
returnable on 25th March, 2019. CS(COMM) 41/2019 4. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 5. Issue summons to the Defendant through all modes upon filing of
Process Fee including through email. 6. The summons to the Defendant shall indicate that a written statement
to the plaint shall be positively filed within 30 days from date of receipt of
summons. Along with the written statement, the Defendant shall also file an
affidavit of admission/denial of the documents of the Plaintiff, without
which the written statement shall not be taken on record. 7. Liberty is given to the Plaintiff to file a replication within 15 days of
the receipt of the written statement. Along with the replication, if any, filed
by the Plaintiff, an affidavit of admission/denial of documents of the
Defendant, be filed by the Plaintiff, without which the replication shall not
be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any
documents, the same shall be sought and given within the timelines
prescribed under the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 8. List before the Joint Registrar for marking of exhibits on 30th April,
2019. It is made clear that any party unjustifiably denying documents would
be liable to be burdened with costs. 9. List before Court on 25th March, 2019. I.A. 1118/2019 (u/O XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC ) 10. The Plaintiff, Wipro GE Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., has filed the present
suit for injunction restraining infringement of copyright, breach of
confidentiality and fiduciary duty, data theft, theft of trade secrets, breach of CS(COMM) 41/2019 Page 2 of 4 contract, damages, rendition of accounts, delivery up, etc. One of the
divisions of the Plaintiff company is the GE Healthcare division which is
engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of various healthcare
technologies, healthcare equipment and solutions. 11. The Plaintiff's case is that the Defendant, Shri Mahendra Mehra
started his employment with the Plaintiff in the year 1999 and over a period,
he was promoted to various positions. The last position held by him was
General Manager, Value and Affordable Care Portfolio, Critical Care
Solutions, South Asia. The Plaintiff received his resignation on 21st August,
2018. The Data Loss Prevention (DLP) check which was initiated pursuant
to his resignation revealed that the Defendant had transferred more than
37,000 files belonging to the Plaintiff into various external media storage
devices including hard drives, laptop and cell phone. The Defendant was
confronted with the said list of files. The Plaintiff was also able to trace back
his emails which revealed that he had in fact transmitted the data to
unknown email IDs. The Plaintiff then called upon the Defendant to sign an
undertaking that the Defendant would not misuse the data, which the
Defendant refused to provide. 12. One such undertaking has been placed on record at page No.95 of the
Plaintiff's documents. It is the case of the Plaintiff that despite long-drawn
correspondence in which various drafts of the undertaking having been
exchanged, the Defendant has refused to sign the undertaking that he would
not misuse or transfer the data to any third party. Hence, it is submitted by
Mr. Anand, learned counsel for the Plaintiff, that there is an apprehension
that the Defendant may reveal or divulge the proprietary data of the Plaintiff
to third parties or upload the same in the public domain which could cause CS(COMM) 41/2019 Page 3 of 4 severe loss to the Plaintiff. 13. Having heard the learned counsel for the Plaintiff and seen the
pleadings and the documents, the Plaintiff has made out a prima facie case.
Balance of convenience is in favour of the Plaintiff and irreparable harm
will be caused to the Plaintiff if the proprietary data is shared with third
parties or uploaded in public domain. Considering the fact that data could
be transmitted very easily by the Defendant, it is directed that the Defendant
shall remain restrained from reproducing the confidential information and
the data which has been copied from the Plaintiff's systems to any third
party or putting it in the public domain. The Defendant is further restrained
from using the data in any manner whatsoever till the next date of hearing.
The Defendant is directed to remain present on the next date of hearing. 14. The compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 CPC be made within three
days. 15. Reply to the application be filed within four weeks from service of the
present order along with the paper book. List the application before Court
on 25th March, 2019 for hearing. 16. Copy of the order be given dasti under signature of the Court Master. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. JANUARY 24, 2019
Rekha CS(COMM) 41/2019 Page 4 of 4