1 आयकर अपीलीय अधिकरण "डी" न्यायपीठ मुंबई में। IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 "D" BENCH, MUMBAI

 माननीय श्री महावीर स िंह, उपाध्यक्ष एवुं
 माननीय श्री मनोज कुमार अग्रवाल ,लेखा दस्य के मक्ष। BEFORE HON'BLE SHRI MAHAVIR SINGH, VP AND
 HON'BLE SHRI MANOJ KUMAR AGGARWAL, AM
 (Hearing Through Video Conferencing Mode)

 आयकर अपील िं./ I.T.A. No.6789/Mum/2019
 (धििाारण वर्ा / Assessment Year: 2014-15)
DCIT-4(1)(1) M/s Dharamshi Securities Limited
6th Floor, 640, Aaykar Bhawan बनाम/ 1073, Quest, Behind Beau Monde Towers
M.K.Road, Mumbai - 400 020 Vs. Rajabhau Desai Marg, Prabhadevi
 Mumbai - 400 025
 PAN No.: AAACD-3924-G
 (अपीलाथी/Appellant) : (प्रत्यथी / Respondent)

 Assessee by : Shri Paresh Shaparia- Ld. AR
 Revenue by : Shri Sunil Jha- Ld. CIT-DR

 ुनवाई की तारीख/
 : 25/05/2021
 Date of Hearing
 घोषणा की तारीख /
 : 27/07/2021
 Date of Pronouncement

 आदे श / O R D E R

Manoj Kumar Aggarwal (Accountant Member) 1. Aforesaid appeal by revenue for Assessment year (AY) 2014-15
contest the order of Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-9,
Mumbai [in short CIT(A)] dated 20/08/2019 on following grounds of
appeal: - incurred in the trading activity on account of derivative segment (futures and
 options) against the business income during the year without appreciating the fact 2 that AO has rightly treated the losses as speculative loss and not allowed to set off
 by invoking the provisions of Section 73(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. (ii) On the facts and on the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A)
 has erred in directing the AO to allow the set off of losses of Rs.5,41,879/- incurred
 in the trading activity in cash segment against the business income during the year
 without appreciating the fact that AO has rightly treated the losses as speculative
 loss and not allowed to set off by invoking the provisions of Section 73(1) of the
 Income Tax Act, 1961. 2. After hearing rival arguments, our adjudication to the subject matter
of appeal would be as given in succeeding paragraphs. Assessment Proceedings
3.1 The material facts are that the assessee being resident corporate
assessee stated to be engaged as share-broker was assessed for the
year under consideration u/s 143(3) on 15/12/2016. During assessment
proceedings, it transpired that the assessee incurred losses of
Rs.3163.45 Lacs in trading activity in derivative segment and earned
profit of Rs.389.62 Lacs in trading activity in cash segment. It also
earned speculation income of Rs.5.41 Lacs. On net basis, the assessee
incurred net loss of Rs.2768.41 Lacs in trading activity in cash segment
and derivative segment. In AY 2013-14, Ld. Ld. AO, invoking the
provisions of Section 73(1) , disallowed business loss after treating the
same as speculation loss. On similar lines, Ld. AO proceeded to disallow
the same in this year also. 3.2 The assessee submitted that no loss was incurred on transactions
in cash segment for daily square-off. The other losses were in derivative
segment which were to be treated as normal business loss as per Sec.
43(5)(d) of the Act. As a result, the provision of Sec.73 would not apply
to the case of the assessee,
3.3 However, considering the explanation to Section 73 which provide
that where any part of the business of the company consist in the sale 3 and purchase of shares then such company shall be deemed to be
carrying on a speculation business to the extent to which such business
consist of purchase and sale of shares and relying upon the decision of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in CIT V/s DLF Commercial Developers Ltd.
(261 CTR 126) which held that stock derivative value is dependent on
shares and therefore, the explanation to Sec. 73 would apply, Ld. AO
opined that the explanation to Sec. 73 was applicable and the losses
were speculative in nature. Consequently, the assessee was not entitled
for set-off of the losses. Further, the assessee was not covered under
any of the exceptions as provided in explanation to Sec. 73 . Finally, the
net loss of Rs.2768.41 Lacs was held to be speculative in nature which
would not be available for set-off against the business income. As a
consequence, transaction charges of Rs.84.07 Lacs as paid by the
assessee for executing the transactions at exchange were also held to
be speculative in nature. However, the same could be carried forward to
next year for set-off. Finally, the income was determined at Rs.430.95
Lacs which was allowed to be set-off against business losses of AY
2013-14. Appellate Proceedings
4.1 Before Ld. CIT(A), the assessee submitted that the sole business
of the assessee was to trade in cash segment and derivative segment
and to earn business income. The explanation to Sec.73 would not apply
to the assessee since as per Sec.43(5) , the losses in derivative (F&O)
segment are expressly excluded from being regarded as speculative in
nature u/s 43(5)(d) . Hence, the losses in derivative segment were to be
treated as normal business losses and allowed to be set-off against
income under cash segment. Since the assessee was covered under 4 this clause, the losses in derivative segment were to be treated as
normal business losses and not speculation losses. As per the
amendment introduced by Finance Bill, 2005, the distinction between
speculative and non-speculative transactions, particularly relating to
derivatives, was no more required. Reliance was placed on various
judicial decisions to support the submissions that derivative losses was
to be treated as normal business losses. The said income / losses in
assessment orders for AY 2009-10 as well as AY 2013-14 were
accepted by Ld.AO as normal business income while framing
assessment u/s 143(3) . In fact, in AY 2009-10, the Tribunal held that loss
from cash segment could be set-off against the profit of the derivative
segment and vice versa. It was held that activities of derivative and cash
segment go hand in hand and alike treatment is required to be given for
setting of losses of derivative segment against cash segment and vice
versa. The amendment to explanation 73 as inserted by Finance Act,
2014 was to be applied retrospectively from the date of its insertion to
explanation to Section 73 whereby the income from derivative and cash
segment was require to be treated as business only. In the said
background, the assessee also pleaded for allowance of transaction
charges as normal business expenditure. 4.2 The ld. CIT(A), in the light of assessee's submissions, noted the
decision of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Asian Financial
Services Ltd. V/s CIT (70 Taxmann.com 9). This decision, after
considering the aforesaid decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in DLF
Commercial Developers Ltd. (supra) held that the loss in derivatives
would be a business loss and not speculative loss. The Ld. CIT(A) also observed that this controversy has finally been
settled down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Snowtex
Investment Ltd. Vs Pr. CIT (205 Taxmann.com 282) which held that as
per the provisions of Sec.43(5) , the profit / loss from derivative trading
was not to be treated as speculative in nature. Therefore, the action of
Ld. AO in denying the set-off of these losses as well as denying
allowance of expenditure could not be upheld. Aggrieved as aforesaid, the revenue is in further appeal before us.
Our findings & Adjudication 5. After considering the ratio of decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in Snowtex Investment Ltd. Vs Pr. CIT (205 Taxmann.com 282), as
observed by Hon'ble Court that the provisions of Sec.43(5) were
amended by Finance Act, 2005 . Prior to the amendment, Section 43(5) defined a 'speculative transaction' to mean a transaction in which a
contract for the purchase or the sale of any commodity including stocks
and shares is settled otherwise than by the actual delivery or transfer of
the commodity or scrips. The impact of the amendment by the Finance
Act, 2005 was that an eligible transaction on a recognised stock
exchange in respect of trading in derivatives was deemed not to be a
speculative transaction. With effect from 01/042006, by deeming fiction,
trading in derivatives was not to be regarded as speculative transaction
when it was carried out on a recognized stock exchange. The CBDT
Circular dated 27/02/2006 indicated that this amendment was
occasioned by the changes which were introduced by SEBI both at the
legal and technological level for bringing in greater transparency in the
market for derivatives. Explaining the reason for the amendment, the
Circular stated as under: - 6. In the aforesaid case before Hon'ble Supreme Court, the assessee
sought set-off of losses arising out of trading in shares from derivative
income. The same was in view of the assertion that amendment to
Explanation to Sec.73 by Finance Act, 2014 was retrospective in nature.
However, rejecting the same, Hon'ble Court held that the amendment to
Explanation to Sec.73 was prospectively effective only from 01/04/2015
and therefore, the speculation losses arising out of share trading activity
could not be allowed to be set-off from income from trading in derivatives
since the derivative income, as per amendment made by Finance Act,
2005 was deemed not to be a speculative transaction. 7. In the present case before us, the assessee has incurred losses in
derivative segment and claim the set-off of the same as normal business
loss. It is undisputed fact that the derivative transactions are eligible 7 transactions carried out on recognized stock exchange. Therefore,
keeping in view the amendment brought in by Sec.43(5) w.e.f. AY 2006-
07, the derivative income / losses are to be deemed as non-speculation
in nature. 8. We find that Ld. AO, relying on the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High
Court in CIT V/s DLF Commercial Developers Ltd. (261 CTR 126),
held that stock derivative value is dependent on shares and therefore,
the explanation to Sec. 73 would apply and losses would be speculative
in nature. However, this decision has been considered by Hon'ble
Calcutta High Court in the cited decision of Asian Financial Services
Ltd. V/s CIT (70 Taxmann.com 9) which has already been referred to
by Ld. CIT(A) while adjudicating the issue. 9. The Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of CIT V/s Shri
Bharat R.Ruia (HUF) (10 Taxmann.com 265; 18/04/2011) held as
under: - Thus, in common parlance, the expression commodity means an article of trade or commerce
which are tangible in nature. 29. In the present case, the assessee had entered into futures contracts for purchase of shares
of certain companies at a specified future date and at a specified price, which were to be
settled in cash without actual delivery of the shares. Such a contract, whether constitutes a
contract for purchase of a commodity is the question. 30. As per the 'Hand Book on Derivatives Trading' published by the National Stock
Exchange of India Limited ("NSE' for short), a futures contract is an agreement between two
parties to buy or sell an asset at a certain time in the future at a certain price. There are
various types of futures available for trading at the NSE. An investor can trade the 'entire
stock market' by buying index futures instead of buying individual securities with the
efficiency of a mutual fund. The advantages of trading in index futures as per the Hand Book
on Derivatives Trading published by the NSE are :-- 31. Futures contracts in both index as well as stocks can be bought and sold through the
trading members of recognized stock exchange. Futures contracts expire on the last Thursday
of the expiry month. All futures contracts are settled in cash either on a daily basis or at the
expiry of the respective contracts as the case may be. Clients/Trading members are not
required to hold any stock of the underlying for dealing in the Futures Market. There are
presently 53 stocks which can be traded under the Futures/Options Contracts. 32. To illustrate, suppose the share value of a company 'X' in the Stock Exchange on 1st
January is Rs. 100 per share. If an investor considers that the shares of Company 'X' are 9 likely to shoot up in the next three months, then he may, if he has funds, purchase 100 shares
of company 'X' on 1st January itself by paying Rs. 10,000 at the rate of Rs. 100 per share. In
the alternative, he may enter into a futures contract on 1st January itself to purchase 100
shares of company 'X' on 29th March at Rs. 12,000 inclusive of brokerage charges, etc. In
such a case, the assessee is not required to make payment on 1st January. If on 29th March
the value of 100 shares of company 'X' on the Stock Exchange are Rs. 13,000 then the
assessee would be making profit of Rs. 1,000 by setting the futures contract at Rs. 12,000. If
the value of 100 shares of company 'X' on 29th March on the stock exchange are Rs. 11,000
then by paying Rs. 12,000 under the futures contract, the assessee would incur loss of Rs.
1,000. 33. Thus, the futures contracts being articles of trade and commerce which are legally
permitted to be traded on the stock exchange, the transactions in futures would be
transactions in a commodity as contemplated under section 43(5) of the Act. Ordinarily a
transaction in a commodity relates to purchase/sale of an asset which is tangible and which is
capable of being delivered. However, section 18A of the 1956 Act inserted with effect from
22-2-2000 provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time
being in force, contracts in derivative (like futures contracts) shall be legal and valid if such
contracts are traded on a recognized stock exchange and settled on the clearing house of a
recognized stock exchange in accordance with the rules and bye-laws of such stock
exchange. Thus, by operation of law, the transactions in futures are made legal and valid
even if the underlying securities permitted to be purchased/sold under the futures contracts
are not tangible and incapable of actual delivery, provided such transactions are traded on a
recognized stock exchange and settled on the clearing house of a recognized stock exchange.
Moreover, section 43(5) of the Act provides that a transaction for purchase/sale of any
commodity would be a speculative transaction if it is settled otherwise than by actual
delivery. For the purposes of section 43(5) , it is not necessary that the commodity agreed to
be purchased or sold must be capable of actual delivery. Therefore, future contracts for
purchase/sale of an underlying security permitted to be traded on the stock exchange and
settled otherwise than by actual delivery would be speculative transactions under section
43(5) of the Act. 34. It is contended that the expression 'commodity' does not include 'stocks & shares',
however, for the purposes of section 43(5) , the expression 'commodity' has been expanded to
include 'stocks & shares' and since transactions in derivatives are not specifically included in section 43(5) , the same would fall outside the purview of section 43(5) . We see no merit in
the above contentions. The expression 'commodity' would cover all articles of trade
including stocks & shares. Even under section 43(5) , the expression 'commodity' is not
expanded to include 'stocks & shares'. In fact, use of 'comma' in between the word
'commodity' and the words 'including stocks & shares' in section 43(5) make it clear that
transactions for purchase of any commodity would include transaction for purchase or sale of
stocks & shares. In other words, section 43(5) does not seek to expand the scope of
expression 'commodity' but merely emphasizes that the transaction in commodity includes
transactions in stocks & shares. Therefore, transactions in futures contracts like transactions
in stocks & shares when settled otherwise than by actual delivery would be speculative
transactions under section 43(5) of the Act. 35. The argument that section 43(5) refers to contracts which are capable of settlement by
actual delivery whereas the transactions in futures are incapable of settlement and therefore,
transactions in futures would fall outside the scope of section 43(5) is also without any merit,
because, the very object of section 43(5) is to treat transactions which are settled otherwise
than by actual delivery as speculative transactions. As noted earlier, section 43(5) refers to
contracts for purchase/sale of any commodity and it is not restricted to contracts which are 10 capable of performance by actual delivery. Therefore, the fact that the futures contracts are
settled otherwise than actual delivery cannot be a ground to hold that the futures contracts
are not speculative transactions under section 43(5) of the Act. 36. The exceptions enumerated in the proviso to section 43(5) clearly provide that where
speculative transactions are carried out with a view to guard against loss in respect of
contracts for actual delivery in cases referred to in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of the proviso,
then, such speculative transactions shall not be deemed to be speculative transactions. So far
as the transactions covered under clause (d) are concerned, they are deemed not to be
speculative transactions only with effect from 1-4-2006. Therefore, the transactions covered
under clause (d) would not be treated as speculative transactions only with effect from 1-4-
2006. 37. The argument advanced on behalf of the assessee that clause (d) inserted to the proviso to section 43(5) by Finance Act, 1995 with effect from 1-4-2006 is clarificatory and hence
retrospective in nature, cannot be accepted, because, firstly, the Legislature by Finance Act,
1995 has specifically provided that clause (d) to the proviso to section 43(5) shall come into
operation prospectively with effect from 1-4-2006. Secondly, insertion of clause (d) was not
necessitated on account of the fact that the provisions of section 43(5) were unworkable or
interpretation of section 43(5) resulted in unintended consequences. Thirdly, even after
insertion of clause (d), all transactions in derivatives are not taken outside the purview of section 43(5) . It is only those derivative transactions which are covered under clause (d) are
taken outside the purview of section 43(5) and the rest of the transactions in derivatives
would continue to be covered under section 43(5) of the Income-tax Act. In these
circumstances, the argument that clause (d) inserted to the proviso to section 43(5) has
retrospective effect cannot be accepted. 38. We do not consider it necessary to deal with various decisions relied upon by the
Counsel for the assessee, as in our opinion, all those decisions are distinguishable on facts.
However, we may note that the decision of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Nirmal
Trading Co. (supra) wherein it is held that the 'letters of renunciation' are neither transactions
in commodity nor transactions in shares, has no relevance to the facts of the present case,
because, firstly, the letters of renunciation cannot be treated on par with futures contracts and
secondly letters of renunciation are not articles of trade, whereas futures contracts are articles
traded on the stock exchange. Various decisions of the ITAT wherein it is held that the
derivative transactions are not speculative transactions, in our opinion, do not correctly
interpret section 43(5) of the Income-tax Act. Similarly, various decisions of the Apex Court
relied upon by the counsel for the assessee in support of the contention that insertion of
clause (d) to the proviso to section 43(5) of the Income-tax Act is retrospective in nature are
also distinguishable on facts as the ratio laid down therein have no relevance in interpreting
the provision of section 43(5) of the Income-tax Act. The futures contracts cannot be equated
with insurance contract, because, unlike futures contract, the insurance contract is not an
article of trade which can be traded. Thus, the futures contract being an article of trade
created by an authority under the 1956 Act, the transactions in futures contracts would
constitute transaction in commodity under section 43(5) of the Income-tax Act. 39. In the result, we hold that the exchange traded derivative transactions carried on by the
assessee during assessment year 2003-04 are speculative transactions covered under section
43(5) of the Act and the loss incurred in those transactions are liable to be treated as
speculative loss and not business loss. We further hold that clause (d) inserted to the proviso
to section 43(5) with effect from 1-4-2006 is prospective in nature and the ITAT was in error
in holding that clause (d) to the proviso to section 43(5) applied retrospectively so as to apply
to the transactions carried on by the assessee during assessment year 2003-04. 40. For all the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal filed by the Commissioner of Income-
 tax by answering the questions raised in the appeal in the above terms with no order as to
 costs. In para-36, it is the observation of Hon'ble Court that so far as the
transactions covered under clause (d) are concerned, they are deemed
not to be speculative transactions with effect from 01/04/2006. 10. Going by the ratio of above binding judicial precedents, we are of
the considered opinion that Ld. CIT(A) has clinched the issue in the
correct perspective. The losses arising to the assessee in derivative
segment are not to be considered as speculative in nature by virtue of
clause (d) to sub-section (5) of Sec.43 . The same are to be treated as
normal business losses. This being so, the set-off of the same would be
allowed in accordance with the law. Ground No.1 of the appeal stand
dismissed. Ground no.2 would stand dismissed in view of the fact that
the assessee has earned profit of Rs.389.62 Lacs in trading activity in
cash segment and speculation income of Rs.5.41 Lacs. There are no
losses under both the segments. The ground raised by the revenue is
misplaced. 11. Resultantly, the appeal stand dismissed in terms of our above
order. आदे शकीप्रधिधलधपअग्रेधर्ि/Copy of the Order forwarded to :