By Karthika Rajmohan

2025 has been the year of Artificial Intelligence (AI). On January 6, 2025, India’s IT Ministry published a report by a sub-committee under an Advisory Group chaired by the Principal Scientific Advisor titled ‘AI Governance and Guidelines Development’ for public consultation.  Then, on January 30, 2025, the India AI Mission put out a call for proposals for building India’s foundational AI models. This is a clear indication of India throwing its hat into the global AI race.

A recurring theme in India’s position towards AI development is using it for societal change. So far, this has cropped up in two forms.

On February 12, 2025, Prime Minister Modi, in a statement , highlighted that India would leverage its AI potential for public good and national development. However, as pointed out by experts, ground reality has emerged as a contrast to this statement. As can be seen in the example of Lucknow which set up AI-powered CCTV cameras to detect harassment of women, are claimed to become active as soon as the woman’s facial expression changes.  AI technology has already been harnessed by the government through Facial Recognition Technology (‘FRT’) for policing and the harms regarding the same on increased surveillance and profiling have already been raised by experts.

The second area of focus seems to be governance and delivery of public services. The report on AI Governance and Guidelines Development has a dedicated section on leveraging technology for the same. The report uses terms such as ‘techno-legal approach’ and ‘digital by design’ without sufficient contextualisation and mechanics. While there is mention of safeguards, there is no clarity about what they are, how they can minimise risks, or how implementation will work given the self-learning nature of AI.

One might argue that AI could be a useful tool to reduce red tape and fast-track government projects. But any new technology, especially a relatively novel one such as AI, ought to be accompanied by safeguards. To date, the Union government is putting the cart before the horse by diving head first into AI deployment in governance without creating any guardrails for ethical use. What exactly are the harms that could occur when AI is leveraged for the delivery of public services? The most likely risks are twofold —the risk of exclusion and the risk of discrimination.

It is a well-accepted fact that there is a digital divide in India. A 2022 report by Oxfam states that 70% of the population in India has poor or no connectivity to digital services while close to 40% of mobile subscribers still do not have access to a smartphone. The report goes on to show how the digital divide intersects with pre-existing structure of inequality. For instance, among the poorest 20% of households, only 2.7% have access to a computer and 8.9% to internet facilities. The difference in the likelihood of having access to a computer is as high as 7-8% between the general/Other Backward Classes and the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe population. There is a gap of 40% between men and women when it comes to owning smartphones. Evidently, not only is there a digital divide, this divide runs along the contours of gender, caste and class inequalities. Thus, it would be an oversimplification to reduce the issue of digitisation to one of access only.

Existing research studying the digitisation of government services in India shows that digitisation leads to exclusion due to a lack of access to technology. As early as 2017, digitisation and Aadhaar linkage of the Public Distribution System in Jharkhand was observed to compound the occurrence of exclusions, leakages and corruption. Reports show that the effort to digitise the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (‘MNREGA’) has made it increasingly difficult for digitally illiterate persons to benefit from the scheme.

The general direction of digitisation in India is clear—increasing digitisation is leading to increased levels of exclusions due to a lack of technological access. Now, if the government were to integrate a more complex technology like AI, into an already imperfect system of digital public services, the existing exclusions are bound to get more complicated. The introduction of AI is likely to reduce the amount of human interactions between beneficiaries and bureaucrats, thus, reducing the avenues that the digitally illiterate, who are the most marginalised sections of society, have for accessing public benefits.

Algorithmic bias is an issue that has been well documented and accepted as a significant concern with AI models. This bias creeps into AI models due to a mix of human bias as well as biases inherent in the data that is used to train AI models. Biases have already been observed in AI-driven FRT in India. Amongst the dozens of people arrested using FRT in the aforementioned Delhi’s Jahangiripuri communal violence, a significant chunk were Muslims, raising concerns about profiling.

Apart from FRT, AI bias has also been observed in generative AI and other Large Language Models (‘LLMs’). A 2024 study by the University of Washington attempted to detect bias in AI by testing LLMs for overt harmful content. The researchers had eight LLMs (which included two ChatGPT models) generate 1,920 conversations around race and caste. Out of the conversations, 69% of the conversation around caste, and 48% overall, contained harmful content.

The risks of algorithmic bias in AI are almost inevitable. The most pressing concern is that the Indian government has yet to come up with any guardrails to prevent AI bias. As of today, the development and deployment of AI in governance is likely to come before any law, regulation or policy on non-discrimination. The Indian government is playing with fire without an extinguisher.

The bias in private LLMs is concerning, but if AI models used in the delivery of public services start depicting biases and discriminatory tendencies, this becomes a violation of fundamental rights under the Indian Constitution. The violation of rights by an AI model that is self-learning becomes tricky in terms of ascertaining responsibility, enforcing compliance and levying penalties. Jurisprudence is still nascent on the point of legal liability of AI models.

Despite the popular belief that leveraging AI leads to efficiency of processes, some have argued that the use of AI models in the delivery of public services leads to ineffective utilisation of resources, lack of access, and a failure to meet policy objectives. A lens that can used to study the delivery of public services is the theory of access proposed by Schaffer and Huang . Premised on the observation that a significant chunk of the money allotted to a government benefit programme for farmers in India was unspent, they argue that the failure of the scheme was not one of policy, but of access. Schaffer and Huang propose a model of a ‘queue’ to understand the path citizens take to obtain benefits from the government. The queue consists of three parts: gate, line and counter. The gate consists of the rules of admission for a citizen to apply for benefits, the line refers to the order in which applications are considered and the counter is where a bureaucrat decides on a claim.

Source: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740624X20303269?via%3Dihub#bb0200

Research has exported this theory to the digitisation of services and analysed how automation leads to exclusion, increased burden on citizens and deepening social inequalities. It can be argued that all these fallacies of automation in the public sector will be heightened through the use of AI.

Consider applying Schaffer and Huang’s theory to an AI model introduced by the government to provide loans to MSMEs. First, at the gate, a large chunk of the population would be excluded due to a lack of access to computer resources. As explained above, the ones who would be excluded would be the most marginalised existing at the disadvantaged intersection of class, caste and gender. This would mean that the benefits of the scheme would be completely inaccessible to the most vulnerable sections of the population.

Second, consider the line. It is likely the LLM powering the automated loan provision interface would have a set of rules and qualifications to select apt applications for the grant of a loan. The line would involve navigating online forms and submitting applications. This could prove to be burdensome to a large section of the Indian population, which as explained earlier, lacks reliable access to and understanding of technology. Assume that despite all this, a worthy candidate overcomes exclusion and manages to gain access to computer resources and follows the due process. Since the AI models to select recipients for the loan would automate the selection process, AI bias and discrimination would enter the decision-making at this juncture. It is highly unlikely that self-learning LLMs can be trained to be fully devoid of algorithmic bias at this stage in global AI development. Thus, at the line, prejudice along the lines of class, caste and gender would lead to unfair selection processes.

Lastly, at the counter, it is assumed that a human being would make the decision to grant a claim. However, by the time the application reaches this point, the process has already been rendered ineffective by access exclusion at the gate and by biases while in the line. In effect, AI-powered delivery of public services will alienate people through the digital divide and will deepen social inequalities by making services more accessible and biased in favour of the privileged.

In summation, the creation of an equal, ethical and unbiased AI model is yet to materialise. India ought to be prioritising setting guardrails and ethical guidelines before deploying AI in governance. However, even with guardrails, given that we are far from bridging the digital divide and mitigating biases in datasets from entering AI models, the harms of automated AI-leveraged public services are likely to outweigh the benefits.

Karthika Rajmohan is a lawyer and policy researcher who studies the interdisciplinary intersection of law, technology, sociology and political theory .

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event