Order of the Court was delivered by Krishnan Ramasamy, J.,

 The challenge in this Writ Petition is to an order passed by the fifth

 respondent, dated 07.08.2018 and to quash the same with a consequential

 direction to the respondents to declare the petitioner as Scheduled Caste

 Hindu-Chakkiliyan Community and issue a Community certificate to that

 effect. http://www.judis.nic.in 3 2. The facts of the case, which led to the filing of this Writ Petition

 are as follows :- After the enrollment, she has been practicing as an Advocate at Erode and

 other various Courts. ii) When the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (henceforth,

 referred to as 'TNPSC'), second respondent invited applications for Direct

 Recruitment to the post of Civil Judge (Junior Division) for the year 2013-

 14, the petitioner applied for the said post. In the said application, she has

 mentioned that, she belongs to Hindu Chakkiliyan Community, which was

 notified as a Schedule Caste Community. The petitioner further stated that

 after scrutiny of her application, she was allowed to write examination for

 the aforesaid post. In the written examination, she has scored 188 marks

 and in the oral examination, she has secured 38.25 marks. Totally, she has

 secured 226.25 marks. TNPSC informed that she was selected provisionally

 and conditionally for an appointment by direct recruitment to the post of

http://www.judis.nic.in 4 Civil Judge (Junior Division) in the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service for

 the year 2013-14, and such selection is subject to the receipt and acceptance

 of the report regarding the genuineness of the community certificate, from

 the District Vigilance Committee/fifth respondent. Therefore, she was

 directed by TNPSC to appear before the District Vigilance Committee as

 and when summoned and she was asked to await for further communication

 from the appointing authority, the first respondent herein. iii) The petitioner was not called for an enquiry by the third

 respondent till 06.06.2016, and therefore, she gave a request (Monday

 petition). Thereafter, the third respondent, vide memorandum dated

 27.06.2016, directed the petitioner to appear for an enquiry before the

 District Collector, Erode, fourth respondent on 04.07.2016 around 4'o clock.

 Accordingly, the petitioner participated in the enquiry and produced all

 necessary documents to substantiate her claim that she belongs to Hindu-

 Chakkiliyan Community. During the course of personal appearance, the

 petitioner specifically stated that her father, Mr.Velkumar belongs to Hindu-

 Chakkiliyan Community and she also produced the photocopies of the

 community certificate issued to her blood relatives and the blood relatives

http://www.judis.nic.in 5 also appeared in person and gave statements to the effect they all belong to

 Hindu-Chakkiliyan Community. The District Collector also directed the

 third respondent to do Field Inspection, and thereafter, the petitioner

 received a summon from the District Collector, Erode, dated 23.11.2017, in

 which, she was asked to appear before the District Vigilance Committee on

 01.12.2017 at 3.30pm. In the meantime, on 30.11.2017, the petitioner also

 received a telephone call from the third respondent asking her to appear

 before them for enquiry and the petitioner also appeared, as directed. iv) The third respondent, vide communication dated 03.01.2018,

 directed the petitioner to produce documents pertaining to her mother and

 relatives, and so far as the documents produced by the petitioner in relation

 to her husband' is concerned, it is stated that, it only relates to the divorce

 obtained from him and the petitioner has not produced the community

 certificate of her husband's and she was asked to produce all such

 documents on or before 12.01.2018. v) The petitioner further contended that, her mother Mrs.Pushpam

 was born at Erode District and the grandmother of the petitioner

http://www.judis.nic.in 6 Dhanalakshmi belongs to Adidravida Community and her grandfather

 Duraisamy was born at Trichy and he also belongs to Schedule caste

 Community. The petitioner's parents marriage was an arranged marriage

 and they got married on 08.07.1976 at Sangameshwarar Temple, Bhavani,

 Erode District. The petitioner's mother studied up to 6th standard and

 discontinued 7th standard due to poverty. Since the family of the

 petitioner's mother faced so many problems, because of their community

 (Scheduled caste), in order to get social status, the community status of the

 petitioner's mother was mentioned as Hindu Devar, a Backward Class

 Community in the School Certificate. vi) The petitioner got married to Mr.Dharmendran, on 10.03.2008 at

 Thindal Murugan Kovil, Erode as per Hindu rites and customs. Her husband

 belongs to Scheduled caste Community. However, the marital relationship

 between them was not fruitful and they got separated. The petitioner has

 furnished all the details as sought for by the third respondent, viz.,

 documents related to her mother, parents of the petitioner's mother, and ex-

 husband of the petitioner on 11.01.2018. The Thasildar, Erode, vide her

 letter addressed to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Erode, dated 04.12.2015

http://www.judis.nic.in 7 categorically stated that the Community Certificate (Scheduled caste)

 produced by the petitioner was issued by her office vide Sl.No.1871 of 2013

 dated 20.12.2013. vii) It is the further case of the petitioner that she was provisionally

 selected by TNPSC for the post of Civil Judge (Junior Division) and all the

 candidates, who were selected along with the petitioner have been already

 appointed and so far as the petitioner is concerned, though she was selected

 for the said post, she was not given appointment under the guise of

 verification of her community certificate. She has fully cooperated for the

 enquiry and produced all documents to substantiate her claim. For the

 reasons best known to the respondents, they failed to issue the community

 certificate, and therefore, the petitioner is deprived of an opportunity to get

 appointed as Civil Judge (Junior Division, 2013-2014). viii) Since there was enormous delay in deciding the issue, the

 petitioner approached this Court by way of filing a Writ petition before the

 Hon'ble Division Bench, in W.P.No.18176 of 2018 and sought for a

 mandamus, directing the 3rd and 4th respondents to submit a report about

http://www.judis.nic.in 8 the genuineness of her Community Certificate to the second respondent and

 for consequential relief. The said petition was disposed by the Hon'ble

 Division Bench, vide order, dated 20.07.2018, directing the 3rd and 4th

 respondents to submit a report about the genuineness of the petitioner's

 Community Certificate to the TNPSC within a specified time. ix) Pursuant to the above order, the petitioner had approached 3rd

 and 4th respondents and submitted the copy of the order of this Court, upon

 which, the petitioner was directed to appear for an enquiry along with her

 parents and relatives. During such enquiry, statements were obtained from

 the petitioner, her parents and brothers and relatives. Thereafter, without

 making any further enquiry and without making a spot visit to the native

 place, where, the petitioner and her relatives are living and without

 ascertaining the Culture they follow, the fifth respondent passed an order,

 cancelling the Scheduled Caste (Hindu-Chakkiliyan) Community Certificate

 issued by the Thasildar, Erode and declared that the petitioner belongs to

 Hindu-Konguvellalar community, a Hindu Backward Class Community.

 Aggrieved by such cancellation, the present Writ Petition has been filed for

 the relief as stated supra. http://www.judis.nic.in 9 3. The fourth respondent District Welfare Officer of Scheduled

 Caste and Scheduled Tribes filed a counter affidavit on their behalf and on

 behalf of the third respondent, District Collector, wherein, it is stated as

 follows:- http://www.judis.nic.in 10 ii) In pursuant to the report called for by the second

 respondent/TNPSC, the fourth respondent/District Collector sought for a

 detailed report from the Revenue Divisional Officer, Erode and Revenue

 Divisional Officer, Tiruppur. As per the direction, the Revenue Divisional

 Officer, Tirupur, conducted an enquiry and submitted a report, dated

 23.12.2015, stating that the petitioner belongs to Hindu-Chakkilian

 Scheduled Community, but for the purpose of social status, the petitioner's

 father has obtained the Hindu-Konguvellalar (Backward) Community

 Certificate to her. The Revenue Divisional Officer, Erode, vide his report

 dated 26.05.2016 stated that Tmt.Gomathi (petitioner) belonged to Hindu-

 Chakkiliyan, Scheduled Class Community, and the certificate bearing

 no.771327 vide sl.no.1871/2013 dated 20.12.2013 issued by the Tahsildar,

 Erode is genuine. iii) Based on the reports of the RDO Tiruppur and RDO, Erode and

 the petitioner was summoned to appear before the respondent office along

 with the persons, who were blood relatives and also with the supportive

 documents to prove her claim. On the date of enquiry, i) petitioner, ii) her

 mother Tmt.V.Pushpam, W/o Velmurugan, iii) Thiru Perumal, son of

http://www.judis.nic.in 11 Guruvan, a relative of the petitioner, iv) Tmt.Madheswari, wife of

 K.M.Duraisamy, a maternal relative of the petitioner, v) Tmt.Susella, wife

 of Appusamy, another maternal relative of the petitioner, and vi) Public

 residing at Kalingarayanapalayam village have appeared and statements

 were obtained from them. During such enquiry, the petitioner and all her

 blood relatives clearly stated that they belong to the Hindu-Chakkiliyan

 Scheduled Community and her family members also stated that they belong

 to Scheduled Caste Community. iv) It is further emanated from such enquiry that the parents of the

 petitioner had thought to follow the Backward Class community and got the

 Hindu-Konguvellalar community certificate included in the list of Backward

 Caste community to the petitioner. Therefore, the petitioner, from the

 childhood was holding the Backward Class community certificate, and

 therefore, committed offence for having received the Scheduled Class

 Community Certificate after the stage of adolescence with an intention to

 get certain concessions from the Government. Hence, it is clear that the

 petitioner wrongly used the protection conferred under the Articles of the

 Constitution of India and cheated the Government.

http://www.judis.nic.in 12 v) Further, it is stated that the petitioner has falsely claimed that she

 belongs to Hindu-Chakkiliyan Community, and thereby, suppressed the fact

 that her mother belonged to "Devar Community" which comes under the

 Backward Class Community. So far the petitioner's father is concerned, it is

 stated that the father of the petitioner allegedly thought that since the name

 of "Velan" pertains to Scheduled Caste Community, he got corrected his

 name as "Velkumar" in the Service Book as per the Gazette Publication and

 thus, intended to hide his actual community, Hindu - Chakkiliyan.

 Therefore, it is stated that the entire family members have hidden the fact, as

 to which, Community, they originally belonged to and these controversies

 are not acceptable before the law. vi) Since the petitioner had followed the Backward Class

 Community Certificate, as Hindu-Konguvellalar upto her College studies,

 and now, she suppressed the fact, it was concluded that the Scheduled Caste

 Community Certificate obtained by her is null and void. Despite the fact

 that the District Collector, Erode, sent a report stating that the Scheduled

 Caste Community Certificate obtained by the petitioner as Hindu-

 Chakkiliyan Community, is not a valid certificate, the second

http://www.judis.nic.in 13 respondent/TNPSC sought for a report from the District Vigilance

 Committee', which should be signed by a Committee, constituting three

 members, and it should be in the form of proceedings and requested to send

 the genuineness report regarding community claim of the petitioner in the

 prescribed format. However, pending such proceedings, the petitioner filed

 W.P.No.18176 of 2018, seeking for a direction on the respondents 3 and 4

 to submit a report about the genuineness of the petitioner's community

 Certificate to the second respondent and to direct the first

 respondent/Appointing Authority to appoint the petitioner as a Civil Judge

 (Junior Division 2013-014) and the said Writ Petition was disposed of, by

 order, dated 20.07.2018, directing the respondents 3 and 4 to submit a

 report about the genuineness of the petitioner's Community Certificate to

 the TNPSC within the specified time. vii) It is further stated that as per the order of the Hon'ble Division

 Bench on 20.07.2018, and on the request of the second respondent/TNPSC

 and also on the appeal petition dated 26.07.2018 of the petitioner, the

 petitioner was summoned to appear on 07.08.2018 before the District

 Vigilance Committee, Erode District, Erode. So on the date of enquiry. the

http://www.judis.nic.in 14 petitioner, her father Thiru.Velkumar, her mother Tmt.Pushpam and her

 brother Thiru. Prabhu appeared and their statements were obtained. It is

 stated that the petitioner, her father, mother and brother have stated on the

 same line that they belong to Hindu-Chakkiliyan and they obtainedd Hindu-

 Konguvellar Community Certificate, a Backward Class Community only for

 the purpose of Social status, however, still they are following the customary

 habits of scheduled Caste community continuously. However, the fifth

 respondent District Vigilance Committee has passed a speaking order vide

 the proceedings Na.Ka.No.26548/2015 T6 dated 07.08.2018 (impugned

 herein), stating that upon enquiry, it is found that the mother of the

 petitioner belongs to "Hindu Devar" community, which is a Backward class

 Community and Thiru. Velkumar, father of the petitioner belongs to Hindu-

 Chakkiliyan community, which is included in the list of Scheduled Caste

 and they have got inter-Caste marriage. The District Vigilance Committee

 concluded the enquiry and declared that the petitioner belongs to the

 Backward class community and cancelled the Hindu-Chakkiliyan

 (Scheduled Caste) Community Certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Erode, on

 the following grounds:- According to these Government Orders, the locus-
 standi of the petitioner is not acceptable to restore the

http://www.judis.nic.in 16 SC community certificate claim after suppressing the
 fact of the Backward class community certificate
 already received. (c) In the W.P.No.23673/99 the Honorable High
 Court of Andhra Pradesh has issued the order dated
 01.12.1999 with regard to obtain the community
 certificate by the Inter-caste married couple that
 "13.Before parting with the case, it is not out of place
 to take judicial notice of the distressing and disturbing
 trends becoming more and more rempant wherein
 citizens who were born, brought up in forward caste
 families with all social, economic and cultural
 advantages are staking claims for garnering the
 benefits conferred by the State under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution. There are cases of
 persons claiming such a benefit on the basis of false
 and fabricated community certificates and there are
 cases where the children after reaching the stage of
 adolescence claiming reservation by engineering
 adoptions into down-trodden families and there are
 cases where the off-springs of inter-caste marriage
 couplers though brought up in the family of the parent
 belonging to forward caste, still claiming reservation at
 crucial stage of education, for admission to
 professional courses. If the persons are not allowed to
 enjoy the benefits of reservation either in education or

http://www.judis.nic.in 17 inn public employment and the same are snatched away
 by persons not legally entitled to the same amounts to
 paying fraud on the constitution. A person takes a
 convenient advantageous position in the society to
 which he/she is not entitled to by a process of novel
 impersonation that he, in fact, belongs to reserved
 class. More often than not, the authorities who are
 competent to issue community certificates unwillingly
 or intentionally become part of the fraud. The Courts,
 especially the constitutional Courts, alone can abat
 such a situation. As otherwise, the philosophy of Articles 15(4) and 6(4) of the constitution aimed at
 Indian Constitution's preambular goal of social justice
 would be an illusion. Therefore, this Court is under a
 duty to prevent such ill-advised adventures like the
 petitioner in the present case" In this judgment it was
 categorically said that the children of the inter-caste
 married couple, who has got the backward class
 certificate for the social status would not be acceptable
 to claim the scheduled caste community certificate
 after attaining the stage of adolescence of the their
 children. (d) Though the father of the petitioner belongs
 to the Schedule Caste and the mother of the petitioner
 belongs to the "Dever" community listed in the
 backward class, they have got the Inter-caste marriage

http://www.judis.nic.in 18 but the parents have not got the related community
 certificate either from the father's community or
 Mother's community and they have got the third
 community by violating the Government orders that
 too the father of the petitioner has been working as
 Village Administrative Officer and who well known
 about the importance of the community certificates. (e) The petitioner has got the Kongu-vellalar
 community certificate for her studies in the School and
 the Colleges and without cancellation of the Backward
 Class Certificate received from the Taluk Office,
 Titruppur and got another community certificate
 belongs to the Schedules Caste from the Taluk Office,
 Erode. But the petitioner has stated that she has not
 known about the procedures for the cancellation of the
 previous certificate when applying for another
 certificate. The statement of the petitioner is not
 acceptable about non-knowing the cancellation of the
 previous certificate. (f) The petitioner has got the scheduled Caste
 community certificate purely for gaining the
 Government concession which was against the Rules
 and Regulations framed by the Government. (g) The brother of the petitioner has stated that

http://www.judis.nic.in 19 he has got the Backward class community certificate
 and followed the culture of the Backward class
 community which is not acceptable one since there was
 no chance for different followers in different in the
 same family. (h) From the statements of the family members
 of the petitioner, it was very clear that the parents of
 the petitioner has aimed to follow the Backward class
 culture in the society and got the Backward class
 community certificate. (i) As per the rules and regulations framed by
 the Government that if any individual has got the
 community certificate ones, it should not be changed to
 the another community and according to the rules and
 regulations of the Government it is confirmed that the
 community of the petitioner Tmt.V.Gomathi is Hindu
 Backward Class. (j) It was ordered the community certificate
 issued by the Tahsildar, Erode to the petitioner
 Tmt.V.Gomathi belongs to the Hindu-Chakkiliyan
 Community is hereby cancelled." http://www.judis.nic.in 20 viii) Therefore, the respondents 3 and 4 insisted for dismissing the

 Writ Petition as being devoid of merits. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that

 the petitioner originally belonged to Scheduled Caste Community, and she,

 in her own capacity has also obtained a Hindu-Chakkiliyan Scheduled Caste

 community certificate bearing No.7713127-Sl.No.1871/2013 from the

 Tahsildar, Erode on 20.12.2013. The petitioner's father, mother, brother,

 all her maternal blood-relatives and her husband belong to Hindu-

 Chakkiliyan Community, a Scheduled Caste Community. The learned

 counsel further submitted that though the respondents in the enquiry

 conducted with regard to the genuineness of the petitioner's community

 certificate found that the mother of the petitioner belongs to "Hindu Devar" 5.1) Further, the learned Special Government Pleader submitted that

 the petitioner for the purpose of getting good education, followed the

 Backward Class community certificate and soon after completing her

 studies, lured by the concession/subventions given by the Government for

 the purpose of encouraging the Scheduled Caste people to come up well in

 the Society, she obtained a Scheduled Caste Community Certificate.

 Therefore, it is clear that the petitioner wrongly used the protection

 conferred under the Articles of the Constitution of India and deceived not

 only the School Authorities, Educational Institutions, but also the

 Government, which act, is reprehensible one. Therefore, the Scheduled

 Caste Community Certificate obtained by the petitioner from the Tahsildar,

 Erode, is a not valid certificate and has been rightly cancelled by the fifth

 respondent. 5.2) The learned Special Government Pleader further submitted

 that, though it is the contentions of the petitioner that it is her father, who is

http://www.judis.nic.in 26 responsible for the change of the petitioner's communal status, and she is no

 way responsible, and at the adolescent age when she came to know of her

 actual communal status, she took steps and obtained the Scheduled Caste

 Community Certificate, the same are all utter false and not acceptable, and

 the reason for the petitioner to make such somersault is only for the sake of

 getting concessions/subventions from the Government, especially, to get

 appointment under the reservation quota, meant for Scheduled Caste

 Candidate. Therefore, the learned Special Government Pleader submitted

 that the fifth respondent is justified in cancelling the Scheduled Caste

 Community Certificate obtained by the petitioner, and prays for dismissal

 of the Writ Petition. 6. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties concerned

 and perused the documents available on record, including the detailed

 counter affidavit filed by the third respondent and fourth respondents. 7. It is an undisputed fact that the Zonal Deputy Tahsildar,

 Tiruppur has issued a community certificate mentioning the petitioner's

 caste as Backward Class (Hind- Konguvellalar) Community. The Tahsildar,

http://www.judis.nic.in 27 Erode has also issued a community certificate, to the effect that the

 petitioner belonged to Hindu-Chakkiliyan Scheduled Caste Community.

 Since the second respondent/TNPSC raised a doubt with regard to the

 genuineness of the petitioner's community certificate, the fourth

 respondent/District Collector called for reports from the RDO, Tiruppur and

 RDO, Erode. i) The RDO, Tiruppur, filed a report dated 23.12.2015, stating that

 the petitioner originally belonged to Hindu-Chakkiliyan Community,

 however, for the purpose of social status, her father had obtained the

 petitioner's community certificate, as if, she belonged to the Hindu-

 Konguvellalur Backward Class Community. ii) Similarly, RDO, Erode also filed a report, dated 26.05.2016,

 stating that the petitioner belonged to Hindu-Chakkiliyan Community and

 the certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Erode bearing No.771327 vide

 SL.No.1871 of 2013 is genuine. http://www.judis.nic.in 28 iii) Further, even in the enquiry conducted by the District Adi

 Dravida Welfare Officer, on 04.07.2016, wherein, the petitioner, her father,

 mother and brother given statements, which were all on the same line that

 they belong to Hindu-Chakkiliyan, a Scheduled Caste Community and they

 are following the customary habits of scheduled Caste community

 continually, and the Tutelary God, worshiped and venerated by the

 petitioner, her parents and paternal grand parents is the same God

 worshiped by the Hindu Chakkiliyan Community people, and the native

 place, where, the petitioner is born and brought up is of the same place,

 where, the Hindu Chakkiliyan caste originated. But, only for the sake of

 social status, they thought to follow the Backward Class (Hindu-

 Konguvellalar) Community. iv) Thus, when there is clear-cut finding rendered by both the RDOs

 in their individual reports dated 23.12.2015 and 26.05.2016, and finding of

 the District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer in the enquiry conducted on

 04.07.2016, stating that the petitioner and her parents originally belonged to

 the Scheduled Caste (Hindu-Chakkiliyan) Community, the fifth respondent

 ought to have declared that the petitioner belongs to Scheduled Caste

http://www.judis.nic.in 29 Community. In fact, the fifth respondent, District Vigilance Committee,

 which was comprised of three officials, viz., i) District Collector, Erode, ii)

 Dr.S.Udhayakumar, a Senior Lecturer, Cultural Anthropologist, Tribual

 Research Centre, M.Palada, Udhagamandalam and iii) Thiru.M.Sekar, the

 District Welfare Officer of Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribes, Erode,

 conducted an enquiry, and what has been emanated from the said enquiry is

 also the same fact, as found out by the RDO, Tiruppur, RDO, Erode and

 District Adi Dravida Welfare Officer. v) Further, the fifth respondent themselves have categorically

 observed in the impugned order that the marriage of the petitioner's parents

 is an inter-caste marriage and that the children born to the inter caste

 marriage people shall follow either the father's community or mother's

 community. Thus, they ought to have passed an order, declaring the

 petitioner to be belonging to a Scheduled Caste (Hindu-Chakkiliyan)

 Community, since the petitioner has followed the father's community, viz.,

 Hindu-Chakkiliyan Community. Rather, they passed the order, declaring

 the petitioner to be a Hindu-Konguvellalar Backward Class Community

 person, which is not akin either to her father's Community or mother's

http://www.judis.nic.in 30 Community. Thus, the impugned order passed by the fifth respondent

 shows not only non application of mind but also arbitrariness. It is not

 known as to what made the fifth respondent to pass such order, cancelling

 the petitioner's Scheduled Caste Certificate, when evidences are available to

 prove that she and her parents, her grandparents originally belonged to

 Scheduled Caste Community. But, we smell that keeping in mind that the

 petitioner is going to be benefited by availing the Scheduled Caste

 Community Certificate the fifth respondent has passed such an order which

 is quite contrary to the reports filed by the RDOs, Tiruppur and Erode, and

 District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled

 Tribes. vi) Further, we would like to point out that it is the petitioner's father,

 who was responsible for such change in the Community Certificate, and for

 the fault attributable to the petitioner's father, the petitioner cannot be

 denied her legitimate claim. When the petitioner, on attaining majority,

 came to know that she actually belonged to Scheduled Caste Community,

 she rectified the said error, by obtaining a Community Certificate related to

 a caste, to which, her father originally belong to, which shows her bona fide

http://www.judis.nic.in 31 attitude. Thus, the petitioner, in her own capacity obtained the Scheduled

 Caste Community Certificate and we do not find any mal practice played

 by the petitioner, as alleged by the respondents. vii) Though it is the contention of the learned Special Government

 Pleader for respondents 1, 3 to 5 that the petitioner, for the purpose of

 getting good education, followed the Backward Class community certificate

 till completion of her studies and after completing her studies, in order to

 get employment opportunity and also with a view to make use of the

 concession/subventions given by the Government for the persons, belonging

 to Scheduled Caste Community, she obtained a Scheduled Caste

 Community Certificate to suit her own requirement and the petitioner has

 misused the protection conferred under the Articles of the Constitution of

 India is not sustainable, for the reason that, it was only due to caste bias

 prevailing in the Society and to prevent the petitioner from facing any

 humility or discrimination at the hands of the upper class people in the

 Society, the father of the petitioner has mentioned the caste of the petitioner

 as Hindu-Konguvellalar, a Backward Class Community in the School and

 other Educational Records and also obtained Community Certificate to that

http://www.judis.nic.in 32 effect. Other than that, neither the petitioner nor her family members have

 enjoyed any other benefits by claiming themselves to be a Backward Class

 people. viii) Further, we would like to point out, when the petitioner herself

 has come forward and obtained a Community Certificate, declaring her to be

 a Hindu-Chakilliyan Community, Scheduled Caste Community, it is not

 known as to what prevented the respondents from declaring the petitioner

 to be Scheduled Caste person is not known. ix) Further, we also record our rebuke over the Committee for

 having kept the issue pending for long time. The petitioner was

 provisionally selected for an appointment to the post of Junior Civil Judge

 in the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in the year 2013-14 and

 doubt/query raised by the second respondent/TNPSC with regard to the

 genuineness of the Communal Status of the petitioner, was in the year 2015,

 and the impugned order passed by the fifth respondent/District Vigilance

 Committee is in the year, 2018 (07.08.2018). The purpose, for which, the

http://www.judis.nic.in 33 State Level Scrutiny Committee was constituted is only to find out the

 authenticity of the Community Certificate issued by the State and to file a

 report in that regard, based on which, the Government would find out

 whether the benefit granted by them has been put to use in a rightful manner

 or any mal practice has been done. Therefore, the State Level Scrutiny

 Committee is expected to finish of the matters not more than six months

 time, instead of keeping the same pending for a long time. Since there

 happened to be delay in deciding the issue, the petitioner has been deprived

 of an opportunity becoming a Civil Judge (Junior Division) so far. x). In this context of the case, we deem it appropriate to refer to the

 constitutional philosophy enunciated under Article 15 of the Constitution of

 India, which would run thus:- http://www.judis.nic.in 35 xii) We wish to point out here that, it is the bounden duty of the State

 to safeguards the interests of the people, who does not belong to creamy

 layer. After all, what the petitioner seeks is nothing but an opportunity to get

 appointment to the post of Civil Judge, under the reservation quota for

 Scheduled Caste Candidates, for which, she got qualified. First of all, it has

 to be appreciated that the person, who belonged to Scheduled Caste

 Community has reached upto the level of becoming a Civil Judge, rather,

 than remained as a bottleneck from letting the petitioner to relish the benefit

 granted by the Government to the Scheduled Caste persons. xiii) This is a classic example, where, a person, who, in reality,

 belonged to Scheduled Caste Community, due to caste bias prevailing in the

 area, where, the particular community predominantly have majority, was

 forced to hide her real caste and this was due to the people, and even after

 revelation of her original caste (SC) again, she has been put to sufferings

 and this would clearly show that the benefits and protections available

 under the Constitution of India have not reached fully to the scheduled caste

 people, and the petitioner's case is an example for that. If the respondents

 had found that the petitioner is in possession of two Community

http://www.judis.nic.in 36 Certificates, the first step, which they should have taken is to find out as to

 which Community, the petitioner originally belonged to by conducting

 enquiry. In the present case, though such enquiry was conducted and the

 petitioner also by producing all necessary documents and by cooperating in

 the enquiry, has proved without an iota of doubt that she belong to

 Scheduled Caste Community, the fifth respondent also having found that

 the petitioner belongs to Hindhu-Chakkiliyan Community, ought to have

 cancelled the Backward Class Community Certificate obtained by the

 petitioner's father and retained the Scheduled Caste Community Certificate

 obtained by the petitioner, instead, they did vice-verse, which is contrary to

 their conscience. xiv) Further, in the case on hand, it is seen that the privilege and

 protection provided under the Constitution to the underprivileged people

 has not reached in full since independence 1947, inequality prevails

 amongst the people. Bearing in mind some incidents, where, the persons

 belonging to other Community had tried to hoodwink the Government so as

 to get the benefits granted by the Government,, taking the same into

 consideration, the respondents should not put spoke to the people, who

http://www.judis.nic.in 37 really belong to the Scheduled Caste Community. Of course, it is the duty of

 the State to ensure that no such incident affecting the constitutional right of

 the people take place. 8. We would also wish to make it clear that, just because, we are

 setting aside the order passed by the fifth respondent, it does not mean to

 say that, what was done by the petitioner's father is right, but taking into

 consideration the caste bias prevailing in the area, where, petitioner's father

 is living, the situation and circumstances with which the petitioner's father

 has been placed, and also for the purpose of social status and to avoid his

 daughter from facing any discrimination and humiliation, we find that same

 would have perhaps forced him to mention the caste of his daughter,

 (petitioner) as Hindu-Konguvellalar, Backward Class Community, in order

 to avoid any sort of untouchability and inequality due to her caste. Other

 than that, we do not find that in order to gain any benefit, the petitioner's

 father has made such change in the Community Certificate. 9. In the light of the above findings and observations, this Writ

 Petition is allowed, the impugned order passed by the fifth respondent,

http://www.judis.nic.in 38 District Vigilance Committee, dated 07.03.2018, cancelling the Scheduled

 Caste Hindu-Chakkiliyan Community certificate issued by the Tahsildar,

 Erode No.7713127, vide Sl.No.1871/2013, dated 20.12.2013, is set aside

 and we uphold that the said Scheduled Caste Hindu-Chakkiliyan

 Community as genuine. Consequently, the Community Certificate issued

 by the Zonal Deputy Tahsildar, Tirupur, mentioning the petitioner as Hindu-

 Konguvellar (Backward) community certificate bearing

 No.1948271.Sl.No.2467/1991-94 is declared to be null and void. The

 respondents 3 and 4 are directed to issue a Community certificate to the

 petitioner, mentioning her caste to be a Hindu- Chakkiliyan, Scheduled

 Caste Community and also submit a report in the prescribed formate as

 required by the respondents 1 and 2 within a period of two weeks from the

 date of receipt of a copy of this order. No costs. Consequently, connected

 Writ Miscellaneous Petition is closed. R.P.S.J., K.R.J
 14.03.2019
 Index : yes/no
 Speaking Order/Non speaking
 sd/ av

 Note to Office: Issue order copy on .04.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in 39 To 1. The Secretary to Government,
 The State of Tamil Nadu
 Home (Courts -1) dept
 Fort, St.George, Chennai - 9. 2. The Secretary,
 The Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission
 Frazer Bridge Road,
 VOC Nagar, Park Town, Chennai. 3. The District Welfare Officer of Scheduled Caste
 And Scheduled Tribes,
 office of the District Welfare Officer of Scheduled Caste
 And Scheduled Tribes,
 Collectorate, 5th Floor,
 Erode District. 4. The District Collector,
 Collectorate, Erode District. 5. The District Vigilance Committee,
 Erode District. http://www.judis.nic.in 40 R.Subbiah,J.,
 &
 Krishnan Ramasamy, J.,

 sd/av

 Writ Petition No.23681 of 2018

 14.03.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in