The present appeal has been filed against the order dated

October 29, 2020 passed by the Adjudicating Officer (hereinafter

referred to as 'AO') of Securities and Exchange Board of India

(hereinafter referred to as 'SEBI') imposing a penalty of Rs. 25 crore

under Section 15HA of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as ' SEBI Act ') for violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act read with Regulations 3 and 4 of the

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent

and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market)

Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as 'PFUTP Regulations'). 2. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeal is, that the

board of directors of the company known as Winsome Yarns Ltd.

passed a resolution on September 3, 2010 for opening a bank account

with European American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter referred

to as 'EURAM Bank') for depositing the GDR proceeds. By the said

resolution, the managing director was also authorised to sign and 3 execute an agreement as may be required by the bank and take such

steps from time to time on behalf of the company. The resolution

further resolved to use the funds so deposited in the aforesaid bank

account as security in connection with loan, if any, as well as to enter

into any escrow agreement or similar arrangements if and when so

required. 3. The resolution approved by the board of directors resolved

that a bank account would be opened with EURAM Bank for the

purpose of receiving the subscription money in respect of GDR issue.

Further, Mr. Manish Bagrodia, managing director of the company

was authorised to sign and execute an agreement as may be required

by the bank and take such steps from time to time on behalf of the

Company. The resolution further resolved to use the funds deposited

in the aforesaid bank account as security in connection with the loan,

if any as well as to enter into any escrow account or similar

arrangement if and when so required. 4. Based on the aforesaid resolution, the Company issued 1.99

million GDRs for USD 13.24 million dated March 29, 2011. The

aforesaid GDR was subscribed by one entity, namely, Vintage FZE 4 (hereinafter referred to as 'Vintage') and a corporate announcement

was made by the company that the entire issue was subscribed. 5. SEBI conducted an investigation pertaining to the issue of

GDR by the Company. Based on the investigation, a show cause

notice dated September 11, 2019 was issued to the company, its

directors and other entities to show cause as to why suitable

directions under Section 11 and 11B should not be issued for

violation of Section 12A(a) , (b), (c) of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3(a) , (b), (c), (d) and 4(1), 4(2)(f), (k), (r) of the Securities

and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair

Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003

(hereinafter referred to as 'PFUTP Regulations'), Section 21 of the

Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to

as the ' SCR Act ') read with Clauses 32, 36(7) and 50 of the Listing

Agreement and Section 23E of the SCR Act. 6. The show cause notice alleged that pursuant to the resolution

dated September 3, 2010 not only a bank account was opened with

EURAM Bank but the managing director executed a pledge

agreement dated March 22, 2011 on behalf of the company based on

which a loan agreement dated March 22, 2011 was executed between 5 Vintage and EURAM Bank in which the proceeds of the GDR was to

be kept as security with EURAM Bank. The show cause notice

further alleged that the pledge agreement and the loan agreement was

not disclosed to the stock exchange and, consequently, the investors

and shareholders were kept in the dark. The show cause notice

further alleged that based on the pledge agreement and the loan

agreement EURAM Bank advanced USD 13.24 million to Vintage

which amount was utilised by Vintage to subscribe to the entire

issue. The GDR proceeds were pledged as security till such time the

loan was repaid by Vintage. It was also alleged that the fact that

Vintage was the sole subscriber was not intimated to the stock

exchange and to the Indian investors and, accordingly, the company

and its directors were charged with violation of Section 12A of the

SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 7. The AO after considering the evidence on record found that

the entire scheme of using the GDR proceeds to fund a subscriber to

the GDR issue was a fraudulent scheme and violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations.

The AO found that the GDR was subscribed by one entity, namely,

Vintage and not by six entities as disclosed by the company vide its 6 letter dated July 6, 2015. The AO further found that on account of

the pledge created by the company with EURAM Bank the funds

were not made available at the company's disposal and the same

became available in tranches as and when the loan amount was

repaid by Vintage. Further, the loan agreement was not disclosed to

the stock exchange and to the Indian investors. Further, the

disclosure made by the company to the stock exchange that the GDR

issue was fully subscribed was misleading as the investors were not

informed that the GDR was subscribed by only one entity and,

therefore, the scheme hatched by the company and its directors was

violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of

the PFUTP Regulations. 8. The AO found that the non-disclosure of the loan agreement

and the pledge agreement was violative of Clause 36 of the Listing

Agreement as well as Section 21 of the SCRA Act read with Clause

32 and 50 of the Listing Agreement since the company had not

complied with the accounting standards and since the balance lying

in the EURAM Bank was not free cash. The AO, however, found

that Vintage repaid the loan amount over a period of time in

instalments. 9. Against the said order of the AO dated May 28, 2021, Appeal

Nos. 716 and 717 of 2021 were filed by M/s. Winsome Yarns Ltd.

and its managing director. This Tribunal by its order dated July 19,

2022 affirmed the order of the AO for the violations committed by

the company. However, the penalty imposed upon the company and

the managing director was reduced and their appeals were partly

allowed. 10. In so far as the appellant Arun Panchariya is concerned, he

was noticee nos. 9 in the show cause notice. The facts against him

are stated hereunder :- (iii) In order to finance the subscription of the GDRs of

 the company, Vintage availed a loan of USD 13.24

 million from EURAM Bank under a loan agreement

 dated 22.03.2011. (iv) The aforesaid loan was secured by the company by

 way of pledge of the GDR proceeds under the

 Pledge Agreement dated 22.03.2011. The pledge

 agreement authorised Euram Bank to apply the

 GDR proceeds to settle the obligations of Vintage

 under the loan agreement. (v) Out of total loan amount of USD 13.24 million,

 Vintage defaulted in the repayment of the loan to the

 extent of USD 6.05 million and thereby the GDR

 proceeds to that extent were adjusted by Euram

 Bank. Hence, Vintage acquired GDRs of the

 company to the tune of USD 6.05 million free of

 cost. (vi) Thereafter, the appellant is alleged to have sold the

 GDR to Foreign Institutional Investor (hereinafter 9 referred to as 'FII') which, in turn, sold the

 converted equity shares in the Indian securities

 market. It was alleged that the appellant noticee

 nos. 9 was connected with Golden Cliff and its two

 sub-accounts Aspire Emerging Fund (hereinafter

 referred to as 'Aspire') and Highblue Sky Emerging

 Market Fund (hereinafter referred to as 'HSEMF')

 who acted as a conduit to the appellant noticee nos.

 9 in selling converted equity shares of the company

 and acted as party to the fraudulent scheme. In this

 way, the equity shares sold by HSEMF and Aspire

 were acquired by Vintage free of cost and caused a

 loss of USD 6.5 Million i.e. loan default to the

 shareholders of noticee nos. 1 i.e. the company. (vii) It was also alleged that the two sub-accounts Aspire

 and HSEMF sold 54.36 lakh converted equity shares

 amounting to Rs. 69.21 lakh in the Indian securities

 market. (viii) The show cause notice alleged that the appellant

 was a key person in devising and structuring the 10 fraudulent scheme relating to the GDR issue by the

 company and was directly or indirectly connected to

 all the noticees involved at every stage and aspect of

 the GDR issue i.e. from the start of issuance of the

 GDR through its lead manager Pan Asia and

 thereafter subscribing to the GDR through Vintage

 as the sole subscriber and subsequent conversion of

 the GDR into equity shares and sale of such equity

 shares in the Indian securities market through

 Golden Cliff, Aspire and HSEMF. (ix) The show cause notice also alleged that the

 appellant was connected to all these noticees. 11. The AO after considering the material evidence on record

held that the appellant noticee nos. 9 devised and structured

fraudulent scheme with the GDR issuer company i.e. Winsome and

through his connected entities involving Vintage, Pan Asia Advisors

Ltd. Mukesh Chauradiya, HSEMF, Aspire and Golden Cliff.

Vintage subscribed to GDR issue by entering into loan agreement

with EURAM Bank for which Winsome pledged its GDR proceeds 11 as security. Vintage subsequently defaulted on repayment of balance

loan amount of USD 6.05 million. Therefore, GDRs to the extent of

USD 6.05 million were issued free of cost to Vintage. FII sub-

accounts, namely, HSEMF and Aspire who were connected to the

appellant received and converted GDRs and sold the converted

equity shares of Winsome in the Indian securities market. The FII,

namely, Golden Cliff who was also connected to the appellant

facilitated HSEMF and Aspire in conversion of GDRs and sale of

converted equity shares. Thus, noticee no. 9, i.e. the appellant

devised GDR scheme alongwith Winsome wherein Winsome misled

the Indian investors by concealing the information of entering into

pledge agreement and informing GDR related news in a distorted

manner to the stock exchanges which made investors believe that

GDRs were genuinely subscribed. 12. The AO further found that the GDR subscription was

structured in a manner whereby the noticee no. 9 controlled

subscriber, Vintage, acquired the GDRs without spending a penny,

through pledge of the GDRs and GDR proceeds against the loan used

for subscription. Thus, no funds actually flowed to the company,

until Vintage repaid the loans. While Vintage repaid part of the loan, 12 and funds to that extent did flow to Winsome, an amount of USD

6.05 million was defaulted by Vintage. Hence, Winsome did not get

equivalent funds against the equity it had issued, leading to a loss of

USD 6.05 million to Winsome shareholders, whose valuation were

diluted by the expanded equity capital, without any funds flowing to

the company. In INR, this amount works out to approximately

Rs. 27 crore at an exchange rate of Rs. 45. 13. The AO found that noticee no. 9, i.e. the appellant devised a

GDR scheme alongwith Winsome wherein Winsome misled the

Indian investors by concealing the information of entering into

pledge agreement and informing GDR related news in a distorted

manner to stock exchanges which made investors believe that GDRs

were genuinely subscribed. Through this scheme, noticee obtained

GDRs worth USD 6.05 million / Rs. 27 crore free of cost.

Subsequently, 60% of the GDRs were converted into equity shares.

47% of the converted equity was sold by noticee related entities

HSEMF and Aspire in Indian market for Rs. 69.21 lakh. 14. The AO also found that the appellant was connected to

various entities who were noticees to the show cause notice and were

part of scheme. The AO found that the appellant was connected to 13 Vintage, Pan Asia Advisors Ltd., India Focus Cardinal Fund,

EURAM Bank Austria, EURAM Bank Asia Ltd., Mr. Mukesh

Chauradiya, Mr. Anant Kailash Chandra Sharma, HSEMF, Golden

Cliff and Aspire. 15. We have heard Mr. Sandeep Wadhawan, the learned

counsel with Mr. Suvir Tondon, the learned counsel for the appellant

and Mr. Sumit Rai, the learned counsel with Ms. Nidhi Singh, Ms.

Deepti Mohan, Ms. Hubab Sayed, Mr. Raghav Taneja, the learned

counsel for the respondent. 16. The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the

AO has failed to consider various submissions made by the appellant

which are captured in the reply to the show cause notice. It was

contended that the appellant is not the beneficiary nor is the

perpetrator of the alleged irregularities. It was contended that the

GDR was issued by the issuer company who had appointed its own

custodian bank who, in turn, informed the depository bank that it has

received the certificate and the same was in its custody. The

depository bank, in the instant case, was bank of New York Mellon.

The job of the lead manager was to facilitate the listing of the GDR

over the stock exchange abroad and its purpose was to find a foreign 14 subscriber for which the lead manager charged a fee. In the instant

case, Pan Asia did not charge any fee. It was further contended that

the sole subscriber Vintage had purchased the GDR for valuable

consideration. Further, the termination of the GDR and thereafter

converted it in shares and thereafter sale in the Indian market had

nothing to do with the appellant. The appellant had no connection

with the alleged entities and the finding given by the AO is patently

erroneous. 17. It was urged that the entire money which was subscribed

through GDR was received by the company Winsome and

consequently, the allegation that Vintage got the GDR without any

cost is incorrect. It was urged that the fact that the money has been

received back by Winsome has been acknowledged by this Tribunal

in its order dated July 19, 2022 in Appeal Nos. 716 and 717 of 2021

and, consequently, this finding of the AO that Vintage got the GDR

free of cost is without any basis. It was urged that the show cause

notice contained 29 annexures and that annexure 29 related to the

connection of the appellant with other entities. It was contended that

a perusal of Annexure 29 would indicate certain connections of the

appellant with certain entities which were referred to in different 15 annexures which annexures were not part of the show cause notice

nor the said annexures were supplied. Consequently, it was urged

that reliance by the respondent on Annexure 29 showing the

connection with the other entities without producing the relevant

annexures was patently erroneous. It was further contended that the

appellant had no connection directly or indirectly with any of the

entities who had converted the GDRs into equity shares and sold it in

the Indian market. Further, there is no proof that the proceed of the

shares sold in the Indian market was received by the appellant. 18. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we are of

the view that the entire scheme which has been depicted in the show

cause notice and in the impugned order can be safely divided into

two parts. The first part related to the issuance of the GDR with the

Winsome and the second part relates to the conversion of the GDR

into equity shares which were subsequently sold to the investors in

the Indian market. 19. In so far as the first part is concerned, the contention that the

appellant had no role to play in the issuance of the GDR or the fact

that he was not involved in the manipulative scheme or the fact that

he was not the beneficiary cannot be accepted. 20. We find that Pan Asia was the lead manager for the GDR

issue of the company. The appellant was the 100% shareholder of

Pan Asia and was also the managing director. The appellant was,

thus, the beneficial owner and in-charge of the affairs of the Pan Asia

during the period of investigation and during the period when the

company came out with the GDR issue. The contention that the

appellant had resigned and, therefore, was not responsible for the

GDR issue is erroneous. The appellant had resigned not on its own

volition but on account of the fact that the appellant was restrained

by an interim order passed by SEBI. 21. The appellant was also the beneficial owner of Vintage and

was the managing director of Vintage as on June 7, 2010. Alkarni

Holdings Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 'Alkarni') was the 100%

shareholder of Vintage as on December 28, 2010 and the appellant

was the sole shareholder and director of the Alkarni as on April 21,

2014. Therefore, directly and indirectly the appellant was the

beneficial owner of Vintage and Vintage was fully controlled by the

appellant through 99.94% shareholding control. The fact that the

appellant was owner of Vintage was also found by this Tribunal in its

judgment in Pan Asia Advisors Ltd. & Anr. vs. SEBI Appeal No. 17 126 of 2013 decided on October 25, 2016, whereas this Tribunal

held as under :- are held by AP and his relatives." 22. In addition to the aforesaid, Vintage was the sole subscriber

of the GDR issues. Vintage obtained a loan from Euram Bank.

Euram Bank and Pan Asia had a joint venture in UAE in the name of

Euram Bank Asia Ltd. in which Euram Bank held 51% of the

shareholding and Pan Asia held 49% of the shareholding. The

appellant was the Director and President of this joint venture in UAE

and only resigned when an interim order was passed by SEBI. 23. The role of the appellant in connection with the issue of GDR

by a set of six companies was also considered by this Tribunal in Pan Asia Advisors Ltd. & Anr. (supra), wherein this Tribunal held

that the acts of the appellant amounted to fraud under the provisions

of the SEBI Regulations. This Tribunal held as under :- 18 24. These findings are equally applicable in the instant case. A

total fraud was played by Arun Panchariya. He was the 100%

shareholder in Pan Asia who advised the company to subscribe to the

issuance of GDR. Pan Asia was the lead manager of which Arun

Panchariya was the beneficial owner and found a subscriber, namely,

Vintage in which the appellant was the beneficial owner. Euram

Bank gave a loan to Vintage and the lead manager advised the 20 company to give a guarantee to the loan to be taken by the

subscriber, namely, Vintage and, accordingly, a pledge agreement

was executed, based on which the company pledged its shares to

Euram Bank. Thus, the appellant as managing director of Pan Asia

got the GDR of company issued for the subscription by foreign

investors and, on the other hand, as beneficial owner of Vintage took

a loan to subscribe the entire GDR of the company. Vintage was the

sole subscriber and used the loan given to it by Euram Bank which

loan was acquired by a pledge given by the company. On account of

100% subscription of the GDR, the investors in India were made to

believe that in the global market the issuer company had acquired a

high reputation in terms of investment potential and hence the

foreign investor / investors had fully subscribed to the GDR, when in

fact, the GDR was subscribed by the appellant through Vintage. 25. Thus, in our view, the appellant through Pan Asia as a lead

manager attempted to mislead the investors in India that the GDR

had been subscribed by the foreign investors when in fact the GDR

was subscribed by the appellant through Vintage. Such attempt to

mislead the investors in India, in our opinion, constitutes a fraud on

investors under the PFUTP Regulations. 26. Consequently, we are in agreement with the findings given

by the AO to the effect that the scheme adopted by the appellant in

the issuance of the GDR and in the subscription of the GDR by

Vintage and the loan taken by Vintage through the pledge agreement

issued by the company were fraudulent and violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act read with Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. 27. We also find that the appellant, by virtue of his ownership

and directorship in Pan Asia (Lead Manager to the GDR Issue) and

Vintage (sole subscriber) was in collusion with the Issuer company

along with other entities closely related and connected with the

appellant, had implemented and executed a fraudulent scheme

regarding subscription of GDRs of the company wherein a false and

misleading impression was made upon the investors in India that the

company had acquired a high reputation in the global market in terms

of investment potential and hence the foreign investors have fully

subscribed to the GDRs, when in fact, the GDRs were subscribed by

Vintage, a company owned and managed by the appellant, thereby

constituting fraud under the provisions of the SEBI Act read with the

PFUTP Regulations. 28. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in its judgment in Securities

Exchange Board of India v. Pan Asia Advisors Ltd. & Anr. [(2015)

14 SCC 71] has elaborated on the effect of GDRs on the local

investors and how the global performance of the issuing company

lures local investors to make investments at a higher price on account

of the investment made by the foreign investors. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court held :- 29. We may, however, add that the finding of the AO that the

default made by Vintage in the repayment of the loan to the tune of

USD 6.05 million and, therefore, Vintage acquired the GDR free of 23 cost is incorrect in as much as a specific plea was raised by the

company Winsome to the effect that the subscription money was

received by the company through proper channels though belatedly.

This fact was found to be correct by this Tribunal in our order dated

July 19, 2022 passed in Appeal Nos. 716 and 717 of 2021 filed by

Winsome and its managing director. Thus, the finding on this issue

is incorrect. 30. With regard to the second leg of transaction, we find that the

AO has only dealt with this area in one paragraph, namely, paragraph

no. 48 which is extracted hereunder :- 31. The basis of connection which is alleged has been depicted

in paragraph no. 40. Prima-Facie, the connection shown in

paragraph no. 40 of the impugned order is vague. It is the alleged 24 that the basis of connection as can be culled out from paragraph nos.

40 of the impugned order is that one Reema Narayan Shetty was an

authorized signatory for the bank account of India Focus Cardinal

Fund (hereinafter referred to as 'IFCF') in which the appellant was a

director. Reema Shetty was also a director of Golden Cliff which is

the FII. The sub-accounts of Golden Cliff were HSEMF and Aspire

and Reema Shetty is shown to be the beneficial owner of HSEMF.

On this basis, the connection of the two sub-accounts of Golden Cliff

is alleged to be connected to Arun Panchariya. 32. Paragraph nos. 48 of the impugned order shows that the two

sub-accounts, namely, HSEMF and Aspire received GDR which

were converted into equity shares. From whom the sub-accounts

received the shares is not known i.e. whether the sub-accounts

received the shares from Vintage or from Winsome. The show cause

notice indicates that the sub-accounts purchased the shares for

valuable consideration. Paragraph nos. 48 of the impugned order

indicates that the sub-accounts sold it in the Indian market for

Rs. 69.21 lakh. It is not known who received this money, namely,

whether it remained with the sub-accounts or the money found its

way to Winsome or to Vintage. 33. In the absence of any clarity on this aspect, we are of the

view that linking the second leg of transaction with Arun Panchariya

is vague and connection has not been fully justified. 34. Further, we find that the show cause notice contained 29

annexures. Annexure 29 related to connection of the appellant with

the connected entities. A copy of annexure 29 has been filed by the

respondent. Annexure 29 indicates the connection of the appellant

with various entities. For example, at serial no. 3, connection of

appellant has been shown with IFCF and the relevant document is

annexure 31. Similarly, connection with Euram Bank Austria is

shown at serial no. 4 and supporting document is annexure 32.

Similarly, connection with HSEMF is at serial no. 8 and the

supporting document is annexure 37. Connection with Golden Cliff

is at serial no. 9 and the supporting document is annexure 37. The

connection with Aspire is at serial no. 10 and the supporting

document is at annexure 38. These annexures 32 to 38 are not part of

the show cause notice. But the connection as depicted in annexure

29 is being relied upon by the AO without considering the supporting

documents and without supplying the supporting documents to the

appellant. Thus, in our view, the connection of the appellant with the 26 entities in the second leg of the transaction has not been proved and

the findings are in violation of the principles of the natural justice,

since relevant documents have not been supplied. 35. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that the finding

of the AO with regard to the violation committed by the appellant in

the first leg of the transaction does not suffer from any error of law

and the same is affirmed by us for the reasons stated in the earlier

part of our order. The connection of the appellant with the entities in

the second leg of the transaction is not proved and the relevant

documents have not been considered nor supplied to the appellant

and, therefore, to that extent the impugned order cannot be sustained. 36. On account of the aforesaid, the imposition of penalty to the

extent of Rs. 25 crore also cannot be sustained. We are also of the

view that in view of the fact that the GDR proceeds eventually came

back to the company, the finding that the Vintage acquired certain

GDR free of cost cannot be sustained and, therefore, the question of

quantum of penalty is required to be reconsidered. 37. In view of the aforesaid, the appeal is partly allowed. The

impugned order in so far as it relates to the first leg of the transaction 27 is affirmed. The impugned order relating to the second leg of the

transaction is set aside. The matter is remitted to the AO to redecide

the matter in the light of the observations made above after giving

due opportunity of hearing and after supplying the necessary

documents contained in annexure 29 to the show cause notice. 38. In the circumstances of the case, parties shall bear their own

costs. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member
29.11.2023 MADHUKAR Digitally signed by
 MADHUKAR
PTM SHAMRAO SHAMRAO BHALBAR
 Date: 2023.11.29
 BHALBAR 16:04:40 +05'30'