Dear Sir, This complaint is about purchase of two holiday packages ref booking ID, [protected] & [protected] dt[protected] to get the free gifts of Dell Laptop & Blackberry Mobile phone(Model No. 9810). A call was received on[protected] from Miss Neeha who introduced herself as a sales manager from bagittoday & she is belongs to Odisha (Berhampur Town). She also talked with me in my local Language i.e. in Odiya. She informed me that since I have bought few items in the past from bagitoday, I won a dell laptop and a blackberry phone and what I have to do it just pay Rs.13998 for which I will also get two holiday vouchers each of Rs. 6999 for 4 days & 5 nights which I can use it anytime in a year. She guided me to log the details of my name, address, etc in a page in their website. Since the payment option is only for Rs. 6999/- She asked me to do twice as this is the process. As I am convinced, I did as per her instructions. She instructed me to confirm when a confirmatory call is received and not to mention about the free gift as this is from a marketing department and within 7 days, the free gifts will be delivered. I confirmed the confirmatory call as all the questions/Information is just about the holiday package. Since I have not received the free gifts, I tried calling her several times and still she promised to deliver. After about a month, no response from her nor received the gift nor she picked the calls. I sent several emails to [protected]@bagittoday.Com but they neither committed about the staff Miss. Neha & her telephone number nor agreed to either refund the money or send the gifts. Inspite of several emails, I have not got any positive response. just two questions you must answer? 1. Is the person called me is from india today group? 2. Is the offer given by the person is wrong? I agree with the verification call that I have not raised any concerns during the verification call so no need to raise it before I take a decision, I want specific answers to the following questions 1. Where is the response to my basic query of the authenticity of the call received from your representative from mobile no +91-[protected]   informing me that I have won the bumper prize of laptop and mobile phone? 2. Do you disown the call received and do you agree that was a fake call and I am lying? 2. Do you disown the mobile number and the representative Ms. Neha is not from bagit today? 3. Have you recorded the conversation he had with me on 26th December 2012? 4. Can I have access to the recorded conversation? 5. Did you verify the calls he made to my mobile on those dates? since I have not received any direct/Specific responses to the queries that I have raised and your response was generic and mentions only about the verification call of the product, I would definitely want your answer for these calls. Unnecessarly I have purchased 2 Holiday Package. Now when I want to accompany another family along with me thay are simply denied.Is it fair enough?