Meta has filed a lawsuit against ”nudify” app CrushAI’s parent, Joy Timeline HK Limited, for flooding its websites with fake non-consensual nude or sexually explicit images. The tech giant claims that the Hong Kong-based company circumvented its ad review process and continued placing such ads, despite their removal.

For context , Meta lists out circumvention tactics as those attempting to disguise the ad’s content or destination. In that regard, it prohibits ads from the following behaviour:

Meta’s actions follow an investigation by CBS News disclosing dozens of sexually explicit deepfakes advertisements on Instagram and Facebook. The URL links of some ads also redirected users to websites animating real people’s images and performing sexual acts, the CBS found. These ads for “nudify” deepfake tools persisted despite Meta’s removal of those initially reported. This corresponded with a previous probe by Indicator, which found over 8,100 such ads run by CrushAI on Meta’s platforms in January 2025. Researcher Alexios Mantzarlis also noted that such deepfake generators remain available on both the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store as well.

Notably, this isn’t the first time Meta’s enforcement action has been questioned. In May 2024, an experiment by two civil society organisations in India disclosed that the tech company permitted hateful political ads on its platforms, despite them violating its community guidelines. The report also revealed that Meta’s automated ad review system was easy to bypass and circumvent.

Furthermore, an investigation by Forbes in April 2024 revealed the presence of over 100 videos promoting AI deepfake porn on YouTube. Elsewhere, platforms like Reddit and X also saw a surge in marketing campaigns of AI “undress” or nudify applications in December 2023.

Meta stated several efforts to tackle such issues in advertisements. The company claimed to develop new matching technology to detect and remove ‘copycat ads’ regardless of whether or not they include nudity. Additionally, Meta extended the application of tactics used to disrupt networks of “coordinated inauthentic activity” to identify and eliminate networks of accounts operating such ads. Accordingly, it has disrupted four such separate networks of accounts since January 2025. The company also expanded the list of safety-related terms, phrases, and emojis to detect such ads.

Further, Meta reaffirmed its support for legislation combating AI-generated image abuse across the internet. In that regard, it referenced the recently passed “Tools to Address Known Exploitation by Immobilizing Technological Deepfakes on Websites and Networks Act”, or the Take It Down Act in the US. The regulation directs platforms to remove non-consensual intimate imagery within 48 hours of intimation of its existence. The Act also penalises such depictions and stipulates a fine and prison sentence of up to three years for such offences. Notably, the Act exempts platforms from liability while removing or blocking access to content comprising such images, provided they acted in good faith.

For context , the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC) announced the Take It Down tool in 2023, prompting platforms like Meta, Pornhub, Mindgeek, OnlyFans, and Yubo to adopt it.

In a different vein, Meta reiterated their previous stance for age verification at the app store level and parental approval for app downloads in their blog post.

Amid its clampdown on such advertisements, Meta’s total ad revenue stood at $41.4 billion in the first quarter of the 2025 fiscal year. The company also concluded that ad revenue is its biggest revenue stream, with the metric strongest in North America and the rest of the world at 18% and 19% respectively.

Besides this, in the earnings call for Q4 2024, Meta executives denied any impact of loosening content moderation on ad spending. Instead, Meta’s Chief Financial Officer Susan Li contended that the company saw strong advertiser demand propelled by AI-based advertising tools. For context, Meta eased restrictions on political speech and controversial topics like immigration and gender, in addition to shifting away from third-party fact-checking in January 2025.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event