% 02.09.2025 1. The applicant is before this Court seeking regular bail as an
 undertrial, having remained under incarceration since 07.01.2025, i.e.
 approximately 8 months, in a criminal case arising out of FIR No.478/2024
 dated 16.10.2024 for the alleged offences under Sections 61(2) [conspiracy],
 318(4) [Cheating], 319(2) [Cheating by personation] of BNS, registered at
 Police Station Special Cell. 2. Briefly speaking, per FIR, the case set up by the complainants, Mr.
 Ankush Chadha and Mrs. Manila Chadha, is that they were cheated in an
 online fraud of approximately Rs.1.18 crore. They were introduced to a
 WhatsApp trading group named "Dhruva Trading Talkgroup-001" by co-
 accused (Prabhat Kumar), assisted by another co-accused (Ms. Laxmi
 Surendra). Through this group, the complainants were persuaded to trade on BAIL APPLN. 2039/2025 Page 1 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/09/2025 at 22:42:40
 an online platform called "Total Securities (IFSC)" from 26.08.2024 to
 07.10.2024. 2.1 The accused persons, including a so-called "Total Securities
 manager" and other group members, assured them of high returns through
 investments in upper-circuit stocks, IPOs, and insider trades. To build
 confidence, small withdrawals of Rs.3,000-Rs.5,000 were initially
 permitted. 2.2 However, when the complainants attempted to withdraw larger
 amounts, excuses were made, and they were pressurized to deposit further
 sums under the threat that their accounts would be blocked by SEBI. In total,
 Rs.1,18,38,044/- was transferred from their Axis and HDFC accounts into
 multiple accounts provided by the fraudsters. 2.3 Thereafter, the complainants were informed that a 9% "tax" had to be
 paid for withdrawal of funds, and their money was withheld. Consequently,
 upon receiving their complaint, the Cyber Crime Unit, Special Cell,
 registered Complaint No. C-293/24 dated 08.10.2024, thereafter, FIR was
 registered. 2.4 Upon investigation, the police officials apprehended the applicant on
 the basis of the interrogation of the bank officials. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant would argue on lines of grounds
 pleaded in the petition inter alia urging as below:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/09/2025 at 22:42:40
 certain online platforms and communication channels, specifically the
 WhatsApp groups as well as the Total Securities (IFSC) Platform.
 3.3 He would further argue that the main allegations of cheating, forgery,
 criminal conspiracy, and preparation of forged documents were directed
 against the named individuals and platforms viz "Dhruva Trading Talk
 Group" and "A4 UCIP Compound Interest Alliance". 3.4 The applicant was not associated with any of aforesaid groups or
 platforms, which clearly shows that the complainants did not even know the
 applicant at the time of filing of FIR. 3.5 That the FIR was filed after a delay of 9 days from the commission of
 the alleged offence, i.e., on 16.10.2024, with no explanation for the delay
 and such unexplained delay creates a strong possibility of deliberation and
 fabrication. 3.6 That the applicant has been in judicial custody since 07.01.2025 and
 has already undergone incarceration for approximately 8 months and the
 chargesheet in the present case was filed on 24.02.2025. No further
 investigation is required, hence no further custodial interrogation of the
 applicant is neither required nor contemplated. 3.7 He would urge that continued incarceration of the applicant serves no
 justifiable purpose and would amount to punitive detention rather than
 preventive detention. He would contend that it is settled law that once
 investigation is complete and the accused is not required for custodial
 interrogation, the liberty of an individual should not be curtailed
 unnecessarily. 3.8 He would also argue on merits of the charge-sheet and urge that a
 bare perusal thereof reveals that a total of Rs. 1,18,38,044/- was deposited BAIL APPLN. 2039/2025 Page 3 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/09/2025 at 22:42:40
 by the complainants into 19 different accounts, including an account at
 Punjab & Sind Bank allegedly linked to the applicant, which received Rs. 27
 lakhs. He would argue that it is significant that none of the other said
 recipients of the funds have been investigated. He would contend that the
 Punjab & Sind Bank account in question was fraudulently opened by one
 Ishan Sharma by misusing the applicant's identity.
 3.9 Learned counsel for applicant further argues that in his disclosure
 statement, the applicant categorically stated that he had given his ID proof to
 Ishan Sharma for securing a loan, and the same was misused to open an
 account in the name of S.K. Enterprises, with proprietor shown as Sarju
 Paswan. Only the photograph and address of the applicant were
 incorporated, while the account was operated and funds withdrawn (Rs. 13
 lakhs in cash and Rs. 16 lakhs via RTGS) at the behest of Ishan Sharma and
 his associates. The applicant even provided Ishan Sharma's ID proof and
 contact details to the investigating authorities.
 3.10 That the specimen signature of the applicant does not match the
 signature associated with the fraudulent bank account, and except for the
 misused photograph, the other personal details including address, contact
 information, and identification numbers do not pertain to the applicant. He
 would argue that this establishes that the applicant has been a victim of
 impersonation and misuse of identity. The actual perpetrators, namely Mr.
 Prabhat Kumar, Ms. Laxmi Surendra, Ishan Sharma, and officials of Punjab
 & Sind Bank, have not been thoroughly investigated, whereas the applicant
 alone has been singled out and named in the chargesheet.
 3.11 That the trial court was wrongly prejudiced by the existence of two
 Aadhaar cards with different addresses. He would argue that the applicant BAIL APPLN. 2039/2025 Page 4 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/09/2025 at 22:42:40
 earlier resided with his parents in a slum. Later on, he shifted to a rented
 house and updated his address accordingly. In both the Aadhaar cards, the
 Aadhaar number, being unique, has remained the same. The Aadhaar card
 used in the fraudulent Punjab & Sind Bank account, however, bore a
 completely different Aadhaar number, further establishing that the
 applicant's identity was misused. 3.12 That the applicant is a law-abiding citizen with no prior criminal
 antecedents. 4. Opposing the bail plea, learned APP for the State would contend that
 the applicant is not entitled to any relief at this stage given the role attributed
 to him and his likelihood to evade the pending proceedings. The instant
 application is thus liable to be dismissed. 4.1 Learned APP opposes the bail application, submitting that the case
 involves not only cheating but also forgery, which is punishable with
 imprisonment of up to seven years. She further urges that if released on bail,
 there exists a reasonable apprehension of the applicant tampering with
 evidence. She would also contend that there exists a serious apprehension
 that the accused may abscond and evade the trial and may also indulge in
 similar offences. Accordingly, the bail application deserves to be dismissed. 5. In the aforesaid backdrop, I have heard the rival contentions and
 perused the case file. 6. At the outset, it transpires that the allegations of forgery are not qua
 the applicant and in any case, the same is a subject matter of trial and not for
 this Court to decide. 7. The applicant was not named in the FIR dated 16.10.2024, wherein
 primarily offences are alleged against specifically named individuals and BAIL APPLN. 2039/2025 Page 5 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/09/2025 at 22:42:40
 certain online platforms. His name surfaced only later during investigation,
 allegedly due to misuse of his identity (Aadhaar card) for opening a
 fraudulent bank account. His explanation qua two Aadhar cards has been
 given complete short shrift. His false implication cannot be ruled out.
 Moreover, the complainants did not even know him at the time of filing the
 FIR. 8. The applicant has already remained in custody for approximately 8
 months, and the trial is moving at a snail's pace. This prolonged pre-trial
 detention, coupled with the slow progress of proceedings, are contributory
 factors in favour of granting bail. 9. As regards the apprehension of tampering with evidence, it is
 pertinent to note that the material evidence has already been seized and is
 securely in the custody of the prosecution, rendering such apprehension
 illusory. One of the primary objects of bail is merely to secure the presence
 of the accused during trial. He has no criminal antecedents and hence, not a
 flight risk. 10. The applicant has been in custody since 07.01.2025. There is nothing
 on record to suggest that he would abscond, interfere with evidence, or
 influence witnesses. 11. Applicant is an MBA graduate, formerly employed as the Head of
 Administration at EaseMyTrip, and presently runs an electronics shop,
 Shreejee Communications. The applicant is statedly sole breadwinner of a
 family comprising his 70-year-old mother, wife aged 30 years, and two
 minor children aged 5 and 7 years. Being deeply rooted in society, there is
 no risk of his absconding on that count either. 12. As an upshot and taking wholesome view of the matter, I am of the BAIL APPLN. 2039/2025 Page 6 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/09/2025 at 22:42:40
 considered view that the applicant deserves to be released on bail during the
 pendency of the trial. 13. Accordingly, the applicant is directed to be released on bail on
 furnishing of bail bond and surety to the satisfaction of the learned Trial
 Judge/Duty Judge as the case may be and subject to the usual conditions to
 be imposed by the learned trial Judge/Duty Judge. 14. Nothing observed herein above shall amount to an expression on the
 merits of the case and shall not have a bearing on the trial of the case as the
 same is only for the purpose of the disposing of the present bail application. 15. Accordingly, the bail application alongwith pending application
 stands disposed of. ARUN MONGA, J
 SEPTEMBER 2, 2025
 dy BAIL APPLN. 2039/2025 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/09/2025 at 22:42:40