I get offer future choice club pvt Ltd promotion on whatsups, received phone call from rohit yadav, he told me come at event on 1 August 2022 at Holiday Inn, Sector 90 with my family and send me invitation on whatsups and told that I have won a 3N/4D trip voucher completely free, please come and collect without paid anything, So I gone as per address mention in whatups. I have gone through with "FUTURE CHOICE HOLIDAYS AND HOSPITALITY PRIVATE LIMITED (U63030DL2019PTC358640) registered address is CABIN NO.7, D-3 LGF KALKAJI NEW DELHI South Delhi DL 110019.Doing business as Future Choice Club with office G-14, 2nd Floor, Sector-3, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Noida-201301.. On reaching, me and my family met with sourabha, he told us before giving the vouchers we want to tell you about our company. So they started the presentation. The first thing they told us was that our company is 10 years old. However, if you google and check Future choice has been registered in 11/12/2019. They start showing you the hotels they offer and memories me. Then they tell me that they are offering one time offer valid only for today in which you'll get 3 years of membership. You have to pay onetime payment plus AMC every year in which you’ll get 6N/7Days stay. I If we don’t avail the holidays we can pay the AMC next year whenever we avail the holidays and we only have to pay the AMC after availing the holidays and you can stop the process of the membership if you want during our welcome call and you’ll get the refund. They will not mention that 25% will be deducted. Also, they mentioned you can avail your holidays of next year in advance. We were somehow convinced by them after the presentation and the discount they offered. So we made the payment 45000 rs via UPI and Credit card between 10:18 pm to 10:20 on 01/08/2022, they give me a form to fill details which is same as the agreement but do not have the T&C attached to it. After the payment they said we will make the agreement now for you till the time you have dinner. When we came back they gave us the agreement to sign which was same as the form we filled earlier but also had T&C attached to it (see the photos uploaded).They directly tell me to sign the agreement without even letting us read the T&C. I tried to read the T&Cs, and found one point missing. So the representative Shurabha told me, we can go home and read and whatever is missing we will mail you in written or updated at time of verification. Actually we have doubt because they have not provide any voucher which reason my family invited here because time was 11 PM this was too late and we have 3 year child, so we have not too much attention on this. After reaching home we read the T&C and realized that we have been cheated. The company is not even to much old and T&C are not even matching with what was communicated with us, It was written that we have to pay the AMC 180 days in advance and that to every year. We were offered silver membership and told that you need to make booking of tour trip 7 days in advance. However, in T&C it was written silver members have to make booking 15 days in advance. In the refund section it was mentioned that 25% will be deducted. But after reading all this we right away mailed the company for cancellation within 24 hours. We were not even registered till that time and verification was pending. After I received called from megha for verification then inform her I am already mail you cancel membership and refund amount, so she told me contact with sourabha because sales person have right to cancel your membership because my verification is pending, I called sourabha and asked him for cancellation then told need to discuss with his manager after inform me but I was not received any call from his end. after that I was called again mehaga, she told me, I will have to visit noida office and you will get your resolution there only but I told her, I am cleared, I was informed you within 24 hrs to cancel membership and return refund why need to visit your Noida office, this is very far away from my location, I have done multiple times mail communication but I did get any response. Please help me get my money back since this is purely a fraud that has happened to me.