SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scammed by MMT Outstation Cab | Thing to note before you book
DATE: 2021-12-13
SCORE: 56
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/rfftpv/scammed_by_mmt_outstation_cab_thing_to_note/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone, 

I have been a silent lurker here and I thought I would share my horrible experience that would help the nice folks before they get scammed by the company that is MMT 

&amp;#x200B;

TLDR:- Booked Outstation cab, did not provide service. Refused refund even after filing Consumer Forum Case. Do not have the energy to file a full fledged case with a lawyer. 

&amp;#x200B;

So I booked a MMT Outstation Cab with MMT since I had trust in the company. From the get go, I started seeing red flags that I should have paid heed to. 

As soon as I booked the cabs, I started getting calls from cab providers in the outstation city who were trying to undercut MMT prices and asking me to cancel and book with them. How did they know ? Is MMT using vendors who are then leaking the data to other vendors ? 

Given the trust I HAD in the company, I denied their requests (10+ calls from 9- 11PM ) and kept my booking. One of those cab providers told that MMT would not allow local excursion i.e if you have added Airport to Hotel in your cab destination, they would not take you to the tourist spots nearby ( in the same state FYI). Now nor was this mentioned anywhere on their website and TnCs on the booking, prebooking screens and nor was it sent to me after booking during their free cancellation period. 
In addition, isn't this antithetical to what outstation cabs are used for ? Am I booking a 3 day trip to go to the hotel and not roam around. 

After multiple calls to their call center the next morning ( when I was supposed to board the flight) , I was told that yes, that is correct. When I asked for refund stating their TnCs , they said they will come back to me but they never did. Given that they had not cancelled by the time I had boarded, I thought that maybe I will just pay the driver a little extra and continue with them. 

Lo and behold, there is no cab waiting for me at the airport. Nor do I see any driver details information on their app, their call centre and on whatsapp. Calls to Customer care go unanswered, so I book a cab on the spot ( one of those older vendors who kept calling me ) and thought I will deal with them later. 

During my trip, I kept calling them and was finally assured by one lady that I will be given a refund. I came back from the trip, kept waiting for the refund but got nothing. Then one fine day, they send me the INVOICE for my successful trip. I dropped a mail to their CEO, their business execs and customer support with the details to the T, but all I got back in return was that excursion was outside of their TnCs( Hello, that is a different point, I did not get the service, where is my refund for failing to serve your customer in the first place) 

Tired by all this, I finally filed a case in the consumer forum , again gave them the details to the T, hoping that finally I will get some resolution. Alas, I was disappointed once again. They closed the case by stating the same bullshit response in the consumer forum. The next step is to go to a hearing for which I would need a lawyer's help and all of this I feel is not worth my time given the amount of money I am fighting for. 

I used to be a loyal customer having spent lakhs of Rs in the last 4-5 years but if this is how they treat their loyal customer, I would now not touch them with a ten foot pole. 

Thank you for coming to my TED talk.