The petitioner-accused No.3 is before this Court seeking

grant of anticipatory bail in Crime No.240/2024 of Yelahanka

Police Station, pending on the file of the learned VII Additional

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru, registered for the

offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 468 , 471 R/w Section 34 of Indian Penal Code (for short ' IPC '), on the basis

of the first information lodged by the informant Sudha

Thimmaraju. 2. Heard Sri. Anjan Kumar.B.N., learned counsel for

the petitioner and Smt. K.P.Yashodha, learned High Court

Government Pleader for the respondent-State. Perused the

materials on record. 3. In view of the rival contentions urged by the

learned counsel for both the parties, the point that would arise

for my consideration is: NC: 2024:KHC:26437 CRL.P No. 6388 of 2024 My answer to the above point is in 'negative' for the

following: 4. The petitioner being accused No.3 is seeking grant

of anticipatory bail on the apprehension of being arrested.

Initially, FIR came to be registered against accused Nos.1 and 2

making specific allegations. As per the first information,

accused No.2 concocted the documents and accused No.1

impersonated the complainant and executed the sale deed in

favour of accused No.2, in respect of the property belonging to

the complainant. 5. Accused Nos.1 and 2 were apprehended and their

voluntary statement was recorded, wherein, they have referred

to the name of present petitioner and stated that the petitioner

who is referred to as Sultana is having computer knowledge

and he offered his service to manipulate the Aadhaar Card of

accused No.1 to change it as that of the complainant and by

misusing the said Aadhaar card, the sale deed is said to have

been executed. NC: 2024:KHC:26437 CRL.P No. 6388 of 2024 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that

accused Nos.1, 2 and 4 are already enlarged on bail. All these

accused were apprehended, subjected to interrogation and

thereafter, released on bail. But the petitioner is seeking

anticipatory bail. The nature of allegations made against the

petitioner requires him for interrogation. Therefore, I am of the

opinion that the petitioner is not entitled for grant of

anticipatory bail. 7. Accordingly, I answer the above point in the

negative and proceed to pass the following: