1.	Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and learned Standing Counsel for the State-respondents. 2.	Pursuant to the order dated 07.11.2019, learned Standing Counsel has produced a copy of the instructions dated 16.11.2019 sent by the District Supply Officer, Meerut. Copy of the instruction has also been supplied to the learned counsel for the petitioner. 3.	The present petition has been filed with following relief:- 4. Submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that admittedly, pursuant to the direction of the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court issued vide judgment and order dated 05.12.2018 passed in Public Interest Litigation (PIL) No.4839 of 2018, The Sahkari Sasta Galla Vikreta Union, Tehsil Sardhana, Meerut Vs. State of U.P. & 4 Others Senior Superintendent of Police (STF), Lucknow has been directed to complete the enquiry as far as possible within a period of six months in regard to misuse of Aadhaar authentication of E-POS. Submission is that till date the enquiry has not been completed, but the advertisement has been issued for allotment of shops involved in the enquiry. Submission is that unless the enquiry is concluded, there is no justification in making a fresh allotment and the petitioner is entitled for continuation for his shop. 5.	Per contra, learned Standing Counsel submits that the enquiry is pending and longer time is being taken because the Aadhaar Card data is required for examination of the allegations. He further pointed out that it had been a large scale scam wide spread throughout the State and as many as 44 districts are involved in the same. Learned Standing Counsel further stated at the bar that in some of the districts the dealers have also deposited the amount. He further pointed out that as per information supplied dealers named in the scam in the district of Prayagraj, have already deposited amount that was being sought to be recovered from them. 6. I have considered the submission and perused the record. In so far as the present petition is concerned, the only prayer is that no fresh notification be made in regard to the shop of the petitioner, pursuant to the notification published in daily newspaper dated 16.10.2019 till submission of final report of Senior Superintendent of Police (STF), Lucknow, wherein enquiry/investigation is pending. Along with the supplementary affidavit, a copy of the cancellation order dated 05.01.2019 passed by the District Supply Officer, Meerut has been filed. 7.	During the course of arguments learned counsel for the petitioner further stated that an appeal before the Commissioner being Appeal No.694 of 2019 is pending against the aforesaid cancellation order. The cancellation order is admittedly, not under challenge before this Court. 8.	Confining to the relief claimed in the present petition, a reference may be made to the judgment of Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in the case of Vinod Kumar Vs. State of U.P. and Others , 2014(8) ADJ (DB)(LB), para-12 whereof is quoted as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 9.	A reference may be made to the judgment of the Hon'ble Division Bench in the case of Nasir Ali Vs. State of U.P. and Others , 2015(4) ADJ 214 (DB), para 4 whereof is quoted as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 10.	A reference may be made to the judgment in the case of Vinod Kumar Gupta Vs. State of U.P. and Others , 2014(9) ADJ 761, para 7 whereof is quoted as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 11.	A reference may also be made to Smt. Kalawati Vs. State of U.P. and Others , 2011(10) ADJ 829, para-5 where of is quoted as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 12. It is the settled law that a subsequent allottee has not right to challenge the restoration of license as held in Poonam Vs. State of U.P. & Others , 2016(2) SCC 779, para 49 whereof is quoted as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 13.	The above quoted judgments of this Court clearly holds that the State authorities have a right to make alternative arrangements and that the new allotment is always subject to the decision of the appeal of the existing dealer whose license was cancelled. It is a settled law that in case the appeal is allowed, the subsequent allottee has no right to challenge the same. Therefore, there can be no restriction on the State Government to allot the fair price shop during pendency of the appeal. A reference may also be made to the paragraph-9 of the U.P. Essential Commodities Distribution Control Order 2016, which is quoted as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 14.	Thus, Proviso to paragraph-9 clearly provides that in case of cancellation of the fair price shop, new arrangement shall be issued within a month of cancellation. 15.	It is needless to say that obviously the aforesaid provision has been made so that the ration card holders may not suffer on account of cancellation or suspension of fair price shop. The picture as emerges from the above noted discussion is that the State Government is empowered to make alternative arrangement either by way of attaching the card holders of another shop or by way of making fresh allotment. However, if it is by fresh allotment, in case the appeal filed by original allottee is allowed, subsequent allottee shall have no right whatsoever to challenge the same, i.e., it shall not be open to him to challenge the restoration of license in favour of the original license holder. 16.	That apart, in this case in P.I.L. No. 4839 of 2018 vide order dated 05.12.2018, the Hon'ble Division Bench has directed for enquiry within a period of six months, which is being conducted by the Senior Superintendent of Police (STF), Lucknow. Aforesaid order dated 05.12.2018 is quoted as under:- 17.	This Court was further informed that when the enquiry was not completed pursuant to the above quoted order, a P.I.L. No.1404 of 2019, Naresh Kumar Agarwal Vs. State of U.P. & Others was filed, wherein order dated 18.10.2019 was passed, which is quoted as under:- 18.	 For the discussion made hereinabove, I do not find any merit in the claim of the petition. Moreover, in view of the facts as highlighted by learned Standing Counsel that the E-POS machine scam is State wide and is spread over in as many as 44 districts of the State and is being investigated by the I.G., Cyber Crime, I am not further inclined to exercise powers of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 19.	At this stage, learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that interim protection was granted to the petitioner in vide order dated 16.11.2019 passed in Writ C No.37214 of 2019, M/s Sarfaraj Vs. State of U.P. and 2 Others by pointing out that till next date of listing no further allotment shall be done by the competent authority. 20.	In the facts and circumstances of the case as discussed above, I am not inclined to follow the aforesaid interim order particularly in view of the law settled by the Full Bench as well as Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court by which rights were finally decided. Moreover, this petition itself is being decided finally after full length hearing. 21.	The petition is devoid of merit and is, accordingly, dismissed. Order Date:- 19.11.2019
 
Saif