This is first bail application filed under Section 439 of
Cr.P.C. on behalf of applicant, who is in jail since 08.10.2021 in
connection with Crime No.01/2021, registered at Police Station 2 S.T.F. District Bhopal (M.P.) for the offence punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of IPC. As per prosecution story, one Vivek Mishra lodged a
complaint that applicant had cheated the victim for sum of Rs.36
Lacs for securing admission of one Prateek Mishra in Medical
College. Learned Sr. Counsel appearing for applicant submitted that
applicant is innocent and has falsely been implicated in the case.
There is no specific seizure from the applicant and one of the co-
accused namely Deepak Kumar has already been enlarged on
bail by this Court in M.Cr.C.No.1093/2022 on 28.01.2022. It is
submitted that applicant had neither been named in FIR, nor is
there any specific statement of complainant, wherein specific
name and mobile number has been mentioned along with
detailed transactions taking place between applicant and
complainant. Applicant is not the main accused in the case and
has falsely been implicated. Items, which have been seized from
the applicant has any nexus with crime has not been showed by
investigating agency. Applicant is said to have done meager
transaction of Rs.4 Lacs only and some amount has already been
transferred in account of Mr. Kuldeep Tiwari. It is submitted that
applicant is ready to deposit Rs.1,50,000/-. In these
circumstances, prayer is made that the applicant may be released
on bail. Govt. Advocate appearing for State opposed the prayer for
grant of bail. It is submitted that applicant along with other
accused persons were committing an organized crime and
systematically defrauding young men by promising them 3 admission in medical college. Applicant is also required in other
criminal cases. Applicant is resident of Bihar and is involved in
organized white collar crime and he, if released on bail, may
influence witnesses and other evidences in the case. Applicant
may escape and securing his presence in Court on the basis of
bail bonds will be difficult task. In these circumstances,
applicant may not be released on bail and therefore, this bail
application may be dismissed. Heard learned counsel for parties. Considering facts and circumstances of the case, it is found
that number of innocent students were cheated by applicant and
other accused persons. Investigation in the case in respect of
other victims of crime is going on. As per records available with
investigating agencies, amount of cheating and fraud may extend
to crores of rupees. In one case i.e. in Crime No.08/2022,
applicant along with other accused persons had cheated and
defrauded the complainant for sum of Rs.27 Lacs and in other
Crime No.01/2021, applicant had cheated and defrauded the
complainant for sum of Rs.36 Lacs. There is evidence available
on record that applicant had received amount in his account in
other crime numbers. In Crime No.08/2022, applicant
impersonated himself as K.K.Gauda and had met the victims and
assured them for admission in college. Complainant recognized
the applicant and they met him in KIMS College at Banglore and
he misrepresented himself to be Manager. There are many
persons, who were victims of applicant's crime which include
Kuldeep Tiwari Kunwar Singh, Dr. Ashok Kumar, Vivek Mishra
and Dr. Rakesh Meshram. Considering the totality of facts and circumstances of the
case, particularly the involvement of applicant with other co-
accused persons in organized/syndicate crime for cheating and
defrauding young persons and their family members of their
valuable money and proposal of deposit of Rs.1.5 Lacs will not
absolve the applicant of the crime. Rs.1.5 Lacs is only tip of an
iceberg. Number of accused persons namely, Sandeep
Karwariya, Devraj Mishra, Ajeet Chouhan, Patil, Rakesh Verma,
Deepak Kumar Singh are said to be involved in the crime by
misrepresenting victims to get them admitted in Gandhi Medical
College and Lokmanya Tilak Medical College. Looking to the
number of victims, sum by which victims have been defrauded, I
do not find it a fit case to grant bail to the application. Bail application is dismissed. Ad-interim bail granted to the applicant is cancelled and
personal bond, one surety and one security furnished by
applicant before trial Court are also cancelled. Concerned Police
Station is directed to take applicant in custody. (VISHAL DHAGAT)
 JUDGE
nd
NEETI TIWARI
2022.08.22 14:05:36
+05'30'