SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need Help to Get Me Back Home
DATE: 2023-07-19
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/153yeux/need_help_to_get_me_back_home/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi there, 
My name is Prateek and I'm a 19 year-old student currently studying in class 12th. Due to financial crisis, I wasn't able to pursue my education but fortunately, I got my admission in NIOS (National Institute of Open Schooling)

I need your help to get out of the problem I'm facing at the moment.
I hope all of you generous people read through the following paragraph carefully. I'll try to elaborate precisely.

First and foremost is the due rent of 8 months and it is 55k (7k each month) + July month as well. All of it is 63k INR. Currently, we are staying at my Nani's residence but relatives are not happy with me staying over for too long. We had to spend almost 3 months trying to stay at friends, relative's residence but since then we got no response. My father's side has no one and my mother's side are facing financial problems of their own. I got no place to hide. My mother spent her savings in my father's treatment and his death in February 2023 caused a massive hit to our economy. He was the sole earner of the family and due to his accident in 2018, his health deteriorated drastically. Unfortunately, we couldn't save him. After father's demise, my maa was numb and shocked. She couldn't heal from the pain properly and it is affecting her health each day. Her knee problem is getting worse and since 2 months, she cannot sleep well. She took credit from her family and friends for my father's checkup and to sustain our life while he was in ICU. Now, none of our contacts are willing to help which is understandable. I'll try to give an explanation to their past and the reason why we are in shackles.

My maa and father worked together in partnership in their own firm. They got orders from the government to complete projects in rural regions of UP. (Uttar Pradesh) 
For example, construction of Panchayat offices and vice versa. They completed assigned projects in the given time with absolutely no illegal ways. Instead, they had to spend their own savings in order to complete the supposed projects. Government didn't help in any of it. Later when we tried to sanction our paychecks, the department was booked for scam because of its higher ranks/elites. We had no play in it, we just waited and waited. We were supposed to be payed more than 50 lakhs for the project we did with absolutely no problem or corruption. But, we were betrayed and dragged by the office lobby to another lobby for 5 years. 
This project happened in 2013-2017 and we have all the necessary documents needed to plea for reevaluation. Now we need 25k for a few documentation process including financial advisor fees. We tried to save but eventually, all of it went down the drain into my financial crisis and father's treatment in 2018.

Only we know how we are surviving even after doing so much and getting nothing in return.
My maa has no asset, no jewellery, no gold and no property as everything went into paying off debt and finishing off the project sincerely. 

I worked as a Live Streamer at a startup in Lucknow but it only lasted for 4 months. Those savings, went into medical treatment of father as well as completing documentation for paycheck plea. Since then, I haven't been able to grasp a good job to suffice my necessities. Currently, I'm doing scriptwriting for a science youtube channel but the paycheck is not enough. It's good enough to cover travel charges for offices and courts but not more than that.

I would request anyone to help me out in my dire situation and at least let my maa know that things are going to be alright.
I sacrified 2 years of my life to take care of my father and it cost me so much. Only for a mere 63k, I can't do anything any further except survive somehow with a few scraps I have left. I know asking for donations online is a lot awkward and embarrassing for me and the user who comes across this post. I have only this one last chance left and I need to get out of it as soon as possible. I hope you all understand.

here is my payment details if anyone wants to donate. 
Stripe Payment Link: https://donate.stripe.com/4gwbK1cSm9xS7KM000

UPI: prateeksapien9@oksbi
PhonePe: prateek-asha@ibl

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/sapienprateek99/goal?g=1

All of these are my mother's account as I do not have my own bank account. I really really hope that we can reach the goal soon.

- Prateek