(PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH)

[1.0] By way of this petition under Article 226/227 of the Constitution 
of  India,  petitioner   has  prayed  for   an   appropriate   writ,  direction  and 
order quashing and setting aside the impugned order No.270/2011­CX Page 1 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

dated 23.03.2011 passed by the Joint Secretary - Government of India 
by   which   the   Revisional   Authority   confirmed   the   Order   in   Original 
passed by the Commissioner of Central Excise and Customs (Appeals), 
Surat­1 disallowing the rebate claim of Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­ 
claimed  by   the   petitioner  on  the  goods   exported  by   the   petitioner   as 
merchant   exporter   for   which   according   to   the   petitioner,   petitioner 
applied with all necessary requirements as required under Rule 18 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as "Rules, 2002"). [2.0] Facts leading to the present Special Civil Application in nut­shell 
are as under: In   response   to   the   said   show­cause   notices,   the   petitioner 
submitted   the  reply  dated  14.06.2006  by  submitting  that   as  such the 
goods have been physically exported out of India and that the petitioner 
has   paid  the   amount   of   duty  and   proper  documents   for  claiming  the Page 3 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

rebate   claims   are   also   filed.   It   was   submitted   that   therefore   the 
petitioner   is  entitled  to the   rebate  of duty  on  the  goods actually and 
physically exported. [2.3] That the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise and Customs, 
Surat   adjudicated  the   said   show­cause   notice   and   passed   the   OIO  on 
28.03.2007   rejecting   the   rebate   claim   submitted   by   the   petitioner   by 
observing that there were only paper transactions between  M/s. Raju 
Synthetics  Pvt. Ltd. and the  petitioner  and the  same was only billing 
activities for getting the benefit of CENVAT Credits as well as the rebate. [2.4] That feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the Order in Original 
passed by the Assistant Commissioner, Central Excise, Surat rejecting the 
rebate claim of Rs.Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­ filed by the petitioner 
under Rule 18 of the Rules, 2002 in respect of the ARE­1, the petitioner 
preferred appeal before the Commissioner (Appeals) and vide Order in 
Appeal   dated   18.03.2009,   the   Commissioner   (Appeals)   dismissed   the 
said appeal. [2.5] Feeling aggrieved  and dissatisfied  with  the  order passed by the 
learned Commissioner (Appeals) in rejecting the appeal and confirming 
the OIA rejecting the rebate claim of Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­ filed 
by the claimant, the petitioner preferred Revision Application before the 
Central   Government   and   the   Revisional   Authority   -   Joint   Secretary, 
Government   of   India   had   dismissed   the   said   revision   application 
confirming the orders passed by both the authorities below rejecting the 
claims of the petitioner of Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­. [2.6] Feeling   aggrieved   and   dissatisfied   with   the   impugned   orders 
passed   by   the   Revisional   Authority,   Commissioner   (Appeals)   and   the 
OIO rejecting the claim of Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­ submitted by 
the   petitioner,   the   petitioner   has   preferred   the   present   Special   Civil Page 4 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

Application under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India. [3.0] Shri   Paresh  Dave,  learned   advocate   appearing   on   behalf   of   the 
petitioner has vehemently submitted that all the authorities below have 
materially   erred   in   rejecting   the   rebate   claim   of   the   petitioner   of 
Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­ filed by the petitioner in respect of the 
ARE­1s. It is submitted that as such the petitioner had complied with all 
the requirements under the law more particularly under Rule 18 of the 
Rules,   2002   with   respect   to   its   rebate   claims   of   Rs.3,51,469/­   + 
Rs.1,98,432/­. It is submitted that as the petitioner filed the necessary 
documents along with  the  respective  ARE­1s with  full  particulars and 
complied with all the requirements which were required to be complied 
with under Rule 18 of the Rules, 2002, the authorities below have erred 
in rejecting the rebate claims of the petitioner. [3.1] It is further submitted by Shri Dave, learned advocate appearing 
on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   that   as   such   the   petitioner   did   physically 
exported the goods out of India on payment of duty and infact submitted 
the   proper   documents   for   claiming   rebate   claims   and   when   the 
documents   of   export   have   not   been   doubted   and/or   not  found   to   be 
forged and fake, the petitioner is entitled to the rebate as claimed on the 
goods actually and physically exported out of India and on which the 
duty was paid by the petitioner. [3.2] It is further submitted by Shri Dave, learned advocate appearing 
on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   that   as   such   the   petitioner   purchased   the 
goods/processed   fabrics   from  one  M/s.   Raju  Synthetics  Pvt.   Ltd.   It  is 
submitted that as such the said M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. purchased 
the goods from M/s. Rangroop Texturiser, M/s. Om Textiles and M/s. 
Shree Ganesh Textiles. It is submitted that as such M/s. Raju Synthetics 
Pvt.   Ltd.   from   whom   the   petitioner   purchased   the   processed 
fabrics/goods, which came to be exported by the petitioner was at no Page 5 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

point of time declared as a fake company. It is submitted that therefore 
and in such a situation denial of the rebate claim is not justified, which 
deserves to be quashed and set aside. [3.3] It is further submitted by Shri Dave, learned advocate appearing 
on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   that   as   such   the   petitioner   purchased   the 
inputs/goods from M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. which was not found to 
be   non­existent   and   thereafter   actually   and   physically   exported   the 
goods on payment of duty and therefore, the petitioner shall be entitled 
to the rebate of duty paid on the goods which came to be exported by 
the   petitioner.   It   is   submitted   that   merely   because   the   supplier   from 
whom M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. purchased the raw material / input 
was found to be non­existent and/or indulged into any malpractice, the 
petitioner   who   had   actually   and   physically   exported   the   goods   on 
payment of the duty may not be denied the rebate. It is submitted that in 
the   present   case   as   such   M/s.   Raju   Synthetics   Pvt.   Ltd.   was   never 
declared as fake supplier. It is submitted that therefore the petitioner 
shall   be   entitled   to   the   rebate   as   claimed. In   support   of   his   above 
submissions,   Shri   Dave,   learned   advocate   appearing   on   behalf   of   the 
petitioner has heavily relied upon the decision of the Division Bench of 
this   Court   in   the   case   of Commissioner  of  C.Ex.  &  Customs  v.   D.P. 
Singh reported in 2011(270) E.L.T. 321 (Guj.) 
 Making above submissions and relying upon the above decision it 
is requested to allow the present special civil application and direct the 
respondents to pay / grant the rebate of Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­
with interest thereon under Section 11BB of the Act. [4.0] Present   petition   is   opposed   by   Shri   R.J.   Oza,   learned   Counsel 
appearing   on   behalf   of   the   Department.   It   is   submitted   that   in   the 
present  case   as such there  are  concurrent  findings of  facts  by all   the 
authorities   below   that   infact   there   was   no   physical   movement   of   the 
goods/inputs   and   the   transactions   between   the   petitioner   and   the Page 6 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

supplier  -  M/s. Raju  Synthetics  Pvt. Ltd. were  fake  transactions. It  is 
submitted that there are concurrent findings of fact by all the authorities 
below   that   the   transactions   between   the   petitioner   and   M/s.   Raju 
Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. (Supplier) were only billing activities for the purpose 
of availing CENVAT Credit as well as the rebate. It is submitted that it 
has been found by all the authorities below that M/s. Om Textiles from 
whom M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. is alleged to have purchased the 
goods   was   already   declared   non­existent/fake/bogus   unit   vide 
order/letter   dated   31.03.2005   of   the   Commissioner   of   Central   Excise 
and Customs, Surat­1 and even M/s. Shree Ganesh Textiles from whom 
M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. (Supplier) was alleged to have purchased 
the   goods   on   physical   ground.   It   was   found   that   the   said   unit   is 
bogus/fake   by   way   of   endorsement   on   letter   dated   22.03.2005.   It   is 
submitted that therefore when in the facts and circumstances of the case, 
it has been found that the  transactions between M/s. Raju Synthetics 
Pvt.   Ltd.   (Supplier)   and   the   petitioner   were   sham   being   mere   paper 
transactions  and it  was  only  billing activities,  the  petitioner  is rightly 
denied the rebate claim. [4.1] Now,   so   far   as   the   reliance   placed   upon   the   decision   of   the 
Division Bench of this Court in the case of D.P. Singh (Supra) by the 
learned advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioner in support of his 
submission   that   as   the   petitioner   had   purchased   the   goods/raw 
material   /   inputs   from   M/s.   Raju   Synthetics   Pvt.   Ltd.   and   M/s.   Raju 
Synthetics  Pvt.   Ltd.   was  not  declared  fake  supplier  and   as  M/s.  Raju 
Synthetics   Pvt.   Ltd.   purchased   the   said   goods   from   M/s.   Rangroop 
Texturiser,   M/s.   Om   Textiles   and   M/s.   Shree   Ganesh   Textiles   and 
therefore,   the   petitioner   can   be   said   to   be   bonafide   purchaser   who 
actually   and   physically   exported   the   goods   on   payment   of   duty   is 
concerned, it is submitted  that  as such the  said decision shall  not be 
applicable to the facts of the case on hand. It is submitted that in the 
present   case   even   there   are   concurrent   findings   of   fact   by   all   the Page 7 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

authorities below that infact the transaction between the petitioner and 
M/s.   Raju   Synthetics   Pvt.   Ltd.   (Supplier)   are   found   to   be   fake 
transactions   and   only   billing   activities   for   the   purpose   of   availing 
CENVAT Credit and the rebate. It is submitted that therefore when even 
the petitioner has failed to satisfy the actual movement of goods from 
M/s.   Raju   Synthetics   Pvt.   Ltd.   to   the   petitioner   and   the   transactions 
between M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. and the petitioner are found to 
be fake, the petitioner is rightly denied the rebate claim. Making above submissions, it is requested to dismiss the present 
special civil application. [5.0] Heard learned advocate appearing on behalf of respective parties 
at length. Considered and perused the impugned orders passed by the 
Original   Adjudicating   Authority,   the   Commissioner   (Appeals)   and   the 
Revisional Authority. At the outset it is required to be noted that petitioner submitted 
the rebate claim of Rs.3,51,469/­ + Rs.1,98,432/­ on the goods exported 
by them under the ARE­1s, the particulars of which are mentioned in the 
show­cause notices at Annexure­A. The same have been denied by all the 
authorities below by observing that as such the transactions between the 
petitioner   and   its   supplier   were   fake   transactions   and   there   was   no 
actual and physical movements of the goods and the petitioner and the 
supplier indulged into the billing activities only for the purpose of taking 
benefit   of   CENVAT   Credit   and   rebate.   Therefore,   as   such   there   are 
concurrent findings of fact by all the authorities below with respect to 
the fake transactions between the petitioner and M/s. Raju Synthetics 
Pvt. Ltd. (supplier). At this stage it is required to be noted and it has 
come   on   record   that   the   petitioner   is   alleged   to   have   purchased   the 
goods from M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. (its supplier) who purchased 
the goods from M/s. Rangroop Texturiser, M/s. Om Textiles and M/s. 
Shree Ganesh Textiles. It has come on record that so far as M/s. Ganesh 
Textiles and M/s. Om Textiles are concerned, two purported suppliers - C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

writer of the invoices, they were already declared as fake and fictitious 
and their names figured in the Alert Circular issued by the Commissioner 
of Central Excise, Surat­1. It is the case on behalf of the petitioner that 
when the petitioner has as such exported the goods, the petitioner shall 
be entitled to the rebate. However, it is required to be noted that unless 
and until it is established and proved by the petitioner that the petitioner 
exported the goods by using the inputs purchased by him on payment of 
duty or excise duty and the petitioner used the said inputs on which the 
duty was paid then and then only the petitioner shall be entitled to the 
rebate. In the present case, as observed hereinabove, it has been found 
and established that the transactions between the M/s. Raju Synthetics 
Pvt.   Ltd.   and   M/s.   Rangroop   Texturiser,   M/s.   Om   Textiles   and   M/s. 
Shree Ganesh Textiles and thereafter between M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. 
Ltd. (supplier) and the  petitioner  were fake transactions, no evidence 
has been produced to establish and prove the actual physical movement 
of the goods from M/s. Om Textiles, M/s. Ganesh Textiles to M/s. Raju 
Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. and thereafter from M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. to 
the   petitioner.   Considering   the   aforesaid   facts   and   circumstances,   the 
adjudicating   authority   denied   the   rebate   claim.   On   appeal,   the 
Commissioner (Appeals) has dismissed the said appeal preferred by the 
petitioner by observing in paras 4.1 to 4.4 as under: Aforesaid   findings   and   the   order   passed   by   the Page 11 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

Commissioner   (Appeals)   has   been   confirmed   by   the   Revisional 
Authority. Under   the   circumstances,   when   the   transactions   between   the 
manufacturer   (processor)   and   the   merchant   exporter   (petitioner)   are 
found to be bogus and when it has been established that the purported 
suppliers   are   fake   and   fictitious   persons   and   the   entire   transaction   is 
found   to   be   only   billing   activities   for   the   purpose   of   taking   undue 
advantage of the CENVAT Credit and/or the rebate, no error has been 
committed   by   the   Authorities   below   in   denying   the   rebate   claims 
claimed by the petitioner. [5.1] Now, so far as the contention on behalf of the petitioner that as 
the petitioner had exported the goods on payment of duty the petitioner 
is entitled to rebate of excise duty is concerned, the  same arguments 
came to be considered by the Division  Bench of this Court in Special 
Civil  Application  No.13931/2011.  At that  stage also, the  petitioner  of 
that petition heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of D.P. Singh (Supra). While not accepting the said submission and while 
denying the rebate claim on actually exported goods, the Division Bench 
of this Court has observed as under: In the present case also, there are concurrent findings of fact given 
by   all   the   authorities   below   with   respect   to   the   fake   transactions Page 12 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

between the petitioner and M/s. Raju Synthetics Pvt. Ltd. , we are of the 
opinion that all the authorities have examined the case in detail and as 
such   no   interference   is   called   for.   The   conclusions   arrived   at   by   the 
authorities   below   are   on   the   basis   of   evidence   on   record   and   such 
conclusions are not pointed out to be perverse. Under the circumstances, 
as such no interference in exercise of powers under Articles 226 & 227 of 
the Constitution of India, therefore, can be made. [5.2] Now,   so   far   as   the   reliance   placed   upon   the   decision   of   the 
Division   Bench   of   this   Court   in   the   case   of D.P.   Singh (Supra)   is 
concerned , the said decision shall not be applicable to the facts of the 
case on hand. It is required to be noted that in the present case even the 
transactions between the petitioner and M/s. Universal Textiles (Supra) 
are found to be fake transactions. Merely because M/s. Raju Synthetics 
Pvt.   Ltd.   was   not   declared   as   fake   company   /   supplier,   it   makes   no 
difference. As such there is a distinction between the fake transaction 
and  the  fake  company.  When  the   transactions  between   the  petitioner 
and the supplier were found to be fake transactions and it was found 
that the petitioner has failed to establish and prove that the petitioner 
used the inputs / goods in manufacturing of even the goods which came 
to be exported on which the actual excise duty or paid, the petitioner 
shall not be entitled to the rebate of the duty, which is not proved to be 
paid. It is required to be noted that in the present case the supplier of 
the   petitioner   -   M/s.   Raju   Synthetics   Pvt.   Ltd.   was   alleged   to   have 
procured/purchased the goods from M/s. Rangroop Texturiser, M/s. Om 
Textiles and M/s. Shree Ganesh Textiles were declared as fake and non­
existent   for   which   their   names   were   put   in   the   alert   circular   by   the 
Commissioner. Under the circumstances, the petitioner shall be entitled 
to the rebate as claimed. Our aforesaid view is supported by the decision 
of the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Multiple Exports Pvt. 
Ltd. v. Union of India reported in 2013 (288) ELT 331 (Guj.). 
[6.0] In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present Page 13 of 14 C/SCA/13932/2011 JUDGMENT

Special Civil Application fails and the same deserves to be dismissed and 
is,   accordingly,   dismissed.   Rule   is   discharged.   In   the   facts   and 
circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs. Sd/­       
 (M.R. SHAH, J.) 

 Sd/­       
 (K.J. THAKER, J.) 

Ajay Page 14 of 14