1. These petitions raise questions of considerable general importance besides bringing into sharp focus the neglect and apathy which plague Private and Government Educational Institutions in the State of Karnataka. The core issue raised and argued at considerable length relates to the validity of the State's decision not to grant any aid to institutions established after the year 1987. That decision has from the year 1998 taken the form of a statutory rule framed under the Education Act of 1983. The rule is sought to be justified on the ground that the State's economic capacity is limited and that it can spare no more than what is annually set apart for distribution among private institutions. For the immediate past year the State had set apart no less than six hundred and sixty six crores towards Grant-in-Aid to Private Educational Institutions. That amount is by no means small even for a State of the size of Karnataka, with thousands of Pre-Primary, Upper Primary and Secondary Schools. What has rendered the amount insufficient is a total lack of an effective mechanism to ensure that aid flows only to those who deserve it. Reports that have been drawn up belatedly on the basis of inspections conducted during the pendency of these proceedings show that at least half of those who have over the years benefited from Government

aid do not strictly speaking qualify for the same. Aid to such institutions is and would always remain a criminal waste of resources which the State claims and may indeed be limited. It is if I may say so largely because of tbe State's failure to stop the abuse of the largesse that institutions which may otherwise be deserving, today stand excluded from that benefit. And it is this failure that has put a question mark on the continuance of the State policy to recognise the contribution and aid the effort which Private institutions have made and may in future make in the nation building process. 2. State support to Private Educational Institutions in Karnataka has been for the past over three decades regulated by executive instructions issued from time to time. The instructions described as Grant-in-Aid Codes for Primary Schools, Secondary Schools and Collegiate Education, exist even for other Institutions like Primary and Secondary Teachers Training Institutes and Colleges. The instructions make it clear that aid cannot be claimed as a matter of right and reserve in favour of the State Government the power to withdraw or reduce the grant at its discretion or to alter, modify or review the relevant rules at any time. 3. The legal enforceability of the instructions has been the subject-matter of judicial pronouncements both at the Apex and High Court level. In State of Assam and Another v Ajit Kumar Sarma and Others , and Kumari Regina v St. Aloysius Higher Elementary School and Another , the Supreme Court declared that the executive instructions issued to regulate the Grant-in-Aid to Private Institutions were not enforceable in law, no matter the instructions were described as rules. Following the said decision a Division Bench of this Court in the case of G.R. Ramaswamy Iyengar v Director of Public Instruction, Mysore and Another, held the instructions contained in the State Codes to be unenforceable, as the same were non-statutory in nature. Shortly thereafter came State of Maharashtra and Others v Lok Shikshan Sanstha and Others , where their Lordships were examining the legal effect of the provisions contained in the Grant-in-Aid Code prevalent in the State of Maharashtra. The Court declared that executive instructions compiled as a Code did not have any constitutional force. 4. Karnataka Education Act, 1983 (in short, 'the Education Act '), came into force only on 1-6-1995 more than a decade after it was enacted. It aims at providing planned development of educational institutions, inculcation of healthy educational practices, maintenance and improvement in the standards of educational and better organisation, discipline and control of such institutions. Chapter IX of Education Act deals with Grant-in-Aid and empowers the State Government to set apart within the limits of its economic capacity a sum of money for being

given as Grant-in-Aid to prevail and local authority institutions recognised for that purpose in accordance with the rules made in that behalf. No rules were till recently framed in terms of Section 49 of the Act. The result was that by reason of Section 146(3) the Grant-in-Aid Codes earlier in force continued to remain effective as if the same had been made under the corresponding provisions of the Act. The Codes may have in the process acquired a statutory flavour but they continued to fall short of creating an enforceable right in favour of the institutions, to claim aid. That is because the amount to be set apart by the State remains dependant upon its economic capacity which in turn depends upon the subjective satisfaction of the Government. 5. By an order dated 8-2-1996 the Government declared that institu tions established after 1-6-1987 shall remain grantless. This order was challenged in W.P. No. 15436 of 1997, inter alia, on the ground that the Government could not by an executive order nullify the provisions contained in Grant-in-Aid Code which were by reason of Section 146(3) of the Education Act, statutory in nature. It was during the pendency of the said writ petition that the State hurriedly framed under Section 49 of the Act, what are called Karnataka Educational Institutions (Grantin-Aid for Primary, Secondary and Pre-University Educational Institutions) Rules, 1998 (in short, 'the 1998 Rules'). They were amended barely two months later by a notification dated 7-11-1998. What is significant about the Rules is that they were framed to achieve a one point objective viz., to render all institutions established after 1-6-1987 permanently grantless. They do not prescribe the procedure for recognising institutions for grant of aid nor the norms to be followed in that regard even when Section 49 of the Act empowers the State to do so. Comprehensive rules providing for all these aspects are according to the respondents being framed and should be published shortly for inviting objections from the public. 6. Rule 3 of above Rules, starts with a non obstante clause and reads thus after its amendment.- The petitioners have in these petitions, assailed the constitutional validity of the above on a variety of grounds. Some of the petitioners established before the cut-off date are aggrieved of the provisions of Rule 16(xiii) of the Grant-in-Aid Code for the Secondary Schools, insofar as the same envisages grant of aid from the date the competent authority

makes an order and not the date from which the institution becomes eligible for the same. 7. Submissions made by learned Counsel for the parties have broadly speaking revolved round the following questions that fall for determination. Reg. Question No. 1: 8. The petitioners have not either in the writ petitions or at the hearing claimed any fundamental right to receive financial aid from the State. The nearest they could take their claim was to the provisions of Articles 45 and 46 of the Constitution which declare free and compulsory education for all children below the age of 14 years and promotion of education and economic interests of weaker sections of the people in particular of SC/STs as constitutional goals. It was contended that since free and compulsory education was one of the directive principles of State Policy, any agency which assisted the State in its endeavour could claim financial assistance in the form of Grant-in-Aid, as a matter of right. 9. Article 37 of the Constitution declares that although the directive principles of State Policy enshrined in Part IV, are fundamental in the governance of the country, yet, the provisions contained in that part shall not be enforceable by any Court. The distinction between a fundamental

right guaranteed by Part III and the directive principles contained in Part IV basically lies in the former being justiciable while the latter are only constitutional objective which the State must endeavour to achieve. All that need be said regarding directive principles is that they are an important and integral part of the Constitution meant to be effective subsidiaries to the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III thereof. While they may not be enforceable through the process of the Court, they cannot be ignored when it comes to making of laws by the Legislature or interpretation of the fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizens. It may even be reasonable to say that the expression 'making of laws' appearing in Article 37 is not limited only to legislations by the Parliament and State Legislatures, but includes interpretation of the laws by the Courts who too must while interpreting the laws do so in the light of the directive principles. The Supreme Court in Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board and Another v Hari Shanker Jain and Others , held that while Courts are not free to direct making of legislations they are bound to evolve, affirm and adopt principles of interpretation which will further and not hinder the goals set out in the directive principles of the State Policy. The Court observed.- Even so, it is difficult to see how the provisions of Articles 45 and 46 can by themselves and independent of any other provision in Part III be interpreted to create a vested enforceable right in the petitioner-Institutions to claim financial aid from the State. Interpreting the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 in the light of the Articles 45 and 46 of the Constitution so as to read the right to 'free education upto 14 years of age' as a part of right to life is different from exalting the constitutional objective of free education to the status of a fundamental right enforceable by the Institutions assisting the State in that endeavour. The fact that the petitioner-Institutions offer education even to those who enjoy a fundamental right to free education upto 14 years of age, is not by itself sufficient for them to claim a fundamental or even a constitutional right to demand financial assistance from the State. The grant or refusal of such assistance is a matter that falls in the realm of State Policy. Should any amount be set apart for distribution as aid to Private Institutions

and if so, how much and for how long are matters of policy that would depend upon a variety of factors such as the economic capacity of the State to grant, such assistance and the infrastructure which the State has provided for free and compulsory Education at Primary, Secondary and College levels. Courts need not enter into the thicket of executive policy and reframe such policies especially at the instance of a person who cannot establish the violation of any fundamental or even a statutory right. 10. In State of Orissa and Another v Aswini Kumar Dash and Others , the Supreme Court was dealing with a situation where teachers in aided non-Government Colleges and educational institutions were claiming revised scales of pay recommended by the U.G.C. The Government decision envisaged grant of higher pay scales only to such institutions as had received Government concurrence and University affiliation by 1-4-1989 and not thereafter. The decision was successfully challenged by the teachers in the High Court. In an appeal the Supreme Court set aside the order passed by the High Court and held that no educational institutions can claim Grant-in-Aid as a matter of right and contrary to the State Policy. The Court observed:-- (emphasis supplied) 11. In the light of the above, Question No. 1, shall have to be answered in the negative. I may however hasten to add that while an institution may have no fundamental right to claim aid from the Government, its right to question discriminatory treatment in offensive to Article 14 cannot be disputed. If two Institutions similarly situate are treated differently without there being any rational differentia between the two, the aggrieved can claim a similar treatment on the strength of the equality clause contained in Article 14. To the same effect is the decision of this Court in Karnataka Liberal Education Society, Belgaum v State of Karnataka and Others , where I had held as under.- Subject to the above, question No. 1, is answered in the negative. Reg. Question No. 2: 12. In Miss Mohini Jain v State of Karnataka and Others , the Supreme Court declared the right of education to be flowing directly from the right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. That view was partially modified by their Lordships in Unni Krishnan, J.P. and Others v State of Andhra Pradesh and Others , where the Court declared that the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 must be construed in the light of the directive principles contained in Part IV of the Constitution. So interpreted, Articles 41 , 45 and 46 declared the Court, were meant to achieve the constitutional goal of making education universal where the people understand what is good for them and the Nation. Right to free education as an essential component of right to life was therefore recognised subject only to the condition that it was available to children below 14 years of age. For those beyond that age the obligation of the State to provide education was held to be subject to the limits of its economic capacity. A reference presently pending before an Eleven Judge Bench of the Supreme Court, has not doubted the correctness of the ratio in Unnikrishnan 's case, supra, to the extent the same holds the right of free education of those below 14 years of age to be a fundamental right. To that extent there can be and was rightly no dispute between the parties. 13. The question however, is whether the right guaranteed to those below 14 years of age can be enforced by the petitioners through the medium of these writ petitions. The right sought to be enforced does not admittedly vest in the petitioners as institutions. It vests in those who are, according to them, entitled to claim such a right, but have not come forward to do so. The locus standi of the petitioners to maintain these petitions for the enforcement of a right not vested in them has thus come under challenge. Apart from the fact that the petitioners cannot, according to respondents, maintain these writ petitions, there is no violation of the right vested in the children to call for intervention by this Court. The State, according to the submissions made at the Bar has

done creditable work in the field of providing universal education as envisaged by Article 45 of the Constitution. There is, according to the State no failure on its part in the discharge of that obligation to warrant interference. Reliance in support is placed upon the orders passed by the Supreme Court and that passed by the Division Bench of this Court in two Public Interest Petitions, in which the petitioners had alleged failure of the State machinery in providing free education to children below 14 years of age. Reliance is also placed upon certain Survey reports and the performance Budget for the year 1999-2000 of the (Education Department) Government of Karnataka, to show that the State had ensured that there was a school within 1 km in every village with a population of 200 and/or children population of 20 in the age group of 6 to 10 and an Upper Primary-School within a distance of 3 kms from every such village. I shall presently deal with that aspect but before I do so it is necessary to deal with question of maintainability of the writ petitions in the context of the locus standi of the petitioners. 14. Existence of a subsisting legal right in the petitioner is, the very foundation of the exercise of jurisdiction by the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. Such rights must subject to three exceptions be vested in the petitioner himself. Those exceptions are: (i) petitions in the nature of habeas corpus, (ii) quo warranto and (iii) petitions filed for the enforcement of a right of a class of persons who cannot by reason of their poverty, disability, social or economic disadvantages, themselves seek redressal by filing a petition. Such petitions which are not in the nature of adverserial litigations are maintainable to ensure that the poor and downtrodden get their due and are relieved from deception or exploitation at the hands of the powerful sections of the society. 15. Subject to the above, the person making a grievance before the Court can establish his locus standi to file and maintain the petition only if the right he seeks to enforce is vested in him. This legal position appears to be much too settled to require the support of any precedent beyond the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Calcutta Gas Company (Proprietary) Limited v State of West Bengal , where the Court has declared the law thus.- 16. The present writ petitions have not been filed in 'Public Interest'. Even if they were it is doubtful whether tbe petitioners could have maintained such petitions having regard to the fact that the interest of the petitioners in the relief sought by them is so closely entwined with the enforcement of the right of the students that any petition filed for enforcement of that right by the institutions would be viewed with suspicion. Any such petitions could well be seen as an attempt to secure relief for the petitioners themselves rather than the students-in whose name and for whose purported benefit the same may ostensibly have been filed. My answer to question No. 2 is therefore in the negative. 17. Let me now examine no matter briefly the claim made by the State that it has fully discharged its constitutional obligation of providing free education to those below 14 years of age. It was feebly argued by Counsel for the petitioners that the existence of Private Institutions and admission of children below 14 years to the same was enough to establish that the State had failed to fully discharge its obligation. I do not think so. The fact that Private Institutions exist to which children below 14 years are admitted is not in itself enough to declare that the State has failed in the discharge of its obligation. Such institutions also have a role to play in the words of Supreme Court in Unni Krishnan 's case, supra, where there Lordships have observed thus.- The above is sufficient to answer the argument that the Court need not go any further to declare a State failure in the discharge of the obligations under Articles 45 and 46 read with Article 21 of the Constitution. 18. In Satyapal Anand v Union of India , relied upon by the respondents the Court was called upon to examine whether the States and Union Territories had taken adequate steps towards implementation of the order made by their Lordships in Unni Krishnan 's case, supra, insofar as the same related to the right of children below 14 years of age to receive education at State expense. The States, including the State of Karnataka appear to have filed status reports on a consideration whereof the Court disposed of the writ petition with the following observations.- 19. A similar writ petition, in the meantime, was filed in this Court alleging failure of the State in providing free and compulsory education to children in Bangalore District. By an order dated 1-3-1999, the said petition was also disposed of taking note of the steps that had been taken and were being taken by the Government in the matter of providing free primary education to those below the age of 14 years. 20. According to the affidavit filed by Secretary to Government, Education Department, 96.58% population in the State have been provided with a primary school within a radius of 1 km from every revenue village having a population of 300. The Affidavit states that 100% population in the State has a school within a radius of 2 kms. It was argued on the basis of the above and the published material placed on record that the constitutional objective of providing free universal education had been fully achieved by providing adequate number of primary, upper primary and secondary institutions within a reasonable distance from every habitation to enable those entitled to avail of the facility of free education to do so. 21. A reading of the 6th All India Education Survey Report, published by the Government of Karnataka, in July 1998, shows that there has been considerable growth in the number of institutions offering education at Primary, Upper Primary and Secondary levels. As against 16,508 Primary, 3,773 Upper Primary and 150 Secondary Schools in the year 1957, there were, according to the said report, 21,956 Primary, 18,283 Upper Primary and 4,980 Secondary Institutions in the State in the year 1993. As per another State Government publication, under the title "Education for All", as against 32,217 Elementary Schools in 1988-69, with a sanctioned teachers strength of 91,244 there were in the year 1998 as many as 47,954 such schools with a teaching staff strength of 2,03,353. The report also refers to the number of posts created, class rooms provided and basic teaching equipment furnished to the Primary Schools, under the Centrally sponsored operation 'Black Board'. In terms of expenditure as against 6.29 crore in 1959-60, the expenditure in the year 1993-94 was to the tune of Rs. 651 crores. Much has therefore been done, but what remains to be done is no less. The Performance Budget of the Education Department for the year 1999-2000, itself recognises the fact that the Government have not been able to fulfil the needs and requirements of the Department. The introduction carries the following acknowledgement of that failure.- 22. That appears to be the position even according to the 6th All India Education Survey Report, referred to earlier. A closer scrutiny of the said report brings to light certain startling facts, which belie the claim made by the State and must therefore be enumerated. These are.- 23. It would therefore appear that the obligation of the State to provide free education which implies an obligation to provide adequate facilities for such education has not been fully discharged. There are even after 50 years of independence, hundreds of schools which do not have proper accommodation. Similarly, there are hundreds of them that have no teachers, black boards, furniture, mats, etc. Toilet facilities for children is something rare. If that be the scenario, it is difficult to see how the State can claim to have done all that needs to be done for those who have a fundamental right to free education. The situation continues to be somewhat similar to what had shocked Justice Chinnappa Reddy,

who headed the 3rd Backward Classes Commission. He had observed thus.- 24. There is no room for complacence. The obligation to provide educational facilities is continuing in nature requiring sustained effort to keep pace with the ever growing number of students qualifying for free education. It also calls for a never ending process of upgrading the facilities provided in Schools already set up. All this would doubtless call for considerably higher budgetary outlays to meet the challenge, which was in terms of Article 46 of the Constitution to be achieved within a period of 10 years from commencement of Constitution. But if constitutional objectives are not meant to be ornamental or hollow declarations. If they represent our profound commitment to making universal education a reality the State must rise to meet the challenge and redeem the pledge which the founding fathers had taken. We can hardly ignore the fact that almost all the institutions deprived of the basic facilities and infrastructure are located in rural areas. Those exposed to economic and social backwardness denials and deprivations are thus subjected to the scourage of educational backwardness also, not so much out of lack of resources as official apathy towards the problem. Appropriate directions therefore need to be issued to ensure that the denial of an opportunity which has been held to be a part of right to life does not continue in perpetuity. I would not have been averse to recognising a Private Educational

Institution established in an area where there is no Government Institution as a State Institution and issued appropriate directions only if the petitioners had made out a case on those lines. None of the petitioners has however proved that the Institution established by it, is the only Institution in the absence of a Government School which has kept alive the flickering hope of the children for free education so as to make it imperative for the State to assist that endeavour till at least such time it establishes its own institutions in the discharge of its constitutional obligation. I have no hesitation in saying that should a case be made out for intervention of the Court on that basis; this Court' would be too happy to perform its constitutional duty of protecting the rights of those who may be suffering deprivations because of the neglect of the State or its functionaries, even if it were to do so suo motu. Question No. 2 is answered accordingly. Reg. Question No. 3: 25. Equality before the Law and equal protection of the laws guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution simply means absence of any arbitrary discrimination by the laws or their administration. The provision does not forbid classification if it is reasonable and rests on differences pertinent to the subject qua which the same is made. Decisions of the Supreme Court, from State of West Bengal v Anwar , down to the more recent pronouncements have consistently declared that in order to pass the test of a valid classification two conditions must be satisfied namely.- The decisions also recognise that the rule of equality does not mean mathematical equality and that practical inequalities are not beyond the comprehension of the protection guaranteed by Article 14. 26. The challenge to the provisions of Rule 3 in these cases proceeds on the ground that there is no real distinction between Institutions established before the cut-off date stipulated by the Rule and others established later. The argument in substance was that the fixation of a cut-off date was itself arbitrary and irrational in the matter of grant or denial of the benefit like financial aid from the State Government. That argument does not have the novelty which a point raised for the first time usually has. It is indeed not for the first time that the persons aggrieved of the fixation of a cut-off date have questioned its rationale on the touch-stone of Article 14 of the Constitution. In Union of India v P.N. Menon and Others , a similar argument was advanced by those who fell on the wrong side of a cut-off date fixed by the Government for

purposes of grant of retirement benefits to them. The Court held that whenever Government framed a Scheme for persons who have superannuated from service, it is not always possible to extend its benefit to one and all irrespective of the dates of their superannuation. Any such scheme if implemented with a cut-off date which can be held to be reasonable and rational need not be declared invalid. A cut-off date in fact becomes imperative because the benefit under the revised scheme has to be allowed within the financial resources available with the Government. The Court observed: 27. In Union of India v M.V. Valliappan , the validity of a cut-off date fixed for recognition of partial partition under the Income-tax Act , was questioned on the ground of arbitrariness. It was contended that the amendment which came into effect from 1st of April, 1980, brought about two distinct classes of assessees namely.--(1) Where the partial partition had taken place prior to the cut-off date and the other where such partition takes place after the said date. Withdrawal of benefit in the latter class of partitions, merely because of the prescription of a date would be offensive to Article 14 of the Constitution. Repelling the contention the Court observed.- 28. In University Grants Commission v Sadhana Chaudhary and Others , the validity of a cut-off date prescribed for purposes of exemption from appearance in a test as a condition of eligibility for appointment as a lecturer was called in question on the ground that the same was arbitrary. Repelling the contention their Lordships held thus.- 29. The classification made in the instant case when examined in the light of the principles laid down in the decisions referred to above , brings into focus the following important features.- 30. The argument that there is no nexus between the classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Education Act , also needs to be noticed only to be rejected. The object of the Act as seen earlier is to provide for a planned development of Educational Institutions, their maintenance and improvement. It is true that the Act envisages grant of financial aid to Private Educational Institutions, in furtherance of the objects underlying the same but any such aid is in no uncertain terms made subject to the economic capacity of the State. If the State's economic capacity permitted other private educational Institutions could claim a similar treatment in the matter of Grant-in-Aid. That however is not so. Even when the State had as per the affidavit filed on its behalf

set apart for 666 crores for distribution as aid during the previous financial year, yet the funds required to aid every institution may be much more in the absence of a proper classification. The compelling need to make a classification therefore arises by reason of the limited resources at the command of the State. Any rule which assists in the distribution of such resources by categorising institutions that would qualify for aid either fully or partially would therefore have a clear nexus with the object underlying the Act. Question No. 3 is accordingly answered in the negative. Reg. Question No. 4: 31. The argument that the impugned Rules are ultra vires of the Act, inasmuch as the same instead of enabling the grant of aid under Section 49, denies that benefit to private educational Institutions must in the light of what I have observed while dealing with question No. 3, above, be rejected. What cannot be ignored is the fact that neither Section 49, nor any other provision in the Act, creates a legally enforceable right in the private Educational Institutions to demand aid from the Government. On the contrary, the provision itself recognises the limitation on any such claim by making it subject to the economic capacity of State. That apart, Section 49 envisages grant of aid to such local authority and private institutions as may be recognised for the purpose "in accordance with the rules made in that behalf. This implies that the rules may prescribe not only the method of distribution of aid but also differentiate institutions which would qualify for such aid from those which would not. There is therefore nothing in the impugned rule that can be termed repugnant to Section 3(2)(e) , Section 5 or Section 49 of the Act. 32. Equally untenable is the argument that the rule is bad because it deprives institutions as are providing education to children below 14 years of age. These Institutions could not according to the petitioners be deprived of the benefit of aid since those admitted to the same have a fundamental right to free education. I have while dealing with question No. 1, already held that private Educational Institutions whether imparting education to children below 14 years of age or above, do not have any fundamental or legally enforceable right of their own to claim Grant-in-Aid from the State. I have also while dealing with question No. 2, held that the fundamental right vested in children below 14 years of age, cannot be invoked by the Private Educational Institutions, although the Court may in its discretion and depending upon whether a Government Institution has or has not been established in the area where the Private Institution is working, issue appropriate directions to protect the interests of those admitted to the same. There is no gainsaid that fundamental right cannot be prejudiced let alone abrogated by an ordinary legislation much less by a rule enacted by the Government as a delegate of the legislature. It is however, hypothetical at this stage to determine the nature of the directions that can be granted to the aggrieved children should a petition be filed by them alleging violation of their right under Article 21 or seeking a direction to the Government to adopt a private educational institutions where such students may be

studying as a Government school till the Government discharges its obligation of providing a school of its own. All that need be said is that the vires of the Rule cannot be assailed by the Institutions by reference to the fundamental right guaranteed to the children who may have taken admission in them. 33. It was next argued that Rule 3 made all Institutions established after the cut-off date permanently grantless regardless of the economic capacity of the State. According to the petitioners any provision which would prevent the State from granting aid if it was otherwise in a position to do so would be ultra vires of Section 49, hence enforceable. The argument is attractive on the face of it, but, does not stand closer scrutiny. Rule 3 of the impugned Rules is framed to cater to a situation where the economic capacity of the State does not permit it to grant aid to institutions established after the cut-off date. Should the State's economic position undergo a change for the better, nothing prevents the rule making authority to shift the cut-off date similarly so as to extend the benefit of aid to more number of institutions or to completely do away with the classification which the rule has brought about. A piece of subordinate legislation especially one involving financial implications for the State mirrors the policy of the Government in power which may be altered if the Government so desires. There is in that view nothing permanent about the expression 'permanently' appearing in Rule 3 which must be understood to convey that the Institutions shall remain grantless till in the opinion of the Government adequate funds can be made available for distribution. So understood there is no conflict between Section 49 and Rule 3 of the impugned Rules. Question No. 4 is accordingly answered against the petitioners. Reg. Question No. 5: 34. Section 145(3) of the Karnataka Education Act, permits the making of the Rules with retrospective effect. In any such case, the reasons for doing so have to be specified in the statement to be laid before both the houses of State Legislature. Sub-section (4) of Section 145 on the other hand requires every notification issued and every rule made under the Act, to be laid before each House of the State Legislature for a period of 14 days. It further provides that if both the Houses agree in making any modification in the notification or in the rule, or in their annulment, the notification or rule shall from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect only in such modified form or shall stand annulled as the case may be subject however that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything being previously done under that notification or rule. The argument advanced on behalf of the petitioners was that since a statement indicating the reasons for making the impugned rule retrospective was not laid before the Houses of the Legislature nor was the rule placed before the Legislature in terms of sub-section (4) the same would remain inoperative till such time that requirement was complied with. The question in essence is whether the provisions of Section 145(3) and (4) of the Act are mandatory in nature. An answer to that is provided by

the decisions of the Supreme Court in Jan Mohammad Noor Mohamad Bagban v State of Gujarat and Others , and M/s. Atlas Cycle Industries Limited and Others v State of Haryana . In Jan Mohammad 's case, supra, the Court was examining the failure of a similar requirement under the Bombay Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1939. The Court found that Section 26(5) of the Act, under which the rules were made did not prescribe that the same will acquire validity only from the date on which they are placed before the Houses of the legislature and that the failure to place the rules before the Houses of Legislature did not affect the validity of the rules. The laying requirement was in that context held to be directory. To the same effect is the view taken by their Lordships in Atlas Cycle 's case, supra, where relying upon 'Craies on Statute Law', the Court held that the "laying" requirement prescribed by the Act, was not mandatory so as to invalidate the statutory order made by the Government. 35. The laying requirement in Section 145(3) and (4) is not meant to invite any affirmative action from the Legislature. It on the contrary envisages either an annulment or modification of the rule or notification by the two Houses of the Legislature whereafter the rule or notification would be effective only in its modified form or would stand annulled as the case may be. What is significant is that sub-section (4) itself recognises as valid any action provisionally taken under any such notification or rule. This implies that the provision does not make laying before the legislature a condition precedent for the rule to become effective. The fact that the Legislature has not stipulated the consequences of the failure to lay prescribed by sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 145 is also a strong circumstance suggesting that it never intended the said requirement to be mandatory. It follows that the laying requirement whether the same be regarding the statement of reasons for making the rule retrospective as required under Section 3 or the laying of the Rules, in terms of sub-section (4) is a directory requirement, failure whereof does not invalidate either the rules or any action taken thereunder. Mr. Kulkarni, Counsel appearing for some of the petitioners argued that the retrospective effect given to the rule was impermissible having regard to the fact that by doing so the rule making authority was taking away the vested right of the petitioners under the Grant-in-Aid Codes in force. He placed reliance upon an unreported Division Bench decision of this Court in S. Chandrasekhar and Others v Union of India and Others , in support of that submission. There is no merit in that submission. In the case cited by the learned Counsel the authority making the rule did not have the power to do so retrospectively. That is not so in the present case where Section 145 itself authorises the Government to give retrospective effect to the rules that it may make. 36. It was next argued that the rule violated the doctrine of promissory estoppel and was therefore legally bad. Reliance was placed upon

M/s. Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Company Limited v State of Uttar Pradesh and Others , in support of that submission. The argument must fail for more than one reasons. Firstly, because the petitioners have not laid any foundation in the pleadings for canvassing that ground of challenge. In the absence of proper averments, it is not open to the petitioners to invoke the doctrine of promissory or equitable estoppel as the same is sometimes called. Secondly, because there really was no promise in the Grant-in-Codes that the institutions shall be given aid either immediately after they are established or after lapse of any prescribed period. The Codes on the contrary declare that aid cannot be claimed as a matter of right and may be withdrawn at any stage. Thirdly, because it is doubtful whether the doctrine has application against legislative measures like rules framed under a validly enacted piece of legislation. Question No. 5, is accordingly answered in the negative. Reg. Question No. 6: 37. In compliance with the directions issued by this Court by order dated 16th of July, 1999, Secretary to Government, Education Department, has filed an affidavit stating that the Government have by an order dated 22nd of October, 1994, admitted 60 Institutions managed by SC/ST communities to the benefits of Grant-in-Aid. Two other Institutions namely (1) Muneshwara Primary School, at Bhalki and (2) Bapuji Higher Primary School, Pavagada, Tumkur, were also similarly admitted to Grant-in-Aid by Government Orders dated 30th of December, 1996 and 7th of June, 1997 respectively. The latter two of these orders were according to the affidavit issued pursuant to the directions from this Court in writ petitions filed by the Institutions claiming Grant-in-Aid. Although according to the petitioners there were some other institutions also which have been similarly admitted to the benefit of financial aid from the State yet that allegation has been upon verification found to be incorrect. An affidavit filed by the respondents on 6th of December, 1999 has given the particulars of all such institutions from which it is evident that they were established before the cut-off date. We will therefore proceed on the premise that only 62 institutions covered by the three Government Orders mentioned above are drawing financial aid, even though the same were established after the cut-off date stipulated in the impugned Rules. 38. The contention urged on behalf of the petitioners was that grant of aid to some while denial thereof to others although similarly situate falls foul of Article 14 of the Constitution. This Court could according to the petitioners take affirmative action and direct the release of aid to similarly situate Institutions belonging to SC/ST categories and even others on the analogy of the orders referred to above . Reliance was placed in support upon two decisions of the Supreme Court in Eskayef Limited v Collector of Central Excise and Vishundas Hundumal and
Others v State of Madhya Pradesh and Others . 39. Rule 3 of the impugned Rules which came into force in September 1998, is as noticed earlier retrospective in operation in that it makes all such institutions as are established after the cut-off date ineligible for Grant-in-Aid, With the framing of the said rule any benefit which the Government may have granted to such institutions in terms of orders made after the cut-off date and before the promulgation of the rules would become inadmissible from the date the rules came into force. In the ordinary course therefore, the flow of aid to such institutions could and ought to have been discontinued to ensure that the provision made by the rules is applied uniformly to all those similarly circumstanced. The Government have not however for whatever reasons withdrawn the benefit no matter the same offends its policy and the statutory provision alike. The question then is whether the continued flow of aid to such institutions even in the teeth of Rule 3 of the Rules can be made a basis for directing a similar treatment to the petitioners or such of them as fall in the category to which the beneficial institutions belong. Mr. Vishwanath, argued that the continuance of the benefit in violation of the rules was an illegality which could not be made a basis for claiming a similar treatment by the petitioners. There was no equality according to the learned Counsel in the matter of violation of the law especially when the petitioners did not have in the light of the Rule a valid enforceable right to demand Grant-in-Aid. 40. Can Article 14 be pressed into service to claim benefits that have been illegally granted to others is no longer res Integra. Decisions of the Supreme Court in Gursharan Singh and Others v New Delhi Municipal Committee and Others , Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur v Daulat Mal Jain , answer the proposition in the negative. In Gursharan Singh 's case, supra, the Court declared that an illegality or irregularity committed in favour of an individual cannot be made a basis for commission of a similar illegality or irregularity. Those who find the benefit to have been undeservedly granted can question the same but they cannot claim orders in their favour which are not sanctioned by law, on the principles of equality before law. The Court observed.- 41. To the same effect is the decision of their Lordships in the Jaipur Development Authority 's case, supra, where relying upon Chandigarh Administration and Another v Jagjit Singh and Another and Coromandel Fertilizers Limited v Union of India and Others , the Court declared that an illegality cannot be compounded by permitting the commission of another. Reference may also be made to a decision of the Supreme Court in M/s. Faridabad CT Scan Centre v D.G. Health Services and Others , where the Court has held thus.- In the light of the above pronouncements of the Supreme Court it is difficult to hold that the illegality in the continued grant of benefit to the institutions mentioned earlier notwithstanding this Court would be justified in directing a repetition or perpetuation thereof by extending the benefit to the petitioners and others like them. I may however with respect point out that a distinction may have to be made between cases

where an illegality grants a one time benefit to a person and those where the State or public Authority deliberately commits a recurring breach of a validly enacted provision of law. In the case of the former repetition of the illegality or irregularity would undeniably result in perpetuation of an illegality through the medium of a direction from the Court which is abhorrent to the rule of law. Such one time benefits resulting from administrative aberrations which are at times inspired by extraneous considerations may become irredeemable on account of change of circumstances or other complications making restitution a difficult task. In such cases, the illegality or irregularity may continue without there being much that can be done either by the State or by the Court to undo the same. The position would however be entirely different where the breach committed is not a mere accidental or stray case of abuse of power or authority but a case of persistent, deliberate and defiant conduct on the part of the authority charged with the duty of implementing the law. In any such situation, the rule which the Government persistently violates may wear-down and be rendered nugatory. Continued grant of aid to Institutions referred to earlier in total violation of the provisions of Rule 3 of the impugned Rules, presents a scenario of the latter kind. A breach of the rule takes place every month when the Government releases or authorises the release of aid in favour of Institutions not entitled to receive the same. That is precisely what has happened ever since September 1998 when the rules were brought into force. In such a situation it may be difficult to countenance the argument that the illegality being repeatedly committed by the Government notwithstanding, other institutions similarly situate have no right to make a grievance. It almost amounts to suggesting that the Government can at its choice violate the rule framed by it and yet successfully argue that another institution similarly situated would have no right to demand a similar treatment. It also means that the Government would have the right to choose the beneficiary of its illegalities and yet those excluded from such benefit shall ask no questions. Decisions of the Supreme Court in Vishundas Hundumal 's case, supra, and Eskayef Limited 's case, supra, tend to support that line of reasoning. In the former, their Lordships had noticed the unwillingness on the part of the State Authorities to rectify the order on the basis whereof the petitioners were claiming a similar relief. The Court had in that view taken what it described as 'constructive action' and placed the petitioner in the same position as those who had enjoyed the benefit of the State's inaction in the matter. When relied upon in latter case, the Supreme Court held that the respondents were not in that case unwilling to recover the dues which other manufacturers should have paid like the petitioners but which were not on account of the orders passed at various levels recovered from them. Mr. Vishwanath was asked whether the State was prepared to initiate appropriate proceedings aimed at stopping at least prospectively the grant of aid to the institutions referred to earlier. He was despite opportunities given to him unable to make any statement. It is therefore difficult for this Court to place these cases in one or the other category. If the State was prepared to take corrective action to ensure a uniform application of Rule 3 to all the institutions established after the cut-off date, the very foundation of the argument advanced on behalf of the petitioners would stand knocked out. The State has not made its stand clear on this aspect. The result is that we have an anomalous situation where the authority charged with implementing the law itself is committing a deliberate breach thereof to benefit a few out of a large number of other institutions who are in no way different. It may be difficult for the State to justify for long the position taken by anomalies may arise and exist for sometime, but the system cannot suffer them forever. I must also add that the view taken by me would not prevent the petitioners from challenging the grant or continuance of the benefit if so advised nor shall the Court's refusal to interfere be treated as legitimizing the flow of grant to such institutions as do not otherwise qualify for the same in the light of the impugned Rules. The Government would indeed do well to take appropriate corrective action to make the implementation of the policy uniform, non-discriminatory and above suspicion. Reg. Question No. 7: The above is just a sample of what is the prevailing state of affairs in schools which have for the past number of years been drawing aid from the State Government. And yet this Court is expected to believe that the officers concerned were required to recommend the grant of aid only if

the school satisfied the requirements of the Codes. This Court is also expected to believe that the officers concerned were required to periodically inspect the institutions to verify whether they were complying with the requirement of the Codes. I have not been able to pursuade myself to do so. I am of the opinion that there have been large scale irregularities in the matter of admitting the schools at all levels to the benefit of grant. Grant of aid appears to have been recommended and sanctioned by the concerned without having regard to the requirement of the Codes and in gross violation thereof. The result is that for years institutions which never really qualified for the benefit have drawn the same to the prejudice of the deserving and even the students for whose benefit the entire expense was ironically meant. What is interesting to note is that the Vigilance Squad established in the year 1995 to surprise check the institutions conducted inspections of only 38 institutions over a period of nearly five years which works out to less than even 1% per year. Suffice it to say that the State has totally failed to ensure that Grant-in-Aid is not abused by the unscrupulous and the undeserving. If the facts that have come to light are seen in the light of the obligations that were enjoined upon those dealing with the disbursement and sanction of aid one is left to wonder at the magnitude of abuse of public money that has taken place over the past years. Constitution of a Vigilance Squad which remained a mute spectator to what was going on or the belated issue of instructions to the officers to inspect the institutions to find the deficiencies in the same are in my opinion totally insufficient to deal with let alone cure the malady that has eaten into the vitals of the system. Something drastic and immediate therefore needs to be done to prevent what may very soon explode as the scam of the millennium. Karnataka Education Act, 1983 is a fairly elaborate piece of legislation. It empowers the State to frame rules in furtherance of the objects of the Act. Rule 4 of the Karnataka Education Institution (Classification, Regulation and Prescription of Curriculla etc.) Rules provides that no educational institutions shall function in a building which does not satisfy the requirements prescribed therein. Rule 5 of the said Rules prescribes the minimum accommodation per student, furniture etc. Rule 16 prescribes the requirement of drinking water, toilets and other facilities. In terms of Rule 7 of the Rules every institution which was in existence as on the date of commencement of the rules is under an obligation to provide the facilities specified in Rules 4, 5 and 6 within a period of three years. Since every educational institution whether established before or after the enforcement of the Act, is required to get itself registered, the Classification and Registration Rules, 1997 provide that institutions must comply with the requirement of Rules 4, 5, 6 and 9 of the earlier mentioned rules which prescribe the norms for accommodation and other facilities. Section 53 of the Education Act, empowers the Government to withhold, reduce or withdraw grant in case the institution fails to fulfil all or any one of the conditions stipulated for the same. Adequate accommodation, laboratories, libraries, playgrounds, staff toilets, and drinking water facilities are all essential conditions for the grant of aid to private institutions. Although existing institutions, which do not fulfil the minimum requirements prescribed under the rules referred to earlier, are bound to get identified and isolated in due course, yet since the process of registration is in itself somewhat disorganised and tardy it is neither necessary nor prudent for the State to wait till each institution especially those receiving aid gets identified and eventually excluded from the list of beneficiaries. The need to check the flow or undeserved benefit in the form of aid and consequential wasteful burden on the exchequer need not be emphasised. Institutions that do not satisfy the bare minimum prescribed by the rules viz., adequate accommodation, laboratory and library, toilet and drinking water facilities for the children and space for sports activities and playgrounds need to be identified straightaway and the flow of aid to them stopped. The resources thus saved can be more gainfully utilised by shifting the cut-off date to include more institutions deserving out of whom can then benefit from the scheme. To sum up.- In the result, these writ petitions are disposed of with the following directions.- The parties are left to bear their own costs.