There’s a new update in Tamil Nadu’s winding journey to regulate online gambling. The state’s Governor returned the proposed law that tried to ban online gambling to the state government, reported the Indian Express . The Hindu reports that this was because the state government lacked the “legislative competence” to frame the law in the first place, with the Governor citing the Indian government’s recently proposed rules to regulate the online gaming sector to support his position.

The bill will be examined by the state legislature now, said sources speaking to the Express . It may be referred back to the state Assembly—which sits from March 20th—for reconsideration.

What’s the proposed law? The bill is the Tamil Nadu government’s attempt at regulating online gambling in the aftermath of multiple gambling-related suicides in the state. It was passed by the Assembly last October, after which it was sent to Governor R.N. Ravi for his assent. That assent never came—and the bill expired without it by November. The government has been at loggerheads with Ravi over the stalling of the law. The matter has been raised by Tamil Nadu’s Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in videos, and by Members of Parliament too.

What were Ravi’s concerns? This isn’t the Tamil Nadu government’s first attempt to ban online gambling. A similar law brought about in 2021 was struck down by the Madras High Court on various grounds—one of them being that the government lacked the legislative competence to ban the wide range of non-gambling games that it did. Ravi referred to this judgment while raising three concerns with the law, reports the Express .

Why it matters : According to Ministers of Parliament from the state, over 40 people died by suicide due to online gambling, after the bill lapsed last November. A law that regulates the sector may be needed. However, experts believe the Tamil Nadu government’s current attempt to do the same uses broad provisions to ban games that have been held by the Supreme Court to not be gambling games in the first place.

Gaming sector suffers from legal clarity : “The law is pretty much the same [as the 2021 attempt to ban online gambling] because they use the same terms [to define and regulate gaming and gambling] as last time. Unfortunately, when you use terms which have been interpreted by the Supreme Court, it becomes very difficult to give them a different colour,” said experts speaking to MediaNama . Ultimately, all of this confusion arises because there’s little legal consensus or clarity on who regulates gambling and non-gambling games in India. IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw recently noted in parliament that “we, as very responsible lawmakers, should come with a consensus [to parliament] and then have a Central act which is created in consultation with everybody. That Central act should effectively regulate online games and gambling.” Only time will tell if these pan-Indian efforts will mitigate serious consumer harms related to the sector.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event