and background of the case: Reproduced verbatim Page 1 of 4 2. The PIO, O/o DCP, Hqrs - II, Delhi Police sent a reply dated 07.06.2024
stating that response will be provided by PIO, Central District to whom the case
has been forwarded. 3. Aggrieved on not receiving the desired information, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 29.07.2024, seeking information about present status of his
complaint and investigation done in the matter. The FAA, Central District vide
order dated 13.09.2024 decided the First Appeal noting as under: Reproduced verbatim 4. The Appellant filed the instant Second Appeal being dissatisfied with the non
receipt of satisfactory reply on point no. 2 and 3 of the RTI Application. Facts emerging in course of Hearing: 5. Hearing was scheduled after giving prior notice to both the parties. Appellant: Present in person during hearing. Respondent: Mr. Atul Kalia - APIO and Insp. Rajesh Kumar - Police Hq.; SI Subhash
Chander - RTI, Central District; ASI Pankaj and SI Gaurav Singh - PS Cyber Central
were present in person during hearing. 6. The Appellant present during the hearing contended that he was not satisfied
with the information furnished because the status of his complaint has not been
furnished by the Respondent. He further pointed out that information with respect
to the queries number 2 and 3 have also not been furnished by the Respondent. 7. The Respondent SI from Central District present during the hearing stated
that the Appellant had not been pursuing his complaint and hence the complaint
had been closed after trying to contact him. The option of pursuing his complaint
was left at the choice of the Appellant, as noted from the gist of enquiry report
submitted by the EO/SI PS Palam village with the PIO's reply. The SI from Central
District also referred to the PIO's reply dated 27.06.2024, whereby the Appellant
had been informed that investigation is pending with ASI Pankaj Yadav, PS Cyber
Central District. This reply of the PIO has been taken into consideration by the FAA
in his order. 8. During the course of hearing, the Respondent from Central District
submitted a note dated 22.12.2025 from ASI Pankaj Yadav, PS Cyber Central
District, endorsed by the ACP/OPS/CD stating as under: Decision: 9. Upon hearing submissions of the parties and perusal of the relevant records
submitted by the parties, it is noted that the PIO had furnished a response to the
Appellant's queries vide reply dated 27.06.2024, based on available records. Subsequently, vide the reply dated 22.12.2025, the Respondent claimed that
 though details like the URL of product seen on Instagram and payments details
 were sought from the Appellant, since the same were not provided by the Appellant,
 the case was closed due to non availability of records. The Respondent has placed
 on record the documents viz. replies dated 27.06.2024 and 22.12.2025 mentioned
 during the course of hearing. The Commission directs the Respondent-CPIO,
 Central District, Delhi police to send the Appellant a complete set of
 communication dated 27.06.2024 and 22.12.2025 submitted before the
 Commission, within one week of receipt of this order, under intimation to the
 Commission. 10. Under the circumstances, the Commission is of the considered opinion that
 information as defined under Section 2(f) of the RTI Act stands disseminated by
 the Respondent public authority, in consonance with the provisions of the RTI Act .
 Hence, no further intervention is warranted in this case, under the RTI Act . The appeal is dismissed accordingly. Sd/- Raj Kumar Goyal (राज कुमार गोयल)
 Chief Information Commissioner (मु य सूचना आयु )

Authenticated true copy
(अिभ मािणत स यािपत ित)

Bijendra Kumar (िबज कुमार)
Dy. Registrar (उप-पंजीयक)/011-26186535 Page 4 of 4 Recomendation(s) to PA under section 25(5) of the RTI Act, 2005:-