Eight (8) appeals have been filed against four orders. The

impugned orders flow from the consequences of the loan

agreement dated July 21, 2009 and call option agreements dated

July 21, 2009. Since the matter is interlinked in one way or the

other, all the eight appeals are being decided together. Appeal

No. 293 of 2018 has been filed by Vishvapradhan Commercial

Pvt. Ltd. ("VCPL" for convenience) against the order dated

June 26, 2018 passed by the Whole Time Member ("WTM" for

convenience) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

directing VCPL to make an open offer in terms of Regulation 44

of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)

Regulations, 1997 and Regulation 32 of the SEBI (Substantial

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011

("SAST Regulations, 2011" for convenience) SAST

Regulations, 2011. 2. Appeal Nos. 294, 295 and 296 of 2019 has been filed by

Dr. Prannoy Roy ("PR"), Radhika Roy ("RR") and RRPR

Holding Pvt. Ltd. ("RRPR") respectively against the order dated 7 June 14, 2019 passed by the WTM restraining PR, RR and

RRPR from accessing the securities market for a period of two

years and further restraining PR and RR from holding or

occupying any position as Director or as Key Managerial

Personnel in NDTV for a period of two years or in any other

listed Company for a period of one year. 3. Appeal No. 77 of 2021, 78 of 2021 and 79 of 2021 has

been filed by PR, RR and RRPR respectively against the order

dated December 24, 2020 passed by the Adjudicating Officer

("AO" for convenience) imposing a penalty of Rs. 25 crores

under Section 15HA of the SEBI Act and Rs. 1 crore each under Section 23H of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956

("SCRA" for convenience). 4. Appeal No. 80 of 2021 has been filed by NDTV against

the order dated December 29, 2020 passed by the AO imposing

a penalty of Rs. 5 crore under Section 23E of the SCRA. 5. The facts leading to the filing of Appeal No. 293 of 2018

is, that Prannoy Roy ("PR") and Radhika Roy ("RR") own and

control RRPR Holding Pvt. Ltd. ("RRPR" for convenience)

Prannoy Roy, Radhika Roy and RRPR Holding Pvt. Ltd. 8 (hereinafter referred to as "the promoters") are promoters of

New Delhi Television Limited ("NDTV" for convenience), a

public limited company holding 61.45% of the total

shareholding of the Company. 6. In June 2008, the promoters of NDTV made an open offer

for the shares of NDTV. To finance the open offer, they

borrowed around Rs. 540 crores from Indiabulls Financial

Services Limited, for which purpose, they pledged their shares

in NDTV as security. In October 2008, the promoters took a

loan of Rs. 375 crores from ICICI Bank Limited, in order to

repay Indiabulls Financial Services Limited. The ICICI loan

carried a rate of interest of 19% per annum. The promoters, in

order to secure the borrowing of Rs. 375 crores, had

encumbered their entire shareholding in NDTV by way of non-

disposal undertakings with ICICI Bank. Individual promoters,

i.e. Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy also provided personal

guarantees for this loan. 7. In July 2009, the promoters took a loan of Rs. 350 crores,

from VCPL (the appellant) in order to repay ICICI Bank.

RRPR, RR and PR and VCPL were signatories to the loan 9 agreement. Through this loan agreement, a sum of Rs. 350

crores was advanced to RRPR to enable RRPR to discharge its

liability to ICICI Bank Limited. Simultaneously, two call

option agreements dated July 21, 2009 were also executed for

1,63,05,404 equity shares of NDTV representing 26% of NDTV

shares. The call option agreement between RRPR and Shyam

Equities Private Limited ("SEPL" for convenience) in terms of

which SEPL had the right to purchase 11.01% equity shares of

NDTV from RRPR at a call option price of Rs. 214.65 per

share. Another call option agreement of the same date was

executed between RRPR and Subhgami Trading Private Limited

("STPL" for convenience) in terms of which STPL had a right

to purchase 14.99% equity shares of NDTV from RRPR at a call

option price at Rs. 214.65 per share. Needless to say here,

SEPL and STPL are associates of VCPL. Another loan was

taken by the promoters from VCPL on January 25, 2010 for

Rs. 53.85 crores. 8. The terms of the loan agreement are as follows:- aggregating to 99.99% of the fully diluted
 equity share capital of RRPR at the time 10 of conversion, convertible at any time
 during the tenure of the loan or thereafter. (iv). VCPL shall have the right to purchase
 from the promoters all the equity shares
 of RRPR at par value. (v). VCPL and its affiliates cannot purchase
 shares of NDTV which will increase their
 holding to more than 26% in NDTV
 without the consent of the promoters. (vi). One of the conditions precedent to the
 execution of agreement was sale of
 11,563,683 shares of NDTV from the
 promoters to RRPR such that RRPR
 holds 26% shares of NDTV. (vii). Appointment of atleast one director (out
 of 3) nominated by VCPL on the Board
 of RRPR, whose presence is necessary to
 constitute quorum for any meeting of the
 Board. (viii). VCPL shall not interfere with the
 editorial policies of NDTV. (ix). Over the next 3 to 5 years, RRPR and
 VCPL will look for a stable and reliable
 buyer of RRPR who will maintain the
 brand and credibility of NDTV. (x). The promoters together with their
 affiliates shall exercise their voting rights
 in RRPR and NDTV. (xi). In terms of Schedule 3, the following
 matters relating to RRPR would require
 prior written consent of VCPL: (valuation at which lender has put money
 into the company). (b) Merger, amalgamation or consolidation
 of NDTV with any other entity. (c) Cause NDTV to take any steps towards
 bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization,
 arrangement, adjustment, winding up,
 liquidation etc. (d) Buyback of equity securities, reduction or
 alteration of share capital of NDTV. (e) Take any action to issue any equity
 securities or enter into any agreement as a
 result of which the promoters cease to be
 in sole control of NDTV. 9. The terms of the call option agreements are as under:- ii) For a period of 5 years the promoters would only sell

 their shares after taking consent from the call option

 holders. If, the call option is exercised, the

 purchasers cannot sell those shares for a period of 5

 years from the date of the loan agreement without

 prior consent of Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy. iii) There is a right of first refusal for the call option

 holders and the promoters with respect to the NDTV

 shares when they want to dispose of such shares of

 NDTV. iv) Pronnoy Roy and Radhika Roy shall not engage in

 any business competing with NDTV. 10. After eight years a show cause notice dated December 20,

2016 was issued to show cause why suitable directions under Section 11(1) and 11(4) of the SEBI Act and Regulation 44 and

45 of the SAST Regulations, 1997 read with Regulation 32 and 14 35 of the SAST Regulations, 2011 should not be issued against

VCPL for the alleged violations. The violations alleged were

that VCPL had acquired veto rights in RRPR and NDTV

indirectly over the 26% shareholding held by RRPR and NDTV

which resulted in the acquisition of "control" in RRPR and

indirect control in NDTV by VCPL. Further, VCPL on account

of indirect acquisition failed to make a public announcement of

an open offer in terms of Regulation 12 read with Regulation

14(3) of the SAST Regulations, 1997. 11. The WTM after considering the replies filed by VCPL

and, after considering the material evidence on record, passed

the impugned order issuing the following directions:- 12. The WTM held that the loan agreement was a façade in

the form of a loan transaction and was executed in order to

shroud the true nature of the transaction, namely, to acquire

indirect control of NDTV. The WTM rejected the contention of

VCPL that the loan transaction was an asset-recourse lending

arrangement. The WTM contended that the loan had an inbuilt

agreement to purchase the company's stock at a fixed price over

and above the prevailing current market price. Further, a

perusal of clause 6 of the loan agreement indicated that even

without exercising the conversion option of equity share capital 16 of RRPR, VCPL had a right to purchase the shares of RRPR at

par value. Further, the conversion of warrants even after the

tenure of the loan indicated that VCPL had in fact acquired

control over the company. The WTM held that the exercise of

the right to convert warrants into the shares of RRPR was not

dependent on the repayment of the loan and, whether or not the

loan was repaid, VCPL could validly seek conversion of the

warrants withheld with RRPR and, consequently, concluded that

VCPL was indirectly holding 26% shares of NDTV. The

WTM, thus, concluded that it was not a simple case of a secured

loan or an instance of asset-recourse lending as contended by

VCPL. 13. The WTM further held that the valuation of the collateral

was very peculiar, namely, that the valuation of the shares at

Rs. 214.65 per share which was above the market value of the

NDTV shares could not be accepted and this unusual valuation

reinforced the belief that the said convertible warrants could not

be referred to as collateral and were independent elements

independent of the whole transactions. 14. The WTM further held that the voting rights provided

under clause 20 of the loan agreement unambiguously binds the

promoters and in effect gives complete control to VCPL.

Further, clause 20 of the loan agreement does not give any

discretion to the promoters with respect to the voting rights in

NDTV. In fact, through clause 20 of the loan agreement, the

promoters have ceded their voting rights to the extent of 26%

covered in the loan agreement and, therefore, the exercise of

voting rights pursuant to the execution of the loan agreement,

call option agreement are controlled by VCPL under the terms

of the transaction documents. 15. The WTM found that there was no clause in the loan

agreement for terminating the agreement upon repayment of the

loan transaction. Further, the loan granted was without any

interest which leads to an inference that it was not a commercial

transaction and that the loan agreement was executed in order to

acquire beneficial interest in the shares of NDTV. The WTM

further concluded that the primary purpose that can be

deciphered from the call option agreement was to acquire a

stake or control in NDTV and that the option to exercise its

rights under the call option agreements was not limited to any 18 contingent event which would trigger its exercise. The WTM

further concluded that non-compete clause in the agreement is

generally found in share purchase agreement and not under the

loan agreement and, therefore, such non-compete clause points

out to a controlling stake in NDTV. The WTM, therefore,

concluded that the loan transaction was used to shroud the true

nature of the transaction and the entire purpose was to acquire

control. 16. We have heard Shri Dwarkadas, the learned senior counsel

assisted by Shri Somasekhar Sundaresan, the learned counsel

for the appellants and Shri Gaurav Joshi, the learned senior

counsel assisted by Shri Abhiraj Arora, the learned counsel for

the respondent. 17. It was urged and contended by the learned senior counsel

for VCPL that Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy required money

to repay their borrowings availed from ICICI Bank Limited to

the extent of Rs. 375 crores which carried an interest @ 19% per

annum against which they had encumbered their entire

shareholding and also provided personal guarantees. For the

aforesaid purpose, a commercial loan was provided by VCPL. 19 While granting the loan, certain collateral securities and

protective rights were taken, namely, exercise of the warrant

conversion option to acquire 99.99% equity shares of RRPR

resulting in indirect acquisition of 26% equity shares. The same

would also result when VCPL exercises the purchase option to

purchase all the equity shares of RRPR held by Radhika Roy

and Prannoy Roy. In addition, VCPL through its affiliates

could directly purchase 26% equity shares of NDTV at a price

of Rs. 214.65 per shares by paying Rs. 350 crores to RRPR

which amount could be utilized by RRPR to repay the loan to

VCPL. If, VCPL was interested in the media business of

NDTV it could acquire 26% equity shares of NDTV at

Rs. 214.65 per share irrespective of the prevailing market price.

This arrangement was beneficial to both the parties, namely,

VCPL and the promoters of NDTV. It was further contended

that the WTM committed a manifest error in analyzing various

provisions of the loan agreement to come to a conclusion that

the loan agreement was nothing else but an indirect method of

acquisition of the shares of NDTV and/ or control over the

management of NDTV. It was contended that the said finding is

patently perverse as the loan agreement does not in any manner

entail an acquisition of shares in NDTV, nor control over the 20 management or policy decisions in NDTV. It was contended

that so long as the loan remained unpaid, VCPL continued to

have warrant conversion option and the purchase option and the

call option under the call option arrangement. It was contended

that unless such options are exercised, the obligation to make an

open offer is not triggered under Regulation 14 of SAST

Regulations, 1997. 18. Shri Dwarkadas, the learned senior counsel contended that

the essential ingredients as defined under Regulation 2(1)(c) are

not satisfied in the present facts and circumstances of the case.

The essential ingredients to constitute control are right to

appoint majority of the directors, holding majority voting rights

and/ or control over management and policy decisions of the

company which in the instant case is non-existent nor any

evidence has come on record to show that VCPL has control

over NDTV through any of the aforesaid ingredients as per Regulation 2(1)(c) of the SAST Regulations. 19. It was urged that matters covered in the 3rd Schedule to

the Loan Agreement are limited protected rights with a view to

safeguard and protect the loan. The control or management and 21 policy decisions of NDTV and RRPR continued to remain with

Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy and such control at no point of

time came to VCPL nor was it exercised. Further, the act of

securing its loan through warrant conversion option, purchase

option and call option over NDTV equity shares were limited

protective rights and did not amount to acquisition of indirect

control by VCPL over NDTV. It was contended that only if the

options stated aforesaid were exercised by VCPL only then 26%

shares would come under the control of VCPL and/ or its

associates. It was urged, that the loan agreement was a

commercial bargain which is required to be interpreted in a

business like manner and that the WTM has committed a

manifest error in reading between the lines and drawing

conclusions that the loan transaction was nothing else but a

facade in the form of a loan transaction in order to shroud the

true nature of the transaction, namely, to acquire control of

NDTV. 20. In support of his contention the learned counsel has placed

reliance upon the decision of this Tribunal in Subhkam

Ventures (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI (2010) SCC Online SAT

35, the decision of the WTM in Victor Fernandes vs. Network 22 18, dated 15 November 2019 which was affirmed by this

Tribunal by its judgement dated September 28, 2021 in Appeal

No. 618 of 2019 and, the decision of the Supreme Court in Arcelormittal India Private Limited vs. Satish Kumar Gupta &

Ors. (2019) 2 SCC 1. 21. On the other hand, Shri Gaurav Joshi, the learned senior

counsel for the respondent contended that under the garb of a

loan agreement, VCPL had acquired voting rights in NDTV in

as much as the loan did not carry any interest and that the loan

was repayable at the end of 10 years. It was further contended

that the conversion of warrants was not dependent on the loan

agreement and even after the loan was repaid the conversion

warrants could be exercised. Much emphasis was laid on the

use of the word 'thereafter'. It was contended that from a

perusal of clause 7, 8 & 20 of the loan agreement, it was clear

that VCPL had indirectly taken control over NDTV and,

therefore, was required to make an open offer under the SAST

Regulations which they failed to do so. It was urged that the

call option agreements binds the borrower and the lender and

restricts them from selling or transferring NDTV shares to any

person for a period of 5 years from the date of the loan 23 agreement. It was also urged that because of this clause, VCPL

through its associates had an enforceable right over NDTV

shares that prevented RRPR from selling their shares without its

permission. Not only this, the non-compete clause clearly

shows the intention of VCPL to control the promoters of

NDTV. It was contended that by exercising warrant conversion

option and call option agreement, VCPL acquired 52% of the

shares of NDTV indirectly. It was also urged, that clause 20 of

the loan agreement does not give any discretion to the promoters

with regard to the exercise of their voting rights in NDTV and,

consequently, the promoters have in fact ceded their voting

rights on the 26% equity shares covered in the loan agreement

and another 26% equity shares covered in the call option

agreements. It was thus urged, that the voting on 52% equity

shares of NDTV is controlled under these agreements by VCPL. 22. Having the heard the learned counsel for the parties at

some length and upon a perusal of the impugned order, we find

that the finding in the impugned order is, that VCPL acquired

indirect control over NDTV by entering into a loan agreement

and call option agreements thereby obligating VCPL to make a

public announcement of an open offer under Regulation 12 read 24 with Regulation 14(3) of the SAST Regulations. In our opinion,

the matter is not one of acquisition of shares of voting rights of

NDTV directly or indirectly or acquisition of control over

NDVT directly. In fact, according to us, the limited issue for

determination is, whether, the appellant acquired indirect

control over NDTV by entering into these agreements. In this

regard, before we proceed further, it would be appropriate to

peruse Regulation 2(1)(b) , 2(1)(c) , 12 and 14(1) ,(2) and (3) of

the SAST Regulations, 1997 which are extracted hereunder:- 2(1)(b) "acquirer" means any person who,
 directly or indirectly, acquires or agrees to
 acquire shares or voting rights in the target
 company, or acquires or agrees to acquire
 control over the target company, either by
 himself or with any person acting in concert
 with the acquirer; Regulation 2(1)(c) "control shall include the
 right to appoint majority of the directors or
 to control the management or policy
 decisions exercisable by a person or persons
 acting individually or in concert, directly or
 indirectly, including by virtue of their
 shareholding or management rights or
 shareholders agreements or voting
 agreements or in any other manner." Acquisition of control
" Regulation 12 . Irrespective of whether or
not there has been any acquisition of shares
or voting rights in a company, no acquirer
shall acquire control over the target
company, unless such person makes a public
announcement to acquire shares and
acquires such shares in accordance with the
regulations: regulation (1) shall be made not later than
 four working days before he acquires voting
 rights on such securities upon conversion, or
 exercise of option, as the case may be. Provided that in case of American
 Depository Receipts or Global Depository
 Receipts entitling the holder thereof to
 exercise voting rights in excess of percentage
 specified in regulation 10 or regulation 11,
 on the shares underlying such depository
 receipts, public announcement shall be made
 within four working days of acquisition of
 such depository receipts. (3) The public announcement referred to in
 regulation 12 shall be made by the merchant
 banker not later than four working days after
 any such change or changes are decided to
 be made as would result in the acquisition of
 control over the target company by the
 acquirer." 23. From a perusal of the aforesaid provisions, it is clear that

an acquirer is a person who acquires control over the target

company either directly or indirectly. The word "control" as 28 defined under Regulation 2(1)(c) includes the right to appoint

majority of the directors or to control the management or policy

decisions directly or indirectly, individually or in concert by

virtue of the shareholding or management rights or shareholding

agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner. Regulation 12 prescribes that no acquirer shall acquire control

unless such person makes a public announcement to acquire

shares. Regulation 14 prescribes that such public announcement

should be made within four working days. 24. From the aforesaid, it is clear that the meaning and import

of the term "control" as defined in Regulation 2(1)(c) of the

SAST Regulations, 1997 is of vital importance. The term

"control" was considered and explained by this Tribunal in the

matter of M/s. Subhkam Ventures (I) Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI in

Appeal No. 08 of 2009 decided on January 15, 2010. In this

appeal, the question raised was whether the share subscription

and shareholders agreement executed by Shubhkam gave

control over the target company as per the Regulation 2(1)(c) of

the SAST Regulations, 1997. This Tribunal examined and

explained what the word "control" under Regulation 2(1)(c) means as under:- Control, according to the definition, is a
proactive and not a reactive power. It is a
power by which an acquirer can command
the target company to do what he wants it to
do. Control really means creating or
controlling a situation by taking the
initiative. Power by which an acquirer can
only prevent a company from doing what the
latter wants to do is by itself not control. In
that event, the acquirer is only reacting
rather than taking the initiative. It is a
positive power and not a negative power. In
a board managed company, it is the board of
directors that is in control. If an acquirer
were to have power to appoint majority of
directors, it is obvious that he would be in
control of the company but that is not the
only way to be in control. If an acquirer
were to control the management or policy
decisions of a company, he would be in
control. This could happen by virtue of his
shareholding or management rights or by
reason of shareholders agreements or voting
agreements or in any other manner. The
test really is whether the acquirer is in
t h e d riving seat. To extend the metaphor
further, the question would be whether he
controls the steering, accelerator, the gears
and the brakes. If the answer to these 31 questions is in the affirmative, then alone
 would he be in control of the company. In
 other words, the question to be asked in each
 case would be whether the acquirer is the
 driving force behind the company and
 whether he is the one providing motion to the
 organization. If yes, he is in control but not
 otherwise. In short control means effective
 control." 25. The Supreme Court while considering the expression

"control" in Section 29(A)(c) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy

Code, 2016 ("IBC 2016" for convenience) held:- This control of management or policy decisions
 could be by virtue of shareholding or
 management rights or shareholders agreement
 or voting agreements or in any other manner.
 This definition appears to be similar to the one
 as given in Black's Law Dictionary (Eighth
 Edition) at page 353 where this term has been
 defined as under: Control, according to the definition, is a
proactive and not a reactive power. It is a power
by which an acquirer can command the target
company to do what he wants it to do. Control
really means creating or controlling a situation
by taking the initiative. Power by which an
acquirer can only prevent a company from doing
what the latter wants to do is by itself not control.
In that event, the acquirer is only reacting rather
than taking the initiative. It is a positive power
and not a negative power. In a board managed
company, it is the board of Directors that is in
control. If an acquirer were to have power to
appoint majority of Directors, it is obvious that
he would be in control of the company but that is
not the only way to be in control. If an acquirer
were to control the management or policy
decisions of a company, he would be in control.
This could happen by virtue of his shareholding
or management rights or by reason of
shareholders agreements or voting agreements or
in any other manner. The test really is whether
the acquirer is in the driving seat. To extend the
metaphor further, the question would be whether
he controls the steering, accelerator, the gears
and the brakes. If the answer to these questions is 35 in the affirmative, then alone would he be in
 control of the company. In other words, the
 question to be asked in each case would be
 whether the acquirer is the driving force behind
 the company and whether he is the one providing
 motion to the organization. If yes, he is in control
 but not otherwise. In short control means
 effective control." 52. We think that these observations are apposite,
 and apply to the expression "control" in Section
 29A(c)." 26. This Tribunal in Shubhkam held that the word "control" is

a proactive and not a reactive power. That is to say, it is a

positive power and not a negative power. The test of control

was whether the acquirer was in the driving seat and whether

the driver controlled the steering, accelerator, the gears and the

brakes and, if the answer to these questions was in the

affirmative, then alone would he be in control of the company.

The Supreme Court while affirming the decision of this

Tribunal in Shubhkam held that the expression "control"

denotes only positive control and further the word "control" as

contrasted with management means de facto control of actual

management or de facto control of policy decisions. 36 27. Needless to say here, that the definition of the term

"control" in the IBC 2016 is the same/ identical as defined

under Section 2(27) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation

2(1)(c) of the SAST Regulations, 1997. 28. The respondent contended that the definition of "control"

under the SAST Regulations is an inclusive definition. Its wide

sweep will bring within its ambit direct as well as indirect

matters through which control can be acquired and exercised in

a target company. It was urged, that in order to assess whether

control has been acquired, the actual control that the acquirer is

able to exercise in the indirectly acquired company through

intermediary company is to be considered. It was urged, that

the expression "control" in Justice P.N. Bhagwati Committee

Report, 1997 found it prudent to define the word in an inclusive

and wide sense in order for it to cover a wide array of real life

situation where control of a listed company has changed. It was

urged, that the legislative intent was not to provide a straitjacket

definition of control keeping in mind the dynamics of the

securities market and, therefore, the definition of control was

kept open ended and SEBI was granted a discretion to determine

change of control on a case to case basis. In support of his

submission, reliance was made in the decision of Ashwin K. 37 Doshi vs. SEBI in Appeal No. 44 of 2001 decided on October

25, 2002 wherein it was held that the expression "control" is not

of a narrow magnitude and that the Justice P. N. Bhagwati

Committee itself knew about the limitation and that is why it

wanted SEBI to draw its own conclusion through investigation

if necessary. It was further held that a narrow interpretation of

the concept of control would frustrate the object of the Act and

the Regulations. It was thus urged, that the expression "control"

not only includes positive but also negative control and that the

term "control" should be construed accordingly. Reliance was

also made of a decision of the Delhi High Court in Future

Retail Limited vs. Amazon .Com Investment Holdings LLC &

Ors. 2020 SCC Online Delhi 1636 wherein the Delhi High

Court held in the context of certain negative rights prohibiting

sale of assets of the listed company to certain specific entities

holding that the conflation of the three agreements besides

creating protective rights in favour of Amazon for its investment

also transgressed to control over future Retail Ltd. ("FRL"). 29. It was also urged, that reliance of the decision of the

Supreme Court in Arcelormittal India Private Limited is

misplaced in as much as the Supreme Court has interpreted the 38 word "control" in the context of Section 29(A)(c) of IBC 2016,

i.e., the word "control" and "management", as used in the said

section, which would seem to suggest positive or proactive

control as opposed to mere negative or reactive control. It was

also urged, that the decision in Shubhkam was challenged by

SEBI before the Supreme Court which appeal was disposed of

with the clarification that the decision of the Tribunal in

Shubhkam will not be treated as a precedent and that the

question of law would remain open. It was thus urged, that the

decision of this Tribunal in Shubhkam cannot be treated as a

precedent nor can it be relied upon to test the definition of the

expression "control". It was further contended, that the

Supreme Court while disposing of SEBI's appeal in Shubhkam

matter was passed by a three judge bench whereas the decision

in Arcelormittal India Private Limited was passed by a two

judge bench of the Supreme Court. It was suggested that the

judgement of the Supreme Court in Arcelormittal India Private

Limited has not overruled the order of the Supreme Court in

SEBI vs. Shubhkam Ventures (I) P. Ltd. in Civil Appeal No(s).

3371 of 2010 dated November 16, 2011. 30. It was thus urged, that the order of this Tribunal in

Shubhkam cannot be treated as a binding precedent and that the

question on the interpretation of the expression "control" was

left open qua the SAST Regulations. 31. The submission of the respondent in this regard is patently

erroneous and cannot be accepted. The definition of "control"

as defined in Regulation 2(1)(c) of the SAST Regulations, 1997

has been held to be an inclusive one and not exhaustive in

Shubhkam which has been approved by the Supreme Court in

Arcelormittal India Private Limited. The extent of the

expression "control" as given in Shubhkam, namely, positive

and not negative has been approved by the Supreme Court in

Arcelormittal India Private Limited meaning positive control.

In short, the Supreme Court has concluded that the expression

"control" means effective control. 32. No doubt, when SEBI challenged the order of Shubhkam

before the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court while disposing

of the appeal by its order dated November 16, 2011 had clarified

that the order of this Tribunal in Shubhkam will not be treated

as a precedent and the question of law would remain open. To

this extent, there is no dispute but the interpretation of the 40 expression "control" as decided by this Tribunal in Shubhkam

was approved by the Supreme Court in Acrelormittal's case.

Once the decision of this Tribunal has been approved it can be

considered as a precedent for subsequent cases. It can be

considered as a precedent while considering the provision of Regulation 2(1)(c) of the SAST Regulations, 1997. The

directions given by a three judge bench of the Supreme Court or

a two judge bench of the Supreme Court has no relevance to the

issue. There is no conflicting decision of the Supreme Court.

The three judge bench of the Supreme Court only directed that

the order of the Tribunal in Shubhkam will not be treated as a

precedent and the question of law would remain open. This

direction did not deter the two judge bench of the Supreme

Court in approving the decision of this Tribunal in Shubhkam.

Thus, this issue raised by the respondent is wholly misplaced. 33. The submission that an expansive meaning of the word

"control" is required to be considered in view of the Justice P.N.

Bhagwati Committee Report is patently erroneous. Considering

the fact that the expression "control" has been considered and

explained by this Tribunal in Shubhkam which has been duly

affirmed by the Supreme Court in Arcelormittal 's case, it 41 therefore, does not lie in the mouth of the respondent to agitate

that notwithstanding the decision of the Supreme Court, it is still

open for the respondent to contend that the expression "control"

in Regulation 2(1)(c) should be given an expansive meaning

considering the object and purpose of the Act and the

Regulations. Even though, no judgments were placed during

the course of arguments, certain judgments have crept in the

written submissions filed by the respondent. In our opinion,

these judgments on the issue as to how a meaning of a word is

to be discerned through a process of construction is meaningless

in view of the meaning of the expression "control" explained by

the Supreme Court in Arcelormittal 's case. 34. Reliance on the decision of the Delhi High Court in the

case of Future Retail (Supra) is also misplaced. The said

decision is on its own facts and is clearly distinguishable and

not applicable in the instant case. The Delhi High Court was

faced with the question as to whether it was a fit case to grant an

injunction. The Delhi High Court after perusing various clauses

of the agreement prima facie came to a conclusion that it was

not a case for grant of an interim injunction. In our view, the

observations made by the Delhi High Court are only prima facie 42 observations and, in any case, it is not helpful in view of the

Supreme Court decision in Arcelormittal 's case. 35. Consequently, we are of the opinion that it is not necessary

for us to further analyse the term "control" beyond what has

been laid down by the Supreme Court. In this background, we

have to now examine whether the appellant in the facts and

circumstances of the present case had acquired positive control

over the target company so as to trigger Regulation 12 of the

SAST Regulations, 1997. 36. We have carefully gone through each and every clause of

the loan agreements and we find that there is a commercial

rationale behind the entire arrangement. Admittedly, Prannoy

Roy and Radhika Roy, being promoters of NDTV, required

money to pay the loan availed from ICICI Bank Limited.

Through this agreement, we find that if the share price of NDTV

exceeds Rs. 214.65 per equity share, then VCPL could exercise

any of the following option and acquire 26% of the equity

shares of NDTV at a fixed price of Rs. 214.65 per share. The

options that could be exercised were the warrant conversion

option under which 99.99% equity shares of RRPR could be

acquired which would result in indirect acquisition of 26% of 43 the equity shares of NDTV. The same would also result when

VCPL exercises the purchase option to purchase all the equity

shares of RRPR held by Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy at par

value for a nominal amount of Rs. 1 lakh. In addition, VCPL

through its affiliates STPL and SEPL could directly purchase

26% of NDTV at a price of Rs. 214.65 by paying a consolidated

amount of Rs. 350 crores to RRPR (namely, the loan amount)

which amount would be utilized by RRPR to repay the loan to

VCPL. VCPL if interested in the media business of NDTV

could acquire 26% equity shares of NDTV at Rs. 214.65 per

share irrespective of the then prevailing market price. VCPL

risk was restricted to the loss of interest on the loan given. The

contention that since no interest was charged on the loan given,

it was not a loan but an indirect acquisition is erroneous. The

bargain in the agreement has to be understood from a

commercial point of view. This is the upshot of the commercial

rationale in the loan agreement which suited all parties i.e.

VCPL and the promoters of NDTV. 37. In our opinion, none of the aforesaid arrangement entails

an acquisition of shares in NDTV, nor controls the management

or policy decisions of NDTV. So long as the loan remains 44 unpaid, VCPL continues to have the warrant conversion option,

the purchase option and the call option under the call option

agreements. It is a settled position of law that when there are

options with convertibility, unless such options are exercised,

the obligation to make an open offer under Regulation 14 is not

triggered. In the matter of Victor Fernandes vs. Network 18,

the WTM passed an order dated 15 November 2019 holding that

when there are options with convertibility unless such options

are exercised, the obligation to make an open offer is not

triggered. This finding was affirmed by this Tribunal in its

order dated September 28, 2021 passed in Appeal 618 of 2019

Victor Fernandes & Anr. vs. SEBI & Ors . 38. The finding that the price of Rs. 214.65 per share

considered in the loan agreement and the call option agreements

was higher than the prevailing market price at Rs. 130 per share

and, therefore, it leads to a conclusion that the transaction was

one of acquisition of control and was not a loan is misconceived

and cannot be accepted. We find that at one stage the price of

the share went high at Rs. 482 per share. The tenure of the loan

was for a period of 10 years. There was a reasonable

expectation that the price of NDTV shares would go up and,

consequently, the value of the collateral would increase. The 45 bargain in the agreement indicates that if the share price

exceeded the strike price of Rs. 214.65 per share, VCPL could

exercise the option and release the loan. Thus, a shortfall in the

collateral at the beginning of the loan tenure could not be a

reason to conclude that the transaction was one for acquisition

of control. In our opinion, the transaction has to be considered

from a commercial rationale and has to be interpreted in a

businesslike manner. 39. The finding that the warrant conversion option is not

dependent on the repayment of the loan and that it does not

lapse even on the repayment of the loan and, hence, it is a

perpetual warrant conversion option is patently erroneous. In

our opinion, the warrant conversion option, the purchase option

and the call option under the call option agreement are in

consideration for repayment of the loan. From a reading of the

loan agreement and the call option agreements, it is clear that

either the loan has to be repaid or the call option or the

conversion option or the purchase option is exercised. Much

reliance has been placed on the term "thereafter" appearing in

clause (a) of Schedule 1. In our opinion, the word "thereafter"

means that if the loan remains unpaid at the end of the tenure, 46 then VCPL could still be entitled to exercise the warrant

conversion option. In our opinion, it does not mean that the

warrant conversion option could be exercised even after the loan

is extinguished. 40. Two kinds of rights has been acquired by VCPL, namely, (a) over matters relating to RRPR and (b) over matters relating

to NDTV with certain obligations on the promoters of NDTV

and not on NDTV directly. These rights are limited in nature

which we have extracted in paragraph 8 of our order. 41. The rights relating to RRPR and to NDTV required prior

written consent of VCPL. These rights are limited in nature.

Having perused these clauses in the agreement, we are of the

opinion that these rights are only to protect the interest of VCPL

and the investment made by it. These protective rights under

Schedule 3 are meant to ensure standards of good governance

and to protect the interest not only of the shareholders but also

the interest of VCPL. These limited rights are not in the nature

of day to day operational control over the business of NDTV

nor are in the nature of control over the management of NDTV

or policy decisions. If VCPL desires that the particular scheme 47 of arrangement ought to be promulgated or that a particular

acquisition of another company should be effected or that any

suitable course of action ought to be adopted, VCPL has no

right to have the same implemented and, therefore, VCPL does

not have any control over NDTV. The mere fact that

amendment to the memorandum or article of association of

NDTV could not be carried out without the consent of NDTV

does not become an indicator of having control over NDTV. It

is a common practice. We are of the opinion that amendment of

Article and Memorandum of Association of a company does not

fall within the scope of its day to day corporate activity. The

mere fact that an amendment requires an affirmative vote from

the VCPL is only indicative of the fact that it wants to protect its

investment and that the basic structure of the company (i.e.

NDTV) is not altered without its knowledge and approval. By

no stretch of logic, can such an affirmative vote confer positive

or effective control over day to day working of the company.

Similarly, issuance of equity securities, buyback of securities,

reduction or alteration of share capital, creation of any

encumbrance on equity share of RRPR could result in diluting

the rights of VCPL in relation to the collateral and may hamper

the ability of the promoters of NDTV to perform their 48 obligations under the loan agreement and call option

agreements. Similarly, borrowing or raising funds may

jeopardize RRPR's ability to repay the loan extended by VCPL.

Similarly, setting up a subsidiary is not in the interest of VCPL

as it may allow RRPR to divert its money. Therefore, previous

approval is required from VCPL. Such fetters placed is only to

protect the interest of VCPL and does not indicate any direct or

indirect control. 42. The aforesaid clauses as spelt out in the previous

paragraphs does not make VCPL in a position to influence

major policy decisions of NDTV by virtue of its affirmative

vote nor has any say in matters pertaining to policy decision

which would confer control. All these provisions make it clear

that it does not want NDTV to undergo any major shift from its

present position without VCPL's knowledge and approval. In

our opinion, these are protective rights which does not result in

acquisition of control of NDTV. These protective provisions

are meant to ensure standards of good corporate governance.

The aforesaid provision does not in any way control the day to

day operation of the business of the NDTV nor controls the

management or policy decisions of NDTV. The object of each 49 of the above clause as extracted in the previous paragraphs is to

ensure that the promoters of NDTV did not adversely affect the

rights over the collateral or destroy the value of the equity

shares of NDTV, in turn destroying the value of the collateral,

i.e., 26% equity shares of NDTV. Similarly, non-compete

rights, right of first refusal are commonly found in institutional

loan agreements. Such clause, in our opinion does not amount

to acquisition or control over NDTV by VCPL. These clause at

best is an economic protection. If promoters engage in

competing activity, the value of the shares of NDTV could get

eroded. Similarly, non-disposal undertaking is to ensure that the

promoters continue to manage NDTV and remain favoured to

protect the collateral. 43. Similar provisions as stated aforesaid was also examined

in Shubhkam (Supra). This Tribunal while dealing with similar

provisions held that the provision does not result in control

directly or indirectly of the company and that these provisions

are protective provisions. For facility, paragraph 8 of the said

judgment is extracted hereunder:- Having carefully gone through each and every
sub-clause of clause 9, we are of the view that it
means what it says. The various sub-clauses
are meant only to protect the interest of the
acquirer (appellant) and the investment made
by it. When we look to the affirmative voting
rights of the appellant as ensured by this
clause, it becomes more than clear that it does
not want the target company to undergo any
paradigm shift from its present position without
the appellant's knowledge and approval. We
are in agreement with the learned counsel for
the appellant that the protective provisions
under clause 9 are meant to ensure standards of
good corporate governance and to protect the
interests of the shareholders including that of
the appellant from the whims and fancies of the
promoters of the target company. The list of
matters provided in clauses 9(a) to 9(o) are not
in the nature of day to day operational control
over the business of the target company. So
also, they are not in the nature of control over
either the management or policy decisions of
the target company. These provisions merely
enable the acquirer to oppose a proposal and
not carry any proposal on its bidding. For
instance, if the appellant desires that a
particular scheme of arrangement ought to be
promulgated or that a particular acquisition of
another company should be effected or that the
Annual Business Plan should contain a
particular strategy or that any suitable course
of action ought to be adopted, the appellant has
no right to have the same implemented. How
then does the appellant have control over the
target company? The learned counsel for the
respondent laid great emphasis on clause 9(d)
read with clause 15 of the agreement to
contend that the affirmative vote of the investor
director to the approval of the Annual Business
Plan and to any modification therefrom gives a
controlling right to the appellant. He also
referred to clause 9(a) and emphatically urged 54 that since no amendment to the memorandum
or articles of association of the target company
could be made without the affirmative vote from
the appellant, it is a sure indicator of its having
control over the target company. We are unable
to agree with the learned counsel. It is quite
usual for any corporate entity to prepare an
Annual Business Plan to be implemented in the
coming fiscal year and have the same approved
from its board of directors before the
commencement of that year. In the case before
us, the target company also prepares an Annual
Business Plan which lays down broad contours
of the corporate activity to be implemented in
the coming year which is approved by its board
of directors where the appellant is in a
minority. This business plan has to be rolled
out in the coming fiscal year and its day to day
implementation is looked after by the board of
directors. If after approving the plan, the target
company wants to deviate from it or make any
changes therein, the same would require an
affirmative vote from the appellant. We do not
think that this provision gives any control to the
appellant. On the contrary, it only enables the
appellant to safeguard its own investment and
the interests of the shareholders in general.
Amendment of articles and memorandum of
association of a company does not fall within
the scope of its day to day corporate activity.
The mere fact that any such amendment
requires an affirmative vote from the appellant
is again indicative of the fact that it wants to
protect its investment and that the basic
structure of the company is not altered without
its knowledge and approval. By no stretch of
logic, can such an affirmative vote confer
control over the day to day working of the
company. Sh. Kumar Desai learned counsel
laid great emphasis on sub-clause (n) to
contend that no key officer of the target
company like Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Finance Officer, Company Secretary or of
equivalent designation could be appointed 55 without the affirmative vote of the appellant
and this, according to him, vests significant
control in the appellant. Here again, we are
unable to agree with Sh. Desai. It is true that
the affirmative vote of the appellant is required
for the appointment of any of these key officers
but even this provision does not mean that the
appellant can get its candidate appointed.
Affirmative vote of the investor in these matters
is necessary for protecting its investment. We
cannot infer from this provision that the
appellant has gained control over the target
company. 9. Provisions of clause 9 do impose fetters
on the target company for purposes of good
governance and it is conventional for financial
investors to protect their investment and,
indeed, the target company itself from the
whims and fancies of the promoters who
manage the target company. Such fetters fall
far short of the existence of "control" over the
target company. It must be remembered that
every fetter of any nature in the hands of any
person over a listed company cannot result in
"control" of that person over that company. We
also cannot lose sight of the fact that in the
instant case even if the entire open offer is
accepted and 20 per cent shares are tendered,
the appellant would be far short of a simple
majority that is necessary for getting an
ordinary resolution passed. In these
circumstances, we cannot hold that the
appellant has gained control over the target
company. 10. Having gone through the agreement
carefully with the help of the learned counsel
for the parties, we are clearly of the view that
none of the clauses therein taken individually
or collectively demonstrates control in the
hands of the appellant. In this view of the
matter, Regulation 12 does not get triggered 56 and the Board was not justified in making the
 appellant incorporate this regulation in the
 letter of offer. The question posed in the
 opening part of our order is, thus, answered in
 the negative. 44. A contention was raised that Clause 8 of the loan

agreement indicates that the call option will continue to remain

valid even after the repayment of the loan and therefore it

amounts to control. This interpretation is totally erroneous. The

ambiguity created by the words "till the later of" can be cleared

by a simple reading of clause 8 to mean that the agreement shall

be binding on the parties till the loan is fully paid by the

borrower or if the call option is exercised. The word "till the

later of" has to be read "whichever is earlier" in order to bring

out the correct meaning and object of the clause. In any case,

the part relating to call option does not by itself result in indirect

control of NDVT unless it is exercised. 45. The finding in the impugned order that Clause 20 of the

loan agreement does not give any discretion to the promoters of

NDTV with respect to exercise of their voting rights in NDTV

as they would have exercised their voting rights prior to entering

into the loan agreement and, therefore, Clause 20 of the loan

agreement indicates indirect control over NDTV is patently 57 misconceived. In our opinion, Clause 20 is an assurance clause.

It only means that the voting rights of the promoters of RRPR

and NDTV should be exercised to enable VCPL and the option

holders to exercise their rights in terms of the agreement. It is

not a case through which VCPL has acquired voting rights or

control over RRPR or NDTV. Clause 20 is only to protect

VCPL rights under the agreements. In any case, we are of the

firm view that this clause does not result in VCPL acquiring

direct control over RRPR or indirect control over NDTV. 46. The finding in the impugned order that the borrowers and

promoters have in fact ceded their voting rights atleast, by 26%

covered in the loan agreement and another 26% covered in the

call option agreement upon the execution of these agreements is

patently erroneous. The finding that upon the execution of these

agreements the exercise of voting rights in NDTV was

controlled by the terms of the transaction documents is wholly

erroneous. The finding that through these documents VCPL had

acquired control over 52% of NDTV shares is nothing but a

figment of its imagination and against the material evidence on

record. These loan agreement/ call option agreements can only

acquire 26% equity shares of NDTV by VCPL and the finding 58 that VCPL has acquired 52% of NDTV shares is not based on

any cogent evidence nor does this transaction allow VCPL to

acquire direct or indirect control over NDTV. 47. The learned senior counsel for the appellant placed heavy

reliance on a decision of this Tribunal dated 28.09.2021 in Victor Fernandes vs. SEBI & Ors. in Appeal No. 618 of 2019

contending that the controversy in squarely covered by the said

decision . In this regard, the brief facts in the said matter is, that

on 22.11.2011, a deed of Trust was executed under which

Independent Media Trust ("IMD") was established as a Trust.

Nirlab Consultancy Pvt. Ltd. (NCPL) (controlled by Raghav

Bahl) was a trustee and Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) was the

sole beneficiary. On 23.11.2011, IMT entered into a Single

Unit Agreement (SUA) with Raghav Bahl, five entities

controlled by Raghav Bahl and NW18. As per the SUA, the

parties thereto were to act as the shareholders of NW18. On

27.02.2012, an Investment Agreement, namely, Zero Coupon,

Optionally & Fully Convertible Debentures Agreement

('ZOCD') was executed between six private limited companies

and holding companies owned by Raghav Bahl and IMT.

Under this ZOCD Agreement, IMT was to invest funds received 59 from RIL by subscribing to the ZOCD of the holding companies

and the holding companies were obliged to utilize ZOCD

subscription amount for subscribing to the rights issue of NW18

and TV18. 48. In accordance with the terms of the ZOCD agreement, the

holding company deployed Rs. 2076.34 crore from the proceeds

of the ZOCD issuance to subscribe to 69,21,11,850 equity

shares of NW18 and the balance of Rs. 135.46 crore were used

to subscribe to 6,77,31,686 equity shares of TV18. In this way

the holding companies represented 71.25% of the emerging

voting capital of NW18. 49. A complaint was filed alleging that IMT which is for the

benefit of RIL had acquired control over the holding companies

and consequently acquired indirect control over NW18 and

TV18. The complaint alleged that on the basis of SUA and

ZOCD, RIL had failed to disclose various events relating to

IMT under Clause 36 of the listing agreement. 50. The clauses of the agreements was analysed as under:- As on date of execution of the ZOCD
 agreement, IMT had only one trustee viz. Nirlab
 Consultancy Pvt. Ltd. The said trustee company
 was wholly owned and controlled by Raghav
 Bahl and his wife. The 6 holding companies
 were also wholly owned by Raghav Bahl and his
 wife. Therefore, IMT was ultimately controlled
 by Raghav Bahl who was also in control of
 NW18 at the time of ZOCD Agreement. In these
 circumstances, under the ZOCD agreement,
 there was no change in control of the 6 holding
 companies and even indirectly of the Target Co. (iii) Clause 2.1 of the ZOCD agreement itself
 discloses that the purpose for infusion was to
 enable the 6 holding companies to subscribe to
 rights issue of NW18 and TV18. The provision
 stating that if the actual amount required by the
 six holding companies for subscribing to the
 rights issue is more than the amount estimated
 earlier by them, then IMT shall remit such
 difference to them and if it is less than the
 amount estimated earlier, then the holding
 companies will refund the difference to IMT,
 might have been on account of the fact that price
 at which rights issue had not been crystallized at
 the time of entering into the ZOCD agreement. It
 is customary for lenders to specify the object for
 which the loan amount is to be utilized. (iv). Clause 6.1 is a stand still clause which is not
 unusual in such transactions. The object of the
 clause is to ensure that the holding companies
 conduct their business in the ordinary course of
 business for the limited period between the date
 of the agreement and the date on which ZOCDs
 are actually allotted and to prevent the affairs of
 the company from being managed in a manner 61 which would be detrimental to the interest of the
 investor in the interim period. (v). Clauses 9, 11, 14.1 and 14.2 are in nature of
 conferring certain pre-emptive rights, restrictions
 on share transfer in favour of the person infusing
 the funds (IMT i.e. Respondent No. 2). It has
 consistently been held by this Hon'ble Tribunal
 and also SEBI that such clauses per se do not
 result in any change in control. (vi). Clause 12.1 of the ZOCD dealing with
 confidentiality/non-disclosure is a usual clause
 in such loan agreements. In so far as disclosure
 to the Regulatory Authority is concerned, the
 execution of ZOCD was made known to the
 Exchanges and was in the public domain. Further, various documents referred to in draft
 Letter of offer for acquisition of shares of
 NW18, including the ZOCD agreement was
 submitted to SEBI. On receipt of the Complaint
 filed by Appellant, SEBI had re-examined its
 content and reached the conclusion similar as to
 those as set out herein. (vii). Clauses 7.1, 13.1 and 14.3 of the ZOCD
 agreement are not in the nature of granting rights
 which enable IMT to proactively control the
 affairs and policies of the target Co. These are
 the provisions relating to 6 holding companies
 (not to the target Co.) and contain certain
 negative stipulations relating to conduct of
 business of 6 holding companies. Such clauses
 are used in regular loan agreement. (viii). Further, as specified in Regulation 2(1)(e) of the
 SAST Regulations, SEBI has uniformly
 regarded the following 2 indicia to denote
 control: i. Right to appoint majority of directors;
 ii. Right to control policy of management
 decision of Target Co. (ix). On analyzing various clauses of ZOCD and the
 nature of the rights granted to IMT, it is noted
 that the aforesaid indicia of control are absent. It
 is also found that the various clauses of ZOCD
 agreement are predominantly in the nature of
 granting protective rights for the investment
 made by IMT (Respondent No. 2). (x). Pursuant to the examination of all the relevant
 documents, it had been concluded by SEBI that
 IMT had indirectly acquired joint control over
 NW18 not by way of the ZOCD Agreement
 dated February 27, 2012, but even before that by
 way of the Single Unit Agreement dated
 November 23, 2011 whereby IMT along with
 the holding companies of NW18 and other
 promoters of NW18 had agreed to act as a single
 unit in managing the matters of NW18 and
 acquired the right to appoint the majority of the
 board of directors of NW18. Thus IMT
 (Respondent No. 2) was part of the promoter
 group, however this fact was not included in any
 disclosure made under SAST Regulations/
 clause 35 of the Listing agreement made to the
 exchanges." 51. After analyzing various clauses of the agreement, the

WTM held:- 52. The order of the WTM was affirmed by this Tribunal in

Appeal No. 618 of 2019 filed by Victor Fernandes and Anr.

Vs. SEBI decided on 28.09.2021 wherein this Tribunal held:- 14. In our view, the reasoning of the learned WTM
 cannot be faulted with. The ZOCD Agreement was
 in the nature of investment by IMT in the holding
 companies ofTV18, NW18. Said ZOCD Agreement
 had given right to IMT, the subscriber of the
 ZOCDs to convert ZOCDs into equity in a given
 period. The control of TV18 and NW18, continued
 with Mr. Raghav Bahl and his entities. IT had no
 say in the voting rights etc. and, therefore, the
 conclusion of the learned WTM cannot be faulted
 with." 53. We have perused the order of WTM in Victor Fernandes

and we find that the terms and conditions in the ZOCD

agreement is similar and more or less the same as given in the

present loan agreement. The issue in Victor Fernandes was

whether the ZOCD agreement triggered the open offer 68 obligation under the SAST Regulations. The WTM upon

analyzing various provisions of the agreement (which is similar

to the provisions in the loan agreement) held that upon

execution of the ZOCD agreement, the control of NW18

remained with Raghav Bahl, nor the ZOCD agreement stifled

the voting rights of Raghav Bahl and therefore there was no

effective change in control of NW18 as a result of execution of

the ZOCD agreement and therefore the ZOCD agreement does

not trigger an open offer. We are of the opinion, that the

controversy involved in the present appeal is squarely covered

by the decision in Victor Fernandes case. 54. It may be stated here that no arguments were raised by the

learned senior counsel for the respondent with regard to the

effect of Victor Fernandes case. We however find that ten

paragraphs has been devoted in the written submissions in

making an attempt to distinguish Victor Fernanes case. In this

regard, this Tribunal has issued a circular dated 19.04.2022

directing that all written submissions/ brief notes or any kind of

submissions made on behalf of any parties filed after conclusion

of the hearing shall be vetted by the arguing counsel and the

same shall be disclosed in the written submissions. In the 69 instant case, the written submissions filed by the respondent has

not been vetted by the arguing counsel. Consequently, it is not

open nor worthwhile to deal with such contentions raised in the

written submissions which were not argued. In any case, the

order in Victor Fernandes, based on SAST Regulations, is fully

applicable in the instant case. 55. We may also note that in the recent past, a tendency has

arisen to file compilation of judgments which are not referred to

in the arguments. Further contentions are raised for the first

time in the written submissions which was never raised /argued

by the counsel. Such practice adopted is depreciated and parties

are advised to file the written submissions which contains only

their oral submissions argued by their counsel. 56. Thus, upon a careful reading of various clauses in the

agreements, we are of the opinion, that various clauses are

meant to protect the interest of VCPL and the investment made

by it. The transaction in the agreement is an amalgamation of

rights. It is a loan transaction with an option to acquire 26%

equity shares of NDTV as consideration for the provision of the

loan. However, the transaction does not justify as being a

control transaction. The transaction does not acquire direct or 70 indirect control of NDTV. The intent and language of the loan

agreement and call option agreements read with the SAST

Regulations makes it clear that there is no direct or indirect

control of NDTV by VCPL. The transaction structure does not

lead to a conclusion that VCPL has acquired direct or indirect

control over NDTV. 57. We are further of the opinion that the impugned order does

not establish how each of the rights, either individually or

collectively have led VCPL to acquire indirect control over

NDTV. No evidence has come to light to indicate that VCPL is

exercising control over the management or policies of NDTV.

In the absence of any evidence, the impugned order passed by

the WTM cannot be sustained. In our view, the combined

reading of the agreement, call option agreements, warrant

conversion option and the purchase option does not in any way

lead to a conclusion of VCPL acquiring indirect control over

NDTV. Thus the direction to VCPL to make an open offer in

terms of Regulation 44 of SAST Regulations, 1997 and Regulation 32 of SAST Regulations, 2011 does not arise. 58. Appeal Nos. 294 of 2019, 295 of 2019 and 296 of 2019

has been filed by Dr. Prannoy Roy, Radhika Roy and RRPR 71 respectively against the order dated June 14, 2019 passed by the

WTM. In addition to the aforesaid, Appeal Nos. 77 of 2021, 78

of 2021 and 79 of 2021 has been filed by PR, RR and RRPR

respectively against the order dated December 24, 2020 passed

by the AO. All these six appeals raise a common issue and are

being taken up together. 59. The facts leading to the filing of the aforesaid appeals is

that a complaint dated August 26, 2017 and December 26, 2017

and representation dated December 24, 2017 was filed by

Quantum Securities Private Limited who is a shareholder of

NDTV alleging that PR, RR and RRPR have failed to disclose

material information to the shareholders of NDTV regarding the

loan agreement entered with VCPL and, consequently, have

violated of the provisions to the Act, Rules and Regulations. 60. Based on the aforesaid complaint, an investigation was

carried out in which it was revealed that PR, RR and RRPR did

not disclose the loan agreement with ICICI Bank, and the loan

agreement with VCPL, to the company, to the stock exchange

and to the shareholders. Accordingly, a show cause notice was

issued alleging that these persons, by concealing material

evidence, have committed a fraud on the minority shareholders 72 and, therefore, violated Section 12A of the SEBI Act and

Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations and Clause

49(I)(D) of the Listing Agreement read with Section 21 of the

SCRA. 61. The appellants replied contending that the loan agreements

were private loan agreements which was not required to be

disclosed and that the board meeting of NDTV held on August

05, 2015 had clarified that there was no change in control of

NDTV. Further at the relevant time, there was no requirement

to make disclosure in respect of the loan agreement. It was also

urged, that such alleged violation of non-disclosure cannot be

raised after 10 years and, therefore there is an inordinate delay

in the initiation of the proceedings. It was also contended that

Clause 49(I)(D) of the Listing Agreement came into effect only

in the year 2014 and, therefore there was no requirement to

make a disclosure of an event happening before 2014. It was

contended that at the relevant time the only requirement on the

company was to have a Code of Conduct and that there was no

requirement for the appellants to disclose the loan agreements to

the Board of the company. The appellants vehemently denied

that there was any fault on their part nor was any fraud

committed by them. 62. The WTM, after considering the material evidence on

record, held that the present proceedings were initiated on the

basis of the complaint received on August 26, 2017 based on

which the show cause notice was issued in the year 2018.

Hence there is no delay, quite apart there is no period of

limitation prescribed in initiating proceedings under the SEBI

Act , Rules and Regulations. The WTM after considering

various clauses of the loan agreement came to a conclusion that

it was not a loan agreement but under the garb of the loan

agreement the acts of the appellants amounted to commissions

of a fraud upon the shareholders. The WTM held that upon a

scrutiny of various clauses of the loan agreement, the appellants

have effectively transferred 30% of the shares of NDTV to

VCPL and that the transactions have been deliberately

structured as a loan transaction so as to conceal the said sale of

30% stake in NDTV. The WTM further found that the loan

agreement structure was material and very sensitive information

which was concealed from the minority shareholders, thereby

inducing the investors to trade in the shares of NDTV in

ignorance regarding de facto control over NDTV by VCPL and,

therefore such transaction has been made under Section 12A and Regulation 3(a) to (d) of the PFUTP Regulations. The 74 WTM further found that the appellants had violated the Code of

Conduct. The disclosures were required to be made under the

Code of Conduct and by not making disclosures the appellants

conduct was not in accordance with the Code of Conduct. 63. On the basis of the aforesaid, the WTM accordingly

restrained the appellants from accessing the securities market

and further prohibited them to buy, sell or otherwise deal

directly or indirectly or being associated with the securities

market in any manner for a period of two years. The appellants

PR and RR were also restrained from holding or occupying any

position as Director or as Key Managerial Personnel in NDTV

for a period of two years and further were restrained from

holding or occupying any position as Director or as Key

Managerial Personnel in any other listed company for a period

of one year. On a similar finding, the AO in its order of

December 24, 2020 imposed a maximum penalty of Rs. 25

crores under Section 15HA to be paid jointly and severally by

the appellants and a further sum of Rs. 1 crore to be paid by PR

and RR under Section 23H of the SCRA. 64. We have heard Ms. Fereshte Sethna, the learned counsel

for the appellants and Shri Shyam Mehta, the learned senior

counsel for the respondent. 65. In Appeal No. 293 of 2018 in the matter of VCPL, we

have already held that the loan agreement did not in any manner

transfer control of NDTV to VCPL either directly or indirectly.

Thus, the findings given by the WTM upon reading the clauses

of the loan agreement does not survive. 66. Further, the finding that the concealment of the loan

agreement which gave de facto control to VCPL was concealed

from the shareholders and, therefore, such arrangement

deployed by the appellants to transfer their substantial stake in

NDTV was fraudulent and was violative of 12A(a) to (b) of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3(a) to (d) of the PFUTP

Regulations also cannot survive since we have already held that

there was no direct or indirect control over NDTV by VCPL.

Further, the finding that the loan agreements were material and

price sensitive information in nature on account of de facto

control of VCPL is again erroneous as we have already held that

there was no de facto control of VCPL on NDTV. 76 67. The only question that remains to be considered is,

whether the appellants failed to disclose the loan agreement

under Clause 49 of the listing agreement. It was contended by

the appellants that Clause 49 (I)(D) of the listing agreement

came into effect from the year 2014 and, therefore there was no

requirement to make a disclosure in respect of the loan

agreements made earlier in the year 2009. This contention is

erroneous in as much as we find that vide SEBI Circular dated

February 21, 2000 Clause 49 was introduced as under:- Explanation: For this purpose, the term
 "senior management" shall mean personnel
 of the company who are members of its core
 management team excluding Board of
 Directors.. Normally, this would comprise
 all members of management one level below
 the executive directors, including all
 functional heads." Under Clause 49 of the listing agreement, the board was

required to lay down the Code of Conduct for all Board

members and senior management of the company. We find that

NDTV had its Code of Conduct in place during the relevant

period. Relevant extract of the said Code of Conduct is

extracted hereunder:- 68. As per the Code of Conduct, the Board members and

senior management of NDTV were expected to comply with all

applicable Laws, Rules and Regulations and engage in and

promote honest and ethical conduct which is free from fraud or

deception. Further, the Board members were required to make

full disclosure of all facts and circumstances before making any

investment or business arrangement which might create or

appear to create a conflict of interest. Admittedly, the loan

agreement is nothing else but an investment which was required

to be disclosed under the Code of Conduct. Such non-

disclosure, however, in our opinion is neither fraudulent nor

found to be an unfair trade practice. Without going into the

contention as to whether the loan agreement created a conflict of 79 personal interest with the interest of NDTV, we are satisfied that

the appellants were required to disclose the loan agreement

under the Code of Conduct in terms of Clause 49(I)(D) of the

listing agreement especially when PR and RR were the

Chairman and Managing Director of NDTV respectively. 69. Considering the aforesaid violation of the Code of

Conduct, the order of the WTM restraining them from accessing

the securities market or from accepting any position of a

Director is totally out of context and does not commensurate

with the alleged violation especially when no fraud has been

committed nor does the loan agreement defraud the investors.

The imposition of penalty of Rs. 25 crores by the AO is also

high, excessive and disproportionate to the alleged violation.

We find that the AO while considering the factors under Section

25J has noted that the quantifiable gain or unfair advantage

accrued to NDTV or extent of loss suffered by the investors as a

result of the default cannot be computed. In the absence of any

quantification, we are of the opinion, that in the absence of any

concealment or causing fraud to the investors or to the minority

shareholders, the violation of Clause 49 of the listing agreement

only invites a penalty. Considering the factors brought on 80 record, we reduce the penalty from Rs. 25 Crores to Rs. 5

Crores. Misc. Applications are disposed of accordingly. 70. Appeal No. 80 of 2021 has been filed by NDTV against

the order dated December 29, 2020 passed by the AO imposing

a penalty of Rs. 5 Crores under Section 23E of the SCRA for

violation of Clause 36 of the listing agreement. 71. The brief facts leading to the filing of the present appeal

is, that an article was published in Moneylife on June 09, 2015

which carried a headline "who really owns NDTV". Based on

this article, the stock exchange sought clarification from NDTV

on June 11, 2015. NDTV submitted a reply on June 12, 2015

contending that there was no change in the control of the

management of NDTV and that the promoters continued to hold

the majority shareholding. This information given to the stock

exchange was disseminated by the stock exchange on its

platform to all investors. Subsequently, the Board of Directors

passed a resolution on August 05, 2015 recording the statement

of Prannoy Roy that there was no change in the control of the

management of NDTV. 72. A show cause notice was issued upon a prima facie

satisfaction being arrived at that the loan agreement executed by

RRPR with VCPL was a material and price sensitive

information which fact was disclosed in the minutes of the

Board of Directors on August 05, 2015 for the first time and

such information ought to have been disclosed under Clause 36

of the listing agreement. NDTV contended that they are not

party to the loan agreements and, therefore, there was no

obligation on the part of NDTV to make a disclosure either in

2009-2010 when the loan agreement was executed or even in

2015 the when same was discussed in the Board's minutes of

August 05, 2015. It was contended that the loan agreement

executed by the promoters with VCPL was not a material event

to be disclosed under Clause 36(7) of the listing agreement and

that such requirement only became mandatory w.e.f. August 07,

2019. 73. The AO after analyzing various clauses of the loan

agreement came to a conclusion that the loan agreement with

VCPL transferred substantial stakes in NDTV owned by the

promoter at a prenegotiated price as consideration and that the

promoters gave up 30% of their voting rights which was a

material as well as a price sensitive information which was 82 required to be disclosed to the stock exchange. The AO further

found that NDTV became aware of this loan agreement on

August 05, 2015 when the matter was discussed by the Board of

Directors and such information was required to be disclosed

under Clause 36 of the listing agreement. 74. We have heard Shri P.N. Modi, the learned senior counsel

for the appellant and Shri Shyam Mehta, the learned senior

counsel for the respondent. 75. As we have already held in Appeal No. 293 of 2018 the

loan agreement executed by the promoters with VCPL did not

transfer control of NDTV to VCPL either directly or indirectly

and, therefore, the findings given by the AO on the issue that the

loan agreement is structured in such a way that in fact it

transfers control to VCPL indirectly cannot be sustained. The

findings in this regard are set aside. 76. The question which needs to be decided is, whether the

minutes and the contents of the minutes of August 05, 2015 of

the Board of Directors of NDTV was required to be disclosed 83 under Clause 36 of the listing agreement. For facility, Clause

36 of the listing agreement is extracted hereunder. 77. A perusal of Clause 36 of the listing agreement provides

for a company to inform the exchange on immediate basis of all

events which will have a bearing on the performance/ operations

of the company as well as price sensitive information. In the

instant case, the AO has found that the information relating to

VCPL loan agreements were material and price sensitive in

nature on account of de facto control by VCPL. We have

already held that there was no de facto control of VCPL on

NDTV and, therefore, on this short ground the finding that the

contents of the loan agreements were price sensitive in nature

cannot be sustained. However, considering the peculiar

structure of the loan agreement, coupled with the fact that the

exercise of the warrant option or the call option if invoked

would have a bearing on the performance/ operations of the

company and therefore, to that extent, when the matter was

discussed in the minutes of the Boards' meeting on August 05,

2015, the said minutes should have been disclosed under Clause

36 of the listing agreement. Such disclosure would enable the

shareholders and the public to take a informed decision on the

investment or disinvestment in the securities of NDTV. 86 78. It was urged, that it was not a material event or

information which required disclosure under Clause 36 of the

listing agreement. This Tribunal in ICICI Bank Limited vs.

SEBI decided on 08.07.2020 in Appeal No. 583 of 2019 has

held that when in doubt as to whether a particular event is

material or not warranting disclosure under Clause 36 of the

listing agreement the way out is to disclose in order to avoid any

violation. This Tribunal held:- 79. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that NDTV by

not disclosing the minutes of the meeting dated August 05, 2015

to the stock exchange violated Clause 36 of the listing

agreement. 80. A penalty of Rs. 5 Crores have been imposed under

Section 23E read with Section 23(I) of the SCRA. For facility,

the said provisions are extracted hereunder:- 81. In Suzlon Energy Limited this Tribunal has held that

Section 23E has nothing to do with the violation of Clause 36 of

the listing agreement. This Tribunal held:- 82. The penalty that can be imposed for violation of Clause 36

of the listing agreement is under Section 23A(a). For facility,

the said provision is also extracted hereunder:- 83. Thus, while confirming the order of the AO only with

regard to the violation of the Clause 36 of the listing agreement

we find that the penalty of Rs. 5 Crores is excessive. A

maximum penalty of Rs. 1 Crore could be imposed under

Section 23A(a). In the given facts and circumstances of the

case, and considering the factors involved under Section 23J of

the SCRA is concerned, we find that the AO himself has held

that the quantifiable gain or unfair advantage accrued to NDTV

or extent of loss suffered by the investors as a result of the

default cannot be computed. Consequently, the penalty for

mere violation of non-disclosure under Clause 36 of the listing

agreement cannot be penalized to the maximum amount quoted

in the provision. Considering the facts and circumstances, we

are of the opinion that the penalty of Rs. 5 Crores is reduced to

Rs. 10 lakhs under Section 23A(a) of the SCRA. 90 84. In view of the aforesaid, the impugned order dated June

26, 2018 passed by the WTM in Appeal No. 293 of 2018 VCPL

vs. SEBI cannot be sustained and is quashed. The appeal is

allowed with no order as to costs. 85. While affirming the finding of violation of Clause

49(I)(D) of the listing agreement in the impugned order dated

June 14, 2019 passed by the WTM in Appeal Nos. 294 of 2019,

295 of 2019 and 296 of 2019 and order dated December 24,

2020 passed by the AO in Appeal Nos. 77 of 2021, 78 of 2021

and 79 of 2021 the penalty of Rs. 25 Crores is reduced to

Rs. 5 Crores. Accordingly, the directions given by the WTM

being excessive is set aside. Since a penalty has been imposed,

we do not see any reason to issue any further direction under Section 11 , 11B of the SEBI Act. The appeals are partly

allowed with no order as to costs. 86. Appeal No. 80 of 2021 NDTV vs. SEBI against the order

dated December 29, 2020 passed by the AO is partly allowed.

The violation of Clause 36 of the listing agreement is upheld.

However, the penalty of Rs. 5 Crores is reduced to

Rs. 10 lakhs. In the circumstances of the case, all parties shall 91 bear their own costs. All the Misc. Applications are disposed of

accordingly. 87. This order will be digitally signed by the Private Secretary

on behalf of the bench and all concerned parties are directed to

act on the digitally signed copy of this order. Certified copy of

this order is also available from the Registry on payment of

usual charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member
 RAJALA Digitally signed
 by RAJALAKSHMI

20.07.2022 KSHMI HDate: