SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Raj Thackeray’s MNS ventured into the PVR Icon in Pune and thrashed and abused the manager for selling F&amp;B at high [p]rices
DATE: 2018-07-04
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8w17ht/raj_thackerays_mns_ventured_into_the_pvr_icon_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Video Link:

https://youtu.be/PoOuJGLsC4w

https://youtu.be/heMq2Zsh2MQ

Relevant news:

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/spotlight/multiplexes-condemn-attack-by-mns/articleshow/64813683.cms

On Wednesday, the Bombay High Court called out the exorbitant prices of food at multiplexes in the state and directed the Maharashtra government to file an affidavit on what steps it plans to take on regulating the prices, within four weeks.
However, a day after this, party workers of Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) ventured into the PVR Icon at Senapati Bapat Road and thrashed and abused the manager of the multiplex for selling F&amp;B at high prices. While the Pune police have arrested six people, including former corporator Kishor Shinde, the incident has invited backlash from the multiplex owners as well as the Retail Association of India that have condemned the act and called for justice.

In a statement, the Retail Association of India (RAI) said that such incidents “are against the law, disrupt business and endanger the lives of retail employees”. On the other hand, Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, stated, “Safety and security of our employees and of our patrons are of utmost importance to us and we take all adequate measures to secure our employees and patrons.”

The Bombay HC order comes following a petition that called for allowing outside food into cinema halls citing exorbitant prices of food sold inside. In an earlier interaction with us, many multiplex owners had cited that their business comes from F&amp;B sales. On these lines, a spokesperson from a multiplex chain from the state shared on condition of anonymity that they would oblige if the government directs them to regulate prices, but physical harm to people who work hard to earn a living is totally uncalled for. “Prices of food are high at airports. 

Moreover, if you go to a regular hotel and a five star hotel, the prices of the same food item will be poles apart. Would you go and thrash employees at these places too? We are open to discussing the issue, but thrashing an employee for no fault of his is ridiculous,” says the spokesperson.

Speaking to us about their investigation, D S Shinde, police sub inspector from the Chaturshrungi police station, who is investigating the case, said, “The multiplex authorities said that they serve popcorn made using superior corn, which is of export quality. They use corn instead of jowar which is used at some other places. The size of the popcorn is also much bigger. Hence the high price.”
The police are making sure that such an incident won’t happen again. Dayanand Dhome, senior police inspector at Chaturshrungi police station, said, “Our staff is patrolling areas under our jurisdiction that have multiplexes. We will take action against miscreants.”

*Safety and security of our employees and of our patrons are of utmost importance to us and we take all adequate measures to secure our employees and patrons. Handling unlawful action, violence and maintaining law and order in the city is the responsibility of the state government and state police. We have full confidence in the state government and police, we are working with them closely so that appropriate next steps can be taken in this matter at the soonest.* — Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas

*We will be visiting all multiplexes in city and after inspecting prices we will submit applications asking them to reduce food prices. If prices are not reduced, then we will again protest in ‘MNS style’. The public is bearing the brunt of these exorbitant prices. If the local governing body can’t do anything about it, we will take the matter in our hands.* — Sudhir Dhawade, president (Kothrud Division), MNS

*We understand if the state can’t permit the public to carry food from home. But, then why can’t it step in and regulate the prices of food sold inside the cinema theatres.* — Bombay HC, in their directive to the Maharashtra government

*“As per my knowledge, we haven’t received any applications from multiplexes seeking security. However, if there is any demand after this incident, we will provide the same to them.”* — Ravindra Kadam, joint commissioner, Pune Police