SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Friendly reminder that education doesn't make you smart: vain IITians getting scammed
DATE: 2018-06-03
SCORE: 109
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8o98wq/friendly_reminder_that_education_doesnt_make_you/

--- POST TEXT ---

Some of my friends from one of the old IITs have invested in Qnet: a proliferating pyramid scheme masquerading as e-commerce MLM business. I wouldn't argue with them, no, for they have told me that it's a calculated investment. 'Hum chutiye nahi hain, IIT se hain'. 

These scammers target insecurities and psychological vulnerabilities of fellow humans. No matter how much high IQ you have, you get blinded by the promises and prospects of such a 'business'. I identified two such vulnerabilities of my friends graduating from the reputed institutes.

 First vulnerability is that an average IITian will seldom have his dreams fulfilled. The admission is based on the dreams of either high salary or high prestige. These dreams were nurtured by himself or his parents (which really throws light on the media's sensational practices; highlighting only high salaries, thus skewing expectations). Naturally when the average salary is 8 LPA, it leaves many graduates wanting in terms of money. (Note: not all IITians are like that, but it's the representative of the average. I have also met some really exceptional people there.) 

Second vulnerability is a weakness which is also found in common population: a high disregard for working as an employee and a strong wish of becoming a self-employed boss-of-myself businessman. A common theme is that to build something great, you have to have a huge sum of money (at the scale of crores of rupees). With a good dose of jealousy induced from fb watching his batch-mates touring Europe and South Asia, and living a luxurious life, a distraught person seeks to make money as quickly as possible.

Don't get me wrong; I don't mean that such people are selfish. Far from it. I have seen among such friends a relatively higher drive towards doing something big for the society, and of brining good in this world. Their fault actually lies in their vanity: that they are among the most best of the country, and so their analysis is fault proof.

 MLMs like QNet have evolved with the changing laws, it takes a really good reflection and research before concluding that economically it really is a pyramid scheme (there are non-pyramid schemed valid MLMs too, but not this one). However a shallow analysis might lead you to believe that it is the next big thing. For them, vanity led to a blind fold on eyes preventing them from thinking more deeply. Sprinkle some sense of exclusivity (telling them that really smart people like those working in Google are also involved), "there is not much to lose", a history of being a rebel and a anti-conformist, and something to boost to his ego--you got a good recipe for scamming an IITian.

 My aim of this post is to appeal to our younger generation that it's not the college or the marks which makes anyone stand apart meaningfully. You might not be at a relatively good place after a short run (birth to college), but it doesn't matter, you could still be easily at the top in the long run.

PS: I have also been victim of a scam once, but lost Rs 500, not Rs 2-3 lacs. These guys may earn in crores through this scheme, but it will be considered as a stolen money.