Conglomeration of these cases arises out of crimes registered

against the petitioners on account of sting operations conducted by

the media. Since all these petitions bring up a common challenge

to sting operations so conducted and consequently the offences so

alleged, they are taken up together and considered by this order. 22 The only variation would be the incidence and registration of crime,

or the crime as the case would be. But, one stream that runs

through the entire challenge is veracity of sting operation. In the

light of the incidents being different, I deem it appropriate to

narrate brief facts in each case. Criminal Petitions Nos. 7430 of 2022, 7431 of 2022, 7473 of
2022 and Writ Petition No.15582 of 2022: All the aforesaid facts pertaining to afore-quoted petitions

both criminal petitions and writ petitions are arising out of a solitary

fact and a solitary crime in Crime No.60 of 2022.

Writ Petition No.10825 of 2023: Writ Petition No.10549 of 2023: Writ Petition No.10676 of 2023: Writ Petition No.10313 of 2023: Petitioners are accused Nos. 1, 2 and 3. The issue remains the

same about conduct of sting operation in the office of the Assistant

Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Enforcement), Madikeri on 16-

11-2022 and 19-11-2022. The allegation is demand of illegal

gratification and the offence alleged is one punishable under Section 7(c) of the Act. Writ Petition No.10585 of 2023: 11-2022. Writ Petition No.10363 of 2023: 2022. Writ Petition No.10335 of 2023: Petitioners are accused Nos. 1 and 2. The issue remains the same 27 about conduct of sting operation in the office of the Additional

Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Enforcement), Koramangala.

The allegation is demand of illegal gratification and the offence

alleged is the one punishable under Section 7(c) of the Act. 10. Thus, the aforesaid two batches of petitions concern two

instances of sting operation - one on the traffic wing of the

jurisdictional police stations at Bangalore and the other at the

offices of the Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes or Assistant

Commissioner of Commercial Taxes of the Commercial Tax

Department of the State of Karnataka. The offences alleged in all

are the ones punishable under Section 7(a) , (b) & (c) and 12 of the

Act. 11. Heard Sri Sandesh J. Chouta, learned senior counsel

appearing for the petitioners in few of the cases; Sri M.S. Bhagwat,

learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners in few other

cases; Sri D.R.Ravishankar, learned senior counsel appearing for

the petitioners in W.P.No.15582 of 2022; Sri B.B. Patil, learned

Special Public prosecutor appearing for the Karnataka Lokayukta 28 and Sri. Srikanth Patil.K., learned counsel appearing for respondent

No.2/Sri.K.N.Jagadish Kumar in some of the cases. 12. The learned senior counsel Sri Sandesh J.Chouta, Sri M.S.

Bhagwat and Sri D.R.Ravishankar appearing for the petitioners in

different petitions would all in unison contend that registration of

crime is illegal without it being in compliance with Section 17A of

the Act, as for registration of crime, prior approval would be

required to conduct investigation except in cases of trap. According

to the learned senior counsel, in all these cases, the offence cannot

be construed to be a trap, as there is no demand and acceptance.

What is aired is an alleged sting operation which allegedly depicts

demand of illegal gratification which would not mean that it is a

trap laid by the Lokayukta. It is a fact narrated by someone else in

the electronic media which becomes ingredient of the complaint.

Therefore, it cannot be construed to be a trap but can be construed

to be proceedings under Section 7 for which prior approval under Section 17A is imperative. Learned senior counsel Sri M.S. Bhagwat

who appears for the petitioners in all the cases concerning sting

operations in the Commercial Tax Department has laid an additional 29 ground that in terms of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation)

Act, 1995 ('the 1995 Act' for short) the Government has issued

certain guidelines pursuant to the judgment of the High Court of

Delhi for conducting sting operations. He would contend that

registration of crime in all these cases is illegal on two grounds -

one, for want of prior approval under Section 17A of the Act and the

other for violation of guidelines issued under the 1995 Act. 13. On the other hand, Sri B.B. Patil, learned counsel

representing the respondent/Karnataka Lokayukta in all these cases

would contend that it does amount to a trap and, therefore, Section

17A of the Act need not be complied with prior to registration of

crime. All the petitioners have been caught red-handed while

demanding illegal gratification not by the Lokayukta Police but by

sting operations conducted by various Television Channels and they

are broadcasted in those channels which are in public domain. If

this cannot become ingredient of Section 7 (a) , (b) or (c) and 12 of

the Act, he would submit that nothing else can. It is his submission

that it would become a mockery of law to the public. He would

contend that the 1995 Act would bind the channels who have 30 broadcasted the sting operation. Those submissions would not be

applicable to the Lokayukta as independently crimes are registered

suo motu in cases concerning Commercial Tax Department and on a

complaint in cases concerning Traffic Police. In all, he would submit

that the rigour of Section 17A of the Act need not be complied if the

allegation pertains to offence punishable under Section 7 of the Act,

as Section 7 deals with demand and acceptance of illegal

gratification and the public servants are caught red-handed in the

case at hand. He would seek dismissal of the petitions. 14. The learned counsel for the 2nd respondent/ complainant

in most of the cases has elaborately taken this Court through the

documents appended to the statement of objections and the list of

authorities so produced, to buttress his submission that sting

operation is not illegal and the product of sting operation is display

of lack of accountability on the part of the public servants. He would

submit in clarification that in certain cases there need not be a

demand or acceptance. It is straight away acceptance of bribe for a

work to be performed immediately. He would quote the instances

of Traffic Police Inspectors letting granite lorries and all other lorries 31 that are categorized as heavy motor vehicles by accepting money

from drivers/owners of vehicles as the case would be, at completely

prohibited time, in a completely prohibited area. He would,

therefore, submit that these petitions be dismissed as no prior

approval under Section 17A of the Act would even become

applicable to the facts of cases at hand, much less in cases where

the Traffic Police Inspectors caught receiving bribe. He would seek

en masse dismissal of the petitions. All the respective learned

counsel have placed reliance on several judgments of the Apex

Court or the other High Courts. They would bear consideration qua

relevance in the course of the order, as enlisting them would only

lead to bulk of the order and therefore, they are considered

henceforth. 15. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. In furtherance whereof, the following issues

arise for my consideration: ISSUE NO.1: 16. Before embarking upon consideration of the validity of

sting operations conducted, projected in the cases at hand, I deem

it appropriate to notice its genesis and its consideration, by the

Apex Court or other High Courts of the nation. A sting operation, is

trite, an investigative exercise set about to uncover prevalent

malpractices in the society and malfeasance on the part of the

powers that be. Sting operations are deceptive operations

undertaken and designed to catch a person while committing a

crime. The word 'sting' became popular in 1973 with the movie

"The Sting" which featured two grifters and their attempts at

conning their bosses for large sums of money. Sting operations, in 33 public domain, have been a part of response from modern police to

crime. Undercover operations have been a part of police techniques

from the days policing, has been in existence. Sting operations

which have percolated into many modes are now conducted even

by the media to prevent commission of crime through the art of

deception. It is, therefore, the expression 'sting' is also illustrative

of media's power in a democratic set up. There are certain types of

sting operations which could be broadly classified as deception

techniques employed by the Police which would be disguise,

storefronts, professional informers, surrogates, surveillance etc.

The same, when conducted by media, can be classified into two

stings - one positive sting operation and the other negative sting

operation. It is in public domain that positive sting operations are

those which are conducted for the benefit of the Society to steer

clear those incidents which should be put to public domain, as they

have been proven to be harmful to the Society. The other one being

the negative sting operation, it is conducted against an individual.

It is not for the benefit of the Society, but to project and expose an

individual. 17. Sting operation or undercover operation has been a norm

accepted by nations. The Federal Bureau of Investigation of United

States of America has conducted several such undercover or sting

operations like the operations Greylord, the operation lightening

strike in the year 1991 and the most spoken about, Watergate

Scandal through the Watergate Tapes, which led a President of the

United States of America to resign. This resignation records the

only instance where a President of the United States of America

resigns. In the United Kingdom, undercover operations are

regulated under the regulation of the Investigatory Power Act, 2000

where sting operations or undercover operations are a norm. In

Canada "Mr. Big" is a technique originated for big operations of

serious crime. There have been, in certain circumstances, sting

operations judicially recognized as well. 18. In India, there are several sting operations that have

been conducted. A few instances are the operation West Wing

which was an undercover operation carried by Tehalka; operation

Duryodhana, by Cobra Post, where certain members of the Indian

Parliament were caught on camera; Narada case, highhanded 35 operation of financial bribes were unearthed by the said sting

operation. These are a few instances where sting operations have

been conducted which are in public domain. Judicial interpretations

of sting operations have also been done through several judgments

by the Apex Court or by the High Courts. 19. The concept of sting operations did bear consideration by

The Apex Court in the cases of R.K. ANAND v. DELHI HIGH

COURT1 and RAJAT PRASAD v. CBI2 . I deem it appropriate to

notice the said judgments of the Apex Court. In R.K.ANAND (supra) the Apex Court has held as follows: But we find many instances in the programme that
cannot be simply described as "slants". There are a
number of statements and remarks which are
actually incorrect and misleading." (Emphasis supplied) 37 The Apex Court in the case of R.K. ANAND (supra) notices the fact

of publication of the product of sting operation in the media and

holds that media is precluded from publishing any report concerning

a matter that is sub-judice. Later, the Apex Court considers or

rather views the matter differently to hold that sting was intended

to prevent an attempt to interfere or obstruct due process of law

therein. 20. The Apex Court in the case of RAJAT PRASAD (supra)

has held as follows: enforcement officials (Sorrells v. United States [77 L
Ed 413: 287 US 435 (1932)] ). In the latter type of
cases the defence of entrapment is recognised as a
valid defence in USA. If properly founded such a
defence could defeat the prosecution. 14. A somewhat similar jurisprudence recognising
the defence of entrapment in sting operations has
developed in Canada where the defence available under
specified conditions, if established, may result in "stay" of
judicial proceedings against the accused the effect of which
in the said jurisdiction is a termination of the prosecution
[R. v. Regan [(2002) 1 SCR 297 (Can SC)] (para 2)]. 15. In R. v. Mack [(1988) 2 SCR 903 (Can SC)] , it
has been explained by the Canadian Supreme Court that 39 entrapment occurs when (a) the authorities provide a
person with an opportunity to commit an offence without
acting on a reasonable suspicion that this person is already
engaged in criminal activity or pursuant to a bona fide
inquiry, and (b) although having such a reasonable
suspicion or acting in the course of a bona fide inquiry,
they go beyond providing an opportunity and induce the
commission of an offence. The following factors determine
whether the police have done more than provide an
opportunity to commit a crime: 16. In the United Kingdom the defence of
entrapment is not a substantive defence as observed
in R. v. Sang [1980 AC 402: (1979) 3 WLR 263: (1979) 2
All ER 1222 (HL)] by the House of Lords: (AC p. 268)

 "... The conduct of the police where it has
 involved the use of an agent provocateur may well
 be a matter to be taken into consideration in
 mitigation of sentence; but under the English system
 of criminal justice, it does not give rise to any
 discretion on the part of the Judge himself to acquit
 the accused or to direct the jury to do so,
 notwithstanding that he is guilty of the offence." 17. However, a shift in judicial reaction appears to
be emerging which is clearly discernible
in R. v. Looseley [(2001) 1 WLR 2060 : (2001) 4 All ER 897
: 2001 UKHL 53 (HL)] wherein the House of Lords found
that : (WLR pp. 2067-68, paras 16-17)

 "16. ... A prosecution founded on entrapment
 would be an abuse of the court's process. The court
 will not permit the prosecutorial arm of the state to
 behave in this way. 17. ... entrapment is not a matter going only
 to the blameworthiness or culpability of the
 defendant and, hence, to sentence as distinct from
 conviction. Entrapment goes to the propriety of there
 being a prosecution at all for the relevant offence, 41 having regard to the State's involvement in the
 circumstance in which it was committed." 18. Thus, sting operations conducted by the law-
enforcement agencies themselves in the above jurisdictions
have not been recognised as absolute principles of crime
detection and proof of criminal acts. Such operations by the
enforcement agencies are yet to be experimented and
tested in India and legal acceptance thereof by our legal
system is yet to be answered. Nonetheless, the question
that arises in the present case is what would be the
position of such operations if conducted not by a
State agency but by a private individual and the
liability, not of the principal offender honey trapped
into committing the crime, but that of the sting
operator who had stained his own hands while
entrapping what he considers to be the main crime
and the main offender. Should such an individual i.e.
the sting operator be held to be criminally liable for
commission of the offence that is inherent and
inseparable from the process by which commission of
another offence is sought to be established? Should
the commission of the first offence be understood to
be obliterated and extinguished in the face of claims
of larger public interest that the sting operator seeks
to make, namely, to expose the main offender of a
serious crime injurious to public interest? Can the
commission of the initial offence by the sting
operator be understood to be without any criminal
intent and only to facilitate the commission of the
other offence by the "main culprit" and its exposure
before the public? These are some of the ancillary
questions that arise for our answer in the present
appeals and that too at the threshold of the
prosecution i.e. before the commencement of the
trial." (Emphasis supplied) 42 The Apex Court in RAJAT PRASAD (supra) traces genesis of sting

operation and considers the product of sting operation in detail.

Elucidating upon it with reference to permissible sting operations in

United States of America, Canada among other countries termed it

to be sometimes entrapment. 21. The Delhi High Court considers this aspect in detail, in two

of its judgments, which I deem it appropriate to make a reference

of. The Delhi High Court in the case of COURT ON ITS OWN

MOTION v. STATE3 has held as follows: 17. There is no doubt and there is no second
opinion that "truth" is required to be shown to the
public in public interest and the same can be shown
whether in the nature of sting operation or otherwise
but what we feel is that entrapment of any person
should not be resorted to and should not be
permitted. In this connection we may appropriately
refer to the decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States decided on 6th April, 1992 titled Keith
Jacobson v. United States, 503 US 540. In the said
decision it was held by the Supreme Court of the
United States that in their zeal to enforce law, law
protectors must not originate a criminal design,
implant in an innocent person's mind a disposition to
commit a criminal act, and then induce commission
of the crime so that the government may prosecute.
Where the government or their agents induce an
individual to break the law and the defence of
entrapment is at issue, the prosecution must meet
and answer by establishing and answering beyond
reasonable doubt that the defendant was
predisposed to commit the criminal act prior to first
being approached by government agents. The
Supreme Court of the United States has also declared
that law enforcement officials go too far when they
implant in the mind of an innocent person a
disposition to commit an offense and induce its
commission in order that they may prosecute. The
Court held in very unambiguous terms that the
Government should not play on the weakness of an
innocent party and beguile the party into committing
a crime which the party otherwise would not have
attempted. While artifice and stratagem may be
employed to catch those who are engaged in criminal
enterprises, there would be a need to prove that the
person in question had a predisposition to commit
the said criminal act prior to being approached by the
enforcement agencies. The Government must not
punish an individual "for an alleged offence which is 44 the produce because of the creative activity of its
own officials". Ratio of the aforesaid decision
rendered by the Supreme Court of the United States
is in our considered opinion can be applied to the
instant context also i.e. to the media. 18. Giving inducement to a person to commit
an offence, which he is otherwise not likely and
inclined to commit, so as to make the same part of
the sting operation is deplorable and must be
deprecated by all concerned including the media.
Sting operations showing acts and facts as they are
truly and actually happening may be necessary in
public interest and as a tool for justice, but a hidden
camera cannot be allowed to depict something which
is not true, correct and is not happening but has
happened because of inducement by entrapping a
person. 19. The duty of the press as the fourth pillar of
democracy is immense. It has great power and with it
comes increasing amounts of responsibility. No doubt the
media is well within its rightful domain when it seeks to use
tools of investigative journalism to bring us face to face
with the ugly underbelly of the society. However, it is not
permissible for the media to entice and try to actively
induce an individual into committing an offence which
otherwise he is not known and likely to commit. In such
cases there is no predisposition. If one were to look into
our mythology even a sage like Vishwamitra succumbed to
the enchantment of "Maneka". It would be stating the
obvious that the Media is not to test individuals by putting
them through what one might call the "inducement test" 20. Certain proposed guidelines were also
placed before us by the learned Amicus. The said
proposed guidelines are as follows: Accuracy requires the verification (to the
 fullest extent possible) and presentation of all
 facts that are necessary to understand a
 particular event or issue. 11. Infringement of privacy in a news
 based/related programme is a sensitive issue.
 Therefore, greater degree of responsibility
 should be exercised by the channels while
 telecasting any such programmes, as may be
 breaching privacy of individuals. 12. Channels must not use material relating to
 persons' personal or private affairs or which
 invades an individual's privacy unless there is
 identifiable larger public interest reason for the
 material to be broadcast or published." (Emphasis supplied)

The Division Bench of High Court of Delhi considers the concept of

sting operation and holds that duty of the press as a fourth pillar of

democracy is immense and recognizes sting operations by the

media. 22. In a later judgment, the Delhi High Court in the case of BHUPINDER SINGH PATEL v. CBI4 has held as follows:- (Emphasis supplied)

The Delhi High Court holds that media plays an important role in a

democratic society and act of the fourth estate outside the

Government is necessary. But, sting operations involving people to

commit crimes which otherwise they would not have committed 4 2008 SCC OnLine Del 711 49 would display the ugly underbelly of the society, but entrapment of

any person should not be resorted to and cannot be permitted

unless a right approach is taken which is in accordance with law of

the land. This finding of the Delhi High Court is affirmed by the

Apex Court in the case of RAJAT PRASAD (supra). 23. What would unmistakably emerge from the aforesaid

judgments of the Apex Court and that of the Delhi High Court is,

the role and responsibility of the media in a democratic set up is

imperative. But, imperativeness sometimes cannot be stretched for

entrapping any person into a crime or luring any person into a

crime which otherwise he would not have committed. Such actions

are to be permitted only if they are in consonance with law.

Therefore, 'sting operations are healthy; but they should be

healthy sting operations', healthy I mean, they should be in

accordance with law. The issue qua sting operation is accordingly

answered. ISSUE NO.2: 24. The marrow of the submissions of all the learned senior

counsel representing the petitioners lied in non-compliance of Section 17A of the Act. Therefore, I deem it appropriate to notice Section 17A of the Act, its interpretation and applicability to the

facts of the cases at hand. Section 17A of the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 was brought into force on 26.07.2018. Section

17A is extracted hereunder for the purpose of quick reference: 25. Clause (a) thereof provides that in case of public servant

who is or was employed in connection with the affairs of the Union

at the time when the offence alleged to have been committed, the 52 previous approval of the Central Government shall be obtained.

Clause (b) likewise provides that in case of a public servant who is

or was an employee in connection with the affairs of the State at

the time when the offence was alleged to have been committee, the

approval of the State Government shall be obtained before

proceeding. Clause (c) provides that in case of any other person

who comes within the definition of public servant, previous approval

of the Competent Authority to remove him from office at the time

when the offence alleged to have been committee should be

obtained. The narrative hereinabove cannot but indicate that the

object of the Section was to protect public servants from malicious,

vexatious or baseless prosecution. However, if enquiry into the

circumstances in which the alleged administrative or official act was

done by the public servant or where malfeasance committed by the

public servant which would involve an element of dishonesty or

impropriety is to be proceeded against, the approval of the

Competent Authority is required. 26. In the considered view of this Court, Section 17A and its

purport must be observed with complete strictness bearing in mind 53 public interest and protection available to such officers against

whom offences are alleged, failing which, sometimes result in

malicious prosecution. Section 17A is clearly a filter that the

prosecution must pass in order to discourage or avoid vexatious

prosecution, though it cannot be considered as a protective shield

for the guilty, but a safeguard for the innocent. 27. The provision (supra) was also considered by the Apex

Court in the case of YESHWANTH SINHA v. CENTRAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION5. The Apex Court though did not consider as

to how the previous approval of the Competent Authority has to be

taken, but considered the amendment and its importance in the

following paragraphs: (emphasis supplied) 118. Therefore, the petitioners have filed the
complaint fully knowing that Section 17-A constituted a bar
to any inquiry or enquiry or investigation unless there was
previous approval. In fact, a request is made to at least take
the first step of seeking permission under Section 17-A of the
2018 Act. Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 was filed
on 24.10.2018 and the complaint is based on non-
registration of the FIR. There is no challenge to Section 17-A .
Under the law, as it stood, both on the date of filing the
petition and even as of today, Section 17-A continues to be
on the statute book and it constitutes a bar to any inquiry or
enquiry or investigation. The petitioners themselves, in the
complaint, request to seek approval in terms of Section 17-A 55 but when it comes to the relief sought in the writ petition,
 there was no relief claimed in this behalf. 119. Even proceeding on the basis that on petitioners'
 complaint, an FIR must be registered as it purports to
 disclose cognizable offences and the Court must so
 direct, will it not be a futile exercise having regard to section
 17-A . I am, therefore, of the view that though otherwise the
 petitioners in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018
 may have made out a case, having regard to the law actually
 laid down in Lalita Kumari [Lalita Kumari v. State of U.P. ,
 (2014) 2 SCC 1: (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 524], and more
 importantly, Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act, in a review petition, the petitioners cannot succeed.
 However, it is my view that the judgment sought to be
 reviewed, would not stand in the way of the first respondent
 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 from taking action
 on Ext. P-1, complaint in accordance with law and subject
 to first respondent obtaining previous approval under Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act."

The Apex Court has considered the importance of previous approval

of the Competent Authority in the afore-extracted judgment. 28. Section 17A casts an obligation of application of mind on

the part of the Competent Authority in three situations. The

Section makes it clear that no officer shall conduct any enquiry or

inquiry or investigation without previous approval. Therefore,

the approving authority will have to look into the materials, apply

its mind in all the three contingencies i.e., enquiry or inquiry or

investigation. Though, 'enquiry' and 'inquiry' are often used 56 interchangeably, there exists a difference between the two.

Etymologically, the source of both enquiry and inquiry could be the

same as 'en' is derived from French and 'in' is from Latin. Inquiry

has a formal and official ring to it. Enquiry is informal and can be

unofficial. Enquiry could even mean, to question; Inquiry is a

formal investigation; investigation is a search. Therefore, the act

casts an obligation of application of mind upon the authority to

consider whether approval is sought for an enquiry, inquiry or an

investigation. It becomes imperative for the authority to apply its

mind to what is brought before it, as application of mind is the

bedrock of any order that an authority passes, failing which, it

would be contrary to the principles of natural justice, as non-

application of mind is in itself violative of principles of natural

justice. 29. Whether Section 17A of the Act would be applicable to the

facts of the case at hand is required to be examined. The

submission of the learned counsel appearing for the then Anti

Corruption Bureau, now the Lokayukta is that, the proviso to Section 17A directs that no such approval would be necessary for 57 cases involving arrest of a person on the spot on the charge of

accepting or attempting to accept any undue advantage for himself

or any other person. Section 17A cannot be read in isolation and it

should be read qua the offences that are alleged against these

petitioners. They are the ones punishable under Section 7 of the

Act. Section 7(a) , (b) and (c) of the Act reads as follows: Section 7(a) , (b) or (c) mandates that one who obtains or accepts

or attempts to obtain from any person an undue advantage, with an

intention to perform or forbear from performing any public duty

would be an offence. The soul of Section 7 is therefore, demand

and acceptance. The concept of demand and acceptance being sine

qua non for any proceeding to be initiated under Section 7 of the

Act need not detain this Court for any further interpretation as the

Apex Court in plethora of judgments has considered this aspect and

has rendered its imprimatur to the said concept. Reference being

made to the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of NEERAJ

DUTTA v. STATE (GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI )6 in the

circumstances becomes apposite. The Apex Court has held as

follows: Whoever, being, or expecting to be a public servant,
accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to
obtain from any person, for himself or for any other
person, any gratification whatever, other than legal
remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or
forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing
to show, in the exercise of his official functions, favour or
disfavour to any person or for rendering or attempting to
render any service or disservice to any person, with the
Central Government or any State Government or
Parliament or the Legislature of any State or with any local
authority, corporation or Government company referred to
in clause (c) of section 2 , or with any public servant,
whether named or otherwise, shall be punishable with
imprisonment which shall be not less than three years but
which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to
fine. Explanations.- (a) "Expecting to be a public servant"- If a person
not expecting to be in office obtains a gratification by
deceiving others into a belief that he is about to be in
office, and that he will then serve them, he may be guilty
of cheating, but he is not guilty of the offence defined in
this section. (b) "Gratification". The word "gratification" is not
restricted to pecuniary gratifications or to gratifications
estimable in money. (c) "Legal remuneration"- The words "legal
remuneration" are not restricted to remuneration which a
public servant can lawfully demand, but include all 60 remuneration which he is permitted by the Government or
the organisation, which he serves, to accept. (d) "A motive or reward for doing". A person who
receives a gratification as a motive or reward for doing
what he does not intend or is not in a position to do, or has
not done, comes within this expression. (e) Where a public servant induces a person
erroneously believe that his influence with the Government
has obtained a title for that person and thus induces that
person to give the public servant, money or any other
gratification as a reward for this service, the public servant
has committed an offence under this section." 9. Section 13(1)(d) , as existed at the relevant time,
reads thus: 10. The demand for gratification and the acceptance
thereof are sine qua non for the offence punishable under Section 7 of the PC Act. 11. The Constitution Bench was called upon to
decide the question which we have quoted earlier. In
paragraph 74, the conclusions of the Constitution have
been summarised, which read thus: In the case of obtainment, the prior demand for illegal
gratification emanates from the public servant. This is an
offence under Section 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act. (iii) In both cases of (i) and (ii) above, the
offer by the bribe giver and the demand by the public
servant respectively have to be proved by the
prosecution as a fact in issue. In other words, mere
acceptance or receipt of an illegal gratification
without anything more would not make it an offence
under Section 7 or Section 13(1)(d) , (i) and (ii)
respectively of the Act. Therefore, under Section 7 of the
Act, in order to bring home the offence, there must be an
offer which emanates from the bribe giver which is
accepted by the public servant which would make it an
offence. Similarly, a prior demand by the public
servant when accepted by the bribe giver and in turn 63 there is a payment made which is received by the
public servant, would be an offence of obtainment
under Section 13(1)(d) and (i) and (ii) of the Act. (e) The presumption of fact with regard to
the demand and acceptance or obtainment of an
illegal gratification may be made by a court of law by
way of an inference only when the foundational facts
have been proved by relevant oral and documentary
evidence and not in the absence thereof. On the basis
of the material on record, the Court has the discretion to
raise a presumption of fact while considering whether the
fact of demand has been proved by the prosecution or not.
Of course, a presumption of fact is subject to rebuttal by
the accused and in the absence of rebuttal presumption
stands. (f) In the event the complainant turns 'hostile', or
has died or is unavailable to let in his evidence during trial,
demand of illegal gratification can be proved by letting in
the evidence of any other witness who can again let in
evidence, either orally or by documentary evidence or the
prosecution can prove the case by circumstantial evidence.
The trial does not abate nor does it result in an order of
acquittal of the accused public servant. (g) In so far as Section 7 of the Act is
concerned, on the proof of the facts in issue, Section
20 mandates the court to raise a presumption that
the illegal gratification was for the purpose of a
motive or reward as mentioned in the said
Section. The said presumption has to be raised by the
court as a legal presumption or a presumption in law. Of
course, the said presumption is also subject to rebuttal. 64 Section 20 does not apply to Section 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of
the Act. (h) We clarify that the presumption in law under Section 20 of the Act is distinct from presumption of fact referred to above in point (e) as the former is a mandatory presumption
while the latter is discretionary in nature." (emphasis added) 12. The referred question was answered in
paragraph 76 of the aforesaid judgment, which reads thus: (emphasis added) 13. Even the issue of presumption under Section 20 of the PC Act has been answered by the Constitution Bench
by holding that only on proof of the facts in issue, Section
20 mandates the Court to raise a presumption that illegal
gratification was for the purpose of motive or reward as
mentioned in Section 7 (as it existed prior to the
amendment of 2018). In fact, the Constitution Bench has
approved two decisions by the benches of three Hon'ble 65 Judges in the cases of B. Jayaraj and P. Satyanarayana
Murthy. There is another decision of a three Judges' bench
in the case of N. Vijayakumar v. State of Tamil Nadu , which
follows the view taken in the cases of B. Jayaraj and P.
Satyanarayana Murthy. In paragraph 9 of the decision in
the case of B. Jayaraj, this Court has dealt with the
presumption under Section 20 of the PC Act. In paragraph
9, this Court held thus: (emphasis added) 14. The presumption under Section 20 can be
invoked only when the two basic facts required to be
proved under Section 7 , are proved. The said two
basic facts are 'demand' and 'acceptance' of
gratification. The presumption under Section 20 is that
unless the contrary is proved, the acceptance of
gratification shall be presumed to be for a motive or
reward, as contemplated by Section 7 . It means that
once the basic facts of the demand of illegal
gratification and acceptance thereof are proved, 66 unless the contrary are proved, the Court will have to
presume that the gratification was demanded and
accepted as a motive or reward as contemplated by Section 7 . However, this presumption is rebuttable. Even
on the basis of the preponderance of probability, the
accused can rebut the presumption. 15. In the case of N. Vijayakumar, another bench of
three Hon'ble Judges dealt with the issue of presumption
under Section 20 and the degree of proof required to
establish the offences punishable under Section 7 and
clauses (i) and (ii) Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of PC Act. In paragraph 26, the bench held thus: (emphasis added) 16. Thus, the demand for gratification and its
acceptance must be proved beyond a reasonable
doubt. 17. Section 7 , as existed prior to 26th July 2018, was
different from the present Section 7 . The unamended Section 7 which is applicable in the present case,
specifically refers to "any gratification". The substituted Section 7 does not use the word "gratification", but it
uses a wider term "undue advantage". When the
allegation is of demand of gratification and
acceptance thereof by the accused, it must be as a
motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any
official act. The fact that the demand and acceptance
of gratification were for motive or reward as
provided in Section 7 can be proved by invoking the
presumption under Section 20 provided the basic
allegations of the demand and acceptance are
proved. In this case, we are also concerned with the
offence punishable under clauses (i) and (ii) Section
13(1)(d) which is punishable under Section 13(2) of the PC
Act. Clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 13 , which
existed on the statute book prior to the amendment of
26th July 2018, has been quoted earlier. On a plain reading
of clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13(1)(d) , it is apparent
that proof of acceptance of illegal gratification will be
necessary to prove the offences under clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13(1)(d) . In view of what is laid down by the
Constitution Bench, in a given case, the demand and
acceptance of illegal gratification by a public servant can be
proved by circumstantial evidence in the absence of direct
oral or documentary evidence. While answering the 68 referred question, the Constitution Bench has observed that
it is permissible to draw an inferential deduction of
culpability and/or guilt of the public servant for the offences
punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the PC Act. The conclusion is that in
absence of direct evidence, the demand and/or acceptance
can always be proved by other evidence such as
circumstantial evidence. 18. The allegation of demand of gratification
and acceptance made by a public servant has to be
established beyond a reasonable doubt. The decision
of the Constitution Bench does not dilute this
elementary requirement of proof beyond a
reasonable doubt. The Constitution Bench was dealing
with the issue of the modes by which the demand can be
proved. The Constitution Bench has laid down that the
proof need not be only by direct oral or documentary
evidence, but it can be by way of other evidence including
circumstantial evidence. When reliance is placed on
circumstantial evidence to prove the demand for
gratification, the prosecution must establish each and every
circumstance from which the prosecution wants the Court
to draw a conclusion of guilt. The facts so established must
be consistent with only one hypothesis that there was a
demand made for gratification by the accused. Therefore,
in this case, we will have to examine whether there is any
direct evidence of demand. If we come to a conclusion that
there is no direct evidence of demand, this Court will have
to consider whether there is any circumstantial evidence to
prove the demand." (Emphasis supplied) 69 The Apex Court was clarifying the judgment rendered by the 5

Judge Bench in NEERAJ DUTTA v. STATE7 and the Apex Court

holds that the basic concept of demand and acceptance has not

been diluted and that is the soul of the offence under Section 7 of

the Act. If the facts obtaining in the case at hand, as narrated

above, are noticed on the bedrock of the provision and its

interpretation by the Apex Court in the aforesaid judgment, what

would unmistakably emerge is that there is ostensible lack of

demand of money, but the presence of alleged acceptance pervades

through the allegations against the petitioners particularly to that

officers working in the Commercial Tax Department. 30. The proviso to Section 17A will have to be read in

juxtaposition with Section 7 . If so done, what would unmistakably

emerge is, in cases where the officers of the Commercial Tax

Department have been the subject matter of issues in the lis, they

would require prior approval for registration of crime as they are

not the ones wherein the officers have demanded, accepted and

caught accepting such bribe or arrested on such ingredients. The 7 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1724 70 allegations are that they have accepted bribe at the point in time

when the sting operation recording is made. Therefore, it is a case

where there is no demand, but only acceptance. It cannot be

equated with a trap where the public servant had already

demanded or demanding and accepting at the time of recording in

the sting operation. Therefore, those cases which involve

acceptance of money during a sting operation or forcefully loading

into the hands of those officers would come within the ambit of

protection under Section 17A of the Act. On both the counts that

the allegations against the petitioners/officers of the Commercial

Tax Department do not meet the very soul of Section 7 i.e., the

demand and acceptance, as also, their being no approval for

registration of the crime as obtaining under Section 17A , the crimes

registered in those cases would necessarily meet its obliteration. 31. It would have been an altogether different circumstance

and judicial scrutiny would have been differently done if there had

been an order obtaining approval from the hands of the Competent

Authority to register the crime, as obtaining under Section 17A of

the Act. The case at hand is one which has no approval at all, so to 71 say there is no approval sought from the hands of the Competent

Authority and the defence put up is that it is not required. The

cases at hand are not cases of trap. Therefore, on the act of no

approval being sought or granted by the Competent Authority prior

to registration of the crime, the crimes registered in those cases are

necessarily to be obliterated. 32. The other batch of cases are the ones where sting

operation reveals acceptance of bribe from the drivers and owners

of lorries for permitting the lorries into the City during the time

when they are not to be permitted at the places where they are not

supposed to be permitted. In these cases, there is deemed,

demand and acceptance of bribe for permitting lorries carrying huge

granite slabs in an area where they are not supposed to ply, and

during prohibitory hours. This permission is given on the strength of

acceptance of money from the owners or drivers of lorries. This is

caught on camera. This would undoubtedly mean that it was a

positive sting operation, as the public servant or Traffic Police

Inspector demands money, for doing a favour of letting the lorries

and in exchange of such undue favour accepts money. The sting 72 operation has thus caught the officers accepting money. It is

undoubtedly akin to a trap proceeding or even on a higher pedestal.

Therefore, rigour or protection under Section 17A of the Act would

not be applicable in cases of public servants accepting money for

permitting violations of traffic. 33. What is alleged is letting of vehicles which carry granite

blocks in the peak, and prohibitory hours into the city. This has

resulted in clogging vehicular traffic in the city, a menace in the city

to-day. Therefore, such cases where Traffic Police indulge in

accepting of bribe for movement of vehicles which are clearly

prohibited is an unpardonable act. The rigour of Section 17A cannot

be pressed into service for such acts, as it cannot become a cloak

for protection of such illicit acts. The cases would clearly mean that

they have demanded money, accepted bribe and executed the work

immediately on acceptance of such bribe. These are cases where

the Government/prosecuting agencies will have to deal with an iron

hand. 34. In the light of what is observed hereinabove, the division

is clearly two fold. If a public servant is entrapped for his ugly

undertakings, it would amount to violation of right to privacy, as he

has not demanded on his own volition, but he is alleged of

accepting money which is caught on the camera during the sting

operation. It is, therefore, the offence under Section 7(a) , (b) and (c) is laid. These are cases where prior approval under Section 17A would be imperative. The other set of cases, as observed

hereinabove, where there is due demand and acceptance, and

immediate favour is done, such cases would not require approval

under Section 17A of the Act, as its rigour is protected under the

proviso. Therefore, the issue is answered holding that crimes

registered on account of either acceptance of hush money by these

officers of the Commercial Tax Department cannot be permitted to

be continued as there is no prior approval granted; and those

crimes registered against Traffic Police Inspectors, in any of these

cases, are necessarily to be permitted to be continued. The issue is

answered accordingly. ISSUE NO.3: 35. As observed in answering issue No.1, the sting operations

are not completely alien to society, either by the media or the

Police. The cases at hand involve media. Power TV conducts sting

operation, makes a video against 8 Traffic Police Inspectors and 3

Assistant Commissioners of Police which has recorded them as

accepting bribe in return of official favours. They are between the

dates 10-06-2022 and 27-06-2022. The allegation is that they

have facilitated movement of trucks during the prohibited time on

acceptance of hush money. It is, therefore, the afore-quoted

provisions are invoked. The other set of cases are the ones where

money is thrust upon a public servant. Therefore, owing to different

kinds of sting operations that may emerge, it is imperative for

certain guidelines to be followed by the media while conduct of

sting operations. What are the guidelines is no longer res integra as

they are themselves made by the News Broadcasting Standards 75 Authority. The guidelines for conduct of sting operation read as

follows: February 27, 2012/November 15, 2012." (Emphasis supplied) 77 The Press Council of India has also notified norms of Journalistic

Conduct which covers guidelines for sting operations. The

guidelines are as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

What would emerge from the guidelines of the News Broadcasting

Standards Authority is that sting operation must not offend against

the provisions of Section 5 of the 1995 Act and the Rules framed

there under. Therefore, the sting operations will have to be in

consonance with the Networks Act as well. 36. Though I deem it appropriate to uphold sting operation in

few cases and obliterate in few cases as rendered hereinbefore,

sting operations henceforth have to be in strict compliance with the

guidelines. The guidelines mandate that no sting operation shall be

conducted except with the previous approval and under the

supervision of the head of the editorial team of the news channel

and sting operations could be conducted for two reasons - in public

interest and to expose a wrong doing. There are several other

conditions. Therefore, the media pursuant to whose actions the

present crimes are registered are required to be encouraged

following of guidelines quoted supra while conduct of any sting

operation is imperative, failing which, such sting operations cannot

but be termed to be illegal and contrary to law unless justified on a

case to case basis. SUMMARY OF THE FINDINGS: 37. Ergo, a parting observation in the circumstances may not

be inapt, it is in public domain that traffic congestion or traffic

clogging in the City of Bangalore has reached mountainous

proportion. The city has now emerged as the second most

congested city in the world close to London, which is the first.

Reasons for such traffic clogging are manifold. One such

circumstance that has led to such clogging is the alleged corruption

at the hands of traffic sleuths, which is the subject matter of second

kind of crime registered in the cases at hand. The Government by

way of its policy or the respective Departments would bring in

prohibitory hours for heavy traffic vehicles to come into the city and

if on acceptance of money these prohibitory hours are diluted for

lorries or heavy traffic vehicles to come in, it would become an aid

or an added circumstance leading to vehicular traffic clogging in the

city. Such instances which are found to be happening in broad day

light and which are brought to the notice of the State, by any

quarter whatsoever should merit immediate address, and such 81 persons who indulge in creating such traffic snarls or any other

person indulging in such corruption should be dealt with an iron

hand, as these can be considered as crimes affecting the general

public and every citizen, having cascading effect on the economy of

the State as well. Therefore, the top brass, in the Departments

that are concerned with regulating traffic in the city should

forthwith address such problems of deviation of any norm in traffic

with the connivance of traffic police, and bring them to books in

accordance with law without loss of time. 38. For the aforesaid reasons, I pass the following: Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed, as a

consequence. Sd/- JUDGE
Bkp
CT:SS