1. List has been revised. 2. Heard Sri Virendra Singh Tomar, learned counsel for applicant, Sri Anil Kumar Shukla, learned counsel for the informant, Sri Arun Kumar Mishra, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the material available on record. 3. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant in Case Crime No.224 of 2025, under Sections 137(2), 123, 77, 119(1), 351(2) B.N.S., 2023, Police Station Mansurpur, District Muzaffarnagar with the prayer to enlarge him on bail. 4. As per prosecution story, the applicant is stated to have intoxicated the victim and had taken certain indecent nude photographs and videos of her and thereby had started blackmailing her to give Rs.2 lakhs to him and co-accused Vishal, whereby the said video is stated to have been been made viral on social media. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has stated that the FIR is delayed and there is no time of offence mentioned in it. The applicant has nothing to do with the said offence. The said I.D. mentioned to have been used by the applicant can be operated from any instrument whatsoever as it is Instagram I.D. There is no criminal history of the applicant. The applicant is in jail since 30.07.2025 and he is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. 6. Per contra, learned counsel for the informant and learned A.G.A. have vehemently opposed the bail application on the ground that the applicant it is an open and shut case as the applicant had used his Instagram I.D. and posted indecent photographs and videos of the victim and had even sent them to her would-be husband, as such, the applicant is not entitled for bail. 7. After hearing learned counsel for the parties and taking into consideration the fact that the applicant had made viral the said indecent photographs and videos of the victim on social media by using his Instagram I.D., I do not find it a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant. The bail application is found devoid of merits and is, accordingly, rejected. 8. It is clarified that the observations made herein are limited to the facts brought in by the parties pertaining to the disposal of bail application and the said observations shall have no bearing on the merits of the case during trial. (Krishan Pahal,J.) 
 
September 22, 2025 
 
(Ravi Kant)