1. By way of this petition, the petitioner has prayed for the
 following reliefs:- 2. Learned advocate for the petitioner has, at the very outset,
 submitted that an indispensable precondition for invoking the
 provisions of the GUJCTOC Act is the existence of at least two prior
 offences registered against the petitioner on earlier occasions.
 Drawing the attention of this Court to the record, it has been pointed
 out that the first offence was registered vide C.R. No. I-163 of 2014
 for the offences punishable under Sections 325 , 114 and 188 of the
 Indian Penal Code. Another case, being C.C. No. 68239 of 2015,
 was instituted, but the same came to be disposed of by the learned
 trial Court on 28.11.2016, culminating in an order of acquittal. 2.1. It is further urged that the second offence was registered with
 Chowk Bazar Police Station, Surat City, being C.R. No. I-181 of
 2014, for the offences punishable under Sections 307 and 397 of the
 Indian Penal Code read with Section 135 of the Gujarat Police Act.
 In such circumstances, it is the emphatic contention of the learned Page 2 of 13 Uploaded by MANISH MISHRA(HC01776) on Mon Sep 22 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Sep 26 23:48:58 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/1773/2021 ORDER DATED: 11/09/2025

 undefined

 advocate for the petitioner that the essential statutory requirements
 for registration of the impugned FIR under the GUJCTOC Act
 remain unfulfilled. Ergo, the very initiation of proceedings against
 the petitioner is not only vitiated by lack of legal substratum but also
 constitutes a malicious prosecution and an abuse of the process of
 law. 2.2. It is further submitted that perusing of definition unlawful
 activity organized crime syndicate defined under Section 2 of the
 GUJCTOC as well as considering the provisions of Section 3 of the
 GUJCTOC filing of the FIR is totally malicious Act. Petitioner is
 not a part of the organized crime sydicate and has never continued
 the unlawful activity. In the aforesaid circumstance, learned
 advocate for the petitioner submitted to allow the petition. 3. Per contra, the learned APP, while adverting to the Statement
 of Objects and Reasons of the GUJCTOC Act, submitted that the
 legislation was enacted as a special statute with stringent provisions
 for the effective prevention and control of terrorist activities and
 organized crimes. It is further urged that, in terms of Section 2(c) of
 the Act, the essential requirement stands satisfied if more than one
 charge-sheet has been filed before a competent Court within the
 preceding ten years and the Court has taken cognizance thereof. 3.1. Drawing the Court's attention to the record, the learned APP Page 3 of 13 Uploaded by MANISH MISHRA(HC01776) on Mon Sep 22 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Sep 26 23:48:58 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/1773/2021 ORDER DATED: 11/09/2025

 undefined

 submitted that in the instant case, two FIRs had earlier been
 registered against the petitioner, which culminated in the filing of
 charge-sheets, upon which the competent Courts had indeed taken
 cognizance. Since these antecedent FIRs fall within the ten-year
 span preceding the registration of the present FIR, the statutory
 mandate under Section 2(c) stands duly fulfilled. It was, therefore,
 contended that prima facie the petitioner's involvement in
 "continuing unlawful activity" is established, and his association
 with an "organized crime syndicate" cannot be ruled out at this
 stage. 3.2. In light of the aforesaid background, the learned APP urged
 that no indulgence be shown to the petitioner and prayed for
 dismissal of the petition. 4. I have heard the learned advocates appearing for both sides
 and have also meticulously perused the record. At the very
 threshold, it would be apposite to advert to the statutory definitions
 of "continuing unlawful activity" and "organized crime" as
 enshrined under the provisions GUJCTOC):- 5. Organized crime is defined in Section 2(e) of the GUJCTOC,
 which is as under:- 6. It is pertinent to note that the expression "continuing unlawful
 activity", as defined under Section 2(1)(c) of the GUJCTOC Act,
 contemplates an activity prohibited by law for the time being in
 force, which is a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment
 of three years or more, undertaken either singly or jointly, as a
 member of an organized crime syndicate or on its behalf, in respect
 of which more than one charge-sheet has been filed before a
 competent Court within the preceding ten years and cognizance
 thereof has been taken. 7. Likewise, the term "organized crime" under Section 2(1)(e) of
 the Act denotes any continuing unlawful activity by an individual,
 singly or jointly, either as a member of an organized crime syndicate
 or on its behalf, by use of violence, threat of violence, intimidation, Page 5 of 13 Uploaded by MANISH MISHRA(HC01776) on Mon Sep 22 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Sep 26 23:48:58 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/1773/2021 ORDER DATED: 11/09/2025

 undefined

 coercion or other unlawful means, with the objective of gaining
 pecuniary benefits, securing undue economic or other advantage, or
 promoting insurgency. 8. At this stage, it would be apposite to advert to the relevant
 penal provisions of the GUJCTOC Act. 8.1. Section 3(1)(i) prescribes punishment for any person who
 commits an organized crime, rendering such individual liable to
 imprisonment for life and also fine of not less than five lakh rupees. 8.2. Section 3(1)(ii) envisages punishment where such organized
 crime results in the death of any person, in which eventuality the
 offender is liable to capital punishment or imprisonment for life,
 together with fine of not less than ten lakh rupees. 8.3. Section 3(2) provides that any person who conspires, attempts,
 abets or knowingly facilitates the commission of an organized crime
 shall also be visited with punishment, which may extend to
 imprisonment for a term not less than five years but which may
 extend to life, and fine of not less than five lakh rupees. 8.4. Section 3(4) further fastens criminal liability upon any person
 who is a member of an organized crime syndicate, by prescribing
 punishment with rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than five Page 6 of 13 Uploaded by MANISH MISHRA(HC01776) on Mon Sep 22 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Sep 26 23:48:58 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/1773/2021 ORDER DATED: 11/09/2025

 undefined

 years but which may extend to life, and fine of not less than five lakh
 rupees. 9. In the backdrop of the aforesaid aspects, upon a close perusal
 of the FIR, it emerges as self-explanatory and unequivocally reveals
 that one Mohd. Ashraf Mohd. Ismail Nagori is alleged to be the head
 of the "Nagori Gang," which is characterized as an organized crime
 syndicate. The record discloses that either singly or jointly, the said
 syndicate has indulged in the commission of multiple offences, and a
 detailed FIR has been lodged against all the accused persons
 delineating their role in such organized criminal activities. 9.1. Insofar as the present petitioner is concerned, the record
 reflects that apart from two charge-sheets filed against him under Sections 325 and 307 of the IPC within the preceding ten years, in
 both of which the competent Court has taken cognizance, he has also
 been subjected to proceedings under the PASA. Thus, the allegation
 that the petitioner committed the aforesaid offences as a member of
 the organized crime syndicate led by the Nagori Gang stands
 fortified. 10. In this conspectus, the submission canvassed by the learned
 advocate for the petitioner that in one of the cases arising from the
 charge-sheet under Section 325 IPC, the petitioner stands acquitted,
 is of no avail. The definition of "continuing unlawful activity" under
 Section 2(c) of the GUJCTOC Act mandates only that more than one Page 7 of 13 Uploaded by MANISH MISHRA(HC01776) on Mon Sep 22 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Sep 26 23:48:58 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/1773/2021 ORDER DATED: 11/09/2025

 undefined

 charge-sheet should have been filed before a competent Court within
 the preceding ten years and that cognizance should have been taken
 therein. The statute does not predicate the requirement of eventual
 conviction. It is an admitted position that in both the said cases,
 cognizance has indeed been taken by the competent Court, thereby
 satisfying the statutory threshold of "continuing unlawful activity." 11. Further, the allegation that the petitioner is an active member
 of an organized crime syndicate, namely the Nagori Gang, which has
 been operating extensively in Surat, stands specifically noted in the
 FIR. 12. In this regard, reference may profitably be made to a pari
 materia legislation, namely, the Maharashtra Control of Organised
 Crime Act, 1999 , wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Zakir
 Abdul Mirajkar v. State of Maharashtra and Others (2023) 20
 SCC 408, has comprehensively examined the contours of
 "continuing unlawful activity," "organized crime syndicate," and
 "organized crime." The relevant observations made therein, which
 squarely apply to the present factual matrix, are extracted hereunder
 for ready reference: NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/1773/2021 ORDER DATED: 11/09/2025

 undefined

 Judge Bench of the Bombay High Court, speaking through
 Ranjana Desai, J. (as the learned judge then was) held that: (SCC
 OnLine Bom para 37)

 "37. ... Section 2(1)(d) which defines "continuing unlawful
 activity" sets down a period of 10 years within which more
 than one charge-sheet have to be filed.... It is the
 membership of organised crime syndicate which makes a
 person liable under McocA. This is evident from Section
 3(4) MCCA which states that any person who is a member
 of an organised crime syndicate shall be punished with
 imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five
 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and
 shall also be liable to fine, subject to a minimum of fine of
 Rs 5 lakhs. The charge under MCOCA ropes in a person
 who as a member of the organised crime syndicate commits
 organised crime i.e. acts of extortion by giving threats, etc.
 to gain economic advantage or supremacy, as a member of
 the crime syndicate singly or jointly. Charge is in respect of
 unlawful activities of the organised crime syndicate.
 Therefore, if within a period of preceding ten years, one
 charge-sheet has been filed in respect of organised crime
 committed by the members of a particular crime syndicate,
 the saidcharge-sheet can be taken against a member of the
 said crime syndicate for the purpose of application of
 MCOCA against him even if he is involved in one case. The
 organised crime committed by him will be a part of the
 continuing unlawful activity of the organised crime
 syndicate. What is important is the nexus or the link of the
 person with organised crime syndicate. The link with the
 "organised crime syndicate" is the crux of the term
 "continuing unlawful activity". If this link is not established,
 that person cannot be roped in." 13. In the matter of Rameshbhai Vallabhbhai Abhangi v. State
 of Gujarat , reported in 2024 (0) AIJEL-HC 248922, this Court has
 observed and held as under: [11.2] Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Zakir
 Abdul Mirajkar (Supra, on the same issue has answered by
 elaborately discussing and considering the decisions in the case of Kavitha Lankesh (Supra); State of Maharashtra & Ors. vs. Lalit
 Somdatta Nagpal & Anr. reported in ( 2007) 4 SCC 171 and
 Govind Sakharam Ubhe vs. State of Maharashtra and has been
 pleased to hold in paragraph Nos.76 and 77(c) as under:- 14. In view of the ratio decidendi laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Zakir Abdul Mirajkar (supra), coupled with the
 factual conspectus obtaining in the present case, this Court is of the
 considered opinion that the ingredients constituting "continuing
 unlawful activity" and "organized crime" within the meaning of the
 GUJCTOC Act stand satisfied. The record unerringly points towards
 the petitioner's association with the organized crime syndicate led by
 one Mohd. Ashraf Mohd. Ismail Nagori, and the pendency of
 charge-sheets wherein cognizance has been taken by competent
 courts, reinforces the statutory threshold envisaged under Section
 2(c) of the Act. 15. Ergo, this Court finds no merit in the present petition. The
 challenge to the invocation of provisions under the GUJCTOC Act is
 untenable in law as well as on facts. Accordingly, the petition stands
 DISMISSED. Rule/Notice, if any, is discharged. Interim relief, if
 any, stands vacated. (J. C. DOSHI,J)
 MANISH MISHRA Page 13 of 13 Uploaded by MANISH MISHRA(HC01776) on Mon Sep 22 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Sep 26 23:48:58 IST 2025