1. The present petitions have been filed in the nature of Public Interest
 Litigations, for the issuance of appropriate writs, order or directions
 directing the Respondent authorities to direct Google Pay India Services
 Private Limited to cease their operations in India for violation of regulatory
 and privacy norms. 2. In W.P.(C) 3693/2019, the Petitioner has prayed for the following
 reliefs:- 3. In W.P.(C) 11262/2020, the Petitioner has prayed for the following
 reliefs:- 4. It is stated that the information brought on record in the present
 petition has been obtained by the Petitioner through RTI applications and
 representations filed before government authorities such as the Reserve
 Bank of India (RBI), the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI)
 that are entrusted with the responsibility of implementing, administrating,
 and managing provisions of the Aadhar Act, 2016 ; Payments and Settlement
 Systems Act, 2007 ; and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 , respectively. 5. It is stated that through these petitions, the Petitioner seeks to bring
 forth questions of public interest, insofar as the operation of Google Pay
 services in India are concerned. 6. The Petitioner contends that Google Pay has violated privacy norms
 by gaining access to and using consumers' personal data such as Aadhar
 details which is in contravention of Section 29 , 38(g) and 38(i) of the
 Aadhar Act, 2016 and the Payments and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 and Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . Further, it is stated that storage and use of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 4 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 sensitive and personal banking information would tantamount to an offence
 by a company as per Section 43 of the Aadhar Act, 2016. 7. The main grouse of the Petitioner is that operations of Google Pay in
 India as a payment system provider are unauthorized for want of obtaining
 necessary permissions and hence Google Pay storing sensitive information
 of Indian citizens would tantamount to violations under Aadhar Act, 2016 ; Payments and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (hereinafter referred to as „the
 PSS Act‟) and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . 8. It is further submitted that upon a perusal of the terms and conditions
 of Google Pay, it emerges that the Google Pay application which operates on
 the UPI platform has been performing a role of facilitator of transactions.
 Therefore, Google Pay has been performing the role of a Payments System
 Provider (hereinafter "PSP") without obtaining valid authorisation from the
 RBI as per Sections 4 and 7 of the Payments and Settlement Systems Act,
 2007, and therefore this constitutes an offence by a company under Section
 26 of the PSS Act. 9. To buttress this submission, the Petitioner places reliance on a reply to
 an RTI applications filed by the Petitioner before the RBI and UIDAI,
 seeking information as to whether Google Pay was authorized to operate as
 a payment system provider, and if the UIDAI had granted permission to
 access and store customer data while processing payments. The replies to
 RTIs dated 09.09.2019 and 04.03.2020, before the RBI and the UIDAI
 respectively are as under:- Sr. No. Information Sought Reply 1. Has the Google Pay made an application under No. Section 5 of the Payments and Settlement Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 5 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 Systems Act as on 10 August 2019? 2. Has the Reserve Bank of India issues Show
 Cause Notice to the Google Pay for operating
 without registration under section 5 of the
 Payments and Settlement Systems Act as on 10
 August 2019. If yes then please provide the copy
 of the show cause notice No. 3. Has the Reserve Bank of India initiated
 proceedings and actions against illegal and
 unauthorized operations of the Google Pay
 under section 26 , 27 and 30 of the Payments and
 Settlement Systems Act as on 10 August 2019? 4. Has the Reserve Bank of India allowed and
 permitted Google Pay to store the banking
 transaction data of the citizens on its server as
 on 10 August 2019. If Yes then please provide
 the letter of permission. No. 5. Has the Reserve Bank of India allowed and
 permitted Google Pay to collect Personal
 Identity Information such as AADHAR, PAN,
 Voter ID etc. as on 10 August 2019. If Yes then
 please provide the letter of permission. 6. Has the Reserve Bank of India issued show
 cause notice to National Payments Corporation
 of India for allowing unauthorized access to UPI
 and BHIM platform and application to Google
 Pay as on 10 August 2019. If yes then please
 provide the copy of the show cause notice. 7. Has the Reserve Bank of India issued show No.
 cause notice to National Payments Corporation
 of India for allowing unauthorized access of the
 banking transaction information through UPI
 and BHIM platform and application of the
 citizens to the Google Pay payment system and
 servers as on 10 August 2019? If yes then please
 provide the copy of the show cause notice. 8. Has the Reserve Bank of India conducted audit
 of the payment system and servers of the Google No.
 Pay where it is storing the Banking Transaction
 and Personal Identity information of the Citizens Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 6 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 under section 16 of the Payments and Settlement
 Systems Act as on 10 August 2019? If yes then
 please provide the copy of the audit report. 9. Has the Reserve Bank of India received any
 communication from Google Pay that all citizen
 banking transaction data and personal
 information are maintained in the servers
 located only in India as on 10 August 2019. If
 yes then please provide the copy of the
 communication. 10. Has the Reserve Bank of India issued directions
 to the Google Pay under the provisions of Section 17 of the Payments and Settlement
 Systems Act as on 10 August 2019? If yes then
 please provide the copy of the same. 1. Has the Unique Identification Authority of
 India permitted Google India Digital Services Private
 Limited doing business as Google Pay (Mobile
 Payments Applications) to access and use citizens
 AADHAR database/platform for processing and No.
 authentication payments using BHIM Aadhar platform
 as on 7 February 2020. If yes then please provide the
 details of the permission issued by Unique
 Identification Authority of India. 2. Has the Unique Identification Authority of
 India received information from Reserve Bank of India
 that, Reserve Bank of India has given permission to
 the Google India Digital Services Private Limited
 doing business as Google Pay (Mobile Payments No.
 Applications) is accessing and using AADHAR
 database/platform for processing and authentication
 payments via BHIM Aadhar platform as on 7
 February 2020. If yes then please provide the details. 3. Has the Unique Identification Authority of
 India received information from National Payments
 Corporation of India that, National Payments
 Corporation of India has given permission to the
 Google India Digital Services Private Limited doing
 No.
 business as Google Pay (Mobile Payments
 Applications) is accessing and using AADHAR
 database/platform for processing and authentication
 payments via BHIM Aadhar platform as on 7
 February 2020. If yes then please provide the details. 4. Has the Unique Identification Authority of
 India received application from Google India Digital
 Services Private Limited doing business as Google
 Pay (Mobile Payments Applications) is accessing and
 No.
 using AADHAR database/platform for processing and
 authentication payments via BHIM Aadhar platform
 as on 7 February 2020. If yes then please provide the
 details. 5. Has the Unique Identification Authority of
 India received complaint from Reserve Bank of India
 that Google India Digital Services Private Limited
 doing business as Google Pay (Mobile Payments
 Applications) has been accessing and using AADHAR
 No.
 database/platform without approval and registration
 for processing and authentication payments under Payments and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 or via
 BHIM Aadhar platform as on 7 February 2020. If yes
 then please provide the details. 6. Has the Unique Identification Authority of
 India received complaint from National Payments
 Corporation of India that Google India Digital
 Services Private Limited doing business as Google
 Pay (Mobile Payments Applications) has been
 accessing and using AADHAR database/platform No.
 without approval and registration for processing and
 authentication payments under Payments and
 Settlement Systems Act, 2007 or via BHIM Aadhar
 platform as on 7 February 2020. If yes then please
 provide the details Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 8 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 10. It is further submitted that Google Pay does not find a mention under
 the list of entities authorized under the PSS Act, 2007 read with Board for
 Regulation and Supervision of Payment and Settlement Systems
 Regulations, 2008, for setting up and operating a payment system in India. It
 is further contended that by virtue of Google Pay not finding a mention in
 this list, Google Pay is an unauthorized payment system service and as an
 unauthorized payments systems operator, Google Pay has obtained
 unfettered access to its customers' personal information such as AADHAR,
 PAN and other transaction details. It is also alleged that Google Pay violates
 privacy of its users by requiring phone numbers, sharing contacts, amongst
 other personal details. Further, it is alleged that Google Pay has not adhered
 to the RBI Circular RBI/2017-18/153 |DPSS.CO.OD No.
 2785/06.08.2005/2017-18 dated 06.04.2018 issued under Section 10(2), 18
 of the PSS Act, 2007, which mandates all payment system providers such as
 National Payments Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as ' NPCI')
 to ensure that all data pertaining to payment systems operated by them is
 stored in a system only in India. 11. The Ld. Counsel for the Reserve Bank of India at the outset submitted
 that the objective of the PSS Act, 2007 is to regulate and supervise payment
 systems in India, and RBI is the designated authority for such purposes. It is
 submitted that entities are required to obtain RBI permissions under PSS
 Act, 2007 only for commencement or operation as payment systems. The
 RBI under section 7 of the PSS Act, 2007 has granted a certificate of
 authorization to the NCPI, an undertaking of the RBI, and has entrusted the
 responsibility of operating retail payments and settlement systems in India.
 NPCI is duly registered as an authorized payment system provider under Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 9 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 PSS Act and is the network operator, service provider and coordinator of the
 Unified Payments Interface (hereinafter referred to as "UPI"), which is a
 system for real-time instant payment system facilitating inter-bank
 transactions. Reference is made to NPCI procedural guidelines to submit
 that NPCI is empowered to oversee customer grievances. It is further
 submitted that the NPCI also performs the role of a regulator of domestic
 payment systems. Since UPI is a platform operated and controlled by NPCI,
 Google Pay functions as an application merely to provide its services on the
 UPI platform, and it cannot be said that Google Pay is a Payment Systems
 Provider in itself. It is stated that Payment Service Providers are entities that
 provide front end or the final applications to be used by customers. PSPs
 provide end to end services to customers. Banks may participate in the UPI
 framework as system participants, and under the multi-bank model launched
 by the NPCI, a Third-Party App Provider (TPAP) may participate in the UPI
 system through PSP banks. It is submitted that under this arrangement,
 Google Pay is a TPAP. 12. Learned Counsel has further submitted that at present NPCI has
 allowed 4 banks to partner with the UPI system under the multi bank mode.
 Every PSP bank in the UPI system allots Virtual Payment Addresses (VPAs)
 to individual users, to facilitate either Peer-to-Peer (P2P) or Peer-to-
 Merchant (P2M) transactions. This elaborate arrangement ensures that no
 other information such as bank details or private data is leaked, as all
 transactions are routed through customers' VPAs. In this framework, Google
 Pay merely acts as a TPAP, by connecting participating banks/system
 participants to a large customer base. 13. Learned Counsel for the RBI has highlighted the difference between
 BHIM AADHAR Pay and UPI in response to the Petitioner's concerns
 regarding storage of sensitive banking information of customers such as
 AADHAR details, etc. While both services are products offered and
 operated by the NPCI, Google Pay is only a third-party UPI enabled app
 which is not connected to BHIM-AADHAR in any way. Referring to a reply
 in response to the Petitioner's RTI application dated 28.03.2019 filed before
 the RBI, it is submitted that the on boarding of entities on the UPI platform
 is a decision left to be taken by the NPCI. Accordingly, reference is placed
 on a list of third-party applications on the UPI system, wherein Google Pay
 is included. 14. Learned Counsel for the RBI further submits that the appropriate
 mechanism to address complaints regarding digital transactions undertaken
 by customers of system participants is squarely covered by the RBI
 Ombudsman Scheme for Digital Transactions, 2019. Chapter IV of the
 Scheme provides the procedure for redressal of grievances faced by
 individuals through the channels of filing a complaint before the RBI. Under Section 3(11) of the Scheme, the 'System Participant' would mean any
 person other than a bank participating in a payment system as defined under Section 2 of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 excluding a
 'System Provider' and a 'System Provider' would mean and include a person
 who operates an authorized payment system as defined under Section
 2(1)(q) of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. 15. The Ld. Counsel for Google Pay at the outset submits that Google Pay
 would not fall within the definition of a Payment System as defined under
 Section 2(1)(i) of the PSS Act, 2007. It is submitted that Google Pay is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 11 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 neither a system provider nor a payment system operator as far as its
 activities as a TPAP under the UPI, which is a payment system operated by
 the NPCI. He therefore submits that only system providers would be
 required to obtain authorization in consonance with Sections 4 and 7 of the
 PSS Act, 2007. It is stated that NPCI is registered as an authorized system
 provider and controls UPI infrastructure and its antecedent payment
 systems. It is stated that UPI works in real time by instantly transferring
 funds between two bank accounts and enables UPI account holders to send
 and receive money using an assigned user ID, which circumvents the need to
 enter bank information such as bank account details, PAN number or even
 the net banking PIN. Learned Counsel further submits that the NPCI has
 already received authorization from the RBI under PSS Act, 2007 to operate
 UPI, which in turn allows authorizes participant banks and third-party
 applications to offer their respective payment services. NPCI introduced
 guidelines which dictates how PSP banks engage with TPAPs in the UPI
 system. Ld. Counsel for Google Pay submits that the said Guidelines have a
 binding effect and are enforced contractually between the parties in the UPI
 system. Section 20 of the PSS Act reads as under:- 16. Learned Counsel has placed reliance upon NPCI Circular dated
 15.09.2017 which enables the operation of a multi PSP bank model in UPI
 to submit all data exchanged between the UPI enabled app, the app
 provider's system and PSP bank through a secure channel. Google Pay
 works on this multi-PSP model and connects to UPI systems, which is in
 turn operated by the NPCI (system provider) through multiple PSP banks.
 Thus, it is averred that Google Pay is merely an application that provides the
 technological platform and the interface through which users undertake UPI
 transactions. 17. Heard learned Counsel for the parties and perused the material on
 record. The matter is being disposed of with the consent of the parties at
 admission stage itself. 18. The relevant statutory provisions governing the field as contained
 under Sections 2(1)(i), 2(1)(p) and 2(1)(q) of the PSS Act which define
 'payment system', 'system participant' and 'system provider' respectively,
 reads as under:- 19. Section 7 of the PSS Act which gives power to the RBI to grant
 authorisation for payment systems, reads as under: 20. Keeping in view the aforesaid statutory provisions of law and the
 counter affidavit of RBI, it can be safely gathered that NPCI is the operator
 of the UPI system for transactions in India and is a "system provider" which
 is authorized by the RBI under the PSS Act to extend its services for
 facilitating transactions and the transactions carried out via UPI through Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 15 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 Google Pay are only peer-to-peer or peer-to-merchant transactions and is not
 a system provider under the PSS Act, 2007. 21. The UPI Guidelines, 2019 also make it exceedingly clear that data
 may be stored under two types, namely, 'customer data' and 'customer
 payments sensitive data'. While the former may be stored with the app
 provider in an encrypted format, the latter can only be stored with the
 payment services providers bank systems, and not with the third party app
 under the multi model API approach that Google Pay has opted for. We
 therefore do not find any merit in the Petitioner's contention Google Pay is
 actively accessing and collecting sensitive and private user data. 22. Within the framework of UPI, banks perform two roles. The first role
 is that of a PSP which provides payment services to customers, the other is
 to facilitate and settle all debit and credit transactions. The PSPs are entities
 that provide front end application services to the customer. A PSP may also
 provide a user with an application which may be used by the same bank's
 customers or even by other banks' customers. 23. In this context, third-party apps such as Google Pay are designed to
 provide a large customer base to participating banks. A third-party app such
 as Google Pay obtains approval from NPCI for operating on the UPI
 platform. In the multi bank application system which Google Pay has
 adopted, the NPCI provides a common library for integration to TPAPs on
 behalf of PSP banks. It would be relevant to revert to an extract of the NPCI
 issued Unified Payment Interface Procedural Guidelines, 2019 ("UPI
 Guidelines, 2019"), which refers to a TPAP as under:- 24. In addition, the Procedural Guidelines, 2019 sheds light on the models
 used in UPI. Under the model which is dependent on bank architecture
 which Google Pay has opted for, all transactions are routed through
 participating banks which are connected to the NPCI-NET. 25. A perusal of the counter affidavit filed by the RBI shows that the RBI
 has issued the Certificate of Authorisation to the NPCI to operate various
 retail payment systems in India including UPI. As pointed out by learned
 Counsel for RBI, UPI is an instant real-time payment system developed by
 the NPCI for facilitating inter-bank transactions and works by instantly
 transferring funds between two bank accounts on a mobile platform. It has
 been further pointed out that UPI is a system that powers multiple bank
 accounts into a single mobile application bank, merging several banking
 features, seamless fund routing and provide for merchant payments into one
 hood. Relevant portions of the counter affidavit reads as under: Whereas, as per the PSS Act, NPCI is the system
 provider of the UPI and owner as well as operator. It
 is further submitted that Payment Service Providers
 (i.e. PSPs) are the entities that provide for the front-
 end/ application for the customer. They are the ones
 who acquire customers and provide payment
 (credit/debit) services to them. Moreover, it will be of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 18 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 utmost significance to state here that only banks are
 allowed to act as PSPs and therefore, the services
 under UPI are presently offered by banks in their
 capacity as PSP banks, i.e. PSP banks are the system
 participants of UPI. 9. It is submitted that the NPCI has initially launched
 the single PSP model under UPI and under this model,
 a third party could also connect to the UPI platform
 through a single sponsor PSP bank. However,
 subsequently NPCI approached the answering
 Respondent with a proposal of multibank model in UPI
 which was taken note of vide RBI letter dated August
 22, 2017. Accordingly, NPCI introduced multibank
 model under UPI on September 15, 2017 wherein a
 large merchant / tech player, referred to as Third Party
 App Provider (TPAP), having access to large customer
 base, can connect to the UPI system operated by the
 NPCI through multiple PSP banks. 10. It is submitted that the NPCI has allowed four
 banks, i.e. Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and
 State Bank of India (sponsor banks) to partner with
 Google (i.e. one of the TPAPs) under the multibank
 model f UPI. Therefore, Google provides the necessary
 customer interface through its application, i.e. Google
 Pay, while the transactions are processed through
 these sponsor PSP banks. A copy of the RBI letter
 dated August 22, 2017 is hereby annexed as
 ANNEXURE B to the present Affidavit. 11. It is submitted that the Google is a TPAP and does
 not operate any payment system for which the
 authorization is required and mandatory under the
 provisions of PSS Act. It is further submitted that the
 answering Respondent does not give any approvals/
 authorisations to entities like Google which are acting
 as TPAPs. They are not considered as system providers
 i.e. authorized payment system operators under the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 3693/2019 & W.P.(C) 11262/2020 Page 19 of 20 Signing Date:17.08.2023 13:05:17 provisions of the PSS Act, 2007. Hence, they do not
 find place in the list of authorized Payment System
 operators published on the website of the answering
 Respondent. 12. In view of the aforesaid submissions and
 explanations, it is submitted that the present Petition
 filed by the Petitioner is wholly misconceived. The
 Petitioner has totally misconstrued and utterly
 misunderstood the provisions of the PSS Act 2007 as
 well as the services provided by the Google being a
 mere Third Party App Provider for which no
 authorization is required under the provisions of the
 PSS Act, 2007. Therefore, the present Petition is
 devoid of any merits and is liable to be dismissed. "