SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Confused and dejected about where my marital life is going?
DATE: 2022-10-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/xycf9n/confused_and_dejected_about_where_my_marital_life/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone,

I created a throwaway account to be able to post this here. I have been married for almost 3 years now. I am an Indian living and working in the US. I went through arranged marriage route. Met my husband in 2019 and got married in 2020. It has been a pretty rough ride since then. I am not sure if this is normal or not but I definitely want to gather your thoughts. 

When I started talking to my husband in 2019, we both were living in different countries. My husband also was in the US until 2019 but had to move to Europe for work for a year. It was then that our parents introduced us to each other and we started talking. I met him once before he left to Europe. Our initial talks were really fun and interesting and I liked how it was going despite not being able to meet in person. By July 2019, we decided to move forward with each other. Right before we decided to tell our parents about our decision to move forward with marriage, he asked me for a prenup. Although it was something our families were new to, I thought there's no harm in signing a prenup as it will protect the both of us anyway and so I agreed to it. We then talked to our parents and all wedding talks and arrangements got started. The wedding date was fixed for Feb 2020. He came to the US in early feb 2020 and showed me his prenup draft. In addition to the basic template, there were a lot of add-ons coming from him. Few of them were things like if I contracted AIDS or a chronic illness like cancer, he wouldn't support me. Coming from a traditional Indian background, I felt shocked and disheartened to read it few days before the wedding date. I had to sit, talk to him, and modify a lot of things in the prenup such that it favored the both of us. The arguments that went into this were ugly and heartbreaking. My father went to an Indian lawyer and got his advice on prenup. The lawyer told my father that prenups may cause a lot of trust issues between the couple given Indian traditions and customs but any which way, in the event of a divorce, Indian law is favorable to women. My father came back and relayed this information to me. I, very naively, told this to my husband and he, without a second thought, told me on my face that my father is lying. He didn't stop there. He told me that he understands my father's intention to protect his daughter but that he is definitely lying. This felt very odd to me at the moment and still feels very odd to me. Despite asking for a prenup, he never once mentioned that we would split our wedding expenses 50-50. My father spent the entire amount on the wedding. Right before marriage, his father asked my parents to send him the entire list of gold and silver items my parents were going to give me for the wedding as its a tradition for them. His father even took a big locker in his bank to keep all my jewelry in there right after wedding. We are from different Indian states and so our families speak different languages. Before marriage, we decided to include both our traditions but on the day of the wedding, his father changed everything and had only their traditions. My parents also couldn't say anything as it was on the day of the wedding and they just wanted the wedding to happen smoothly. 

Every festival specific to my culture, I celebrated it all alone despite having my husband's company cuz he would never participate and worse, he would actually ruin it for me. Whereas for every other festival like Diwali, Navratri, his family had stupid traditions that they forced on me. If I said I won't do certain things, it would cause a big fight and later would ruin that festival. After every such fight, my husband won't talk to me for 10-15 days. I would beg, plead but he would never talk to me. 

Once in Europe, we had an argument and he abandoned me on the roads in the middle of the night. Thank God I knew how to take a train despite the country being new. I took a train and he followed me home closely in another train. When my parents confronted him about it, he said that he was still following me very closely from behind so there's nothing to worry. 

The prenup was meant to be an agreement to safeguard our finances in the event of a divorce. But he is extremely money minded and such a miser that in the early months of marriage, whatever we did, he made me spend all the money on the activities. I found it to be extremely unfair especially after having gone through a devastating experience with prenup and so I very strictly said we should spend 50-50 on everything going forward. And so now the prenup has actually become our living document. When I needed help financially to pay off one month's rent, he said he won't help me. He gets paid a lot more than I do. Once I said, it's unfair that we are splitting equally, we should split according to percentages. That way, both of us will pay a fair share based on our salaries. He told me on my face that it is unfair to him as I will enjoy the luxuries that his money will get me. Is this how a person treats their spouse? 

After a lot of drama, I finally made my peace with finances. I get paid enough and I have support from my family if I need it. I wanted to progress in our lives and so I brought up the topic of kids to him. I feel very ashamed to say this but once, he told me that I am trying to cheat him to become pregnant. Another time, he said he will have kids with me only if and when I change. I have no idea how to change for him but this felt like blackmailing or controlling. Another time he told me he won't have kids with me because I will teach my kids my language and not his. 

Recently, he needed some help from my company for filing taxes jointly. My company HR came on a video call and gave us few options for filing jointly. It's a complicated tax issue as I got stuck in Swiss, he had to show the govt that I worked from Swiss for certain number of days. Anyway, he told me on my face that my HR is lying and that my company is shit. He went on to say that I come from drainage and that talking to me is impossible and that only my family can talk to me because we are all the same. 

He also lies. And sometimes denies that he has said anything. So does his father. His father lies on the face and denies that things have happened at all. I don't know if I have to struggle this much to get some financial support, emotional support or any kind of support from my spouse but this certainly doesn't feel normal to me. I also react and shout at him. And he very conveniently says that I am abusive when in reality, I find myself shouting only just at him especially as a reaction to his behavior or if he does something that triggers me. If I hear the sound of keys jangling anytime after we fight, it triggers me like anything because after a fight, instead of sitting down and talking through things, he picks up the keys and leaves home to go to his office and comes back very late and doesn't talk at all for days together. 

What I have listed here is just few things from my 3 years of marriage so far. We even tried couples therapy for one whole year and it didn't work out. So we stopped going for therapy. I don't know what to do now. There's no trust whatsoever in this marriage. When my parents confronted him about this, he told them that he loves me. But his actions don't match up to his words. And behind the four walls, there's no trust, respect or sense of security in this marriage. After all that his father and he has done wrt money, I just don't trust them at all. I don't know if these feelings will change over time or not either. I don't know how his behavior will be after we have kids i.e. if he ever finds me worthy enough to have kids with. What should I do? Are these normal behaviors? I want to write more about certain incidents too but will make other posts for them. Thanks for reading.