SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How do you deal with a deranged father?
DATE: 2021-06-23
SCORE: 18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/o677fn/how_do_you_deal_with_a_deranged_father/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone, it's Rishiraj Chakravarty here again.

I don't know what else to do so I'm posting here since I've gotten a lot of help from people here in the past.

In one of my first posts here I had mentioned that I have a deranged father. Recently he has become too full of himself and his behaviour has become intolerable. He has already told us that he is sick of us and wants us to go away. The only reason we're still staying together is because neither my mother nor I have any source of income.

My mother is 63 years old and is a patient of high blood pressure and arthritis. Even with her condition she has been looking for jobs for years now. Because of her age she doesn't get hired. I on the other hand can't get a job because of my low educational qualifications (class X pass only) and the pandemic has made the job situation doubly difficult. With the help of two people on Reddit I have bought a computer and have started a online programming course but it will take time and I can't say for certain that I will be good at it as I have no prior idea about it. Even if I am good at it, it will still take some time to get a job.

My father doesn't have any source of income either, he only has a meager amount of money he got from selling his stationery shop. (I don't know how much he has, he refuses to tell us anything) Every month my mother and I worry if we will be homeless this month or if we can stay for a bit longer. My father doesn't even have any kind of insurance or pension or any property of any kind. He never failed to make idiotic financial decisions and never saved up anything. And yet he still has the audacity to think he is absolutely perfect and flawless and we should pretty much worship him. He has made a habit of mentally torturing my mother and fighting with her at quite literally anything she says. I am always afraid that my mother will suffer a stroke this way, she already has high blood pressure. She works like a slave all day long and gets no recognition or respect from her husband, who even went as far as to say "if I had just hired a servant I would have had a better life."

My mother is a well-educated, smart woman with a huge amount of working experience. She is proficient in Assamese (mother tongue), Bengali, Hindi and English. Her only weakness is being hopeless with technology. She had to quit working just to satisfy her husband. My mother deserves a better life, away from the deranged tyrant that is her husband and I need a better life as well. We cannot keep on living this way. Hell, even at 40° heat my mother has to sleep without the ceiling fan on since my father goes mad if our electricity bill is over 200 Rupees. Yes two hundred, for comparison the average electricity bill of a Guwahati family is Rs. 2000.

Both my mother and I are at the end of our ropes. My mother constantly talks about killing herself and I can't argue because she really has no reason left to live. No money, no hope, not even a smidgen of respect from the person she dedicated her life to. I too feel like dying is the best option but I want to become someone, I want to live.

I really need some help in this matter. I don't care if I get called a fraud again... I will simply ignore the people who say that. I need help, advice, some kind of hope, something... Anything.