SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need Help: My father (accountant) used to work for a firm that closed years ago; but is now being hounded by calls for payment made in 2018 or 19
DATE: 2025-03-12
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1j9o4av/need_help_my_father_accountant_used_to_work_for_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

First of all, I apologize if I did something wrong with the title or the flair (hopefully I didn't). I don't know exactly where to turn to, so I decided to seek help here.

My father (who is an accountant) used to work for this firm (let's call it X) six or some years ago and used to file gst for them. It was a small firm and during GST registration my father's phone number and email was given as primary authorised signatory. 

Unfortunately, the firm closed four or so years ago. And he stopped working for them. From the little I understood from him, he still files returns in the gst portal but they are always 0. Everything was fine until one day my father recieved a call saying that he needed to pay money to another firm (let's call it Y). My family thought it was one of those fraud calls, so we ignored it for the first few days. But the calls persisted. He even received and email saying that he needed to pay money to Y.

My father checked the gst portal and found the firm Y being linked to X. He checked and figured out that X did not pay money to Y and guessed that Y had lodged a complain. 

So, my father contacted firm Y and talked with them and even gave them the contact number of firm X. Firm Y confirmed and assured father that they would pull the complaint. But for the last one month, my father still gets calls about the payment from different numbers several times a day.

I don't exactly understand much in this field since I am not related to it. But from the little research I did, my father will have to change the primary authorised signatory. The problem with that is that to change it, my father will have to provide a new mobile number and email id and PAN. 

Both my father and I are confused as to how to proceed or solve this problem. I did not know where to turn to, so I decided to ask here.

I will be very grateful if someone could give me a solution. 

Thank you.