1. This petition impugns the departmental proceedings initiated against

the petitioner as per the article of charges dated 21.5.2013. These article of

charges read as under : 2. The law with respect to the challenge to departmental proceedings

from the stage of inception, ie at the stage of issuance of the article of

charges, is now well settled and I have had an occasion to consider this

aspect in the judgment of Dr. Muhammad Iqbal Vs. Union of India and

Ors. in W.P.(C) No.4222/2012 decided on 8.7.2013 wherein I have held that

unless the issues raised are issues of jurisdiction or such similar issues,

continuation of departmental proceedings cannot be stayed. The relevant

paras of this judgment read as under:- 3. Effectively, what has been held by this Court in many judgments as

also by the Supreme Court is that the truth or falsity of the factual averments

in the show cause notice have to be determined by the enquiry officer

inasmuch as merits of the matter are decided by the enquiry officer and not

by this Court. It is, therefore, clear that a Court can only interfere with

continuation of departmental proceedings only when there are issues of

inherent lack of jurisdiction or some similar issues because truth or falsity of

the factual aspects cannot be gone into by the Courts at the inception stage

of issuing of charge-sheet and such truth or falsity is to be decided only by W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 7 of 14 the enquiry officer and not by this Court. 4. On behalf of the petitioner, it was very strenuously sought to be

contended that entire exercise against the petitioner is mala fide, and

therefore, only on this ground itself the charge sheet ought to be quashed. I

do not agree. May be, in certain extreme cases of mala fides which ex facie

show either lack of jurisdiction or total falsity of the charges on the face of

it, may be on the principle equivalent to rejection of a plaint under Order 7

Rule 11, the impugned charge-sheet can be quashed on the ground of mala

fides. However, in my opinion, in the present case issues of facts have to

be decided by the enquiry officer and not by this Court as per the article of

charges reproduced above which are factual in nature. For the sake of

argument even if I assume that there were mala fides against the petitioner

by the College, however, if actually the charges are found to be true and

there is infraction of the rules of the organization then merely on the ground

of mala fides, although the employee is otherwise found guilty, the charge-

sheet cannot be quashed. Also aspects of mala fides are factual aspects and,

therefore, these disputed questions of facts can only be decided after trial

and such disputed questions of facts may be only after the enquiry officer's

report is received argued as a basis to prove mala fides and not in the facts W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 8 of 14 of this Court at the present stage. Mala fides may include any aspect with

respect to certain aspects of principles of natural justice being violated,

however, merely and simply on the ground of allegation of charges being

mala fide, at this stage itself ie at the stage of issuance, the charge sheet in

the present case cannot be quashed. Now let us look at the issue as to

whether the charges make out an issue of lack of jurisdiction or similar

issues. 5. So far as the charge No. 1 is concerned, the very fact that official

work ought to have been done in the official room and should not have been

done at a private place, is an aspect which needs to be enquired into because

of course in certain cases certain official work on account of exigencies of

circumstances can be extended to the residential place, however, it cannot be

that official work will be done only at a residential place and not in the

official room which is provided to an employee. Therefore, factual aspects

with respect to charge No. 1, consequences thereof, extent of violations

thereof, existence of exigencies to do the work only at residence and what

should be the consequent effect, will have to be necessarily determined

during the enquiry proceedings and not at the inception stage in this Court.

There is no issue of lack of jurisdiction so far as charge no.1 is concerned. W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 9 of 14 6. So far as the charge No. 2 is concerned, the same is relatable to charge

No. 4 and which charges pertain to petitioner taking a sum of Rs. 30,000/-

for expenses and thereafter failing to deposit bills and failing to submit any

expenditure account. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner wanted this

Court to go through the bills and decide that the bills have been submitted in

order to judge the validity of the charge, however, I do not find any admitted

position or an ex facie position only and only in favour of the petitioner

emerging for this Court today at the stage of issuing of charge-sheet to give

a finding in favour of the petitioner with respect to charges being false.

Therefore, factual aspect whether all the bills are submitted, whether these

bills totalled to Rs. 30,000/-, whether complete expenditure account has

been submitted or not and so on are issues which will be decided in the

departmental proceedings. 7. Charge No. 3 pertains to using of a personal pen drive to store

confidential data of a sensitive nature which belonged only to the College.

Maybe, in exigent circumstances personal effects of a petitioner can be used,

however, if the petitioner has chosen to use his personal effects such as a

pen drive and put official data of the enquiry proceedings of Justice S.K.

Mahajan Committee in the pen drive, and which is an admitted position of W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 10 of 14 official data existing in the personal pen drive of the petitioner, then

therefore, it cannot be said that ex facie the College or its agent/ employee,

namely, Mr. Ataullah Khan has no right to take the pen drive. Once the pen

drive contained official data of the college it cannot be argued that the

possession and entitlement thereof would only be of the petitioner, and that

right petitioner waived by himself putting official data in his personal pen-

drive. Therefore, the aspect of whether or not there is any violation by the

petitioner by putting official data into a personal pen drive are issues which

have necessarily to be examined with respect to their effect in the enquiry

proceedings and such charge cannot be quashed at the outset. 8. Charge No. 5 relates to not carrying out the work on the official

computer allotted by the office but done on the personal computer. The

discussion given while dealing with charge No. 1 will also apply with

respect to this charge. 9. So far as the charge No. 6 is concerned it pertains to petitioner filing a

criminal complaint case on account of one Mr. Ataullah Khan, an employee

of the College appointed to assist the petitioner, taking away pen drive.

Petitioner has filed a criminal complaint inter alia for the reason that the pen

drive was personal to the petitioner which could not have been taken away W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 11 of 14 by Mr. Ataullah Khan. In my opinion and as already observed above once

the personal pen drive contains confidential data belonging to the College it

prima facie cannot be said that the pen drive thereafter remains only

personal to the petitioner. Therefore, at this stage of only issuing of the

charge-sheet it cannot be said that the complaint made by the petitioner

against Mr. Ataullah Khan was totally justified in law by all applicable

aspects. An unjustified complaint made for unjustifiable reasons and its

consequent effect on the discipline of the University and the other related

aspects can surely be enquired into the departmental proceedings. There is

no law that the examination of this charge/issue must necessarily await the

result of the criminal case, and which may take a long period of time. 10. So far as the charge No. 7 is concerned it pertains to factual aspects of

the petitioner using filthy, derogatory and abusive language as also making

communal remarks. These are therefore factual aspects and not issues of

jurisdiction which can be enquired at this stage for quashing of the charge

sheet. 11. So far as charge No. 8 is concerned learned senior counsel for the

college on instructions states that this charge is not being pressed. 12. So far as the charge No. 9 is concerned, the same pertains to again W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 12 of 14 endeavour of the petitioner to falsely implicate three teachers in a criminal

case. Part of the discussion given with respect to charge No.6 will be

applicable qua this charge also. Further, whether the said teachers are or are

not falsely implicated, need not await the result of the criminal case which

will take many many years and if there is any mala fide implication of an

employee in a criminal case, and that issue relates to the issue of 'personal'

pen drive which is already referred above , this aspect will concern the

attempt to vitiate the environment at the work place by bringing false

pressure upon the employees and therefore these are not issues of

jurisdiction which can be looked into and decided at this stage. Therefore,

there is no reason why this charge also cannot be enquired into. 13. I may state that I am forced to discuss each of the charges which have

been alleged against the petitioner because the said charges were argued to

be false and mala fide. Of course, I have given my observations with

respect to each of the charges, but I make it clear that I have not made final

observations one way or the other on the merits of the charge, factually or

legally, for and against any party herein and finality of the truth or falsity of

the charges will be decided in the enquiry proceedings. Observations have

been made by me with respect to the charges only to show that these charges W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 13 of 14 did not ex facie show that they are false or they do not need any factual

enquiry to be conducted or that they are not issues of jurisdiction as was

being argued on behalf of the petitioner. 14. I may state that this case was adjourned on 25.9.2013 and 23.10.2013

in order to bring out an amicable settlement which will bring peace of mind

to both the parties as also retain dignities of each of the persons involved,

however, I note that counsel for the petitioner on instructions states that

petitioner is not interested in compromising the issues with the respondent-

college which was ready, and petitioner wants to pursue the present case on

merits. Of course, not entering into a compromise, is an entitlement of any

party and this Court can only decide the case as per the legal and factual

position prevailing. 15. In view of the above, the writ petition being without any merit is

accordingly dismissed, leaving the parties to bear their own costs. VALMIKI J. MEHTA, J
OCTOBER 31, 2013
godara W.P.(C) 6121/2013 Page 14 of 14