obtained   a   decree   against   the   appellants   and   at   a   court   auction
during   execution   of   decree,   Jagannath   on   behalf   of   Chunilal
purchased   property   of   appellants.     By   registered   deed,   Jagannath
released all  his rights in the said property in favour of Chunilal.
Meanwhile,   appellants   had   paid   the   total   decretal   amount   to
Chunilal,   so   he   was   not   entitled   to   hold   that   property.     Without
disclosing that he had executed release deed in favour of Chunilal,
Jagannath   filed   a   partition   suit   and   obtained   preliminary   decree
against the appellants.   At the stage of consideration of application

Suit no. 174/2013     M/s DTDC Courier & Cargo Ltd. vs Pooja Rani      Page  7 of 14 pages
 for final decree, the appellants came to know about the release deed
executed by Jagannath in favour of Chunilal, so they challenged the
application for final decree on the ground that non­disclosure of a
vital   document   by   Jagannath   had   vitiated   the   proceedings   and
preliminary  decree  had been  obtained  by playing  fraud  on court.
Trial court accepted the contention and dismissed the application for
final decree.   But the High Court set aside the trial court order and
held that "there is no legal duty cast upon the plaintiff to come to
court with a true case and prove it by true evidence".  The Hon'ble
Supreme Court, setting aside the order of the High Court held thus : 14.  Similar  sentiments  of   keeping the  fountain  of  justice
unpolluted   from   the   unscrupulous   litigants   were   echoed   by   the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Dalip Singh vs State of
Uttar Pradesh , (2010) 2 SCC 114 in following expression : 15.  In the  present  case,  as  mentioned  above,  at the  very
first opportunity, through written statement, defendant took a clear
and specific stand to the effect that contract dated 05.04.2011 on the
basis whereof territorial jurisdiction of Delhi Courts was claimed by
plaintiff   was     a   forged   document.     Defendant   even   pleaded
specifically in the written statement that in order to bring the present
suit under territorial jurisdiction of Delhi Courts, place of execution
of the contract was changed to Delhi from Bangalore by applying
white  fluid.      Despite   such  clear  pleadings   of  defendant,    in  the
replication, plaintiff did not come up with any explanation at all. 16.  Not   just   that,   even   in   the   application   under
consideration,   defendant   specifically   mentioned   that   plaintiff   had
forged   the   contract   Ex.   PW1/C     in   order   to   fabricate   territorial
jurisdiction,   but   in   reply   to   the   application   followed   by   repeated
opportunities, plaintiff came up with not a shred of explanation. 17.  As   reflected   from   record,   the   matter   was   repeatedly
adjourned,   granting   opportunities   to   plaintiff   to   file   an   affidavit
disclosing particulars of the person who had carried out tampering in

Suit no. 174/2013     M/s DTDC Courier & Cargo Ltd. vs Pooja Rani      Page  10 of 14 pages
 the contract Ex. PW1/C in order to make out territorial jurisdiction
of Delhi Courts, but till last date, plaintiff opted to maintain silence. 18.  As  further reflected from record, on 27.09.2018 it was
submitted on behalf of plaintiff that at the time when the allegedly
forged contract Ex. PW1/C was executed, husband of defendant was
Branch Manager of plaintiff company.  So, an affidavit of Managing
Director of plaintiff in that regard was directed to be filed.     But
instead of that, an affidavit dated 03.10.2018 of one of the Directors
of plaintiff was filed deposing that Shri Rajiv Kumar, husband of the
defendant had worked as Assistant Manager with plaintiff company
and was relieved  on 21.10.2008, i.e. much prior to 05.04.2011 when
the   contract   was   executed.       In   other   words,   plaintiff   could   not
succeed in projecting even in a veiled manner that it is defendant's
husband   who   could   have   carried   out   tampering   in   the   original
contract. 19. Thus, the admitted picture which emerges is that the
franchisee contract was executed in two original sets, out of which
one   set   was   retained   by   the   plaintiff,   on   the   basis   whereof   the
present   suit   was   filed   in   Delhi;   that   the   original   franchisee
agreement   filed   by   plaintiff,   on   the   basis   whereof   territorial
jurisdiction   of   Delhi   Courts   was   claimed   was   proved   by   the
authorised representative of plaintiff in her chief examination as Ex. Suit no. 174/2013     M/s DTDC Courier & Cargo Ltd. vs Pooja Rani      Page  11 of 14 pages
 PW1/C; that the original franchisee agreement  which was  given to
the   defendant   upon   its   execution     is   Ex.   PW1/D1   as   proved   by
authorized representative of plaintiff in her cross­examination; that
Ex. PW1/D1 is the original agreement which bears no tampering
and reflects the place of execution of agreement as Bangalore, while
Ex. PW1/C the original agreement filed by plaintiff bears tampering
by way of white fluid applied on the place of execution followed by
writing   of   the   word   "Delhi"   on   the   white   fluid;   that   the   said
application of white fluid and writing of the word "Delhi" in Ex.
PW1/C was not countersigned as mere correction of a typographical
error by the parties or even either of them. 20.  Seriousness of the abovesaid tampering is that had for
any reason defendant not contested the suit, this court would have
had no occasion to get to know about the tampering and the court
would   have   proceeded   to   decide   this   suit   without   territorial
jurisdiction since defendant is based in Faridabad, Haryana  and no
cause   of   action   took   place   in   Delhi.   And   this   seriousness   is
aggrandized   by   absolute   absence   of   remorse   and   contumacious
conduct of plaintiff in keeping silent qua identity of the forger and
rather trying to project falsely that it is defendant's husband, who
must shoulder the guilt. Suit no. 174/2013     M/s DTDC Courier & Cargo Ltd. vs Pooja Rani      Page  12 of 14 pages 21.  It also cannot be said, nor has it been claimed till date
that the above said tampering in the original contract was done in
good faith or by mistake and without any malafide.  As mentioned
above,   despite   repeated   directions   plaintiff   did   not   disclose   as   to
who had carried out the said tampering.  Rather, the failed effort on
the part of plaintiff in trying to project husband of the defendant
guilty of forgery speaks volumes of its intent.     No other purpose
except   to   fabricate   territorial   jurisdiction   of   Delhi   courts   can   be
conceived of behind such tampering. 22.  The question also arises as to whether the suit be not
throttled at this stage itself and be carried forward through full dress
trial   till   formal   conclusion.     In   my   considered   view,   fortified   by
above   quoted   judicial   pronouncements,   since   plaintiff   despite
opportunities   through   replication   in   suit   and   reply   to   the   present
application did not even whisper that the said tampering was not
done by plaintiff or that the same was done in good faith or the same
was   done   with   mutual   consent   of   parties   to   change   the   place   of
execution   of   contract   from   Bangalore   to   Delhi   or   any   other
explanation,   proceeding   further   with   such   suit   would   lead   to
nowhere   since   plaintiff   would   not   be   able   to   lead   any   evidence
beyond its pleadings and would not even be able to seek amendment
to the written statement on account of proviso to Order VI Rule 17
CPC . Suit no. 174/2013     M/s DTDC Courier & Cargo Ltd. vs Pooja Rani      Page  13 of 14 pages 23.  I have also examined the possibility of exercising the
option contemplated by Order VII Rule 10 CPC and returning the
plaint  to  be  filed  in  Bangalore.      But   even  that  cannot  be  done,
because,   as   mentioned   above,   plaintiff   despite   repeated
opportunities   never   took   a   stand   that   the   place   of   execution   of
contract was in Bangalore and consequently cause of action arose
there.       Besides,   the   option   of   return   of   plaint   is   also   not   in
consonance   with   the   principles   of   law   enunciated   above   that   the
court must ensure that wrong doer is denied profit or undue benefit
from frivolous litigation and courts have to ensure that there is no
incentive or motive for initiating litigation on forged documents. 24. In   view   of   above   discussion,   defendant's   application
dated 23.01.2018 is allowed and consequently, this suit is dismissed
with   cost   of   Rs.20,000/­   which   shall   be   paid   by   plaintiff   to
defendant towards her litigation expenses, estimated on conservative
side. 25. Decree   sheet   be   accordingly   drawn   and   file   be
consigned to records. Announced in the open court on                                                          
this 20th day of October, 2018   (GIRISH KATHPALIA)
                                                      District & Sessions Judge
                                                     
 Digitally signed  South East, Saket Courts
 by GIRISH
                   
 GIRISH                                 New Delhi 20.10.2018 (a)  
 KATHPALIA
 KATHPALIA Date: 2018.10.22
 16:16:11 +0530
Suit no. 174/2013     M/s DTDC Courier & Cargo Ltd. vs Pooja Rani      Page  14 of 14 pages