J U D G M E N T
S. SGHIR AHMAD, J. Leave granted. 2. Ground floor of premises	G-47, Kirti Nagar, New Delhi was
let out	 in November, 1963 by	Daulat Rai Tandon, father of the
present respondent, to the appellant for the residence of its
employee, Shri	K.K. Chaudhry,	who, subsequently, vacated the
premises and shifted to his own flat at C-II/29-C, DDA Flats,
Janak Puri, Pankha Road, New Delhi and since than, the premises
are in	occupation of Shri Raj Chaudhry, another employee of the
appellant, against whom eviction proceedings, on the ground of
sub-letting, are pending. 3. The respondent was employed as Deputy Chief Engineer in
Northern Railway and retired from service, while posted at Delhi,
on 23.7.87. He filed a petition under Section 14C of the Delhi
Rent Control Act, 1958 (for short, 'the Act') for eviction of the
appellant, but	the petition was dismissed by the Rent Controller
on 4.5.93. The Revision filed against that order was dismissed by
the High Court. The respondent, then,	 approached this Court in
Civil Appeal No. 10475 of 1996 (arising out of SLP(C) No.8337 of
1994) which was allowed and the case was remanded to the Rent
Controller for	a fresh	 decision in the light of the Judgment in Anand Swaroop Vohra vs. Bhim Sen Bahri & Anr. , (1995) 5 SCC 372. 4. On the initiation of remand proceedings, the appellant moved
an application	under Section 25B(4) and (5) of the Act, before
the Rent Controller,	 for leave to contest the	 eviction
proceedings but	 the leave was refused	 and the appellant was
directed to hand-over possession of the premises in question to
the respondent.	 This order was challenged by the appellant in a
Revision filed	before the Delhi Court	 High Court which, by the
impugned judgement dated 15.10.97, dismissed the Revision giving
him time till 31st December, 1997 to vacate	the premises and
deliver possession to the respondent. That is how the matter is
in this Court. 5. Mr. Gopal	 Subramaniam, learned	Senior	Counsel	 for the
appellant, has vehemently contended that an order for eviction of
the tenant cannot be passed by the Rent Controller under Section
14C of	the Act unless it is found, as a fact, that the premises
were bona fide required by the landlord for	his own	 use and
occupation. It	is contended that the law does not allow the Rent
Controller or	 the High Court to act mechanically on the
application of	the landlord and grant him the relief of eviction
merely on his asking through an application under Section 14C of
the Act. It is	 also contended	 that the discretion of the Rent
Controller and	that of	 the High Court to allow or not to allow
the eviction petition against	a sitting tenant cannot be taken
away by any	legislative measure and unless "bona fide
requirement" of	 the landlord or, for that matter, of any member
of his	family, is established on the material placed on record,
the application	 cannot be allowed and the tenant cannot be
evicted even under that provision of the Act. 6. Mr. Harish	 Salve, learned	 Senior Counsel appearing for the
respondent contends in reply that in	proceedings under Section
14C of	the Act, "bona fide requirement" is not required to be
established by the landlord as the words, "bona fide requirement" 7. Senior Counsel on both sides have put forward before us in
their own inimitable style attractive arguments compelling us to
decide which argument	is real attractive and which of the
arguments looks	 to be	artificially attractive	 under a mask of
"distinguishable" or "not applicable" decisions. 8. The Act which was	 brought on the Statute book in 1958 is a
composite legislation	 in the sense that	 while	providing
protection to the tenants who, under common law,	including Transfer of Property Act , could be evicted from the premises let
out to	them, at any time by the landlord on the termination of
their tenancy,	it restricts the right of the landlords to evict
the tenants at their will. The Act is thus beneficial as also
restrictive in	nature. The Courts are, therefore, under a legal
compulsion to harmoniously read the provisions of the Act so as
to balance the rights of the landlord and the obligations of the
tenant towards each other keeping in mind that one of the objects
of the	legislature while enacting the Act was to	curb the
tendency of the greedy landlords to throw out the tenants, paying
lower rent, in the name of personal occupation and rent out the
premises at the market rate. 9. Section 14 of the Act contains a specific prohibition that a
court or Rent Controller shall not pass any order or decree for
recovery of possession from tenants in respect of the premises in
their occupation. The Proviso	appended to Sub-section (1) of Section 14 , however, carves out certain exceptions and sets out
the grounds on which the Controller may make	 an order for the
recovery of possession. One such ground is contained in clause (e) thereof which reads as under : Explanation -- For the purposes of
 this clause, "premises let out for
 residential purposes" include any
 premises which having been let for
 use as a residence are, without the
 consent of the	landlord, used
 incidentally for	 commercial or
 other purposes." 10. This Clause gives a right to the landlord to seek eviction
of the	tenant from the premises let out to him for residential
purposes, provided such premises are bona fide required by the
landlord for his own occupation. It is under this provision that
the landlords,	 generally, approach the Rent Controller for
eviction of the tenants for their personal bona fide
requirements. 11. By the Delhi Control (Amendment) Act, 1976 (18	of 1976),
which came into force with effect from 1.12.1975, Section 14A was
introduced in the Act	which gave special rights, to recover
immediate possession, to a landlord who, being a person in
occupation of any residential	premises allotted to him by the
Central Government or by any local authority, is required to
vacate such residential accommodation	on the	 ground	 that he
already owns, in the Union Territory	of Delhi, a residential
accommodation either in his own name of in the name of his wife
and dependent child. 12. The Act was further amended by	the Delhi Rent Control
(Amendment) Act, 1988 (57 of 1988) with effect from 5.10.1988
when three new Sections, namely, Section 14B , 14C & 14D were
introduced in the Act. 13. Under Section 14B , right to recover immediate possession has
been given to a released or retired person from any Armed Forces,
if the	premises let out by	him are required for	 his own
residence. Similarly,	 under Section	 14C , right to recover
immediate possession has been	given to a retired or likely to
retire employee	 of the Central Government or of the Delhi
Administration. Under Section 14D , as widow, if the premises were
let out	 by her	 of by her husband, has also been given the right
to recover immediate possession of the premises. 14. The amendments introduced in 1976 and 1988 thus created a
class of landlords who	 were bestowed	with special rights to
recover	 immediate possession	 from	tenants	 occupying their
premises provided such premises were required by them, except the
landlord under Section 14A , for their	 own occupation. Section
14C , with which we are concerned in the present case, provides as
under :- This principle	is directly related to a landlord who becomes or
is likely to become homeless on retirement but not to landlords
who are already in occupation of a house, owned by them, and seek
eviction of the tenant	 from their other house, or, where the
landlord is in occupation of a part of his own house and seeks
eviction of the tenant	 from the other part. In such a case, the
tenant may raise objections with respect to the landlord's
requirement, particularly as the requirement, on retirement of
likely retirement, cannot possibly, not in all cases, become
urgent overnight. To repeat, the purpose is to provide a home to
a homeless so that he may lead a peaceful and quiet life after
retirement. 16. We	 may now proceed to	consider the contentious issue
relating to omission of the words "bona fide	 requirement" in Section 14C as against Section 14(1)(e) where these	words do
prominently occur. 17. The proceedings under the	 two provisions, though common in
nature, in the sense,	that both relate to eviction of tenants,
are basically different. While	 under Section 14(1)(e) , a tenant
can be	compelled to vacate the premises to make room for the
landlord. who genuinely and bona fide requires it, under Section
14C , the landlord has	to have	 a particular	legal status or
character, namely, that he should have either retired from
service or was about to retire within a year of initiation of the
eviction proceedings. Under Section 14(1)(e) , an enquiry into the
"bona fide requirement" of the landlord has to be necessarily
held as	 eviction of the tenant cannot be ordered unless that
requirement is	established as	a fact. Whether enquiry into this
vital factor is also required to be held under Section 14C is the
question which	has to	be answered keeping in view the fact that
the legislature, while enacting this provision, manifestly
intended that a landlord who has retired from service of is
likely to retired who	has retired from service of is likely to
retire, would immediately require a house for his own occupation. 18. The phrase "Bona fide need" of Bona fide requirement" occurs
not only in the Delhi Rent Control Act but in the Rent Control
legislation of	other States also. What is the meaning of this
phrase has been considered innumerable times	by various High
Courts as also by this Court and requires no citations to explain
its legal implications. Even then reference may be made to the
decision of this Court	 in Ram	 Das vs. Ishwar Chander & Ors. (1988) 3 SCC 131 = AIR 1988 SC 1122, in which it was indicated
that "bona fide need" should be genuine, honest and conceived in
good faith. It was also indicated that landlord's desire for
possession, however honest it might otherwise be, has,
inevitably, a subjective element in it. The "desire" to become
"requirement" must have the objective element of a "need" which
can be	decided only by taking	 all relevant circumstances into
consideration so that the protection afforded to a tenant is not
rendered illusory or whittled down. These observations were made
in respect of	the provisions	 contained in	E.P. Urban Rent
Restriction Act, 1949. 19. The distinction	between	 "Desire" and	"Need"	was also
considered in Amarjit Singh vs. Khatoon Qamarain , (1986) 4 SCC
736, which construing Section 14(1)(e) of the Act. 20. In Section	 14(1)(e) as also under Section 14C ,	it is the
requirement of	the landlord which constitutes the basis for
tenant's eviction. If the requirement has to be genuine and bona
fide, under Section 14(1)(e) ,	can it	be said	 that because the
words "bona fide" have not been used in Section	14C , the
requirement of the landlord may not be bona fide or genuine. This
meaning, obviously, cannot be given to Section 14C . No landlord,
and even a landlord under Section 14C , can be permitted to come
to Court for eviction of the tenant for his requirement which is
not real, genuine or bona fide. The tenant cannot be evicted on a
false plea of requirement or "feigned requirement". The omission
of the	words "bona fide", therefore,	does not make much of a
difference. 21. Applications of the landlords for eviction of tenants on the
ground of bona fide requirement under Section 14(1)(e) or for
recovery of possession under Section 14A to 14D are disposed of
in the	manner indicated in Chapter IIIA which is headed as
"Summary Trial of Certain Applications". The procedure set out in Section 25B , occurring in that Chapter, indicated that when an
application is made to the Rent Controller and summons are issued
to the	tenant, the latter, namely, the tenant cannot contest the
application of	the landlord for his eviction unless he obtains
Leave under Section 25B(4) , Sub-sections (4),	 (5) and (6) of Section 25B , which are	 relevant for purposes of this case, are
reproduced below : section (1) of section 14 or under section 14A . (6) Where	leave is granted to the
 tenant to	contest the application,
 the Controller shall commence the
 hearing of the application as early
 as practicable." 22. These provisions indicate that in order to obtain leave to
contest the application of the landlord, the tenant has to file
an affidavit stating the grounds on which he proposes to contest
that application. If that affidavit discloses such facts as would
disentitle the	landlord from obtaining an order for the recovery
of possession,	the Controller	would grant leave to the tenant.
once the leave is granted, the application is required to be
disposed of in accordance with the	 practice and	procedure
applicable to a Court	of Small Causes. The order of	 the Rent
Controller finally allowing or dismissing the application of the
landlord for	recovery of possession, has	 not been made
appealable, but	 a Revision has been provided against that order
under Sub-section (8) of Section 25B . 23. Section 25B thus provides	 a uniform procedure for disposal
of the	applications filed either under Section 14(1)(e) , or by
the "classified" landlords under any of the Sections, namely,
14A, 14B 14C or 14D. 24. As against	 the right of the landlord to seek his tenant's
eviction under Section 14C of the Act, the	extent	of right
available to such tenant, in defending those proceedings, may now
be considered. 25. We have already seen that Section 25B provides	a uniform
procedure for both categories	of tenants, namely, those whose
eviction is sought under Section 14(1)(e) and those	 who are
sought to be evicted under Section 14A to 14D . In both the cases,
the tenant has to seek the leave of the Controller to defend the
proceedings by	filing an affidavit, setting out the grounds on
which he proposes to contest the application of the landlord. 26. Concentrating on Section 14C alone and not travelling to
other cognate Section, namely,	 14A, 14B and 14D, a tenant while
seeking permission of the Controller	to defend the	 eviction
proceedings, under Section 25B of the Act, can legitimately raise
the plea, for example,	 that the landlord has either not retired
or was	not likely to retire from service within one year of the
initiation of proceedings or that the landlord, after retirement,
has taken up employment elsewhere or	has been given any other
lucrative assignment including the facility of a "Quarter" or an
assignment commensurate	 with his earlier status and, therefore,
may say	 that the landlord does not require the premises for his
own occupation.	 The tenant may also indicate that the landlord,
in order to augment his income after retirement, wanted only to
let out	 the premises again on higher rent and to save sufficient
portion of rental earnings, the himself had	chosen	or might
chosen to live in a tenanted accommodation on cheaper rent. These
pleas (may be, many more such pleas, as human ingenuity knows no
bounds) would definitely touch	 the "bona fides" of the landlord
and, therefore,	 cannot be denied to a tenant on the ground that
the landlord, having retired from service or likely to retire,
has to	 be presumed to require the accommodation for his own
occupation. 27. Integrating these two factors together, namely, the right of
the landlord to recover immediate possession and the right
available to a tenant to raise pleas in defence to indicate that
the premises, in spite of retirement of likely retirement of the
landlord, are not required by him, what emerges out is that while
the landlord has to establish his "requirement", which means
"real" and not "feigned", the tenant can show that it is not so. 28. In Surjit Singh Kalra vs. Union of India , (1991) 2 SCC 87, a
Three-Judge Bench of this Court laid down as under :- 29. This decision, therefore, concedes to the tenant his right
to defend the proceedings initiated under Section 14C by showing
that the requirement of the landlord was not bona fide. 30. In the above case , an earlier decision in Busching Schmitz
Private Limited	 vs. P.T. Menghani , (1977) 2 SCC 835, which dealt
with the scope of Section 14A of the Act was considered and the
view expressed therein was reiterated by observing as under :- 31. The Court	thus restricted	 the defence of the tenant to the
parameters of Section 14C and placed a further restriction that
the tenant cannot widen the scope of his defence by relying upon Section 14(1)(e) . 32. In another	 case, namely, E.M.C. Steel Ltd., Calcutta vs.
Union of India & Another . (1991) 2 SCC 101, while considering the
provisions of Section 140 under which	 a widow has a	 right to
recover immediate possession of the premises in occupation of a
tenant, it was laid down as under:- 33. The Court , in the above case , did not accept the contention
of the tenant that the privilege given to the widow may be abused
by her and she may make a business of it. The Court held that the
right available	 to a widow under Section 14B can be availed of
only once. The Court also held that the widow like	any other
landlord, has to prove here bona fide need for the occupation of
the premises for her own residence. The Three-Judge Bench thus
reiterated it twice, once in proceeding under Section 14B and
again in proceeding under Section 14D , that even the classified
landlords have to prove their genuine need for the requirement of
the premises in question for their own occupation. 34. The decision in Surjit Singh Kalra 's case (supra) was
considered by this Court in Anand Swaroop Vohra vs. Bhim Sen
Bahri and another , (1994) 5 SCC 372 and was followed explaining,
in the	process, an earlier decision	 in Narain Kahmman vs.
Pradumar Kumar	Jain , (1985) 1 SCC 1, by observing that under Section 14A , the right	 to recover immediate possession can be
exercised by the landlord as soon as he is served with a notice
to vacate the government accommodation allotted to him. In such
proceedings, the landlord, in	view of	 the language employed in
that Section, has not to show that the premises are required for
his own	 residence. On	the contrary, the right available to	a
landlord under Section 14B to 14D is dependent	upon the
requirement to	show that the premises	 shall be occupied by the
landlord for his own residence. The Court did not, therefore,
digress from the view	propounded in Surjit Singh Kalra 's case
(supra) that while the	 landlord has to show	and establish his
bona fide need, the tenant can plead and prove that the premises
were not bona fide required by the landlord. 35. In V. Rajaswari vs. Bombay Tyres Intl. Ltd., (1995) Supp. 3
SCC 172, the Court held that	under Section 15B, the tenant has
practically no	defence whatsoever and has to yield possession if
it is proved that (i) that the landlady is a widow; and (ii) the
premises are required by her for her own residence. 36. In J.P. Hingorani vs. Ash ok Kharbanda and another, (1995)
Supp. 3	 SCC 185, it was laid	 down that if	 a landlord, on
retirement, lets out the premises to a tenant, he cannot initiate
proceedings for the eviction of that tenant under Section 14C but
has to approach the Rent Controller under Section 14(1)(e) as the
fact that the premises	 were let out after retirement indicates
that the immediate need of the landlord has	vanished and the
premises were not required by him for immediate occupation. 37. In	 view	of the	 statutory provisions	discussed above,
specially in view of the fact that while introducing Section 14A to 14D in the	Act, no amendment was made in Section 25B , we may
summarise the legal position relating to eviction in proceedings
landlord under Section 14C , as under : The landlord has also to plead
	 and show that after retirement
	 or likely retirement, no
	 fresh	 assignment has been
	 taken up or is likely to be
	 taken	 up by him with the
	 facility of	a residential
	 "Quarter". (ii) Possession can be recovered by
	 the landlord	only for real,
	 genuine and bona fide need and
	 not for "feigned" need. (ii) Proceedings under Section 14C can be contested only when
	 leave to contest is granted by
	 the Rent Controller;	 whether
	 leave	 would	 be granted or
	 refused would	 depend upon the
	 nature of pleas raised of
	 circumstances	 shown	 by the
	 tenant in his affidavit filed
	 before the Rent Controller. (iv) Section 25B does not place any
	 restriction on the right of
	 the tenant to raise	pleas in
	 defence within the parameters
	 of Section 14C , namely, that
	 he can plead and prove that
	 notwithstanding the retirement
	 or likely retirement	 of the
	 landlord, the premises are not
	 required by him for	his own
	 residence. No	 plea regarding
	 the size of	 the landlord's
	 family or the tenant's own
	 family, whether it was likely
	 to increases with son's
	 marriage or	 decrease with
	 daughter's marriage,	 can be
	 raised by the tenant	 nor can
	 be raise any plea as to the
	 extent of accommodation or
	 floor	 area	or comparative
	 hardship of partial	eviction
	 etc.	 as	 these are
	 considerations which	are not
	 relevant under Section 14C . If, however,	the landlord is
	 already in occupation of his
	 own house, part of which is in
	 occupation of	 a tenant (as in
	 the instant	case) or where
	 whole of the hose, owned by
	 the landlord, is	in his
	 personal occupation	 and he
	 makes	 an application for
	 eviction of a tenant occupying
	 another house, the need of the
	 landlord, with reference to
	 his family strength	and the
	 extent of accommodation, at
	 his disposal,	 will have to be
	 examined vis-a-vis his
	 requirement. (v) Expeditious enquiry	need be
	 held or else the landlord, if
	 he has already retired from
	 service will	be literally on
	 the	"street" during the
	 pendency of	the proceedings
	 which, undoubtedly, take long
	 to conclude	particularly as
	 one party, namely, the tenant,
	 is inherently interested in
	 delayed disposal. I f the
	 tenant was allowed to contest Section 14C application also
	 with that attitude, giving him
	 the liberty	 to place all
	 possible obstacles to retard
	 the pace of the proceedings,
	 legislative	 intent of
	 providing immediate possession
	 of the house to a retired, or
	 likely to retire landlord,
	 would be frustrated. 38. Let us now examine this case in the light of the above
principles. 39. The facts	established in	this case indicate that the
respondent was	a Central Government employee.	 He was last
posted at Delhi as Dy. Chief Engineer, Northern Railway and
retired from service on 23rd	July, 1987. He filed	 the
application under Section 14C within time. He indicated his
choice for the premises in question comprising of the ground
floor, first and second floors. The ground floor is in
occupation of the appellant while the first	 and second
floors are in occupation of the respondent. The respondent
has sought eviction of	 the appellant from the ground floor
on the	ground that the entire premises are required by him,
particularly as	 the accommodation at	 his disposal on the
first and second floors is insufficient. It is pleaded that
while he requires three bed rooms separately for his on,
daughter and for himself and his wife, another room is
required for his office where	 he proposes to carry on
consultancy work after having retired as Deputy Chief
Engineer from the Northern Railway. He also requires another
room for his guests, specially his three sisters who, though
married, quite often visit the respondent, who is their only
brother and after the death of their parents, their brother,
namely the respondent is the only nearest relation whom they
visit on all possible	occasions. For	these reasons,	 the
entire accommodation on the ground floor is needed by the
respondent by	 way of additional	accommodation.	 The
respondent also owns	 another house	 in Delhi. He	 has
explained and established his	 need for this particular
premises for which he	has also indicated his "choice".
Apparently, the	 need appears to be a need falling under Section 14(1)(e) , but the fact remains that the need for
additional accommodation of one room or the ground floor,
which would also include the facility of car-parking, which
the respondent, otherwise, has been parking on the road, has
arisen on his retirement. 40. We	 have also examined the facts set	out by	 the
appellant in his affidavit filed before the Rent Controller
for leave to defend the present proceedings. The pleas, in
our opinion, do not disentitle the landlord from recovering
possession of the premises in question particularly when the
respondent has clearly set out in his petition that although
he owned one more house, he wanted this particular premises
for his	 own need. The choice,	 and, sufficient reasons in
support	 thereof, having thus been	 indicated by	 the
respondent, the	 plea of the appellant about	 alternative
accommodation being available to the	landlord cannot be
sustained. 41. We have, ourselves, examined the facts here to avoid
the agony of a	 protracted litigation by remanding the case
to the	 Rent	Controller, particularly as	 we see no
justification to interfere with the judgment passed by the
High Court by which the appellant has been required to hand-
over vacant possession	 to the respondent. We, however,
provide that before possession is actually delivered to the
respondent, he	shall file an	affidavit before the	Rent
Controller stating, in the form of an undertaking, that no
part of the premises in question comprising of ground floor,
first floor and the second floor shall be let out by him for
one year from the data of taking over possession. In case of
breach of that undertaking, the tenant would become entitled
to regain the possession of the premises on an application
made by him before the Rent Controller. Subject to the above observations, the appeal is
dismissed without any order as to costs.