1. The instant petition has been filed on behalf of the petitioner seeking grant of

 regular bail in respect of the aforementioned FIR. 2. The allegations, in nutshell, are that an amount to the tune of Rs.12,59,000/-,

 which was in the nature of government funds and was meant for payments

 under ' The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act '

 (MGNREGA) Scheme was embezzled by the Sarpanch, Panchayat Secretary,

 Computer Operator and others by way of showing employments of either PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.05.03 16:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M-52112-2022 (O&M) (2) 2023:PHHC:063643

 non-existing persons or in favour of the persons, who are otherwise not

 entitled to be given such employment. The petitioner was working as a

 computer operator when the said scam had taken place. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner being a

 computer operator had no role to play in the employment or disbursement of

 the salaries to the persons employed under 'MGNREGA' scheme and was

 only supposed to maintain the record in computer. Learned counsel for the

 petitioner submits that, in any case, the petitioner in order to prove his

 bonafidies, is willing to deposit an amount of Rs.4 lakhs before the Trial

 Court. 4. Opposing the petition, learned State counsel has submitted that the petitioner

 was very much part and parcel of the scam inasmuch he had been maintaining

 false and fabricated record at the instance of his co-accused and, as such, does

 not deserve the concession of bail. Learned State counsel has, however,

 informed that the petitioner as on date has been behind bars since the last

 more than 10 months. It has also been informed that although challan stands

 presented but charges are yet to be framed and as many as 13 PWs have been

 cited. It has further been informed that the petitioner is not involved in any

 other case. 5. This Court has considered the rival submissions addressed before this Court. 6. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case particularly the fact

 that the petitioner has been behind bars for a substantial period of more than

 10 months and conclusion of trial is likely to consume time inasmuch none

 out of the cited 13 PWs has been examined so far, further detention of the

 petitioner will not serve any useful purpose. The instant petition, as such, is PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.05.03 16:59 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M-52112-2022 (O&M) (3) 2023:PHHC:063643

 allowed and the petitioner is ordered to be released on regular bail on his

 furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the satisfaction of learned trial

 Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned. 7. The petitioner, as per his offer, shall deposit an amount of Rs.4 lakhs before

 the Trial Court/Illaqa Magistrate within a period of 4 weeks from today. Upon

 deposit of such amount, the Trial Court/Illaqa Magistrate shall get the same

 invested in some FDR with some Nationalized Bank with a specific direction

 to Manager of the bank concerned not to entertain any request for encashment

 of the same except under orders of the Court.