The Home Ministry has launched a new portal where victims can report online sexual abuse, rape, gang rape, child abuse, child sexual abuse content anonymously, reports Indian Express. A joint secretary of the Home Ministry said that the portal will help victims and complainants report incidents and stop the online circulation of such content.

Victims or others can provide name of offender, his/her social media profile, username, URL, contact for WhatsApp, Snapchat among others, email address. Significantly, victims/complainants can upload files for evidence and track the status of their complaint on the website. The National Crime Records Bureau will ask intermediaries to remove objectionable content as ask the portal/intermediaries to remove it.

The Ministry also launched the country’s first-ever national database of sexual offenders for the use of law enforcement agencies. The registry includes name, address, photograph and fingerprint for each person on it. The registry is not open for public viewing.

In May 2016, the MHA said that it would launch a similar portal named Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children (CCPWC) under the Nirbhaya Fund. Developed jointly by the Home and Women & Child Development Ministry, it would let Indian women post complaints about online harassment. This came after Women & Child Development Minister Maneka Gandhi stated that online abuse and trolling of women in India should be treated as violence against them.

After the Criminal Law Amendment Act 2018, Home Ministry launched National Database on Sexual Offenders for Law Enforcement agencies & Cybercrime Reporting Portal https://t.co/8DsehdjpK5 to facilitate online & anonymous reporting of Child Pornography & cases related to women. pic.twitter.com/oHygKhOnBh

— Kiren Rijiju (मोदी का परिवार) (@KirenRijiju) September 20, 2018

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event