* 1. By way of the first appeal under Section 28 of Hindu Marriage Act,
1955 (hereinafter referred to as „the Act‟), a challenge has been made to the
impugned judgment and decree dated 30.04.2011 passed by learned ADJ,
Delhi in HMA No. 497/10/05. 2. Briefly stated the facts of the case are that a petition for annulment of
marriage with the appellant under Section 12(1)(c) of the Act was filed
before the learned ADJ by the respondent wherein she had alleged that the
appellant was employed as a „Driver‟ by her father who is a businessman.
She has got two younger brothers and is the only daughter of her parents. The appellant used to drop her at school and also used to bring her back.
She had averred that alleged marriage between the parties was solemnized on
27.08.2004 at Arya Samaj Mandir according to Hindu rites and ceremonies
which was subsequently registered on 17.09.2004. The date of birth of
respondent is 07.08.1986 and had just attained 18 years at the time of alleged
marriage. 3. The respondent had alleged that on 09.03.2003 the appellant had
picked her up from the school as it was the last day of her 11th class
examination and while coming back to the house, the appellant told her that
the mother of his friend was not well and he had to go to the house of his
friend for giving some money. Thereupon he took her to the house of his
friend and asked her to accompany him inside on the pretext that he would
not leave her alone in the area. It is alleged that there he made her sit in a
room and offered her a cold drink containing some intoxicant and on
consuming the same, she became unconscious. Respondent had alleged that
when she regained consciousness she found herself lying nude in the bed and
had pain in her private part. She also saw appellant standing nude, next to
the bed. It is alleged that appellant was having a camera in his hand. He had
also told her that he had physically satisfied himself and had taken her
objectionable photographs and in case she disclosed the same to anyone he
would display her photographs publicly and ruin the reputation of her family.
Respondent had alleged that out of fear, she did not disclose the same to
anyone. 4. The respondent had further alleged that thereafter whenever appellant MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 2 of 17 had found her alone he tried to indulge with her in an obscene behaviour and
sometimes demanded money from her by threatening to defame her. It is
alleged that on few occasions he had extracted money from her by giving
threats to defame her by showing her photographs. 5. It was further alleged that on 27.08.2004 respondent was waiting for
an auto rickshaw as she had to attend the birthday party of her friend. At
that point appellant came in Maruti Car. The appellant had asked her to
accompany him and asked her to sign certain papers and had threatened her
that in case of refusal by her, his friend who was standing outside her house
would distribute the posters of her photographs in the area and would defame
her as well as her family members. It was alleged that under the threat given
to her, she accompanied the appellant to Yamuna Bazar, opposite Hanuman
Mandir where two persons were present i.e., a photographer and a Pandit. It
was alleged that there the appellant had forcibly garlanded her. She had
alleged that their joint photographs were also taken and she was made to sign
certain papers/cards. She had alleged that everything was done there against
her wishes as she was threatened to accompany the appellant there under the
threat/fear of displaying/distributing her photographs. 6. It was further alleged that on 26.09.2004 her parents had to leave to
Shiv Khori. It was alleged that on 24.09.2004 appellant had told her to steal
jewellery of her mother and not to accompany her parents and in their
absence, he would take her out of Delhi. She had alleged that she was
already upset due to the alleged conduct of the appellant and did not act as
per his bidding and went with her parents. On 05.10.2004, when she came MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 3 of 17 back with her parents she had come to know that in their absence Police had
come and was asking for her as well as her parents. Thereafter, on
06.10.2004, she went to Police Station along with her father where they
came to know that a complaint was lodged by the appellant wherein he had
alleged that the respondent was his wife and he wanted to take her to his
house. Respondent was shocked to know the same and as such the matter
was reported to the Police and FIR No. 559/2004 a case under Sections
363 / 366 / 328 / 376 / 384 / 385 IPC was registered at P.S. Anand Vihar against
the appellant. Her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded before
learned MM, Delhi. She had alleged that in order to extort money from her
parents the appellant had lodged a false complaint under Section 97 / 98 of
Cr.P.C against them before the learned MM, Karkardooma Courts and notice
of the said complaint was sent to her father and uncle wherein appropriate
orders were passed and in the meanwhile appellant was arrested in the
aforesaid case and was sent to judicial custody. The respondent had alleged
that the alleged marriage performed on 27.08.2004 was without her consent
and was under pressure and fear of damaging her and her family reputation.
Due to alleged force/threats being extended to her by respondent as such the
same be annulled by a decree of nullity. 7. The appellant had opposed the said petition by filing written statement
by alleging therein that the respondent had concealed true and material facts
from the court. He had alleged that respondent was having love affair with
him and they used to present gifts to each other. He had admitted that at the
relevant time he was employed as a „Driver‟ by the father of respondent. He
had alleged that the marriage was solemnized with the consent of respondent MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 4 of 17 on 27.08.2004 at Arya Samaj Mandir according to Hindu rites and
ceremonies. There was no pressure, fraud or undue influence as was alleged.
The marriage was subsequently registered on 17.09.2004. He had alleged
that their marriage was consummated on the night of the marriage i.e. on
27.08.2004 in the bed room of the respondent in her parents‟ house where
the respondent had herself called him. Appellant had further alleged that
even thereafter he had sex relations with her number of times as she was
staying in her parents‟ house due to her 12th class examination. He had
further alleged that on 23.09.2004 he got a telephonic call from the
respondent. Thereafter he had gone to her house where he came to know
that the parents of respondent had come to know of their marriage. Her
other relatives were also present. They had all given him beatings and threw
him out of the house. Thereupon, he had to file a complaint under Section
97 / 98 Cr.P.C. before learned ACMM on 27.09.2004 for issuance of search
warrant of the premises of the parents of respondent for handing over the
custody of the respondent to him. On 29.09.2004 search warrants were
issued. However, it is alleged that police officials colluded with her parents
and impleaded him in a false case vide FIR registered above. Thereupon
appellant was arrested and sent to custody. It was alleged that the
respondent had filed the petition under the pressure of her parents. 8. The respondent had filed the replication denying the allegations made
by the appellant against him. She had reiterated the averments made in the
petition. In the replication she had given the description of her house as well
as details of her family members and had alleged that considering the layout
of her house it was impossible to enter in her house without being noticed by MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 5 of 17 other family members. 9. On the pleadings of the parties, following issues were framed:- 10. To substantiate her case, the respondent had filed her own affidavit as
well as that of her father Satish Arora. They both were examined as PW1
and 2 respectively. On the other hand, the respondent had filed his affidavit
and had examined himself as RW1. Besides himself, he had also examined
4 witnesses i.e. Balbir Kumar RW2, R.K. Singh RW3, Dinesh Kumar RW4
and Ashok Yadav RW5. 11. After hearing the counsel for parties and considering the material on
record, the Ld.ADJ allowed the petition. Aggrieved with the same, present
appellant is filed. 12. Learned counsel for appellant has contended that allegations against
the appellant are that on 09.03.2004 he had raped the respondent and took
her photographs in nude condition and on the basis of those alleged
photographs, he was blackmailing her by extending threats and got married
with her and then got registered the marriage. It is contended that alleged
incident had not taken place on 29.3.2004. It is contended that on the basis MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 6 of 17 of aforesaid allegations FIR No. 559/2004 was registered with P.S. Anand
Vihar under Sections 363 / 328 / 376 / 366 / 384 IPC was registered against the
appellant and in the said case the appellant has been acquitted by the learned
Sessions Court vide judgment dated 20.3.2006 Ex.RW 1/4. It is contended
that once the appellant was acquitted in the aforesaid case, the trial court
ought not have relied upon the evidence of respondent in respect of aforesaid
allegations and thereby allowing the petition by holding that the consent for
marriage was obtained by force, fraud and undue influence. 13. It is further contended that even assuming that the said evidence can
be taken into consideration, the same does not establish the alleged incident
of 09.03.2004. It is contended that alleged photographs are not produced on
record by the respondent. Her evidence is also shaky. It is further contended
that on the other hand there is ample evidence on record to establish that the
respondent was having love affair with the appellant and she married him of
her own consent and thereafter got the same registered vide Ex.PW1/R3. It
is contended that the evidence led by the appellant also establishes that their
marriage was duly consummated. In these circumstances, finding of the
Ld.ADJ that the consent of respondent for marriage was obtained by threat,
force and coercion is perverse. It is further contended that the finding of
the learned trial court that there was no valid ceremonies for the marriage
was not in question and learned ADJ ought not have gone into that aspect of
the matter. 14. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondent has contended that finding
of the Sessions Court in aforesaid criminal case has no relevancy in the MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 7 of 17 present case. It is contended that same are not binding on the Civil Court.
Learned Senior counsel for the respondent has relied upon the judgment of
the Supreme Court in Krishan Chand Vs. Gopal Singh 2010(8) SCC 775. It
is further contended that there is no perversity or illegality in the impugned
order as is alleged. 15. The contention of appellant that finding of criminal court vide
judgment dated 20.3.2006 wherein appellant has been acquitted was binding
on the learned ADJ, Delhi, has been considered. It may be mentioned that
the matrimonial proceedings, under the Hindu Marriage Act are civil in
nature where standard of proof is different as compared to criminal
proceedings. In civil cases, it is preponderance of probabilities while in the
criminal cases, it is proof beyond reasonable doubt. Reference is made to
the judgment of the Supreme Court in Krishan Chand Vs. Gopal Singh 2010(8) SCC 775, wherein it is held as under:- In view of the above legal position, the contention raised has no force. 16. The stand of the respondent before the trial court was that her consent
for marriage was obtained by force/fraud whereas the stand of the appellant
was that there was no kind of pressure on her and she married him
voluntarily. To substantiate her stand, respondent had filed her own affidavit
Ex.PW 1/1 wherein she had stated that appellant was a driver of her father
and sometimes he used to drop her at school. It is stated that on 9th March,
2004 she was a minor. On that day, appellant had come to pick her up at
school as it was a last day of 11th class examination. While coming back,
appellant requested her that he had to go to the house of his friend as the
mother of his friend was not well and he had to give some money to them.
He also told that it would take only half an hour. Thereupon respondent took
the car towards Loni Road in U.P. There he stopped the car in front of one
of the lined up flats and asked her to accompany her as he would not allow
her to remain in the car. She had stated in detail as to how he took her
inside the flat and made her sit in the room and had given her something to
drink and thereafter she became unconscious. When she regained her
consciousness, she found her in a state of shock and respondent told her that
he had taken her photographs in an objectionable position and had satisfied
himself physically and also threatened not to disclose it to anyone otherwise
he would distribute the photographs in public. She had also stated in the
affidavit Ex.PW 1/1 as to how appellant misused her later on the pretext of
showing her photographs being displayed in the public. She had also stated
that on 27.8.2004 when she was going somewhere to attend the birthday of MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 9 of 17 her friend, appellant came in a Maruti car and threatened her that she would
accompany her wherever he was taking her. He had also took her signatures
on some blank papers. She has deposed that she had agreed for the same as
appellant had threatened her that his friends were standing outside her house
and they would distribute her photographs in the area and under the threat
and fear, she accompanied him to Arya Samaj Mandir Yamuna Bazar
opposite Hanuman Mandir where there was one photographer and one
pandit. There appellant forcibly garlanded her and drapped dupatta like a
marriage dress around her and their joint photographs were taken. She was
made to sign some blank papers. At that time, she was too young and she
had just completed 18 years and marriage was performed under threat and
fear and she had agreed to whatever she was asked by the appellant as she
had a fear that he would distribute her photographs in the area and would
defame her and her family members. 17. Appellant had cross-examined her at length. In cross-examination,
she had given the colour of camera. She had also stated that appellant had
threatened her that if she disclosed the said fact to any one, he would
distribute her photographs in the colony. She has also deposed in the cross-
examination that appellant was not residing in her house. She had denied
having gone to Karkardooma courts before going to Arya Samaj Mandir.
She had deposed that her signatures were taken on blank paper i.e., on
affidavit Ex.PW 1/R4. She had also denied the stand of appellant taken in
written statement which was put to her by way of suggestion in cross-
examination. Despite lengthy cross-examination, her material deposition to
the effect that her consent was obtained under threat and fear was not MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 10 of 17 demolished in cross-examination. 18. The stand of the appellant was that his marriage was duly
consummated on 27.8.2004 with the consent of the respondent. Appellant
had stated in affidavit Ex.RW1/A that he had enjoyed conjugal bliss/sex with
her for a period of 25 days. He had narrated as to how respondent used to
call her in her room in a secret manner. Respondent in her evidence denied
having sexual relationship as deposed by the appellant. She had also proved
on record site plan of her house. According to the said site plan Ex.PW 1/1,
it was not possible to enter in the room of the respondent as was deposed by
the appellant. Appellant in his evidence had admitted the correctness of the
said site plan. 19. The abovesaid deposition of appellant stand demolished by the stand
taken in petition under section 9 of the HMA i.e., RW 1/PX which was filed
by the appellant against the respondent on 31.5.2006 wherein he had alleged
that their marriage was duly consummated on 27.8.2004 at the parental
house of the respondent and the appellant continued to stay in the said house
from 29.7.2004 to 20.9.2004 as `Ghar Jamai‟ temporarily on the request of
the respondent till her examination. If the above version was to be believed,
in that event, had he been living as Ghar Jamai as was stated in his evidence,
there was no occasion for the respondent to call him in her room in a secret
manner as was stated by him in affidavit Ex.RW1/A. 20. Further, in the complaint dated 27.9.2004 under section 97 / 98 of
Cr.P.C i.e., Ex.RW1 P/Z1 filed by appellant before learned MM, he had MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 11 of 17 stated that respondent did not join him after marriage as her examination was
going on. In the said complaint, nothing was stated about the alleged
consummation of marriage between the parties or their alleged cohabition as
was deposed by the appellant in his evidence. 21. The above discussion shows that appellant had taken different stands
in different proceedings. In these circumstances, the evidence of appellant
about alleged consummation of marriage to show that consent of respondent
for marriage was voluntary cannot be taken into consideration. 22. Further, by way of affidavit Ex.RW1/A , appellant had stated that on
23.9.2004, respondent had made a telephonic call to him at about 11 or 11.30
am and called him at his residence. When he reached there, respondent
informed that her parents had come to know about the marriage. At that
time, family members of the respondent were present there along with uncle,
namely, Kamal and two-three persons. The family members of respondent
did not accept the marriage and they were very upset and angry and uncle of
respondent, namely, Kamal and other two-three persons had given beatings
to him and had thrown him out while respondent was confined by them
despite the fact that she wants to join him. 23. In the petition Ex.RW1/PX under section 9 of the HMA, the appellant
has taken a stand that on 23.9.2004, respondent told her parents and relatives
about their marriage in his presence. On hearing this, they became angry
and a quarrel had taken place between the appellant and parents of the
respondent and they pressurized him to either shift in their house MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 12 of 17 permanently otherwise, they would not accept the marriage. The relevant
para of petition Ex.RW1/PX is reproduced as under:- 24. In cross-examination of present case, a version had been given by
appellant wherein he had stated that the parents of respondent had come to
know of alleged marriage on 23.9.2004 as he received a message on his
mobile from respondent at about 2.30 pm. He had also stated that
respondent also gave a telephonic call to him from her mobile. He had
admitted in cross examination that respondent was not having any mobile
phone. He had further stated in cross-examination that when he went to
respondent‟s home, he did not find any one. Then he went at the house of
her uncle namely Kamal, father of respondent, one Vidya Rattan and few
other ladies were present. But respondent was not there as she was taken by
her family members. They all had abused him. A quarrel had taken place
and he was turned out of the house. 25. It is noted that appellant has also given different versions at different
stages as to how the parents of respondent had come to know of alleged MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 13 of 17 marriage. He is not a reliable person. His evidence is not worthy of
credence, as such, cannot be taken into consideration. 26. The appellant had also taken a stand that respondent used to send
messages him on his mobile phone. Mr.R.K.Singh (RW3) from Bharti Airtel
was summoned to produce the relevant record but the said witness could not
produce the record as the record was destroyed. The said witness is of no
help to the appellant. 27. The appellant had also relied upon greeting card/valentine day card
Ex.PW 1/R2 to show that respondent was in love with him and had sent the
said cards to him. The appellant in cross-examination admitted that the
cards on record did not bear his name. The appellant could not state in the
evidence as when the same were given to him. In these circumstances, the
Ld.trial court has rightly not taken into consideration the said piece of
evidence. 28. To substantiate the stand that respondent had consented for marriage,
appellant had relied upon marriage photographs Ex.PW 1/R1 (colly),
affidavits of respondent for the alleged marriage dated 27.08.2004
i.e.Ex.PW1/R4. The original affidavits which were attested by the Notary
Public RW-5 Sh.Ashok Yadav were not produced before him and only
photocopy of the affidavit Ex.PW1/R4 was put to the witness. The evidence
of Notary Public Sh. Ashok Yadav, RW-5 was recorded through a Local
Commissioner as he had sustained injuries. He had stated that the signatures
and thumb impression of parties appear in the Register Ex.RW 5/1 along MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 14 of 17 with photographs of the parties. The stand of respondent was that her
signatures were taken on certain blank papers. However, it was observed by
the learned trial court that entries in respect of attestation of affidavits of
other parties in the register were there maintained by Sh.Ashok Yadav, RW-
5 but no photographs of other parties were affixed and only in the present
case photographs of the parties were affixed which did not bear the signature
of the parties nor their thumb impressions were there on the said photographs
or behind the same and it was a over doing as such the said evidence was
doubtful. In these circumstances even the aforesaid evidence is of no help to
the appellant. 29. Even about registration of marriage vide certificate Ex.PW1/R3, RW-
2 had deposed that he had no knowledge as to who had come to their office
for submitting the form as well as who was present at the relevant time.
Similarly RW-4 could not also tell as to who had filed the relevant affidavits
i.e., Ex.PW4/1 and Ex.PW 4/2. He admitted in cross-examination that
affidavits Ex.PW4/1 and Ex.PW 4/2 were not prepared or signed in his
presence. Further the stand of respondent throughout is that she had signed
certain blank papers and had gone with the appellant as he had extended
threats of displaying her objectionable photographs in the public. The
aforesaid evidence is also of no help to the appellant. 30. The evidence discussed above establishes that consent of respondent
for the marriage was not voluntary. 31. The learned ADJ has also held that there were no valid ceremonies for
marriage. The evidence on this aspect has also been considered. The MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 15 of 17 aforesaid finding is based on evidence on record. The grievance of the
appellant is that as the same were not questioned, the learned ADJ ought not
have given finding on the same. Even if the said finding has been given, the
same is not a ground to set aside the impugned judgment. 32. In Anju Sharma vs. Suresh Kumar : 67(1997) DLT 127, wherein the
facts are almost similar, this court has observed as under:- mean. "Fraud" has been explained under the Marriage Laws
 (Amendment) Act, 1976 in relation to the nature and
 ceremonies or as to any material fact or circumstances
 concerning the respondent. For example, if a person is
 forced to go through a ceremony of marriage under threat or
 duress or in state of intoxication without any real consent of
 marriage, such a marriage is invalid because of practicing
 fraud. The test of validity is the real consent to the marriage
 as described by Rayden on Irvance 10th Edition page 98. The above judgment is also relied by the Ld.ADJ in the impugned
judgment. 33. In Kunta Devi vs. Siri Ram Kulu Ram : AIR 1963 PH 235, the
Punjab and Haryana High Court has held as under:- 34. In Brijender Bir Singh vs. Mst.Vinod alias Parinder: AIR 1995
P&H 42, while deciding an appeal challenging dismissal of petition filed for
annulment of marriage under section 12(1)(c) of the Act, it has been held
that it is not necessary that consent is obtained by practicing fraud at the time
of solemnization of marriage. It is enough if it was obtained even at earlier
stage. 35. Considering the totality of evidence on record including the age of
respondent at the relevant time, the finding of the learned ADJ that the
consent of respondent for marriage was not free and same was obtained by
force and coercion cannot be said to be perverse. On the basis of evidence,
the learned ADJ has rightly annulled the marriage. No illegality or
perversity is seen in the impugned order. The appeal stands dismissed. There is no order as to costs. VEENA BIRBAL, J
January 30, 2013
ssb/kks MAT.APP.No.57/2011 Page 17 of 17