1. The present petition has been filed to seek quashing of FIR No.
87/2016 dated 10.06.2016 under Sections 420 / 120-B / 34 IPC and Sections
4/ 5/ 6 of PC & MCSB Act, registered by EOW Delhi and the proceedings
arising therefrom, and in the alternative, compound the offence as against
the petitioners. 2. The case concerns - what is claimed to be, a Multi-Level Marketing
(MLM) Company called Vihaan Direct Selling Private Limited (hereinafter
'the Company'/ 'accused Company'), accused of cheating and fraud by
running a money circulation scheme through an unauthorized and faulty
business module. Petitioners No. 1 and 2 are current shareholders of the
Company, while the Petitioner No. 3 and 4 are ex-directors of the Company. 3. The petitioners submit that the business carried on by the Company,
in short, is that products of different kinds are allegedly sold through
independent contractors known as "Independent Representatives" (IRs),
who are enrolled as part of the company, allegedly, without collection of any
deposit, fee or money for same. These IRs are given authority to deal with
consumers and sell the products of the company to third parties. Depending
upon the value of products sold and number of persons referred by such IRs
who, in turn, buy products of the company, and also depending upon the
value of products sold by the referred IRs, commission is paid to the IRs. 4. The petitioners submit that information about the nature of the
business of the company is available on its web site. The agreements with
the IRs are in the nature of independent contracts, which are also available
on its website. Every agreement which the Company enters into with every
purchaser, contains a clause disclosing the refund policy of the company.
Anybody who is unhappy with the product sold by the Company can seek
refund within a period of 30 days, upon which the money is refunded. It is
further submitted that the company had complied with all the necessary
statutory registrations. Permissions/ registrations were obtained from over
20 authorities. The Company has returned nearly 90 Crores to those W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 2 of 20 customers who were unhappy with its product. The Company has also paid
direct and indirect taxes to the tune of Rs. 292 Crores for the financial year
beginning from 2013 till the last financial year. 5. The case of the petitioners is that the present allegations are in relation
to the alleged misrepresentations made by some Independent
Representatives of the Company, and not by the Company and the
petitioners in particular. The aforesaid FIR is registered pursuant to a
complaint dated 4.3.2016 made by the second respondent, in which four
persons are named as accused, namely (a) Vihaan Direct Selling India
Private Limited, (b) Mr. Himanshu Aggarwal, (c) Ms. Anita Jaggi and (d)
Ms. Kanika. The amount involved as shown in the FIR, is to the extent of
Rs. 6.5 Lakhs. 6. The case of the complainant in the FIR is that the complainant was
approached by his friend called one Mr. Himanshu Aggarwal who is an
"Independent Representative" of the accused Company for a business
opportunity and upon enquiry, Himanshu Aggarwal, the second accused
informed the complainant that this is an E-Commerce business. He
specifically denied that the business opportunity provided by the said
company was that of Network Marketing. On 29.11.2015, accused 2 to 4, as
named in the FIR met the complainant requiring him to invest Rs. 6.5 Lakhs.
It was also represented to the complainant that without payment of money
the company website could not be accessed by him. It is the version of the
complainant that since he was not able to arrange Rs. 6.5 Lakhs, he did not
want to opt in. However, after representation by one of the named accused
that he could join with whatever amount he has arranged, the former handed W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 3 of 20 over Rs. 4.5 Lakhs to the named accused on 4.12.2015, and another cheque
of Rs. 2 Lakhs in name of co-accused was also handed over on 8.12.2015.
After payment of the said amount the complainant realised that it was a
network marketing company. Consequently, he demanded back his money
from the named accused and was informed that he could only get it back by
earning commission which is given if new members are brought in. The
complainant claimed that a new email id was registered by the accused
persons on their portal through which the products were purchased by using
his money in the name of one Anita Jaggi at her address. It is then alleged
that the complainant wrote to QNET worldwide and got a refund of Rs. 1
Lac. Other refunds were allegedly refused on the ground that he had
demanded them after 7 days of purchase of products. Further, refund of Rs.
21,000/- in cash was given by one the named accused, Mr. Himanshu
Aggarwal. The complainant also learnt that the said group previously
operated MLM scheme in India under the name of Gold Quest International
Pvt. Ltd. against which action was initiated by Government of India in 2009.
This resulted in closing of operations of the said company after duping lakhs
of people. 7. Subsequent to the aforesaid complaint dated 04.03.16 of Mr. Anuj
Jain and 15 other complainants, a preliminary inquiry was conducted. The
contents of the same have been reproduced later along with that of the status
reports relied upon by the prosecution. 8. The submission of Mr. Sudhir Nandrajog, learned senior counsel for
the Petitioners is that, the Petitioner Nos.1 & 2 are the shareholders, and
Petitioner Nos.3 & 4 are the ex-directors of the accused Company. The W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 4 of 20 shareholders are based out of Mumbai and have absolutely no role to play in
day to day affairs and management of the Company. Petitioner No.4 had
resigned from directorship as far back as on September 2013, while
Petitioner No.3 also resigned as a Director in 2014. Mr. Nandrajog submits
that no allegations have been made against the petitioners in their personal
capacity. The complainants do not claim to have been induced,
misrepresented or defrauded by the petitioners. The misrepresentations, if
any, were allegedly made by the Accused Nos. 2 to 4 and that to at least 6-8
months before the registration of the FIR and, therefore, neither the ex
directors (having resigned much before the alleged offence), nor the
shareholders can be held responsible. 9. Mr. Nandrajog, submits that this is the fifth set of complaints made
against the petitioners - either through the Independent Representatives, of
the accused company or others. The petitioners have, in numerous pleadings
filed before different courts- namely, Bangalore, Mumbai, Telangana,
Andhra Pradesh, as also before the Supreme Court, disclosed as to how
these complaints are motivated at the behest of business rivals. 10. Mr. Sudhir Nandrajog avers that shareholders or ex-directors of a
company cannot be held vicariously liable for an offence allegedly
committed by that company. He places reliance on the Maksudv. State of
Gujarat, (2008) 5 SCC 668, wherein the Supreme Court, inter alia,
observed: 11. He also placed reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court in Sunil
Bharti Mittal vs. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2015) 4 SCC 609,
wherein in Para 44 the Supreme Court observed: 12. Mr. Nandrajog submits that Petitioner Nos.1 & 2, being mere
shareholders of the company, are investors in the company. Their interest is
restricted to receiving a share in profits of the company by way of dividends W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 6 of 20 to the extent of their shareholding in the company. He further submits that
shareholders are not the signatories of the financial statements of the
company and are not concerned with the day-to-day administration of the
company. 13. Mr. Nandarjog further submits that there is no question of
inducement by the petitioners to anyone, much less the complainant, as the
petitioners have not enrolled themselves as IRs of the Company. All the
products of the petitioner are displayed on the Company's website and any
person while making a purchase can go through all the details of the
products on offer and make an informed choice. Only thereafter an order is
placed by the IR/customer on the website. The payment is made through
credit card/debit card/demand draft and subsequently the product is
delivered to the customer. If the customer is not satisfied with the product
delivered, he/she has an option to return the product within 30 days and seek
a full refund as per the Company's refund policy. On account of such
transparent business procedure, Mr. Nandrajog submits that there could be
no intention to defraud anyone, or cause wrongful loss to the customers and,
therefore, no dishonest act is said to have been committed by the petitioners
and no case of cheating is made out against them. 14. On the other hand, learned Additional Standing Counsel (ASC) for
the State Ms. Richa Kapoor has extensively read and relied upon the two
status reports dated 30.11.2016 and 16.01.2017. She submits that the
complainant, Mr. Anuj Jain, who invested like 15 other complainants lost
monies ranging between Rs.1.5 Lakhs to Rs.10 Lakhs each, have
complained that QNET India company is involved in money circulation W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 7 of 20 schemes through another company Vihaan Direct Selling India Limited i.e.
the accused company, trapping the general public on the pretext of starting
an e-commerce business and later on forcing them to make more members
in the MLM scheme so as to recover their investment. The Status Reports
revealed that fraud is being committed by the Malaysia Based company
which was earlier banned in India and now operating in another name i.e.
under the name of Vihaan Direct Selling India Ltd. The EOW, Mumbai is
already investigating against this company in a case registered in 2013. 15. Ms. Kapoor submits that during investigation more victims have come
forward and given their complaints. So far more than 65 complaints have
been received and are being investigated. She states that the complainant
was induced by the accused persons to pay an amount of Rs. 4.50 lakhs
which was paid through a cheque and one of the accused, as per the
complainant, had filled the name of Vihaan Direct Selling India Pvt.
Ltd./accused Company in the given cheque. She submits that the
investigation shows that the complainant was called by the accused persons
for training at Kalkaji Delhi in a hotel where around 20-25 clients/new
members were also present with an organizer, named as Vrishad. They were
then informed to keep a record of 500 near and dear persons who could be a
part of the said MLM scheme. When the complainant said he could not give
false assurances, the complainant was given his portfolio ID and a login id
password. Complainant later learnt of fraud cases being registered against
the QNET Company (predecessor of present accused company), so he asked
for his money to be returned. Ms Kapoor states that the investigation shows
that the e-mail, " [email protected] " was created by the IRs without W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 8 of 20 the complainant's consent, and this email address was used for the purchases
made by the IRs in his name. The email was later changed and was used in
the portal so that he could not get any information regarding any purchases
being made by the IRs, and further disabling him to apply for a refund. 16. The status reports reveal that the in some of the purchase confirmation
receipts, which have also been brought on record by Ms. Kapoor, the
shipping address of the complainant has been displayed as "K-47 Jangpura
Ext Delhi 110014 British Virgin Is.," for the purchase of some products,
while some products are shown to be shipped at an address in Dubai
showing his contact number as "971555532884" and address as "c/o
Srinivasan Raghavan Flat No.204 building no.R-444 near 7 days Super
Market Karama Dubai UAE". A perusal of these receipts show that orders
have been placed using the email id "anujjai., [email protected] " which, as
aforementioned, has not been created by the complainant. Further, two
watches, one vacation package and two Cristal pendants have been shown as
purchased by the complainant, which was without his instructions. He, along
with other complainants/victims have never received or been given anything
as specified in the purchase orders so far. 17. The status reports states that a perusal of the recorded statements of
other victims; the emails received by them; and screenshots of the web
portal showing purchases made by these victims, discloses a common
Modus Operandi adopted by the accused persons to trap people to invest
money. The Modus Operandi of QNET or Vihaan Direct Selling (India)
Pvt. Ltd. adopted in recruiting new persons in these companies, as provided
in the status reports and explained by Ms. Kapoor, , in effect, is as follows:- 18. Ms. Kapoor submits that after examination of other victims who were
trapped by IRs of QNET/Vihaan Direct Selling (India) Pvt. Ltd., it was
found that Vihaan is the Indian franchise of QNET Ltd. Hong Kong. She
submits that Vihaan Company and QNET are acting in connivance with W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 11 of 20 each other to cheat and defraud the public at large. She relies on the domain
names "www.qnetindia.in" and "www.qnetindia.net" which were registered
through the domain name providing company "Net4India" in the name of
the accused company, and not QNET Ltd. On investigation, Net4india
provided the address details of the company which applied for the said
domain names as:- " QNETINDIA, Srinivas Venka, Unit No.S02, 22nd floor
WTC Bengaluru Brigrade Gateway Campus, 26/1 Dr Rajkumar road,
Malleshavaram West Bengaluru, Karnataka, Ph-9901530200, e-mail id [email protected] & [email protected] . Ms. Kapoor
submits that Srinivas Rao Venka, as aforementioned, is one of the accused
herein. Ms Kapoor further submitted that the accused Company had applied
for renewal of the aforesaid domain names. The IP address used for this
purpose has been revealed to be the address of the accused Company i.e.:- " 19. Ms. Kapoor submits that investigation of the bank account details of
the accused company shows that it was opened very recently on 18.12.2015
and within a span of six months, about Rs.56 crores was found to be
deposited in this account. She submits that it has also been learnt that there
are several other bank accounts of the accused Company as well. Ms.
Kapoor states that the accused Company has been incorporated by its
promoters/ shareholders, since the fraud and cheating committed by their
companies had been unearthed, and they could not carry out their fraudulent W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 12 of 20 activities in the name of the erstwhile company. The petitioners accused
thus incorporated the accused company to carry on the same fraudulent
activities under a different outfit. She submits that the accused Company
belongs to a QI group of companies functioning in Malaysia which
happened to be working in India earlier through one company called
"Goldquest International Pvt Ltd" in Chennai registered in 2001. She
submits that a number of complaints were received against the said company
which lead to the registration of an FIR, further leading to closing of the
business of Goldquest. This subsequently led to the formation of another
company called "Questnet Enterprises India Pvt. Ltd." at the same address
of Goldquest in Chennai in 2005. The directors of Goldquest were made
directors in Questnet Enterprises. The status reports show that it was alleged
that these directors have been involved in Money Circulation schemes only,
though camouflaged as a business, and more than 32,000 complaints have
been filed against the company, Questnet Enterprises. It is further revealed
that an investigation was ordered by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
(MCA) against the two abovementioned companies through SFIO (Serious
Fraud Investigation Office under MCA) which filed a 500 page report
recording the Multi Level Marketing and Pyramid Marketing schemes
floated by the said companies. These companies had enrolled around
2,39,484 individuals out of which about 2,20,000 persons had allegedly lost
their money. Thus, now Vihaan is the next company which is being used by
QI Group Malaysia to endorse and promote their fraud in India as the earlier
companies, Goldquest and Questnet Enterprises have been prosecuted. The
accused company has been receiving investments amounting to Rs. 1 lakh to W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 13 of 20 Rs.10 lakhs - camouflaged as a business showing purchase of various
products, mostly in the form of travel packages. 20. Ms. Kapoor submits that the petitioners, Michael Ferreira, Malckom
Desai, Magaral Balaji and Vanka Srinivas Rao are all associated with QNET
since long back. Petitioners Nos. 1 & 2, Malckom Desai and Michael
Ferreira were earlier IRs (Independent Representative) of Questnet
Enterprises (India) Pvt. Ltd., while Petitioner Nos.3 & 4, Vanka Srinivas
Rao and Magaral Balaji were officers in the same company Questnet
Enterprises (India) Pvt. Ltd. She submits that considering their long
relationship with QNET, accused Michael Ferreira and Malckom Desai
formed another company in the name of Vihaan Direct Selling (India) Pvt.
Ltd. holding 100% stake in the said company, (Michael Ferreira having a
80% share holding while Malckom Desai having the remaining 20%
shareholding). Petitioner Nos.3 & 4 were made Directors, for the period 14-
12-2011 to 23-09-2013 and 13-8-2013 to 23-09-2014 respectively, of the
accused Company. Ms Kapoor submits that by virtue of this relationship,
and positions occupied by the Petitioners with QNET and Vihaan, the
petitioners have full knowledge and control over the activities of the accused
Company, and are directly involved in the fraud, with an intention to cheat
the general public. 21. The petitioners are also involved in a case of cheating in FIR
No.316/2013 dated 16-08-2013 u/s 420 / 120-B IPC and Sections 3 , 5 , 6 of the
Prize Chits and Money Circulation (Banning) Act, 1978 which is being
investigated by EOW, Mumbai. The petitioners had applied for anticipatory
bail in the said FIR which the Bombay High Court rejected vide its order W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 14 of 20 dated on 6th May 2016. Further, the petitioners applied for anticipatory bail
to the Supreme Court which was dismissed and they were directed to
surrender before the concerned court. Ms. Kapoor submits that a transfer
application was moved in the Sessions Court MPID, Mumbai which was
allowed and the petitioners were transferred from Taloja Jail, Mumbai to the
Court of CMM/New Delhi District after issuance of transfer warrants.
Subsequently the FIR No.87/2016 (subject FIR) was registered at the EOW,
Delhi. 22. Ms. Kapoor submits that an FIR is not an encyclopaedia of all the
relevant facts, but is only an instrument to set the criminal machinery in
motion. The fact that the FIR does not contain the names of the petitioners
does not mean that the petitioners have no role to play in the aforesaid
fraudulent transaction. The investigation is still at its nascent stage and is
being conducted to establish the complete nexus between all those involved.
The aspect of money laundering - in and outside the country, and the
petitioners' specific involvement in the same is also being investigated. She
states that the writ petition should be dismissed since the accused
persons/petitioners are not only the beneficiaries of the fraudulent earnings,
but also the brain behind the business. 23. Mr. Nandrajog, in his rejoinder, submits that the status reports relied
upon by the State contain no material evidence to establish the alleged direct
inducement made by the petitioners to the victims. He submits that
entrustment is a mandatory requirement before an offence of cheating can be
established. He reiterates that the petitioners are not direct beneficiaries of
the said schemes. He submits that the petitioners were IRs of Questnet W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 15 of 20 which has now closed its operations, and not Vihaan. He admitted that the
petitioners were promoters of Vihaan - holding a 100% stake in the
company, but submitted that the people involved in the execution of the
MLM scheme were the IRs and not the promoters. The promoters were not
responsible for the working out of the scheme. Thus, the mismanagement of
the said scheme has been done at the behest of the IRs, and the petitioners
cannot be held liable for the same. 24. Having heard the learned senior counsel for the Petitioners as well as
the learned ASC and perused the FIR and the status reports on record, I am
not inclined to quash the FIR in question and the criminal proceedings
arising therefrom at this stage, in light of the facts of the present case and the
materials unearthed so far during the investigation conducted till now. 25. The case involves a multi-victim scam. It appears that cognizable
offence of cheating is made out by the complainants/ victims against the
accused Company and its IRs. The modus operandi of the accused - as
explained; the purchase confirmation receipts brought on record; the earlier
proceedings instituted against the earlier Avatar of the accused Company
promoted by the same beneficiaries/ promoters prima facie indicate that
offences of cheating, dishonest inducement and criminal breach of entrusted
property has been made out. 26. As per the facts brought on record, it is not disputed that the accused
company come s from the same stable as QNET Ltd. In fact, a perusal of the
QNET Policies and Procedure which have been produced on record by the
petitioners states that "The Company (Vihaan Direct Selling (India) Pvt. Ltd.) is a franchisee of QNet Ltd. (Hong Kong) for the distribution of QNET
products within the territory of India". Further, the status reports reveal that
Vihaan and QNET Ltd. are associated with companies called QuestNet
Enterprises and Goldquest International. These companies have further been
stated to have a common business module like that of the accused Company.
The petitioners herein, admittedly, have been the IRs in QuestNet and are
now involved in the accused Company as either promoters/ shareholders or
directors of the accused Company. They have been involved in floating the
said MLM scheme. These facts indicate the probability of the petitioners
having knowledge of the alleged fraudulent transactions being undertaken
through the IRs of the accused Company and of being direct or indirect
beneficiaries of the same. The IRs are enrolled and then tutored/ trained
into trapping others into the money circulation scheme. The IRs have no
option, but to - unwittingly, fall in line and carry out the fraudulent scheme
of the company. It also prima facie appears that the scheme floated and
operated by the accused is only a money circulation scheme and not a MLM
scheme, since no actual products or services appear to have been sold or
delivered to the customers. This is evident from the modus operandi
adopted by the accused in providing incorrect/ fictitious addresses and
phone numbers. Pertinently, the accused have not even claimed that goods/
services have been delivered at such fictitious addresses. 27. The petitioners were IRs of the company Questnet Enterprises which
was also prosecuted and has currently terminated its operations. The same
petitioners have founded Vihaan Direct Selling (India) Pvt. Ltd. which is
accused of cheating and dishonestly inducing victims to invest monies in a W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 17 of 20 fraudulent business by camouflaging it as an e-commerce business. Such
facts further strengthen the possibility that the petitioners having a nexus
with such fraudulent transactions. 28. Mr Nandrajog has submitted that the evidence collected through
investigation does not establish inducement of the victims by the petitioners
in the alleged fraudulent transactions. It is well established that this Court,
while exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the CrPC or Art. 226 of
the Constitution of India cannot enquire into the veracity of the statements
and evidence brought on record by the investigation to establish the
involvement of the accused persons in the offence. 29. In State of A.P. vs. Golconda Linga Swamy and Anr. , (2004) 6 SCC
522, the Supreme Court, while setting aside the order of the High Court of
Andhra Pradesh quashing the FIR, observed: 30. The Supreme Court also considered the scope of this Court's
jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code to quash the FIR. The Supreme
Court held that the said power should be exercised sparingly, and that too in
the rarest of rare cases. The Supreme Court further observed that: 31. The petitioners No.1 and 2 are the primary beneficiaries, and
petitioner Nos.3 and 4 were, at the relevant time, at the pinnacle of the
accused Company, and were maintaining positions due to which they were
in charge of and responsible for the functioning of the Company. Their role
and involvement in the alleged offence has to be ascertained. The
investigation is still ongoing, and it cannot be said at this stage that nothing
has been, or can be unearthed against the petitioners. In my view, quashing
the subject FIR at this nascent stage would thwart the unravelling a huge
multi victim scam which has affected hundreds of innocent investors and
robbed them of their hard earned savings. It would also send a very wrong
signal - not only to the petitioners, but to the society at large. 32. For all the aforesaid reasons, the present petition is dismissed. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made in this order on the merits
of the case, are prima facie in nature, and made only for the purpose of the
present discussion and the same shall not come in the way of either party at
any stage of the proceedings. VIPIN SANGHI, J

JANUARY 18, 2017 W.P.(CRL) 3267/2016 Page 20 of 20