Member of Parliament John Brittas, Communist Party of India (Marxist), wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 31 urging the government to take cognisance of the cybercrimes and rising instances of financial frauds associated with the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AsPS), according to a report by Hindustan Times . The letter also urged the Prime Minister to direct the Finance Ministry and the IT Ministry to look into the matter.

The MP’s letter comes at a time when multiple states, including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Haryana, have witnessed a growth in AePS-related frauds. These crimes mainly include cloning people’s Aadhaar-linked biometrics and using them to siphon off people’s money from bank accounts (we have reported such cases before). Recently, the Telangana police issued an alert on the AePS fraud cautioning residents to disable their biometrics from Aadhaar if they lose money from their AePS-linked account.

Key points from the letter:

Why it matters:

According to the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), in March 2023, 219.3 million banking transactions were conducted through AePS and the network of micro ATMs. It is important to note that AePS is a significant component of the social welfare system through which many Indians avail direct fund transfers for different schemes. This means that any exploitation of the AePS mechanism will end up exposing millions of citizens to a risk of financial fraud and these are mainly people who belong to socio-economically weaker sections of the society. The increasing cases of AePS fraud in the last year or so had already established that there’s an incoming crisis, which is still not being addressed with enough seriousness.

A note to revisit: A letter written by Rajeev Chandrasekhar , as a Rajya Sabha MP in 2016, to the then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, highlights the dangers of using Aadhaar in the banking and financial system as a means to authenticate an account holder’s identity. Chandrasekhar had pointed out that the Aadhaar database is a “poorly verified database in terms of identifying whose biometrics are in the database”. The letter, reviewed by MediaNama, had cautioned against the use of Aadhaar for KYC purposes and had stated that Aadhaar must be restricted to biometric verification only in the banking sector. In 2023, however, the IT Minister denied the misuse of Aadhaar data , when questions were raised in the Parliament about identity theft using Aadhaar.

Warning by the MHA: In February 2023, according to a report by The Print , the Indian Cybercrime Coordination, a nodal agency of the Ministry of Home Affairs for prevention of cybercrimes, had written to the state governments raising concerns about the misuse of AePS devices by fraudsters. The MHA stated that Aadhaar biometric data uploaded on state websites that host sale deeds and other agreements are being cloned by individuals to carry out unauthorized withdrawals from bank accounts. The letter also called for investigation of such crimes and stated that “Cyber criminals are misusing Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AePS) to conduct financial frauds, as the system allows any user to deposit cash, withdraw cash, transfer funds and check statement using Aadhaar number and biometrics.”

UIDAI’s response: The UIDAI had introduced an AI-based security mechanism in February, claiming that it will employ two-layer of two-factor authentication of fingerprints for Aadhaar-based transactions. The technique uses both finger minutia and finger image to check the liveness of the fingerprint. In response to MediaNama’s RTI query on frauds related to the Aadhaar-Enabled Payment System (AePS), the UIDAI had stated in March that the AI-based fingerprint authentication mechanism is a measure to prevent cloning of Aadhaar-linked fingerprints. The questions related to the nature of the frauds and complaints regarding the AePS were left unanswered by the UIDAI.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event