SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Biggest fraud cardiologist of India .This fraud is fooling hundreds of people everyday and is responsible for death of many seriously ill heart patients .
DATE: 2024-05-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1czfxp4/biggest_fraud_cardiologist_of_india_this_fraud_is/

--- POST TEXT ---

Meet biggest fraud cardiologist of India Dr Bimal chhajer MBBS MD(physiotherapy ) former professor and consultant AIIMS New Delhi (fake claims) . This quack is a MD physiotherapy basically a physiotherapist he hides his qualifications and potray himself as a cardiologist and former professor in AIIMS New Delhi. he runs a YouTube channel named saaol heart centre with about 1 million subscribers recently he has surfaced in promotional videos with popular YouTubers like Raj shamani (about 4 million views) .this quack is not even qualified to prescribe basic medicines for which it requires at least a MD medicine nowadays . 

he runs this quack heart centre (Saaol heart centre) it has at least 100 clinics in almost every city. he claims to cure serious heart diseases like coronary artery disease and heart failure with EECP which is basically a massage mechine it was invented in China in 1980s Current price of eecp mechine is just 5000 $ on Alibaba while this fraud charges 140000 . There's not even 1% surity that this EECP therepy can open clogged arteries can create new blood flow pathways it's basically for patients who are very aged or overweight and can't excercise . 
Exercising and running daily few kilometres will have same effects as this mechine. this quack is endangering lives of seriously ill heart patients . he operates like a cartel with diagnostic centres Many times to prove their quackery they even alter lab reports like arteries opened from 90% to 70% .Many seriously ill patients have lost their lives due to his quackery . my family was fooled by this quack . my brother was completely healthy and fit one senior cardiologist already ruled out any heart disease this quack unnecessarily prescribed CT angiography and exposed him to such high unnecessary radiation ( about 16 Msv = 8 years of background radiation in a few seconds) and contrast dye which is clearly nephrotoxic. it resulted in acute kidney injury . 

Nowadays this quack and associated diagnostic centres are prescribing CT angiographies like candies to young healthy people as a preventive measure . This quack has been fined by Rajsthan consumer court but it took 5 years to the patient family to get justice from . I have written a compliment to Central grievance redressal portal they directed to complaint Delhi government and medical council. then I wrote to Delhi CMO they replied they can't do anything due to model code of conduct I have wrote to almost every secretary in Delhi health ministry and Delhi medical council no one has replied. Delhi medical council website already has 4000 cases of medical negligence in 2024 . their complaint website is not working. there are about 5 million cases of medical negligence in India every year. not even five people get justice. judiciary and regulatory bodies are the biggest joke in this country. This country is being ruled by corporates and corrupt politicians nexus . administrative bodies just work for their cut . they don't care about anything