Not initiating proper action of any body posting anything destroying the career of people who do not know about adverse publicity posted due to hatred, envy, jealously, revenge, or cannot force us to work accordingly to their whim and fancies. You don't have llm people to check and delete unwanted malicious writing. If you want not to destroy people career and make them paupers due to your website not reporting to concerned person immediately to make them know of someone posting malicious articles or complaints https://www.consumercomplaints.in/ace-management-services-job-offer-abroad-c1216... ⇄ Has anyone gone legal and proved me fraud. I do my best to help everyone. I have already replied to all writers but you have not removed negative comments. Ace management services is registered in bhopal from 20/03/1998 with m. P labour dept, bhopal 15763 /bpl/ce/ 98 - it is continuosly renewed and registration valid till december 31st, 2022 licence no c/694602, m. P labour dept renewed 21/12/2017 Ace management services is also registered in mangalore from24/11/2012 licence no 2012 - com 32360 under mangalore muncipal corporation it has been reneed till march 31st, 2021 - with licence no 2015 - com 36366 renewed on 26/febrauary, 2020 Ravi kumar has mentioned Can someone please confirm me if ace management services which is located in mangalore and bhopal is genuine or not. They are offering me job abroad and i have to pay huge some in advance. Please reply. Thanks in advance. Reply to it : ravikumar ramteke	 		 current address: Flat no 03, first floor Shree ganeshay heights Midc road Ravet Pune, maharashtra Phone no: [protected] E-mail : ravikumar. [protected]@gmail.com Ravikumar. [protected]@yahoo.com Hometown: nagpur 09+ years experience in fire & safety I have provided you with details of ace management services registration details both at bhopal and mangalore as such ace management services existed both locations thou bhopal temprarily i have kept on low profile dueto unwanted bad publicity given by your website. We have not not taken any money from him - and we do not charge any candidate service charges charges they accept an offer letter - also they have time to check the authenticity of the employer. So he cannot say that we are fraud. Or where we are existing. What is the meaning of fake recruiter.in history from starting we have not charged any candidate before getting employment. We were charging 50 or 100 inr for local recruitment registration in bhopal in 1997/98 that also i had discontinued as candidates come and sit in my office and were wasting my time. So we used to collected half month salary in 2 installment after they were getting job & in salaries. But international job they get a bigger salary provided they do not fail in medical test etc. We charge some amount depending on salary offer after acceptance offer letter and also for genuine needy people who request us to pay us in their salary time in installment. Parmod sehgal apr 9, 2016 :i do not know this fellow as _ my bhopal office some were working from may 2014 to april 14, 2015 - i sacked all the sfatt when i found the staff were cheating me and outsider was working in my chair in bhopal office. I restarted bhopal office again 2015 july /aug but staff not hard working and they made me losses in bhopal for more then 7 lakhs so i kept 1 or 2 staff membets in bhopal. Arshalan khan nov 26, 2016 Never eever go for ace mgmt they r purely fake they charges hansome amount to get you job never go to them Regarding - arshalan khan - i do not know this fellow as we have not worked for anyone of the above - just anger for not working for them. Veeramani krishnan dec 5, 2016 I am also got email about job offer and need to pay one month salary... Is it good consultant or fake... Please tell ravikumar... Are you accept the offer letter Ravi kumar : is the first no above - so we have not given him anything. We would have given him or arranged the offer letter provided he gets finalised - fo that we collect a service charge agreement before only that he will pay the service charges in instalment once he accepts the offer letter. The terms generally vary depending on the candidate's capacity and financial position. Veeramani krishnan - if i am correct he has been inducted by us in doha health care, qatar when mr. Thomas was the director. Last year he has expired. He wanted us to get his younger brother recruited by us in qatar which we did not do. We cannot please everyone as their profiles thou we send they should be shortlisted by clients. Prahlad bahubhai patel: this man was given offer letter an also constanly following by my staff his work visa had come but he was in saudi arabia working there. Now recently he had sent me a message showing he was in hospital. We pay staff salaries so we cannot refund the initial amount as we have completed our working.in fact he made us losses as we budget the money for the staff who are working and getting them employed. Reference is here: - initial work permit was issued on march 26th, 2014 vide reference: gis/wp/bp/4095/vol.1 by ghana immrigation service (Hq), accra. Vide sl no 2 - prahlad bahubhai patel, nationality - indian, network & computer system administrator had been issued & forwarded to us by the employer who had hired mr. Prahlad bahubhai patel. We had forwarded the work permit to him immediately by mail but that point of time he was not in india. Mr. Prahlad bahubhai patel could have taken his original passport & identity proof & got the work permit stamped at the ghana consulate directly. If he goes to saudi and works there and comes according to his convenience Will the employer agree for him to join. He will not wait. He wanted me to take him as partner for my business which i disagreed before he posted this article so i that i do not business and my reputation get spoilt. I again spoke to the employer recently - he offerred him job back but mr. Prahlad bahubhai patel wanted me to search him a job in uae which i cannot do as he is not that qualified as graduate engineers are being asked for his designation as we had forwarded his profile to saudi arabia also to help him. They rejected besides i have sent his profile to various organisation as we have lots of email database of most of the world business organisation. I have mentioned this in your website. Mr. Prahlad bahubhai patel wanted business partnership with me so that cannot happen. No blackmailing. Shaik h jun 18, 2019 Francis is faku person. Don't ever trust him. Till he grabs money he will pretending once u transfer money no response. Don't waste ur time and hard earned money for such people. Reply: this dentist dr. Haseena shaik resident of tirupati is telling lies. She has failed in viva conducted by moh, oman dated march 10th, 2019. Noronha francis sep 3, 2019 Dr. S. Haseena taj has again been given the hall ticket for viva for second attempt for dated june 9th, 2019 the viva hall ticket was applied on 21/05/2019 amount paid is 100 omr receipt no is 001671. The employer has sent it to her. Copy of the viva is been sent to me by employer in oman. By failing twice in viva conducted by moh, oman can you expect moh, oman to giv you denbtal lincence to practice in oman by telling lies and writing unwanted stories to fool the world & not disclosing that you have failed twice in viva conducted by moh, oman first on march 10th, 2019 and again on june 9th, 2019. - check the attachment in the reply in the site. Due to a fraud in my industrial plot in madideep of area 150"*300" = 45000 sq ft way back in 185/1986 and the man whoo gave noc to another party also children of a staff member of his parent organisation to avail loan on construction done on my plot but loan given with tittle deeds of another plot obstructing my path in my career in 1984/85 onward. The same party must have got my telephone lines tapped as mr. Nandan dube dgp of m. P was tapping my telephones when he was dgp of m. P for mr. Babulal gaur an mr. M. A. Kan promotee ias his reference on file of ias m. P is 442 dob[protected] selection to ias in 1983, retired in[protected]. I had also stalled the appointment or cancelled of mr. Nandan dube as investigating officer for police encounter in bhopal of muslim jailed for showing escaping from jail as he i knew he was involved in telephone tapping in bhopal so that i do not business and earn anything this way these government criminals destroyed my career for past 35 years. Even now they are not happy but from may 6th, 2020 with planetary changes which will start favouring me. Also details of shri r. K. Tandon jt dir cbi who was appointed investigation officer was purchased by mr. Babulal gaur who was home minister to make sure no investigation takes place on the contrary to make sure my business is destroyed. He took up the position of addition dg cid, m. P. The inquiry is alreay supresse so far. Becuase if my inquiry takes place there will be lots government officials in jail for some other land scam also in bhopal including politicians who are big people. If you want any documents please provide us with your email id. I have to staff salary not easy to maintain helping anyone. Besides i had to cut down staff due to mr. Babulal gaur who as cm. M. P was involved in our 2 telephone tapping so we lodged complaint to m. P governor and coo bharti talenet ltd bhopal. Coo did not help us as he had to prottect his organisation. But i forward the complaint copy to indiatv - who helped me finding the truth and news article appeared in hindustan times in 2005. Within 3 days he had to resign after which mr. Shivraj singh is there as c. M. Mr. Babulal gaur was ospitalised after he came to know that i have sent a letter reminder for action on august 8th, 2019 and this time he was not the home minister of mla so he knew he could be questioned or arrested by m. P. Police so he fell sick and got admitted to hospital. But i posted on your site on aug 19. So he got more scared and died of heart attack on august 21st, 2019. Refer a writing on your sit on august 19, 2019 — even a chief minister of m. P. Mr. Babulal gaur had to resign due to our telephone tappinig in 2005 which was reported by indiatv - based on investigations done then of my mail letter to the then honourable governor of m. P then which was forwarded to india tv. Even dig bhopal mobile was tapped by mr. Babulal gaur as he was working with all criminals of bhopal and corrupt bureaucrats of bhopal. So you should know how much struggles i have to do to fight corruption in bhopal. Mangalore is my native place and i have my fathers small place to built house if reqd near mangalore junction rly station and also my mothers ancestral propert also just behind tejaswini nusing college kudupu. Ther i can build a house also if required. So why should i do wrong thing. Besides my bank account will show my wifes money to me every month for my survival as well sometimes for business help. http://pgportal.gov.in/pension/ViewStatusForm.aspx?useraction=settings$JS=Sz624Q... ⇄ Registration number	:	darpg/p/2013/01759 Name of complainant	:	shri francis domnic noronha Date of receipt	:	28 mar 2013 Received by	:	department of administrative reforms and public grievances 1. Forwarded to	:	c. B. I. On 28/03/2013 Officer name	:	shri r. K. Tandon Officer designation	:	joint director Contact address	:	cbi hqrs. Block 3, cgo complex New delhi110003 Contact number	:	24361599 E-mail	:	[protected]@cbi.gov.in Date of action	:	28 mar 2013 [protected]@cbi.gov.in Please remove all the negative writing ace management services which you people have created me losses to more then 1 crore of the earning if you had taken proper action on any body writing without checking on hearsay evidences. Even i am going on for our own website soon and doing other legal formalities to do all sort of recruits as mea manpower director had already contacted me to register my firm with them in 2018 but finance was the problem then as my main aim was to set up my industry in mandideep and i have to get back my industrial plot. A copy of this write up i have retained for my records Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)