The Reserve Bank of India has defined a vision for digital payments from 2019 to 2021 , to “empower every Indian with access to a bouquet of e-payment options that is safe, secure, convenient, quick and affordable.” To this end, it says it intends to follow an approach that enhances customer experience, empowers payment systems operators and infrastructure, puts in forward looking regulation, and establishes a risk-focused supervision system.

The RBI has identified the following 12 specific outcomes:

1. Reduce paper-based clearing as a percentage of retail payments: it is expected that the volume of cheque-based payments would be less than 2% of retail electronic transactions by 2021. 2. Accelerated growth in individual retail electronic payment systems: UPI is expected to grow, on an average annualised basis, over 100%, and NEFT at 40%, till December 2021. The number of digital transactions is expected to be 8,707 crore in December 2021. 3. Digital payment transaction turnover vis-à-vis GDP (at market prices-current price) is expected to increase to 10.37 in 2019, 12.29 in 2020 and 14.80 in 2021. 4. Debit card transactions at Point of Sale to increase to 35%, and “continued growth in PPI transactions”. 5. Debit card usage at PoS to be at least 44% of total debit card transactions (at PoS + ATM). In value terms it is 15.2 per cent in 2018-19 (5.2 per cent in 2014-15) which is expected to be 22% by end 2021. 6. Card payments/acceptance: 6.1: Increased deployment of card acceptance infrastructure across the country including at smaller centres with a substantial portion of the infrastructure taking care of processing contactless card payments. It is expected to have 5 million active PoS by end 2021. The total card acceptance infrastructure will be upscaled to six times present levels by end 2021. 6.2: digital PoS (QR code) is also expected to increase substantially 6.3: Shift Cash on Delivery (CoD) transactions to digital modes for e-commerce. 7. Reduction in cash in circulation as a percentage of GDP is a goal, but no specific target is being considered by the RBI 8. 50% increase in mobile based payment transactions is expected 9. Reduction in pricing of electronic payment systems by at least 100 basis points, and a shift from transaction-value-percentage rate to per transaction rate, irrespective of the value of a transaction. 10. Enhanced security and customer centricity, in terms of: 10.1: Decrease in Technical Declines reported across various payment systems by 10% year-on-year. 10.2: Reduction in Business Declines reported across various payment systems by 5% year-on-year. 10.3: Improvement in Turn Around Time (TAT) for resolution of customer complaints by Payments System Operators. 11. Fraud to Sales (Fraud value / Sales value) x 10000] count for payment systems is expected to be less than 10 bps for most of the payment systems. 12. Enhanced healthy competition in the payments space and establishment of new Payments System Operators

For achieving these outcomes, it has identified the following 36 initiatives to be executed over the next 36 months:

1. Affordable, accessible and inclusive services, for action from RBI, NPCI, Payments System Operators:

“Payment System Operators (PSOs) need to consider cost of accessing and managing transactions and accordingly price their services. The aim is towards progressive reduction in ‘per-transaction’ cost to customers keeping in view the marginal cost advantage with increase in the number of transactions. The need to move towards marginal cost of pricing based on volume of transactions handled needs no over-emphasis.

2. Turn-around time for resolution of customer complaints, for action from RBI, NPCI, Payments System Operators:

3. Centralised 24×7 Helpline, for action from RBI, NPCI, Payments System Operators:

4. Awareness creation, for action from RBI, NPCI, Payments System Operators:

5. Customer awareness surveys, for action taken by RBI:

6. Internal ombudsman for Payment System Operators, for action from RBI, NPCI, Payments System Operators:

7. Review of corridors and charges for inbound cross-border remittances, for action by RBI:

8. Self-regulatory organisation, for action from RBI, NPCI, Payments System Operators:

9. Creating an environment for innovation through collaboration, for action by RBI:

10. Feature phone based payment services, for action by Payment Systems Operators:

11. Offline payment solutions, for action by Payment Systems Operators::

12. USSD based payment services, for action by NPCI:

13. National settlement services, for action by RBI and Card Operators:

14. Availability of Retail Services: Reserve Bank would examine

15. Global outreach of payment systems, for action by RBI and NPCI:

16. Widen scope, use and reach of domestic cards, for action by NPCI:

17. Interoperability of payment systems, for action by RBI and Payments System Operators:

18. Acceptance infrastructure: The infrastructure will be upscaled to at least six times of the present levels in the next three years. 18.1 Acquirers: Explore the option of permitting acquiring PoS infrastructure by all regulated entities. Increase in acquirers, like Regional Rural Banks and Non-Banking Financial Companies, to cover a large section of establishments. 18.2 Innovation-based new devices: Innovation towards low-cost acceptance devices will be encouraged 18.3 Acceptance Development Fund (ADF): Creation of an ADF to subsidise acquirers for deploying PoS acceptance infrastructure in tier-3 to tier-6 centres. 18.4 Bharat QR (BQR): Enhanced usage of signed and encrypted BQR as proactive preventive measure for secure payments

19. Cheque truncation system, for action by RBI and NPCI:

20. Trade Receivables Discounting System (TREDS), for action by RBI:

21. Geo tagging of payment system touch points, for action by RBI, NPCI, Payments system operators:

22. Regulatory Sandbox, for action by RBI:

23. System capacity and scalability, for action by RBI, NPCI, Payments system operators:

24. Contactless Payments and tokenisation, for action by RBI:

25. Review of membership of centralised payment systems, for action by RBI:

26. Increasing usage of Legal Entity Identifier system for large value cross border payments, for action by RBI and LEIL:

27. Encourage adoption of new technoligies, including blockchain, for action by RBI, NPCI, CCIL and Payment System Operators:

28. E-Mandates / Standing Instructions, for action by RBI:

29. Security of Mobile Payments, for action by RBI:

30. Regulation of Payment Gateway service providers and payment aggregators, for action by RBI:

31. Inter regulatory and intra regulatory co-ordination:

32. Oversight for maintaining integrity of payment systems, for action by RBI and Payment System Operators:

33. Third party risk management, and system-wide security, for action by RBI, NPCI and Payment System Operators:

34. Framework for collecting data on frauds in payment systems, for action by RBI, NPCI and Payment System Operators:

35. Drafting a framework for testing resilience of payment systems, for action by RBI:

36. Benchmarking India’s Payment Systems:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event