SIDDHARTH MRIDUL, J. 1. The present writ petition instituted under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India, seeks to assail the order dated 29.02.2016
(hereinafter referred to as the 'impugned order'), rendered by the
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Union of India (hereinafter referred to as
'Respondent No.1'); whereby, they, whilst exercising power under the
provisions of Section 212(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
referred to as 'the 2013 Act') have ordered an investigation into the
affairs of the Petitioner Company, in the public interest, to be carried out
by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (hereinafter referred to as
'SFIO'). 2. The following reliefs have been sought by Sunair Hotels Limited
(hereinafter referred to as 'Petitioner Company') by way of the present
writ petition: 3. For the sake of felicity, the impugned order dated 29.02.2016 is
reproduced hereinbelow: Whereas the Central Government is empowered under Section 212 of the Companies Act, 2013 to order investigation
 into the affairs of any company in Public Interest and to appoint
 one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate the
 affairs of the company. 2. AND whereas there are very Serious Complaints against
 the affairs of the company i.e. M/s Sunair Hotels Limited. 3. Now, therefore, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 212(1)(c) of the Act, the Central Government hereby
 orders investigation into the affairs of M/s Sunair Hotels
 Limited, to be carried out by the Serious Fraud Investigation
 office. 4. The Inspectors appointed by Director, SFIO to
 investigate into the affairs of the above mentioned company,
 shall exercise all the powers available to them under the Companies Act, 2013 . The inspectors shall complete their
 investigation and submit the report to the Central Government
 within a period of Six (6) months from the date of issue of this
 order. 4. Further, if any information is required during the course
 of Investigation, you are requested to depute some officer to co-
 ordinate with the Ministry for obtaining the desired
 documents/information. 5. This order is issued for and on behalf of the Central
 Government. Sd./- (Swadhin Barua)
 Joint Director" i. Section 227 of the 1956 Act read with provisions
 under The Manufacturing and other Companies
 (Auditor's Report) Order, 1988; registered at Police Station, Connaught Place, Delhi, at the
 instance of VLS, against the promoters of the Petitioner WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 5 of 44 Company. A chargesheet for the offences punishable under
 the provisions of sections 406 , 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A , 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter
 referred to as ' IPC '), has been filed before the concerned
 Court. An FIR bearing No.99/2002, dated 19.02.2002, was also
 registered at Police Station, Connaught Place, Delhi, at the
 instance of VLS, against the promoters of the Petitioner
 Company. A chargesheet for the offences punishable under
 the provisions of sections 406 , 409 , 420 , 424 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A , 120-B of the IPC, has been filed before the
 concerned Court. e) Further, at the instance of VLS, an FIR bearing
 No.148/2002, dated 28.02.2002, was registered at Police
 Station, Defence Colony, Delhi, against the promoters of
 the Petitioner Company. A chargesheet for the offences
 punishable under the provisions of sections 384 , 406 , 409 , 417 , 422 , 465 , 468 , 471 , 500 , 120-B of the IPC, has been
 filed before the concerned Court. f) A writ petition being W.P.(Crl.) 1300/2004 also came to be
 instituted by VLS, praying for directions of this Court for
 registration of an FIR, qua the factum of stealing of 21
 original files, prepared by Respondent No.1, in relation to
 the Petitioner Company. By way of its order dated 24.08.2005, this Court
 directed the registration of an FIR in this behalf. Consequently, FIR No.315/2005 for the offences
 punishable under the provisions of sections 380 , 411 , 120-B of the IPC was registered at Police Station, Naraina, Delhi.
 Pursuant thereto, a chargesheet came to be filed before the
 concerned Court. g) VLS instituted a company petition being
 C.P.No.45(ND)/1998 seeking investigation into the affairs
 of the Petitioner Company. The Company Law Board,
 Delhi (hereinafter referred to as 'CLB') vide order dated
 13.06.2001, dismissed C.P.No.45(ND)/1998 filed by VLS. An appeal, being Co.A.(SB) No.11/2001, was
 preferred by VLS before this Court against the said order of
 dismissal dated 13.06.2001. The Company Appeal came to
 be disposed of vide order dated 16.12.2005 and the matter
 was remanded back to CLB. Subsequent to the matter being remanded back to the
 CLB, the said C.P. No.45(ND)/1998 was again dismissed
 vide dated 04.09.2013. An appeal, being Co.A.(SB) 41/2013, has been
 instituted by VLS challenging the order of the CLB dated
 04.09.2013 and the same is pending adjudication before this
 Court. h) However, on 25.08.2003, an application being C.A.
 No.172/2003, came to be filed by VLS before the CLB in
 the said C.P. No.45(ND)/1998, under the provisions of section 340 , Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, seeking a
 preliminary inquiry into the purported violation of the
 provisions under Sections 193 , 196 , 199 , 200 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 read with 120-B of the IPC alleged to have been
 committed inter alia by the Petitioner Company. No.45(ND)/1998, also seeking investigation into the affairs
 of the Petitioner Company under the provisions of section
 237(b) of the 1956 Act. The said intervention application
 was converted into C.P. No.1(ND)/2004 under section
 237(b) of the 1956 Act. The said C.P. No.1(ND)/2004 and Company
 Application No.172/2003 came to be dismissed by the CLB
 by way of its order dated 16.05.2007. The said order dated 16.05.2007 was challenged by
 VLS by way of an appeal being Co.A. (SB) 16/2007. This Court dismissed Co.A. (SB) 16/2007 by way of
 the order dated 23.04.2012. The said order dated 23.04.2012 came to challenged
 by way of SLP No.27437/2012 filed on behalf of VLS. SLP
 No.27437/2012, was however dismissed in limine, by way WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 8 of 44 of order dated 21.01.2013, whilst granting liberty to the Ld.
 CLB to take up the issue with regard to prayer for
 investigation, under the provisions of section 237(b) of the
 1956 Act. j) On 31.08.2005, a writ petition, being W.P. (C) No.
 14300/2005, came to be filed by VLS against the Petitioner
 Company and Respondent No.1, seeking a direction therein
 to the effect that Respondent No.1 be directed to initiate
 appropriate proceedings under section 401 of the 1956 Act
 against the Petitioner Company. The said W.P. (C) No. 14300/2005 also came to be
 dismissed by this Court by way of its order dated
 16.11.2007. Thereafter, a Letters Patent Appeal No.
 149/2008 came to be instituted by VLS in order to assail the
 said order of this Court dated 16.11.2007. The said LPA
 also came to be dismissed by way of the order dated
 29.09.2008. A Special Leave Petition being SLP No.3317/2009
 came to be instituted by VLS, in order to challenge the said
 order dated 29.09.2008 passed by the Division Bench of
 this Court. In the said proceedings in SLP No.3317/2009, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court, on 22.01.2016 directed
 Respondent No.1 to file an affidavit clarifying whether it
 would be initiating any proceedings or undertaking any WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 9 of 44 action against the Petitioner Company, in accordance with
 law. An affidavit dated 12.02.2016 came to be filed by
 Respondent No.1 stating that they would be taking action
 against the Petitioner Company, under the provisions of section 212(1)(c) of the 2013 Act. Thereafter, Respondent
 No.1 rendered the impugned order on 29.02.2016. The investigation carried out by the SFIO has since
 been concluded. The final report of investigation came to
 be submitted by the SFIO on 31.10.2016 (hereinafter
 referred to as 'SFIO Report') and the same has been placed
 before this Court. 5. Mr. Suhail Dutt, learned senior advocate, appearing on behalf of
the Petitioner Company would contend firstly that the impugned order
dated 29.02.2016 is illegal, unjust & arbitrary, inasmuch as, it has been
rendered contrary to settled principles of law, as enunciated in the
decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Barium Chemicals & anr. v.
Company Law Board, reported as (1966) Supp SCR 311; Rohtas
Industries v. S.D. Aggarwal , reported as (1969) 1 SCC 325; and
Parmeshwar Das Agarwal v. The Additional Director (Investigation)
Serious Fraud Investigation Office, Ministry of Corporate Affairs and
Ors. reported as 2016 SCCOnline Bom 9276. 6. Mr. Suhail Dutt, Ld. Senior Advocate, would then urge that the
impugned order has been based on extraneous considerations, and that
there is no or inadequate material warranting the formation of an opinion WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 10 of 44 to order an investigation into the affairs of the Petitioner Company, in
the public interest, under the provisions of section 212 (1) (c) of the
2013 Act. 7. In order to buttress this submission, reliance would be placed on
the decisions in S. L. Verma v. Delhi Flour Mills Co. Ltd. , reported as
(1975) DLT 226; and Ram Das Motors Transport Ltd. v. Tadi
Adhinarayana Reddy , reported as (1997) 5 SCC 446; and Parmeshwar
Das Agarwal (supra). 8. It would then be urged that the impugned order is unsustainable in
law, since it does not reflect the basis for the formation of the opinion of
Respondent No.1, to order an investigation into the affairs of the
Petitioner Company; and further, that reasons/basis for the formation of
opinion must be contemporaneous and cannot be
introduced/supplemented at a later stage, by way of an affidavit or
otherwise, as is being sought to be done in the present petition. 9. In support of this submission, reliance would be placed on the
dicta of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mohinder Singh Gill & Anr. v.
The Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi , reported as AIR 1978 SC
851 and Ravi Yashwant Bhoir v. District Collector, Raigad & Ors. ,
reported as (2012) 4 SCC 407. 10. Challenge to the impugned order would also be sought to be made
on behalf of the Petitioner Company, on the ground that the impugned
order is based on preconceived notions of Respondent No.1, and
therefore tantamount to a colourable exercise of discretionary power WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 11 of 44 conferred by virtue of the provisions under Section 212(1)(c) of the
2013 Act. 11. In order to fortify this submission, learned senior advocate would
rely upon the decision rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Collector (District Magistrate) Allahabad and Anr. v. Raj Ram Jaiswal ,
reported as (1985) 3 SCC 1. 12. It would then be urged that the impugned order has been rendered
contrary to the principles of protection against double-jeopardy, since
various legal proceedings instituted assailing the conduct of affairs of
the Petitioner Company have either, already been adjudicated &
dismissed before various legal fora; or are sub-judice. 13. It would then be urged that the SFIO Report, cannot be looked at
by this Court in order to determine whether the impugned order is
sustainable in law or not. 14. In order to buttress this submission, learned Senior Counsel would
seek to place reliance upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ashok Kumar Aggarwal (supra). In order to further fortify this
contention, learned Senior Counsel would also seek to place reliance on
the principles of the doctrine of excluding the 'fruit of poisonous tree'
and the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Smt. Selvi v. State of
Karnataka , reported as (2010) 7 SCC 263. 15. Per contra, Mr. Bhardwaj, learned Central Government Standing
Counsel, appearing on behalf of Respondent No.1 would firstly urge that
the Petitioner Company has not approached the Court with clean hands WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 12 of 44 and that the present writ petition has been instituted in order to scuttle
the process of investigation directed by way of the impugned order. 16. In order to controvert the submissions of the Petitioner Company
that there was no fresh material available with the Respondent No.1 for
the formation of the opinion as found in the impugned order; it would be
urged that investigation has been directed into the affairs of the
Petitioner Company on the basis of fresh complaints received from
various stakeholders post the year 2013, and keeping in view the grave
allegations made therein qua offences punishable under the 1956 Act,
2013 Act and the IPC . 17. It would be strongly urged on behalf of the Petitioner Company
that the impugned order is the manifestation of judicious exercise of
power conferred by the provisions under Section 212(1) of the 2013 Act,
in public interest, which is prima facie being prejudiced by the acts of
commission by the Petitioner Company. 18. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned senior advocate, appearing on behalf
of VLS, would at the outset urge that in view of the circumstance that
investigation has already been concluded by the SFIO and a report dated
31.10.2016 in this behalf has already been rendered, the present writ
petition has been rendered infructuous. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned senior advocate, would then invite
the attention of this Court to the orders passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in SLP (C) No. 3317/2009, to further challenge the maintainability
of the present writ petition. 19. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned senior counsel, would next urge that
there was sufficient material before Respondent No.1 for them to form
an opinion that an investigation by the SFIO was required to be
conducted into the affairs of the Petitioner Company, in the public
interest. 20. It would then be submitted that the expression "is of the opinion" 21. In this behalf, it would also be argued that the test laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rohtas Industries (supra) and Barium
Chemicals (supra) was rendered with respect to section 237 of the 1956
Act and the same has no application in the present case, inasmuch as, the
provisions of the two sections viz. Section 237 of the 1956 Act and Section 212 of the 2013 Act, are not pari materia. Mr. Dayan Krishnan
would also urge that the ratio of the decision in Parmeshwar Das
Agarwal (supra) is not attracted to the factual matrix of the present case. 22. It would be also argued that, the report of the SFIO has unearthed
numerous violations committed by the Petitioner Company, punishable
under the 1956 Act, 2013 Act and the IPC ; which fortify the opinion of
Respondent No.1, rendered by way of the impugned order. 23. Seeking to counter the submission made on behalf of the
Petitioner Company, it would be urged on behalf of VLS, that this Court
ought to consider the report of the SFIO placed before it, in terms of the WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 14 of 44 directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order dated 22.07.2016, in
order to effectively adjudicate the instant petition on its merits. 24. I have heard the rival contentions of the learned counsel appearing
on behalf of the parties, examined the documents, and perused the
official record placed before me in a sealed cover. 25. The main issue that arises for consideration in the present petition,
falls within a narrow compass. The main issue that arises for
consideration is, whether the formation of the opinion by Respondent
No.1/Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Union of India, to order an
investigation by the SFIO into the affairs of the Petitioner Company, in
the public interest, is bad in law on account of the
insufficiency/inadequacy of the material that forms the basis of the said
opinion. 26. It would first be pertinent to address the issue of maintainability
raised on behalf of VLS, qua the instant petition. It would also be
necessary and expedient to address the contention made on behalf of the
Petitioner Company, that this Court ought not to consider the final report
of the investigation (SFIO Report), in determining the present petition. 27. In this behalf, it would be relevant to refer to the directions of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, rendered in the Interim Application No.5 of 2016
in Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.3317 of 2009, on 05.12.2016. The said
order dated 05.12.2016 is reproduced as hereunder: 28. The order dated 22.07.2016 rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in SLP(C) NO.3317 OF 2009, is reproduced hereinbelow for the
sake of convenience. List the matter again in the first week of December,
 2016." (Emphasis supplied.) WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 16 of 44 29. On a conjoint reading of the directions of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the above-extracted orders dated 22.07.2016 and 05.12.2016,
the following is abundantly clear: 30. In other words, in the event the SFIO report is against the
Petitioner Company, the present writ petition has to be determined on its
merits; and after due consideration thereof, as this Court deems
appropriate. 31. In the alternative, the present writ petition would automatically be
rendered infructuous in the event the SFIO report is in favour of the
Petitioner Company. 32. Therefore, in my considered view, in keeping with the directions
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, as contained in the orders dated
22.07.2016 and 05.12.2016; it would be necessary to consider the final
report of investigation dated 31.10.2016, submitted by the SFIO, whilst
adjudicating the present petition on its merits. 33. I would now proceed to deal with the main issue that arises for
consideration in the present writ petition. 34. For effective adjudication of the present petition, it would be
relevant to consider the principles of law enunciated with regard to the
provision of sub-section (1) of section 212 , under Chapter XIV of the
2013 Act. The said provision is reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of
convenience: 35. Akin to the family of provisions under Chapter XIV of the 2013
Act, are the allied provisions under section 234 to section 251 of the
1956 Act. 36. A seemingly similar provision, to the provision under section 212 of the 2013 Act, is under section 237 of the 1956 Act. The provisions of section 237 of the 1956 Act are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of
convenience. 37. In Parmeshwar Das (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court, whilst
deciding the issue with regard to the correctness of the order rendered by
the Central Government under the provisions of section 212(1)(c) of the
2013 Act, observed as hereinbelow: (Emphasis supplied.) 38. A plain reading of the above-extracted paragraph of the report
makes it evident that the object and purpose of the enactment of sections
212 of the 2013 Act and 237 of the 1956 Act, was the same. 39. Broadly, akin to the object of enactment of section 237 of the
1956 Act, the aim and purpose of enactment of section 212 and other
allied sections under Chapter XIV of the 2013 Act, is to prevent a
company from acting in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the
shareholders, and further, to enable the Central Government to assume
power to step in where there is reason to suspect that a company may be
conducting its affairs in a manner prejudicial to the public interest at
large. 40. In view of the foregoing, the argument advanced on behalf of
VLS that since investigation has been ordered under section 212 of the
2013 Act, the decisions pertaining to section 237 of the 1956 Act, relied
upon by the Petitioner Company, would not apply to the facts of the
instant case, is found erroneous and thus, rejected. 41. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, has, on various occasions, rendered
observations on the vires & scope of the provision under section 237 WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 20 of 44 under the 1956 Act and the ambit of powers of the Central Government
under the said provision. It would be profitable to refer to the rulings of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rohtas Industries (supra) and Barium
Chemicals (supra). 42. Whilst upholding the challenge to the impugned order passed
under the provisions of section 237 of the 1956 Act, and relying on the
principles enunciated in the decision in Barium Chemicals (supra), the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, in Rohtas Industries (supra) observed as
hereinbelow: On the basis of the above facts, we have now to see
 whether the Government was competent to pass the impugned
 order. Sections 235 to 237 of the Act are allied sections and
 they form a scheme. They deal with the investigation of the
 affairs of the company. To find out the true scope of Section
 237(b) , it is necessary to take into consideration the provisions
 contained in Sections 235 as well as 236. They read: From the facts placed before us, it is clear that the
 Government had not bestowed sufficient attention to the
 material before it before passing the impugned order. It seems
 to have been oppressed by the opinion that it had formed about
 Shri S.P. Jain. From the arguments advanced by Mr Attorney,
 it is clear that but for the association of Mr S.P. Jain with the
 appellant company, the investigation in question, in all
 probabilites would not have been ordered. Hence, it is clear
 that in making the impugned order irrelevant considerations
 have played an important part. The power under Sections 235 to 237 has been conferred
 on the Central Government on the faith that it will be exercised
 in a reasonable manner. The department of the Central
 Government which deals with companies is presumed to be an WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 23 of 44 expert body in company law matters. Therefore the standard
 that is prescribed under Section 237(b) is not the standard
 required of an ordinary citizen but that of an expert. The
 learned Attorney did not/dispute the position that if we come to
 the conclusion that no reasonable authority would have passed
 the impugned order on the material before it, then the same is
 liable to be struck down. This position is also clear from the
 decision of this Court in Barium Chemicals v. Company Law
 Board [(1966) Supp SCR 311] . It was urged by Mr Setalvad, learned Counsel for the
 appellant, that clause (b) of Section 237 prescribes two
 requirements, i.e. (1) the requisite opinion of the Central
 Government and (2) the existence of circumstances suggesting
 that the company's business was being conducted as laid down
 in sub-clause (1) or that the persons mentioned in sub-clause
 (2) were guilty of fraud, misfeasance or misconduct towards
 the company or any of its members. According to him though
 the opinion to be formed by the Central Government is
 subjective, the existence of circumstances set out in clause (b)
 is a condition precedent to the formation of such opinion and
 therefore the fact that the impugned order contains recitals of
 the existence of those circumstances, does not preclude the
 court from going behind those recitals and determining whether
 they did in fact exist and further whether the Central
 Government in making that order had taken into consideration
 any extraneous consideration. But according to the learned
 Attorney the power conferred on the Central Government
 under clause (b) of Section 237 is a discretionary power and
 the opinion formed, if in fact an opinion as required by that
 section has been formed, as well as the basis on which that
 opinion has been formed are not open to judicial review. In
 other words according to the learned Attorney no part of Section 237(6) is open to judicial review; the matter is
 exclusively within the discretion of the Central Government
 and the statement that the Central Government had formed the
 required opinion is conclusive of the matter. 6. The decision of this Court in Barium Chemicals case which considered the scope of Section 237(b) illustrates
 that difficulty. In that case Hidayatullah, J., (our present Chief
 Justice) and Shelat, J., came to the conclusion that though the
 power under Section 237(b) is a discretionary power the first
 requirement for its exercise is the honest formation of an WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 24 of 44 opinion that the investigation is necessary and the further
 requirement is that "there are circumstances suggesting" the
 inference set out in the section; an action not based on
 circumstances suggesting an inference of the enumerated kind
 will not be valid; the formation of the opinion is subjective but
 the existence of the circumstances relevant to the inference as
 the sine qua non for action must be demonstratable; if their
 existence is questioned, it has to be proved at least prime facie;
 it is not sufficient to assert that those circumstances exist and
 give no clue to what they are, because the circumstances must
 be such as to lead to conclusions of certain definiteness; the
 conclusions must relate to an intent to defraud, a fradulent or
 unlawful "purpose, fraud or misconduct. In other words they
 held that although the formation of opinion by the Central
 Government is a purely subjective process and such an opinion
 cannot be challenged in a court on the ground of propriety,
 reasonableness or sufficiency, the authority concerned is
 nevertheless required to arrive at such an opinion from
 circumstances suggesting the conclusion set out in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 237(b) and the expression
 "circumstances suggesting" cannot support the construction
 that even the existence of circumstances is a matter of
 subjective opinion. Shelat, J., further observed that it is hard to
 contemplate that the legislature could have left to the
 subjective process both the formation of opinion and also the
 existence of circumstances on which it is to be founded; it is
 also not reasonable to say that the clause permitted the
 authority to say that it has formed the opinion on circumstances
 which in its opinion exist and which in its opinion suggest an
 intent to defraud or a fraudulent or unlawful purpose.
 Courts both in this country as well as in other
 Commonwealth countries had occasion to consider the scope of
 provisions similar to Section 237(6) . Judicial dicta found in
 some of those decisions are difficult of reconciliation.
 On the other hand Sarkar, C.J., and Mudholkar, J., held that
 the power conferred on the Central Government under Section
 237(a) is a discretionary power and no facet of that power is
 open to judicial review. Our Brother Bachawat, J., the other
 learned Judge in that Bench did not express any opinion on this
 aspect of the case. Under these circumstances it has become
 necessary for us to sort out the requirements of Section 237(b) and to see which of the two contradictory conclusions reached WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 25 of 44 in Barium Chemical ' case is in our judgment, according to law.
 But before proceeding to analyse Section 237(b) we should like
 to refer to certain decisions cited at the bar bearing on the
 question under consideration. *******
 *******
 The decision of the House of Lords in Badfields v. Minister
 of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, [(1968) 1 All ER 694] is of
 considerable importance. Therein the material facts are these: In the course of his speech Lord Hodson made the
 following observations: Lord Upjohn observed: 11. Coming back to Section 237(b) , in finding out its true
 scope we have to bear in mind that that section is a part of the
 scheme referred to earlier and therefore the said provision takes
 its colour from Sections 235 and 236 . In finding out the
 legislative intent we cannot ignore the requirement of those
 sections. In interpreting Section 237(b) we cannot ignore the
 adverse effect of the investigation on the company. Finally we
 must also remember that the section in question is an inroad on
 the powers of the company to carry on its trade or business and
 thereby an infraction of the fundamental right guaranteed to its
 shareholders under Article 19(1)(g) and its validity cannot be
 upheld unless it is considered that the power in question is a
 reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public. In
 fact the vires of that provision was upheld by majority of the
 Judge s constituting the Bench in Barium Chemicals case
 principally on the ground that the power conferred on the
 Central Government is not an arbitrary power and the same has
 to be exercised in accordance with the restraints imposed by
 law. For the reasons stated earlier we agree with the conclusion
 reached by Hidayatullah and Shelat, JJ. in Barium
 Chemicals case that the existence of circumstances suggesting
 that the company's business was being conducted as laid down
 in sub-clause(1) or the persons mentioned in sub-clause (2)
 were guilty of fraud or misfeasance or other misconduct
 towards the company or towards any of its members is a
 condition precedent for the Government to form the required
 opinion and if the existence of those conditions is challenged,
 the courts are entitled to examine whether those circumstances
 were existing when the order was made. In other words, the
 existence of the circumstances in question are open to judicial
 review though the opinion formed by the Government is not
 amenable to review by the courts. As held earlier the required
 circumstances did not exist in this case. Bachawat, J. 4. The law recognises certain well recognised principles
 within which the discretionary power under Section 237(b) must be exercised. There must be a real exercise of the
 discretion. The authority must be exercised honestly and not
 for corrupt or ulterior purposes. The authority must form the
 requisite opinion honestly and after applying its mind to the
 relevant materials before it. In exercising the discretion the
 authority must have regard only to circumstances suggesting WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 28 of 44 one or more of the matters specified in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii). It must act reasonably and not capriciously or
 arbitrarily. It will be an absurd exercise of discretion, if, for
 example, the authority forms the requisite opinion on the
 ground that the Director in charge of the company is a member
 of a particular community. Within these narrow limits the
 opinion is not conclusive and can be challenged in a court of
 law. Had Section 237(b) made the opinion conclusive, it might
 be open to challenge as violative of Articles 14 and 19 of the
 Constitution, see Corporation of Calcutta v. Calcutta
 Tramways Co. Ltd [(1964) 5 SCR 25] distinguishing Joseph
 Kuruville Vellukunnel v. Reserve Bank of India [(1962) Supp 3
 SCR 632] . Section 237(b) is not violative of Articles 14 and 19. 5. If it is established that there were no materials upon
 which the authority could form the requisite opinion the court
 may infer that the authority did not apply its mind to the
 relevant facts. The requisite opinion is then lacking and the
 condition precedent to the exercise of the power under Section
 237(b) is not fulfilled. On this ground I interfered with the
 order under Section 237(b) in Barium Chemicals v. Company
 Law Board [(1966) Supp 3 SCR 949] . 6. Let me recall the words of Section 237(b) : "If, in the
 opinion of the Central Government, there are circumstances
 suggesting...." The relevant matter is "the opinion of the
 Central Government ". The condition precedent to the exercise
 of power under Section 237(b) is the opinion of the
 Government and not the existence of the circumstances
 suggesting one or more of the specified matters. To hold that
 the factual existence of such matters is a condition precedent to
 the exercise of the power is to re-write the Section. Section
 237(b) must be interpreted in the light of its own language and
 subject-matter. We miss its real import if we begin by referring
 to the construction put by other Judge s on other statutes
 perhaps similar but not the same. The decisions are useful
 when they lay down principles of interpretation or give the
 meaning of the words which have become terms of Art." 43. Further, in Parmeshwar Das (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court,
whilst relying on the dictum in Rohtas Industries (supra) has also
observed as hereinbelow, in this behalf: That opinion may be subjective, but the existence of circumstances
 relevant to the inference as to the sine qua non for action must be
 demonstrable. It is not reasonable to hold that the clause permits the
 Government to say that it has formed an opinion on circumstances
 which it thinks exist. Since existence of circumstances is a condition
 fundamental to the making of the opinion, when questioned the
 existence of these circumstances have to be proved at least prima
 facie. ******
 ****** 46. A bare perusal of this order would indicate that the Central
 Government has referred to the report dated 13th January, 2016, but
 completely misread and misinterpreted it. It has not recommended
 any investigations to be made under the Companies Act, 1956 or
 2013. If at all the investigations are to be made in terms of this
 recommendatory report, or suggestion therein, that is for the multiple
 disciplinary authorities to find out misutilisation of bank finances
 and other violations of law. The respondents ought be aware that
 there is a difference in the language of the two relevant sections,
 namely, section 210 and section 212 . 47. Section 210 falling in the same Chapter XIV titled Inspection,
 Inquiry and Investigation contains these two sections. Section 210 confers a discretion in the Central Government to order an
 investigation into the affairs of the company and that power has to
 be exercised if there is an order passed by a Court or a Tribunal in
 any proceedings before it to the effect that the affairs of a company
 ought to be investigated. Thus sub-section (1) of section 210 confers
 a discretion while sub-section (2) is mandatory in terms. By sub-
 section (3) and when the Central Government orders an investigation
 into the affairs of the company, it may appoint one or more persons
 as Inspectors so as to carry out this task and to report thereon in such
 manner as the Central Government may direct. By section 212 the
 seventeen sub-sections thereof enable investigation into the affairs of
 a company by Serious Fraud Investigation Office. This power is
 without prejudice to the provisions of section 210 . This power is to
 be exercised if the Central Government is of the opinion that it is
 necessary to investigate into the affairs of a company by the SFIO. Therefore, the power to investigate into the affairs of company is
 common to both provisions. In the former there are three clauses (a)
 to (c) in sub-section (1) of section 210 and the investigation is to be
 carried out by the Central Government by appointing Inspectors and
 there is a discretion in that behalf. This power is stated to be akin to section 235 of the 1956 Act. The latter enables investigations into
 the affairs of a company by the SFIO and there is one more clause (d) in sub-section (1) of section 212 where the Central Government
 can act on a request from any department of the Central Government
 or a State Government. Therefore, in a given case there could be an
 action initiated on the request of the Central Vigilance Commission
 or based on its recommendations. However, by its very title, the
 investigation under section 212 by the SFIO ought to be on the basis
 of the opinion of the Central Government that it is necessary to
 investigate into the affairs of the company by SFIO. That opinion
 has to be based on the report of the Registrar or Inspector under section 208 ; on intimation of a special resolution passed by a
 company that its affairs are required to be investigated; in the public
 interest or on the request from any department of the Central
 Government or the State Government. By section 211 , the SFIO is
 established to investigate frauds relating to a company. It is a very
 special office and headed by a Director and consists of such number
 of experts from the fields enumerated in subsection (2) of section
 211 to be appointed by the Central Government from amongst
 persons of ability, integrity and experience. The wide powers that
 this office enjoys, as is set out in various sub-sections of section 212 ,
 would denote as to how its involvement comes after the
 investigations are assigned to it by the Central Government. By their
 very nature the investigations into frauds relating to a company have
 to be assigned. They have to be of such magnitude and seriousness
 demanding involvement of experts in the fields enumerated in sub-
 section (2) of section 211 . Therefore, while exercising the powers
 under sub-section (1) of section 212 , the Central Government ought
 to be not only forming an opinion about the necessity to investigate
 into the affairs of the company, but further that such investigations
 have to be assigned to the SFIO. 48. We do not think that there were materials in the present case and
 which can be termed as enough to warrant the exercise of power by
 the Central Government by resorting to section 212(1) of the Act of
 2013. The Central Government, in the order under challenge, did not
 spell out any circumstances, except outlining its power under the
 above sections to order investigation into the affairs of a company in
 public interest. None disputes that power or its existence. In para 2 WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 32 of 44 of the impugned order, however, a reference is made to the report of
 the Registrar of Companies, West Bengal, dated 13th January, 2016.
 We have already held that the findings in this report are not enough
 for the Central Government to exercise the drastic power. Something
 more was required and to be established as circumstances or material
 enough for exercise of the power. That is clearly lacking in this case. 49. This is the only basis, namely, the report of the Registrar of
 Companies, West Bengal, or its contents which has enabled the
 Central Government to exercise its powers under section 212(1)(c) .
 It is, therefore, apparent that it has not necessarily acted in terms of
 its power conferred by section 212 to direct investigation into the
 affairs of the company in public interest. The foundation for
 reaching the opinion or satisfaction is the report of the Registrar. We
 have referred to the details in that report and we are of the firm
 opinion that based on that the Central Government could not have
 recorded a satisfaction or an opinion that investigation into the
 affairs of the company are necessary. There is no element of public
 interest which is projected, save and except some vague and general
 references to certain allegations in matters of bank finance and
 allotment of coal mines and alleged diversion of raw materials.
 There has been absolutely no details furnished nor referred in the
 report. Rather, the report proceeds on the basis that as far as these
 issues are concerned nothing can be done by the Ministry of
 Corporate Affairs or the Registrar of Companies. We fail to
 understand, therefore, how in the present facts and circumstances
 and based on allegations and counter allegations between two groups
 of shareholders can it be even held that it is necessary in public
 interest to direct an investigation into the affairs of the company.
 Once we reach the conclusion that there is lack of requisite material
 to arrive at the requisite opinion or record the necessary satisfaction,
 then, in exercise of our powers of judicial review, we can safely
 quash and set aside the impugned order. We find that the opinion
 recorded or the satisfaction reached is vitiated by total non
 application of mind. None of the factors which are germane and
 relevant for forming the opinion have been referred. The opinion or
 satisfaction is based only on the complaint of the Member of
 Parliament to the CVC and with regard to which report was called
 for from the Registrar. Even the contents of that report have been, as
 held above, misread and totally misinterpreted. Based on that no
 opinion could have been recorded that it is necessary to investigate
 the affairs of the company in public interest." 44. On a conspectus of the aforesaid decisions, relevant paragraphs of
which have been extracted hereinabove; the following legal position
emerges: 45. Having discussed the principles of law governing the exercise of
discretionary power under section 212(1) of the 2013 Act, it would now
be incumbent upon this Court to consider the material available at the
relevant time, with the Respondent No.1 on the basis of which the
impugned order has been rendered. 46. Upon a perusal of the official record, the facts and circumstances
that led to the formation of the subject opinion, are summarised
hereinbelow: 47. Coming now to the submissions made on behalf of the Petitioner
Company. Strong reliance has been placed on a decision of this Court,
in Ashok Kumar Aggarwal (supra) in support of its contentions qua the
impugned order being bad in law and unsustainable. In my view, the
decision is clearly distinguishable, inasmuch as, it pertained to the issue
whether an order framing charges was vitiated on account of non-
consideration of the relevant material at the time of grant of sanction for
the prosecution of an accused person. In the present case, the Petitioner
Company cannot be heard to say; and it cannot be the case of the
Petitioner Company that relevant material has not been considered by
the Respondent No.1 at the time of formation of the opinion, as is
evident from the contents of the preceding paragraph. Therefore, the
ratio in Ashok Kumar Aggarwal (supra) is not attracted to the facts and
circumstances of the present case. 48. In this behalf, it would be trite to state that a case is only an
authority for what it actually decides, and not what logically follows
from it. (Ref: Lord Halsbury in Quinn v. Leathem, 1901 AC 495). 49. Also, the reliance placed by the Petitioner Company on the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sri Ram Das Motor Transport
Ltd. (supra), is misplaced, inasmuch as , in that case the petitioner had
sought to mask his private interest in relation to the mismanagement of
the affairs of the company and the oppression of the minority
shareholders, as acts jeopardising public interest, by filing a writ petition
under article 226 of the Constitution of India. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court , in that case , categorically held that the petition did not disclose WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 38 of 44 any public interest warranting the institution of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, in the public interest.
In the present case, viewed from the context of the material available
with the Respondent No.1, the submission of the Petitioner Company
that the opinion of the former is not warranted, in the public interest, in
my considered view, is untenable. 50. Similarly, the decision in S.L. Verma (supra), does not come to
the aid of the Petitioner Company, inasmuch as , in that case there was
no specific allegation qua the mismanagement of the affairs of the
company or the oppression of the interests of its shareholders and the
public at large. As aforestated, the submission of the Petitioner Company that the
opinion of Respondent No.1 is without any basis, is misfounded, in view
of the material available on record with the latter, as elaborated
hereinabove. 51. Next, in order to deal with the submission advanced on behalf of
the Petitioner Company that the impugned order is unsustainable in law
on the ground of it being an unreasoned order, it would be profitable to
refer to the relevant portions of the decisions in Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) and Ravi Yaswant Bhoir (supra). 52. In Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) the legal principle enunciated is
that the grounds, on which an order has been rendered, must be judged
by the reasons mentioned therein and cannot be supplemented by way of
fresh reasons by way of filing an affidavit or otherwise. 53. The relevant paragraphs of the report are reproduced as follows: Orders are not like old wine becoming better as they grow
 older." 54. In contrast, the principles laid down in Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) have no application in the present case, inasmuch as, in the
present case, as is delineated hereinabove, the formation of the opinion
by Respondent No.1 was based on the material available before it at the
relevant time when the same was made. The present case is not a case
where the decision unsubstantiated at the relevant time, is being sought
to be supplemented by an affidavit or otherwise subsequently. 55. The relevant paragraph of the report in Ravi Yashwant Bhoir (supra), is reproduced hereinbelow: 56. A perusal of the material on record, in the present case, would
show that the formation of the opinion cannot be assailed on the ground
of it having being rendered without proper application of mind or in a
casual manner. The opinion was formed based on cogent and
creditworthy material warranting investigation in the public interest. The
material justified the ordering of an investigation since the allegations
levelled constituted serious violations of various provisions under the
1956 Act, 2013 Act and the IPC . 57. Further, the bald assertion on behalf of the Petitioner Company to
the effect that the impugned order is a colourable exercise of power, has
been made to be rejected. Nothing has been brought on record in this
behalf, to show that the impugned order proceeded on preconceived
notions. 58. In this behalf, the following principles of law , laid down in Collector v. Raja Ram Jaiswal (supra), are evidently not attracted to the
facts on record in the present case. i. When power has been conferred to achieve a particular purpose,
 then such power ought to be exercised in good faith, for legitimate
 reasons and in order to effectuate that purpose; and
ii. If the exercise of such power is based on extraneous or irrelevant
 considerations, it is unquestionably a colourable exercise of
 power. 59. The contention made on behalf of the Petitioner Company in
 relation to the application of the doctrine of excluding the 'fruits of the
 poisonous tree', is untenable in the present case, inasmuch as, the same
 is not attracted to the facts of the present case, on account of the
 circumstance that it is nobody's case that the material available with
 Respondent No.1 was obtained illegally by the latter; at the time of the
 formation of the opinion. 60. Lastly, the submission made on behalf of the Petitioner Company
 that the impugned order is tantamount to double jeopardy, cannot be
 countenanced, inasmuch as, the formation of the opinion by the
 Respondent No.1 was founded on fresh material received by them, post
 the year 2013, from other sources as well. 61. From a perusal of the above, it is patently clear that the impugned
 order is based upon material that has been prima facie demonstrable
 before this Court. The facts and circumstances summarised in the
 preceding paragraphs hereinabove, also reveal that the impugned order
 cannot be said to have been based on any irrelevant or extraneous
 considerations. In my view, Respondent No.1 has bestowed sufficient WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 42 of 44 attention to the ample material available before it, before passing the
impugned order. 62. The ground on which investigation was found to be warranted is
'public interest', within the meaning of the provisions of section 212 of
the 2013 Act. The Black's Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition, defines the
expression 'public interest' to mean something in which the public, the
community at large, has some pecuniary interest, or some interest by
which their legal rights or liabilities are affected. 63. In view of the facts and circumstances as have been elaborated in
the preceding paragraphs, the argument that the impugned order be set
aside, since no public interest has been made out, is baseless, devoid of
merit and thus rejected. 64. Therefore, the opinion formed by Respondent No.1, to order an
investigation by the SFIO into the affairs of the Petitioner Company, in
the public interest, does not warrant any interference. 65. In view of the foregoing discussion, the issue raised in the present
petition is answered in the negative and against the Petitioner Company.
In my view, the impugned order does not suffer from any infirmity,
much less a conclusion that it was bad in law on account of inadequacy
or insufficiency of material. 66. Before I part with this order, I consider it necessary to refer to the
report dated 31.10.2016, submitted by the SFIO. A bare reading of the
said report would show that the affairs of the Petitioner Company have
been conducted in a manner prejudicial to the public interest, in addition
to that of the shareholders. 67. In view of the findings of the SFIO, I am satisfied that the
recommendation contained therein, warranting prosecution for the
offences punishable under the relevant provisions of the 1956 Act, 2013
Act and the IPC , cannot be said to be without any justification. 68. The present writ petition is accordingly dismissed without any
order as to costs. All pending applications also stand disposed of. 69. The Registry is directed to reseal the official record and hand over
the same to Mr. Dev P. Bhardwaj, Learned CGSC, appearing on behalf
of Respondent No.1, forthwith, after obtaining a receipt therefor.
CRL.M.A. 11283/2016 (by the petitioner company u/s 340 Cr.P.C.)

 The prayers sought by way of the present application have not
been pressed by the Petitioner Company. The application is accordingly dismissed as not pressed. SIDDHARTH MRIDUL, J
 APRIL 26, 2017
 dn/sb/ap WP(C) No.3444/2016 Page 44 of 44