All the three captioned petitions since Page 1 of 8 HC-NIC Page 1 of 8 Created On Tue Aug 22 05:00:35 IST 2017
 C/SCA/21155/2006 JUDGMENT

 involved common facts and identical issue, they were
 heard together and shall be governed by this common
 order. 2. The petitioners are aggrieved as they are
 asked to return the 'Nomadic Tribe' certificates
 issued to them in the year 1986 and in the year 1988,
 recognising them as belonging to the said class. This
 decision to cancel the certificate is reflected in the
 communication dated 01st October, 2004 by the competent
 authority of the Social Welfare Department in case of
 petitioners of first two Special Civil Applications.
 In the third Special Civil Application No.729 of 2009,
 the impugned order is dated 18th December, 2008, by the
 Director of Developing Caste. 3. The petitioners of Special Civil Application
 No.21155 of 2006 is the brother, whereas the
 petitioners in other two petitioners are the real
 sisters. Their case is that they belong to caste named
 Hindu Charan Gadhvi, which is recognised as Socially
 and Educationally Backward Class by the State
 Government. All the three petitioners were given
 certificates recognising them as belonging to 'Nomadic
 Tribe' dated 17th December, 1986, 07th October, 1986
 and 08th March, 1988 respectively by the competent
 authority - Nomadic Tribe Welfare Officer. There is no
 dispute that the father of the petitioners was holding
 a caste certificate of being Socially and
 Educationally Backward Class under the relevant State
 Government Resolution dated 01st April, 1978. Backward Class are recognised as belonging to Nomadic
 Tribe. By Resolution dated 30th March, 1963, the State
 Government recognised certain groups within the
 socially and economically backward class as Nomadic
 Tribe. Amongst such groups, Charan Gadhvi community of
 Vadodara region is recognised as Nomadic Tribe. The
 members of Nomadic Tribe get certain additional
 advantages in the matter of admission to educational
 courses. 3.2 The petitioner Rajesh Dildanbhai Barhat of
 Special Civil Application No.21155 of 2006 completed
 his studies in the engineering branch on the basis of
 status as Nomadic Tribe person. Thereafter, he took
 the service in the state government on the basis of
 this socially and educationally backward class status.
 He is in service at present. The other two petitioners
 Jayshree Dildanbhai Barhatand and Kaushalben
 Dildanbhai Barhat studied in the branch of medicine
 and thereafter entered in the government service. They
 are also presently in service. 3.3 It is the case of the petitioners herein
 that Rajesh Dildanbhai Barhat - the petitioner of
 first captioned petition - had matrimonial disputes,
 whose influential in-laws used the government
 machinery to harass the petitioner and his family
 members; they had filed a Special Civil Application to
 prevent the petitioner Rajeshbhai from being given
 appointment as Industries Officer, Class-II, which was
 however, subsequently came to be withdrawn. It was
 further stated that an application dated 16th August, Page 3 of 8 HC-NIC Page 3 of 8 Created On Tue Aug 22 05:00:35 IST 2017
 C/SCA/21155/2006 JUDGMENT

 2001 came to be submitted to the authorities, as also
 another application at the behest of the in-laws
 complaining that the father of the petitioners had
 obtained admission for their son and daughters by
 producing fraudulent caste certificate as members of
 Nomadic Tribe. It appears that thereupon reports of
 inquiry were were prepared, which led to the impugned
 decision. 3.4 This court issued Rule in each of the
 petitions and granted interim relief restraining the
 respondent authorities from initiating any coercive
 steps against the petitioner for the purpose of
 returning back the Nomadic Tribe certificate issued in
 favour of the petitioner concerned. 4. Heard learned advocate Mr.Vaibhav Vyas for
 the petitioners in each of the petitions and learned
 Assistant Government Pleader Ms.Divyangna Jhala for
 the respondent state authorities. 4.1 Learned advocate for the petitioners
 submitted that there was no evidence to show that any
 fraud was practised by any of the petitioners to
 obtain the certificate. He submitted that the report
 which was relied on by the authority passing the order
 was on the contrary, a favourable one. Learned
 advocate for the petitioners further relied on
 decision of Division Bench of this Court in Jesangbhai
 Dhulabhai Waghela v. State of Gujarat [2016(3) GLR
 2348]. disputed that father of the petitioners belonged to
 Socially and Educationally Backward Class. It was
 further contended that inquiry was assigned to the
 Director of Developing Caste by the State Government
 to look into the certificates of Nomadic Tribe given
 to the petitioner of the first petition and his
 sisters - the petitioners of the other two petitions.
 An inquiry report dated 19th April, 2003 was prepared
 and on the basis of which, it was contended,
 certificates of Nomadic Tribe were sought to be
 cancelled and the petitioners were asked to return the
 same. Learned Assistant Government Pleader further
 submitted that the community Charan Gadhvi was not
 treated as Nomadic Tribe unless the said community
 hailed from certain districts. He relied on
 communication dated 18th May, 2002 and submitted that
 petitioners' father Dildan Barhat had obtained
 certificate of Nomadic Tribe for his offspring by
 producing false documents. 5. It could be noticed that the decision to
 cancel the certificate of Nomadic Tribe of the
 petitioners was based on report dated 19th/21st April,
 2003 of the Director of Developing Caste. Reliance of
 learned Assistant Government Pleader on communication
 dated 18th May, 2002 was misplaced in asmuch as the
 aforesaid report dated 19th/21st April, 2003 was
 subsequent final report on which the decision was
 rested seeking to return of certificate to cancel
 them. The report mentioned that father of the
 petitioners Dildanbhai Barhat was a permanent resident
 of Ahmedabad District and was in Ahmedabad District Page 5 of 8 HC-NIC Page 5 of 8 Created On Tue Aug 22 05:00:35 IST 2017
 C/SCA/21155/2006 JUDGMENT

 prior to 1963. The Charan Gadhvi community of
 Ahmedabad District is entitled to be certified as
 Nomadic Tribe. The report further recorded that the
 petitioners studied their engineering and medical
 courses on the basis of status of Nomadic Tribe. It
 was further mentioned that their entry in the
 government service was on the basis of Socially and
 Educationally Backward Class status. Lastly, the
 report in terms stated that it was not established
 from any fact that petitioners had obtained their
 certificates of Nomadic Tribe by practising any fraud
 or misrepresentation. 5.1 In other words, the contents of the report
 dated 19th/21st April, 2003 were, on the contrary,
 supported the case of the petitioners. It was
 factually found that the certificates were duly issued
 and they were not fraudulently obtained. When such is
 the finding of the report coupled with the fact
 recorded on the basis of the inquiry that father of
 the petitioners was a resident of Ahmedabad District
 even before 1963, it was incomprehensive as to what
 considerations weighed with the authority who passed
 the impugned communication asking the petitioners
 concerned to return the Nomadic Tribe certificates to
 cancel the same. Neither any of the petitioners had
 obtained the certificate by any mal-practice, nor the
 petitioners' family was found to be belonging to the
 Districts such as Bhavnagar, Kutch, Jamnagar, Junagadh
 or Surendranagar to be not entitled to be given the
 status of Nomabid Tribe. As the inquiry report stood
 favourable, there was no reason for the authorities to Page 6 of 8 HC-NIC Page 6 of 8 Created On Tue Aug 22 05:00:35 IST 2017
 C/SCA/21155/2006 JUDGMENT

 pass the impugned decision. 6. In any view, learned advocate for the
 petitioner could successfully rely on the decision of
 the Division Bench of this Court in Jejsangbhai
 Dhulabhai Waghela (supra) in which the caste
 certificate was sought to be cancelled after a gap of
 24 years. The court viewed that even if it was a
 mistake, the same was corrected after a long gap of 24
 years and further that the appellant was not found
 have played any role in obtaining the caste
 certificate by playing fraud. The facts of the case
 and ratio in Jejsangbhai Dhulabhai Waghela (supra)
 would squarely apply to the present case. Twenty years
 have passed after which the authority proceeded to
 take a view that the certificate were liable to be
 cancelled which were issued as back as in 1986. This
 was done even as the inquiry report clearly found that
 the certificates were not issued fraudulently much
 less any role was played by the petitioners in
 obtaining the certificates by practicing any kind of
 fraud. 7. For all the aforesaid reasons, the
 petitioners are liable to succeed in their respective
 petitions. Therefore, the impugned orders dated 01st
 October, 2004 in Special Civil Application No.21155 of
 2006 and Special Civil Application No.22060 of 2006,
 as well as the impugned order dated 18th December, 2008
 in Special Civil Application No.729 of 2009 are hereby
 quashed. All the three petitions stand allowed. Rule
 is made absolute. No costs.