Two appeals were filed by the plaintiffs/appellants against the

bank/defendant/respondent. One of such appeals being FAT 166 of 2017 is
 directed against an order being no. 14 dated 28th February, 2017 passed by the

learned Civil Judge, Senior Division, 2nd Additional Court at Burdwan, in Title

Suit No. 19 of 2016; by which the suit was dismissed partially as the part of the

relief claimed in the suit was found to be not maintainable due to the bar under Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act. The said order was passed on an application

taken out by the defendant bank under Order 7 Rule 11 of the Civil Procedure

Code. The learned Trial Judge while holding that the suit is not partially

maintainable held that the relief which the plaintiffs have claimed for damages

and/or compensation for the wrong or misdeed on the part of the bank is

maintainable. As such, the suit was kept pending for consideration for that part

of the relief claimed by the plaintiff in the said suit. The other appeal being FMA 648 of 2017 is directed against an order

being no. 13 dated 28th February, 2017 passed by the learned Civil Judge, Senior

Division, 2nd Court at Burdwan, in the very same Title Suit being Title Suit No.

19 of 2016. By the impugned order, the application for temporary injunction

which was filed by the plaintiffs/appellants was rejected on contest. The

plaintiffs felt aggrieved. Hence, the plaintiffs/appellants have filed this First

Miscellaneous Appeal. Since the fate of the First Miscellaneous Appeal is dependent on the

fate of the aforesaid regular First Appeal, this Court heard both the appeals and

has decided to dispose of both the appeals simultaneously one after another.
 Re: F.A.T No 166 of 2017

 Let us first of all consider the merit of the First Appeal in the facts of

the present case. The plaintiffs approached the defendant bank for a loan. Loan was

sanctioned. Subsequently, the plaintiffs again approached the said bank for

restructuring loan account. The defendant/bank agreed to enhance the loan

limit as per the revised proposal of the plaintiffs/appellants partially and also

allowed the plaintiffs/appellants to raise further loan from a consortium bank.

While the plaintiffs tried to get loan from the other consortium bank, the other

consortium bank refused to give loan to the plaintiffs/appellants as the

defendant bank declared the account of the plaintiffs/appellants company as

'Sub-standard Account. Problem started from this juncture between the parties. Initially the plaintiffs filed a writ petition before this Court praying

for the following reliefs : standard' to CIBIL database while maintaining in their books as 'Standard' and

restructuring the same dehors the RBI Master Circular dated July 2, 2012 and

the general guidelines for rehabilitation of Micro and Small Enterprises dated

November 1, 2012 is malafide, illegal, null and void. d) A writ of mandamus directing the respondent bank to act in all

fairness and consider the accounts of the petitioner company as on 30th

September, 2011 (Sic), 2012; i.e. as on the cutoff date considered in the

application for restructuring. While deciding the said writ petition, the learned Single Judge of this

Court observed that the R.B.I. circular does not apply and is therefore no help to

the appellant company, as the refinery of the appellant company could not start

regular operation despite its completion in May, 2011. Since the refinery could

not start its operation, the learned Single Judge of this Court held that the

appellant company is becoming sick due to recent global slow down, did not arise

at all. It was, further, held therein that the relationship between the appellants
 and the respondent bank is in the realm of a contract. As such, the writ petition

is not the appropriate remedy for impeaching the contractual obligations for

ascertainment as to whether the respondent bank has violated any of the

contractual stipulation between the parties. It was, further held that the appropriate remedy for impeaching the

contractual obligation is provided by the general laws of the country which the

writ petitioner, namely, the plaintiffs/appellants ought to have pursued. Holding

as such, the said writ petition was dismissed by giving an opportunity to the writ

petitioner, namely, the plaintiffs/appellants herein to pursue their remedies in

accordance with law, with this rider that the observations made in the said

judgment will not influence any subordinate court or tribunal, if approached by

the petitioners, namely, the plaintiffs/appellants. The plaintiffs/appellants felt aggrieved. Hence, they preferred an Intra-

Court appeal being APO No. 338 of 2015 which was disposed of by the Division

Bench of this Court on 1st March, 2016 by maintaining the order of rejection

passed by the learned Single Judge of this Court by making almost identical

observation in the order. According to the Appeal Court, whether there was delay

on account of non-cooperation of the respondent bank in securing fund from the

other bank or sanctioning fund by them and further as to whether the guidelines

of RBI cannot be extended to the appellants in the facts of the present case,

cannot be looked into by the Appeal Court while taking up the mandamus

appeal. While dismissing the said appeal the respondent bank was directed not
 to proceed further in realising its dues as per the Debt Recovery Act for a period

of two weeks from the date of the order. Such interim protection was given to the

appellants in order to accommodate the appellant to approach the Debt Recovery

Tribunal or any other Forum, as it thinks fit proper and correct in the available

circumstances for seeking the releifs which was declined by the Appeal Court. Fact remains that notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act was

issued by the defendant bank after classifying the appellant's account as non-

performing account. Steps were also taken by the defendant bank as per Section

13(4) of the SARFAESI Act. In this set of fact the plaintiffs/appellants

approached Debt Recovery Tribunal III Kolkata by filing an application being SA

No. 309 of 2015 claiming reliefs under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. The

respondent bank appeared in the said proceeding and raised a preliminary

objection as to the competence of the Tribunal to adjudicate the dispute raised by

the applicants in the said proceeding. A definite and positive stand was taken by

the respondent bank before the Tribunal that the appropriate forum for

consideration of the dispute which is raised by the plaintiffs/appellants in the

said proceeding, will be the Civil Court and Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act will

not operate as a bar for institution of the suit against the respondent bank for

pursuing their remedy before the Civil Court. After considering the submission advanced on behalf of the respondent

bank and also after taking note of the order passed by the learned Single Judge

of this Court in the writ petition as well as the order passed by the Appeal Court

in the mandamus appeal as aforesaid, the learned Tribunal expressed its opinion
 that Tribunal is not within the jurisdiction under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act

2002 to grant any relief as claimed by the applicant in the said proceeding. Such

conclusion was drawn by the learned Tribunal as the learned Tribunal found that

the objection which was raised by the applicant therein mainly relates to the

challenge thrown against initial action by the respondent bank i.e., short and

delayed financing, non-providing the reliefs available to MSME sector, non-

compliance of directions of RBI etc.

 In this back ground the learned Tribunal after accepting the submission of

the respondent bank that Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act will not operate as bar

in maintaining the civil suit held that there would be no bar under Section 34 of

the SARFAESI Act to the applicants in filing suit before the Civil Court.

Accordingly the said proceeding being SA No. 309 of 2015 was dismissed. Liberty

was given to the plaintiffs/appellants to raise those issues and/or to ventilate

their grievances which were raised in the said proceeding before the appropriate

Civil Court having jurisdiction as per law. Liberty was also given to the

respondent bank to defend themselves before the Civil court if any such

litigation/suit is filed. While disposing of the said proceeding, the learned

Tribunal directed the respondent bank not to take any coercive action at least for

four weeks from the date of the said order for enabling the appellants to

approach the appropriate Civil Court with the rider that in case the claimants fail

to obtain any suitable injunction from the Civil Court within four weeks, the

respondent bank shall be at liberty to proceed in the matter as per rules and in
 that event injunction shall automatically stand withdrawn after expiry of four

weeks. Neither party to the said proceeding challenged the legality of the said

order passed by the learned Tribunal before the Appellate Authority. As such,

the order which was passed by the learned Tribunal is binding upon the parties. Pursuant to the order passed by the learned Tribunal in the said

proceeding, the plaintiff filed the present suit being Title Suit No. 19 of 2016

before the Court of the learned Civil Judge (Senior Division) 2nd Additional Court

at Burdwan. The cause of action of the said suit was mainly founded on the

allegation of breach of contract made by the defendant bank in disbursing the

loan amount as per the agreement and/or illegal adjustment of cash credit and a

letter of credit limit against interest that was debited against the long-term loans

and adjustment of interest as against short-term loan though the plaintiff no.1

was not allowed to run its plant in terms of the rehabilitation scheme due to the

failure of the bank to provide nearly 70% of the incremental portion of the

working capital facilities as per the bank's own assessment as appearing in the

sanctioned letter in respect thereof. It was also alleged by the

plaintiffs/appellants that denial and refusal of the defendant no.1 to provide the

plaintiffs with the bank's benefits under the said RBI guidelines/circulars dated

4th May, 2009 and 1ST November, 2012 as evident from notice dated 30th March,

2015 and another issued by the defendant bank also formed part of causes of

action of the said suit. The plaintiffs/appellants thus claimed that it suffered

huge losses due to short and delayed financing, non-providing the reliefs
 available to MSME sector, non-compliance of the directions of the RBI etc. The

plaintiff claimed the following releifs in the said suit. (a) Decree for Rs.15219.86 lacs in favour of the plaintiff No.1 as against the

 defendant No.1 as more fully stated in paragraphs 67,68 and 69 above; (b) Alternatively, an enquiry into damages and decree for such sums as may

 be found due and payable to the plaintiffs by the defendant No.1; (c) True and faithful accounts be taken of all dealings and transactions

 between the plaintiff No.1 and the defendant No.1 and an enquiry be

 made for the purpose of ascertaining what amount, if any, is due and

 payable by the defendant No.1 to the plaintiff No.1 or vice versa after

 taking into consideration what has been stated above; (d) Decree for such sum as may be found due and payable upon such

 accounts being taken and enquiry being taken in terms of prayer ©

 above; (e) Mandatory injunction directing the defendant No.1 to forthwith return to

 the plaintiff No.1 the title deeds pertaining to the properties more fully

 described in Schedule C hereto; (f) Mandatory injunction directing the defendant No.1 to forthwith return to

 the plaintiff Nos. 2 and 3 the title deeds pertaining to the property more

 fully described in Schedule D hereto; (g) Mandatory injunction directing the defendant No.1 to return to the

 defendant No.3 the title deeds pertaining to the properties more fully

 described in Schedule E hereto; (h) Mandatory injunction directing the defendant No.1 to discharge its second

 charge over the properties more fully described in Schedule F hereto

 against payment of any amount that may be ultimately found due and

 payable by the plaintiff No.1 to the defendant No.1 and in case, no money

 is found to be due and payable, then and in that case, immediately upon

 such finding being rendered by this Learned Court; (i) Mandatory injunction directing the defendant No.1 to discharge the

 guarantee given by the defendant No.2 to the defendant No.1 for the

 plaintiff No. 1's credit facilities; (j) Interim interest and interest upon judgment @ 18% per annum (k) Receiver; (l) Injunction; (m) Attachment; (n) Costs; (o) Such further and/or other releif or reliefs. In the said suit, the defendant/Bank filed an application challenging

maintainability of the suit before the civil court. It is stated by them that on the

request made by the plaintiffs, the defendant/Bank rendered financial support

for the expansion of business of the plaintiffs after enquiry and verification of the

relevant documents relating to the plaintiffs' proposed business. The properties

mentioned in the schedule of plaint were mortgaged against the loan advanced by

the Bank by deposit of title deeds and other documents. The plaintiffs and its
 guarantors committed default in payment of loan which led to declaration of its

account as NPA. The demand notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act

was served on 30th March, 2015 demanding a sum of Rs.50,81,38,799/- and

interest accrued thereon. The plaintiffs and its guarantors neglected the said

notice. The notice under Section 13(4) of the said Act was served after expiry of

60 days. The notice was duly published in all leading newspapers. A proceeding

initiated by the bank before D.R.T.-III, Kolkata for recovery of the debts of the

appellant is pending before the Tribunal. Another application under Section 14 of

the SARFAESI Act, 2002 is pending before the D.M., Burdwan. The

defendant/Bank, thus, claimed that provision of Section 34 of the said Act ousts

the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to entertain the said suit as the dispute raised

in the said suit concerns a dispute which is capable of being redressed by the

Tribunal as per the SARFAESI Act, 2002 . It was contended by the bank that

Debt Recovery Tribunal has exclusive jurisdiction to entertain such dispute

under Section 17 of the said Act. The respondent/Bank, thus, prayed for dismissal of the said suit, as

according to the defendant bank, the suit was filed only to avoid the liability of

the plaintiffs to repay the loan by indirectly challenging the legality of the notice

under Section 13(2) or Section 13(4) of the said Act. According to the defendant,

the legality of the notice under Section 13(2) and the steps taken under Section

13(4) of the SARFAESI Act cannot be challenged in the suit before the civil court
 in view of Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act. The Bank, thus, claimed that the suit

is liable to be dismissed. Learned Trial Judge disposed of the defendant's said application

under Order 7 Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure by the impugned order

holding that the suit is partially not maintainable in respect of the allegation

against the statutory notice under the SARFAESI Act as well as the prayer

relating to the decree for mandatory injunction i.e., prayers (d) to (i) mentioned in

the plaint. The legality of the said order is under challenge in this appeal. While passing the impugned order, the learned Trial Judge held that

the relief for damages claimed by the plaintiffs is, however, maintainable. The

legality of this part of the said order has not been challenged in this appeal. Let us now consider as to how far the learned Trial Judge was

justified in passing the impugned order in the facts of the present case. The bar in maintaining a civil suit before the civil court for

challenging certain action taken by the Bank and/or other financial institutions

for recovering the unpaid loan amount from the debtor is provided under Section

34 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 which runs as follows:- To attract the provision of Section 34 of the said Act, it must be

established that the dispute which is raised in the suit concerns any matter

which a debt recovery tribunal or the appellate tribunal is empowered to

determine by or under the SARFAESI Act . Let us now consider as to whether this condition is satisfied in the

instant case so as to attract the provision contained in Section 34 of the said Act. Mr. Mitra, learned advocate appearing for the plaintiffs/appellants-

Bank has relied upon in following decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court to

demonstrate before us that the suit for recovery of damages and for injunction is

well maintainable before the Civil Court. (i) In the case of Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. Vs. Hong Cong and

 Shanghai Banking Corporation reported in (2009)8 SCC 646.

 Mr. Saha, learned advocate appearing for the Bank has also relied upon

following decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court to impress upon us that if any
 challenge is made in the suit touching any dispute which is triable by the debt

recovery tribunal and/or the appellate tribunal, such dispute is not

entertainable by the Civil Court. (i) In the case of Jagdish Sigh Vs. Hirlalal & Ors. reported in (2014)1

 SCC 479. (ii) In the case of Eureka Forbes Ltd. Vs. Allahabad Bank & Ors . Reported in (2010)6 SCC 193. (iii) In the case of State Bank of Patiala Vs. Mukesh Jain & Anr. reported

 in (2017)1 SCC 53. In Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. the Hon'ble Supreme has held that Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act does not oust the jurisdiction of the Civil Court

altogether to entertain a suit under Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code. It was

held therein that the jurisdiction of the Civil Court is plenary in nature and the

Civil Court is entitled to decide the respective claims of the parties in a suit

unless the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to entertain such suit under Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code is ousted expressly by a statute or by necessary

implication therefrom. After examining the scope and/or ambit of the Debt

Recovery Act and the SARFAESI Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held therein

that the Debt Recovery Tribunal cannot be treated as a Civil Court, as the said

Debt Recovery Tribunal was constituted with a specific purpose and has a limited

jurisdiction; it can neither pass a decree nor can debtor seek declaratory relief

from the Debt Recovery Tribunal. The Debt Recovery Tribunal can only issue
 recovery certificate. Some instances were also mentioned in the said judgment . It

was further held therein that notwithstanding the provision contained in Section

34 of the SARFAESI Act, the Civil Court's jurisdiction is not ousted in certain

circumstances; say for example, (i) the banks and the financial institution for the

purpose of enforcement of their claim for a sum below rupees ten lakh is required

to file civil suit before the Civil Court; (ii) even the debtors can file their claims or

set off or counter-claim before the Civil Court; (iii) even before filing any

proceeding or recovery of debt by the bank or the financial institution, the debtor

may file preemptive suits and obtain order of injunction; (iv) civil suit is also

maintainable in a case where allegation of fraud and misrepresentation is

involved; (v) Civil Court's jurisdiction can also be invoked when several other

issues of complicated nature may arise between the parties etc. The decision which was cited by Mr. Saha either in the case of Jagadish

Singh Vs. Hiralal and Ors. (supra) or in the case of State Bank of Patiala Vs.

Mukesh Jain & Anr. (supra) or in the case of Eureka Forbes Ltd. Vs. Allahabad

Bank & Ors. (supra) do not lay down any principle of law different from the

principles which were laid down in the case of Jagadish Singh Vs. Hiralal & Ors. In the case of Jagadish Singh Vs. Hiralal & Ors(supra) the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act confers a right of

appeal to any person including the borrower, if that person is aggrieved by any of

the measures taken by the secured creditor under Section 13(4) of the said Act.

It was further held therein that Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act ousted the Civil
 Court's jurisdiction when the secured creditor proposes to proceed against the

secured asset under Section 13(4) . It was further held therein that the expression

"in respect of any matter" referred to in Section 34 would mean taking any

measure provided under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act and consequently, if

any aggrieved person has got any grievance against any measures taken by the

bank against the borrower under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act, the remedy

open to him is to approach the DRT or the Appellate Tribunal and not the Civil

Court. The Civil Court in such circumstances has no jurisdiction to entertain any

suit or proceedings in respect of those matters which fall under Section 13(4) of

the SARFAESI Act, because those matters fell within the jurisdiction of the DRT

and the Appellate Tribunal. It was further held therein that Section 35 says the SARFAESI Act overrides other laws, if they are inconsistent with the provisions

of that Act which takes in Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code as well. In State Bank of Patiala Vs. Mukesh Jain & Anr. (supra) the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that when the amount of debt due is more than Rs.10 lakh,

no Civil Court, in view of Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act, is having jurisdiction

to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter which Debt Recovery

Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal is empowered by or under the Act to

determine the dispute. Further, the Civil Court has no right to issue any

injunction in pursuance of any action taken under the 2002 Act under the

provision of RDDB Act, 1993. In Eureka Forbes Ltd. Vs. Allahabad Bank & Ors. (Supra ), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, after considering the definition of debt in Section 2(g) of the Act

of 1993, held that legislature has not restricted the jurisdiction of the DRT to

relationship of a creditor or debtor alone but has extended the jurisdiction of

DRT to try a party intermeddling with hypothecated goods without authority of

law, not being the debtor. It was further held therein that the debtor cannot be

permitted to take advantage of its own wrong and cannot cause any delay in

repayment of its liability on the plea that goods had been disposed of. This Court has given an anxious consideration to the decisions cited at the

bar. On perusal of those decisions, it appears to us that if the amount of debt

due to the Bank is more than Rs.10 lakh, no Civil Court, in view of Section 34 of

the SARFAESI Act, will have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or any proceeding

in respect of any matter which a Debt Recovery Tribunal or Appellate Tribunal is

empowered to determine by or under the Act. However, there are some

exceptions to the general principles which are as follows:- It is no doubt true that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Jagdish

 Singh Vs. Hiralal & Ors. (supra) held that the suit for declaration and

 partition is not maintainable before the Civil Court but such

 conclusion was drawn by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, as after

 considering the evidence of the parties, the Hon'ble apex court found

 that the plaintiff therein failed to establish that mortgage property

 was a HUF property and the said property was acquired during the

 life time of the (Karta) being the father of the plaintiff by utilizing the

 joint family fund. Facts in the present case is totally different from the facts of

 the case which was before the Hon'ble Supreme Court as in the

 present case the Court unlike the Hon'ble Supreme Court has no
 opportunity to consider the evidence of the parties at this stage as

 the written statement is yet to be filed in the suit. Keeping in mind the aforesaid principles of law, let us now consider

as to whether the learned Trial Judge was justified in passing the impugned

order in the facts of the present case. We have already mentioned above, the cause of action for filing the

above suit before the civil court. The reliefs which the plaintiffs/appellants have

claimed in the said suit have also been quoted hereinabove. On reading the

plaint, we do not find that the legality of the notice under Section 13(2) and/or

the steps taken by the Bank under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act has been

challenged in the said suit. The principal relief claimed in the said suit is for

recovery of damages and for holding an enquiry for damages i.e. for

ascertainment of the loss sustained by the plaintiffs/appellants due to delayed

financing, refusal to provide relief for revival of the sick unit, granting lesser

amount etc. Such reliefs were claimed by the appellants without challenging the

legality of the notice under Section 13(2) and/or steps taken by the Bank under Section 13(4) of the said Act. Incidentally the plaintiffs/appellants have claimed

release of their title deeds amongst other incidental reliefs. Needless to mention

here that the quantum of damages which is claimed by the plaintiffs in the said

suit surpasses, the quantum of claim mentioned by the Bank in its notice under Section 13(2) of the said Act. As a matter of fact, the Bank has already filed a
 proceeding before the debt recovery tribunal for realisation of the dues payable by

the plaintiffs/appellants. The said proceeding is still pending before the tribunal.

The plaintiffs/appellants have not prayed for stay of the recovery proceeding

pending before the Tribunal. Thus, on overall assessment of the facts and circumstances of the

instant case, we have no hesitation to hold that this is essentially a suit for

recovery of damages where incidentally the other reliefs regarding release of the

title deeds etc. were also claimed by the plaintiffs by way of mandatory

injunction. If in such a suit, the plaintiffs can establish their claim for damages

and if a decree is passed in favour of the plaintiff/appellants and the decretal

amount exceeds the bank's claim, the certificate which will be issued by the

Tribunal to the extent of the bank's claim will be ultimately adjusted by way of

set off against the decree for damage to be passed by the Civil Court and in that

event the bank cannot retain the title deeds which the plaintiffs deposited for

securing the loan taken by the plaintiffs from the Bank by way of equitable

mortgage. If on the contrary, the Civil suit is dismissed and certificate of recovery

is ultimately issued by the DRT, then the bank can realise its dues by sell of the

mortgaged property. But in any event the Tribunal, in our view, is incompetent

to decide the disputed questions of facts raised in the suit concerning the

plaintiffs' claim for damage. In fact the Trial Court has retained the suit in itself

so far as the plaintiffs claim for damages is concerned. This part of the trial

Court's finding and/or order remains unchallenged and thus attained its

finality. If the suit which relates to the primary relief is held to be maintainable
 before the Civil Court then we do not find any justifiable reason for holding that

the incidental reliefs cannot be granted by the Civil Court. Had it been a fact that any of the actions taken by the Bank either by

issuance of notice under Section 13(2) and/or the steps taken by the Bank under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act been challenged in the suit, then the civil

court could have lost the jurisdiction to entertain the suit which relates to such

challenge regarding legality of issuance of notice under Section 13(2) and/or the

steps taken by the Bank under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act. Having regard to the fact that we have already held above that no part of

the causes of action is founded on the basis of any challenge with regard to the

legality of the notice under Section 13(2) of the said Act and/or the steps taken

by the Bank under Section 13(4) of the said Act we are of the view that Section

34 of the SARFAESI Act cannot stand in the way in maintaining the suit which is

primarily a suit for recovery of damages where some incidental reliefs were

claimed by way of mandatory injunction for release of the title deeds etc.

Allegations are also made by the defendant bank against the plaintiff herein for

siphoning of the loan amount to the other company and thereby the plaintiffs

have committed fraud upon the bank by not utilizing the fund by the plaintiff

company for which the loan was advanced by the bank. Thus, an issue relating

to element of fraud is also likely to be raised in the said suit along with the other

issues which are likely to be raised in the suit. Thus, we hold the issues which

are likely to be raised in such suit are required to be resolved by trial on evidence
 which can only be done conveniently before the Civil Court and not before the

Tribunal where the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code or the Evidence Act are not followed. That apart, we have also mentioned hereinabove that when the

plaintiffs/appellants earlier approached the Tribunal on identical issue seeking

identical relief before the Tribunal, the learned Tribunal, accepting the

submission made by the defendant-bank held that the dispute which is raised in

the said proceeding before the learned Tribunal, is of such nature which is

required to be tried by the Civil Court and not by the Tribunal. When the learned

Tribunal by accepting such submission of the defendant-bank dismissed the

proceeding initiated by the plaintiffs/appellants before the Tribunal seeking

identical relief therein, the decision which was so taken by the Tribunal, even if it

is erroneous and/or illegal, will certainly operate as res judicata on the identical

issue which is now being raised in the present suit between the same parties

before the Civil Court. The defendant bank cannot take different stand at

different point of time to make the plaintiffs/appellants non-suited. In this

regard, we may refer to the following decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as

well as of this High Court:- reported in 2012(3) CHN 110. Before parting with we like to mention here that both the suit pending

before the Civil Court and the recovery proceeding pending before the DRT can

be proceeded with simultaneously and if the suit is decreed and the decretal

amount on account of damages exceeds the bank's claimed amount then the

decree for mandatory injunction claimed in the suit by way of incidental reliefs

can be allowed by the Civil Court as under such circumstances there will be no

recoverable dues which the bank can realise from the appellant company

resulting automatic discharge of the security which was guaranteed by way of

mortgage. It necessarily follows that if the decree for damages is refused or if the

decree for damages is less than the claimed amount of the bank, then the

plaintiff will not be entitled to get the relief by way of mandatory injunction and

the bank may still enforce mortgage for recovery of its certificated dues. Then

again if the suit is disposed of earlier granting the decree for damage in favour of

the plaintiff before issuance of certificate by the DRT then conditional relief may

be granted by the Civil Court subject to the decision of the Tribunal. As such, we hold that the impugned order passed by the learned Trial

Judge holding a portion of the relief claimed by the plaintiffs in the suit which

relates to a decree for mandatory injunction i.e, (d) to (i) mentioned in the plaint

is not maintainable, is not sustainable. We thus, set aside the judgment and/or order passed by the learned Trial

Judge on 28.02.2017 vide order no.14. The suit as it is framed, in our considered view, is maintainable as a

whole. The instant appeal is thus, allowed. Re: FMA No. 648 of 2017 Let us now consider the other appeal being First Miscellaneous Appeal

being F.M.A 648 of 2017. By the impugned order being no.13 dated 28th

February, 2017 passed by the learned Trial Judge in Title Suit no.19 of 2016, the

plaintiffs' prayer for temporary injunction was rejected by the learned Trial

Judge. After filing the said suit, the plaintiffs filed an application for temporary

injunction praying for the following reliefs:-