BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE 1. On receipt of DD No. 27A dated 08.04.2020, IO along
with Ct. Vikas reached Hedgewar Hospital and collected the
MLC of Sant Lal, aged 60 years. The patient was brought dead to
the hospital with the alleged history of physical assault by known
person 30 minutes back and he was unconscious. After
postmortem, the dead body of Sant Lal was handed over to his State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 1 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 2. Complainant Manish Gautam, S/o Sant Lal alleged
that his neighbour Nanhe Lal was harassing him for last 4-5 days
and on 08.04.2020, when he was returning to his home after
taking food from Bhandara nearby his home, accused Nanhe Lal
met him on the way and started abusing him and told him to
bring money from his father, then complainant told this fact to
his father that accused Nanhe Lal was harassing him and his
father accompanied him at about 12.45 PM and when they
reached outside road, accused Nanhe Lal was standing outside
the Kabadi Shop of Shahid and they talked to him, but he started
abusing them and started scuffling with them and during scuffle,
his father and accused Nanhe reached outside the house of Sunita
and accused Nanhe took out one heavy wooden danda and hit it
on the head of his father Sant Lal due to which, he became
unconscious and fell down and accused fled the spot. His father
was taken to Hedgewar Hospital. 3. On the above complaint of the complainant, the FIR
No. 149/2020 was registered in PS Farsh Bazar u/s 304 IPC.
After investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused
Nanhe Lal u/s 304 IPC and after filing of charge-sheet,
cognizance of offence was taken. CHARGE 4. Charge for the offence punishable u/s 304 IPC was
framed against the accused Nanhe Lal by Ld. Predecessor on
27.01.2022. Accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: In view of above-said admission, the requirement of
evidence of following witnesses was dispensed with : PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 6. Prosecution examined six (6) witnesses in its favour
to prove the case. 7. PW1 Manish deposed that he was working in a sofa
repairing shop and on 08.04.2020, when he was present near
shop of Shahid Kabadi at about 12:30 pm, accused Nanhe Lal
came and had beaten him and thereafter, PW1 went to his house
and told the same to his father, who said that he would make
accused Nanhe Lal understand and thereafter PW1 along with his
father reached near Shahid Kabadiwala. Accused Nanhe Lal was
present there and hit a danda on the head of his father, due to
injury, his father sat on earth and he shifted his father to Dr.
Hedgewar Hospital by vehicle and as soon as they reached the State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 3 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 8. PW1 identified his signature on his statement dt.
09.04.2020, Ex.PW1/A. After postmortem, dead body was
received by him and his brother. PW1 identified his signatures on
request for postmortem of dead body, Ex.PW1/B, inquest
proceedings, Ex.PW1/C, his statement, Ex.PW1/D and
identification of dead body, Ex.PW1/E. The cremation of his
father was carried by them. Police apprehended accused Nanhe
Lal, but not in the presence of PW1. PW1 had seen accused
Nanhe Lal in the police station when he went there to make
statement. PW1 correctly identified the wooden danda having
nails (keel), Ex.P1, which was used by accused Nanhe Lal to hit
his father. 9. PW1 admitted in his cross-examination by Ld. Addl.
PP that accused Nanhe Lal was harassing him 4-5 days prior to
the day of incident i.e. 08.04.2020 and on 08.04.2020, when he
was returning to his house after collecting food from bhandara,
accused Nanhe Lal met him on his way and started abusing him
and accused Nanhe Lal also stated that "apne pita se paise lakar
de". PW1 along with his father Sant Lal (deceased) reached at
the shop of Shahid Kabadi at about 12:45 pm and then they
started talking with accused Nanhe Lal and he started abusing
and manhandling (hatha-pai) them, during which his father and State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 4 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 10. PW1 further admitted in his cross-examination by Ld.
Addl. PP that on 09.04.2020, he along with IO went to the place
of incident where IO prepared site plan, Mark-Z at his instance.
He along with IO and other police staff went in search of accused
Nanhe Lal and when they reached near Nepali Mandir, DDA
Park, he was present there and apprehended by the police staff on
his identification. IO arrested accused Nanhe Lal vide arrest
memo, Ex.PW1/F and his personal search was conducted vide
memo, Ex.PW1/G and his disclosure statement, Ex.PW1/H was
recorded and he got recovered the wooden danda from the park
situated near Khatta (Kudde Dan) in front of NSA Colony, D-
Block, which was seized by IO vide seizure memo, Ex.PW1/I
and sealed with the seal of NK. PW1 had correctly identified
accused Nanhe Lal in the court. 11. PW2 Sumit Kumar deposed that he was illiterate and
working as worker in a factory and on 08.04.2020 at about 12:00
noon, his younger brother Amit, again said Manish returned to
their house after taking bhandara (food). His brother Manish told
his father that accused Nanhe Lal used to harass him and
thereafter, his father told his brother that "aa mai use samjha deta
hu". After about 15-20 minutes, his father and brother went to a
shop of Shahid Kabadi to make accused Nanhe Lal understand.
Someone from neighbourhood gave information that accused
Nanhe Lal had hit his father on his head with danda. He went to State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 5 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: the shop of Shahid Kabadi Wala and found that his father was
lying unconscious there and his father was taken to Hedgewar
Hospital by PW2, his brother Manish and some other public
persons. 12. PW2 further deposed that at hospital after
checking/examination, his father was declared dead by the
doctors. Thereafter, dead body of his father was sent for the
postmortem. PW2 identified the dead body of his father vide
identification statement Ex.PW2/A and after postmortem, dead
body of his father was handed over to them. 13. PW2 admitted in his cross-examination by Ld. Addl.
PP that when his brother Manish returned from the Bhandara to
their house, he disclosed that accused Nanhe Lal was harassing
him for past few days and on the date of incident ( Nanhe Lal
usko kai dino se pareshan kar rha hai aur aaj bhi kiya'). PW2 had
correctly identified one wooden danda having nail (keels) upon
it, Ex. P1. PW2 had correctly identified accused Nanhe Lal in the
court. 14. PW3 Sunita deposed that she was running a grocery
shop at her house and on 08.04.2020, at about 12:00-01:00 pm,
she was present in her shop, 3-4 persons came in front of her
house while fighting. One of them took out a danda and hit the
same on the head of another person. That person got unconscious
and fell down. Two persons took that injured person to the
hospital on a scooty. On the next day, she came to know that
injured person had died. PW3 admitted in her cross-examination
by Ld. Addl. PP that the name of the person, who was hit with the State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 6 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 15. PW4 HC Jai Govind deposed that on 09.04.2020, he
was posted as Constable at PS Farsh Bazar. On that day, he was
present at PS Farsh Bazar and Duty Officer handed over him
original rukka and copy of FIR bearing No. 149/20 for handing
over the same to IO/SI Nitin. PW4 went to the spot i.e. in front of
Kuda-Khatta, near Shahid Kabadi ki Dukan, NSA Colony, where
he met IO/SI Nitin and complainant and he handed over the
original rukka and copy of FIR to IO/SI Nitin and then, he
prepared the site plan at the instance of complainant. Thereafter,
they all including complainant Manish went in search of accused
and when they reached in front of Nepali Mandir, DDA Park,
Vishwas Nagar, complainant pointed out towards accused Nanhe
Lal as he was standing there and IO SI Nitin along with PW4
apprehended him. 16. PW4 further deposed that accused Nanhe Lal was
interrogated by IO/SI Nitin and then, he was arrested by IO vide
arrest memo, Ex.PW1/F, his personal search was also conducted
by IO vide memo, Ex.PW1/G and his disclosure statement was
also recorded by the IO vide disclosure statement, Ex.PW1/H, in
which he disclosed that he could get recover the weapon of
offence used by him from Kuda-Khatta (place where garbage
was temporarily kept), near park, D-Block, NSA Colony, near
Bhikam Singh Colony, Delhi. Thereafter, accused Nanhe Lal
took them (including complainant Manish) to the Kuda-Khatta,
near park, D-Block, NSA Colony, near Bhikam Singh Colony,
Delhi and got recovered one danda in rectangular (Chaukor) State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 7 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 17. PW4 further deposed that complainant Manish
identified that danda as the weapon, which was used by accused
Nanhe Lal. Thereafter, IO wrapped the danda in a white colour
cloth and then sealed the same with the seal of NK. Thereafter,
seized the same vide seizure memo, Ex.PW1/I. Seal after use was
handed over to him by the IO. The abovesaid danda was
deposited in the Malkhana of PS Farsh Bazar by the IO. PW6 had
correctly identified one danda in rectangular (choakor) shape and
having nails (keel), Ex.P1, which was got recovered by accused
Nanhe Lal. PW4 had correctly identified accused Nanhe Lal in
the court. 18. PW5 SI Nitin deposed that on 08.04.2020, he was
posted as SI at PS Farsh Bazar and on that day, on receiving DD
No. 27-A, Ex.P1/B, he along with Ct. Vikas Hudda reached at Dr.
Hedgewar Hospital and collected the MLC of injured Sant Lal
and doctor declared that person as brought dead. PW5 sent the
dead body of Sant Lal to the Sabzi Mandi Mortuary for
preservation. The above said DD was kept pending. On
09.04.2020, he got conducted the postmortem of deceased Sant
Lal and the cause of death was "cerebral damage consequent
upon blunt force trauma to head", which was sufficient to cause
death in ordinary course of nature. 19. PW5 further deposed that after postmortem, he came
back at PS and recorded the statement of complainant Manish
Gautam, Ex.PW1/A and prepared the rukka, Ex.PW5/A and
handed over the same to duty officer for registration of FIR. The State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 8 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 20. PW5 further deposed that he along with complainant
Manish went to the spot i.e. near Shahid Kabadi shop, near Kuda
Khatta, NSA Colony, Delhi and he prepared the site plan,
Ex.PW5/B. After sometime, Ct. Jai Govind also reached at the
spot and handed over original rukka and copy of FIR to PW5.
PW5 had made efforts to apprehend accused Nanhe Lal and they
reached at DDA Park in front of Nepali Mandir where he was
arrested on the identification of complainant Manish vide arrest
memo, Ex.PW1/F and his personal search was also conducted
vide memo, Ex.PW1/G. PW5 recorded disclosure statement of
accused Nanhe Lal, Ex.PW1/H in which he disclosed that he had
thrown away wooden danda in the park adjoining the kuda
khatta, NSA Colony, D-Block after the incident and he could get
recover the same. Thereafter, accused Nanhe Lal took them to the
above said park and got recovered one wooden danda in chaukor
shape (square shape) with nails (keel) (measuring around 4.5 ft.)
from the above said park, which was wrapped in a white colour
cloth and the same was sealed with the seal of 'NK' and seized
vide seizure memo, Ex.PW1/I. PW5 correctly identified the said
danda, Ex.P1. Case property was deposited in the malkhana. 21. PW5 further deposed that on 10.04.2020, accused
Nanhe Lal was produced before the Hon'ble Court and sent to JC
and on 03.07.2020, PW5 sent the medical documents including
PM report along with above said sealed pullanda to Sabzi Mandi State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 9 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 22. PW6 Dr. Kamlesh Kumar, Forensic Specialist,
deposed that on 09.04.2020, he was posted as Senior Resident at
Department of Forensic Medicine, Aruna Asif Ali Hospital, Sabzi
Mandi Mortuary, Delhi. On that day, on the request of IO/SI
Nitin, PS Farsh Bazar, he started the postmortem of dead body of
Sant Lal, S/o Baij Nath at about 12:00 noon and completed the
postmortem at about 01:40 pm.
 On external examination, following injuries were
found: On internal examination, following head injuries were
found: Parenchyma was congested and oedematous. 23. PW6 deposed that after postmortem, he gave final
opinion regarding the cause of death as follows: 24. PW6 deposed that on 03.07.2020, IO/SI Nitin Kumar,
PS Farsh Bazar sealed one pullanda before him and requested
him to give opinion regarding the possibility of causing injuries
to the deceased with the help of danda in the above said sealed
pullanda. PW6 opened the seal of NK and examined the wooden
danda and found that it was in triangular shape. He made a
diagram (unscaled) of the above said wooden danda in his report
and sealed the same with the seal of CMO I/C AAA.G.H, Sabzi
Mandi Mortuary after the examination by him in the light of PM
Report. 25. PW6 further deposed that after examination and
considering the wooden danda and the PM Report, he opined that State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 11 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 26. Statement of accused Nanhe Lal was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C./351 BNSS on 19.11.2024 and he denied the incriminating
evidence put to him and stated that all witnesses are interested
witnesses and he was falsely implicated by the police officials in
the present case without any fault on his part and he was innocent
and few days prior to the alleged incident, there was a quarrel
between his daughter and the children of deceased and the family
of deceased had threatened to implicate him in a false case and
incident with the deceased would have occurred with someone
else and to take revenge from him, family members of deceased
had falsely implicated him by taking his name as the person, who
caused him injury though he never caused any injury to the
deceased with any wooden danda. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE,
 ANALYSIS OF WITNESSES AND FINDING
 ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF ACCUSED 27. It is argued by Ld. LAC for the accused that he had
been falsely implicated by the police at the instance of
complainant and he has not been involved in the instant case as State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 12 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 28. Ld. Addl. PP for State has argued that prosecution has
proved its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt and
PW1 and PW2 have supported the case of prosecution and
despite hostility, they have proved the case of prosecution and it
is settled law that evidence of a hostile witness or a partially
hostile witness can not be discarded in toto and the evidence,
which favours the prosecution can be accepted and the manner of
crime committed by accused is deposed by these witnesses and
PW1 was the only eye witness and PW2 had not witnessed the
incident. PW1 is consistent in his statement and nothing has
come in his cross-examination to doubt his veracity. The
postmortem as well as the MLC of deceased also proves that
injury was caused on the head with the wooden danda, which is
vital part of the body and as regards the dimension of wooden
danda, it was explained by PW5/IO that he had mentioned its
shape as Chaukor as the danda was not of usual round shape and
was of unusual shape and that it was of triangular shape. The
medical/forensic evidence has supported the evidence of eye-
witness. IO had recorded the disclosure statement of the accused
in which he admitted his guilt and the IO has proved that he had
recorded the statement/complaint Ex. PW1/A of the complainant State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 14 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 29. I have heard the rival contentions and perused the
records. 30. The prosecution has examined six witnesses to prove
its case including complainant. 31. The charge against the accused persons is u/s 304 IPC. Culpable homicide is explained in Section 299 IPC. Section 299 IPC Culpable Homicide: 32. Whoever causes death by doing an act with the
intention of causing death, or with the intention of causing such
bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge
that he is likely by such act to cause death, commits the offence
of culpable homicide. 33. PW1 Manish, who is the son of deceased Sant Lal, is
the only eye witness of the incident. PW1 proved his complaint
dated 09.04.2020, Ex.PW1/A wherein he made the allegations
against accused Nanhe Lal that 4-5 days prior to the incident on
08.04.2020, accused was harassing him and on that day when he
was returning his home with Bhandara food, accused met and
abused him and told him to bring money from his father. He
narrated the incident to his father, who along with him went to
make accused understand and in front of Shahid Kabadi Shop,
the accused abused both of them, scuffled with them and took out
one wooden danda and hit it on the head of his father, who died State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 15 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 46. Falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus. - This maxim (false
in one thing, false in everything) is neither a sound rule of law
nor a rule of practice. Evidence partly false. Whole evidence
should not be discarded - 1963 CrLJ 550. The maxim falsus in
uno, falsus in omnibus not to be mechanically applied and it is
not applicable in India. That the evidence of some witness found
unsafe for conviction is no ground for rejection of whole
evidence. If the credit of the witness is not completely shaken,
that part of the evidence which is creditworthy can be accepted
and entire testimony of victim cannot be seen with suspicion and
the accusations which have been consistently made against
accused and corroborated by other PWs and remained unrebutted,
can be read against accused. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in 'Nivrutti
Pandurang Kokate Vs. State of Maharashtra ', (2008) 12 SCC
565, while dealing with a child witness, has held as follows: 47. In Leela Ram Vs. State of Haryana , AIR 1999 SC
3717, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that there is bound to be some
discrepancies between the narration of different witnesses when they speak
on details and unless the contradictions are of a material dimension, the
same should not be used to jettison the evidence in its entirety. Incidentally,
corroboration of evidence with mathematical niceties cannot be expected in
criminal cases. 48. In Rajendra @ Rajappa & Ors. Vs. State of
Karnataka, LL 2021 SC 189, Hon'ble Supreme Court upheld the
conviction of the accused u/s 302 / 149 IPC and discarded the
minor contradictions on the basis of which trial court had
acquitted the accused, but convicted by the High Court. In Narayan Chetanram Chaudhary & Anr Vs. State of Maharashtra ,
(2000) 8 SCC 457, Hon'ble Supreme Court had considered the
minor contradictions in the testimony while appreciating the
evidence in criminal trial and held that only contradictions in
material particulars and not minor contradictions can be a ground
to discredit the testimony of the witnesses. Relevant portion of
para 42 of the judgment reads as under:- 49. PW4 HC Govind deposed that IO prepared the site
plan after he handed over the FIR to him at the spot and
complainant pointed towards accused near Nepali Mandir, DDA
Park, Vishwas Nagar and he was apprehended and arrested vide
arrest memo, Ex.PW1/F.
 RECOVERY OF DANDA USED IN CRIME 50. Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act
 "27. How much of information received from accused
may be proved. Provided that when any fact is deposed to as discovered in
consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence,
in the custody of a police officer, so much of such information, whether it
amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby
discovered, may be proved." 51. PW4 HC Govind deposed that accused Nanhe Lal
disclosed his involvement in the crime vide disclosure statement, State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 23 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 52. In Appabhai Another Vs. State of Gujarat , AIR 1988
SC 696, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that mere non-joining of
independent public witness, where the evidence of prosecution
witnesses may be found to be cogent, convincing, credit-worthy
and reliable, can't cast a doubt on the version forwarded by the
prosecution, if there seems to be no reason on record to falsely
implicate the accused and thus it is no ground to throw the
prosecution case. KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 53. PW5 also proved the arrest of accused Nanhe Lal the
identification of PW1 Manish vide arrest memo, Ex.PW1/F and
that he prepared the site plan, Ex.PW5/B and prepared the rukka,
Ex.PW5/A and that dead body of deceased was identified by his
sons Manish and Sumit vide identification statements, Ex.PW1/E
and Ex.PW2/B. PW5 also proved that accused made a disclosure
statement, Ex.PW1/H and that he had thrown the wooden danda
in the park adjoining the Kuda-Khatta near Park, D Block, NSA
Colony, Delhi and he could get the same recovered and then
took the police to the abovesaid park and got one wooden danda
in chaukor shape (square shape) with nails measuring 4.5 ft. from
the said park, which was wrapped by PW5 in white color cloth
and sealed it with seal of NK and seized vide seizure memo,
Ex.PW1/I and PW5 has correctly identified the said danda, Ex.P1
and also the accused and on 03.07.2020, he sent the medical
documents including PM report along with sealed pullanda to
Sabzi Mandi Mortuary regarding the opinion on possibility of
death by the said danda. In the cross-examination of PW5, he reiterated that he
prepared the site plan at the spot at 7 PM and no public person
was made a witness of arrest and recovery of danda and no site
plan was prepared regarding recovery as no public person was
available at that time when recovery was effected and he had
clarified that he had mentioned the shape of wooden danda as of
chaukor shape in seizure memo, Ex.PW1/I as danda was not of State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 25 of 31 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 54. The Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act is an exception
to section 25 & 26 of Indian Evidence Act and in this case,
accused Nanhe Lal got recovered the danda used in the crime and
he disclosed the same in his disclosure, Ex.PW1/H, proved from
the testimonies of PW1, PW4 and PW5 and they have also
correctly identified the danda, Ex.P1. Also, PW2 has correctly
identified the said danda, Ex.P1. Thus, the testimony of PW1, State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 26 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 55. In Amit Singh Vs. State , (2007) 2 SCC 310, Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that "Facts" discovered also includes mental fact
such as the place from which the object is produced and knowledge of the
accused of the same. 56. In Anter Singh Vs. State , (2004) 10 SCC 657, Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that it is the settled legal position that the
expression "fact discovered" includes not only the physical object produced,
but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the
accused as to this. 57. The recovery of danda is relevant to issue and accused
Nanhe Lal had exclusive knowledge of the same that it was
placed/hidden in the said place of recovery by him and he got the
same recovered after his disclosure being recorded by the IO and
prior to that it was not known to the police or anyone else as to
where was danda used in the crime was lying. Thus, PW5 has not only proved the recovery of danda
used in the crime, but also corroborated the version of PW1,
PW2 and PW4 and the evidence of PW3 that danda was of 2 ft.
has no relevance as she was the won over by the accused, who
has given a manipulated statement to favour the accused without
any basis and is not a reliable witness and has not given any
statement previously that danda was of 2 ft. KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 58. PW6 Dr. Kamlesh Kumar deposed that he conducted
the postmortem of deceased Sant Lal and found 2 contused
abrasions measuring 2.5x.05 and 4x.05 cm over vertex above
occipital protuberance and left side of the scalp above eyebrow
respectively. On internal examination, he found effusion of blood
in the layers of scalp over left parieto temporal region and
subdural hemorrhage was present over the left parieto temporal
lobe of cerebral hemisphere. Cause of death is opined to be due to cerebral damage
consequent upon blunt force trauma to head, which was sufficient
to cause death in ordinary course of nature". Thus, forensic/medical evidence also corroborates the
version of PW1 that injury was caused on the head of deceased
by the wooden danda by accused Nanhe Lal, which caused his
death and PW6 had correctly the said danda sent to him by IO for
opinion, Ex.P1. Though in his cross-examination, PW6 admitted
that such injury could also be caused by iron rod or bamboo, but
explained that it depends on weight, size and force of weapon
used and reiterated that he had given subsequent opinion after State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 28 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 59. Accused Nanhe Lal stated in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C./351 BNSS that all witnesses are interested witness and he
was falsely implicated by the police officials in the present case
without any fault on his part and he was innocent and few days
prior to the alleged incident, there was a quarrel between his
daughter and the children of deceased and the family of deceased
had threatened to implicate him in a false case and incident with
the deceased would have occurred with someone else and to take
revenge from him, family members of complainant had falsely
implicated him by taking his name as the person, who caused
him injury though he never caused any injury to the deceased
with any wooden danda. The defence taken by accused is not
tenable as he had not given suggestions regarding this defence to
PW1 or PW2 and it appears to be an afterthought and no defence
witness has been examined by the accused to create doubt in the
case of prosecution or the version of PWs. 60. Nothing has come in the cross-examination of PW1,
PW2, PW4, PW5 and PW6 to doubt their veracity and despite
PW2 and PW3 being partially hostile, they corroborated the
version of PW1, whose version is also corroborated by the PW6
and recovery of danda. MLC of deceased Sant Lal, Ex.P2
wherein he was declared brought dead after physical assault has State Vs. Nanhe Lal FIR No. 149/2020 PS Farsh Bazar Page 29 of 31 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT Date: RAJAT 2025.01.08
 13:02:11
 +0530
 been admitted by the accused. Accused has also admitted the DD
No. 27A dated 08.04.2020 of PS Farsh Bazar, Ex.P1B wherein it
is mentioned that Sant Lal was injured near a quarrel outside his
house and he was admitted to hospital where he was declared
brought dead, which shows that death of the accused was a result
of assault by the accused and not a natural death. Accused has
taken different defence at different stages of trial, which are not
consistent and appears to be an afterthought. 61. It is apparent from the evidence led by the prosecution
that the accused had no intention to cause the death of deceased,
as the deceased and his son had gone to talk to him and accused
was not carrying weapon and he took out a wooden danda and hit
it on the head of deceased, which caused his death, but this act
was done with the knowledge that it was likely to cause death or
to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause his death as it
was hit on the head, which is a vital part of the body with full
force and as per forensic report due to the aforesaid injury on the
head, the death of the deceased was caused and the knowledge of
the accused can be attributed from these facts proved by the
prosecution during trial and even a single blow is sufficient to
cause death, if hit with weapon with force on the vital part of
body including head. Even a common man has knowledge that if
injury is caused by heavy wooden danda with full force on head,
it may be likely to cause death of a person. Thus, the prosecution
has proved the charge u/s 304 (II) IPC against the accused Nanhe
Lal beyond reasonable doubt. KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 62. In view of the discussion above, the evidence led by
prosecution is cogent, trustworthy, consistent, corroborative and
inspires confidence. In the totality of the circumstances brought
on record by way of evidence, this court is of the considered
view that the prosecution has proved its case against accused
Nanhe Lal beyond reasonable doubt for hitting the deceased Sant
Lal with wooden danda on his head leading to his death, which
was got recovered by him. 63. Consequently, the accused Nanhe Lal is convicted of
the offence punishable u/s 304 (II) IPC. Bail bonds cancelled. Surety stands discharged.
 Accused shall be heard separately on sentence. Digitally

PRONOUNCED IN OPEN COURT
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
ON THIS 8th DAY OF JANUARY, 2025. RAJAT Date: