The Free Software Hardware Movement of Puducherry (FSHMP) has called for the adoption of Free Open Source Software (FOSS) and Open Standards by all government and public institutions, in a list of demands for political parties ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The FSHMP is a collective of tech professionals from Puducherry volunteering to promote “FOSS, open hardware, digital commons, free culture and knowledge freedom” and works in affiliation with the Free Software Foundation Tamil Nadu.

Election demands from @fshmpy 1. Adoption of #FOSS & Open Standards. 2. Pre-Install #GNU /Linux in Govt. sponsored laptops. 3. Protect citizens frm online fraud, #DataBreach & predatory loan apps. 4. Ban political parties from collecting voters personal data & more. #Elections2024 pic.twitter.com/1JsanCvoOx

— Free Software Foundation Tamil Nadu (FSFTN) (@FSFTamilnadu) April 14, 2024

The organisation has currently handed over these demands to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Dravida Munnetra Khazhagam (DMK), Communist Party of India, and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi. It intends to submit these demands to other parties as well.

What is FOSS?

FOSS refers to software that is open source , which means that the original source code is accessible without restrictions to the public enabling them to inspect, modify and enhance the code. FOSS is essentially a “community-driven” development process that fosters transparency, sharing of knowledge, and the ability to customise software as per individual or organizational needs.

What is the FSHMP demanding?

Here’s a list of the key demands made by the FSHMP:

Government’s framework on the adoption of open-source software:

In April 2015, the Department of Electronics and Information Technology had published a framework on open-source software adoption in e-governance systems, which was initially designed in September 2013. As reported earlier, the framework outlined various factors such as cost-effectiveness, enhanced competition, minimized piracy, wider choices, freedom to use and reuse, and technological compatibility as reasons for the government to adopt open-source software to fulfil its software requirements. The objectives of the framework were to provide guidance to government departments and agencies in identifying OSS solutions and provide institutional support and resources for promoting OSS in governance.

In November last year, Union Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar reportedly stated in a media interview that India’s repository of Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI), including Aadhaar, UPI, and DigiLocker among others will all be open source for other countries to develop similar models for governance. The MoS had made similar claims at the Digital Bharat Summit organized by business publication Financial Express. However, not every tech-oriented solution developed for governance can be classified as a Digital Public Good (DPG) or Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI), which is essentially open-sourced.

It is important to note that there is a difference between DPG and DPI as well. International institutions like the World Economic Forum refer to Digital Public Infrastructure as “societal-scale digital systems with functions essential for public and private service delivery, including payment systems and data exchanges”. On the other hand , Digital Public Goods “are open-source software, open data, AI models, standards, and content that make DPI an operational reality”. Read MediaNama’s detailed explainer on DPGs and DPIs here .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event