What’s the news: The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) is investigating several chartered accountants (CAs) for their role in helping predatory Chinese loan apps function, Economic Times reported on August 18. Separately, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) is in consultation with Google Play to find a way to curb malpractices by loan apps, Business Standard reported on August 18.

Why does this matter: Given the rising number of complaints concerning unauthorised digital lending apps that are targeting vulnerable Indian borrowers, charging them exorbitant interest rates, and resorting to extortion and blackmail tactics to collect payments, these two developments are a much welcome step to tackle the issue because, in more than a few cases , these unethical practices have resulted in borrowers committing suicide.

RBI’s new regulatory framework: Generally, third-party loan marketplaces and apps which work with regulated banks and non-bank lenders have to follow strict guidelines on interest rates and collection practices, but many of the predatory lending apps that have emerged in the last year either work with small non-bank lenders or they work outside any rules or regulatory framework. To tackle this, RBI on August 10 released a new regulatory framework to govern digital lending, but the framework doesn’t address all concerns because it only applies to entities regulated by the RBI. This means those outside the ambit need to be tackled by other means such as working with the Google Play Store or restricting CAs from providing their services to these apps.

Why is ICAI investigating CAs: According to Economic Times, some CAs are alleged to have signed various documents of these loan app companies without conducting proper due diligence. “For instance, some of these loan app entities provided fake addresses in the incorporation documents that the CAs did not physically verify,” the report explained.

“The purview of investigation is to ascertain if there was any professional misconduct on the part of the chartered accountants. Further, the probe will also look into whether these professionals have signed or authored any false documents supplied by such shell companies.” —  Debashis Mitra, president, ICAI, told ET

What can we expect from Play Store following its consultations with MeitY: According to Business Standard, Play Store may start restricting loan apps from accessing certain user data and may institute stricter requirements for loan apps that want to be listed on the store. Last year, the RBI found over 600 unregistered lending apps available on the Play Store, the report states.

“Law enforcement agencies and other authorities concerned should approach Google Play Store to take down unregistered lending apps. […] Such apps can only be taken down case by case,” — MeitY official to Business Standard

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event