Highlighting that generative artificial intelligence tools such as ChatGPT, GPT-4, Bard etc. may become a “key criminal business model of the future”, a new Europol report states that these models will make it easier for “malicious actors to perpetrate criminal activities with no necessary prior knowledge”.

The report ‘ChatGPT: The Impact of Large Language Models on Law Enforcement’ was published by Europol, which works with the European Union states to combat crime, on March 27, 2023. It explores how Large Language Models (LLMs)—which can perform l anguage-processing tasks —like OpenAI’s ChatGPT and their information-curation capabilities can be exploited for “nefarious purposes” such as phishing, child harassment, financial crimes, deception and others.

The report focuses on the results of the workshops organised by the Europol Innovation Lab with domain experts to analyse how LLMs can be abused and what can law enforcement agencies do to tackle them. The experts chose ChatGPT, given its common usage and the high traction it has received in the past few months, to explore its pros as well as its “negative potential”. Here, we look at some of the major criminal use cases of generative AI tools that the report outlines.

Why it matters:

From cybercrimes to misinformation and propaganda posing dangers to the vulnerable sections of the population, a number of anticipated negative impacts of generative AI tools have ignited discussions about “AI ethics” and the ways in which companies can develop “responsible AI” tech. Both, the pros and cons have encouraged the hype around ChatGPT and the like. While there’s a call for AI policy groups to halt the release of new AI products , statements by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) cautioning businesses about their AI claims and this report by Europol certainly shift the attention towards the potential harms of generative AI models.

A. Fraud, impersonation and social engineering:

B. Cybercrime

What is ‘prompt engineering’?

Prompt engineering is one of the ways of jailbreaking ChatGPT , which essentially means “a way of getting a piece of hardware/software to do something it is capable of doing but has been programmed not to by its developers”. The safeguards put in place by coders and developers to prevent user harm can be bypassed by certain methods.

Through prompt engineering, the report notes, users “refine” or revise the ways of asking a question to “influence the output” generated by the AI system. These include practices like asking ChatGPT to give a prompt by providing an answer, changing the writing style, narrative for an answer generated by the tool, asking for an answer in code, etc.

It further adds that though the technique can maximise the use of AI tools and add “versatility” to the quality of the model, it can also be “abused in order to bypass content moderation limitations to produce potentially harmful content” and calls for ethical and legal obligations to be put in place to prevent any harm.

Being conscious of the potential impact

To begin with, the Europol report states that it is necessary to raise awareness about the malicious use of LLMs and their impact in real life. Primarily, it states that the law enforcement agencies need to be prepared to identify the “potentially affected crime areas” to be able to “predict, prevent, and investigate different types of criminal abuse” perpetrated using LLMs. This also requires that the law enforcement personnels are trained in using these models.

“This will imply that officers need to be able to assess the content produced by generative AI models in terms of accuracy and potential biases,” the report states. Additionally, they may also explore the possibilities of “customised LLMs trained on their own, specialised data” for specific use cases without affecting “fundamental rights”.

However, the report underlines that this type of usage requires “appropriate processes and safeguards” to protect individual privacy, confidential information and to investigate and address potential biases before using the models.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event