GIRISH KATHPALIA, J. 1. Petitioners seek to invoke inherent powers of this court under Section
 482 CrPC for quashing FIR No.92/2024 of PS Jamia Nagar for offences
 under Section 376 / 377 / 323 / 313 / 506 / 509 / 34 IPC and the proceedings arising
 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 1 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:46:19 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 therefrom. Originally, this petition was filed by only petitioner no.1, but
 subsequently the remaining petitioners also joined him, as they also got
 named in the Chargesheet. Quashing of the said FIR and the proceedings
 arising therefrom is sought solely on the ground, alleging that the petitioners
 have compromised the disputes with the prosecutrix (respondent no.2
 herein), who supports the petition. The State (respondent no.1 herein)
 strongly opposes this petition. I heard learned counsel for the petitioners,
 supported by the counsel for respondent no.2 and learned Additional
 Standing Counsel for State. 2. Briefly stated, in her complaint, lodged with the local police, the
 prosecutrix alleged that she was repeatedly raped under force and threats,
 beaten up and forced to participate in unnatural sex and forced to carry out
 abortion under the threat of circulating her nude photographs and videos on
 social media. The allegations, as elaborated in the said complaint are as
 follows. 2.1 The prosecutrix got married with one 'X' on 17.04.2011 and was
 blessed with two children. When she came to her parental home for
 temporary stay, her neighbour Shafeeq (petitioner no.1 herein) started
 following her. Shafeeq would start crying and would say that he would die
 without her, as he was in love with her. Gradually, she developed sympathy
 for him. the pretext of introducing her with his family members. Once she reached
 there, Shafeeq established physical relations with her against her consent
 and also clicked her nude photographs and videos. Shafeeq claimed his right
 over her and threatened her to get married with him. 2.3 Thereafter, Shafeeq repeatedly took her to some hotel in Sukhdev
 Vihar and indulged in unnatural sex with her against her consent. 2.4 After some time, when she along with her family visited Kashmir,
 Shafeeq along with his niece Alina also reached there and again established
 physical relations with her, due to which she became pregnant. When she
 disclosed Shafeeq about her pregnancy, he took her to Gosia Medical Centre
 and got the pregnancy aborted. 2.5 Shafeeq told her to flee from her matrimonial home after taking away
 whatever cash amount was possible. So, she reached the said hotel in
 Sukhdev Vihar, where Shafeeq took from her an amount of Rs.1,10,000/- on
 the pretext of getting married with her. But after establishing relations with
 her in the hotel, he left her there and did not return for two days despite her
 repeated phone calls. After two days, Shafeeq came to the hotel and
 abandoned her on road after blocking her phone number. Later, Shafeeq

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 3 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:45:13 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 returned the said amount of Rs.1,10,000/- to her brother Firoz and told him
 to ask her not to meet him. 2.6 After few days, Shafeeq again contacted her and asked her to get
 married with him, otherwise, he would circulate her photographs and videos
 on social media. When she requested him not to do so, he insisted her to take
 divorce from her husband. Under such pressure of Shafeeq, she took divorce
 from her husband on 10.02.2024. 2.7 Thereafter, Shafeeq introduced her with his brother-in-law Shamim
 (respondent no.2 herein), who enquired from her about the entire issue and
 then sent Shafeeq out of the room to fetch water. Once Shafeeq left the
 room, Shamim molested her by pressing her breast and kissed her. When she
 disclosed such conduct of Shamim to Shafeeq, the latter beat her up and
 stated that now he would not get married with her. Shafeeq forced her to
 leave after abusing her and threatening to circulate her photos and videos if
 she disclosed the issue to anyone. Shafeeq also snatched her mobile phone
 and after deleting the entire data during the period from 10.02.2024 to
 21.02.2024, threw away the same on rooftop. 2.8 Since Shafeeq is a notorious criminal and now refusing to get married
 with her; and the remaining petitioners also abused her in filthy language
 and threatened to kill her, she lodged the complaint. 3. Upon lodging of the abovesaid complaint, the prosecutrix was taken
 through counselling by an NGO and the complaint was registered as the FIR
 now sought to be quashed. During investigation, statement of prosecutrix
 was recorded under Section 164 CrPC, in which she reiterated on oath
 before Magistrate the above mentioned allegations and also added that
 Shafeeq forcibly sodomized her, causing excessive bleeding and pain; and
 that out of fear, she had to stop going out of home. 4. It appears from contents of the present petition that the learned
 Additional Sessions Judge granted anticipatory bail to Shafeeq on the
 ground that prosecutrix, being a matured and married lady could not have
 been induced into physical relations on false promise of marriage, and that
 the photographs reflect that they had consensual relationship. In the present
 proceedings, this court would not test the said view of learned Additional
 Sessions Judge. But suffice it to say that this is not a case of "inducement"
 through false promise of marriage; this is a case, where a married lady was
 cajoled by petitioner no.1 into believing that he had fallen in love with her
 and thereafter he not just raped her, but also clicked her nude pictures and
 videos, as alleged by her, followed by abortion and repeated sexual acts,
 including forced sodomy after blackmailing her. 5. During arguments, learned counsel for petitioners took me through the

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 5 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:44:14 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 above record and contended that this is a fit case to quash the FIR and the
 proceedings arising out of the same because the prosecutrix respondent no.2
 has now got married with petitioner no.1 and she supports the present
 petition. Learned counsel for petitioners also argued that since admittedly
 the prosecutrix respondent no.2 was a married lady when she came in
 contact with petitioner no.1, there was no scope for petitioner no.1 to make
 any false promise of marriage. It was contended on behalf of petitioners that
 there is no possibility of conviction, since the prosecutrix respondent no.2
 would not support prosecution during trial. Citing the judgments in the cases
 titled Sanjay Babu Rinku vs State , 2024 SCC OnLine Del 3504; Kapil
 Gupta vs State of NCT of Delhi , (2022) 15 SCC 44; Mohit vs State , 2024
 SCC OnLine Del 1222; Lalit Kumar Vats vs State of NCT of Delhi , 2020
 SCC OnLine Del 1956; Sandeep Kumar Pandey vs GNCTD Delhi,
 CRL.M.C. 2001/2021; Gaurav vs State, CRL.M.C. 2212/2021; and B.S.
 Joshi vs State of Haryana , (2003) 4 SCC 675, learned counsel for
 petitioners strongly argued that this court is not powerless to quash a
 complaint of even non-compoundable offences. 6. As mentioned above, learned counsel for prosecutrix respondent no.2
 supported the petition, contending that for permanent quietus, it would be
 necessary to quash the FIR and the consequent proceedings in this case. 7. On the other hand, learned prosecutor strongly opposed the petition,

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 6 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:43:48 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 contending that prosecutrix respondent no.2 has consented to the petition
 under pressure. It was argued on behalf of the State that such heinous
 offences, if allowed to be forgiven, would leave a very bad precedent and
 encourage the potential wrong doers. 8. To begin with, learned counsel for petitioners is not wrong in
 contending that powers under Section 482 CrPC can be validly invoked to
 quash complaints disclosing non-compoundable offences. For, there is no
 explicit prohibition in the Code or elsewhere in law against such exercise.
 The High Court certainly can exercise inherent powers and quash non-
 compoundable cases if it is to prevent abuse of process or otherwise to
 secure the ends of justice. But that is not at all the issue involved or raised in
 this case. The issue in this case is as to whether this is a fit case to quash
 proceedings. 9. To recapitulate, the provision under Section 482 CrPC stipulates: This provision has not given to the criminal courts any new power, which
 power earlier did not exist; this provision only clarifies that codification of
 procedure has not led to cessation of the already existing power - the
 inherent power. What is contemplated by Section 482 CrPC is that powers
 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 7 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:43:18 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 that are inherent in a High Court cannot be limited or affected by anything
 stipulated in the Code, where the High Court finds it necessary to exercise
 those inherent powers in order to give effect to any order under the Code, or
 to prevent abuse of process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of
 justice. No doubt, under Section 482 of the Code, the High Court has
 inherent powers to make such orders as may be necessary to give effect to
 any order under the Code or to prevent the abuse of process of any court or
 otherwise to secure the ends of justice. But the expressions "abuse of the
 process of law" or "to secure the ends of justice" do not confer unbridled
 jurisdiction on the High Court. The alleged abuse of the process of law or
 the ends of justice could only be secured in accordance with law, including
 procedural law and not otherwise. Further, inherent powers are in the nature
 of extraordinary powers to be used sparingly for achieving the object
 mentioned in Section 482 of the Code in cases where there is no express
 provision empowering the High Court to achieve the said object. 9.1 It is neither possible nor desirable to lay down any straitjacket rule
 which would govern the exercise of inherent jurisdiction. No procedural
 enactment can provide for all cases that may possibly arise. So, apart from
 express provisions of law, courts have inherent powers which are necessary
 for proper discharge of functions and duties imposed upon them by law.
 That is the doctrine which finds expression in Section 482 CrPC by merely
 recognizing and preserving inherent powers of the High Courts. All courts,

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 8 of 19 pages
 GIRISH Digitally signed by GIRISH
 KATHPALIA
 KATHPALIA Date: 2025.04.29 14:42:52 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 whether civil or criminal except the Magisterial Courts and the Courts of
 Sessions, possess in the absence of any express provision, as inherent in
 their constitution, all such powers as are necessary to do the right and to
 undo a wrong in the course of administration of justice on the principle
 quando lex aliquid alicui concedit, concedere videtur et id sine quo res ipsa
 esse non potest (when the law gives a person anything, it gives him that
 without which it cannot exist). While exercising powers under this
 provision, the High Court does not function as a court of appeal or
 revision. Inherent jurisdiction, though very wide, has to be exercised
 sparingly, carefully and with caution and only when such exercise is
 justified by the tests specifically laid down in the section itself. It has to be
 exercised only ex debito justitiae to do real and substantial justice, for
 administration whereof alone the courts exist. Authority of the court exists
 for advancement of justice and if any attempt is made to abuse that authority
 so as to cause injustice, the court has power to prevent abuse. It would be an
 abuse of process of the court to allow any action which would result in
 injustice and prevent promotion of justice. 9.2 In the case of Gian Singh vs State of Punjab , (2012)10 SCC 303, the
 Supreme Court traversed through plethora of judicial pronouncements on the
 scope of Section 482 CrPC and held thus: While exercising the power the High Court is to form an opinion on
 either of the aforesaid two objectives. (III) Such a power is not be exercised in those prosecutions which
 involve heinous and serious offences of mental depravity or offences
 like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not private in nature

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 11 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:41:42 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 and have a serious impact on society. Similarly, for offences alleged to
 have been committed under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by Public Servants while
 working in that capacity are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the offender. (IV) On the other, those criminal cases having overwhelmingly and pre-
 dominantly civil character, particularly those arising out of commercial
 transactions or arising out of matrimonial relationship or family disputes
 should be quashed when the parties have resolved their entire disputes
 among themselves. (V) While exercising its powers, the High Court is to examine as to
 whether the possibility of conviction is remote and bleak and
 continuation of criminal cases would put the accused to great oppression
 and prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to him by not
 quashing the criminal cases. (VI) Offences under Section 307 IPC would fall in the category of
 heinous and serious offences and therefore is to be generally treated as
 crime against the society and not against the individual alone. However,
 the High Court would not rest its decision merely because there is a
 mention of Section 307 IPC in the FIR or the charge is framed under this
 provision. It would be open to the High Court to examine as to whether
 incorporation of Section 307 IPC is there for the sake of it or the
 prosecution has collected sufficient evidence, which if proved, would lead
 to proving the charge under Section 307 IPC. For this purpose, it would
 be open to the High Court to go by the nature of injury sustained,
 whether such injury is inflicted on the vital/delegate parts of the body,
 nature of weapons used etc. Medical report in respect of injuries suffered
 by the victim can generally be the guiding factor. On the basis of this
 prima facie analysis, the High Court can examine as to whether there is
 a strong possibility of conviction or the chances of conviction are remote
 and bleak. In the former case it can refuse to accept the settlement and
 quash the criminal proceedings whereas in the later case it would be
 permissible for the High Court to accept the plea compounding the

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 12 of 19 pages

 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:41:23 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 offence based on complete settlement between the parties. At this stage,
 the Court can also be swayed by the fact that the settlement between the
 parties is going to result in harmony between them which may improve
 their future relationship. (VII) While deciding whether to exercise its power under Section 482 of
 the Code or not, timings of settlement play a crucial role. Those cases
 where the settlement is arrived at immediately after the alleged
 commission of offence and the matter is still under investigation, the
 High Court may be liberal in accepting the settlement to quash the
 criminal proceedings/investigation. It is because of the reason that at
 this stage the investigation is still on and even the charge sheet has not
 been filed. Likewise, those cases where the charge is framed but the
 evidence is yet to start or the evidence is still at infancy stage, the High
 Court can show benevolence in exercising its powers favourably, but
 after prima facie assessment of the circumstances/material mentioned
 above. On the other hand, where the prosecution evidence is almost
 complete or after the conclusion of the evidence the matter is at the stage
 of argument, normally the High Court should refrain from exercising its
 power under Section 482 of the Code, as in such cases the trial court
 would be in a position to decide the case finally on merits and to come a
 conclusion as to whether the offence under Section 307 IPC is committed
 or not. Similarly, in those cases where the conviction is already recorded
 by the trial court and the matter is at the appellate stage before the High
 Court, mere compromise between the parties would not be a ground to
 accept the same resulting in acquittal of the offender who has already
 been convicted by the trial court. Here charge is proved under Section
 307 IPC and conviction is already recorded of a heinous crime and,
 therefore, there is no question of sparing a convict found guilty of such a
 crime." (emphasis supplied)

 9.4 So far as the judicial precedents cited on behalf of petitioners are
 concerned, the same stand on totally distinguishable factual matrix. However, even in those precedents the undisputed legal position reiterated
 was that each case coming for quashing of proceedings must be examined as
 standalone case on the basis of its factual matrix and in cases involving
 heinous offences like rape and sodomy etc. the High Court should be slow in
 quashing the proceedings. 10. In the present case, quashing of criminal proceedings is sought by
 petitioners, claiming that continuance of trial proceedings is abuse of
 process and quashing of the proceedings is called for in order to secure the
 ends of justice. Claim of the present petitioners is that since petitioner no.1
 (against whom the prosecutrix has alleged rape, sodomy, abortion and
 blackmail) has now got married with the prosecutrix, quashing the FIR and
 the proceedings arising therefrom would secure ends of justice. 11. It is nobody's case that the complaint lodged by the prosecutrix
 contains false allegations. If that is so, why should the prosecutrix be
 allowed to get away with lodging false complaint that led to initiation of
 criminal justice machinery. Every false complaint contributes to not just
 unnecessary load on the overflowing dockets, but also to the artifacts of
 crime, generating an impression in the society about falsity even of genuine
 complaints, thereby causing grave injustice to actual rape victims. Quashing
 the criminal proceedings in such situations would be tantamount to the High
 Court giving seal of approval to such abuse of process of criminal justice

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 14 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:40:45 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 machinery by the complainant. 12. On the other hand, if the complaint lodged by the prosecutrix
 contained truth, would it be justified to push her into the matrimonial fold of
 her tormentor, thereby granting premium to the rapist. Should it not be the
 bounden duty of the State to ensure food, clothing and shelter to such victim,
 so that she does not helplessly surrender into the matrimony offered by her
 rapist in order to escape clutches of law. 13. The court, exercising inherent powers on such issues must strike
 delicate balance between abovementioned rival possibilities. And for that, it
 is necessary to take the complaint through full dress trial. 14. Present is not an ordinary case of a love affair having gone awry. It is
 also not a case, where the accused induced the victim into sexual relations
 through misrepresentation of false promise to marry. 15. Present is a case where the prosecutrix alleges that petitioner no.1
 initially made her believe that he would die if she did not reciprocate his
 love for her; that thereafter petitioner no.1 established sexual relations with
 her against her consent; that not just this, petitioner no.1 also clicked her
 nude pictures and videos; that petitioner no.1 repeatedly raped her and
 blackmailed her into obtaining divorce from her husband, with whom she

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 15 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:40:28 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 had two children; that after she obtained divorce, even petitioner no.2
 molested her and when she brought this to the notice of petitioner no.1, he
 beat her up and abandoned her after threatening to circulate her pictures and
 videos, if she disclosed all that to anyone; that petitioner no.1 got her
 pregnancy aborted; that petitioner no.1 not just repeatedly beat her up, he
 even sodomised her against her consent, causing immense pain and injury. 16. In the above backdrop, there are three possibilities: either those
 allegations are false; or those allegations levelled by present respondent no.2
 are truthful and now under fear of being maligned by circulation of her nude
 pictures and videos, prosecutrix has married petitioner no.1 and agreed to
 support this petition; or her allegations are truthful, but now she has
 genuinely forgiven petitioner no.1. If the allegations are false, strict action
 must be taken against prosecutrix respondent no.2. If the allegations are
 truthful, it would have to be ascertained as to whether prosecutrix
 respondent no.2 has voluntarily forgiven the petitioners or has done so under
 fear of being maligned and if so, consequences of the heinous offences
 committed by petitioners no.1 and 2 must follow. The court cannot arrive at
 truth on these aspects without testing the said allegations through full dress
 trial. 17. Further, as quoted from a judicial precedent flowing from the
 Supreme Court, the timings of the alleged settlement play a vital role and

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 16 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:40:11 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 those cases where the settlement was arrived at immediately after the alleged
 offence, the High Court may be liberal in accepting the settlement. The idea
 underlying is that early settlement lends credence to the genuineness of
 remorse and repentance. In the present case, Chargesheet was filed by the
 investigators on 18.05.2024 after detailed investigation. It is hardly 10 days
 prior to filing of the Chargesheet that petitioner no.1 got married with the
 prosecutrix respondent no.2. It appears that having realised that the
 Investigating Officer had completed investigation and was writing the
 Chargesheet to be filed that petitioner no.1 decided to get married with the
 prosecutrix respondent no.2. It would be significant to note that according to
 the Status Report filed by police, apart from elaborate investigation, the
 Investigation Officer also seized two mobile phones of petitioner no.1 and
 sent the same to FSL for forensic examination and involved the Cyber Cell,
 South East District to retrieve the Face Book social media posts, where
 petitioner no.1 admittedly uploaded the videos and then deleted the same.
 Apparently, a Supplementary Chargesheet upon completion of digital
 footprints investigation is planned by police. 18. I have also deliberated upon the argument of learned counsel for
 petitioners that during trial, the prosecutrix would turn hostile to prosecution
 case in the witness box, leading to acquittal. In view of peculiar factual
 matrix of this case, described above and the multiple offences alleged, for
 which the investigators are also carrying on cyber investigation, one would

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 17 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:39:53 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 not guess the trial outcome so simplistically. And, even if assumed that in
 the witness box the prosecutrix respondent no.2 would go hostile to
 prosecution case despite her statement on oath before the Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC, she would certainly be tested through cross examination
 by the prosecution and would face appropriate consequences in accordance
 with law for having lodged false complaint. 19. In view of the aforesaid, I am not satisfied that the impugned FIR
 and/or the consequent proceedings can presently be treated as abuse of
 process of the court in any manner or that quashing the same would secure
 the ends of justice. On the contrary, if the complaint lodged by the
 prosecutrix respondent no.2 which led to the registration of FIR and the
 consequent proceedings is not truthful, quashing the same would be
 tantamount to encouraging the abuse of process of criminal justice
 machinery. The trend gradually setting in across the society to lodge false
 complaints with impunity and thereafter retract, needs to be checked. On the
 other hand, if the complaint lodged by the prosecutrix respondent no.2,
 which led to registration of FIR and the consequent proceedings is truthful,
 instead of extending premium to a rapist and a molester by pushing the
 helpless rape victim into his matrimony, it would be the duty of the State to
 ensure her a dignified life by providing her food, shelter and clothing. 20. Therefore, I do not find it a fit case to quash the FIR No.92/2024 of

 W.P.(CRL) 2080/2024 Page 18 of 19 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.04.29 14:39:37 -07'00' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:29.04.2025 18:54:59 PS Jamia Nagar for offences under Section 376 / 377 / 323 / 313 / 506 / 509 / 34 IPC and the proceedings arising therefrom. The petition is dismissed.