1. Whether Press Reporters may be allowed to see		:	No
the Order for publication as per Rule 27 of the
CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982? 2.	Whether it should be released under Rule 27 of the	:	No
	CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for publication
	in any authoritative report or not? 3.	Whether Their Lordships wish to see the fair copy		:	Seen
	of the Order? 4.	Whether Order is to be circulated to the Departmental	:	Yes
	authorities? Aramex India Pvt. Ltd. Appellant

Vs.

Commissioner of Customs 
Airport, Mumbai
Respondent

Appearance: 3.10	He would take us through the Courier Imports and Exports Regulations, 1998 (herein after referred as Courier Regulations) more specifically to the obligations of appellant as per the Regulation 13 . 3.11	He would read the Customs Broker Regulation, 1984 and submit that in the Regulation 29(7) , there is a specific provision holding the Custom House Agents licence holder is responsible for the acts of omission and commission of their employees. In the 2nd Regulation of 2004 it is his submission that Regulation 19(8) and CHA Regulation 13 , Regulation No. 17 (a), it is provided that the CHA is responsible for the acts of his employees. 3.12	He would take us through the judgement of the Tribunal in the case of V.B. Bhatia & Co. (supra) more specifically the paragraphs 6 and 9 (d). It is also his submission that the Revenue has challenged the Tribunal's order before Hon'ble High Court of Bombay and the Hon'ble High Court had dismissed the same in limine as no question of law arises. It is his submission that the Bench came to a conclusion for the act of employees, the courier agent cannot be penalized. 3.13	It is his further submission that proportionality of punishment meted out in the form of revocation of licence for more than two years is to be kept in mind more so as the licence has been revoked for the act of personal gain of the employees. He would submit the ratio of decision of Hon'ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh in the case of COMMR. OF CUS. & C. EX., v. H.B. Cargo Services - 2011 (268) E.L.T. 448 (A.P.); and the Tribunal in the case of Ashiana Cargo Services (I & G)  2014 (302) ELT 161 (Del) will apply in this case. He would submit that the decision of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the case of Ashiana Cargo Services (I & G)(supra) was maintained by the Apex Court as reported at 2015 (320) ELT A175. It is his submission that since the licence has been revoked for more than two years, the same should be suffice, appeal be allowed and licence be restored. 4.1 	Learned Departmental Representative (AR) was also heard at length. He would submit that the allegations in the case are very serious. On specific information consignment of 55.15 Kg of Silver jewellery valued Rs.18,45,802/ was seized from HUB office of the Courier. During investigation, it was found that 19 similar consignments have been cleared of 1038 Kg valued Rs.4,34,25,057/-. During investigation it was found that two employee Sh. Hitesh Fofandi & Dagdu alias Ravi Kadam of Courier in connivance with Sh Hemant Badola of M/s Manisha Ente, and Sh Rahul Khamkar of M/s Sarthak Shpg Services, were main agent for such clearance along with involvement of Hong Kong staff of the Courier. Therefore action has been taken against the appellant courier company that too by following the principles of natural justice and only after SCN by the Commissioner, the Courier licence has been revoked under Reg.14 while imposing penalty under the Customs Act,1962 , for violation of Regulations. 4.2 He raised preliminary objection on the jurisdiction of this Tribunal to hear the appeal. He submitted that right to appeal is not natural right or inherent right unless such right is given specifically under Statute. According to him neither the Customs Act, 1962 , nor the Courier Regulations provide for any appellate remedy. He relied upon the following judgments to buttress his argument. 4.5 He submitted that in the appellants own case earlier they had filed representation before Chief Commissioner and thereafter it was challenged before Hon'ble High Court. According to him provision for representation is sufficient remedy. In this regard he referred to the decision in the case of 
DHL Express India Pvt Ltd Vs U01,2015-316-ELT-651(Kar). 4.6 He submitted that there is similar provisions under CHALR to make representation to Chief Commissioner which is considered sufficient by the Honble Bombay High Court and the Honble Calcutta High Court. He also relied upon a decision of larger bench in Intercontinental Cargo Service Vs CC, Delhi, 2012-279-ELT-524(Tri-LB) and the decision in Courier Association of India Vs U01,2015-317-ELT688-Bom. 4.7 He further submitted that the contrary view of Tribunal on jurisdiction	in matters of Courier Regulation,1998 in the matter of Bombino Express Pvt ltd Vs CC vide Order dated 23 March,2016 (Tri-Mumbai) was not binding and matter can be referred to Larger Bench as there are contrary decisions on the issue by placing reliance on Vodafone India Vs CCE, 2015-324ELT434-Bom, CCE Vs Mahindra & Mahindra,2015-315ELT161-SC and CCE Vs Kraps Chem Pvt Ltd,2015-319ELT622-SC. 4.8 Without prejudice he submitted that there was systemic failure/lax administration of Courier to contain fraud and there was involvement/complicity of its foreign counter part. The appellant Courier was delivering goods at HUB office instead of consignee address. There was violation of Reg.13(i) as the courier failed to verify antecedent, correctness of IEC or identity of importer which was found to be fictitious. The employee forged dummy B/E, destroyed same after removal of goods which were not declared before Customs. The Invoice for consignment was not found in System, but submitted later for verification. Work was done by the employees involved in the case during course of employment, as goods moved to their HUB office from where goods are delivered. It is not case that employee did something outside employment. Based on employer request Customs pass has given to employee of Courier, hence it is natural that they are vicariously liable for wrong doing during such employment. There is lack of supervision, and clearance of 20 consignments was in similar fashion. He submitted that the judgments relied upon on behalf of the appellant were not relevant and applicable in the facts of the case. He relied upon the following decisions to submit that no reliefs be granted to the appellant: 5. 	We have carefully considered the rival submissions oral as well as written. We have perused the records and the plethora of judgments relied upon by both the sides. 6. 	So far as issue of maintainability is concerned, it is squarely covered by our decision in the Bombino Express Pvt ltd Vs CC vide Order dated 23 March,2016, wherein appeal was held as maintainable against the Order-in-Original dated 12.12.2014 passed by the Respondent Commissioner revoking the registration as a Courier and all such contentions were considered in the light of relevant statutory provisions. It was observed that- 4.	On behalf of the Revenue, a written submission was tendered along with a compilation of judgments, to submit that that this Appeal was not maintainable in view of the provisions of the Courier Imports and Exports (clearance) Regulations 1998 and the following orders or judgments were relied upon- 5.	It is seen that in none of the above decisions relied upon by the Revenue, the question of maintainability was an issue in respect of any Appeal against an order passed by the Commissioner of Customs as an Adjudicating Authority, under Regulation 10 of Courier (Import & Export) Regulations, 1998, which were notified by the Central Board of Excise & Customs, in ' exercise of powers conferred under Section 157 of the Customs Act, 1962. In Express Handling Worldwide (supra) the -appeal was preferred against the order passed by the Chief Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai on a representation filed by the Appellant, and not against order passed under Regulation 10 , by the Commissioner of Customs as an Adjudicating Authority. In DHL Express India Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble Karnataka High Court refused to exercise its extraordinary and discretionary writ jurisdiction against suspension of courier licence. In Bombino Express Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble Delhi High Court dismissed their writ petition, without deciding any such issue of 'maintainability', as the same was neither raised, nor was under consideration of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court. In the matter of Transit Freight Forwarders (supra), the Hon'ble Kerala High Court was not inclined to exercise their extraordinary writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, and found it fit and proper to relegate the Petitioner therein to avail remedy suggested by the Counsel appearing for the Petitioner therein, as provided under Regulation 14(2) . Therefore, even the said order dated 10.04.2013 is not an authority on the issue of maintainability of the instant appeal. All the other judgments / orders of the Tribunal and of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court were in the context of Customs House Agents Licensing Regulation, in the context of Orders issued under Section 146 of the Customs Act, 1962. None of them involved the issue of maintainability of appeal against an order passed by the Commissioner of Customs as an Adjudicating Authority, under Regulation 10 of Courier Import & Export Regulations, 1998, notified by the Central Board of Excise & Customs, in exercise of powers conferred under Section	of the Customs Act, 1962 . We have perused Section 146 vis-`-vis Section 157 of the Act. Section 146 provides inter alia as under- 6. Section 146 specifically provides that the Board may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of "this section and, in particular, such regulations may provide for "the appeals", if any, against an order of suspension or revocation of a licence, and "the period within which such appeal may be filed". Section 146 permits specific provisions for appeals regarding Customs Broker, and therefore, such specific provisions of appeal override the general provisions of the appeal under Customs Act, 1962 . As against this, section 157 confers general power to make regulations, which are required to be made by the Board "consistent with this Act and the rules". No provision under Section 157 provides for any special power and procedure for the appeals or takes away the general statutory right of appeal, in the matter of an Authorized Courier. Hence, the above decisions on issue of maintainability passed in respect of Customs House Agents governed by section 146 , are totally inapplicable. We also find merit in the submission made on behalf of the Appellant that although the Customs (Provisional Duty Assessment) Regulation, 2011, notified by the Board in exercise of powers conferred by Section 157 of the Customs, 1962 like the Courier Regulation issued under the same provision i.e. Section 157 of the Act, do not contain any provisions for any statutory appeal, however, it is settled law that the orders passed under the said Regulation issued under Section 157 of the Customs Act, 1962 are appealable orders, under the Act as held by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court, in Indoworth (India) Ltd., 2010 (254) E.L.T. 62 (Bom.). We are convinced that the impugned Order is an appealable order in view of the clear language of Section 129A read with the definition of the words "Adjudicating Authority" as contained under Section 2(1) , which permits any person to file appeal before the Tribunal, if aggrieved by any decision or order passed by the Commissioner of Customs as an Adjudicating Authority. Since the impugned Order is passed by Commissioner of Customs as an adjudicating authority, under the provisions of Customs Act, 1962 and Regulations framed thereunder, the same is appealable order. Moreover, vide our earlier Order dated 06.01.2016 in Application C/COD/95496/15 in this Appeal we had already observed as follows - Thus, the issue of maintainability was already decided by us while condoning the delay in filing of the instant appeal, and the .attempt of the Revenue to seek review thereof was unwarranted and erroneous. 7.	Another preliminary objection was raised by the Revenue that vide Order dated 21.01.2016, representation of the Appellant was rejected by the Chief Commissioner of Customs, and hence, the Tribunal shall not interfere with the impugned Order. We find no merit in this preliminary objection. A representation is not same as appeal. In an order passed on representation, there is no merger with the original order as in case of an order passed in an appeal. The representation is not in derogation of the statutory remedy of appeal. An appeal, if preferred, has to be decided on its own merits. . 7. This view taken by us is binding on us. The said judgment has not been set aside with any finding that no appeal lies against an order passed by the Commissioner of Customs as an Adjudicating Authority, under Regulation 10 of Courier (Import & Export) Regulations, 1998, which were notified by the Central Board of Excise & Customs, in ' exercise of powers conferred under Section 157 of the Customs Act, 1962. On plain reading of Section 129A of the Customs Act, 1962, we find that as the order has been passed by the Commissioner of Customs as an adjudicating authority, this appeal lies before this Tribunal. The adjudicating authority is also defined under Section 2(1) of the Customs Act, 1962 which means an authority competent to pass any order or decision under this Act. It is very clear from the reading of the regulations that they were enacted under the powers of Section 157 of the Customs Act, 1962 for furtherance of activity under the Said Act. No judgment to the contrary deciding the issue of maintainability in light of these statutory provisions and definitions, which were considered in the case of Bombino (supra), has been produced. Moreover, the vide the impugned Adjudication Order the Commissioner as an Adjudicating Authority has imposed penalty under Section 158(2)(ii) of the Customs Act, 1962. None of the judgments relied upon by the Respondent hold that penalty imposed by the adjudicating authority under a provision of Customs Act, 1962 cannot be challenged in Appeal before this Tribunal. Therefore, we do not find any merit in the request for referring the matter to a larger bench. We therefore have no hesitation in holding that the appeal is maintainable as per the ratio laid down in Bombino (supra). 7.1 We have carefully considered the factual allegations. The appellant has denied any knowledge of the alleged conspiracy and offence committed by certain persons, which included some employees of the appellant. This lack of knowledge is not in dispute. The appellant courier ought to have been more cautious and vigilant. There was systemic failure / lax administration of Courier to contain fraud, there was involvement / complicity of its employee of foreign counter part, and certain employees committed gross illegalities. However, we find that it is not the case of the department that the appellant courier company itself was actively involved in any violation by taking help of its employees with intent to evade any duty or prohibition or for any personal gains. We find that there is no dispute on the fact that the named employees of the appellant courier have committed gross violations on their own accord to satisfy their own greed without knowledge of the appellant courier. 7.2 It is also not in dispute that the appellant courier has initiated criminal and disciplinary proceedings against the guilty employees and removed them from service. It is seen from the impugned order itself that the employee Hitesh Fofandi was terminated on 19.5.2014 and police complaint against him was filed with Sahar Police Station, Andheri, Mumbai on 29.5.2014 itself. It is not the case of the department that the police investigations revealed any complicity of the appellant courier. 7.3. The courier license was granted to appellant in 2005. It is not in dispute that since then the appellant courier had unblemished track record. The adjudication order records that the submission of appellant that various internal processes have been rehashed and remedied to ensure that such lapses do not happen in future. The appellant has been proceeded against by alleging the vicarious liability for the acts committed by its employees. 7.4 It is not the case of the department that the appellant courier was making any payment to the guilty employees for the illegal work done by them. It is also not a case where the employees are doing any illegality at the instance of their employer. The guilty employees were not employed for such illegal acts, which were outside of the scope of their employment. The positive case of the department against the appellant is that there was systemic failure on behalf of the appellant to detect the fraud and lack of supervisory control. It cannot therefore be held that the appellant itself has committed any fraud with intent to evade any duty or prohibition. The observations to this effect recorded in the impugned Order are thus erroneous. 7.5. Even if the Courier company was to be penalized for lack of proper supervision and being negligent for violation of courier regulations in this regard, the penalty of Rs. 50,000/- has been imposed on them under Section 158(2)(ii) of the Act for violation of provisions of Courier Regulations. 7.6. 	 The Courier License was suspended on 06.06.2014 pending inquiry for revocation. Thereafter the same has been revoked vide the impugned Order without conducting any further inquiry under Courier Regulations, by relying upon the show cause notice issued under Section 28 read with Section 124 of the Act. The Appellant and its employees (other than the guilty employees), who were themselves not involved in any fraud, have already faced much hardship and have been deprived of their livelihood for a considerably long period since June, 2014. The punishment already suffered by keeping them out of business and imposition of penalty of Rs. 50,000/- under Section 158(2)(ii) should suffice. In Falcon Air Cargo and Travels (P) Ltd. Vs Union of India , 2002 (140) E.L.T. 8 (Del.), the Hon'ble Delhi High Court was pleased to observe that- 7.7 In view of the reasons recorded hereinabove, we do not find any reasonable justification to subject the appellant to any further punishment by extending benefit of doubt. In the result, we are allowing the appeal and we set aside the impugned Order to the extent it revoked the Courier Registration and forfeited the amount submitted by the Appellants as security at the time of registration of the Courier License. The Courier Registration of the Appellant stands restored with security deposit forthwith with consequential relief. 8.	 The appeal is partly allowed with consequential relief. (Order pronounced in Court on 29.12.2016)

(C.J. Mathew)
Member (Technical)
 (M.V. Ravindran)
 Member (Judicial)

nsk 1 25 Appeal No. C/86300/16