Date: 17.12.18

 This petition is filed under Section 439 of the CrPC for bail by accused

petitioner Rakesh Paul in connection with Bhangagarh PS case 159/2017 u/s

120(B) / 420 / 468 / of the IPC read with Section 7 / 13(1)(a) (d)(iii) /(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act . (2) It may be mentioned that while accused petitioner was working as the

Chairman of the Assam Public Service Commission(APSC), he was arrested in

connection with Dibrugarh PS case 936/2016 for the alleged taking bribes from

various prospective candidates for giving appointments in various posts of civil

services in the State of Assam, the examinations of which were conducted by the

APSC. Subsequently the present case was filed by one Vedanta Vikash Das with

similar allegation that the accused along with associate Musaraf Hussain demanded

Rs 15 lakh as bribe to recruit him to the post of Agriculture Development Officer

conducted by APSC for which he appeared. Although he paid Rs 50,000 to the

accused as advance, he was not selected to the post as assured. On the basis of the
 Page No.# 2/8

said FIR, the accused was shown to be arrested in the present case on 17.8.2018.

(3) Heard Mr Z Kamar, learned senior counsel for petitioner and Mr PP Baruah,

learned Public Prosecutor of Assam. (4) The present bail petition is a successive one before this court(the previous BA

1528/2017 was rejected on 14.11.2017). (5) His previous bail petition was rejected considering the serious nature of

accusation against him and taking into account the apparent complicity in the

racket of collection of money for appointment in government jobs. While disposing

the said bail petition this court directed the investigating officer to complete the

investigation and to file supplementary charge sheet as early as possible within a

period of three months from the date of the order, however with further observation

that for better interest of the investigation the IO may make prayer before the court

concerned to submit supplementary charge sheet for justified reasons and the

learned trial court will be at liberty to consider the same and the accused can renew

his bail prayer after filing of such charge sheet. This observation was made in the

interest of investigation so that the IO may collect all necessary oral and

documentary evidence in view of the complex nature of the offence.

(6) The said order dated 14.11.2017 was not interfered by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in SLP(crl.) no.991070 by order dated 18.1.2018. Record reveals that

subsequent to the order of this court the IO filed two supplementary chargesheets

with the permission of the court. The bail prayer made by the accused before the

learned Special Judge, Assam was rejected by order dated 29.8.2018. Hence this

petition. Page No.# 3/8

(7) Primarily on the ground of length of detention and that charge sheet is

already filed against the accused and trial has not commenced yet the bail is sought.

In addition, similar privilege of bail that is granted to other set of accused in the

connected case(DBR PS case 936/2016)is prayed. (8) Learned senior counsel for petitioner Mr Z Kamar, referring to the

observations made by this court in the order dated 14.11.2017, contends that in

spite of the observations of this court the IO has not yet concluded the investigation

and several supplementary charge sheets have been filed against other accused

persons but not against the present accused. Similarly it is also submitted that this

court considering the length of their detention had granted bail to other set of

accused persons by order dated 4.10.2018 in the connected DBR PS case 936/2016

in BA 1755/2018-batch and on the same ground the present accused may also

granted bail. (9) Relying on the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in AIR 1999 SC 1533,

Sunil Kumar Sinha vs. State of Bihar; 2000 CrLJ 2786, Mahesh Kumar

Bhawsinghkha vs. State of Delhi ; 2000 CrLJ 2774, Vivek Kumar vs. State of UP; AIR

2012 SC 2338, Ram Choubey vs. State of Bihar and another; Sanjay Chandra vs.

CBI , 2012 (1) SCC 40; 2012 CrLJ 1664, Dipak Subhashchandra Mehta vs. CBI and

another ; and 2017 CrLJ 2234, Hussain and another v. Union of India; it is

contended that in view of the length of detention the accused should be allowed to

go on bail as trial is not yet commenced and speedy trial is the right of the accused

and its violation will offend Article 21 of the Constitution. Further submission of Mr

Kamar is that the offence is not a heinous one and as the accused is already
 Page No.# 4/8

suspended from service, there is no scope of hampering the investigation or

tampering the witnesses by him. (10) Learned Public Prosecutor Mr PP Baruah, however, opposed the contention of

learned senior counsel for petitioner saying that the length of detention is not the

criteria in such serious socio-economic offence having a serious impact in the

society. Further it is contended that being a successive bail application the

petitioner has failed to show any change in circumstances to get the privilege of bail.

(11) In support of his contention reliance is placed on the decisions of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in (2004) 7 SCC 528, Kalyan Chandra Sarkar vs. Rajesh Ranjan,

2013 (7) SCC 466; Nimmagadda Prasad vs. CBI ; ( 2017) 13 SCC 751, State of Bihar

and another vs. Amit Kukmar ; (12) Attention is drawn to the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court while

considering the bail relating to socio-economic offences. In Kalyan Chandra(supra)

para 12, it is held that in regard to cases where earlier bail applications were rejected

there is further onus on the court to consider the subsequent application for grant of

bail by noticing the grounds on which earlier bail applications have been rejected and

after such consideration if the court is of the opinion that bail has to be granted then

the said court will have to give specific reasons while in spite of earlier rejection the

subsequent application for bail should be granted. In such cases the court has a duty

to record what are the fresh grounds which persuaded it to take a view different from

the one taken in earlier applications. (13) In Nimmagadda Prasad (supra) it is held that apart from other relevant

grounds and considerations for granting bail one of the grounds is larger interest of
 Page No.# 5/8

public/State and other similar considerations. It is held that economic offence

constitutes a class apart and need to be visited with a different approach in the

matter of bail. The economic offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving

huge loss of public funds needs to be viewed seriously and considered as a grave

offence affecting the economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious

threat to the financial health of the country. (14) In Amit Kumar(supra) which is known as 'Bihar Topper Scam", where the

accused Amit Kumar being principal of the college of Vishnu Rai College involved in

tampering with the answer sheets by illegal means and interfering the examination

system has illegally selected unsuccessful candidates of poor intellectual capacity

and placed them in the merit list of the intermediate examination in the State of

Bihar conducted by Bihar Intermediate Educational Council. The bail granted to the

accused by the High Court on the ground of length of detention was cancelled by the

Apex Court with the observation that when the seriousness of offence is such nature

the mere fact that the accused was in jail for however long time should not be the

concern of the court and granting bail in such case has the effect of undermining

the trust of people in the integrity of the education system. Persuaded by the facts

that the accused was the kingpin of the scam and was alleged to be involved in

tampering with answer scripts by illegal means, his bail granted earlier was

cancelled. The case of Sanjay Chandra is stated to be distinguishable from the said

case as the charges in the case of Sanjay Chandra carried a maximum punishment

for 7 years, whereas in the case of Amit Kumar, the punishment is on higher side.

Para 13 of the judgment is quoted below: economic offences has deep-rooted conspiracies affecting the moral fiber of the society

and causing irreparable harm need to be considered seriously."

(15) Due consideration is given to the submissions of learned counsel for both

parties and the legal pronouncements referred to above. (16) The present bail application being a successive one its status report along

with case diary was called for which are produced before this court and I have gone

through the same carefully. (17) In the status report, the IO has mentioned that as many as seven accused

persons were arrested in connection with the present case and further investigation

u/s 173(8) of the CrPC is still continuing to ascertain and adduce more evidence

against the arrested accused persons including the present accused against whom

sufficient evidence has emerged in such further investigation. The accused is stated

to be very intelligent and desperate in nature who himself entered into conspiracy to

collect bribes from candidates through middlemen for selecting them to the posts of

Agriculture Development Officer and by his conduct he lowered the reputation of

APSC as well as demoralized the meritorious candidates of the State. Accordingly the

IO has raised objection to granting bail that in view of the complex modus operandi. Page No.# 7/8

The accused is required to be kept in judicial custody to find out the money

exchanging hands as well as to identify the benami properties of the accused for

which further investigation is still going on in the larger interest of the State to bring

out all the factual matters by thorough investigation. (18) On perusal of the entire matters it appears that charge sheet has been

submitted against the accused on 9.10.2017 and subsequent thereto two

supplementary charge sheets were filed against other accused persons who were

members of the Board but in these supplementary charge sheets also the complicity

of the accused is indicated that he along with other members of the board has

committed all the anomalies in manipulating the answer scripts by tampering the

same which has been confirmed by the expert opinion that is received subsequently.

In the supplementary charge sheet submitted against one Basanta Doley it is stated

that the accused Basanta Doley along with the present accused and the accused

Musaraf Hussain contacted the candidates of ADO examination to provide job by

illegal way and it is revealed that further investigation needs to be carried out to

gather more evidence. The case diary reveals that in further investigation other

members of APSC have also indicated serious irregularity and illegality indulged in

by accused Rakesh Paul in conducting the said examination by flouting the rules

and regulations ignoring the other members of APSC. (19) Being the head of the institution he had undergone all possible bad practices

to provide job against collection of money from the prospective candidates for

different posts under APSC and employed various middlemen to find out the

candidates who are willing to give bribe by fixing the rate of each post and
 Page No.# 8/8

candidates who offered money were provided question and answer keys. He was

closely associated with the members of the board in the whole process so that one of

them may remain on the interview board of the candidates whom they wanted to

select by taking bribes. (20) Even after the filing of the charge sheet astounding evidence has cropped up

against the serious conduct of the accused which is enough to reveal the unhealthy,

illegal conduct carried by the head of an institution like APSC to malign the

institution which was entrusted with the selection of public servants who will decide

the affairs of the State. A very panic picture is writ large in this case. The accused

being the Chairman is the kingpin of the entire matter and his status cannot be

equated with the other accused persons(the selected candidates) to give the same

privilege as sought. In the given background of the case and the modus operandi of

the offence the same cannot be treated unlike any other criminal case to gauge the

length of detention. The evidence in the present case is not readily available as the

persons who paid bribes and were associated with such matter did not divulge such

matter earlier but came up only after filing of FIRs by the unsuccessful candidates.

In the larger interest of the State and to unearth the details behind the case as

stated by IO in the status report, the detention of the accused cannot be considered

to grant bail. (21) In the result the bail prayer is rejected. Return the case diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant