India’s Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested four individuals connected with the online gaming app Feiwin, which is under investigation for defrauding its users of over Rs 400 crore. Those behind the app then converted this money into cryptocurrency and transferred it across various crypto wallets. The ED got support from crypto exchange Binance to trace the flow of money across different wallets and uncover the scam’s complete network.

In a blog post explaining the scam and the investigation, Binance mentioned that the Feiwin app initially gained traction because it allowed users to make money while playing games. Feiwin allowed users to top up their in-app wallets with various payment methods. However, once the users added a significant amount of money to these wallets, the app stopped allowing them to withdraw funds. During its investigation, the ED found that Feiwin was part of a cross-border criminal network that hid the movement of the funds by creating a complex web of transactions.

This isn’t the first time Binance has assisted law enforcement in investigating a crypto crime. Binance also supported the ED in its investigation into the E-Nugget scam , where a fraudulent digital investment scheme disguised itself as a gaming platform. This investigation led the two to freeze 42 digital-asset accounts and hundreds of bank accounts which amounted to $6 million.

In August this year, Binance registered itself with the Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-IND). The company had launched a Financial Crimes Compliance (FCC) unit as a part of its compliance program with the FIU. This unit is designed to assist law enforcement agencies in India in investigating crypto-related crimes. As per Indian regulations, all crypto companies have to register themselves with the FIU-IND and comply with requirements such as Know-Your-Customer (KYC) identity verification, keeping records of all transactions conducted by them, identifying the parties involved in these transactions and reporting suspicious transactions to the FIU-IND.

This registration came after the company halted operations in India for six months. Before its registration, FIU had been closely scrutinizing Binance’s activities in the country. In December last year, the FIU blocked access to Binance’s URL for non-compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). Then in June this year, FIU fined Binance Rs. 18.82 crore for non-compliance with PMLA.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event