SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [serious] Could we discuss about the relationship between the main couple in 'The Family man' ?
DATE: 2019-10-17
SCORE: 23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dj7i28/serious_could_we_discuss_about_the_relationship/

--- POST TEXT ---

**Important:** In this post, the relationship between Srikant and Suchi in this TV series is only a framework/medium/stepping-stone to discuss about stuff that happens between couples in general rather than a critique about the show/story.

I'm motivated to write this post because I've been cheated on in the past in a similar fashion. It was brutal but I eventually got over it but running into similar patterns in the show just brings back all those emotions. The show does a good job of gradually building to the affair but man! I shouldn't have watched it.

I'd really like to know your thoughts and feelings on the matter cause it may give me some closure. My take on it (based on what happened IRL with me) is that while it sucks for him, Srikant (like me) is also kinda responsible for the affair happening cause he didn't invest enough in the relationship. At the same time, Suchi is obviously at fault for not putting a stop to things before they got out of hand. She clearly had chemistry with the other dude. Things were treading the thin line, almost always about to cross it. Like with my ex, I expected her to uphold the trust and stop but that didn't happen.

*I feel really vulnerable writing all this up and would delete this post later, but I really want to discuss a bit first.*

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

**About what happened with me (it's long and it's mushy, so I suggest skipping over unless you really want to)**

Several years ago, before my career started, I was in this dead-end job living paycheck to paycheck. It was my first one right after college, it was mundane, the pay was bad, the work hours were terrible and they basically treated us like servants. I did my engineering in electronics and this was the only core electronics job that I could land at the time.

I prepared for interviews in the little free time there was and I was also in a relationship with someone in my hometown (this was my very first). We'd talk on the phone at night everyday, sometimes followed by a some texting on Whatsapp (I think it only supported text back then). Things seemed normal aside from the few ups and downs. However, one day I found her online much later at night. This was a few hours after we finished talking. I'm never up at those hours, I had opened up the app to see if she was up cause I couldn't sleep or something that night (can't remember the specifics) we texted anyhow, but it was strangely brief, It felt weird overall. The same thing repeated a few random days. After a few nights of this repeating, I opened the app just to see how long she stayed online and it was several hours long. The whole thing felt REALLY off but I ignored what I felt cause I really wanted to trust her. So, we talked about it and she dismissed it as catching up with old friends. It still felt off and she just dodged around my questions on why these friends only hung around at night time. I respected her privacy, feeling jealous or closely monitoring her felt beneath me. Once again, I just ignored the whole thing and continued like nothing happened.

As much as I tried to suppress it, my gut feelings just kept disturbing me all the while and one day I requested her to stop texting people at night, daytime talk was okay. Asking her that felt like I stooped to a new low, it made me feel dirty about myself.... However, she continued. At this point some part of me knew that it's over but I really wanted things to go on like nothing happened. So, once again I ignored 'myself' only to eventually discover that she was cheating on me with her ex who lived nearby. It's hard to describe what I felt but suffice to say it was an awful cocktail of negative emotions with several bouts of depression. The breach of trust was brutal. I felt broken and inadequate, like I'm unlovable or that I did the wrong things. It took a while to trust people again, I feared relationships.

People thought I was dumb cause I wasn't aware of things. Besides, I recharged her data balance only for her to use that to talk with the other guy. As a guy, discussing emotions IRL is hard, cause everyone expects you to 'man up' and all that.

My flavour of love is kinda subdued, I'd like someone a lot but likely wouldn't express it with big words or by being around them all the time. I prefer giving space, ya know, do a bunch of other activities AWAY from them and THEN spend some time together. This may also have contributed to things going awry, she preferred intense emotions and a lot of closeness.