1. The case investigated on the basis of FIR registered on
31.03.1992 (about two decades back) resulted in chargesheet
being presented on 09.11.1995 seeking trial of 13 accused
mentioned above for offences u/s 120B r/w Section 419 , 420 , 511 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC and Section 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) of PC Act, 1988 and also the substantive offences. It is alleged that the accused
entered into criminal conspiracy with the object to cheat
Government of India to the extent of over Rs.27.07 lakhs by
depositing Indian currency in two fake/fictitious accounts opened
for the purpose, so as to falsely claim that the bank drafts issued
represented foreign exchange received under the scheme. It is
alleged that certificate on aforesaid basis issued under the
scheme were utilised intentionally and knowingly by the respective
beneficiaries by depositing the amount in their respective banks
stating that they were proceeds of foreign exchange for claiming
income tax exemption. At this stage, it may be appropriate to mention that all the 13
accused have been reflected in the title for proper comprehension
of the facts as placed in the chargesheet. Accused Ajay Kumar
Gupta (A-6), Satish Kumar Gupta (A-7), V. K. Khanna (A-10),
Mukesh Gulati (A-11), Mahender Singh (A-12) and Arun Kumar
Gupta (A-13) were charged u/s 120B IPC r/w Section 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC and Section 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) of PC Act, 1988 as
well as substantive charge u/s 474 IPC. Accused V. K. CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 3 of 59 Khanna (A-10) and Mukesh Gulati (A-11) were also charged u/s 420 / 511 IPC. The aforesaid six accused pleaded guilty at
the stage of charge and were convicted and sentenced vide
order dated 05.03.2002 by the then Special Judge, Delhi.
Further, considering the fact that none of the said accused, who
had pleaded guilty could not actually derive any pecuniary
advantage and the protracted proceedings, accused were
sentenced TRC and fine. The trial, as such, has proceeded against the remaining
accused. Out of the same, A-1 Jagdish Kumar Jain (public
servant), A-2 Satish Kumar Jain and A-5 Jaydev Tyagi (public
servant) have expired during the course of trial and as such
the proceedings against them stand abated. A-3 Y. P. Tara
absconded during the course of proceedings. The effective trial, as such, remains against the
remaining three accused A-4 Pawan Sain Jain (public
servant), A-8 S. P. Goel and A-9 Beena Goel. 2. Scheme under the Foreign Exchange and Investment in
 Foreign Banks (Immunities and Exemptions Act, 1991)
 Government of India introduced a scheme on 18.09.1991
regarding inward foreign exchange remittances under the Foreign
Exchange and Investment in Foreign Banks (Immunities and
Exemptions Act, 1991). The scheme provided for immunity to
persons receiving remittance of foreign exchange and also
granted certain exemptions from direct tax in relation to such
remittance received by persons residing in India. In terms of CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 4 of 59 Section 3(1) of the Act, a recipient of such remittance claiming
immunity/exemption under the law was not required to disclose for
any purpose whatsoever the nature and source of remittance
received by him and no investigation or enquiry was to be
commenced against such recipient under any law on the ground
of receipt of said remittance and the remittance received was not
to be treated as income of the recipient, except that income tax
was to be levied against income that might arise or accrue from
the amount of remittance. Under the scheme, the recipient of the remittances in foreign
exchange was required to file a declaration in triplicate in the
prescribed form to the authorized dealer through whom the inward
remittance had been received, not later than 15 days from the
date of such receipt and the authorized dealer was required to
authenticate all the said three copies of the declaration with date
and full signatures under his seal, so as to make the recipient
eligible for claiming immunity/exemption. On amount being received and appropriated in the account,
the beneficiary would be required to get a certificate from the bank
and after ascertaining the facts, the authorized officer was to issue
a certificate confirming that the remittance had been received
under the Immunity Scheme and was not valid for refund or
conversion facilities. 3. Brief Facts
 The case was registered on source information by CBI on CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 5 of 59 31.01.1992 with the allegations that accused public servants
namely J. K. Jain (A-1), and Jaydev Tyagi (A-5) while working as
Dy. Chief Officer and officer respectively in Central Bank of India,
Daryaganj, Branch during the period Feb. 1991 to Nov. 1991,
entered into a criminal conspiracy among themselves and with
Shri Y. P. Tara (A-3) and with some persons and misused their
official position and cheated the Govt. of India to the extent of over
Rs.27.07 lakhs. It was further alleged that huge amount of Indian
currency was deposited to fictitious current accounts in Central
Bank of India, Daryaganj and thereafter 12 demand drafts of Rs.
11.07 lakhs were issued to different parties alongwith bogus
certificate showing the amount of demand drafts as remittance in
foreign exchange from NRE accounts. The above said bogus
certificates were issued by Shri J. K. Jain (A-1) fraudulently and
he also manipulated the records and allowed irregular credit in the
abovesaid two accounts. 4. Modus Operandi & evidence collected during
 investigation (i) Investigation allegedly disclosed that two
 fictitious accounts were opened in Central Bank of
 India, Daryaganj i.e Account No.3024 in the name of
 M/s Modern Engineers and Fabricators and the other
 home saving account No. 17036 in the name of Shri
 Satish Kumar Joshi at the instance of Shri J. K. Jain
 (A-1), S. K. Jain (A-2), Pawan Sain Jain (A-4), Jaydev CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 6 of 59 Tyagi (A-5) and Y. P. Tara (A-3). Shri S. K. Jain (A-2)
 was a Railway Ticket Collector of Northern Railway
 working in Delhi and has since expired. (ii) The Current Account No. 3024 was allegedly
 opened by S. K. Jain by impersonating himself as Raj
 Kumar, Prop. of M/s Modern Engineers and Fabricators
 as fictitious firm. He was introduced by Shri Y. P. Tara,
 Prop. M/s Sears Leasing Industries Ltd. and this
 account was opened at the instance of Shri J. K. Jain as
 is clear from the endorsement of Shri J. D. Tyagi on the
 back of the current account specimen signature card
 wherein it is mentioned that the account was opened
 through Shri J. K. Jain. (iii) The other account i.e. Home Saving Account No.
 17036 was allegedly opened at the instance of Shri J. K.
 Jain, Pawan Sain Jain, S. K. Jain and J. D. Tyagi. The
 writing in the account opening form and specimen
 signature card is alleged to be of Shri Pawan Sain Jain
 impersonating as Satish Kumar Joshi. Shri S. K. Jain,
 who is not an employee of Central Bank of India had
 filled up the credit voucher for opening this account in
 the name of a fictitious person Shri Satish Kumar Joshi.
 Shri J. D. Tyagi was responsible for getting this fictitious
 account opened. (iv) All the vouchers pertaining to credit of cash into
 the two accounts mentioned above and the debit
 vouchers by which the cash was withdrawn and then
 drafts prepared in the name of various parties through
 whom cash were obtained were collected, prepared for
 getting these parties benefit under the Remittance of
 Foreign Exchange under Investment in Foreign
 Exchange Bonds "Immunities & Exemption Act, 1991",
 falsely. It is further alleged that on scrutiny of the
 records it was revealed that seven drafts were prepared
 out of cash deposited in the current account in the name
 of M/s Modern Engineers and Fabricators and four
 drafts were prepared in various names by depositing in
 the Home Saving Account. (v) The following drafts were from current account No.
 3024 of M/s Modern Engineers and Fabricators :- One draft favouring Sonal Goyal was prepared directly
 depositing the cash and the details of which is as
 under :- Five of such certificates were given by Shri J. K. Jain. (viii) The particulars of the said bogus certificates are
 as follows : However Smt. Kamla Devi Baid who was provided
 with one of the demand drafts in question, was not given
 any declaration or other certificate. (ix) Investigation further allegedly disclosed that out of
 the aforesaid 11 certificates on the letter head of the
 Central Bank of India, six were typed on typewriter No.
 IT-211529 R.D. No. 145039-1476 make Facit whereas
 the remaining certificates were typed on typewriter
 bearing no. 573586 make Godrej. Investigation also
 revealed that Shri S. K. Aggarwal and Y. P. Tara typed
 the said certificates. (x) It was further revealed in investigation that only 8
 NRE accounts existed in the Central Bank of India at
 Daryaganj Branch during the relevant period and only
 NRE Account No. 131422 in the name of Shri Asgni
 Behl, Nutan Behl and Rajan Behl appeared in 2-3 bogus
 certificates of demand drafts issued to the beneficiaries.
 The respective account holder of NRE account numbers
 appearing in other bogus certificates were examined
 and they refused to have any knowledge of the
 beneficiary of the case. (xi) It was also found that different persons received
 drafts and certificates favouring the beneficiaries and
 the persons from whom the different parties collected
 demand drafts and bogus certificates, through different
 channels ultimately contacted Shri J. K. Jain, Pawan S.
 Jain, S. K. Jain, Y. P. Tara and Janak Sharma. Out of
 these, Shri J. K. Jain and Shri Pawan Sain Jain were
 from Central Bank of India, Daryaganj Branch, Shri Y. P.
 Tara was an ex-employee of Central Bank of India, Shri
 Satish Kumar Jain was a Railway employee and Shri
 Janak Sharma was a private financial consultant. (xii) Investigation further revealed that all the
 beneficiaries, after receiving their demand drafts from
 their concerned persons, deposited the same in their
 respective accounts in different banks at different
 places. The documents concerned with the different
 accounts of the different parties were seized and
 scrutinised which proved that the demand drafts in
 question were deposited in these accounts. The Branch
 Manager of the respective branches were examined
 who confirmed that demand drafts in question were
 credited in their respective accounts on different dates.
 They also confirmed that Nidhi Ativ, Ankur, Akansha,
 Mandeep Singh and Sonal Goyal were minors and their
 accounts were being operated by Shri Ajay Gupta, CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 12 of 59 Mohinder Singh Rekhi and Shri S. P. Goel and Shri Arun
 Gupta. But before they could get the benefits from
 Income Tax Authorities, the scandal was detected. (xiii) Investigation further revealed that proceeds of the
 demand drafts in question were from C/D A/c No. 3024
 and HSS A/c No. 17036 and on the deep scrutiny of
 statement of accounts of these account no's, it was
 found that the demand drafts in question were made the
 same day on which date the cash was deposited in
 these two fictitious accounts. Thus the beneficiaries or
 their respective guardians who were operating the
 accounts on their behalf made an attempt to convert
 black money into white money by taking the shelter of
 the notification of the Government of India regarding
 Remittances in Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme,
 1991 and thereby tried to cause loss of huge direct tax
 revenue by falsely and dishonestly showing the
 proceeds of demand drafts from NRE account. 5. Vide order dated 05.03.2002, charge was ordered to be
framed against all the accused except Jaydev Tyagi (A-5) who
expired during the course of proceedings (i.e. Jagdish Kumar Jain
(public servant), Satish Kumar Jain, Y. P. Tara, Pawan Sain Jain
(public servant), Ajay Kumar Gupta, Satish Kumar Gupta, S. P.
Goel, Beena Goel, V. K. Khanna, Mukesh Gulati, Mahinder Singh
and Arun Kumar Gupta u/s 120-B r/w. Sec. 420, 467, 468, 471 CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 13 of 59 IPC and under sec. 13(1)(d) r/w. Sec. 13(2) of P. C. Act, 1988) as
under : A-1 Jagdish Kumar Jain and A-4 Pawan Sain (public
servants) were also directed to be charged u/s 13(1)(d) r/w Section 13(2) of PC Act, 1988 alongwith offence u/s 467 and 468 IPC. Accused S. P. Goel (A-8) and accused Beena Goel (A-9)
were stated to have derived actual pecuniary advantage and
charge u/s 420 IPC was further directed to be framed against
them. It was further observed vide order dated 05.03.2002 that A-10 V. K. Khanna and A-11 Mukesh Gulati did make attempts to
derive pecuniary advantage on the basis of forged certificate by
presenting them before the Income Tax Authorities but before any
advantage could enure in their favour, the forgery was detected
and thus their attempt failed. As such, they were charged u/s 420
r/w Section 511 IPC. It was further observed that the evidence placed before the
Court by the prosecution does not indicate even an attempt to
cheat on the part of A-6 Ajay Kumar Gupta, A-7 Satish Kumar
Gupta, A-12 Mahinder Singh and A-13 Arun Kumar Gupta and as
such no charge for cheating or attempt to cheat ought to be
framed against them. It was also observed that A-6 to A-13 i.e. A-6 Ajay Kumar
Gupta, A-7 Satish Kumar Gupta, A-8 S. P. Goel, A-9 Beena Goel,
A-10 V. K. Khanna, A-11 Mukesh Gulati and A-12 Mahinder Singh
and A-13 Arun Kumar Gupta obtained certificates, valuable
securities which were forged to their knowledge and they obtained
the said certificates by depositing the corresponding demand
drafts in their respective accounts which demonstrated prima facie
that they intended to use the said certificates fraudulently or
dishonestly as genuine and as such were also charged u/s 474 IPC. 6. Prosecution in support of its case examined 28
witnesses. It may be mentioned that PW-5 Shri B. N. Seth and
PW-6 Ram Raj Bansal inadvertently were given the same
number by the then Ld. Predecessor and have been re-
numbered as PW-5A and PW-6A for the purpose of this
judgment, to avoid any confusion in numbering of witnesses. PW-1 Ram Chandra Tripathi (Sanctioning Authority) was
the competent authority to appoint and remove Jagdish Kumar
Jain (A-1), the then Deputy Chief Officer, Pawan Sain Jain (A-4)
and Jaydev Tyagi (A-5 since deceased) and accorded the
sanction for prosecution of the aforesaid three employees vide
sanction order Ex.PW1/A.

 PW-2 Shri C. M. Satyabalan was working as Branch
Manager during the relevant period in Central Bank of India, CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 16 of 59 Daryaganj, New Delhi. He detailed the guidelines with reference
to circular of central office regarding the receiving of inward
foreign remittances and proved the circular dated 04.10.1991
mark A, circular dated 09.10.1991 mark B and forwarding letter to
Zonal Officer dated 25.11.1991 mark C. He further stated that
account no., 3024 in the name of M/s Modern Engineering and
Fabricators and another account no. 17036 in the name of
Satish Kumar Joshi were not NRE accounts. He further
identified the signatures of Jaydev Tyagi on current account
opening form of Modern Engineering and Fabricators bearing
account no. 3024 (Ex.PW2/B), the specimen signatures card
Ex.PW2/A. He further identified the signatures of accused J. K.
Jain on drafts Ex.PW2/C to Ex.PW2/F i.e.
Draft no. 020563 dated 10.10.91 in favour of Nidhi Gupta for Rs.2,60,000/-.
Draft no. 820564 dated 10.10.91 in favour of AtivGupta for Rs.2,50,000/-.
Draft no. 020705 dated 30.10.91 in favour of V. K. Khanna for Rs.3,40,000/-.
Draft no. 020719 dated 01.11.91in favour of Satish Gupta for Rs.3,90,000/-. He further proved the following documents : PW-26 Dr. B. A. Vaid Govt. Examiner, Questioned
Document, Shimla proved his report as to the questioned
handwriting. He further stated that the recorded opinion no. CX-10/93 dated 29.01.93 (Ex.PW26/B) bears his signatures and
also of Shri S. K. Saxena, the then Deputy GEQD who had also
independently examined the documents and came to the same
conclusion. The reasons or grounds for giving the reasons were
further proved as Ex.PW26/C. 7. In the statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. accused denied the
prosecution case. Accused further sought opportunity to lead
evidence in defence. Accused Beena Goel took a stand that she
is a housewife and neither participated in any business, nor was
responsible for carrying day to day activities of the business and
did not make any request seeking any facility/benefit under the
Amnesty scheme at any time. Further, accused Beena Goel
examined herself in defence as DW-1. Also DW-2 Shri Mahesh
Kala was examined in defence on behalf of accused Pawan Sain
Jain. DW-1 Smt. Beena Goel (accused) stated that she was not
associated with the business carried by her husband S. P. Goel
and occasionally used to visit the office. Further she has never
been associated with the account books or any other activity in the
office of her husband S. P. Goel who was running the business.
She also denied having met any bank official including Pawan
Sain Jain or any other person connected with this case at Delhi or
Bareilley during 1991. She further took a stand that she might
have signed some cheques or documents at the instance of her
husband Shri S. P. Goel without being aware as to the nature of
the document. DW-2 Shri Mahesh Kala, Branch Manager, Central Bank of
India, Daryaganj produced the record pertaining to the duty list of
teller as per bank record. He further stated that duty of teller was
to pass a cheque upto amount of Rs.3,000/- but he was not aware
if a teller could issue the tax exemption certificate, declaration etc.
He further stated that bank draft was used to be prepared by the
teller under the instructions of senior officers. 8. Counsels for accused assailed the case of prosecution on
the grounds that investigation of this case was transferred on
31.03.1994 from Shri Rajiv Kumar Chaddha (IO) to Inspector
Rajesh Kumar, on transfer and promotion but prosecution failed to
examine the IO Inspector Rajesh Kumar. It was also contended
that since prosecution failed to examine Shri Roopak Kumar
Dutta, SP, CBI at whose instance FIR was formally registered on
source information, the case against the accused has not been
conclusively proved. Shri Y. P. S. Ahluwalia, Advocate for accused Pawan
Sain Jain further assailed the case of prosecution on the ground
that no evidence has been led to show that accused Pawan Sain
Jain conspired with the other public servants i.e. Jagdish Kumar
Jain (deceased) Deputy Manager or with Shri Jaydev Tyagi (A-5)
who were responsible for issuing and signing the certificates
under the Foreign Exchange Remittance Scheme. It was also
contended that even no conclusive evidence has been led to show CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 30 of 59 that accused was known to the other co-accused or the
beneficiaries under the scheme or had obtained any benefit out of
the aforesaid transactions. It was further contended on behalf of all the accused
that there is absolutely no evidence to show the meeting of minds
between accused Pawan Sain Jain or any other co-accused. Counsel for accused Pawan Sain Jain further
contended that only two circumstances were relied by the
prosecution in the charge sheet to show the complicity of accused
Pawan Sain Jain. The first piece of evidence was the filling up of
DD voucher dated 25.11.91 favouring Sonal Goel for Rs.50,000/-
Ex.PW3/E. With reference to the same, it was urged that the said
filling of voucher itself is insufficient to fix liability on the part of the
accused as the same could have been filled on behalf of any
person approaching the bank and even the said voucher (Q-38)
was opined to be in handwriting of Satish Kumar Jain. It was
further contended that there was no evidence of any nature to
show that any amount was deposited by accused Pawan Sain
Jain. The second piece of evidence against the accused is
pointed out to be the endorsement made above the stamped
initials of J.K. Jain on Ex.PW2/N i.e. declaration form under
Remittance in Foreign Exchange (Immunities ) Scheme, 1991
filled on behalf of beneficiary Sonal Goel, daughter of Beena Goel
and S.P. Goel for the remittance amount of Rs.50,000/-, bearing
the date of receipt as 25.11.91. The said endorsement consisted
of the words "issued under foreign exchange remittance CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 31 of 59 scheme" (Ex.PW2/N) and is stated to be in handwriting of Pawan
Sain Jain. Counsel for accused contended that even if the said
endorsement is admitted, the same is insufficient to infer the
conspiracy between the accused as admittedly the issuing
authority was J. K. Jain and the Accountant and the endorsement
was simply made at the asking of the officers in routine course of
duty. It is submitted that the certificate on the basis of the
declaration had been issued by co-accused J. K. Jain and there
was no evidence led by the prosecution to show that accused
Pawan Sain Jain was entrusted with any particular duty to check
the relevant accounts. Counsel for accused Pawan Sain Jain also urged that even
the sanction granted by the Sanctioning Authority PW-1 Ram
Achal Tripathi was without application of mind as he admitted
during cross-examination that draft sanction order was placed
before him at the time of passing the sanction order. In support of
the contentions, counsel for accused further relied upon : Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988
provides for criminal misconduct by public servant. The offence of
criminal misconduct by a public servant can be said to have been
committed in terms of Section 13(1)(d) (ii&iii) if the public servant
abuses his position and obtains for himself or any other person
any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or while holding office
as public servant obtains for any person any valuable thing or
pecuniary advantage without any public interest. Sub- Section 2 of Section 13 of the Act provides that any public servant who
commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but
which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. 10. Criminal conspiracy has been defined in Section 120A of the Indian Penal Code and Section 120B provides
punishment for the same. A conspiracy must be put to action, in
as much as, so long a crime is generated in the mind of the CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 33 of 59 accused, it does not become punishable. The offence is said to
have been committed only when the thoughts take concrete shape
of an agreement to do or cause to be done an illegal act or an act
although not illegal by illegal means. The gist of the offence of the
conspiracy lies in agreement being the essential element and
mere knowledge of the plan is not per se enough. It also needs to
be taken into account that the acts or the conduct of the parties
must be cautious and clear enough to infer their concurrence as
to common design and its execution. Also the incriminating
circumstances must form a chain of events from which conclusion
about the guilt of the accused could be drawn. It is also well settled that Conspiracy is hatched in private
and in secrecy for which direct evidence would rarely be available.
It is not necessary that each member to a conspiracy must know
all the details of the conspiracy. It has thus to be established that
the accused charged with criminal conspiracy had agreed to
pursue a course of conduct which he knew leading to the
commission of a crime by one or more persons to the agreement,
of that offence. In the aforesaid context, observations of the Hon'ble Apex
Court in Saju v. State of Kerala, (SC) 2000(4) R.C.R.(Criminal)
747 : 2001 AIR (SC) 175 : 2001 CriLJ 102 may also be adverted
to at this stage. The scope of Section 10 of the Evidence Act may also
be referred to at this stage as it has been contended on behalf of
accused that the evidence against the co-accused cannot be
considered against the accused facing trial in the present case.
The observations made by Hon'ble Apex Court in para 7 of Saju
v. State of Kerala, (SC)(Supra) may be further briefly referred. This Section mainly could be divided into two : the first part talks of where there is
reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired to commit
an offence or an actionable wrong, and it is only when this condition precedent is
satisfied that the subsequent part of the Section comes into operation and it is
material to note that this part of the Section talks of reasonable grounds to believe
that two or more persons have conspired together and this evidently has reference
to Section 120-A where it is provided "When two or more persons agree to do, or
cause to be done". This further has been safeguard by providing a proviso that no
agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to criminal
conspiracy. It will be therefore necessary that a prima facie case of conspiracy has
to be established for application of Section 10 . The second part of Section talks of
anything said, done or written by any one of such persons in reference to the
common intention after the time when such intention was first entertained by any
one of them is relevant fact against each of the persons believed to be so
conspiring as well for the purpose for proving the existence of the conspiracy as for
the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it. It is clear that this
second part permits the use of evidence which otherwise could not be used against
the accused person. It is well settled that act or action of one of the accused could
not be used as evidence against the other. But an exception has been carved out
in Section 10 in cases of conspiracy. The second part operates only when the first
part of the Section is clearly established i.e. there must be reasonable ground to
believe that two or more persons have conspired together in the light of the
language of Section 120-A. It is only then the evidence of action or statements
made by one of the accused, could be used as evidence against the other"...... 9. It has thus to be established that the accused charged with criminal conspiracy
had agreed to pursue a course of conduct which he knew leading to the
commission of a crime by one or more persons to the agreement, of that offence.
Besides the fact of agreement the necessary mens rea of the crime is also required
to be established." 11. In the aforesaid background, reverting to the facts of the
present case, it may be noticed that A-1 Jagdish Kumar Jain
(Deputy Chief Officer, Central Bank of India) and A-5 Jaydev Tyagi
(Sub-Accountant, Central Bank of India) have already expired.
Out of the three public servants, the only surviving accused facing
the trial is Pawan Sain Jain (A-4) who was posted as Clerk during
the aforesaid period. It needs to be observed that account no. 3024 in the name
of M/s Modern Engineers & Fabricators was opened through
proprietor described as Raj Kumar on introduction by one Shri Y.
P. Tara (A-3), an ex-employee of the bank and proprietor of M/s
Sears Leasing Industries Ltd. Shri Y. P. Tara absconded during
the course of proceedings. In specific, no role has been ascribed
to accused Pawan Sain Jain in the evidence, so far as opening of
this account is concerned. It is further the case of the prosecution that another account
no. 17036 was opened in the name of one Satish Kumar Joshi.
The prosecution alleges that owner of account no. 17036 was
fictitious and non existing person and account opening form and
specimen signatures were made by A-4 Pawan Sain Jain
impersonating as Satish Kumar Joshi while A-2 Satish Kumar Jain
(Railway Ticket Collector, Northern Railways) had filled up credit
vouchers. Accused Satish Kumar Jain also expired during trial.
The IO during the course of arguments was specifically directed to
point out in case any document, as referred to above , bearing
signatures of Pawan Sain Jain impersonating as Satish Kumar
Joshi exists on record which was forwarded for opinion of CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 37 of 59 handwriting expert to consider if the signatures had been
fabricated by Pawan Sain Jain impersonating as Satish Kumar
Joshi. However, it was admitted by ld. P.P. assisted by IO that the
account opening form pertaining to account no. 17036 i.e. D-138
does not appear to have been forwarded for opinion of
handwriting expert and no other specimen signature card appears
to be separately filed. In view of above, so far as the opening of the fictitious
account no. 17036 is concerned, no evidence has been pointed
out to link accused Pawan Sain Jain (A-4) to the opening of
account. It is not the case of the prosecution that accused Pawan
Sain Jain was responsible as part of his duties for the opening of
the said accounts and as such it may be difficult to assume that
he was in league with the other co-accused (public servants) in
the opening of said accounts. 12. To further assess the case of prosecution against accused,
the factual position with respect to the drafts issued from the said
accounts in favour of the co-accused (beneficiaries) may be
noticed. It may be observed that certain deposits came to be made in
the said two account nos. 17036 and 3024 and thereafter seven
bank drafts were issued against account no. 3024 and five bank
drafts were issued by way of debit against account no. 17036.
Same may be detailed as under : iv. Certificate dated 12.10.91 in favour of Ankur Gupta (minor son of A-13 Arun
 Kumar Gupta). v. Certificate dated 10.10.91 in favour of Nidhi Gupta (Minor daughter of A-13
 Arun Kumar Gupta). vi. Certificate dated 25.11.91 in favour of Sonal Goel (minor daughter of A-8 S. P.
 Goel). vii. Certificate dated 25.11.91 in favor of Mukesh Gulati (A-11). viii. Certificate dated 25.11.91 in favour of S. P. Goel (A-8). ix. Certificate dated 15.11.91 in favour of Sonal Goel (minor daughter of A-8 S. P.
 Goel). x. Certificate dated 26.11.91 in favour of Beena Goel (A-9). xi. Certificate dated 30.10.91 in favour of V. K. Khanna (A-10). It needs to be appreciated that the drafts were issued on the
same dates on which the amounts were deposited in the two
accounts which were not NRE accounts and the remittances were
not made on foreign exchange. The 11 certificates which had
been issued, on face of record were false and issued fraudulently
and dishonestly to enable the respective claimants to seek
exemption under the scheme. The said certificates were issued
under the signatures of accused J. K. Jain (since deceased) as
opined by the handwriting expert. So far as accused Pawan Sain
Jain is concerned, he has been linked to the conspiracy by the
prosecution allegedly on the ground that he had filled debit
voucher dated 25.11.91 (Ex.PW3/E) favouring Sonal Goel
amounting to Rs.50,000/- in his handwriting. The accused is also
stated to have made endorsement on the declaration form under
the Remittances in Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme, 1991
filled in the name of Sonal Goel to the effect "issued under the
Foreign Exchange Immunities Scheme, 1991" though it was
stamped and signed by the Branch Manager J. K. Jain and the
Accountant. Counsel for the accused has contended that mere filling of
DD voucher dated 25.11.91 in name of Sonal Goel by accused
Pawan Sain Jain is not sufficient to conclusively hold that accused
was in conspiracy with the co-accused. Perusal of Ex.PW3/E i.e. DD voucher in favour of Sonal
Goel reveals that the aforesaid document Ex.PW3/E was
forwarded for examination of handwriting expert and the
handwritten portion was marked as Q-38. As per the opinion
(Ex.PW26/B), the marked Q-38 appears to be in the handwriting
of Satish Kumar Jain whose specimen handwriting is marked as
S-1 to S-43 by the prosecution. As such, the filling up of the said
form has not been proved by accused Pawan Sain Jain on record. The only other piece of evidence which is left out against the
accused is the endorsement at Q-96 referred to above on the
declaration form in name of Sonal Goel Ex.PW2/N. Perusal of
record shows that the declarations which have been issued and
placed on record bear the stamp and signatures of the Accountant
and Manager. There is no endorsement over the stamp on
declaration form Ex.PW22/A2 in favour of Beena Goel and on
Ex.PW22/A1 in favour of S. P. Goel. However, declaration form in
favour of Mandip Singh Ex.PW2/M bears an endorsement
alongwith stamp and signatures of Branch Manager and
Accountant. An endorsement similarly exists on the declaration
form Ex.PW20/A in favour of Sonal Goel. As such, it appears that
though the stamping alongwith signatures was made on all the
declaration forms by the Branch Manager and the Accountant but
the endorsement issued under the Remittances in Foreign
Exchange Immunity Scheme, 1991 was made on some of the
forms. There does not appear to be a consistent requirement that
the endorsement was required to be made for availing the benefit
under the Scheme as a separate certificate was also required to CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 41 of 59 be issued and a declaration itself specified boldly on the form that
it was a declaration under the Remittances in Foreign Exchange
(Immunities) Scheme, 1991. It is only on one declaration form
wherein the endorsement Q-96 is stated to be in the handwriting
of accused Pawan Sain Jain though the stamp bears the
signatures of Branch Manager and the Accountant. There is no
evidence linking the accused Pawan Sain Jain to the issuance of
the 'certificates' based on the declaration in specific in any
manner. The accused has further not been ascribed with any
other role in the transactions made by the beneficiaries except as
pointed out above. The defence of the accused that the same
may have been made at the asking of the officer concerned on the
account of work load or in official exigencies cannot be ruled out.
It may not be safe to pin down the accused merely on the basis of
a solitary endorsement referred to above which is otherwise
explainable in absence of any other circumstance linking the
accused to the conspiracy. In the facts and circumstances, the
prosecution has failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt in case
the accused Pawan Sain Jain was a party to the conspiracy with
the co-accused. 13. The counsel for accused Pawan Sain Jain has also
challenged the sanction granted by the sanctioning authority and
has further relied upon 1999 III AD (Delhi) 177 Bhisham Kumar
vs. State and 1985 Crl.L.J. 1971 Md. Tafazul Rahman vs. State
of Orissa to contend that the sanction is vitiated since the
sanctioning authority signed the draft sanction order given by CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 42 of 59 Vigilance Department. Perusal of record reveals that PW-1 Shri Ram Achal Tripathi,
General Manager deposed that he had accorded sanction for
prosecution Ex.PW1/A after going through the documents and
statements of witnesses besides police report furnished to him by
the CBI office and after going through the same. During cross-
examination, he admitted that the draft sanction order was placed
before him but he clarified that the same was examined by him
before signing the same alongwith statements. I am of the
considered view that merely because the draft sanction order was
placed by the Vigilance Department, it cannot be held that the
same was mechanically signed as the sanctioning authority
specifically stated during the short cross-examination that the
documents were gone through prior to grant of sanction. There is
nothing on record to suggest that the sanctioning authority failed
to take into consideration the entire material placed before it. The
Authorities cited by the counsel for accused are distinguishable on
facts as therein on the basis of the evidence on record the Court
was of the opinion that the sanctioning authority had also not
taken into consideration the entire material placed for
consideration for grant of sanction. The said contention has been
referred since the submissions were made before this Court
though on merits it has been already been observed that the
prosecution has failed to bring home the charge against accused
Pawan Sain Jain beyond reasonable doubt. Accused Pawan
Sain Jain is accordingly acquitted. 14. It is pertinent to observe that accused Ajay Kumar Gupta
(A-6), Satish Kumar Gupta (A-7), V. K. Khanna (A-10), Mukesh
Gulati (A-11), Mahinder Singh (A-12) and Arun Kumar Gupta
(A-13) stand convicted for conspiracy u/s 120B r/w Section 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC and u/s 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) of PC Act, 1988 as
well as u/s 474 IPC on their pleading guilty at the stage of charge.
The said accused had also obtained certificates under the
Scheme as by the present accused Beena Goel and S. P. Goel
who are related as husband and wife. The same also reflects that
it was admitted by the convicted co-accused that the accounts
from which the amount was remitted by bank drafts were neither
NRE accounts, nor any remittance in the same were by way of
foreign exchange and further the certificates under the Scheme
had been wrongly obtained. Apart from above, the evidence on record proves beyond
reasonable doubt that the account no. 3024 and 17036 were not
NRE accounts and as such no certificate under the Remittance of
Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme, 1991 could be issued
with respect to any amount remitted from the said accounts. The
modus operandi adopted in connivance with the public servants
(bank officials) was to show the deposit of amount by the
beneficiary accused in the said accounts and thereafter draft was
issued from the said account in favour of the beneficiary accused
on the same date or immediately thereafter. Further, a certificate
was issued on behalf of the bank officials certifying issuing of the
demand draft in favour of beneficiary from NRE account and
further certifying that the amount was collected through foreign CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 44 of 59 remittance. It is pertinent to note that the accused S. P. Goel and Beena
Goel are residents of Bareilly. The amount used for depositing at
Darya Ganj, Delhi would not have been without their knowledge.
The amount was accordingly deposited in the Branch and the draft
was prepared for showing it as Remittance in Foreign Exchange
(Immunities) Scheme, 1991. The amount was further credited in
the respective accounts of the accused at Bareilley and for the
aforesaid purpose the prosecution has also filed the relevant
ledger sheets showing the debiting of the amount. Even the drafts
also reflect the fact of crediting of the same in the concerned
accounts. The fact that the 'declaration forms' alongwith
'certificates' issued under Remittance in Foreign Exchange
(Immunities) Scheme, 1991 were recovered and seized from the
premises of the accused leads to the only inference that the
accused were duly aware that the said amount remitted by bank
draft was for seeking the benefit under the Scheme. The offence
stood completed the moment, the drafts were got issued and were
further got credited by the accused in their respective accounts.
The circumstances point out to only inference that the entire
transactions would not have been possible without the actual
complicity and knowledge of accused S. P. Goel and Beena Goel.
It is immaterial whether for purpose of claiming the benefit the
declaration forms were finally filled up in their hand or were got
filled on their behalf by someone else. Such huge amount in the
year 1992 would not have been handed over by the accused for
being deposited without being aware of the purpose for which the CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 45 of 59 same was being deposited and the drafts obtained. The
circumstance and evidence on record clearly point out that the
accused were in league with the co-accused/public servants. The
contention on behalf of the accused that the prosecution case fails
as there is no direct evidence of passage of gratification to the
public servants cannot be accepted. It is explicit from the facts
and circumstances that the public servants had misconducted
themselves in order to ensure that the beneficiary accused are
able to gain by illegally showing the income as Remittance under
the Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme, 1991. 15. It may also be appropriate to refer to other contentions made
on behalf of accused S. P. Goel and Beena Goel. It has been
contended by counsel for accused that expert evidence is a weak
type of evidence and the Courts do not consider it as conclusive
and, therefore, it is not safe to rely upon it without seeking
independent and reliable corroboration. Reference in this regard
has been made to 1996 Crl.L.J. 3237 S. Gopal Reddy vs. State
of Andhra Pradesh. There is no dispute to the aforesaid extent
as to the proposition of law. However, counsel for accused has
further contended that since permission was not obtained by the
IO prior to obtaining the specimen handwriting of the accused, the
opinion of the handwriting expert has to be excluded. For the
aforesaid purpose reliance is placed upon the judgement passed
by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi decided on 05.04.2010 in Crl. Appeal 537/2006 Md. Yunus vs. State , judgement passed by
the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Crl. Appeal 682/2008 Santosh CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 46 of 59 @ Bhure vs. State decided on 05.03.2009, judgement passed by
the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Crl. Appeal 513/2001 Avdesh
vs. State decided on 14.05.2009 alongwith Sukhwinder Singh &
Ors. vs. State of Punjab 1994(3) SCR 1061. I am of the considered view that the law on the aforesaid
point has been further authoritatively clarified in Bhupinder Singh
vs. State in the judgement passed by the three Judges Bench of
the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Crl. Appeal No. 1005/2008
decided on 30.11.2011. In the aforesaid case, expressing doubt
to the correctness of decisions in Harpal Singh v. State (Criminal
Appeal No. 362/2008 decided on 25th May, 2010) and Satyawan v.
State (Criminal Appeal No. 34/2011 decided on 9th July, 2009)
wherein the two division benches had ignored the part of the
report of the handwriting expert on the ground that the
investigating officer had taken the specimen handwriting in
violation of the provisions of the the Identification of Prisoners Act,
1920 , the following question was referred for adjudication by a
larger Bench "Whether the sample finger prints given by the
accused during investigation under Section 4 of the
Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920 without prior permission
of the Magistrate under Section 5 of the Act will be
admissible or not?" In view of the authoritative pronouncement in Bhupinder
Singh vs. State (Supra) and other authorities referred therein, I am CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 48 of 59 of the considered view that opinion of the handwriting expert
cannot be excluded merely on the ground that the specimen
handwriting of the accused were obtained during investigation for
comparison without seeking the permission of the Magistrate.
Apart from above, even otherwise, the evidence on record is
sufficient to link the accused S.P. Goel and Beena Goel to
conspiracy. In the aforesaid context, counsel for accused has also
contended that the specimen handwritings of the accused were
initially obtained and thereafter the name of the accused was
subsequently typed during investigation, as revealed in cross-
examination of IO. It is further submitted on behalf of the accused
that the specimen writings which were obtained pertain to accused
other than whose name is subsequently typed and reflected in the
heading of the sheet containing the specimen handwriting. The
said contention appears to be meritless as the suggestion given to
this extent was denied by the IO and there is no other material on
record to assume that the specimen handwriting is of a person
other than whose name has been reflected/typed on the
concerned sheet containing the specimen handwriting. 16. The counsel for the accused has further assailed the case of
the prosecution on the ground that the IO Rajesh Kumar has not
been examined. The said contention has been refuted on behalf
of prosecution on the ground that the substantial investigation had
been carried by Deputy SP Rajiv Chaddha who has been duly
examined and merely the charge-sheet was filed by the other IO CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 49 of 59 on transfer of Rajiv Chaddha (PW-25). I am of the considered view that the accused cannot be said
to be prejudiced on account of non-examination of Inspector
Rajesh Kumar IO who had merely filed the charge-sheet as the
substantial investigation had been carried out by Deputy SP Rajiv
Chaddha. 17.It also needs to be mentioned that the charge has been framed
against the accused S. P. Goel and Beena Goel with reference to
remittances/certificates as detailed in the facts. Further reference
has been made in the charge to the draft dated 25.11.91 for Rs.
1,50,000/- in favour of S. P. Goel, draft dated 26.11.91 for Rs.
1,50,000/- in favour of Beena Goel, draft dated 25.11.91 for Rs.
50,000/- in favour of minor Sonal Goel (minor daughter of S. P.
Goel). Accused during the course of arguments have contended
that the draft related to Sonal Goel cannot be considered against
the accused since there is no specific charge referring to the fact
that the same had been applied by them on behalf of minor Sonal
Goel. I am of the considered view that irrespective of the
aforesaid contention, the fact that the drafts in the name of Sonal
Goel in sum of Rs. 50,000/- referred to above and another draft for
Rs.81,000/- in favour of Sonal Goel had been wrongly credited as
Remittances under the Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme,
1991 can be considered as a part of the series of the facts of the
entire transaction and the proceedings cannot be said to be
vitiated merely on this account. Since Sonal Goel was a minor her CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 50 of 59 account was operative through parents / guardian. In the facts
and circumstances, even if the drafts in favour of Sonal Goel are
excluded, the charge still stands proved against the accused on
the basis of remittances and drafts in their own favour. 18. Counsel for accused also contended that accused Beena
Goel being a housewife was unaware as to the transactions
carried on her behalf by her husband and was not associated with
the business activity in any manner. Reference in this regard has
also been made to testimony of Beena Goel who examined
herself in defence. It may be observed that during the course of arguments, no
reference has been made on behalf of the accused to the defence
taken on their behalf in specific that the accused were misled by
their accountant Shri Shiv Kumar Aggarwal (their employee) who
had introduced a person by name of Sarvesh Aggarwal for
purpose of investment and the applicant had only shown interest
for investing in National Housing Immunity Scheme and not the
present scheme from which the drafts were issued to Sarvesh
Kumar Aggarwal by misrepresentation. The accused did not in
any manner stick to the aforesaid defence which was taken in the
written application dated 21.02.2002 filed on record on their behalf
and neither any such evidence was led in defence evidence or
witnesses suggested on aforesaid lines. Neither any criminal
prosecution or complaint was lodged by S. P. Goel and Beena
Goel against Sarvesh Aggarwal if any such misrepresentation was CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 51 of 59 made by him. The amount was duly credited in the account of
Beena Goel who is a educated lady and it cannot be believed that
the entire transaction had taken place without her knowledge or
concurrence. Even after the filing of FIR the aforesaid amount
has been disclosed to the IT Department only somewhere in the
year 1998 as per evidence led on record. In the facts and
circumstances, accused Beena Goel is also duly liable for the
offences proved against her. 19. The counsel for accused S.P. Goel and Beena Goel has next
contended that the accused could have been prosecuted only
under the Income Tax Act, 1961 and not under Section 420 IPC
for dishonestly omitting to declare the income and evade the
income tax on the basis of aforesaid forged certificate. It is further
submitted that offence of cheating u/s 420 IPC has not been
established on record. The fact that income represented by the certificates under
the Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme, 1991 came to be
declared for the first time in January/ February, 1998 by way of
voluntary disclosure has come on record. No evidence has been
pointed out on behalf of accused in case the income
corresponding to the amount represented under the Foreign
Remittances was declared in the regular returns for the
corresponding years pertaining to 1992-1993. This definitely
reflects and leads to only inference that at least there was an
attempt to conceal the income for filing of return during the
relevant years though the same may have been subsequently CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 52 of 59 disclosed by way of voluntary disclosure. The burden lay on the
prosecution to affirmatively prove, if the said certificates obtained
under the remittances in Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme,
1991 had been used by the accused before Income Tax Authority.
However, no specific evidence as been brought to my notice
whereby the said certificates were produced before the Income
Tax Deptt. In the facts and circumstances, the non-disclosure in
the relevant years leads to only inference that an attempt had
been made to cheat the Income Tax Deptt and the same was
disclosed by voluntary scheme only after the FIR had been
registered and charge sheet had in fact been filed in the court.
The accused S.P. Goel and Beena Goel are as such convicted u/s
420 / 511 IPC. The certificates under Foreign Exchange (Immunities)
Scheme, 1991 purportedly create right to claim exemption from
levy of income tax and also immunities from any enquiry into the
remittances represented and as such are documents in the nature
of valuable securities within the meaning of section 30 IPC. The
said certificates were forged for purpose of cheating by the bank
officials and the knowledge of the fact that they were forged is
also imputed to the accused. The certificates were obtained by
accused by depositing the corresponding amount and the demand
drafts representing foreign remittances were also deposited by
accused in their respective accounts. The same clearly
demonstrates that the certificates were intended to be used
dishonestly by the accused as genuine, as the income
corresponding to the amount reflected in the certificates was not CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 53 of 59 disclosed for the relevant assessment years and was only
disclosed by voluntary disclosure in the year 1998. In view of
above, both the accused S. P. Goel and Beena Goel are also
liable to be convicted u/s 474 IPC. 20. In the facts and circumstance, prosecution has brought
home charge against accused S. P. Goel and Beena Goel beyond
reasonable doubt. Both the accused are accordingly convicted
u/s 120B r/w Section 420 , 471 / 474 IPC & u/s 13(1)(d) r/w Section
13(2) of PC Act, 1988. Both the accused are also convicted u/s
420 / 511 and 474 IPC. Accused Pawan Sain Jain is acquitted as
already observed in the preceding paragraphs. SPECIAL JUDGE (PC ACT), CBI-08, CENTRAL DISTRICT,
 TIS HAZARI COURTS, DELHI. 1. Accused S. P. Goel and Beena Goel who are related as
husband and wife have been convicted vide judgment dated
18.02.2012 u/s 120B r/w ( Section 420 , 471 / 474 IPC & Section 13(1) (d) r/w Section 13(2) of PC Act, 1988). Both the accused are also
convicted u/s 420 r/w 511 and 474 IPC . The accused entered into a criminal conspiracy alongwith bank CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 55 of 59 officials of Daryaganj Branch of Central Bank of India whereby Indian
currency was deposited in two fake/fictitious accounts and
subsequently certificates procured under the "Remittance under the
Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme, 1991" to falsely reflect that
the same were proceeds of foreign exchange for claiming Income
Tax exemptions. As such, an attempt was made to convert black
money into white. 2. It may be pointed out that the case investigated on the basis
of FIR registered on 31.03.1992, resulted in 13 accused being
charge-sheeted as reflected in the memo of parties in the
judgement. Accused Ajay Kumar Gupta (A-6), Satish Kumar
Gupta (A-7), V. K. Khanna (A-10), Mukesh Gulati (A-11),
Mahender Singh (A-12) and Arun Kumar Gupta (A-13) were
charged u/s 120B IPC r/w Section 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC & Section 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) of PC Act, 1988 as well as u/s 474 IPC.
Accused V. K. Khanna (A-10) and Mukesh Gulati (A-11) were
also charged u/s 420 r/w 511 IPC . The aforesaid six accused
pleaded guilty at the stage of charge and were convicted and
sentenced vide order dated 05.03.2002 by the then Special Judge,
Delhi. Further, considering the fact that the accused who had
pleaded guilty could not derive any pecuniary advantage and the
protracted proceedings, accused were sentenced to TRC and fine of
Rs.50,000/- on each count. The trial, as such proceeded against the remaining
accused. Out of the same, A-1 Jagdish Kumar Jain (public
servant), A-2 Satish Kumar Jain and A-5 Jaydev Tyagi (public
servant) expired during the course of trial and as such the CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 56 of 59 proceedings against them stand abated. A-3 Y. P. Tara
absconded during the course of proceedings. The effective trial, as such has remained against the
remaining three accused A-4 Pawan Sain Jain (public servant),
A-8 S. P. Goel and A-9 Beena Goel. A-4 Pawan Sain Jain who
was posted as Clerk in the Central Bank of India, Daryaganj
Branch was acquitted vide judgement dated 18.02.2012 while
A-8 S. P. Goel and A-9 Beena Goel stand convicted under
various Sections as reflected in preceding paragraph. 3. I have heard ld. PP for CBI & accused on point of sentence.
Counsel for accused contended that lenient view be taken since
accused Beena Goel is a lady and has been undertaking treatment
for cancer. It is also urged that accused Beena Goel being a
housewife was not actively participating in the business carried by
her husband and the transactions carried on her behalf were not to
her knowledge. Similarly, it is contended on behalf of accused S. P.
Goel that the accused is above 60 years and has faced protracted
trial for about two decades since the FIR was registered far back in
1992. It is further contended that the amount remitted under the
Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme, 1991 has already been
declared under the voluntary disclosure scheme and as such no
benefit has accrued to accused. In view of above, it is prayed that a
lenient view be taken against both the accused and they be released
on probation. In the alternative, it is contended that the case of S. P.
Goel and Beena Goel is analogous with other convicts Ajay Kumar
Gupta (A-6), Satish Kumar Gupta (A-7), V. K. Khanna (A-10),
Mukesh Gulati (A-11), Mahender Singh (A-12) and Arun Kumar CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 57 of 59 Gupta (A-13) who were sentenced to TRC and fine at the stage of
charge on their pleading guilty by the then ld. Predecessor and as
such the accused be sentenced to fine. On the other hand, ld. PP for CBI contends that a deterrent
sentence be passed. 4. The case should be an eye opener to those who stash
unaccounted money and make a futile effort to seek tax
exemptions under the delusion that law is unlikely to catch up.
The case bringing unholy nexus to an end, is only a tip of the
iceberg, as the same was detected on source information by
CBI while many such instances may be unchecked and need to
be appropriately probed. The case also brings to light the gaps
exploited by those responsible for execution of the
Remittances under the Foreign Exchange (Immunities) Scheme,
1991. I am of the considered view that those who indulge or
seek unlawful benefit under the scheme by fraudulent means,
do not deserve the benefit of probation as the evasion to pay
the due taxes prevents the nation to undertake many tasks that
are in public interest. The punishment has to be commensurate
to prevent similar frauds in future. It also needs to be noticed
that if the machinery for execution of such schemes is weak or
motivated to look the other way, the State would never be able
to generate the revenue. As such, the RBI needs to ensure that
Banks entrusted to implement said schemes, place necessary
check and plug the gap holes and also monitor the
implementation of the schemes in the right earnest. Also there CC No. 103/11CBI Vs. Jagdish Kumar Jain & Ors. Page 58 of 59 is a need to formulate appropriate guidelines by the Governor,
RBI to be followed by all the Banks executing the said scheme
which may work as bench mark to check the commission of
similar frauds. A copy of judgment and order be accordingly
forwarded to the Governor, RBI and CEO/Managing Director,
Central Bank of India for compliance. 5. The case of the accused S. P. Goel and Beena Goel is at
parity and analogous to the other convicts who were sentenced to
TRC and fine by the then ld. Predecessor on their pleading guilty.
Considering the fact that the convicts have faced protracted
proceedings for about two decades and had finally disclosed the
income, it would be proper and befitting to impose the sentence of
TRC with fine of Rs.50,000/- on each count on both the accused. In
default of payment of fine, the accused shall undergo SI for three
months on each count. The total fine amount which each accused is
required to pay on different counts is Rs.1,50,000/- each. Copy of
judgement alongwith order on sentence be provided to convicts, free
of cost. Bail bonds of the convicts are forfeited.