The State filed the present appeal against the

Judgment and Order of acquittal dated 20.09.2014 made in

S.C. No.819/2007 on the file of the City Fast Track

(Sessions) Judge, FTC-VI, Bangalore City acquitting the

sole accused for the offence punishable under Section 307 of IPC. I. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE 2. It is the case of the prosecution that the marriage

of the accused with N.V. Bharathi (sister of PW.6 -

Anuradha and sister-in-law of PW.5, injured) was performed

on 1.11.2006. After the marriage, on the intervening night 3 of 1/2-11.2006 at about 1.00 a.m. when all the family

members were sleeping in the 1st floor house of Krishnappa

building, Link Road, Chinnappa garden, Bangalore, the

accused who was sleeping in another room of the said

house, made an attempt to commit murder of PW.5 -

Nagaraj by assaulting with knife - MO.1 on his neck, chest

and cheek and caused grievous bleeding injuries,

suspecting that he had an illicit relationship with his wife -

Bharathi. The jurisdictional Police registered a case in

Crime No.228/2006 against the accused for the offence

punishable under Section 324 of IPC. After investigation,

the jurisdictional Police filed the final report for the offences

punishable under Sections 324 and 307 of IPC. The

learned Magistrate has committed the case to the Court of

Sessions. The learned Sessions Judge framed the charge

on 16.7.2008 for the offence punishable under Section 307 of IPC and read over to the accused. The accused pleaded

not guilty and claimed to be tried. 3. In order to prove the guilt of the accused, the

prosecution, in all, examined 17 witnesses as per PWs.1 to

17 and got marked the documents - Ex.P1 to Ex.P9 and the

material objects - Mos.1 to 9. On behalf of the defence,

Dr. Kasthuri was examined as DW.1 and got marked the

documents - Ex.D1 to Ex.D4. 4. After completion of evidence on behalf of the

prosecution, the statement of the accused was recorded as

contemplated under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. The accused denied all the incriminating

evidence adduced against him and also the case set up by

the prosecution. 5. On 8.7.2014, the accused got examined Dr.

Kasturi, Assistant Professor and Psychiatrist working at

Victoria Hospital as DW.1 and got marked the documents -

Ex.D1 to Ex.D4. 6. Based on the aforesaid pleadings, the trial Court

framed the point for consideration and after considering

both oral and documentary evidence, the trial Court

recorded a finding that the prosecution failed to prove that

on 1/2.11.2006 at about 1.00 a.m. when all the family

members were sleeping in the 1st floor house, the accused

made an attempt to commit the murder of PW.5 -

Nagaraja by assaulting with knife on his neck, chest and

cheek and caused grievous bleeding injuries, suspecting

that PW.5 had illicit relationship with his wife - Smt. N.V.

Bharathi and thereby failed to prove that the accused

committed the offence punishable under Section 307 of IPC.

Accordingly, the learned Sessions Judge by the impugned

Judgment and order of acquittal, acquitted the accused for

the offence punishable under Section 307 of IPC. Hence,

the present appeal filed by the State. 7. Inspite of the repeated notices issued, the

respondent is not served as can be seen from the order 6 sheet of this Court. Considering the Police report dated

9.8.2019, this Court by the order dated 16.9.2019

appointed Sri R.Ganesh Kumar, as an Amicus Curiae to

assist the Court. When the matter was posted on

15.9.2020, he was not present and his name not found in

the list of Panel Advocates for criminal matters furnished by

High Court Legal Services Committee. Therefore, on that

day this Court appointed Smt. P.V. Kalpana, learned

counsel as Amicus Curiae in place of Sri R. Ganesh Kumar,

to assist the Court. 8. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.

 II. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE LEARNED ADDL. SPP
 FOR THE APPELLANT - STATE 9. Sri Vijaya Kumar Majage, learned Addl. SPP

contended that the impugned Judgment and order of

acquittal passed by the trial Court acquitting the accused

for the offence punishable under Section 307 of IPC, is 7 without any basis and liable to be set aside. He further

contended that the learned Sessions Judge has not

considered the fact that no medical records relating to

earlier to the incident are produced to show that accused

was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia and also not

produced the certified copies of the medical documents and

only xerox copies are produced at the time of arguments to

prove that the accused was suffering from mental disorder.

Therefore, the impugned judgment and order of acquittal

cannot be sustained and the accused has to be convicted

for the alleged offence. The learned Addl. SPP further

contended that after the incident, the wife of the accused

filed Matrimonial Case No.2771/2006 for divorce under Section 12(1)(c) of the Hindu Marriage Act, wherein the

wife has taken a contention that the marriage was

performed without her consent and the accused - husband

was suffering from mental illness and the said Matrimonial

Case came to be decreed on 4.3.2008. Against the said 8 judgment and Decree of the Family Court, the accused filed

MFA No.7683/2008 before this Court contending that he

was very fit among other grounds. This clearly indicates

that the learned Sessions Judge was not justified in

acquitting the accused on the ground of mental illness or

disorder. 10. The learned Addl. SPP further contended that the

learned Sessions Judge has not evaluated and appreciated

the evidence of PW.5, injured eye witness who explained as

to how the incident happened. The learned Sessions Judge

has not evaluated the evidence of PWs.3 and 4, the

material witnesses whose evidence corroborated with the

evidence of PW.5. The learned Sessions Judge has also

not evaluated the evidence of PW.6 (wife of PW.5) though

she is an eye witness to the incident so also the evidence of

PWs.7 and 8, the eye witnesses and relatives of the injured

and the same has been ignored. The said evidence depicts

that the accused had made an attempt to murder PW.5 with 9 MO.1. The said aspect of the matter has not been

considered. He would further contend that the learned

Sessions Judge has not considered the evidence of PWs.11

to 16, who being the official witnesses, have played vital

role in conducting investigation and clearly prove beyond

reasonable doubt that the accused involved in the attempt

of murder of PW.5 as per the charge made against him.

He would further contend that the learned Sessions Judge

proceeded to acquit the accused only on the basis of

assumptions and presumptions without any material on

record that the accused was suffering from mental disorder

before his marriage and accused has not discharged the

initial burden that he was suffering from paranoid

schizophrenia. Therefore, he sought to allow the appeal.

 III. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY SMT. KALPANA, LEARNED
 AMICUS CURIAE 11. Smt. Kalpana, learned Amicus Curiae while

justifying the impugned judgment of acquittal, has 10 contended that the medical certificate produced and the

evidence of DW.1 - Dr. Kasturi clearly indicate that the

accused was taking treatment from psychiatrist even prior

to the incident. The said fact has not been denied by the

prosecution. In the medical report produced before the

Court in Criminal Misc. 3768/2006 while seeking bail in the

year 2006, the accused has taken specific contention of

plea of insanity and unsoundness of mind as per Section 84 of the Indian Penal Code and same was accepted and bail

was granted and the same has reached finality. 12. The learned amicus curiae further contended that

when MO.1 - knife alleged to have been used by the

accused on PW.5 was shown to PW.5 in his evidence, after

seeing the said MO.1, he has stated before the Court that

MO.1 is not the knife which was used for commission of the

offence by the accused as alleged. 13. The learned amicus curiae would contend that as

per the contents of Ex.P3 - complaint, the complainant

(PW.7) has given the complaint before the Police on

1/2.11.2006 at 3.30 a.m, but in the examination-in-chief,

PW.7 has stated that on the next day of the incident, he

has gone to the Police Station at 8 to 8.30 a.m. and given

the complaint as per Ex.P3. This shows that there are

contradictions and omissions in the evidence of the

complainant (PW.7) with respect to the time at which

complaint said to have been given. That is one of the

circumstance to doubt the case of the prosecution. 14. The learned amicus curiae further contended that

admittedly Smt. N.V. Bharathi w/o accused has not been

examined. She would further contend that Smt. N.V.

Bharathi filed Matrimonial Case No.2771/2006 for divorce

under Section 12(1)(c) of the Hindu Marriage Act on the

ground that her marriage was performed without her

consent by playing fraud and further that accused was 12 suffering from mental disorder and accordingly, decree

came to be passed on 4.3.2008 declaring the marriage

between the accused and N.V. Bharathi as null and void.

Though MFA No.7683/2008 filed by the accused came to be

dismissed by this Court on 3.2.2009, the finding recorded

by the Family Court that the accused was suffering from

mental disorder or mental illness, is confirmed by this

Court on the civil side and the same is binding on the

criminal side. 15. She further contended that PW.1 - Dr. P.N.

Prakash has deposed with respect to treatment given by

him to the injured (PW.5) and PW.2 - Dr. S.K. Supreeth

has deposed with regard to condition of the patient (PW.5)

and the permission given by her to the Police to record his

statement in the hospital. She further contended that the

Wound Certificate - Ex.P1 clearly depicts that the injury

No.1 is grievous and injury Nos.2 to 8 are simple in nature. 13 16. In view of the above, she submits that at the

time of commission of crime, the accused was incapable of

knowing the nature of the act by reason of unsoundness of

mind and therefore, he is entitled to the benefit of Section

84 of IPC and sought to dismiss the appeal. IV. POINT FOR CONSIDERATION 17. In view of the rival contentions urged by the

learned counsel for the parties, the only point that would

arise for our consideration in the present appeal is: 18. We have given our anxious consideration to the

arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties 14 and perused the entire material including the original

records carefully. V. EVIDENCE OF THE PROSECUTION WITNESSES
 AND THE DOCUMENTS RELIED UPON 19. In order to re-appreciate both the oral and

documentary evidence on record, it is relevant to consider

the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and the

documents relied upon: 20 . Based on the aforesaid material documents, the

learned Sessions Judge held that the prosecution failed to

prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused involved in

the attempt to murder of PW.5 and further recorded a

finding that the records produced by the accused clearly

depict that he was taking treatment from Anu Neuro

Psychiatric Clinic, Hyderabad prior to the incident and the

same was not denied by the prosecution. The medical

records produced by the accused before the Fast Track

Court - X, Bengaluru, when he filed application for bail

depicts that he took treatment from psychiatrists prior to

the incident and thus from the beginning itself, the accused 19 has taken the plea of insanity or unsoundness of mind as

contemplated under Section 84 of IPC. 21. The trial Court further recorded a finding that the

wife of the accused viz., Smt. Bharathi has filed Matrimonial

Case No.2771/2006 under Section 12(1)(c) of the Hindu

Marriage Act contending that her marriage was performed

without her consent by playing fraud and the accused was

suffering from mental illness prior to the marriage etc.,

Ultimately, the said petition came to be allowed and

granted decree of divorce on 4.3.2008 and the same was

affirmed by this Court in MFA No.7683/2008 by the

Judgment 3.2.2009. Therefore, the finding recorded by

the Family Court that the accused was suffering from

mental illness prior to the marriage, is confirmed by this

Court on the civil side and the same is binding on the

criminal side. 22. The trial Court further recorded a finding that as

per the contents of Ex.P3 - complaint, the complainant

(PW.7) has given the complaint before the Police on 1/2-

11.2006 at 3.30 a.m., but in the examination-in-chief PW.7

has stated that on the next day of the incident, he has gone

to the Police Station at 8 or 8.30 a.m. and given the

complaint and thus there are contradictions and omissions

in the evidence of PW.7. Further, the injured person

(PW.5) has denied the use of MO.1 - knife by the accused

for commission of the offence. 23. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the

trial Court considering that at the time of commission of the

offence, the accused was incapable of knowing the nature

of the act by reason of unsoundness of mind, held that the

accused is entitled to the benefit of section 84 of IPC and

accordingly acquitted the accused for the charges leveled

against him. VII. CONSIDERATION 24. On careful re-appreciation of the entire oral and

documentary evidence on record, it clearly depicts that the

marriage between Bharathi and the accused took place on

1.11.2006 and the incident happened on the intervening

night of 1/2.11.2006 at about 1-00 a.m. It is the case of

the prosecution that on the 1st day of the marriage i.e.,

1.11.2006, somebody sent a message to the mobile of the

accused and therefore, the accused attacked PW.5 in the

night. Admittedly, the mobile phones of the accused as

well as the person, who sent the message to the accused,

have not been seized and not produced any call details with

regard to the conversation. It is further case of the

prosecution that PWs.3, 4,6,7,8 and 9 are said to be the

eye witnesses to the incident occurred on the intervening

night of 1/2.11.2006 at about 1.00 a.m. Admittedly, PWs.5

and 6 are relatives of the said witnesses. It is PW.5 who

arranged the marriage between the accused and Smt. N.V. 22 Bharathi (sister of PW.6 and sister-in-law of PW.5). The

theory putforth by the prosecution that merely because he

received some information on 1.11.2006, he attacked PW.5

on the same night at 1.00 a.m., is unimaginable. The

record also depicts that it is PW.5 who persuaded the

accused to marry N.V. Bharathi. Admittedly, the wife of the

accused i.e., Bharathi has not been examined. It is the

specific case of the accused that he was suffering from

paranoid schizophrenia, a major mental disorder even prior

to the marriage and knowing fully well, PWs.3 and 4 (father

and mother of Bharathi) performed the marriage of their

daughter with him. 25. After examination of the accused, DW.1 - Dr.

Kasturi has stated that the accused is suffering from

Hallucination and delusion and he is not in a position to

think himself. Further, she has stated that she has treated

the accused from 2010 to 2012 and identified the medical

certificates issued by her as per Ex.D1 to Ex.D3. In the 23 medical certificate - Ex.D2, it has been stated that she

examined the accused and come to the conclusion that the

said patient exhibits the following signs and symptoms of

psychiatric disorder: 26. It is also not in dispute that when the accused

applied for bail in Criminal Misc. No.3768/2006, he

contended in the bail petition that he is a psychiatric

patient and he was not knowing the nature of the act what

he was doing and he was under medication for his mental

illness. It is also not in dispute that the wife of the

accused filed the petition for divorce under Section 12(1)(c) 24 of the Hindu Marriage Act on the ground that the marriage

between her and the accused was performed without her

consent by playing fraud and she further stated that the

accused was suffering from mental disorder and ultimately

Matrimonial Case filed for divorce came to be decreed and

affirmed by this Court on 3.2.2009 in the MFA

No.7683/2008 filed by the accused. 27. The material on record clearly depicts that the

accused has taken treatment from 2006 to 2008 in a

private clinic and consultant psychiatrist at Hyderabad.

The learned Sessions Judge recorded a finding that it is

seen from the medical records that on 20.4.2006 i.e., prior

to the date of the incident, the accused had taken

treatment at Anu Psychiatric Clinic and Anu Research

Institute of Psychotherapy, Hyderabad for the mental illness

and in the said medical document, it is mentioned that

there is a suspicion on friends that they are trying to kill

him. The concerned doctor has noted other proceedings 25 and findings after examining the accused. The accused has

also taken treatment on 26.4.2006, 15.5.2006, 18.1.2007,

1.6.2007, 11.1.2008, 10.10.2008 and 10.6.2009 from the

psychiatrist of Anu Neuro Psychiatric clinic, Hyderabad,

which clearly depicts that the treatment was taken before

and after the incident continuously. 28. It is the case of the prosecution that on the 1st

day of marriage, somebody sent a message to the mobile of

the accused that PW.5 had an illicit relationship with

Smt.Bharathi (wife of the accused) and due to the said

reason, accused had suspicion in his mind to that effect and

in view of the same, he attacked PW.5 on the date of the

incident and attempted to kill him with knife, which cannot

be accepted. Admittedly, the prosecution has not seized

the mobiles of the accused and the person who has sent

message to the accused nor collected the call details. PW.3

has simply stated that he came to know that the accused

has received a phone call and for that reason, he assaulted 26 PW.5. The same is the evidence of PWs.3,4 and 6. But,

the said three witnesses have not stated in their evidence

to the effect that on the 1st day of the marriage, somebody

sent message to the mobile of the accused that PW.5 had

an illicit relationship with Bharathi (wife of the accused) and

due to that reason, the accused had suspicion in his mind

and in view of the same, he attacked PW.5 in the night and

attempted to kill him with knife. Therefore, it creates a

doubt in the mind of the Court with regard to the bonafides

of the case of the prosecution. PW.5 in his evidence has

stated that after enquiry, he came to know that somebody

have told to the accused through phone that he (PW.5) had

illicit relationship with Bharathi and due to that reason, the

accused attacked him. But, he has given statement before

the Police on 3.11.2006 that somebody have sent message

to the mobile phone of the accused and by believing the

said message, the accused assaulted him on the date of the

incident with knife. But, PW.5 has not stated in his 27 evidence to that effect. There is inconsistency in the

evidence of PWs.3,4,6 and PW.5 and there is no sufficient

material to prove that the accused has attacked PW.5 on

the information messaged to his mobile phone by

somebody and further, Bharathi w/o accused has not been

examined by the prosecution. This is one of the

reasonable circumstances that creates doubt in the mind of

the Court to believe the case of the prosecution. 29. According to the prosecution, as a customary

manner at the time of the marriage, the bridegroom was

given a knife and accordingly in the said marriage, MO.1 -

knife was given to the accused (bridegroom) by the parents

of the bride and by using the said knife, he attacked and

made an attempt to kill PW.5. But in the evidence of

PW.5 when MO.1 - knife was shown to him, he has stated

that MO.1 is not the knife which was used for commission

of the offence by the accused. This clearly indicates that

the injured has not identified the knife used for commission 28 of the offence. This is also one of the circumstance to

doubt the case of the prosecution. 30. PW.7, who is the complainant stated in Ex.P3 -

complaint that he has made a statement before the Police

on 1/2-11.2006 at about 3.30 a.m. But in the

examination-in-chief, he has stated that on the next day of

the incident, he had gone to the Police Station at 8 or 8.30

and given the complaint and thereafter the Police came to

the house of PW.3 and prepared the mahazar. By careful

reading of the statement made before the Police as per the

complaint and the statement recorded before the Court,

there are contradictions and omissions in the evidence of

PW.7. 31. Ex.P4 is the seizure mahazar drawn by PW.4 -

PSI at the spot. Under the said mahazar, PW.4 seized

articles - Mos.1 to 3 in presence of PW.9 (panch witness).

PW.9, who is the panch witness, has stated with regard to 29 mahazar - Ex.P4 prepared by the Police at the spot and

seizure of MOs.1 to 3 under the said mahazar. PW.7 also

stated with regard to Ex.P4 - mahazar drawn by the police

and seizure of MOs.1 to 3 under the said mahazar. But,

the injured person - PW.5 after seeing MO.1 - knife before

the Court has stated that the said knife is not the weapon

which was used for commission of the offence by the

accused. Therefore, it creates doubt in the mind of the

Court as to whether the Police have seized the weapon used

for commission of the offence. In view of the same, it is

difficult to accept the versions of PWs.7 and 9 to prove the

contents of Ex.P4 - mahazar and seizure of knife under the

said mahazar. Thereby, the prosecution has failed to prove

the seizure of actual weapon that was used for commission

of the offence by the accused as alleged. 32. In so far as the oral evidence of other witnesses

i.e., PW.1 - Dr. Prakash has deposed with regard to the

treatment given by him to the injured PW.5; PW.2 - Dr. 30 S.K. Supreeth has deposed with regard to condition of PW.5

and permission given by her to the Police to record the

statement of PW.5 in the hospital; PW.10 - photographer

has deposed with regard to the photos clicked by him at the

place of incident as per the request of Police; PW.11 -

Police Constable has deposed with respect to handing over

three sealed covers to FSL ; and PW.12 - PSI has deposed

with regard to receipt of complaint from PW.7 and

registration of the case. Thus, on the basis of oral

evidence of these witnesses, it is difficult to believe the

case of the prosecution. 33. By careful re-appreciation of the entire material on

record, it clearly depicts that an inference can be drawn

that the accused was under unsoundness of mind at the

time of the incident. Having regard to the nature of burden

on the accused, this Court is of the considered opinion that

the accused has proved the existence of circumstances as

required under Section 105 of the Indian Evidence Act so as 31 to get the benefit of Section 84 of IPC. On re-appreciation

of the entire oral and documentary evidence on record, it

clearly depicts that at the time of commission of the crime,

the accused was incapable of knowing the nature of act by

reason of unsoundness of mind and thus, he is entitled to

the benefit of the provisions of Section 84 of IPC. 34. Our view is fortified by the dictum of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of STATE OF RAJASTHAN -vs-

SHERA RAM reported in (2012)1 SCC 602, wherein the

Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the provisions of Section 84 of the Indian Penal Code, held at paragraphs

16, 17, 20 to 27 as under: It is obvious from a bare reading of this provision
that what may be generally an offence would not be
so if the ingredients of Section 84 IPC are satisfied.
It is an exception to the general rule. Thus, a person
who is proved to have committed an offence, would
not be deemed guilty, if he falls in any of the general
exceptions stated under this Chapter 17. To commit a criminal offence, mens rea is
generally taken to be an essential element of crime.
It is said furiosus nulla voluntas est. In other words,
a person who is suffering from a mental disorder
cannot be said to have committed a crime as he
does not know what he is doing. For committing a
crime, the intention and act both are taken to be the
constituents of the crime, actus non facit reum nisi
mens sit rea. Every normal and sane human being is
expected to possess some degree of reason to be
responsible for his/her conduct and acts unless
contrary is proved. But a person of unsound mind or
a person suffering from mental disorder cannot be
said to possess this basic norm of human behaviour. 20. Epileptic psychosis is a progressing disease and
its effects have appropriately been described in the 33 textbook of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology by
Modi, 24th Edn., 2011 where it states as follows: 21. Similar features of epilepsy have been recorded
in HWV Cox's Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology
(7th Edn.) by P.C. Dikshit. 22. Reverting to the facts of the present case, it may
be noted that no witness of the prosecution including
the investigating officer stated anything with regard
to the mental condition of the respondent. However,
the respondent not only in his statement under Section 313 CrPC took up the defence of mental
disorder seeking benefit of Section 84 IPC but even
led evidence, both documentary as well as oral, in
support of his claim. 23. The respondent examined Dr. Vimal Kumar
Razdan, DW 2, who deposed that he had examined
the respondent and had given him treatment. He
also produced the examination report in regard to
the treatment of the respondent, Ext. D-5, which
was prepared in his clinic. According to the
statement of the doctor and the prescription, the
respondent was suffering from epilepsy and while
describing post-epileptic insanity, this witness stated 36 that after the epileptic attack, a patient behaves like
an insane person and he is unable to recognise even
the known persons and relatives. During this time,
there is a memory loss and the patient can commit
any offence. 24. In the prescription, Ext. D-3, issued by Dr. Ashok
Pagadiya, it was stated that the patient was suffering
from the fits disease and symptoms of behavioural
abnormality. Two types of medication on the basis of
diagnosis of epileptic disease and other one for
insanity were prescribed to the respondent who
continued to take these medicines, post-epileptic
insanity. 25. Another witness who was produced by the
defence was DW 1, Bhanwar Lal, the brother of the
respondent. According to this witness, the
respondent was suffering from mental disorder since
1993. He stated that when he gets the fits of
insanity, he can fight with anybody, hit anybody and
even throw articles lying around him. At the initial
stage, Dr. Devraj Purohit had treated him. Then Dr.
V.K. Razdan treated him and thereafter, in Jaipur,
Dr. Ashok Pagadiya/Pandharia also treated him. Even
when he was in jail, he was under treatment. He
produced the prescription slips i.e. Exts. D-3 and D- 37 4. This witness has also stated that on the date of
occurrence at about 6.00-6.30 a.m., Shera Ram, the
respondent, was not feeling well and, in fact, his
condition was not good. Even at home he had broken
the electricity meter and the bulbs. When the people
at home including the witness tried to stop him, he
had beaten DW 1 on his arm and after hitting him on
the face he had run away. 26. This oral and documentary evidence clearly
shows that the respondent was suffering from
epileptic attacks just prior to the incident.
Immediately prior to the occurrence, he had behaved
violently and had caused injuries to his own family
members. After committing the crime, he was
arrested by the police and even thereafter, he was
treated for insanity, while in jail. 27. Thus, there is evidence to show continuous
mental sickness of the respondent. He not only
caused death of the deceased but also on the very
same day injured and caused hurt to his family
members including DW 1. His statement made under Section 313 CrPC is fully corroborated by the oral
and documentary evidence of DW 2 and Exts. D-3
and D-4. Though the High Court has not discussed
this evidence in great detail, but this being an 38 admissible piece of evidence, can always be relied
 upon to substantiate the conclusion and findings
 recorded by the High Court." 35. As stated supra, the wife of the accused -

Bharathi has filed Matrimonial Case No.2771/2006 before

the Family Court under the provisions of Section 12(1)(c) of

the Act on the ground that the marriage was performed

without her consent by playing fraud and that the accused

was suffering from mental illness. Admittedly, the said

Matrimonial Case No.2771/2006 came to be decreed on

4.3.2008 on the ground of mental illness of the accused

before and after the marriage. Though an appeal came to

be filed before this Court in MFA No.7683/2008, this Court

dismissed the said MFA on 3.2.2009, which clearly depicts

that the finding recorded by the Family Court that the

present accused was suffering from mental illness before

and after marriage, is confirmed on the civil side. The

same is binding on the criminal Court as rightly held by the 39 learned Sessions Judge in the impugned Judgment and

order of acquittal. 36. Our view is fortified by the dictum of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of M/s Karamchand Ganga

Pershad and another -vs- Union of India and others

reported in AIR 1971 SC 1244, wherein the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held at paragraph-4 as under: 37. It is not in dispute that PW.5 arranged the

marriage between the accused and Bharathi, who is none

other than his sister-in-law on 1.11.2006. Admittedly

though the accused was charged under the provisions of Section 307 of IPC, the prosecution failed to prove beyond

reasonable doubt the motive of the accused to attack PW.5 41 on 1/2.11.2006 at 1.00 a.m. Admittedly, the injured PW.5

has denied before the Court that MO.1 - knife was used by

the accused on the date of the incident for commission of

the offence and the material documents clearly prove that

the accused was suffering from unsoundness of mind before

the incident and after the incident and he did not have

necessary mens rea for commission of the offence on the

date of the alleged offence. Therefore, he is entitled to the

benefit under Section 84 of IPC and the learned Sessions

Judge has rightly acquitted the accused for the offence

under Section 307 of IPC. 38. Our view is also fortified by the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Punjab -

vs- Mohinder Singh reported in (1983)2 SCC 274, wherein

the Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the provisions

of Section 84 of IPC, held as under: 39. The scope of the appeal filed by the State against

the Judgment of acquittal is very limited and unless this

Court while considering the material on record finds that 43 findings of the learned Sessions Judge are perverse, this

Court cannot interfere with the judgment of acquittal. In

the present case, the findings recorded, the reasons

assigned and the conclusion arrived at by the trial Court are

sound and proper. On re-appreciation of the entire oral and

documentary evidence on record and in the light of the

principles enunciated in the dictums of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court stated supra, we do not find any ground to interfere

with the well crafted judgment of acquittal passed by the

trial Court. The appeal filed by the State is devoid of

merits. VIII. CONCLUSION 40. For the reasons stated above, the point raised in

the present appeal is answered in the negative holding that

the prosecution has not made out a case to interfere with

the impugned judgment and order of acquittal, exercising

the powers under the provisions of Sections 378(1) and (3) 44 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , in the facts and

circumstances of the case. 41. Accordingly, the appeal filed by the State is

dismissed. 42. We place on record the valuable assistance

rendered by Smt. P.V. Kalpana, learned amicus curiae. In

token thereof, we direct the High Court Legal Services

Committee to pay a sum of Rs.8,000/- (Rupees eight

thousand only) as honorarium to the learned amicus curiae. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/-