Prathiba M. Singh, J. 1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The present two appeals have been filed by Hina Bashir Beigh (A-2)
 and Sadiya Anwar Shaikh (A-4) seeking reduction of their respective
 sentences imposed by the ld. ASJ-3, NDD, Patiala House Courts, New Delhi
 vide the order on sentence dated 6th May, 2024. BRIEF BACKGROUND 3. A First Information Report (hereinafter 'FIR') bearing no. 85/2020 was
 registered by the Special Cell against accused no. 1('A-1') and accused no. 2
 ('A-2') upon which they were arrested on 8th March, 2020. The allegation
 was that they were affiliated with the proscribed terrorist organisation Islamic
 State Khorasan Province (hereinafter 'ISKP'). The said ISKP is stated to be a
 part of the ISIS. The FIR alleged that they were carrying out anti-national
 activities in India. 4. Based on the disclosures made by A-2 upon arrest, certain materials
 such as an incriminating anti-nationalist magazine named 'Voice of Hind'
 etc., were seized from the house and car of A-2 in support of the above-
 mentioned allegations. The disclosure also led to the arrest of accused no. 3
 ('A-3'), on 17th March, 2020. In the meantime, the Ministry of Home Affairs
 (MHA) issued an order on 8th March, 2020 entrusting the said investigation
 to the National Investigation Agency (hereinafter 'N.I.A') and the latter
 registered RC.no-11/2020/NIA/DLI. 5. In the said Registered Case (hereinafter 'RC'), among other allegations,
 the specific allegations against accused A-2 were of propagating/circulating
 objectionable ISIS materials which were used in the anti-CAA protests for
 inciting Muslims to take up violence in the name of jihad and spreading hatred
 against Non-Muslims. Further, as per the RC, the accused created several
 anonymous IDs on social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook,
 Telegram, Instagram, Threema etc with the intention of concealing their
 identity while engaging in the above-mentioned anti-national activities. The
 RC also alleged that they had conspired with various persons from ISIS and
 ISKP to carry out terrorist activities in India to spread terror and to propagate
 their ideology. During the investigation further arrests were made of A-
 4/Appellant -Sadiya Anwar Shaikh and A-5. Seizure of further electronic
 evidence including pen drive, hard drive, phones, sim cards and other
 documents was made. A-3, A-4 & A-5 were also found to have created fake
 and anonymous IDs on social media platforms like A-1 and A-2. 6. Upon completion of the said investigations, the chargesheet was filed
 u/s 120B/124A, 153A, 201 of Indian Penal Code (hereinafter ' IPC ')
 13/18/38/39 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (hereinafter 'UAPA') on
 28th July, 2023. Further, a supplementary chargesheet was filed by the N.I.A
 where A-6 Abdul Rehman@ Dr Brave, an MBBS student, was also arrayed
 as an accused. He was alleged to have come into contact with A-1 and had
 made plans to go to Syria via Turkey to join ISIS. The overall allegations in
 the chargesheet concerning A-2 and A-4 are as under - • They were allegedly affiliated with the proscribed terrorist organisation
 i.e., ISKP; • They had allegedly entered into a conspiracy to propagate the ideology Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 3 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 of ISIS and ISKP, and to excite disaffection towards the Government
 of India and that such actions of the accused were meant to threaten the
 unity, integrity and sovereignty of India; • A-2 along with A-1 and A-5 had allegedly executed a preparatory/trial
 blast at their rented accommodation in Pune; • A-3 had allegedly asked for suicide jackets from A-1.
 Subsequently, upon taking cognizance, the learned ASJ passed the order on
 charge dated 28th July, 2024. Role of Jahanzaib Sami (A-1) 7. Though the present two appeals are concerned with A-2 and A-4, A-1
 is the primary accused in the case as also the husband of A-2. The electronic
 devices which were found were commonly used by A-1 and A-2. Thus, the
 charges against A-1 would also be relevant for the present purposes of
 discussion. In the order of charge, insofar as A-1 is concerned, the Trial Court
 discussed the role of A-1 as under: • A-1 has been in continuous touch with the other co-accused and he is also
 discussing motivating Muslim youth to join ISIS;
 • A-1 also had chats with one Hammad @ Abu Usman Al Kashmiri who
 was based in Afghanistan and was made chief of ISKP after the killing of
 the earlier chief, Huzaifa al Bakistani; • A-1 was also in touch with the entity called 'Caged Pearls' residing in
 Syria. 7.2 Conspiracy to hatch terrorist activities and execution of other illegal
 activities
 • The chats from A-1's mobile showed conscious efforts and acts were
 being contemplated for executing terrorist activities at different places
 including at RSS Sakha in Nasik, Pune and Khandwa. There were
 exchanges of messages and videos with an entity by the name of Abu
 Hindi who had instructed A-1 to collect various materials required for
 preparing IED/explosives substances; • Chats were also found between A-1 and A-4 where A-4 was found
 inquiring from A-1 about someone who could supply suicide jackets
 which were required in Pune. A-4 also informed A-1 that she had
 connections with different terrorist organisations AGH, AQ and
 individual terrorists such as Zakir Moosa, and Burhan Koka. A-1 is stated
 to have admitted in the chats that he has various fake identity documents.
 • The chats also reveal that A-3 has informed them of a raid in jail where
 he dumped his mobile phone. 7.3 Preparation and Propagation of Terrorist Materials

 • The chats revealed that the anti-national book named 'Voice of Hind' was
 prepared by A-1 and A-3, softcopy and hard copies of which were
 retrieved from the house of A-1 and A-2. The said book was also shared
 with various persons. The said book contains various details of operatives
 of ISIS, activities, plans as well as the ideology of ISIS to have an Islamic Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 5 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 califate. The book also has material for radicalization of Muslims to pick
 up weapons in the name of religion. 7.4 Financial Transactions

 • A Bitcoin wallet address was shared by the entity `Caged Pearls' and A-1
 was asked for funding. Bitcoin deposits were also discussed in the chat
 and the said money from the Bitcoin wallets was being used for the
 purchase of weapons. Chats were found with an entity named 'Sec Tech'
 in Libya to whom the Bitcoin wallet address was shared.
 • A chat was also found between A-1 and A-5 regarding sending Rs. 1,10,000/- to the account of A-1 which was credited to the A-1 ICICI Bank
 account. The same was meant towards terrorist activity. 8. From the above-mentioned findings, the learned Trial Court came to a
 prima facie conclusion that A-1 has associated with ISKP as also ISIS and
 that he has made preparations for the execution of terrorist activities. Hence,
 the Special Court framed charges under Section 13 of the Unlawful Activities
 (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) against A-1. The Special Court also charged
 A-1 under Section 18 of the UAPA Act. Based on the evidence, A-1 was also
 charged under Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA as also 120B and 124A of IPC . Role of Hina Bashir Beigh (A-2) 9. With respect to the role of A-2, the discussion in the order of charge is
 as under: Muslims. The said chats had highly radicalised content. Further using
 the said fake identities, A-2 had also associated herself with the terrorist
 organisation ISIS. 10. Even though the chargesheet had other allegations with respect to
 conducting preparatory blasts, the court found that there was no material to
 show that A-2 was part of any conspiracy to commit any terrorist activity. A-
 2 was, therefore, charged only under Section 38(2) and Section 39(2) of the
 UAPA. She is discharged under Section 13 and Section 18 of the UAPA Act
 as also under Section 120B and Section 124A. Role of Sadiya Anwar Shaikh A-4 11. A-4 was arrested on 12th July, 2020. She is also alleged to have joined
 various Islamic groups in the FIR. With respect to the role of A-4, the
 allegations in the order of charge are as under: • A-1's mobile phone had messages with A-4 in which, she had made
 enquiries regarding the procurement of suicide jackets. The voice
 messages were also retrieved and the CFSL report matched the same with
 A-4. • Lastly, some witnesses (PW-23) stated that A-4 had instigated them to
 join the CAA/NRC protest and take violent steps. 12. A-4 was, thus, charged under Section 38(2) and Section 39(2) of the
 UAPA and she was discharged on the remaining offences namely Sections 13 and 18 of UAPA and Sections 120 , 124A , 153A and 201 IPC. 13. Thus, the charges framed against A-1, 2 and 4 are as under: 14. After framing of the charges on 26th February, 2024, all the accused,
 except A-6, had submitted before the Special Court that they wanted to plead
 guilty. The Trial Court then explained the maximum sentence that could be
 awarded. After following all the required procedures another opportunity was
 given to the accused for taking a stand. Statements of each of the accused
 were recorded by the Trial Court and the Special Court held the accused guilty
 of the following offences. Offences for which the accused persons are held guilty
 Sl. No. Name of the Accused Offence (s) for which the
 accused is held
 guilty/convicted. 1. Jahanzaib Sami (A-1) U/s 13,17,18,38,39 of
 UA(P) Act and u/s 120B , 124A IPC. 2. Hina Bashir Beigh (A-2) U/s 38(2), 39(2) of UA(P)
 Act 3. Sadiya Anwar Shaikh (A-4) U/s 38(2), 39(2) of UA(P)
 Act 15. The order of sentence was then passed. The Special Court notes that in
 the judgment of Parmod Kumar Mishra v. State of Uttar Pradesh1 , the
 Supreme Court observed the absence of a sentencing policy in India. Upon
 discussing various other judgments of the Supreme Court, the Trial Court
 awarded the following sentences: 16. Insofar as A-2 is concerned, the sentences awarded are as under: 17. Insofar as A-4 is concerned, the sentences awarded are as under: 18. For ease of reference, Sections 38 and 39 of UAPA are reproduced
 hereunder:- section (1), shall be punishable with imprisonment for
 a term not exceeding ten years, or with fine, or with
 both. 39. Offence relating to support given to a terrorist
 organisation. --(1) A person commits the offence
 relating to support given to a terrorist organisation,-- (a) who, with intention to further the activity of a
 terrorist organisation,-- (i) invites support for the terrorist organization; and (ii) the support is not or is not restricted to provide
 money or other property within the meaning of section
 40 ; or (b) who, with the intention to further the activity of a
 terrorist organisation, arranges, manages or assists in
 arranging or managing a meeting which he knows is-- (i) to support the terrorist organization; or (ii) to further the activity of the terrorist organization;
 or (iii) to be addressed by a person who associates or
 professes to be associated with the terrorist
 organisation; or (c) who, with intention to further the activity of a
 terrorist organisation, addresses a meeting for the
 purpose of encouraging support for the terrorist
 organisation or to further its activity. (2) A person, who commits the offence relating to
 support given to a terrorist organisation under sub-
 section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for
 a term not exceeding ten years, or with fine, or with
 both." As can be seen from the above, A-2 is awarded sentence of eight years under Section 38(2) of UAPA and eight years under Section 39(2) of UAPA with
 no fine. A-4 was awarded a sentence of seven years under Section 38 of
 UAPA and seven years under Section 39 of UAPA. All the sentences were to
 run concurrently. The imprisonment was also simple imprisonment. It is these
 orders on sentences that are under challenge in the present Appeals. SUBMISSIONS MADE BY THE PARTIES 19. The main submission on behalf of the Appellants is that A-3, who
 according to them played a role similar to that of the Appellants and was also
 convicted under the same provisions, was sentenced for the period already
 undergone. But the same benefit was not extended to A-2 and A-4.
 Submission of the N.I.A., however, in this regard is that A-3 was already in
 jail when the incidents alleged in the FIR occurred. Further, at the time of
 registering the FIR, he was in prison for more than six years in relation to
 another case and, therefore, he was sentenced to the period already undergone.
 The N.I.A had also submitted that it has preferred an appeal against the order
 of charge dated 28th July 2023 by which the Appellants were partially
 discharged from the offences under sections 13 , 17 and 18 of UAPA. In order
 to deal with the submission of parity with A-3, the role of A-3, as per the order
 on charge, deserves to be noticed. Role of Abdullah Basith A-3 20. A-3 was stated to be an active member of ISIS and was already lodged
 in jail since August, 2018 on the allegation that he was connected to ISIS
 through social media platforms. The order on charge dated 28th July, 2024
 clearly records the main allegations levied against A-3 in the chargesheet as
 follows: • It was also alleged that the A-1 and A-3 were planning to radicalise
 Muslim youth to join ISIS and raise funds and carry out lone-wolf
 attacks in India. 21. On the other hand, the order also clearly records that from A-3, no
 recovery of mobile phones was effected and the said allegations were
 completely denied. The Special Court noticed the statement of PW-15 i.e.,
 then Superintendent of Prison, Central Jail No.3, Tihar. Though, he confirmed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 13 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 that the said phone was used by A-3, the same was an unclaimed phone and
 it was not physically recovered from A-3. Additionally, neither was any data
 recovered from the mobile phone nor was the CDR of the same placed on
 record. Therefore, in the absence of sufficient evidence to corroborate the
 allegation, the Special Court came to the conclusion that the allegation that he
 was using the mobile phone, is not proved. The Special Court merely records
 that there was evidence to show that the A-3 was in contact with A-1 and there
 were chats which were shown between A-1 and A-3. The Special Court also
 found that there was no overt act committed by the A-3 for raising and
 receiving funds for terrorist activities. 22. Thus, upon making all the above-mentioned observations, the Court
 concluded that there was no ground was made out for framing the charges
 against A-3 under Sections 13 & 17 of UAPA. The Special Court notes that
 there were chats between A-3 and A-1 where A-3 was sending messages
 under the name 'Khattab' but the same was not sufficient to charge him under Section 18 or 120B, 124A, 153A. However, due to the chats reflected in D84
 and D111 documents, the Special Court held that he was pursuing and
 furthering the cause of a proscribed terrorist organization and thus, charges
 were framed under Sections 38 & 39 of the UAPA. ANALYSIS 23. From the submissions and the discussion above, it is clear that the
 challenge is limited to the quantum of sentences. Therefore, there are broadly
 two aspects to be considered. • Whether the sentence awarded against A-2 and A-4 is justified?
 • Whether A-2 and A-4 can claim parity with A-3? 24. As captured herein above, the sentence awarded to A-2 is eight years
 under sections 38 and 39 to run concurrently and in the case of A-4, the
 sentence is seven years under both sections to run concurrently. Insofar as A-
 2 is concerned, she has been in custody since 23th March, 2020 and the period
 of sentence undergone is four years and nine months approximately.
 Similarly, A-4 has been in custody since 29th July, 2020 and the period of
 sentence undergone is four years and four months approximately. 25. Insofar as sentencing is concerned, specifically in respect of terrorism
 and similar/related offences, no guidelines have been framed in India at a
 policy level. In some foreign jurisdictions such as the UK, US, Sweden, etc.,
 specific guidelines have been framed for the purpose of sentencing in the case
 of terrorist acts etc. Further, in certain jurisdictions, there are also general
 guidelines that are to be followed for awarding sentences in the absence of
 guidelines specific to the offence at hand. Some of the guidelines on
 sentencing, especially in the context of terrorist activities, deserve to be
 discussed in this context. UNITED KINGDOM (UK) 26. The Terrorism Act of 2000 deals with offences relating to terrorism in
 the UK. Specific Bench Books have been prepared in the UK to give guidance
 to Courts on the factors which could be considered for the purpose of
 awarding sentences. The various steps that are considered for the purpose of
 awarding sentences for the offences of Membership in a Proscribed
 Organisation u/s 11 of the Terrorism Act 2000 and Encouragement of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 15 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 Terrorism u/s 1 & 2 of the Terrorism Act 20062 are as under: 27. As part of the above steps, some of the factors, which are considered,
 are- ● Whether the person is a prominent/active/dormant member of the
 terrorist organization?; ● Whether the sentence of imprisonment is necessary or not?;
 ● Consideration of statutorily prescribed aggravating factors (if any)
 including
 ○ previous convictions,
 ○ offences committed while on bail,
 ○ offences motivated by religion; ● Knowledge or ignorance of the nature of the proscribed organisation
 with which the association was shown; ● Any positive or exemplary conduct shown by the offender;
 ● Age or lack of maturity; ● Any duress, coercion, intimidation or exploitation of the offender
 ● Status of the offender in society as also within the family - such as the
 role of the offender as primary caregiver, dependent relatives, and
 children to be taken care of; ● The family (Socio-economical) background of the offender or any other
 personal circumstances; ● Educational qualifications could be considered as an aggravating or
 mitigating factor depending on the facts and circumstances of the case; ● Conduct of the offenders in pleading guilty; ● The seriousness of the offences; ● Special sentencing in case of terrorism and similar offences;
 ● Time spent on bail and conduct during bail; ● Whether the person is in a position to influence, encourage or assist
 others towards terrorism; ● Any reckless act carried out by the offender; ● Any evidence that shows the possibility of endangering the life of other
 people; ● Producing publications for encouraging support towards terrorist
 activities; ● Contact/Communication with known extremists;
 ● Dissemination of publication/s that support terrorism;
 ● Usage of social media platforms to reach a wider audience;
 ● Attempts to disguise identity and to prevent detection;
 ● Continued unlawful activity despite previous warnings;
 ● Offences committed in prison, etc.,
 Some of the above factors could be aggravating factors, some of them could
 be mitigating and some could be both depending on the facts and
 circumstances of the case. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 28. Guidelines are published in the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 which
 was also enacted as title II of the Comprehensive Criminal Control Act of
 1984. In the US, terrorism related activities are separately dealt with and the
 question as to whether the role of the offender is an aggravating or mitigating Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 18 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 role is considered. The process of sentencing is quantified by the usage of
 numbers and mathematical formulae. To elaborate, each offence is assigned a
 numerical base offence level. Similarly, various factors both aggravating and
 mitigating are also given numerical values. Various factors are added or
 subtracted from the value of the base offence level to arrive at the final
 number. The general principle adopted is that each of the aggravating and
 mitigating factors increases or decreases the final levels of the sentence. The
 sentence is finally derived from the sentencing table in the guidelines manual
 published on 1st November, 2023 which converts the offence number to the
 exact sentence period. The table divides offences broadly into Zone A to Zone
 C. The sentencing is calculated in terms of months. The broad guidelines,
 which are followed include the nature and seriousness of the conduct, the
 purpose of the sentencing, and characteristics of the offenders among the other
 aggravating and mitigating factors. 29. A perusal of the sentencing guidelines manual and specifically the
 sentencing table would reveal that the same is extremely detailed in nature3. SWEDEN 30. In Sweden, there are detailed guidelines and specific sentencing criteria
 to determine the type and length of punishment. The factors that are
 considered include personal circumstances, prior criminal history, conduct
 during probation, if any, etc. 3 https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-manual/2023/GLMFull.pdf
 https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-manual/2023/Sentencing_Table.pdf Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 19 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 INDIA 31. In India, though there are no specific sentencing guidelines,
 recommendations recording the need to introduce such guidelines were made
 way back in March, 2003. The Committee on Reforms on Criminal Justice
 System (Malimath Committee) was of the opinion that such guidelines
 would minimize the uncertainty in the awarding of sentences. Such a need
 has been reaffirmed by the Draft National Policy on Criminal Justice
 (Madhava Menon Committee). Certain news reports also suggest that such
 a measure was under consideration to remove the uncertainty in sentencing. 32. On the judicial side, the following are the judgments, which discuss the
 factors in the awarding of sentences. In Pramod Kumar Mishra v. State of
 UP4 the Supreme Court upheld the general factors that are to be considered
 while sentencing, mentioned in Santa Singh v. State of Punjab5 • Prior Criminal Record
 • Age of the Offender
 • Employment Records
 • Background of an offender with respect to Education, Homelife,
 Sobriety, and Social Adjustment. • Emotional and mental conditions of the offender
 • Prospects of rehabilitation
 • Possibility of the sentence acting as a deterrence to the criminal and
 others. (2023) 9 SCC 810 5 (1976) 4 SCC 190 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 20 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 33. In Sunder Singh v. State of Uttaranchal6 the Supreme Court listed out
 and classified various aggravating and mitigating factors. The Aggravating
 Factors include,
 • Whether the offence involves extreme brutality,
 • Whether the offence is targeted towards a large number of people of a
 particular caste, religion or locality, committed with previous planning
 Similarly, the mitigating factors include,
 • extreme mental/ emotional disturbance of the offender,
 • young/old age of the offender,
 • reduced probability of committing the crime again,
 • offence committed under duress/ domination, mental impairment 34. The Supreme Court in the State of Madhya Pradesh v. Udham Singh7 laid down the basic principles in awarding sentences based on the fulcrum of
 three tests. (i) Crime test - involves assessment of factors like the extent of
 planning, choice of weapon, modus of crime, disposal modus (if any),
 the role of the accused, antisocial or abhorrent character of the crime,
 and state of the victim. (ii) Criminal test - involves assessment of factors such as age of the
 criminal, gender of the criminal, economic conditions, or social
 background of the criminal, motivation of crime, availability of
 defence, state of mind, instigation by the deceased or anyone from the
 deceased group, adequately represented in the trial, disagreement by a
 judge in the appeal process, repentance, possibility of reformation, trial, 6 (2010) 10 SCC 611 7 (2019) 10 SCC 300 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 21 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 criminal record (not to take pending cases), and any other relevant
 factor (not an exhaustive list) (iii) Comparative Proportionality Test 35. In terms of general principles, the Supreme Court in Hazara Singh v.
 Raj Kumar & Ors8 , observed that sentencing should be proportional to the
 crime committed. Similarly, the Court also observed that the process of
 sentencing shall have to balance the rights of the victim and that of the society
 at large. Further, the Delhi High Court in Bilal Ahmed & Ors v. NIA and
 Anr9 while dismissing the case for not providing reasons in awarding the
 highest sentence, clearly observed that the enormity of the allegation cannot
 be the sole determinant factor for finalising the quantum of sentence. A
 balanced approach should be taken upon considering mitigating
 circumstances such as age, previous antecedents, and the candid act of
 pleading guilty. 36. A perusal of the above factors and principles would show that though
 specific guidelines have not been introduced on a policy level in India, the
 factors to be seen in awarding sentences are similar to those of other
 jurisdictions. While awarding sentences for terrorism-related activities, the
 Courts will have to, not merely bear in mind the crime committed but also the
 impact of the same and the propensity of the person to indulge in a similar
 crime in future. The intent behind providing a range of punishment that could
 be awarded for an offence is to give the Courts sufficient discretion to
 consider various aggravating and mitigating factors while awarding
 sentences. Though there is no doubt that the discretion has to be exercised 8 (2013) 9 SCC 516 9 2024:DHC:4113-DB Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 22 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 judiciously, it cannot be expected to be uniform. In a country like India,
 where there are possibilities of innocent persons being encouraged towards
 terrorism, it is not merely the rights of the convict that have to be considered
 but also the impact of the said convict being allowed to integrate back into
 society which has to be considered. 37. Considering the specific facts of the present cases, the proliferation of
 crime through the internet and social media platforms cannot be ignored. The
 fact that the Appellants used fake identities to conceal their original identity
 and avoid tracing also cannot be ignored. While encrypted platforms permit
 and encourage privacy and freedom of speech and expression, the misuse of
 the same by terrorists and banned organizations also would have to be borne
 in mind. The Appellants are technologically savvy persons who have made
 use of their educational qualifications to promote terrorism and incite
 offensive activities against the country. Such cases would have to be dealt
 with differently than cases involving innocent persons, who may have been
 pulled into crime without their knowledge. Factors such as funding through
 bitcoins, as also the use of journalistic credentials to publish and disseminate
 magazines to incite violence, also cannot be ignored. 38. In the case of A-2 and A-4, both have shown their active involvement
 with a proscribed terrorist organization. A-2 being the wife of A-1 had
 permitted her laptop to be used by A-1. Even the phones have been
 exchangeably used by A-1 and A-2. Reasonably, she cannot be said to have
 been ignorant. Insofar as A-4 is concerned, she was a student of journalism
 when she was arrested. As per N.I.A's submissions and other news reports,
 she was also suspected to have been earlier involved in the J&K blasts and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 23 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 was let out with a warning considering her age at that time10. 39. While the fact that A-4 was only about 20 years of age and the fact that
 both the Appellants are ladies who may not be fully aware of the complete
 plans of A-1, could be mitigating factors, their association with the main
 accused as also the circumstances wherein they were seen inciting violence
 through publications during the CAA/NRC protests, would have to be borne
 in mind. 40. The Appellants cannot claim complete parity with A-3, on facts. The
 roles ascribed to them and the role of A-3 is also not identical. A-3 was in
 custody when the present FIR was registered. Bearing in mind all the above
 factors, this Court accordingly deems it appropriate to modify the sentences
 awarded to the A-2 and A-4 in the following terms. 41. With respect to Hina Bashir Beigh (A-2)
 Upon considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the role of the
 accused, aggravating and mitigating factors, Appellant/Convict Hina Bashir
 Beigh's (A-2) sentence is modified from imprisonment for a period of 8
 years each to imprisonment for a period of 6 years each for offences u/s
 38 & 39 of UAPA. No fine is imposed for either of the offences. The sentences
 for the said offences are to run concurrently in both cases. 42. With respect to Sadiya Anwar Shaikh (A-4)
 Upon considering the facts and circumstances of the case, role of the accused,
 aggravating and mitigating factors, Appellant/Convict Sadiya Anwar 10 https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/pune/pune-crime-files-influenced-is-groups-social-media-
 teenaged-girl8913017-8913017/
 https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/de-radicalised-twice-pune-woman-went-back-to-is-nia/story-
 soyni1wx8kNrbEyDEhFrOK.html Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 24 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53 Shaikh's (A-4) sentence is modified from imprisonment for a period of 7
 years each to imprisonment for a period of 6 years each for offences u/s
 38 & 39 of UAPA. No fine is imposed for either of the offences. The sentences
 for the said offences are to run concurrently in both cases. 43. The above appeals are disposed of. All pending applications are also
 disposed of. 44. The copy of this judgment be sent to the concerned Jail Superintendent
 for necessary compliance. 45. Needless to say, that the outcome of these appeals shall not impact the
 pending appeals against the order on charge dated 28th July 2024. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE

 AMIT SHARMA
 JUDGE
 NOVEMBER 14, 2024
 dj/Arvind M Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.A. 517/2024 & CRL.A. 784/2024 Page 25 of 25 By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:14.11.2024 19:53