The operative part of the order is extracted hereunder:- “… 28. The payment of dues of NOIDA
 Authority has to be made as per agreement by
 M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited to
 NOIDA, out of sale consideration. The rate of
 interest on dues to be paid, concerning the
 plot in question, as per order passed on 10th
 June 2020 as modified on 10th July 2020. On
 deposit of dues of NOIDA out of sale
 consideration, the cancellation of lease shall
 stand withdrawn and it shall grant time of 7
 years to complete the project which is granted
 to a new lessee. We direct Baseline
 Infradevelopers Private Limited, as per the
 MoU, to execute a sale deed. However, as per
 MoU, out of the total sale consideration, Rs.20
 Crores has been paid, and the balance amount is
 Rs.1917979798/-. The agreement was entered into
 way back on 09.10.2017. The amount ought to
 have been paid within a reasonable time, and by
 now, approximately 02 years 09 months have
 passed. Therefore, it would be equitable to
 direct M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited
 to make payment of Rs.240 Crores in addition as
 outstanding amount would have earned the 14 interest at a rate of 9% to 9.25%. 29. To do complete justice, it would be
appropriate to quantify the outstanding amount
be paid at Rs.240 Crores, in addition to the
sum of Rs.20 Crores that has been paid as
earnest money. The dues of the NOIDA to be paid
first at first priority, and the remaining
amount, which is payable to Baseline
Infradevelopers Private Limited shall be
retained in the account of the Registry of this
Court, to be used for the completion of
unfinished projects of Amrapali Group. Thus, in
the process at least some money would be
generated for completion of projects. 30. It was submitted by Shri M. L. Lahoty,
learned counsel and Shri Gopal Shankarnarayan,
learned senior counsel, that in the brochure
which was issued by Amrapali Group, the health
club was shown in the project of Phase III,
whereas now in the fresh plan, it has been
shown in the area of HBC 1 and HBC 2 itself. The builder should be held bound by the
brochure, which was published. Shri M.L.
Lahoty, learned counsel, has drawn our
attention to Sections 12, and 14 of the RERA
and Section 5(3) of The Uttar Pradesh Apartment
(Promotion of Construction, Ownership and
Maintenance) Act. However, on a specific query
made to Shri Lahoty, he was unable to show that
application for registration was filed along
with the map showing the area of the health
club in Phase-III of the project. Out of
Phase-III of the Project, 20000 sq.m. has
already been sold to another person. Remaining
40000 sqm. was agreed to be sold to M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited and the
lease of plot itself has been canceled, and it
appears that an application was filed
indicating the location of health club within
HBC 1 and HBC 2. In the circumstances, we find
that brochure cannot hold the field,
particularly when the allotment of the plot
itself had been canceled due to non-payment of
the lease rent and interest. Considering the
stand taken by the NOIDA in its reply, we find
that no justification in the prayer based on
the brochure, to hold that health club to be
located at the place which is not available. When health club will be provided within the
project of HBC 1 and HBC 2, it cannot be said
that any prejudice is to be caused to the home 15 buyers. They are going to have the same
 facility which was promised to be provided. Thus, we find no hesitation to reject the
 aforesaid prayer made on behalf of the home
 buyers. Let sale deed be executed on payment of
 Rs.240 Crores (Rupees Two Hundred and Forty
 Crores only) out of that firstly the dues of
 NOIDA are to be cleared. Let the amount of
 Rs.240 crores (Rupees Two Hundred and Forty
 Crores only) be deposited by M/s. Mahagun Real
 Estate Private Ltd. in the Registry of this
 Court within six weeks from this date. NOIDA
 shall indicate its dues within 15 days. After
 the amount as aforesaid is deposited, the Sale
 Deed be executed by NOIDA and M/s. Baseline
 Infradevelopers Private Limited in favour of
 M/s. Mahagun Real Estates Private Ltd. A copy
 of the Sale Deed be filed in the Registry of
 this Court, whereafter the Registry shall remit
 the amount representing dues of NOIDA, and the
 balance shall be retained and utilized for
 completion of projects.“

 (NARENDRA PRASAD) (JAYANT KUMAR ARORA) (JAGDISH CHANDER)
ASTT. REGISTRAR-cum-PS COURT MASTER ASSISTANT REGISTRAR

 (Signed order is placed on the file) 1 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (C) NO.940/2017

 BIKRAM CHATTERJI & ORS. ..PETITIONER(S)

 VERSUS

 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. ..RESPONDENT(S)
 WITH
 WRIT PETITION (C) NO.160/2018

 WRIT PETITION (C) NO.288/2018

 ORDER 1. We have heard the Forensic Auditor as well as the learned counsel

appearing for the parties at length. The first question arises whether the

Heartbeat City Projects are of Amrapali Group, and the second question is

as to the agreement entered into by M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private

Limited with M/s.Baseline Infradevelopers Private Limited. 2. It is apparent that Heartbeat City Projects were launched in the name

of the 'Amrapali Heartbeat’ project in 2011-2012 with Mr. M. S. Dhoni, the

Brand Ambassador. The Home Buyers' agreement was entered into in the

name style of Amrapali Group with the assurance that flats will be delivered

within 36 months. Most of the buyers paid their dues on time, but the

construction was delayed. 3. Heartbeat City Projects comprise Heartbeat City 1 (for short, HBC 1)

and Heartbeat City 2 (for short, HBC 2) and Hanging Gardens in Noida. The land for the respective projects was allotted in the name of Three

Platinum Softech Private Limited, Pebbles Prolease Private Limited, and

Baseline Infradevelopers Private Limited. The projects were launched and

advertised in the name of the Amrapali Group. Phase 3 project was started

in 2011-2012 in the name of Hanging Garden; however, later on, Hanging

Garden project was scrapped, and the home buyers were admittedly shifted

to HBC 1 and HBC 2 or refunded the amount. 4. HBC 1 comprises 759 units, and HBC 2 consists of 1217 units +

shops, but construction could not progress for one reason or the other. 5. In the Audit Report, it has been found that the land in Baseline was

part and parcel of HBC 1 and HBC 2 projects and in general, under the

control of the Directors of HBC 1 and HBC 2 and was purchased from the

funds of the customers of HBC 1 and HBC 2 and, is an integral part of HBC

1 and HBC 2 and, therefore, customers of HBC 1 and HBC 2 have the first

and the full right over the land rights and on the proceeds to be received

from the sale of the land can be utilised for the construction of HBC 1 and

HBC 2 projects. HBC 1 has nine towers and 785 units, of which, 675 units

were sold and Rs. 147 crores recoverable from sold units. HBC 2 has 12

towers and 1282 units, out of which, 936 units were sold and Rs. 301

crores recoverable from sold units. The cost to complete HBC 1 is

approximately Rs. 167.19 crores and HBC 2 is Rs. 375.64 crores, which is

recoverable from unsold units. 6. Mr. Amit Wadhwa, Director of Amrapali Homes, has 25%

shareholding. Mr. Akhil Kumar Surekha, who is the Director of Bihariji 3 Ispat Udyog Ltd. and JST Engineering Services Limited, has 13% and 12%

shareholding respectively, total 25%. Mr. Vaibhav Jain and Mr. Pankaj

Jain, Directors, are holding 10% and 15%, total 25% of the shareholding,

whereas Cozi Habitat Builders Private Limited, Maa Sharda Holding Private

Limited, through its Director Mr. Sankalp Shukla is also holding 25%

shares. Similarly, in HBC Phase II, the shareholding pattern is similar to

25% of the group mentioned above of Mr. Amit Wadhwa, Mr. Akhil Kumar

Surekha Vaibhav Jain, Mr. Pankaj Jain, and Mr. Sankalp Shukla. 7. In Baseline Infradevelopers Pvt. Ltd., it is stated that shareholding of

Mr. Amresh Kumar is 8.25%, Bihariji Ispat Udyog Limited through Mr.

Akhil Kumar Surekha is 8.25%, B2C Realtors Pvt. Ltd. through Mr. Vaibhav

Jain and Ms. Swati Jain is 8.25%, Cozy Habitat Builders Pvt. Ltd. through

Mr. Sankalp Shukla is 8.25%. Mr. Nishant Choubey and Mr. Santosh

Choubey are holding 34% and 33% respectively. Mr. Nishant Choubey and

Mr. Santosh Choubey did not provide documents to the Forensic Auditors; however, they possess 67% shares. 8. The following findings were recorded concerning Heartbeat City in our

Judgment and Order dated 23.7.2019:- 9. Mr. Vaibhav Jain admittedly was the architect of Amrapali Group who

was holding 25% shares. Mr. Akhil Kumar Surekha was also holding 25%

shares in each of the projects. 10. Concerning Surekha Group, in our Judgment and Order dated

23.7.2019, the following facts have been mentioned :- While reviewing the books of accounts of Amrapali Infrastructure Private
 Limited and M/s Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited, it has been observed
 that Amrapali Infrastructure has made purchases from M/s Jotindra
 Steel against Letter of Credit. The letter of credit has been discounted by
 M/s Jotindra Steel with the banks. The discounting charges of INR 1.30
 Crores have been debited by M/s Jotindra Steel to M/s Amrapali
 Infrastructure. We fail to understand the reason for this treatment. In
 normal course of business, the supplier is the person who bears the
 discounting charges in respect of the transactions as the margin when
 sold on Letter of Credit are generally higher. This amount of INR 1.30
 Crores on account of discounting charges of Letter of Credit Should be
 recovered from M/s Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited.
 i. It has also been observed that M/s Jotindra Steel and Tubes
 Limited has issued service invoices for erection, shifting and
 transportation charges amounting to INR 96 lakhs approximately
 during the financial year 2014-15 as per details given below: This clearly establishes that all the GRs issued by M/s Synergy
 Freightways Private Limited are not genuine. Further, most of the
 purchase invoices of JST have been shown as sale on the same date with
 similar particulars/ quantity by raising the invoice on Amrapali
 Infrastructure Private Limited. We are of the view that these sales invoices raised by JST are also not
 genuine and are mere accommodation entries only. Sample details of such transactions for 2 days are enclosed below: When we questioned Mr. Navneet Sureka who approached Amrapali
 group from trust side and who was approached in Amrapali group. He
 answered “he is not able to recollect”. He didn’t cooperate otherwise how it is possible that such a huge
 amount donated by Amrapali group companies and he is not able to
 remember the basic question. We recommend the amount donated 12 should be recovered from the Sureka group. We are of the opinion that the supplies and services provided by
Jotindra Steel & Tubes Limited (Rs 321 crore) and Mauria Udyog Limited
(Rs 128 crore) are prima facie bogus in nature. 1. The 2 directors namely Mr. Akhil Sureka and Mr. Navneet Sureka are
equally responsible for companies having
shareholding/capital/profitsharing and should be held responsible for
shortfall in cost of construction and land dues to Noida authorities.
(Refer annexure S-11 page 2960 Supplementary report) 2. Mr. Akhil Sureka opened bank account in SBI, Patiala, Faridabad in
the name of Amrapali group companies and became a signatory.
Amrapali did not have any base at Faridabad but Akhil sureka operates
from Faridabad. 3. Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited agreed to buy used construction
equipments from Amrapali Infrastructure Private Limited and paid Rs 8
crore on 13th December, 2016 and immediately transferred that funds to
group companies of Sureka group namely Jotindra Steel and Tubes
Limited and others by routing the funds from Amrapali Infrastructure
Private Limited to Ultra Home Construction Private Limited. 4. The FSI’s bought by Sureka group (details given in Chart D) without
making any payment. The modus operandi was funds were paid from
one company and on the same day were transferred to other Sureka
group company by routing in 2-3 Amrapali Group companies. This
would not have been possible without active involvement of Mr. Akhil
Sureka, who is bank signatory. We found on sample basis that the
amount of Rs. 80 crore so routed was originally started from Amrapali.
The amount so claimed of Rs 80 crore has been routed through various
companies. this amount has been paid out of Amrapali group against
purchases and payment made to various vendors namely Bhagirathi
Tubes (Prop Mr. Shiv Kumar)etc. It was confirmed by supplier that he
did not have any knowledge of any of the transactions and stated that all
transactions were carried out in good faith under the advice &
instruction of Mr. Akhil Sureka. He further submitted that he never
visited any of the Amrapali group office, he or his staff including
employees has never visited any of the offices or site of Amrapali group.
When questioned on supplies of scaffolding material and steel to and
purchase sales reconciliation of supplies along with purchase orders and
sales orders, he confirmed that it is not available. The amount so paid
should be recovered from the SUREKA group companies. It was further
confirmed that funds movement were also on behalf of Akhil Sureka
carried out under good faith. 5. An amount of Rs 55 crore was received from EXIM bank under line of
credit for a project was to be done in Mozambique. The group submitted
a bogus bank guarantee for the said advance to Mozambique client
from a bank namely International Trade Bank Limited. Out of the
funds of RS 55crore, major amount was transferred to Companies of
Sureka group. On enquiry from the Amrapali Group we came to know that the bank 13 guarantee was made available by Mr. Navneet Sureka, Managing
Director of Mauria Udyog Limited and that no bank exist/existed by
the name International Trade Bank Limited. It was also informed that
the project was under direct control and supervision of Mr. Navneet
Sureka. It shows active involvement of Mr. Navneet Sureka in the
project. Mr. Prashant Kumar and Mr. Ram Kumar are the persons who
were travelling to Mozambique and know about the project but we could
not get the contact details of these 2 persons 6. Quality Synthetics (Sureka Group) had given a loan to Amrapali
Sapphire of RS 3 crore in March, 2009 at the rate of interest of 14% p.a.
The company kept on paying to Quality Synthetics when it was having
no funds for construction. The Amrapali Group was giving advances to
various vendors/parties interest free and taking loan from Quality
Synthetics, at the rate of 14% p.a. It is pertinent to note that the said
amount of RS 3 crore along with all interest due totaling to RS 3,86
crore was repaid in March, 2018 when there were no funds available
for construction of flat and the case was pending before Honorable
Supreme Court. The amount should be recovered immediately. It is
pertinent to note that the company is not doing any business and are
used just for the purpose of money laundering. 7. Sureka group was a promoter and was providing the net worth
certificate at the time of allotment of land to Noida/ Greater Noida
authorities. At the time of making payment to the authorities for
land funds were arranged by them. 8. The directors other than the family have come and informed that they
were not knowing about the operations of the company and not attended
any board meeting and papers were send to their residence for
signatures. 9. There are many other high value transactions which we are in process
of examination. 10. Further to our supplementary report dated 30th April 2019. The
directors of four companies of Sureka Group appeared before us from
9th May 2019 to 18th May 2019, the directors gave their statement On
the basis of interaction in the statement given by them. We found as
follows. The four companies which bought FSI for the sham companies created
for the purpose of money laundering. Neither the shareholders nor the
directors of the companies were aware of any transactions carried out by
these companies. It is worthwhile to note that Mr. Vishnu Sureka, Mr.
Navneet Sureka and Mr. Akhil Sureka were neither the shareholders nor
the directors as well didn’t attend any board meeting including
AGM/EGM. However, out of three who were signatory to the bank in all
the companies. Directors were not aware of who have been the
signatories. When questioned . Vishnu, navneet and akhil Sureka could
not reply why they were the signatories when they were neither
shareholders, directors, employees. Mauria Udyog Limited
It was submitted in affidavit of Mauria Udyog Limited that Mauria Udyog
Limited is a manufacturer and traders. It is stated that in addition, to 14 manufacturing of LPG Cylinders, MUL also manufactures world class
“Terry Towel” and “Apparels”. Further MUL also trades internationally &
domestically in Steel Products in addition to Ferrous & Non Ferrous
metals. MUL also deals in agro commodities such as soya bean, refined oil
& deoiled cake used as fodder for the cattle feed/poultry industry.(from
affidavit of MUL para 5 page 2) We scrutinized the annual accounts of
Mauria Udyog Limited and found that the product that is TMT bars
are supplied only to Amrapali Group companies and a very
minuscule quantity to other companies. In the 2010-11, TMT bar supplied for Rs. 52.97 crore and the payment
received Rs 29 crore and that is also a major part of the payment of Rs
16.5 crore was received in March. Similarly, in the year 2012-13, supplies were made of TMT bar and the
payment was received in the month of March 2012 just before closing of
the year. Suddenly in the year 2012-13, trend is changed and Ultra Home
Construction Pvt Ltd gave an advance of Rs 33 crore on various dates
which was returned subsequently in the month of February and March. The above transactions are dubious in nature because we scrutinized
the supply bills of Mauria Udyog Limited and found that Mauria Udyog
Limited has supplied TMT bars only to Amrapali group of companies. It
is not an item in which Mauria Udyog Limited has dealt with any other
party except a miniscule quantity of 2-3 customers who in turn has also
supplied to Amrapali group. There was no purchase order from Amrapali
group to Mauria Udyog Limited even the size of TMT bar was not
mentioned on the invoice of Mauria Udyog Limited. The rate
charged by Mauria Udyog Limited are higher in the range of 15-20%
then the market rate for which no satisfactory explanation was
provided to us. In year 2013-14, Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd gave
Rs 2.45 crore to Mauria Udyog Ltd which was returned on 29th March.
It is surprising to find out that in the year 2014-15 in the month of
May and June, Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd has accepted LCs
from banks without booking of any purchase of material. The
company’s bank account is used for accommodation bills and Mauria
Udyog Ltd was paid an excess of Rs 1.16 crore over and above an
accommodation bill. In the year 2015-16, in the month of May
Amrapali group started supplying TMT bars to Mauria Udyog Ltd,
the purpose of supplies of TMT bars by Ultra Home Construction Pvt
Ltd was not explained to us. In the year 2015-16, total supplies are to
the extent of Rs 15.79 crore and in the year 2016-17 amounting to Rs
5.36 crore. In the year 2015-16, payments were made to Mauria Udyog
Ltd on behalf of Shri Satguru Metalloys Pvt Ltd and Bhagirathi Tubes of
Rs 8 crore and Rs 6.50 crore respectively. We were not explained any
reasons for making such payments. It is pertinent to note that the company is not doing any business and
are used just for the purpose of money laundering. Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants Ltd
A group company of Sureka group paid Rs 1 crore to Amrapali Sapphire
Developers Pvt Ltd. The entire amount along with interest payment of Rs 15 1.11 crore was paid to Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants Ltd,
surprisingly Amrapali group didn’t charge any interest on payments
made to Sureka group of companies but it had paid without fail interest
@ 13.45% to Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants Ltd. Further an
amount of Rs 2 crore was paid to Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants
Ltd on 31st March 2018, when the matter was pending before the
Honourable Supreme Court. The amount of Rs 2 crore should
immediately be recovered from Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants
Ltd and Sureka family. It is pertinent to note that the company is not doing any business and
are used just for the purpose of money laundering. Conclusion
We are of the opinion that this company floated/formed for the purpose
of money laundering and FSI sold to these companies were merely
accounting and adjustment entries done by them transferring funds
from one account to another as reported earlier in our supplementary
report. The modus operandi adopted by Sureka family was the same as
adopted by Amrapali Group i.e. they formed the companies, their
employees who were paid salaries in the range of Rs 20,000-Rs 60,000
the shareholders and directors in these companies. It is pertinent to note
that their signatory to the bank are family members. Mr. Navneet Sureka and Mr. Akhil Sureka used these companies for the
purpose of money laundering of funds of Amrapali Group. The bank guarantee was bogus and we couldn’t find the bank name
which issued the bank guarantee, it appears that there was a criminal
conspiracy and the bank was not in existence. Mr. Navneet Sureka was in full control of Amrapali group companies
which is very clear and can be understood from the transactions of
donation. On the instructions of Mr. Navneet Sureka, GM/DGM
accounts Mr. Adhikari was transferring funds to the trust from various
group companies of Amrapali as and when desired by him and
instructed by him. None of the directors ever attended a board meeting it was informed that
the directors signed the paper under the instructions and directions of
Mr. Akhil Sureka. The fact was accepted by Mr. Akhil Sureka. This
proves that there was non compliances of holding board meetings and
AGM as required u/s 174 of Companies Act, 2013. Further, the bank
signatories to the bank are Mr. Vishnu Sureka and Mr. Navneet Sureka
as an authorized signatory. In what capacity they were the signatory,
they could not explain and it was told by Mr. Akhil Sureka and Mr.
Vishnu Sureka that the directors were having full faith upon them
therefore authorized them as bank signatory surprisingly, directors were
not the signatory this is an unique case which is difficult to found in the
corporate history. When there was a transfer of shares from one shareholder to other in full
or part of his/her shareholding there was no transactions for
consideration through banking channels.” 16 11. Mr. Navneet Surekha and Mr. Akhil Kumar Surekha used the

companies mentioned in the Report for the purpose of money laundering,

and they were the authorised signatories also. Mr. Akhil Kumar Surekha

opened the bank account of Amrapali. Thus, it is apparent that the

investment made by Mr. Akhil Kumar Surekha cannot be treated to be an

independent one. Mr. Vaibhav Jain, Architect, along with others, extended

helping hand to the management and planning and execution of the scam. The following finding has been recorded in the Forensic Auditors' Report

about him:- 12. Mr. Amit Wadhwa is the nephew of Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO of

Amrapali Group of Companies. The following findings were recorded

against Mr. Chander Wadhwa in the judgment: It has also been observed that a sum of Rs.5 crores was
 transferred by M/s Amrapali Homes Project Private Limited to
 Mr. Amit Wadhwa, nephew of Mr. Chander Prakash Wadhwa.
 As per the affidavit filled by Mr. Chander Prakash Wadhwa
 the said sum was invested by him in M/s Three Platinum
 Softech Private Limited. The Heartbeat city projects is partly
 owned by three Platinum and Amrapali group has invested in
 the projects in the name of Chander Wadhwa. As per Statement of Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Director of La
 Residentia Developers Private Limited recorded by us, he
 Informed that a sum of Rs.4 crores Approximately, was paid
 as fees for use of Amrapali Brand Name to Saffron Propmart
 Private Limited (This Company is controlled by Mr. Chander
 Wadhwa CFO). No Bills have been provided by him. Statutory Auditor CA Anil Mittal and Shri Chander Wadhwa
 CFO were in connivance with each other and payments were
 made by Shri Anil Mittal to Chander Wadhwa CFO for sharing
 fees received from Amrapali group for the work awarded to
 Anil Mittal Chander Wadhwa is one of the masterminds along
 with the other promoters directors behind the whole scam. He
 facilitated movement of funds by creating a web of companies
 within and outside the group. His relatives were made partner
 investor in LA Residentia and Heart beat city projects. Funds 18 were invested in Patel Advance JV (Neo Town project Noida)
 and Euphoria Sports City. Furthermore, it is observed that the Company
 Management as well as Statutory Auditors and CFO
 have failed in their duty to follow the Accounting
 Standards relating to recording the valuation of Work in
 Progress as per ICAI guidelines applicable to Real Estate
 Companies. It is also pointed out that the CFO has not
 signed any Audited Financial Statements for reasons
 best known to them. But according to the statement
 recorded by us of various employees and suppliers as
 well as home buyers, we are informed that he was the
 main person handling Finance and every meeting was
 held with him only. (page no 209 Volume 1)” 13. With respect to Mr. Pankaj Jain and Mr. Vaibhav Jain, Directors of

Vidhya Shree Buildcon Private Limited, the following findings have been

recorded in the Judgment: The difference has also been pointed out in a tabular
form. There were several advances, investments,
utilisations, advances made to suppliers and payments
made to Mr. Anil Sharma and Mr. Shiv Priya, Directors
of the company for professional charges, etc. It was also
pointed out that in spite of repeated reminders,
groupings have not been supplied. Grouping is a process
to indicate the process between the stage of trial
balance, balance sheet, and profit and loss account. All
files had not been handed over and Mr. Anil Mittal, the
Statutory Auditor had sent one file late in the evening.
This Court ordered that in case documents were not
handed over, the same shall be viewed seriously and
the incumbents punished suitably. The last opportunity
was granted to hand over the requisite documents to the
Forensic Auditors. We directed Statutory Auditors to
comply with the requisition made by the Forensic
Auditors. It was also noted by this Court that a sum of
Rs.242.38 crores had been handed over to Gaurisuta
Infrastructure Private Ltd., Vidhyashree Buildcon Private
Ltd., Mannat Buildcraft Private Ltd. This Court observed
in para 5 thus : o Elegant Infracon Pvt Ltd (Elegant Villa Phase I, III, & IV -
 14590 Sq Mts)
 • In the Elegant Infracon following are consortium partners with
 shareholding: 14. With respect to Vidhya Shree Buildcon Private Limited, Rs. 4,00,00,000/- (Rupees Four Crores) is the debit balance in the books of

accounts of the Amrapali Group. 15. It is apparent that a sum of Rs. 242.38 crores was handed over to Mr.

Pankaj Jain (current Director of Amrapali Group & brother of Mr. Vaibhav

Jain), the Director of Vidhya Shree Buildcon Pvt. Ltd. 16. Because of the exchange of money between Mr. Shiv Priya and Mr.

Sankalp Shukla, it is apparent that a huge exchange of money was made to

divert the money of home buyers of Amrapali Group and HBC 1 and HBC 2

are to be treated as Amrapali Projects. 17. Mr. Nishant Choubey and Mr. Santosh Choubey did not hand over the

documents as they would not have supported them. It is apparent from the

findings recorded by Forensic Auditors in their Report, and various

circumstances pointed out that the Baseline land is to be treated as that of

Amrapali Group. 18. The project was launched in the name of Amrapali Heartbeat City, and

the agreement was entered into with the Amrapali Group by the home

buyers. Cheques were issued in the name of Amrapali Heartbeat City. Letterheads of Amrapali were used for the Builder-Buyer Agreement, and

the project was mentioned as Amrapali Heartbeat City. It is true canvass to

suggest that the project was an independent project. We are unable to

accept the aforesaid findings recorded in the Report of the Forensic

Auditors. Probably, it was due to the fact that certain accounts were not

made available, however, in view of the findings recorded earlier with

respect to relationship and inter se transactions of the groups and parties,

there is no iota of doubt that HBC 1 and HBC 2 are to be treated as the

projects of Amrapali Group only and not independent projects. As per the 23 finding, the land was agreed to be sold by Baseline as per the findings

recorded in the Forensic Auditors' Report itself. The same is out of the

money generated by HBC 1, and HBC 2 projects and Baseline

Infradevelopers Pvt. Ltd. is part and parcel of HBC 1, and HBC 2 projects

and the buyers have the rights over the land and on the proceeds to be

received from the sale of the land. We accept the said finding recorded

in the Forensic Auditors Report. 19. Phase III comprises 60,000 sq.m, out of which 20,000 sq.m was

already sold to some other group, and the remaining 40,000 sq.m had been

agreed to be sold to M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited on

09.10.2017, with respect to which NCLT has passed an order in the

Company Petition No. 141 of 2012. 20. The payments due to NOIDA to be paid by the purchasers are

mentioned in Clause 1.2 of the MoU. The same is reproduced hereunder:- 21. The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was submitted before the

National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in the Company Petition

No.141/2012. The NCLT has passed the following order on 29.11.2017:- The respondents 20-24 confirm having signed the
 MOS at point A, B,C,D,E in Court. All parties are bound by
 the terms of the Compromise Exhinit C1 (Colly). Company Petition is disposed off in terms of MOS.” 22. It is conceded at the Bar that the aforesaid order of NCLT has not

been questioned in any of the proceedings and order based on the MoU

entered into between Baseline Infradevelopers Private Limited and M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited has attained finality. 23. It appears that a Writ Petition (C) No.940/2017 (Bikram Chatterjee &

Ors. V. Union of India and Ors.) was filed concerning the Amrapali

Centurian Park located at Greater Noida, in which notice was issued on

06.10.2017, which was not connected with the said plot i.e., Plot No.GH- 01/A (Alpha), Sector 107, Noida, which was the subject matter of MoU

between Baseline Infradevelopers Private Limited, and M/s. Mahagun Real

Estate Private Limited 24. On 09.10.2017, the MoU was executed between Baseline

Infradevelopers Private Limited and M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private

Limited for the transfer of the aforesaid land. On 26.03.2018, W.P.(c)

No.288/2018 was filed by Heartbeat City Homebuyers Welfare Association

concerning Plot No.GH-01/C, D, and Phase 3 Plot, which is relatable to GH- 01/A/(Alpha), the plot in dispute. On 10.05.2018, this Court directed the

promoters and builders not to make any transaction and alienation without

permission from this Court. Thus, the agreement cannot be said to be

malafide. 25. NOIDA canceled the lease deed on 07.09.2019; the press release/office

order was issued by the NOIDA stating that on account of overdue interest

and lease rent due from the Baseline Infradevelopers Private Limited, the

allotment of the plot in dispute had been canceled. The NOIDA issued the

cancellation after becoming aware that Baseline Infradevelopers Private

Limited sought to transfer the plot to M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private

Limited, as per the order passed by the NCLT in November 2017. 26. M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited has filed an application No.

1023 of 2020 that plot be transferred to NOIDA as a fresh allottee. It was

ready to make the payment/deposit on balance price consideration, which

is Rs.191,79,79,798/-, and the dues of the NOIDA may be directed to be

paid in installments. The amount payable towards completion of Heartbeat

City be directed to be paid within the time stipulated by this Court. Stamp

duty will be paid by M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited. Since there

was no failure on the part of M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited, it

should not be made liable to make the payment of overdue interest and

other charges for the period. Other reliefs have also been prayed. The

main relief pressed is with respect to the cancellation to be set aside due to

the non-payment of the overdue interest and the lease rent and permitting

the purchase of the property. 27. Shri Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

NOIDA, fairly submitted that if NOIDA is paid the outstanding amount of

lease rent and interest etc., it will restore the lease and has no objection to

sale in favour of M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited. 28. The payment of dues of NOIDA Authority has to be made as per

agreement by M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited to NOIDA, out of

sale consideration. The rate of interest on dues to be paid, concerning the

plot in question, as per order passed on 10th June 2020 as modified on 10th

July 2020. On deposit of dues of NOIDA out of sale consideration, the

cancellation of lease shall stand withdrawn and it shall grant time of 7 27 years to complete the project which is granted to a new lessee. We direct

Baseline Infradevelopers Private Limited, as per the MoU, to execute a sale

deed. However, as per MoU, out of the total sale consideration, Rs.20

Crores has been paid, and the balance amount is Rs.1917979798/-. The

agreement was entered into way back on 09.10.2017. The amount ought to

have been paid within a reasonable time, and by now, approximately 02

years 09 months have passed. Therefore, it would be equitable to direct

M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Limited to make payment of Rs.240

Crores in addition as outstanding amount would have earned the interest at

a rate of 9% to 9.25%. 29. To do complete justice, it would be appropriate to quantify the

outstanding amount be paid at Rs.240 Crores, in addition to the sum of

Rs.20 Crores that has been paid as earnest money. The dues of the NOIDA

to be paid first at first priority, and the remaining amount, which is payable

to Baseline Infradevelopers Private Limited shall be retained in the account

of the Registry of this Court, to be used for the completion of unfinished

projects of Amrapali Group. Thus, in the process at least some money

would be generated for completion of projects. 30. It was submitted by Shri M. L. Lahoty, learned counsel and Shri Gopal

Shankarnarayan, learned senior counsel, that in the brochure which was

issued by Amrapali Group, the health club was shown in the project of

Phase III, whereas now in the fresh plan, it has been shown in the area of

HBC 1 and HBC 2 itself. The builder should be held bound by the 28 brochure, which was published. Shri M.L. Lahoty, learned counsel, has

drawn our attention to Sections 12 , and 14 of the RERA and Section 5(3) of

The Uttar Pradesh Apartment (Promotion of Construction, Ownership and

Maintenance) Act. However, on a specific query made to Shri Lahoty, he

was unable to show that application for registration was filed along with the

map showing the area of the health club in Phase-III of the project. Out of

Phase-III of the Project, 20000 sq.m. has already been sold to another

person. Remaining 40000 sqm. was agreed to be sold to M/s. Mahagun

Real Estate Private Limited and the lease of plot itself has been canceled,

and it appears that an application was filed indicating the location of

health club within HBC 1 and HBC 2. In the circumstances, we find that

brochure cannot hold the field, particularly when the allotment of the plot

itself had been canceled due to non-payment of the lease rent and interest. Considering the stand taken by the NOIDA in its reply, we find that no

justification in the prayer based on the brochure, to hold that health club to

be located at the place which is not available. When health club will be

provided within the project of HBC 1 and HBC 2, it cannot be said that any

prejudice is to be caused to the home buyers. They are going to have the

same facility which was promised to be provided. Thus, we find no

hesitation to reject the aforesaid prayer made on behalf of the home buyers. Let sale deed be executed on payment of Rs.240 Crores (Rupees Two

Hundred and Forty Crores only) out of that firstly the dues of NOIDA are to

be cleared. Let the amount of Rs.240 crores (Rupees Two Hundred and 29 Forty Crores only) be deposited by M/s. Mahagun Real Estate Private Ltd. in

the Registry of this Court within six weeks from this date. NOIDA shall

indicate its dues within 15 days. After the amount as aforesaid is

deposited, the Sale Deed be executed by NOIDA and M/s. Baseline

Infradevelopers Private Limited in favour of M/s. Mahagun Real Estates

Private Ltd. A copy of the Sale Deed be filed in the Registry of this Court,

whereafter the Registry shall remit the amount representing dues of NOIDA,

and the balance shall be retained and utilized for completion of projects. ………………….…..J.
 (Arun Mishra)

 …………………..….J.
 (Uday Umesh Lalit)
July 28, 2020. New Delhi;