SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Indian Art Schools are joke
DATE: 2019-11-15
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dwgn8q/indian_art_schools_are_joke/

--- POST TEXT ---

A little side note, this post is not meant to offend or hurt anybody that is studying in art schools or practicing different arts or humanities. All these are based on assumptions and observation I made while leaning on my chair and researching things over the internet.

Art schools are expensive more than a regular college tuition fee. People are put on a conveyor belt for the whole 5 yrs time and then they are asked to join work at an untalented white guy who is only good at being popular. The part where creativity is induced or influenced is downright looked upon. Degree is worthless students get out of the college wanting to do something new/unique to their style representing their cultures, their belief, their imagination but are fired for thinking or doing something risky or new. There is everything standardized about what is to be done or your art must follow rules, called to have boundaries or just follow what the mainstream people have already done. Copy that. 

Nowadays people are taking a shorter path at doing thing. Whatever is popular gets recreated over and over till you start feeling choked on to your throat. For example there was a whole Tumblr wave on social media and Instagram where people were posting filtered pictures with a text quote here and there. Every girl that was into art suddenly became that aesthetic hoe. Indian students are loosing individuality there are struct between whether to keep on studying about someone else's culture or about the Indian culture what made them different in the first place or to even study about art in general. These colleges are not doing what they were supposed to do in the first place.

There is this cultural appropriation thing, students after learning from top colleges when apply these westerner principle or styles in real life, face backlash; they see the art style what was praised in the college is under performing or in simple words can not connect to masses which it was intent to. 

The art books are basically designed to cater to western masses while Indians and Indian Art is ignored. Students just study about Italian Renaissance more than they know anything Indian related. These schools were established as to preserve our rich heritage and art so that new generations would come and contribute to it. These schools are scam they should remove Indian from their names. Students are learning a bunch of dumb shit which has already been done and studied over hundred times. 

Art schools should work on making students creative having knowledge about everything. Courses must be design in such a manner that bring out the creativity, how to observe details and uses them in development of your own style . Art in my opinion is about perceptive showing that direction or expression through different medium.

In my opinion, Art colleges should give more freedom than having a set of rules for art. Let the students develop his personal image/style/skills irrespective of what syllabus says. These things only restrict imagination. Restricting imagination means restricting possibilities. Teach students how to have an individualistic mindset rather than following.