Global internet freedom declined for the 11th consecutive year with the highest deterioration documented in Myanmar, Belarus, and Uganda where the State cracked down on the internet amid constitutional and electoral crises, said a report by Freedom House.

As for India, Freedom House termed the country ‘partly free’ and scored it 48 out of 100 — with 100 being the ‘most free’. To put things in perspective, Iceland scored the highest with 96 and China was last with 10 out of 100.

The report titled ‘Freedom On the Net 2021: The Global Drive to Control Big Tech’ gives insight as to how a growing number of governments across the world are asserting their authority over tech firms, often forcing businesses to comply with online censorship and surveillance. “These developments have contributed to an unprecedented assault on free expression online, causing global internet freedom to decline for a 11th consecutive year,” Adrian Shahbad and Allie Funk of Freedom House said in the report.

These are some of the report’s key findings —

Authorities in at least 24 countries passed or announced new laws or rules governing how platforms treat content… The most problematic measures may result in increased censorship of political dissent, investigative reporting, and expressions of ethnic, religious, sexual, or gender identity, particularly among marginalized communities — Freedom House report

India : The Information Technology Rules 2021 which include obligations for significant social media intermediaries find a mention in the report. Freedom House said that these obligations will “curb companies’ willingness to push back against state censorship requests that do not meet international human right standard”.

Turkey : Turkey’s new social media regulations came into effect in October 2020, the report said. Platforms with over a million daily users are required to remove content deemed “offensive” within 48 hours of being notified, or risk escalating penalties including fines, advertising bans, and limitations on bandwidth, the report said citing the Turkish law.

Indonesia: Indonesia’s Ministerial Regulation 5, enacted in November 2020, imposes new take-down and registration requirements on a broad array of tech companies regardless of their size, including social media apps, content-sharing services, and search engines, the report said. “Those not in compliance with the new regulation risk a range of penalties that include blocking and revocation of licenses,” it said.

Russia: A January 2021 law introduced new fines for websites and platforms that fail to remove content the state deems “illegal,” while a February law reinforced platforms’ obligations to identify and remove banned content and required them to coordinate with the federal regulator, Roskomnadzor, regarding content moderation decisions, the report said.

In at least 38 of the 70 countries assessed this year, governments initiated legal or administrative reforms affecting tech companies’ management of user data… The governments seeking information are now attempting to sidestep these jurisdictional barriers by forcing companies to store data on servers based within their borders, surrender personal data to law enforcement agencies with limited oversight, and circumvent the encryption of private communications — Freedom House report

Vietnam: The report pointed out Vietnam’s Cybersecurity Law, which expands requirements for large and small online platforms to store data on Vietnamese servers, including users’ names, birth dates, nationality, identity cards, credit card numbers, biometric files, and health records.

According to the report, companies should —

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event