This is an application for bail filed under Section 439 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short 'the Code'). 2. The petitioner is the first accused in the case registered

as Crime No.240/2021 of the Museum Police Station. 3. The case was registered against the accused initially

under Sections 408 , 417 and 420 read with 34 of the Indian

Penal Code , 1860. Subsequently, the investigating officer filed

report in the court concerned for continuing the investigation into

the offences punishable under Section 13(1)(a) of the Prevention

of Corruption Act, 1988 (as amended by Act 16 of 2018) and also

under Sections 465 , 468 , 471 and 120B of the IPC. B.A.No.6161/2021 3 4. The prosecution case is as follows : The petitioner, who is

the first accused, was the Senior Clerk in the Office of the

Scheduled Caste Development (SCD), Thiruvananthapuram

Corporation. There are various schemes formulated by the

Government for improving the social conditions of persons who

belong to scheduled castes. The applications received for

monetary relief from such persons would be processed in the

SCD office and recommendation would be made to the Scheduled

Caste Development Officer for sanctioning money in eligible

cases. The money sanctioned would be passed for payment by

the treasury and it would be transferred to the bank accounts of

the beneficiaries through Bill Information Management System.

The bank account numbers of the beneficiaries are being entered

in the SCD office. The petitioner was the person in the SCD office

who was in charge of receiving the applications and processing

the same. Accused 2 to 11 are close relatives or friends of the

petitioner. The fourth accused was a Clerk in the SCD office and

the fifth and the eleventh accused were Scheduled Caste B.A.No.6161/2021 4 Promoters. Pursuant to a conspiracy hatched by the accused

persons, the petitioner incorporated the bank account numbers of

accused 2 to 11 in the applications and using such applications,

he got transferred a total amount of Rs.79,52,693/- to their bank

accounts. Thereafter, with the connivance of accused 2 to 11, the

petitioner withdrew that amount and misappropriated it. Thus,

the accused siphoned out money which was intended to be paid

to the poor and needy persons and cheated those persons and

also the Government. 5. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned

Public Prosecutor. 6. The petitioner is in custody from 09.07.2021 onwards.

This is the second application for regular bail filed by the

petitioner. The first application for regular bail filed by him was

dismissed by this Court on 02.08.2021. This second application

for the same relief was filed by him on 06.08.2021. 7. The law relating to successive bail applications is well-

settled. An accused has right to make successive applications for B.A.No.6161/2021 5 grant of bail. But, the Court entertaining such subsequent bail

applications has a duty to consider the reasons and grounds on

which the earlier bail applications were rejected. In such cases,

the Court also has a duty to record what are the fresh grounds

which persuade it to take a view different from the one taken in

the earlier applications (See Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh

Ranjan : AIR 2004 SC 1866). 8. A bail application in a case where earlier applications

have been rejected is maintainable only when there is a change

in the fact situation or in law which requires the earlier view

being interfered with or where the earlier finding has become

obsolete (See Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Pappu Yadav : AIR

2005 SC 921). 9. The earlier application for bail filed by the petitioner was

dismissed, by stating as follows, but for other reasons also. 10. There could not have been any change in the above

situation within four days since the dismissal of the first

application for bail filed by the petitioner. However, when the

present application came up for hearing two weeks ago, learned

counsel for the petitioner requested to postpone the

consideration of the application to another date. 11. By this time, material witnesses in the case should

have been questioned by the investigating officer. There was

sufficient time also for collecting crucial documents which are

relevant to prove the offences. Apprehension of the prosecution

that the petitioner may abscond on getting bail can be met with

by imposing appropriate conditions. Deposit of cash or furnishing

bank guarantee equal to a portion of the misappropriated amount

can also be insisted. 7 12. In the above circumstances, I am of the view that bail

can be granted to the petitioner, if he is ready to deposit money

or to furnish bank guarantee which is equal to half of the amount

allegedly embezzled by him through the bank accounts of his

wife and other close relatives. 13. In Sumit Mehta v. State : (2013) 15 SCC 570, it has

been held that it is not totally impermissible for the Court to

insist on deposit of cash as a condition for granting bail in cases

of cheating, electricity pilferage, white-collar crimes or chit fund

scams etc. 14. In Bharat Stars Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Harsh Dev

Thakur : AIR 2019 SC 718, having found that the financial

fraud involved in the case was around Rs.2.75 crores, the

Supreme Court enhanced the security to be furnished by the

accused for releasing him on bail and ordered that the accused

shall furnish security for a further amount of Rs.75 lakhs, in

addition to Rs. 50 lakhs deposit, as directed by the High Court. B.A.No.6161/2021 8 15. In Tridhara Mohanty v. State of Odisha : AIR 2021

SC 2712, the Supreme Court did not find that the order passed

by the High Court directing the accused to deposit cash/furnish

bank guarantee as illegal but modified the condition regarding

furnishing of cash security for about Rs.90 lakhs and directed the

accused to offer properties valuing at least three crores by way of

security to the satisfaction of the trial court as a condition for

releasing the accused on bail and further directed that the

properties so offered shall be available for such processes or

orders as the Court may deem fit to pass at the conclusion of the

proceedings. 16. In State of Bihar v. Divesh Kumar Chaudhary : 17. The statement filed by the investigating officer shows

that the amount misappropriated by the petitioner through the

bank accounts of his wife and close relatives alone comes to

more than Rs.42 lakhs. Considering this fact, I find that, as a

condition for releasing the petitioner on bail, it is expedient to

direct that he shall deposit an amount of Rs.20 lakhs or furnish

bank guarantee for that amount. 18. Consequently, the application for bail is allowed and it is

directed that the petitioner shall be released on bail on the

following conditions. (Rupees fifty thousand only) with two solvent sureties each for

the like amount to the satisfaction of the jurisdictional court

concerned. 2) The petitioner shall not influence or intimidate the

prosecution witnesses. He shall not make any attempt to tamper

with the evidence in the case. 10 3) The petitioner shall appear before the investigating

officer as and when directed in writing to do so. 4) The petitioner shall surrender his passport in the

Court concerned within three days of his release on bail. If he

does not possess any passport or if he has deposited the

passport in the court in connection with any other case, he shall

file an affidavit to that effect in the Court concerned within that

period. 5) The petitioner shall not leave the State of Kerala

without the prior permission of the jurisdictional court concerned. 6) The petitioner shall deposit Rs.20 lakhs in the trial

court or furnish bank guarantee from a nationalised bank for that

amount to the satisfaction of the jurisdictional court. If cash

deposit is made, the court shall deposit it in a nationalised bank

for an appropriate term so as to avoid loss of interest on the

amount. 11 7) If the petitioner violates any of the conditions of

bail, it is open to the jurisdictional court concerned to cancel the

bail without any further orders from this Court but in accordance

with law. 19. If for any reason, the petitioner does not avail the

benefit of this order, he is at liberty to move the jurisdictional

court for default bail as and when he is entitled to do so. In case

the jurisdictional court then finds that he is entitled to get

default/statutory bail, cash deposit shall not be insisted as a

condition for releasing him on such bail. (sd/-) R.NARAYANA PISHARADI, JUDGE

jsr B.A.No.6161/2021 12 APPENDIX IN B.A.NO.6161 OF 2021

PETITIONER'S ANNEXURES: