What’s the news: As many as six out of 10 Indians reported personal data breach by their loan service providers while four in 10 citizens blamed insurance service providers, said Local Circles, a community social media platform, in a report published on November 17, 2022.

Earlier, citizens via the platform expressed that “the last mile interface” of financial institutions and telecom companies were the “top offenders” in compromising personal data. As per the report, Local Circles surveyed 41,000 citizens across 319 districts to study similar worries of the public.

“Local Circles decided to conduct a detailed study on the financial sector from a data privacy breach standpoint so concerns and experiences of citizens across the country can be quantified and used as an input in the formation of the law,” said the platform.

Why it matters: In August, the government withdrew the Personal Data Protection Bill and announced plans for a new version of the document. On November 18, the fourth version of the Bill was released. However, it had little to nothing to say about data breaches. In the meanwhile, people are becoming more aware about the lack of data protection regulation in India. Particularly, this report shows how the lack of governance is impacting the financial sector of India.

Citizens suspect service providers and employees: When asked, 53 percent of 10,173 respondents stated “service providers of these entities sell and/or share personal data”. Another group of 43 percent respondents felt “entities themselves sell/ or share personal data.”

As many as 38 percent respondents suspected employees of these companies to be the source of leak, while 33 percent respondents said the leak was due to entities sharing data with government agencies.

Citizens say system not secure against cyber theft: Another 33 percent respondents felt that the information was compromised because the systems of these entities “are not secure and thus subject to cyber thefts.” Five percent respondents believed data breach can happen through other means and eight percent respondents said they were not sure why personal data breach happens. Many respondents selected more than one option about reasons for personal data breach.

Highlights of the survey

Most common complaints are alternate loan offers: The survey said 59 percent of citizens with existing loans received detailed alternate offers regarding their existing loans in the last five years. Of the 10,980 respondents for this query, 33 percent said they were approached with such offers multiple times. Another 26 percent of respondents said it happened once or twice while 41 percent said they never received such offers. Moreover, loan terms can be anywhere ranging from a couple of months to even 10 years in case of home loans.

“This indicates a massive data breach as the sender has access to an individual’s personal loan data which is being used to send unsolicited loan offers,” said Local Circles.

Insurance offers hint sharing of PAN, Aadhaar data: 40 percent of 10,665 respondents surveyed confirmed that they were approached for alternate offers on their insurance policy. Of these, 30 percent respondents said they were approached several times. Of the remaining respondents, 55 percent said they had never received such offers. As per the survey, this indicated that unknown persons have access to the surveyed citizens’ PAN, Aadhaar details, amount of insurance, premium and policy expiration.

34 percent respondents received alternate bank account offers: In the last five years, 34 percent of 10,101 respondents with existing bank account(s) admitted receiving alternate offers. Out of them, 23 percent were approached several times. However, 60 percent said they never received such offers while 6 percent respondents were non-committal.

In August this year, Bhagwat Karad, Union Minister of State for Finance, told Parliament that data fraud amounting to ₹ 6,861 crore was reported by private and public sector banks in the first quarter of the current financial year. The Parliament was informed that Indian banks reported 248 data breaches between June 2018 and March 2022 resulting in theft of business and personal information mostly due to card detail leakage. Of the 248 data breaches, 41 were reported by public sector banks, 205 by private sector banks and two by foreign banks, the minister said. Citizens whose data got compromised by loan agencies, insurance companies and banks believe it was due to their weak data protection governance internally and externally, said the report.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event