- 1. Story of the prosecution in brief is as under: 2. After completion of investigation, final report under Section 173 Cr.PC was filed and charge under Section 489B IPC has been framed

against accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah and charge under Section

489C has been framed against all the accused persons on 26.09.2013.

Amended charge has been framed against accused Nagina Prasad and

Bipin Pandey under Section 489C IPC on 06.08.2015. 3. In order to establish the liability of accused persons,

prosecution has examined 9 witnesses. Statements of the accused

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.3/32 
 persons U/s 313 Cr.PC were recorded on 28.11.2014 and additional

statement of accused Nagina Prasad with regard to certain remaining

questions was again recorded on 10.07.2015. All the accused persons

were willing to lead their evidence in their defence which was allowed

and they have examined 6 witnesses in their defence. 4. Before proceeding further, as per mandate laid down under Section 354 (1) Cr.PC following are the points of determination which are

necessary to consider in order to arrive at a conclusion. It is mentioned

here that charge has been framed under Section 489B & 489C IPC. The

points of determination, therefore, are as under: SC no.:­28222/16             State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors       Page no.4/32 
 The first point of determination is: 5. (i) Whether accused Arjun Shama and accused Parma
Shah were found selling or buying or have received from any
other person forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes
knowing or having reason to believe the same to be counterfeit
currency and they were indulged into trafficking of counterfeit
currency using the same as genuine knowing or having reason to
believe to be forged or counterfeit? With regard to the first point of determination, the prosecution

has to establish beyond reasonable doubt that accused Arjun Sharma

and Parma Shah were selling or buying or receiving or indulged into

trafficking of counterfeit currency notes using the same as genuine

knowing or having reason to believe to be forged or counterfeited. In this

regard, as the charge against accused persons namely Arjun Sharma and

Parma Shah is under Section 489B IPC, therefore, the law pertaining

thereto is relevant to mention here. Section 489B IPC reads as under: Using as genuine, forged or counterfeit
 currency-notes or bank-notes. --- Whoever sells
 to, or buys or receives from, any other person, or
 otherwise traffics in or uses as genuine, any forged or
 counterfeit currency-note or bank-note, knowing or
 having reason to believe the same to be forged or
 counterfeit, shall be punished with [imprisonment for
 life], or with imprisonment of either description for a

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.5/32 
 term which may extend to ten years, and shall also
 be liable to fine. 6. In order to establish the charge under Section 489B IPC, the

prosecution must prove; (I) that the currency-note or bank-note in question

 was forged or counterfeit. (ii) that the accused sold to, or bought or received

 from, some person, or trafficked in, or used as

 genuine, such currency-note or bank-note. (iii) that when he did so he knew or had reason to

 believe that it was forged or counterfeit. 7. Thus, to establish the ingredients of Section 489B IPC,

prosecution has examined a number of witnesses. The entire incident started from receiving some information

from a secret informer by PW-1 ASI Yashpal Singh who has stated that on

11.03.2013, at about 10:30 am, he received a secret information from a

informer that two persons had come from District Betia, Bihar along with

fake currency with intension to circulate the same. It was further

informed that they will leave Delhi at 12:30 pm after handing over the

supply. This information was intimated to Senior Officer Inspector Anand

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.6/32 
 Singh who discussed the same with concerned ACP and permission to

conduct raid was granted. 8. It is further stated by PW-1 that a raiding party was constituted

comprising of HC Shailender, HC Sunil, Ct. Anand Pal, Ct. Ravinder and

Ct. Praveen Kumar. PW-1 along with raiding party and secret informer,

proceeded in two separate vehicles and at about 10:30 am, they reached

at Ajmeri Gate from the side of New Delhi Railway Station. They asked

public persons to act as witness but none came forward. PW-1 further

stated that at about 12:30 pm (noon) two persons came from the side of

exit gate of New Delhi Railway Station and secret informer pointed that

they were the same persons who had come to circulate the fake currency

notes. Thereafter, secret informer left the spot. Those two persons were

apprehended by PW-1 with the help of other police officials and their

names were revealed as Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah. From the search

of accused Arjun Sharma, a bag was found containing fake currency

notes and upon checking, they were found to be 199 notes in

denomination of Rs.1000/-. These notes were found to fake. They were

sealed accordingly vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/A. Accused Arjun Sharma

also put his signatures on seizure memo. 9. Thereafter, accused Parma Shah was search and from his

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.7/32 
 possession three bundles of Rs.500/- denomination were recovered from

his right pocket of Cargo pants. These notes were counted and found to

be 302 in number and they all were fake. These notes were also seized

vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/B. Accused Parma Shah put his signatures on

the seizure memo. On the basis of these facts, rukka Ex.PW1/C was

prepared and sent through Ct. Ravinder for registration of FIR. SI

Prabhanshu also reached at the spot. Investigation of the case was

handed over to him. Accused persons and case property along with

relevant documents were also handed over to SI Prabhanshu. SI

Prabhanshu prepared site plan Ex.PW1/D. 10. PW-1 has not been examined from the side of accused

Satender and Nagina Prasad. On behalf of accused Arjun Sharma, his

Counsel asked as to how PW-1 came to know that currency notes were

fake for which it is replied that he verified by himself and found that the

paper of the note was little thick. 11. PW-2 is HC Sushil Kumar who was working as Duty Officer at

Crime Branch. He received a rukka Ex.PW1/A through Ct. Ravinder and

recorded DD no.20A as well as thereafter, FIR no.46/2013 Ex.PW2/A. FIR

along with rukka was handed over to Ct. Ravinder. 12. The next witness examined by the prosecution is PW-5 ASI

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.8/32 
 Shailender Singh who was a member of raiding team along with ASI

Yashpal Singh and HC Shiv Kumar, Ct. Anand, Ct. Praveen, Ct. Ravinder

as well as secret informer. ASI Yashpal had informed raiding team that

information is received regarding delivery of fake currency notes by two

persons at New Delhi Railway Station. It is stated by PW-5 that at about

10:15 am, along with all the members of raiding party and secret

members, he left in two vehicles and reached at New Delhi Railway

Station towards Ajmeri Gate side. They reached near Metro Gate no.1

where ASI Yashpal 4-5 public persons to join but none agreed. At about

12:30 noon, two persons came from the side of New Delhi Railway

Station exit gate. At the instance of secret informer, they both were

apprehended whose names were revealed as Arjun Sharma and Parma

Shah. Public gathered there but none came forward and joined as

witness. Accused Arjun Sharma was carrying a bag hanging on his

shoulder and when it was checked, two bundles of Rs.1000/- rupee

denomination were found and upon counting, they were 199 in number. These notes were sealed vide memo Ex.PW1/A. 13. Thereafter, accused Parma Shah was searched and from the

pocket of his Cargo Pants, three bundles of notes of Rs.500/-

denomination were recovered and they were found to be 302. These

notes were also seized vide memo Ex.PW1/B. Bag of accused Arjun

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.9/32 
 Sharma was also taken into possession vide memo Ex.PW5/A. Rukka was

prepared by ASI Yashpal and handed over the same to Ct. Ravinder for

registration of FIR. Further investigation was marked to SI Prabhanshu

who reached at the spot. ASI Yashpal handed over the accused and case

property along with relevant documents to SI Prabhanshu. Accused Arjun

Sharma and Parma Shah were arrested vide arrest memos Ex.PW5/B and

Ex.PW5/C respectively. Both accused persons made their disclosure

statements. Disclosure statement of accused Arjun Sharma is Ex.PW5/F

and of accused Parma Shah is Ex.PW5/G. 14. It is further stated by PW-5 that on 13.04.2013, he along with

SI Prabhanshu, Inspector Anand Singh, ASI Baljeet, ASI Jagdish and HC

Shiv Kumar went to District Betia, Bihar and apprehended accused Bipin

Pandey and Nagina Prasad at about 11:30 noon. Upon their search,

accused Bipin Pandey was found carrying 25 notes of Rs.1000/-

denomination and accused Nagina Prasad was found carrying 35 notes of

Rs.1000/- denomination. The currency notes recovered from the

possession of accused Bipin Pandey were seized vide memo Ex.PW5/H

and the notes recovered from the possession of accused Nagina Prasad

were seized vide memo Ex.PW5/J. Accused Bipin Pandey was arrested

vide arrest memo ex.PW5/K and accused Nagina Prasad was arrested

vide memo Ex.PW5/L. Accused Bipin Pandey made disclosure statement

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.10/32 
 Ex.PW5/P and accused Nagina Prasad made disclosure statement

Ex.PW5/Q. On 24.04.2013, IO went to Govt. Press, Dewas for obtaining

the report regarding fake currency notes. 15. During cross-examination, it is stated by PW-5 that he did not

see any of the accused persons handing over or taking over fake

currency to and from any person when they reached New Delhi Railway

Station. No material contradiction has emerged from the cross-

examination of this witness and he has corroborated what he had stated

in his examination-in-chief. 16. The next witness examined by the prosecution is PW-6 ASI

Baljit who was part of investigation since 13.03.2013. This witness is

instrumental in the arrest of accused Satender. Accused Satender was

arrested at the instance of accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah. It is

stated that upon search of accused Satender, 40 currency notes in

denomination of Rs.100/- in a bundle were recovered from right side

pocket of his pants. These notes were sealed vide seizure memo

Ex.PW6/A. Accused Satender was arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW6/B

and his personal search memo is ExPW6/C. Disclosure statement of

accused Satender is Ex.PW6/D. PW-6 along with other police officials

went to Batia Bihar in search of accused Bipin Pandey and Nagina Prasad

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.11/32 
 on 10.04.2013. On 13.04.2013 accused Bipin Pandey and Nagina Prasad

were apprehended. It is stated by PW-6 that from the possession of

accused Bipin Pandey 25 currency notes in denomination of Rs.1000/-

were recovered from right side pocket of his pants which were found to

be fake. They were seized vide memo Ex.PW5/H. Accused Bipin Pandey

was arrested vide memo Ex.PW5/K. No material contradiction has

emerged from the cross-examination of this witness as he has

corroborated what he had stated in his examination-in-chief. 17. The next witness examined by the prosecution is PW-8 Ct.

Ravinder who has stated that on 11.03.2013, he was part of the raiding

team which was including ASI Yashpal, HC Shailender, HC Shiv Kumar, Ct.

Praveen, Ct. Anand Pal along with secret informer. It is stated by PW-8

that when they reached New Delhi Railway Station, at about 12:30 pm

they apprehended two persons upon suspicion of having fake currency

notes. They were apprehended, whose names were revealed as Arjun

Sharma and Parma Shah. None of the public person joined the

investigation despite request. There were 199 currency notes in

denomination of Rs.1000/- found from accused Arjun Sharma and three

bundles of currency notes in denomination of Rs.500/- each were

recovered from the possession of accused Parma Shah. FIR was

registered thereafter and case property was deposited with MHC(M).

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.12/32 18. During cross-examination of PW-8, one suggestion has been

given which is contrary to the defence of accused persons, it is

mentioned as under,

 ".........It is wrong to suggest that the notes were not counted at

 the spot but was counted in the car." This suggestion counters the defence of accused persons that

no currency was recovered from the spot and it implies as if accused

persons were suggesting that the notes so recovered were not counted

at the spot but in the car. There are minor variations being reflected from

the cross-examination as to whether PW-8 had gone to police station

along with rukka by metro or bus. This variation or contradiction,

however, is not so material that it impeach the credit worthiness of this

witness as a whole. 19. Next witness examined by the prosecution is PW-9 Vishal

Gaurav who is Nodal officer at Bharti Airtel and he brought record

pertaining to mobile no.9560494532 which is stated to be in the name of

one Satender, as per their record. Along with Customer Application Form,

the identity proof in the form of Election Identity Card is also annexed.

This witness also brought record pertaining to mobile no.9572042555

which is stated to be in the name of one Nagina Prasad, as per their

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.13/32 
 record. Along with Customer Application Form, the identity proof in the

form of Election Identity Card is also annexed. He further brought record

pertaining to mobile no.9939970199 which is stated to be in the name of

one Arjun Thakur, as per their record. Along with Customer Application

Form, the identity proof in the form of Election Identity Card is also

annexed. 20. PW-9 further brought record pertaining to mobile

no.9801943570 which is stated to be in the name of one Bipin Pandey, as

per their record. Along with Customer Application Form, the identity proof

in the form of Election Identity Card is also annexed. He further brought

record pertaining to mobile no.9546417830 which is stated to be in the

name of one Bipin Pandey, as per their record. Along with Customer

Application Form, the identity proof in the form of Election Identity Card

is also annexed. PW-9 further placed on record the call details of these

mobile numbers. He further brought record pertaining to mobile

no.8809546764 which is stated to be in the name of one Parma Shah, as

per their record. Along with Customer Application Form, the identity proof

in the form of Election Identity Card is also annexed. 21. It is alleged on behalf of the prosecution while examining PW-9

that all the accused persons were in constant touch with each other on

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.14/32 
 the day of incident and before as well as thereafter. No material

contradiction has emerged from the cross-examination of this witness as

he has corroborated what he had stated in his examination-in-chief. 22. PW-4 is HC Jag Narain who was working as MHC(M) PS Crime

Branch during March, April and May 2013. It is stated by him that case

property duly sealed were deposited in the Malkhana. PW-4 further

stated that during his tenure case property remained intact and was not

tampered with. 23. PW-3 is Ct. Lokesh with regard to depositing the case property

at Govt. Press, Dewas for expert opinion. It is stated by him that on

10.04.2013 he reached Malkhana PS Crime Branch and collected three

exhibits to deposit the same at Dewas. He reached at Dewas at

11.04.2013 and deposited the exhibits with Govt. Press, Dewas. It is

stated by him that so long as the case property remained in his custody

it was not tampered with by anyone. 24. The last witness in the series is PW-7 SI Prabhanshu who is the

second IO and who took charge of the present case from PW-1 ASI

Yashpal Singh. PW-7 was the part of the team till filing of the charge-

sheet before the Court. He had conducted all the remaining investigation

after ASI Yashpal Singh. Accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah were

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.15/32 
 already apprehended by ASI Yashpal Singh and all other accused have

been arrested by PW-7 including conducting the investigation. All the

facts alleged by PW-7 during his examination have been stated by all the

witnesses already, as mentioned above. Therefore, PW-7 is corroborating

all the facts stated by other witnesses which are not repeated here for

the sake of brevity. 25. Before proceeding further, it is important to discuss the

relevant law pertaining to fake currency. The relevant provisions, as

mentioned above, starts from Section 489A which talks about

counterfeiting the currency note or bank note. It is not the case of

prosecution that accused persons have counterfeit the currency which

means a process by which one thing is caused to resemble another thing

and its supposes that there is an original. Section 489B IPC which is

attracted against accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah talks about

selling or buying or receiving counterfeit currency note or bank note from

any other person or one traffics in or uses as genuine, any such fake

currency, having knowledge or reason to believe the same to be forged

or counterfeit is liable for punishment. Thus, the most essential

ingredient for attracting the liability of a person under Section 489B IPC

is that there is either 'knowledge' or 'reason to believe'. Mere suspicion

or doubt is not sufficient for fastening liability under Section 489B or

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.16/32 
 489C IPC . 26. It has been held in case titled as "Kurukshetra Sena" 2011

Cr.LJ 2493 (CHH) that where evidence showed that the appellants were

having definite knowledge of fake currency notes which were in their

possession, they would be liable to be convicted under Section 489B and 489C IPC of the Code. Suspicion whether notes were genuine will not

amounts to sufficient cause to believe. The word 'believed' is a very

much stronger word than 'suspect' and it involves the necessity of

showing that the circumstances were such that a reasonable man must

have felt convinced in his mind that the note with which he was dealing

was a forged one and it was not sufficient to show that accused was

careless or he has reason to suspect or that he did not make sufficient

inquiry to ascertain the fact. When, therefore, a person in the usual

course of business gets a currency note which he finds to be suspicious

and tried to get rid of it, he would not be guilty either under Section 489B or 489C IPC . Similar observations have been made in case titled as

"Hamid Ali" AIR 1961 trip 46. 27. In another case titled as "Mammutti M." AIR 1979 SC 1705,

it has been observed that presumption of knowledge from mere

possession can only be drawn if the notes were apparently counterfeit. If,

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.17/32 
 the notes were not of such nature, then order of conviction is quashed.

Therefore, the prosecution would succeed not only when the evidence is

placed on record to show that the accused had knowledge about the

currency notes being forged or counterfeit notes, but it will also succeed

if the circumstances are brought on record, irresistibly and clearly leading

to an inference that the accused has reason to believe that the currency

notes found in his possession were forged or fake. The collateral

circumstances, such as the bulk of fake currency notes, the mixture of

fake currency notes, the palming of such notes quickly and the fact that

accused, by no stretch of imagination could be said to be a lay man or an

uneducated man, are sufficient to infer that the accused has reason to

believe that the currency notes with him were fake or counterfeit. Similar

observations have been made in "Abdul Fakirsaheb Mamtule" 2001

Cr.LJ 3396 (Bombay). 28. On the contrary, where there was no clear evidence which

showed that the accused transacted the business with the party having

known that the currency notes were fake and prima facie such currency

notes did not appear to be counterfeit, the accused would be entitled to

acquittal. It has been held in " State Vs. Rafiq Mohd. " 2012 Cr.LJ (NOC)

323 (HP) (DB),. Thus, apart from the essential ingredients of Section 489B IPC,

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.18/32 
 there are two other requirements which are required to be established by

the prosecution, are, (a) the fake notes are appearing to be counterfeit,

and (b) accused transacted the business with the party having known

that the currency notes were fake. 29. The evidence led by prosecution, as mentioned above, is,

therefore, analyzed in the light of above mentioned ingredients. So far

as, the currency which is alleged to have been recovered from Arjun

Sharma and Parma Shah is fake currency, has not been questioned by

accused persons. The report with regard to the currency being fake, is

placed on record, has not been disputed by any of the accused persons,

nor there is any suggestion that any such thing was not recovered from

their possession nor it is the case of accused Arjun Sharma or accused

Parma Shah or any of the remaining accused nor it is alleged by any of

the accused persons that the currency which was recovered from them

was not fake or it was belonging to them and they were possessing the

same without any knowledge or intention that it was 'fake / counterfeit

currency'. 30. With regard to the first ingredient that the currency note or

bank note in question was forged or counterfeit, therefore, there is no

dispute. With regard to the second ingredient that accused had sold or

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.19/32 
 bought or received from some person or trafficked in or used as genuine

such currency, the evidence led by the prosecution, in my considered

opinion, do not seem to inspire the confidence of any of its witness. The

reason for this presumption is that as per the story of prosecution itself

accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah were held on the spot by PW-1

ASI Yashpal Singh and his associates / other police officials. It has not

been said by any of the prosecution witness that such currency i.e.

recovery of 199 notes in denomination of Rs.1000/- from accused Arjun

Sharma and recovery of 302 notes in denomination of Rs.500/- from

accused Parma Shah were sold or purchased or received from some

person or they were being handed over or trafficked in or used as

genuine by them. As per the story of prosecution and evidence led by its

witnesses, itself speaks about that both these accused persons i.e. Arjun

Sharma and Parma Shah were apprehended on the spot when they were

pointed out by the secret informer that they were the persons who were

carrying counterfeit currency. There is no evidence that any other person

was found on the spot by the police team, i.e. PW-1 ASI Yashpal and his

associates, who was either seller or purchaser or receiver of such

currency. 31. It is needless to say that secret information received by police

unless until is reduced into writing and takes the form of document and

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.20/32 
 also approved by higher police officials, cannot be said to be relevant as

there is a provision as per the Indian Evidence Act , that any such secret

information cannot be subject to examination on the point of its source or

the person from whom it is received. In other words, any evidence which

cannot be brought or corroborated, as per record, is not admissible as

per the Indian Evidence Act . A special sanctity, however, has been

assigned to such secret information or secret informer that any

investigation conduct on the basis of such information, if supported with

subsequent evidence and document, then it is relevant and admissible. 32. Proceeding further, as already stated above, as per the story of

prosecution, when accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah were seen at

Metro Gate no.1, New Delhi Railway Station, they were apprehended

immediately. There is no other evidence available nor alleged by any of

the prosecution witness nor it is the story of prosecution that any other

person besides accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah were found at the

spot to whom / from them, they had to sell or purchase or receive such

fake currency. Thus, the most essential ingredient which is required to be

established for Section 489B IPC is missing here and not established by

any of the prosecution witness nor it is forming part of the story of

prosecution as well. Therefore, as the most essential ingredient of Section 489B IPC is not present in the story of the prosecution itself, then

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.21/32 
 the charge under Section 489B IPC cannot stand against accused Arjun

Sharma and Parma Shah. It is needless to say that disclosure statement

of any of the accused persons including accused Arjun Sharma and

Parma Shah, is not admissible in evidence unless until there is any

recovery as per Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act. For the aspect of

recovery, it shall be discussed under the second point of determination

qua the charge under Section 489C IPC. In terms of these observations,

the first point of determination is decided accordingly. 33. The second point of determination is: The charge so framed against all the accused persons is under Section 489C IPC which is pertaining to possession of forged or

counterfeit currency. Section 489C IPC reads as under: 34. Essential ingredients of this section reads as under: 35. It is important to mention here that mere possession of forged

or counterfeit notes is not an offence under Penal Code. Where the

currency notes in possession of the accused are found to be of such a

nature that a mere look at them would not convince any person of

average intelligence that they are counterfeit notes, the presumption that

the notes in his possession were counterfeit cannot be drawn. Similar

observations have been made in case "Mammutti M."(supra). 36. Thus, in order to establish the liability of the accused,

prosecution must prove that; (a) The currency note or bank not in question was

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.23/32 
 forged or counterfeit. (b) That the accused was in possession of it. (c) That he at the time of his possession knew or had
 reason to believe that it was forged or counterfeited. (d) That he intended to use a genuine or that it might
 be used as genuine. 37. The onus lies on the prosecution to prove circumstances which

lead clearly indubitably and irresistibly to the inference that the accused

had the intention to foist the notes on the public. Such intention can be

proved by collateral circumstances, such as, that the accused has palmed

off such notes before, or that he was in possession of such and similar

notes in such large numbers that his possession for any other purpose is

inexplicable. It has been observed in Bur Singh AIR 1931 Lah. 24. 38. It is a matter of record that there is no evidence available on

record that all the accused persons had earlier palmed off such notes or

they were in possession of such and similar notes in such large numbers.

As per charge-sheet, the notes, which are stated to have been recovered

from the possession of accused persons, are; Accused Arjun Sharma - 199 notes of Rs.1000/- each.

 Accused Parma Shah - 302 notes of Rs.500/- each. Accused Satender - 40 notes of Rs.500/- each. Accused Nagina Prasad - 35 notes of Rs.1,000/- each.

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.24/32 
 Accused Bipin Pandey - 25 notes of Rs.1,000/- each. 39. The recovery of above mentioned notes, by any stretch of

imagination, do not appear to be a huge quantity. Accused persons have

disputed the recovery and their arrest as shown in the record. They have

examined six witnesses in their defence. DW-1 is Prem Chand Singh who

has stated that on 13.04.2013, he was on duty at Supriya Cinema and in

his presence neither any quarrel took place nor any person was arrested.

Nothing much beyond this has been stated by DW1. DW-1 has not named

any of the accused persons. Thus, the testimony of this witness is

confusing in itself. 40. DW-2 is Trilok Chand who has deposed regarding arrest of

accused Satender. It is stated that accused Satender has been arrested

from Railway Station, Faridabad. It is further stated by DW-2 that accused

Satender was arrested in his presence but nothing was recovered from

him. During his cross-examination, DW-2, however, has stated that he

has not made any complaint to any Senior Police official or any other

Authority. 41. DW-3 is accused Bipin Pandey himself who has stated that on

13.04.2013, he had gone to Batia, Bihar and when he reached Chhawni

Chowk, he saw that 4-5 persons in civil uniform had apprehended

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.25/32 
 accused Nagina Prasad. It is further stated by DW-3 that he was also

falsely implicated in this case and nothing has been recovered from his

possession. During cross-examination, however, DW-3 has been given all

the relevant suggestions which had been denied by him. 42. DW-4 is Dr. Diwakar Prasad who again, though has been

examined as defence witness but has not been able to throw much light

in the present facts and circumstances. It has been merely stated by DW-

4 that accused Arjun Sharma got fractured his hand and leg in February

2013 and he was treated by him. The present matter pertains to March

2013, however. Thus, testimony of DW-4 is not of much help to the

accused persons. 43. DW-5 Anang Pal Singh and DW-6 Ct. Praveen Yadav are the

relevant witnesses examined by the accused persons in their defence,

however, they have deposed that fake currency was recovered from

accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah. These witnesses have not been

cross-examined by the prosecution. The prosecution, however, has been

alleging since the beginning that recovery of fake currency, as mentioned

above, has been made from accused Arjun Sharma and accused Parma

Shah. 44. Now, coming to the essential ingredients of Section 489C IPC,

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.26/32 
 the first requirement is that there is a currency note or a bank note and it

is forged or counterfeit. In this regard, the report regarding the currency

being counterfeit is filed on record which is Ex.P-1. This report has not

been disputed by all the accused persons during trial. As per the report,

the currency which is stated to have been recovered from the accused

persons is 'fake currency'. Now, coming to the other aspect i.e. recovery

of fake currency from accused persons, in this regard, all the prosecution

witnesses i.e. PW-1, PW-5, PW-6, PW-7 and PW-8 have stated that fake

currency notes have been recovered from the possession of accused

persons. 45. It is a matter of record that during prosecution evidence, two

witnesses i.e. Ct. Anang Pal and Ct. Salimuddin were cited as witnesses

as per list of witness, however, their role being similar to other witnesses

who have been examined as per record, therefore, they were dropped

and were not examined as prosecution witnesses. These two witnesses,

however, have been summoned by the accused persons as their defence

witness as DW-5 and DW-6. These witnesses have also supported the

story of prosecution that recovery of fake currency has been made from

accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah. This is nothing but corroboration

of the facts alleged by both, prosecution and defence witnesses.

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.27/32 46. With regard to recovery of fake currency from other accused

Bipin Pandey, Nagina Prasad and Satender, though, there is disclosure

statement of all the accused persons, however, as per Section 27 of

Indian Evidence Act, any recovery which is in pertinent to any statement

made to the Police, is admissible only to the extent of such recovery.

Similar are the facts and circumstances of the present case. The

disclosure statement of any of the accused persons is not admissible in

evidence, however, if it is leading to recovery, which has in fact, taken

place as stated by all the prosecution witnesses, then it is relevant and

admissible to that extent. From the testimonies of prosecution witnesses

as well as defence witnesses i.e. PW-5 and PW-6, I am of the considered

opinion that prosecution has been successful in establishing the fact that

recovery of fake currency has been made at the instance or from the

accused persons. 47. Now, coming to the last and most important ingredient of Section 489C IPC i.e. accused is having knowledge or have reason to

believe that currency was fake and he had intended to use such currency

note as genuine. Ld. Addl. PP for the State has submitted that if someone

consciously receives such counterfeit currency from another person, and

carries with it to pass it on to some other person to circulate it or selling

it, then his conduct is such that he is having requisite knowledge of

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.28/32 
 currency being fake or counterfeit. It is further stated by prosecution that

such conduct of accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah that they were

found with fake currencies in itself implies that they were having

knowledge that they were dealing with or having the possession of fake

currency. Ld. Addl. PP for the State has relied upon the following

judgments in support of his contention: It has been held in these cases that mens rea which are the

essential ingredients to constitute the offence, under Section 489B and 489C IPC have to be proved by the prosecution. However, if the conduct

of accused is suspicious, and he is not able to furnish any reasonable

explanation, then he is presumed to have such knowledge. 48. It has been argued from the side of accused persons that no

such recovery, as alleged by prosecution, has been made from them. The

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.29/32 
 witnesses examined by accused persons in their defence, i.e. DW-5 and

DW-6, however, tells a different story. These witness, as already stated

above, have supported the story of prosecution. What else, in my

considered opinion, could be a better corroboration than this. Thus, to my

mind, there is nothing available on the record from the side of accused

persons which could counter this fact that accused persons were not

having any such knowledge that the currency was counterfeit or fake.

More so, after going through the statement of accused persons, so

recorded under Section 313 Cr.PC, not much explanation has been

furnished in their defence from their side and all the answers given by

them, are mechanical. 49. Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act provides for provision that if

any fact is within the specialized knowledge of a person, then burden is

upon such person to prove the same and if, it is not established, then

presumption shall be contrary. In this regard reference can also be laid

upon a landmark titled as " Surender Prasad Vs. State " 2014 [1] JCC

569, in which it has been held that; 50. In the light of above discussion, it is reflected and I

am of the considered opinion that, all the accused persons

were having sufficient knowledge that the currency notes

which are stated to have been recovered from their

possession, are admissible as recovery as under Section 27 Indian Evidence Act and they were having sufficient knowledge

that the currency notes were fake. Hence, charge under Section 489C IPC stands established against all the accused

SC no.:­28222/16 State Vs.  Arjun Sharma & Ors Page no.31/32 
 persons. Conclusion: 51. Prosecution has been able to establish its case

against all the accused persons under Section 489C IPC

beyond reasonable doubt and all the accused persons namely

Arjun Sharma, Parma Shah, Satender Singh, Nagina Prasad and

Bipin Pandey are therefore, convicted under Section 489C IPC.

Accused Arjun Sharma and Parma Shah, however, are

acquitted under Section 489B IPC. 52. Order on sentence shall be pronounced separately. Digitally signed by