This appeal is filed by the assessee for assessment year 2015-16

against the order of the Learned Commissioner of Income Tax

(Appeals)-Moradabad dated December 2017. 2. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal:- 3. Brief facts of the case are that, the AO made addition of

Rs.1,25,36,661/- under Section 68 of the Act. During the assessment

proceedings, the AO noticed that the assessee had claimed exemption

of Rs. 1,20,98,091/- being LTCG u/s 10(38). The assessee had

purchased shares of M/s SMP Securities and M/s SS Corporate

Security at a very low price and sold it off during the year under

consideration at abnormally high price thus having Long Term capital

gains of Rs. 1,20,98,091/-. The AO stated that he had received an

investigation report of Pr. DIT, Inv. Kolkata, which had carried out a

detailed investigation into the LTCG racket carried out by the

syndicate of operator throughout the country. He carried out his own

independent inquiries and arrived at the conclusion that the assessee

had routed his own unaccounted money through this channel and

hence the same was added in the hands of the assessee u/s 68 of the

Act. Yuvraj Ahuja Vs. DCIT 4. The said order of the above has been confirmed by the CIT(A)

vide order dated 14.08.2019 in following manner : 1,20,98,091/- on the alleged sale of shares is basically
 accommodation entry from the entry operator. The appellant is involved
 in the scam of accommodation entry. The shares in which he has
 invested belong to paper company. Its financial position is extremely
 poor and do not seem to be carrying out a regular business. The
 exponential rise in its share price is nothing else but a manipulation by
 the syndicate of operators involved in the scam. The entire amount of
 the so called receipt on sale of shares has been treated correctly as
 unexplained credit u/s 68 of the Act, as it has all the ingredients of
 attracting the rigours of the said section. Section 68 of the Act provides
 that where any sum is found credited in the books of the appellant
 maintained for any previous year and the appellant offers no
 explanation about the nature and source thereof or the explanation
 offered by her is not in the opinion of the AO satisfactory, the sum so
 credited may be charged to income tax as income of the appellant of
 that year. There is no economic or financial justification for the sale
 price of these shares. The fantastic sale price realization is not at all
 humanly probable, as there is no economic or financial basis that a
 share of little known company would jump so high. In these
 circumstances, I do not find any infirmity in the order of the AO. In
 view of the facts discussed in earlier paras, I am of the considered
 view that the AO was justified to disallow the claim of long term capital
 gain of Rs. 1,20,98,091/- and to treat the total sale consideration of
 Rs. 1,25,36,661/- as income from undisclosed sources. 5. None appeared for the assessee, the notices sent to the

registered address of the assessee returned with endorsement

"addressee not found". It is found that, even before the CIT(A),

assessee has not appeared and not cooperated with the appellate

proceedings before the CIT(A). By looking into the facts and Page 4 of 6 Yuvraj Ahuja Vs. DCIT circumstances of the case and considering the conduct of the

assessee we deem it fit to decide the above appeal after hearing the

Ld. DR and verifying the material on record. 6. We have head the Learned DR, perused the material available on

record and give our thoughtful consideration. On going through the

order of AO as well as CIT(A) it is found that the Lower Authorities

found that the assessee's claim of LTCG of Rs.1,20,98,091/- on

alleged sale of shares is basically 'accommodation entry' from the

entry operator. The Ld. CIT(A) found that the shares in which

assessee is invested belong to paper company, the financial position

is extremely poor and do not seem to be carrying out any regular

business, the exponential rise in its share price is nothing else but a

manipulation by the syndicate of operators involved in the scam. The

entire amount of the so called receipt on sale of shares has been

treated correctly is unexplained credit u/s 68 of the Act, as it has all

the ingredients of attracting the rigours of the said section. Section 68

of the Act provides that where any sum is found credited in the books

of the appellant maintained for any previous year and the appellant

offers no explanation about the nature and source thereof or the

explanation offered by her is not in the opinion of the AO satisfactory, Page 5 of 6 Yuvraj Ahuja Vs. DCIT the sum so credited may be charged to income tax as income of the

appellant of that year. There is no economic or financial justification

for the sale price of these shares. The fantastic sale price realization is

not at all humanly probable, as there is no economic or financial

basis that a share of little known company would jump so high. The

above findings of the CIT(A) is based on the material available on

record and the Assessee has not appeared and produced any material

before the CIT(A). After filing the present Appeal even after issuing

several notices by registry of this Tribunal to the registered address of

the Assessee, the assessee remained absent and in the absence of any

material evidence contrary to the findings of the Lower Authorities, we

do not find any fault with the findings and the conclusion of the

CIT(A) and we do not find any error or infirmity in the findings of the

Lower Authorities. Thus, we find no merit in the Grounds No. 1 to 5

of the assessee, accordingly, the Ground No. 1 to 5 of the Assessee

are dismissed. Yuvraj Ahuja Vs. DCIT 7. In the result, appeal of assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 29.03.2023

 Sd/- Sd/-