1 This is an appeal impugning an order and judgment dated 3-11-

2003 passed by the IInd Additional Sessions Judge, Nashik, acquitting

respondent (accused) for the offence punishable under Sections 498A

(Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and

306 (Abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code . 2 As none appeared for respondent, this court appointed Ms

Spenta Havewala as Amicus Curaie. Before I proceed with the case, I must

express my appreciation for the assistance rendered and endeavour put

forth by Ms Havewala, learned Amicus Curiae, for it has been of immense

value in rendering the judgment. Khandu Vetal (PW-1), had a daughter by name Sunita. Sunita was the third

daughter of PW-1. Sunita was married to accused on 19-4-1999 and after

marriage Sunita started living with accused at Eklahare Village. The mother

and sister of accused were also living with them. The father of accused was

in service with India Security Press and during the course of his

employment, had died. PW-1 hoping that accused will get job in India

Security Press on compassionate ground, got Sunita married to accused,

though at the time of marriage accused was unemployed. Sunita had

studied upto 12th Standard. For 12 months after marriage, the couple lived

in Eklahare. According to PW-1, the relationship between Sunita and her

mother-in-law and sister-in-law was not very cordial. But PW-2, who is the

sister of Sunita, says that there were no serious disputes when Sunita was

living at Eklahare and married life for some extent, was good.

4 After about a year of marriage, Sunita and accused shifted to

Nashik Road. Sunita got job at the house of Nashik Station Master, where

she was doing household work including washing of utensils. As part of the

job, she was allowed to occupy the servants quarters behind the station

master's house. Sunita was not being paid any salary. As accused was

unemployed, he used to get drunk and beat Sunita. It seems, accused was

telling Sunita to bring Rs.20,000/- from her father, i.e., PW-1, which could

be used for doing some business. What business ? Nothing is mentioned. fruits. As PW-1, due to his own poverty was unable to pay the amount of

Rs.20,000/-, accused used to beat Sunita. It seems PW-1 also advised

accused to treat Sunita well, but that had no effect on accused. In the

meanwhile, Sunita conceived and a daughter was born to her.

6 On or about 18-9-2001, Sunita committed suicide by jumping in

front of a running train. It is the case of PW-1, 15 days prior thereto, he had

visited Sunita, when Sunita once again complained to him about the ill-

treatment at the hands of accused. On 18-9-2001, the Deputy Manager of

Nashik Road Railway Station lodged complaint at Nashik Road Railway

Police Station. Based on the complaint, an inquest panchnama was done,

post mortem was done and the cause of death given is shock due to poly-

trauma. 7 On 20-9-2001, PW-1 lodged the complaint for the offences

punishable under Section 498A and Section 306 of IPC. After investigation

and recording of statements, charge sheet was filed before the JMFC,

Railway, Manmad, who committed the case to the Sessions Court for trial as

the offence under Section 306 is exclusively triable by the Sessions Court.

Thereafter, charges were framed and accused pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried. Stand of defence is total denial.

8 To drive home the guilt of accused, prosecution led evidence of

6 witnesses namely; Kisan Khandu Vetal (complainant), father of Sunita, as

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 ::: 4/17 apeal-243-04(208).doc

PW-1; Shaila Ashok Gholap, sister of Sunita, as PW-2; Ashok Karbhari

Gholap, husband of PW-2, as PW-3; Bharati Tulshiram Gadakh, neighbour of

accused and Sunita, as PW-4; Bhagwat Ramdhan Sonawane, Head

Constable, as PW-5; Vasant Gurulingappa Patil, PSI, as PW-6.

9 The Apex Court in Ghurey Lal Vs. State of U.P.1 has culled out

the factors to be kept in mind by the Appellate Court while hearing an

appeal against acquittal. Paragraph Nos.72 and 73 of the said judgment read as under: The accused possessed this presumption when he was before the
 trial court. The trial court's acquittal bolsters the presumption that
 he is innocent. 3. Due or proper weight and consideration must be given to the
 trial court's decision. This is especially true when a witness'
 credibility is at issue. It is not enough for the High Court to take a
 different view of the evidence. There must also be substantial and
 compelling reasons for holding that trial court was wrong. 73. In light of the above, the High Court and other appellate courts
 should follow the well settled principles crystallized by number of
 judgments if it is going to overrule or otherwise disturb the trial
 court's acquittal: 2. The Appellate Court must always give proper weight and
 consideration to the findings of the trial court. 3. If two reasonable views can be reached - one that leads to
 acquittal, the other to conviction - the High Courts/appellate courts
 must rule in favour of the accused. 10 The Apex Court in many other judgments including Murlidhar

& Ors. Vs. State of Karnataka2 has held that unless, the conclusions reached

by the trial court are found to be palpably wrong or based on erroneous

view of the law or if such conclusions are allowed to stand, they are likely to

result in grave injustice, Appellate Court should not interfere with the

conclusions of the Trial Court. Apex Court also held that merely because the

appellate court on re-appreciation and re-evaluation of the evidence is

2 (2014) 5 SCC 730

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 ::: 6/17 apeal-243-04(208).doc

inclined to take a different view, interference with the judgment of acquittal

is not justified if the view taken by the trial court is a possible view. We must also keep in mind that there is a presumption of

innocence in favour of respondent and such presumption is strengthened by

the order of acquittal passed in his favour by the Trial Court.

11 The Apex Court in Ramesh Babulal Doshi Vs. State of Gujarat 3

has held that if the Appellate Court holds, for reasons to be recorded that

the order of acquittal cannot at all be sustained because Appellate Court

finds the order to be palpably wrong, manifestly erroneous or demonstrably

unsustainable, Appellate Court can reappraise the evidence to arrive at its

own conclusions. In other words, if Appellate Court finds that there was

nothing wrong or manifestly erroneous with the order of the Trial Court, the

Appeal Court need not even re-appraise the evidence and arrive at its own

conclusions. 12 I have perused the impugned judgment, considered the

evidence and also heard Ms. Malhotra, learned APP and Ms Havewala. I do

not find anything palpably wrong, manifestly erroneous or demonstrably

unsustainable in the impugned judgment. 13 PW-1 says in his evidence that accused was not doing any work

and under the influence of liquor, used to beat Sunita and was insisting her

to bring cash of Rs.20,000/- from parents for doing some business. PW-1

3 1996 SCC (cri) 972

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 ::: 7/17 apeal-243-04(208).doc

says Sunita informed him about these things when she 4 or 5 times visited

his house. PW-1 says even when he visited the house of Sunita 4 or 5 times,

Sunita mentioned to him about the ill-treatment. PW-1 says Sunita went to

his house just before delivery and 15 days after she delivered the child he

went to reach her at Nashik, where accused was living. PW-1 says at that

time, he requested accused not to consume liquor and also not to make

demand for cash or not to beat or ill-treat Sunita, but there was no change

in the behaviour of accused. These are all general statements and nothing

specific. PW-1 in his cross-examination states that accused did not have

a job because of which his wife and other family members were disturbed.

The mother of Sunita is not a witness. I would have expected a daughter to

tell her mother all the problems, but strangely, the mother is not one of the

witness, who was examined. 24 witnesses have been listed in the charge

sheet, but only 6 witnesses, of which, two were police men, have been

examined by prosecution. In his cross-examination, PW-1 admits that in his

statement before the police, he has not mentioned that Sunita had gone to

his house for delivery and after her delivery she resided with him for 15

days. PW-1 also admits that in his statement to the police, he has not

mentioned that during that stay Sunita had informed him about the ill-

treatment and demand for cash by accused. examination-in-chief that Sunita informed her that accused was insisting her

to bring cash and she had not disclosed the amount. PW-2 says on the date

of incident, i.e., 18-9-2001, her husband (PW-3) informed her that accused

had gone to his (PW-3) place of work and inquired about Sunita and also

informed him that he had slapped Sunita because she refused to prepare

meals for some friends he had invited for dinner. I wonder, why PW-2

would go and meet PW-3 at his place of work, which is almost 40Km from

Nashik Road. Strangely, PW-2 says that accused even went to the school of

her daughter and when she telephoned PW-3, he informed her that accused

had gone to the school of her daughter. PW-2 admits that she had not

informed the police that she had phoned to her husband after which, he

reached the home. I have to note that the daughter of PW-2 and PW-3 has

not been examined. 15 PW-3 say that Sunita never told about the ill-treatment and that

he heard about it only from his wife. In his presence Sunita never had

spoken to his wife, i.e., PW-2. PW-3 say that till recording of his statement

by police, he did not inform anybody about the meeting of accused with

him at Ashok Oil Mill, which contradicts that when PW-2 telephoned PW-3,

he informer her about the meeting with accused at the mill. Therefore,

evidence of PW-3 is not reliable. 16 PW.-4, who is the neighbour of Sunita and Accused at Nashik

Road, was called by prosecution to prove their case against accused. But

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 ::: 9/17 apeal-243-04(208).doc

this witness was declared hostile because she states that Sunita never

informed her about the ill-treatment by accused under the influence of

liquor or about the demand of cash. PW-4 has also denied when the APP

cross-examined her that Sunita ever informed her that accused used to

consume liquor and abuse and beat her. PW-4 also denied that Sunita ever

informed her that accused used to never pay any money for the household

expenses. PW-4 also denied that prior to the date of the incident, there was

a quarrel between Sunita and accused. In fact, PW-4 has denied the portion

which is marked "A" that is recorded in her statement.

17 Defence led evidence of Kusum V. Savle (DW-1), wife of the

Station Master, in whose quarters Sunita and accused were residing. In the

examination-in-chief, DW-1 says that in her presence no dispute took place

between Sunita and accused, nobody used to visit their house and Sunita

never complained about accused. 18 Therefore, apart from general statements made by PW-1, there

is no evidence to show that accused used to beat Sunita under the influence

of liquor and also beat her for not bringing Rs.20,000/- from her father.

PW-4 and DW-1 state that they never saw Sunita being ill-treated by accused

and Sunita never complained to them of any ill-treatment by accused. We

have to keep in mind that it is easy to accuse somebody of ill-treatment after

some one dies, but it will not be wise to convict somebody based on such

general statements. has been well discussed in catena of judgments. It is settled law that under Section 498A of IPC, every cruelty is not an offence. The cruelty must be of

such a degree as contemplated by the Section, i.e., it must be willful conduct

of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to

cause grave injury or danger to life, limb and health of the woman.

20 The Division Bench of this court in Kamlesh Ghanshyam Lohia

and Ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra , through the commissioner of police &

Ors.,4 in paragraphs 12 to 15, has observed as under: 13. Whether the aforesaid allegations, even if taken at par, would
 warrant the prosecution of the petitioners is the moot question. It is
 indisputable that the cruelty under section 498-A of IPC has a specific
 legal connotation. Ordinary quarrels, differences of views and wear
 and tear of life, which every home witnesses, do not fall within the
 mischief of cruelty which section 498-A of IPC punishes. Nor, every
 ill-treatment or harassment falls within its dragnet. To fall within the
 tentacles of section 498-A , the married woman must have been
 subjected to cruelty which would drive the woman to commit suicide
 or to cause grave injury or danger to her life, limb or health, or with
 a view to coerce her or any person related to her to meet an unlawful
 demand of property. Mere demand of money or property,
 unaccompanied by any harassment, would also not fall within the
 mischief of section 498-A . There has to be a nexus between the
 demand and the consequent harassment. 14. On the anvil of the aforesaid legal position, if the allegations
 enumerated above, are weighed, it becomes evident that the first
 allegation of insulting the first informant after she shifted to Juhu in
 the year 2010, is of general nature. The allegation is stale as well. By
 no stretch of imagination, it can be stated that the alleged conduct
 had the propensity to drive the first informant to commit suicide or
 cause harm to herself. 15. The second allegation of all the family members of Krishna
 demanding money, clothes and ornaments on each of the festive
 occasions is also of general nature and bereft of any specific instance
 and authorship. The said allegations, at the highest, would indicate
 that on festive occasions certain articles were demanded. In the
 absence of the allegation that the first informant was subjected to
 harassment either in order to meet the unlawful demands of property
 or on her failure to meet such demands, the second allegation looses
 the incriminating tendency. " 22 As regards Section 306, it reads as under : What is abetment and who is an abettor can be found in Sections 107 and 108 of IPC which read as under: Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 ::: 13/17 apeal-243-04(208).doc

 "108. Abettor.--A person abets an offence, who abets either the
 commission of an offence, or the commission of an act which would
 be an offence, if committed by a person capable by law of committing
 an offence with the same intention or knowledge as that of the
 abettor. " 25 In paragraph 19 of Shivaji Shitole and Ors. Vs. State of

Maharashtra & Anr.7 this court has summed up the legal position on

Section 306. Paragraph 19 reads as under: 7 2012(3) Bom.C.R. (CRI) 532

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 ::: 15/17 apeal-243-04(208).doc

26 The Apex Court in the judgment of Ude Singh & Ors. Vs. State

of Haryana8 , has pithily explained what amounts to the abetment.

Paragraphs 37 to 40 of the said judgment read as under: These are essential to complete the abetment as a crime. The word
 "instigate" literally means to provoke, incite, urge on or bring about by
 persuasion to do anything. 38. In cases of alleged abetment of suicide, there must be a proof of
 direct or indirect act/s of incitement to the commission of suicide. It
 could hardly be disputed that the question of cause of a suicide,
 particularly in the context of an offence of abetment of suicide,
 remains a vexed one, involving multifaceted and complex attributes of
 human behaviour and responses/reactions. In the case of accusation
 for abetment of suicide, the Court would be looking for cogent and
 convincing proof of the act/s of incitement to the commission of
 suicide. In the case of suicide, mere allegation of harassment of the
 deceased by another person would not suffice unless there be such
 action on the part of the accused which compels the person to commit
 suicide; and such an offending action ought to be proximate to the
 time of occurrence. Whether a person has abetted in the commission
 of suicide by another or not, could only be gathered from the facts
 and circumstances of each case. 39. For the purpose of finding out if a person has abetted commission
 of suicide by another, the consideration would be if the accused is
 guilty of the act of instigation of the act of suicide. As explained and
 reiterated by this Court in the decisions above-referred, instigation
 means to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do an
 act. If the persons who committed suicide had been hypersensitive
 and the action of accused is otherwise not ordinarily expected to
 induce a similarly circumstanced person to commit suicide, it may not
 be safe to hold the accused guilty of abetment of suicide. But, on the
 other hand, if the accused by his acts and by his continuous course of
 conduct creates a situation which leads the deceased perceiving no
 other option except to commit suicide, the case may fall within the
 four-corners of Section 306 IPC. If the accused plays an active role in
 tarnishing the self-esteem and self-respect of the victim, which
 eventually draws the victim to commit suicide, the accused may be
 held guilty of abetment of suicide. The question of mens rea on the
 part of the accused in such cases would be examined with reference to
 the actual acts and deeds of the accused and if the acts and deeds are
8 2019 SCC Online Sc924

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 ::: 16/17 apeal-243-04(208).doc

 only of such nature where the accused intended nothing more than
 harassment or snap show of anger, a particular case may fall short of
 the offence of abetment of suicide. However, if the accused kept on
 irritating or annoying the deceased by words or deeds until the
 deceased reacted or was provoked, a particular case may be that of
 abetment of suicide. Such being the matter of delicate analysis of
 human behaviour, each case is required to be examined on its own
 facts, while taking note of all the surrounding factors having bearing
 on the actions and psyche of the accused and the deceased. 40. We may also observe that human mind could be affected and
 could react in myriad ways; and impact of one's action on the mind of
 another carries several imponderables. Similar actions are dealt with
 differently by different persons; and so far a particular person's
 reaction to any other human's action is concerned, there is no specific
 theorem or yardstick to estimate or assess the same. Even in regard to
 the factors related with the question of harassment of a girl, many
 factors are to be considered like age, personality, upbringing, rural or
 urban set ups, education etc. Even the response to the ill-action of
 eve-teasing and its impact on a young girl could also vary for a variety
 of factors, including those of background, self- confidence and
 upbringing. Hence, each case is required to be dealt with on its own
 facts and circumstances. 27 Paragraph 8 of the unreported judgment of the Apex Court in Rajesh Vs. State of Haryana9 reads as under: 28 The courts have held that the evidence must suggest or indicate

that the accused knew or had a reason to believe that deceased would

commit suicide. committed suicide because of ill-treatment or cruelty by of the accused.

There is also no evidence whatsoever that the accused by their acts intended

Sunita to commit suicide. 30 There is an acquittal and therefore, there is double presumption

in favour of the accused. Firstly, the presumption of innocence available to

the accused under the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that

every person shall be presumed to be innocent unless they are proved guilty

by a competent court of law. Secondly, accused having secured his acquittal,

the presumption of his innocence is further reinforced, reaffirmed and

strengthened by the trial court. For acquitting accused, the Sessions Court

rightly observed that the prosecution had failed to prove its case.

31 In the circumstances, in my view, the opinion of the Sessions

Court cannot be held to be illegal or improper or contrary to law. The order

of acquittal, in my view, need not be interfered with.

32 Appeal dismissed. (K.R. SHRIRAM, J.)

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 24/02/2020 ::: Downloaded on - 23/03/2020 11:58:08 :::