MRS. PADMA PANDEY, MEMBER 

 

  

 

 PER
JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.), PRESIDENT 

 

 This order shall dispose of the
aforesaid two First Appeal Nos.255 of 2014, titled as Birla Sun Life
Insurance Co. Ltd. and others Vs. Mohinder Kumar Chopra and others and 289
of 2014 titled as Mohinder Kumar Chopra Vs. Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
and others, arising out of the common order dated 23.05.2014, rendered by the District
Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-II, U.T., Chandigarh (hereinafter to be
called as the District Forum only), vide which, it disposed of the complaint,
filed by the complainant (now respondent No.1 in First Appeal No.255 of 2014
), and directed Opposite Parties No.1 to 3 (now appellants in First Appeal
No.255 of 2014), as under:- 2.     
 The
facts, in brief, are that the complainant obtained Insurance Policy, bearing
No. 001777911, from Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, through their agents Opposite
Parties No.4 and 5, on 04.07.2008, for the sum assured to the tune of
Rs.3,75,000/-. Coverage benefit period of the said Policy was 30 years, for
which premium @ Rs.25,000/- was required to be paid annually, for a period of 5
years. The complainant paid all the annual premiums, to the tune of Rs.25,000/-,
regularly. On completion of 05 years, the complainant approached Opposite
Parties No.1 to 5, and sought withdrawal of the fund value of the Policy,
aforesaid. It was stated that, on the other hand, Opposite Parties No.4 and 5, fraudulently
withdrew, the amount of Rs.84,250/-, from the fund value of the Policy
aforesaid, and issued two new Policies, in the name of the complainant, by
forging his signatures, on the proposal forms, and other documents, without his
consent and knowledge. It was further stated that, as such, fraud was played
upon the complainant, by Opposite Parties No.4 and 5, the agents of Opposite
Parties No.1 to 3. 3.     
 It was further stated that when the complainant
raked up the issue, Opposite Parties No.4 and 5, assured him, that they would
get the new Policies cancelled, and the amount thereof, would be credited to the
fund value of his old Policy, within a period of 15 days. It was further stated
that, however, instead of that, Opposite Parties No.4 and 5, sent two new Policies
to the complainant, on 02.03.2013, through DTDC Courier and Cargo Limited,
which they obtained surreptitiously. It was further stated that, on receipt of
the said Policies, the complainant contacted the complaint Cell of Opposite
Parties No.1 to 3, on 04.03.2013, for cancellation of the said new Policies.
After constant follow up, the complainant was informed that, no action could be
taken by Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, as he failed to make request, within the
free-look period of 15 days, from the date of issuance of the Policies, in
dispute. 4.     
 It
was further stated that the complainant took up the matter, with the Grievance
Officer and Customer Service Officer of Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, but to no avail. It was further stated that the aforesaid acts
of Opposite Parties No.1 to 5, amounted to fraud and forgery. When the
grievance of the complainant, was not redressed, left with no alternative, a
complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter to
be called as the Act only), was filed, directing Opposite Parties No.1 to 5, to
refund the amount of Rs.84,250/-, paid on account of premium, for the two
Policies, in dispute, which amount was fraudulently withdrawn by Opposite
Parties No.4 and 5, alongwith interest @24% P.A., from the date of withdrawal,
till realization; pay compensation, to the tune of Rs.2 lacs, for mental agony
and physical harassment; and cost of litigation, to the tune of Rs.50,000/-. 5.     
 Opposite
Parties No.1 to 3, in their joint written version, stated that, in December,
2012, the complainant showed his interest, to transfer some of the funds, from
his Policy No. 001777911, for the issuance of new Policies, in the name of
Master Manik Chopra. Resultantly, on the request of the complainant, a Policy
Payout Request Form, consent letter for cash withdrawal and two new proposal
forms, were filled in and signed by the complainant, on 27.12.2012. It was
further stated that, in case, the complainant was not satisfied with the terms
and conditions of the Policies, he was at liberty to get the same cancelled,
within the free look period of 15 days, from the date of receipt of the same,
but he failed to do so. It was further
stated that, the parties being bound by the terms and conditions of the
Policies, could not wriggle out of the same. It was further stated that the
Policies, in question, had lapsed, on account of non-payment of premium, for
the subsequent years. It was further stated that the complainant had taken all
the benefits of Insurance Cover of the said Policies, for which he had paid the
premium. It was further stated that neither there was any deficiency, in
rendering service, on the part of Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, nor they indulged
into unfair trade practice. The remaining averments, were denied, being wrong. 6.     
 In
the rejoinder, filed by the complainant, he reasserted all the averments,
contained in the complaint, and repudiated those, contained in the written
version of Opposite Parties No.1 to 3. 7.     
 Despite
deemed service, none put in appearance, on behalf of Opposite Parties No.4 and
5, as a result whereof, they were proceeded against exparte, by the District
Forum on 21.01.2014. 8.     
 Initially,
Opposite Party No.6, put in appearance, through Sh. Vishal Chander, Security
Executive, but, later on, none put in appearance, on its behalf, as a result
whereof, it was also proceeded against exparte, by the District Forum, on
06.02.2014. 9.     
 The
complainant and Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, led evidence, in support of their case. 10.  
 After
hearing the Counsel for the complainant, Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, and, on going
through the evidence, and record of the case, the District Forum, disposed of the complaint, in the manner, referred to, in
the opening para of the instant order. 11.  
 Feeling aggrieved,  First Appeal No.255 of 2014, titled as
Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and others Vs. Mohinder Kumar Chopra and
others was filed by the appellants/Opposite
Parties No.1 to 3, for setting aside the impugned order, being illegal, whereas,
on the other hand, First Appeal No.289 of 2014 titled as Mohinder Kumar
Chopra Vs. Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and others was filed by the
appellant/complainant, for modification of the order impugned, by allowing the
complaint, in terms of the prayer, made in the same (complaint). 12.  
 Service
of proforma respondents No.2 to 4, in First Appeal No.255 of 2014, titled as
Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and others Vs. Mohinder Kumar Chopra and
others, who were Opposite Parties No.4 to 6, in the District Forum, and the
complaint against them was dismissed by it, was dispensed with, by this
Commission, on 08.07.2014. 13.  
 Service
of Proforma respondents No.4 to 6, in First Appeal No.289 of 2014 titled as
Mohinder Kumar Chopra Vs. Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and others who
were Opposite Parties No.4 to 6, in the District Forum, and the complaint
against them was dismissed by it, was dispensed with, by this Commission, on 27.08.2014. 14.  
 We have heard the Counsel for the parties and, have gone through the evidence,
and record of the case, carefully. 15.      
 The Counsel for the appellants, in First
Appeal No.255 of 2014, submitted that since serious allegations of fraud and
forgery, of his signatures were levelled by the complainant, in his complaint,
the same (complaint) could not be adjudicated upon by the District Forum, the
proceedings before which are summary, in nature. He further submitted that such
complicated questions of fact and law, could only be decided by the Civil
Court. He further submitted that the District Forum, thus, fell into a grave
error, in allowing the complaint. He further submitted that the order impugned
is, thus, liable to be set aside. 16.      
 On the other
hand, the Counsel for the respondent/complainant submitted that, no doubt, the
serious allegations of fraud and forgery of his signatures, were levelled by
the complainant, yet the District Forum could decide the complaint. He further
submitted that the order deserved to be modified, by way of grant of all the
reliefs, prayed for in the complaint. 17.      
 It may be stated here,
that the perusal of paragraph numbers 6 and 8 of the complaint, clearly goes to
reveal that the complainant, in clear-cut terms stated therein that the agents
of Opposite Parties No.1 to 3 i.e. Opposite Parties No.4 and 5, played fraud upon
him (complainant), by forging his signatures, on the proposal forms, and issued
two new Policies, which he never intended to purchase. Not only this, in
paragraph No.8 of the complaint, the complainant, in clear-cut terms, also
stated that the agents of Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, even forged his
signatures, on the Courier receipt, vide which the new Policies, had been
sent to the complainant. These
allegations of forgery and fraud were also attempted to be corroborated, by the
complainant, by way of filing his affidavit, in the shape of evidence.  In other words,
serious allegations of forgery and fraud,
were levelled, by the complainant, against Opposite Parties No.1 to 5. On the
other hand, Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, in their written version, by way of
filing affidavit, have denied the same. Since, serious allegations of forgery
and fraud, were levelled by the complainant, and Opposite Parties No.1 to 3 have denied the
same, it is to be determined, as to whether, such disputed and complex questions
of fact and law, could be adjudicated upon, by the Consumer Fora, proceedings
before which, are summary in nature. In Oriental
Insurance Company Ltd. Vs Munimahesh Patel 2006 (2) CPC 668 (SC), Reliance
Industries Ltd. Vs United India Insurance Co. Ltd.I (1998) CPJ 13, a case
decided by a four Member Bench of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal
Commission, New Delhi and   M/s
Singhal Swaroop Ispat Ltd. Vs United Commercial Bank III (1992) CPJ 50, a
case decided by a three member Bench of  the
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi, it was held  that when there are allegations of
forgery, fraud and cheating, adjudication whereof, requires elaborate evidence,
the  same cannot be decided
by a Consumer Fora, proceedings before which, are summary in nature. In Oriental Insurance Company
Ltd.s case (supra), there was a dispute, about the disclosure of
information, incorporated  in
the proposal form. Two copies of the proposal form were produced. In one copy
of the proposal form, the insured stated that she was working as a teacher,
whereas, in the other copy of the proposal form, it was stated that she was a
housewife.  The insured,
thus, on the basis of such information, obtained the Policy. The insured died.
When the claim was filed by her legal representatives, the same was repudiated,
on the ground of a false disclosure of information, by the insured, in the
proposal form. The District Forum, accepted the complaint, which was filed by
the legal representatives of the deceased insured.  The State Commission set aside the
order of the District Forum, on the ground that there was dispute of disclosure
made, in the proposal form, and the information given and, as such, the facts
being disputed and of complicated nature, the complainant should take
appropriate proceedings for establishing his claim, and seeking the reliefs in
the Court of competent Jurisdiction. Feeling aggrieved, Revision Petition, was
filed before the National Consumer Disputes  Redressal Commission, which accepted
the same, holding that the information disclosed by the insured, had no nexus
with her death and, as such, restored the order of the District Forum. Feeling
aggrieved, the  Oriental
Insurance Company Ltd., filed Civil Appeal bearing No.4091 of 2006, in the Hon`ble Supreme Court. The
Honble Supreme Court held that the proceedings, before the Commission were
essentially summary in nature. It was further held that the factual position
was required to be established by documents.  It was further held that, in view of
the complex factual position, the matter could not be examined, by the Consumer
Fora, and the appropriate Forum, was the Civil Court. In   Reliance Industries Ltd.s
case (supra), it was held that when the questions of fraud and cheating are
involved, in regard to the claim of the complainant, which require thorough
scrutiny, including the examination of various documents, and supporting oral
evidence, the Consumer Fora cannot adjudicate upon the matter. It was further
held that the questions of forgery/fraud, cheating and conspiracy, could be
satisfactorily resolved, by the Civil Court. Similar principle of law, was laid
down, in   M/s Singhal
Swaroop Ispat Ltd.s case (supra) decided
by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi. The
principle of law, laid down, in the aforesaid cases, is fully applicable to the
facts of the instant case. 18.      
 Since, the
disputed and complex questions of fact and law, are involved in the complaint,
as to whether, Opposite Parties No.4 and 5, the agents of Opposite Parties No.1
to 3, had forged the signatures of the complainant, on the proposal forms and
issued the new Policies, which he never allegedly proposed/opted for;  whether, Opposite
Parties No.4 and 5, the agents of Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, also forged the
signatures of the complainant, on the courier receipt, referred to above; and whether
fraud was played upon the complainant, by Opposite Parties No.1 to 5; in our
considered opinion, for proving such allegations of forgery and  fraud,
thorough analysis of voluminous documents, and elaborate examination of the
witnesses, and their cross-examination, is required. Such disputed and complex
questions/facts, therefore, could not be adjudicated upon, by the Consumer
Fora, proceedings before which are summary, in nature. It was not that mere
allegations of   forgery and fraud,
referred to above, were levelled by the complainant, against Opposite Parties
No.1 to 5, but he also attempted to prove the same, by way of filing the affidavit,
in the shape of evidence. Opposite Parties No.1 to 3, on the other hand,
vehemently denied such allegations levelled by the complainant,  and also attempted to disprove
the same, by way of affidavit, in the shape of evidence. Thus, only the Civil
Court could decide such disputed and complex questions of fact and law. 19.      
 Since, it has been held above, that the allegations of   forgery and fraud, referred to above,
were levelled by the complainant, against Opposite Parties No.1 to 5, and they
(Opposite Parties No.1 to 3), on the other hand, vehemently denied such
allegations levelled by him, and thus, only the Civil Court could decide such
disputed and complex questions of fact and law, the District Forum, in our
considered opinion, erred in entertaining the complaint and deciding the same
(complaint), vide the order impugned, and, as such, the same (order impugned),
is liable to be set aside. 20.      
 For
the reasons recorded above, First Appeal No.255 of 2014, titled as
Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and others Vs. Mohinder Kumar Chopra and
others, is accepted, with no order as to costs. The order of the District Forum is set aside. 21.      
 In
view of the acceptance of First Appeal No.255 of 2014, First Appeal No.289 of
2014 titled as Mohinder Kumar Chopra Vs. Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and
others, is dismissed, with no order as to costs, as having been
rendered infructuous. 22.   However, respondent no.1/complainant shall be at liberty, to
resort to any other remedy, which may be available to him, for redressal of his
grievance, under the provisions of law. 23.   Certified copy of this order, be placed in
the file of First Appeal No.289 of 2014 titled as Mohinder Kumar
Chopra Vs. Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and others. 24.   Certified copies of this order, be sent to
the parties, free of charge. 25.   The file be consigned to Record Room,
after completion 

 

Pronounced. September 11, 2014 

 

Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)] 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

Sd/- (DEV RAJ) 

 

MEMBER 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

Sd/- (PADMA PANDEY) 

 

 MEMBER 

 

  

 

  

 

Rg