1. Brief facts of the present case are, that on 21.12.2020 the petitioner filed
this petition Under Section 14 (1) (e) of the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958
(hereinafter referred to as " DRC Act ") praying to this Court to pass an order for
eviction in favour of the petitioner and against the Respondent/Tenant
(hereinafter referred to as 'respondent') in respect of the tenanted premises i.e.
Premises consisting of Portion/Room measuring approx. 12'.6 X 16'.6',
forming part of property no. B-239, Karampura, Delhi. AVERMENTS BY PETITIONERS IN THE PETITION 2. That the Petitioner is a peace loving Senior citizen of India aged about 83
 years, and is residing with his family at his above mentioned address. It is
 submitted, that the Petitioner is a retired person having retired from Delhi
 Cloth & General Mills Co Ltd., Delhi. 3. That it is further submitted, that the Delhi Administration had got
 constructed Janta Flats in Karampura, Delhi which were allotted to
 employees/labours working in the private sector, factories/mills of Delhi
 Cloth Mill/Swatantra Bharat Mill/Campa Cola etc., and accordingly, the
 Petitioner was also allotted one Flat bearing no. B-239, Karampura, Delhi
 110015 measuring 33.11 sq. Mtrs. consisting of Two rooms, one kitchen,
 one W.C., front courtyard and an outback, vide Allotment Letter dated 1st Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA SHARMA
 Date: 2025.07.31 16:06:07 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 2 / 50 October 1963, issued by the office of the Labour Commissioner, Rajpur
 Road, Delhi. It is further submitted, that in the year 1977, the Delhi
 Administration had decided to grant the ownership of the said flats to their
 respective allottees upon payment of nominal amount. 4. Accordingly, the Petitioner vide his application dated 2 nd May, 1979 had
 also applied for ownership of the said flat, and had paid the requisite
 amount as was prescribed by the Labour Department, Delhi Administration
 and subsequently, a Lease and Conveyance Deed dated 21st April, 1982 was
 executed in favour of the Petitioner by the Delhi Administration, through
 the President of India, which was duly registered upon the execution of the
 aforesaid Lease and Conveyance Deed dated 21st April, 1982, and pursuant
 to that Petitioner became the owner of the said flat. 5. It is further contended, that in the year 1979-80, one of the close friend of
 the Petitioner namely, Shri Pyare Lal, who was also working in Swatantra
 Bharat Mills, one of the subsidiary of the Delhi Cloth and General Mills
 Co., was terminated from his employment and his services and since the
 said Shri Pyare Lal had no other source of income to maintain the family of
 three sons and one daughter, he desired to run a Labour Union Office from
 the tenanted premises and requested the Petitioner to allow him to use the
 space available in the outback of his said flat, for the said purpose. Being a
 close friend of the Petitioner, the latter out of trust and taking into view the
 family condition of the said Shri Pyare Lal, had built a kutcha room
 (wooden room) therein, and allowed his trade union, i.e.. the Respondent to
 use the said room for running a Union office, purely on compassionate
 grounds. Digitally signed
 RICHA by RICHA
 SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:06:22 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 3 / 50 6. It is further stated, that after some time, the said Shri Pyare Lal, in the
 capacity of the President of the Respondent, requested the Petitioner to
 construct a pucca room in place of the wooden room in the said outback of
 his flat, and agreed to pay the monthly rent of Rs. 40/- (Rupees Forty only)
 as rent for the said pucca room, to which the Petitioner agreed. Accordingly,
 the Petitioner with his own funds constructed a pucca room in the outback
 attached to his said flat , hereinafter referred to as "the tenanted premises",
 which he thereafter let out to the Respondent at a monthly rent of Rs. 40/-
 (Rupees Forty Only). It is further submitted, that the said Shri Pyare Lal at
 the time of taking the said room/tenanted premises on rent, assured the
 Petitioner, that as and when the Petitioner or his family would need/require
 the said portion/tenanted premises, he would vacate the same and shift his
 office to some other place. 7. That it is further averred, that the said Shri Pyare Lal passed away sometime
 in the year 1990, and after the death of Shri Pyare Lal, his son, Shri Jagjit
 Singh, who was working with his father, took over the presidency/reigns of
 the Respondent herein, and requested the Petitioner to let him continue to
 use the tenanted premises and to continue the said Union office therefrom
 on the same monthly rental which was being paid by the Respondent, to
 which the Petitioner agreed. The Respondent further assured the Petitioner,
 that he would vacate the said tenanted premises as and when requested by
 the Petitioner. 8. It is further averred, that the family of the Petitioner consist's of:- n. Shri Dinesh Kumar Sharma, son of the Petitioner: 9. It is submitted by the petitioner, that over the period of time since the
family of the Petitioner has been increasing and his grandchildren were also
growing in age, including a grand-daughter, the Petitioner got constructed one
more room adjoining the tenanted premises. 10. Since the said rooms still did not suffice for the family of the Petitioner, he
also got constructed one room, a small W.C. and a toilet over and above the
terrace of tenanted premises, i.e., Room No. 6. It is submitted, that while Room
no. 3 is being used as a bedroom by the Petitioner and his wife, Room No. 4 is
being used as a drawing-cum-dining room by the family of the Petitioner, Room
no. 1 is being used as Baithak by the Petitioner for meeting his neighbours and
acquaintances, who generally keep coming to inquire about the health of the
Petitioner and well being. Since the said ground floor of the flat of the Petitioner
has only one small kitchen, the Petitioner has been compelled to convert some
part of Room No. 1 into a small kitchen/pantry, by putting a stone slab. It is
further submitted, that the Room no. 2 was initially being used by the son of the
Petitioner, Shri Umesh Kumar Sharma and his wife, as their bedroom and his
growing-up children also used to sleep with them. However, since the said
grandchildren of the Petitioner were growing up, and the Petitioner required
more living space for his family members, the Petitioner got constructed a room
over and above the tenanted premises, i.e., Room no. 6, and after construction of
the said room, the elder son of the Petitioner, Shri Umesh Kumar Sharma, shifted Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:07:33 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 6 / 50 to the said Room No. 6, which he has been using as his bedroom, while the said
Room No. 2 is now being used by the children of Shri Umesh Kumar Sharma,
i.e., Mr. Lakshay Sharma, who is aged about 24 years, who besides being
employed in a private job with AECOM, is simultaneously also
pursuing/completing the course of Master of Business Administration through
correspondence, and Ms. Shrishti Sharma, who is pursuing Bachelors of Arts
course from Delhi University. 11. It is also submitted, that besides the fact, that the said Mr. Lakhaya Sharma in
working and hence requires the said room at night to study for his course, the
Petitioner also wishes to see his said grandson married and settled soon during
his lifetime, and thus would requires an individual room for him and his wife.
The fact of the matter in that the granddaughter of the Petitioner, Ms. Shristhi
Sharma, is now also a grown up girl and requires an independent room, but she
has to share the room either with her parents or with her brother. 12. That it is further submitted, that the Room no. 5 is being used as bedroom
by the other son of the Petitioner, Shri Brjiesh Kumar Sharma and his wife. It is
further submitted, that due to severe paucity of space, the said son of the
Petitioner, Shri Brijesh Kumar Sharma, had to purchase roof of the Flat No. B-
240, Karampura, Delhi (i.e., the flat above the flat of the Petitioner) in the name
of his wife, Smt. Vibha Sharma and got constructed one room set therein, i.e., the
Room no. 7, which room is being used by the two sons of Shri Brijesh Kumar
Sharma, the elder son of Shri Brijesh Kumar Sharma, Mr. Pranshu Sharma, is
pursuing Bachelor of Sciences (B.Sc.) course in Food Nutrition and Dietician
from Manav Rachna University, Faridabad, while his younger son, Mr. Aayush
Sharma, is pursuing Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) course in Animation and VEX
from Sharda University, Noida, and thus, both of them also require an individual
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:07:41 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 7 / 50 room for their respective studies. 13. It is further submitted, that the Petitioner is a retired person, while his
sons, Shri Umesh Kumar Sharma, is working in a private publication company in
Narela, and Shri Brijesh Kumar Sharma as an Under Secretary in the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, Govt. Of India, and even collectively don't have the
means or the money to buy a bigger house/property, as they have to bear all the
household expenses as well as the expenses for the study of their children. Due
to lack of space and to avoid constant bickering in the house, the two sons of the
Petitioner, namely, Shri Suresh Kumar Sharma and Shri Dinesh Kumar Sharma,
have to live separately from their parents, brothers and family. 14. It is further averred, that since the said two sons of the Petitioner are already
living separately, it is not possible for either of his other two sons namely, Shri
Umesh Kumar Sharma or Shri Brijesh Kumar Sharma, to move out or live
separately from the Petitioner and his wife, in their old age as both the sons are
also required by the Petitioner to look after him and his needs, as the Petitioner is
suffering from Chronic Lungs and Pulmonary Disease (COPD)/Bronchitis and
other age related ailments, while his wife, Krishan Lata Sharma in suffering from
Kidney related issues, fluctuating Blood Pressure, Hypothyroidism and
Hypertension, and other age related ailments. 15. It is further submitted, that to live a comfortable life and also to provide a
reasonably suitable, comfortable and dignified life to his family, the Petitioner
needs room each for his two sons and their wife, and one room each for his four
grandchildren staying with him, besides a drawing-cum-dining room to meet and
entertain guests, one pooja room, one guest room for when his brother or Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:08:17 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 8 / 50 daughter and their respective families comes and stays with the Petitioner. The
portions/rooms in occupation of the Petitioner are not at all sufficient to meet the
said needs of his family to live in a comfortable manner, and thus the Petitioner
is in need of the tenanted premises to convert the same into a suitable, sufficient,
proper and separate rooms for his family members. 16. The Petitioner and his family members, due to paucity of rooms, are facing
great hardship on daily basis, which have at times also led to quarrels amongst
the family members. Further under such messed up situation, the Petitioner at
times have to refuse his brother and/or his daughter/sons and/or their family
members from staying overnight at his house, which also leads to the Petitioner
facing huge embarrassment in front of his family members. As such the
Petitioner urgently requires tenanted premises measuring 12.6" x 16.6" for
converting same into a room after taking out a portion of the wall from Room no.
2 and connecting the same with a door, which would at least satisfy the needs of
Petitioner to certain extent. 17. It is further averred, that the Petitioner is also the owner of one property
bearing no. D-319, Ground Floor, Khasra no. 187, Gali No. 3. Indra Park,
Najafgarh, Delhi 110043, which he has rented out to one Shri Baijnath at a
monthly rent of Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand only) per month. It is
pertinent to mention here, that the petitioner has no other income for his day to
day expenses except the rent from above said property. Moreover, the said
property is located far from the house of the Petitioner, besides the same also
being far from the offices, colleges and universities where the sons of the
Petitioner are working and the grandchildren are studying, respectively. SHARMA
 RICHA Date: 18. It is further averred, that since the Petitioner had been the only bread winner
for his family comprising of his wife, his four sons and a daughter, he had been
requesting the respondent to increase the rent however, the respondent had been
increasing the monthly rent on a nominal basis, and that too not in accordance
with the provisions of the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 , and the present monthly
rent in respect of the said tenanted premises is Rs.200/-, much below the market
rent which the tenanted premises may fetch, if rented out today. 19. It is further submitted, that the tenanted premises is being used by the
Respondent since 1978 for running it's Trade Union office, which is also
affiliated to INTUC (Indian National Congress party), and being the President of
the said union, the Respondent and the union leader, have developed good
relations with various leaders of the Congress party, and he has been using his
said connections/relations to influence Police authorities, and has become the
gunda/bad element of the said area. The said Shri Jagjit Singh has also created
relations with the muscle-man of the area. 20. It is averred, that as and when the Petitioner has requested the
Respondent/Shri Jagjit Singh to vacate the tenanted premises, the respondent had
been threatening the Petitioner with dire consequences of harming him and his
family members. Shri Jagjit Singh has also been calling various members of the
Respondent union and other anti-social elements from Karampura, Nangloi,
Uttam Nagar and other nearby areas and creating ruckus in the tenanted
premises. 21. It is further submitted, that the Respondent in collusion and connivance with
local municipal authorities started paying the House Tax in respect of the Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:08:59 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 10 / 50 tenanted premises, allegedly claiming the same to be it's property in order to
prove the ownership of the tenanted premises. The said Shri Jagjit Singh has also
got an Election/Voter-I card and passport made in his name from the address of
the tenanted premises. When the Petitioner came to know about the same, and
inquired about the same from him, the said Shri Jagjit Singh, through his gunda
friends, especially one Mr. Ashok Kumar Munna, threatened the Petitioner, and
forcefully and under coercion got signed an application for taking a separate
electricity connection in the name of the Respondent. Although since the said
premises was an outback area, the Respondent has also unauthorizedly obtained
a water connection from the Delhi Jal Board line, without any proper
sanction/connection from the Delhi Jal Board. However, due to the political clout of the Respondent, no action had
been taken even by the Delhi Jal Board, upon the complaint raised by the
Petitioner in this regard. It is further submitted, that the Petitioner has also made
complaint with the Election Officer/Election Commission to strike off the name
of Shri Jagjit Singh from the list of the Voter's against the address of the
Petitioner, but no action has been taken against this complaint due to his political
and other connections. 22. It is also submitted, that undoubtedly the said Shri Jagjit Singh is a man of
means and is having a property at RZ-30, South Extension, Part-II, Uttam Nagar,
New Delhi-110059, entirely in his control and occupation. It is averred, that the
Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union (Regd.) is a registered trade union however
the Respondent has never conducted any elections thereof and the said Shri Jagjit
Singh has elected himself as the President, his younger son as the Treasurer, who
is working in a private firm, and the said Ashok Kumar Munna as one of the
office bearer thereof, respondent with a view to harass and pressurize the
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:09:18 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 11 / 50 Petitioner, had got installed a CCTV outside the tenanted premises facing the
portion in occupation of the Petitioner and when the Petitioner complained about
the same with the Police Authorities, the local Police Official favored the
Respondent by stating that these camera are necessary for security purposes. However, when the matter was brought to the notice of the office of DCP
(West), the local police authorities had to stop the Respondent from installing
cameras facing towards the rooms in occupation of the Petitioner. However, the
Respondent has still installed cameras inside the union office. It is further
submitted, that the Respondent had also been making false complaints against
the younger son of the Petitioner, Shri Brijesh Kumar Sharma, in his office,
merely to coerce the Petitioner so that he does not ask the Respondent to vacate
the tenanted premises. It is further submitted, that considering the various illegal
and unauthorized tactics of the Respondent, the Petitioner has also lodged
various complaints against the Respondent with the Police Authorities. LEAVE TO DEFEND APPLICATION 23. Perusal of the record reveals, that leave to defend was filed by the respondent
on 31.03.2021, and leave to defend was granted by the Ld. Predecessor of this
court vide Order dated 06.12.2021 and the respondent was given opportunity to
file his Written Statement. AVERMENTS BY RESPONDENT IN WRITTEN STATEMENT 24. Written Statement was filed by the respondent on 07.01.2022, in which he
stated, that the petitioner has became adamant and is trying to disturb and harass
the respondent by causing inconvenience to the respondent. Therefore, a
complaint was lodge by the respondent against the petitioner. It is further
submitted by the respondent, that he is using the premises since 1976 and the
petitioner has got nothing to do with the premise in occupation of the respondent. RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:09:37 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 12 / 50 The only concern is that the premises is just next to the allotted premises of the
petitioner office of a trade union and the visitors are the poor labourers and the
respondent is dealing in the service matters of the said poor labourers in the
competent court of law and that too like a social service for the poor labourers.
No objection was ever raised by the petitioner since the year 1976 till 2017,
when the CCTV camera was installed by the respondent. 25. It is contented, that the respondent is the owner in respect of the premises in
question and thereafter also have repaired, done additions, alterations and even
changes in construction by himself, by means of construction of toilet and
kitchen in the office and had applied for electricity connection, water connection,
telephone connection etc, without obtaining any consent from the petitioner or
from anyone else. The land in question had nothing to do with the property of
the petitioner i.e. B-239, Ground floor, Karampura, New Delhi. The said
property measuring 33.11 sq. Meters i.e. 39.59 Sq. Yards allotted by the DDA to
the petitioner is in occupation of land measuring 124 Sq. Yards, in front of the
allotted property besides that the property of the respondent is entirely different
property, which the respondent came in possession in the year 1976 and the only
connection of the property of the respondent is the neighboring property.
Therefore, the respondent has no relation of landlord and tenant with the
petitioner. 26. As far as the dates of events are concerned, no specific date of creation of
tenancy, construction of office is mentioned by the petitioner, neither any
agreement is there in writing nor any oral agreement was ever entered into. No
rent receipt was issued by the landlord at the time of inception of tenancy, no
record of payment of rent by the respondent to the petitioner is there and also the
rent receipts are only from the year 2017, when the cause of dispute arose Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:09:48 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 13 / 50 between the petitioner and the respondent, i.e. when the respondent had managed
to installed CCTV camera in his office, which was objected to by the petitioner
in the year 2017 and thereafter the dispute arose. Similarly, the respondent lodged a complaint against the petitioner who
was trying to grab a public park in the vicinity of his house but due to the
interruption of respondent, the petitioner failed to grab the park, therefore in
order to teach a lesson to the respondent, the petitioner filed the present petition. 27. The petitioner has filed rent receipts since the year 2017 but it is very strange
that the receipts were issued by the respondent itself, at the printed pads of the
respondent. It seems, that the petitioner had taken away a pad of the booklet of
receipts of the respondent from his office and used the same for treating its pages
as rent receipts. The respondent never paid a single penny as rent to the petitioner
or to any one else. 28. It is averred, that the petitioner has shown a list of 17 persons as the list of
family members of the petitioner but in fact all these persons are not residing in
the premises of the petitioner, only 10 persons are residing in the premises of the
petitioner, the remaining persons are residing at different places, having there
owner properties at various places in Delhi itself. REPLICATION FILED ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER TO
THE WRITTEN STATEMENT FILED BY THE RESPONDENT/TENANT 29. Replication was also filed by the petitioner, denying all the allegations
levelled by the respondent and reiterating and reasserting the same facts as stated
in the petition. Digitally signed
 by RICHA
 SHARMA
 RICHA Date: 30. The petitioner no.1 Sh. Rameshwar Dayal Sharma examined himself as PW1
to prove his case. PW1 tendered in evidence his duly sworn in affidavit, thereby
placing reliance upon the following documents :- Digitally 32. Ex.PW1/30 -Settlement dated 06.10.2018 (OSR). The PW-1 was cross-examined at length by the Ld. Counsel for the
respondent. Apart from PW-1, PW-2 namely Pushpender, ASO, Labour
Department, 5-Civil Lines, Shamnath Margh, Delhi-54, PW-3 namely Ct.
Vineet, PIS No. 28181787 and PW- 4 namely SI Anoop Singh were also
examined by petitioner as his witnesses to prove his case. It is pertinent to note,
that inadvertently PW Ratnesh Kumar has also been examined as PW-4 however,
PW-4 already stand examined as SI Anoop Singh, therefore testimony of Sh.
Ratnesh Kumar be read as that of PW-5. Thereafter, PE was closed vide order dated 04.07.2023. EVIDENCE LED BY RESPONDENT 31. The respondent no.1 Sh. Jagjit Singh examined himself as RW1 to prove his
case. RW1, tendered evidence by way of his duly sworn in affidavit and relied
upon following several documents :- 32. RW1 was cross examined at length by the Ld. Counsel for the petitioner.
Thereafter, the respondent's evidence was closed and the matter was listed for
the final arguments. 33. I have heard detailed arguments advanced by Learned counsels for the parties
and have further gone through the record carefully. My findings are as under :- 34. Before proceeding further, it is expedient to reproduce the contents of Section
14 (1) (e) of DRC Act and the same is as under: 35. Proviso (e) to Section 14(1) is a special provision which has been enacted by
the legislature for the class of landlords who require the premises genuinely and
their requirement is bonafide and they do not have any suitable accommodation.
The essential ingredients for attracting the proviso (e) of the Section 14(1) are : 36. These twin thresholds are to be satisfied conjunctively in order to attract the
 provisions of Section 14(1)(e) and the absence of even one of the said Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:11:02 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 19 / 50 ingredients clearly makes the said provision inapplicable. 37. The following are the ingredients of Section 14 (1)(e) of D.R.C. Act as culled
 out from the discussion above : 38. It has been held in the case of Bharat Bhushan Vs. Arti Techchandani 2008
 (153) DLT 247 that the concept of ownership in a landlord tenant litigation as
 governed by the DRC Act has to be distinguished from the one in title suit. In
 the case of M. R. Sawhney Vs. Dories Randhawa AIR 2008 Delhi 110, it was
 held that once a tenant always a tenant, unless his status changes by
 contract or by operation of law which is not so in the present petition. 39. It is settled law, that respondent is estopped under Section 116 of the
 Evidence Act from disputing the ownership of the petitioner over the tenanted
 premises. The eviction petition cannot be treated at par with a title suit. The
 petitioners have to prove only that he is something more than a tenant. In T.C.
 Rekhi v. Usha Gujral ILR 1969 Delhi 9 and in Shanti Sharma v. Ved
 Prabha 1987 AIR SC 2028 discussing on the point what is meant by the word
 RICHA Digitally signed by RICHA
 SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31 16:11:18
 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 20 / 50 "Owner", it is held that the general rule is to the effect that the petitioners
 have to have a better title than the respondent and is not required to show that
 he has the best of all possible titles and that the purpose behind requirement
 of ownership in Section 14(1)(e) of the DRC Act, 1958 as amended is to
 avoid misuse of the provision. It need not be proved in the absolute sense of
 the term of ownership as laid down in Parvati Devi v. Mahinder Singh 1996
 (1) AD (Del) 819, B. Banerjee v. Romesh Mahajan 1996 ( 63) DLT 930, Milk
 Food Ltd. v. Kiran Khanna 1993 (51) DLT 141, Sushil Kanta Chakravarty
 v. Rajeshwari Kumar AIR 2000 Del 413, Ujjagar Singh v. Iqbal Kaur 2002
 (97) DLT 646 that the petitioner to an eviction petition under Section 14(1)(e) of the DRC Act, 1958 as amended need not show that he was the absolute
 owner in the strict sense and has to show a better and superior title only to the
 tenant. The same is reiterated in Sheela v. Prahlad Rai Prem Prakash by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court report in AIR 2002 SC 1264. 40. In case titled as Jiwan Lal Vs. Gurdial Kaur & Ors. 1995 RLR 162, a Bench
 of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi while dealing with the concept of ownership
 in a pending eviction petition under Section 14(1)(e) of the DRC Act had
 noted as follows: 41. Further, in the case titled as Smt. Shanti Sharma & Ors. Vs Smt Ved
 Prabha & Ors. , 1987 AIR 2028, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed : It is also well settled that the petitioner should be something more than the
 tenant and the petitioner need not prove his ownership in absolute terms. It is
 sufficient for the petitioner to prove or to show that he is something more than
 a tenant. 42. In Ramesh Chand vs. Uganti Devi , 157 (2009) DLT 450, this Court has
 specifically held that:- 43. It is a settled law, that under Delhi Rent Control Act , the tenant has no right
 to challenge the ownership of the landlord , neither is the landlord required to
 prove his / her absolute ownership. Moreover, law of estoppal also bars the
 respondent herein from challenging the land lordship of the petitioners. It has
 been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Smt. Shanti Sharma & Ors. Vs.
 Smt. Ved Prabha & Ors. (AIR) 1987 Supreme Court 2028 that for the
 purpose of 14 (1) (e) of DRC Act , the ownership is not to be understood as
 absolute ownership but only as a title better than the tenant. So, what has to
 be seen is whether on the basis of the facts averred by the tenant it can be said
 that the landlord does not have title to the property or a title better than him. The above view was reiterated by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Rajinder
 Kumar Sharma & Ors. Vs. Leelawati & Ors. (155) (2008) DLT 383. 44. Now, in light of the law reproduced as above, coming to the facts of the case
 in hand. 45. In order to prove his case, petitioner examined himself as PW-1 and in his
evidence he relied upon the documents being the conveyance deed and allotment
letter exhibited as Ex.PW1/3 and Ex.PW1/2 respectively. The bare perusal of
these documents reveal, that the said lease and conveyance deed was executed on
21.04.1982, between the Government of India i.e. Delhi Administration being
one of the party and Sh. Rameshwar Dayal i.e. petitioner being the second party,
bearing the address as B-239, Karampura, Delhi. Further, vide the allotment letter dated 01.10.1963, the petitioner i.e.
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:11:41 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 23 / 50 Rameshwar Dayal was allotted House No.239 of Block-B at Industrial Housing
Colony, (Karam Pura), Najafgarh Road, New Delhi on a monthly license fee of
Rs.16/- under the signature of the then Labour Commissioner of Delhi. It is
material to note, that even RW-1 in his cross-examination has admitted to the
ownership of the petitioner on the premises in question and the relevant excerpts
of his cross-examination of dated 13.05.2024 to this effect are as under: - 46. Thus, from the above extracts of cross-examination of RW-1, it categorically
stands admitted, that the petitioner is the owner of Quarter No. B-239
Karampura. However, what is material here is that the respondent though has not
challenged or questioned the ownership of the petitioner with respect to the
premises in question but has challenged the ownership of the petitioner qua the
tenanted premises alleged to be forming a part of the premises owned by the
petitioner, on the premise that the same does not form the part of Quarter No.B-
239 of the petitioner. In this regard, the petitioner has placed due reliance upon
the show cause notice exhibited as Ex.PW1/8, which was issued by the then
Assistant Housing Commissioner, Karampura, Delhi. The perusal of this document i.e. Ex.PW1/8 reveals, that the petitioner had
been called upon by the said department to show cause as to why his allotment of
the said quarter be not canceled for using the premises for the purpose other than
using the same for residential purpose that is for running the office for Trade Digitally signed by
 RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:11:50 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 24 / 50 Union. It is vital to note, that the fact that the Trade Union is being run from the
tenanted premises is not questioned or challenged by the respondent but their
defence is, that the said Union office is being run since 1982 but the same is not
run from the premises falling under the ownership of the petitioner but that the
Union office is being run from the property which is adjacent to the property of
the petitioner and the same is not forming the part of the property of the
petitioner. However, the said defence of the respondent does not inspire the
confidence of the Court as had this been the scenario, there was no reason for the
Housing Commissioner to issue a show cause notice with respect to the premises
not forming the part of the premises allotted to the petitioner, thereby asking for
an explanation from the petitioner. If the averment of the respondent had been
plausible, there would not have been any breach of clause 4 of the lease and
conveyance deed i.e. Ex.PW1/3 and further there would have been no reason for
the Housing Commissioner to issue any show cause notice i.e. Ex.PW1/8 upon
the petitioner. 47. Even otherwise it is the admitted case of the respondent, that they have been
in possession of the premises in question since 1964 and admittedly it is
categorically stated by the respondents in their written arguments, that they are
not the owners of the premises in question and are in occupation of the
government land. It is further material to note, that had the tenanted premises not
been forming the part of the said quarter, then the competent authority would
have issued notices of encroachment and not of misuse of the premises for the
purpose its use is not designated. It is further not out of place to mention, that the
respondent has also categorically admitted in his cross-examination dated
13.05.2024, that the portion of the premises in his occupation is bearing the same
address i.e. B-239, as that of property of the petitioner and therefore, it was
incumbent upon the respondent to prove and adduced evidence to the effect, that Digitally signed RICHA by RICHA
 SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:12:01 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 25 / 50 if the property/premises in his occupation is not forming a part of the petitioner's
premises then how and under what circumstances both the premises i.e. that of
the petitioner and the alleged tenanted premises are having same address i.e. B-
239, Karampura, Delhi. The relevant excerpts of his cross-examination to this
effect are reproduced as under : - 48. At the cost of repetition, it is being stated, that the respondent has not placed
on record any document to explain as to what is his locus qua the property in
question as admittedly he has neither placed on record any ownership documents
nor has he placed on record any other document by virtue which it can be
established, that if he is not the tenant then he is the owner to the premises in
question. It is further pertinent to note, that though by way of written arguments
the respondent is averring himself to be the absolute owner of the property in
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:12:09 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 26 / 50 question but in his cross-examination he himself has admitted, that property in
his occupation is a government land. Thus, the respondent is blowing hot and
cold in the same breath. The relevant excerpts of his cross-examination of to this
effect are reproduced as under : - 49. It is further material to note, that on one hand the respondent is saying, that
the land under his occupation is government land and on the other hand it is
saying, that respondent union was got registered with respect to the said land in
the year 1982 but this explanation is also devoid of merits as registration of
government land in the name of the respondent union per se is not permissible
within the tenants of law unless conveyance deed or any other legit document
stands duly executed between respondent and government/Delhi Administration
and so is not the case in hand. 50. Another contradistinction between the averments of the respondent that needs
to be highlighted is with regard to the deposition made by the RW-1 in his cross
examination dated 07.08.2024, whereby he stated, that his father simply saw a
vacant plot of land and started using the same for the union office after raising
Jhuggi therein in the year 1976, but it is pertinent to mention, that there is no
document on record to even prima facie establish, that the union is functioning
from the said premises since 1976 as the RW-1 has himself averred in his cross
examination dated 03.05.2024, that the union was got registered in the year 1982.
It is further a candid admission by RW-1 in his cross examination, that no
permission was ever taken by his father to raise any construction from the MCD
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:12:16 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 27 / 50 or any other authority and that since 1976 till date, he is enjoying the government
land without even a single show-cause notice or a letter being issued to him by
the MCD and the Delhi Administration, thereby asking him to explain his locus
qua the property in question. It is material to note, that RW-1 has further
admitted in his cross-examination, that he can not produced any document to
show, that the said alleged construction was raised by his father. The relevants
extracts of his cross examination to this effect are as under : 51. It further stands unexplained, as to why till date neither RW-1 nor his father
ever applied to the authority for allotment of any new plot number or address for
the premises in occupation of the RW-1, if the same is not forming a part of the
premises bearing number B-239, Karampura, Delhi i.e. the premises under the
ownership of the petitioner. The relevants extracts of his cross examination to
this effect is as under : 52. It is further pellucid to note, that though RW-1 deposed in his cross
examination, that he had applied for the assessment of the said plot for the
purpose of house tax but admittedly no house tax receipt is filed on record in
support of his averments. It is further deposed by RW1 in his cross examination
dated 19.11.2024, that he had applied for assessment of house tax in respect of
plot in question before the house tax authority and the same was duly done about
10-12 years back but admittedly neither the respondent had filed any document
showing his ownership of the said plot nor any UPIC number that had been
allotted to the premises in question has been filed on record. Infact, he further
deposed, that he cannot even say if any such number had ever been allotted to
him or any other such document was ever provided to him on the basis of which
they have deposited the house tax. RW-1 has merely made bald averments
stating, that they had deposited the house tax till 2023, but not even a single
receipt has been filed on record to substantiate these averments made by him in
his cross examination. The relevant extracts of his cross examination to this
effect are reproduced as under : 53. It is further material to note, that RW-1 had further admitted in his cross
examination, that he had neither filed any suit for declaration claiming himself to
be the owner of the said portion of the land on the basis of adverse possession
against the government or any other person nor in any other manner he has
claimed their ownership for the premises in question. The relevant extracts of his
cross examination to this effect are as under : 54. Therefore, in the light of the above detailed appreciation of evidences, it
safely stands deduced, that in the absence of any ownership document, any
separate document, any separate address with respect to the tenanted premises in
question being different from the premises of the petitioner of which he is the
owner by way of implication it stands deduced, that the tenanted premises
squarely falls within the quarter bearing the address i.e. B-239, Karampura, Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:12:58 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 30 / 50 Delhi. As far as the aspect of payment of rent to the petitioner is concerned, it is
submitted by the president of the respondent in his affidavit, that the respondent
has never paid rent to anyone, but at this stage Court deems it fit to appreciate
the document exhibited as Ex. PW1/7, which is the Auditor's Report ending
31.12.2009, and the Auditor's Report ending 31.12.2010, filed by the petitioner
in order to prove on record the payment of rent. Perusal of the said documents
show, that the respondent has been paying the rent of Rs. 1000/- on the basis of
the information that was provided to his office staff or by the respondent staff. It
is apropos to note, that the factum of the Auditor's Report i.e. Ex. PW1/7 being
duly signed by RW-1 also stands admitted by him and he further went on to
depose, that he has signed the report after reading and going through the contents
of the same. Thus, in the light of clear cut admission by the RW-1 to the effect, that
they had not paid the rent and especially that they had no other property qua
which they could have paid the rent, the only reference which can be drawn is
that the respondent has been paying rent in respect of the tenanted premises in
question. The relevant extracts of his cross examination to this effect are as
under: 55. Thus, as a corollary to the above discussion, it safely stands deduced, that the
explanation tendered in the above extracts of his deposition by RW-1 with
respect to the inter change of the entries of the conveyance in place of Cash
details is neither plausible nor tenable as the same was signed by the respondent
after admittedly going through the documents and further no objection was ever
raised by the respondent with regard to the said report on account of improper or
wrong entries being made in it. 56. Another interesting aspect that requires appreciation is with regard to the
document Ex.PW1/B i.e. settlement document dated 06.10.2018, whereby RW-1
had agreed to hand over the tenanted premises to the petitioner or his family
members, as and when he would vacate the tenanted premises. 57. RW-1 in his deposition dated 19.11.2024, was shown the document whereby
he duly identified his signature at point A but went on to say, that it was agreed
that as and when the premises would be vacated, the same would be sold to the
petitioner or his family members. However, the same were not the contents of the
said document and once the signature stands duly admitted in the document
PW1/B, there is an embargo of Section 91 and 92 of the Indian Evidence Act,
which requires that no oral evidence can be given with respect to the terms that
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:13:16 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 32 / 50 have been reduced in writing of an agreement or a contract unless the same falls
within the exception to the said section, however, so is not the case. 58. Before proceeding further, it is expedient to reproduce the contents of Section 91 and 92 of the Indian Evidence Act and the same is as under: 59. Thus, on the basis of the above codified law, it is explicit that no oral
evidence can be given of any term of an agreement otherwise than explicitly
permitted by law. Therefore, in the light of the written settlement agreement i.e.
Ex. PW1/B , respondent was explicitly barred by provision of Section 91 of
Indian Evidence Act, 1872 to lead any evidence with respect to the terms
otherwise embodied in documented form unless the same is permitted as per
proviso to Section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 but even to that extent
no evidence has been led by the respondent to enable him to establish his case to
be falling under any of the proviso appended with Section 92 of the Indian
Evidence Act. 60. Section 92 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 provides that, "when the terms of
any such contract, grant or other disposition of property, or any matter required
by law to be reduced to the form of a document, have been proved according to RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 33 / 50 Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:14:01 +0530
 the last section ( Section 91 ) no evidence of any oral agreement or statement
shall be admitted, as between the parties to any such instrument or their
representatives in interest, for the purpose of contradicting, varying, adding to,
or subtracting from, its terms:" 61. Now, once a written document is duly admitted by RW-1 itself, latter cannot
be allowed to rebut or controvert that document by oral evidence and that too
only by leading oral evidence in form of self serving statements. The respondent
never examined any independent witness to prima facie show that the RW-1 had
entered into the settlement deed qua the sale of the property in question to the
petitioner at the time of eviction/vacation of the premises by them. Further, there
is no mention of any such pre requisite condition even on the document itself. 62. At this stage court deems it fit to place reliance on the Judgment of " Roop
Kumar vs. Mohan Thedani (2003) 6 SCC 595, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
commented on section 91 of the Evidence Act by observing that:- 63. Therefore, from the above quoted observations made by Hon'ble Supreme
Court and after going through the provisions of section 91 and 92 of Indian
Evidence Act, respondent can not be allowed to retract or deny or controvert a
written documents by leading oral evidence. Thus, it was imperative upon
respondent to have proved by way of documentary evidences that they intended
to propose a sale and nothing otherwise at the time of vacation/eviction of the
premises by them. 64. Even otherwise when RW-1 has himself admitted in the earlier extracts of his
cross-examination, that he is in occupation of a government land and no
ownership document per se has been placed on record by him even to prima facie
establish that he is the owner of the tenanted premises, the question of selling the
same to the petitioner or his family members per se does not arise as a person
cannot sell something of which he himself is not the owner. 65. RW-1 further admitted in his deposition dated 19.11.2024, that no such sale
of plot was agreed between him and the petitioner. The relevant excerpts of his
cross-examination to this effect are reproduced as under : - Digitally signed
 by RICHA
 RICHA SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 66. It is further admitted by RW-1, that the son of the petitioner had built a room
over and above roof of the tenanted premises and no objection however was
raised by the respondent or any of his office bearers to the same. The basic
reason that can be culled out for raising no objection to the said construction is,
that the respondent was never the owner of the tenanted premises as had he been
the owner, he would have most certainly not permitted the son of the petitioner to
built a room over his premises, without any objection, more specifically when
admittedly since 2017 disputes had arisen between the parties and complaints
and counter complaints were being made by both the parties against each other. It
is further not out of place to mention, that the respondent has not filed any case
challenging the rent receipts filed in the present case as being forged and
fabricated and RW-1 has further admitted to this aspect of not filing of any case
or complaint challenging the rent receipts relied upon by the petitioner. The
relevant excerpts of his cross-examination to this effect are reproduced as
under : - 67. It is further crucial to note, that in para 18 of the affidavit of RW-1, he has
categorically admitted, that the petitioner has given an NOC to the electricity
authority for the installation of electricity connection in the office of respondent
and this per se puts a dent into the contentions of the respondent averring himself
to be the owner as had he been the owner there was no requirement for him to
take sanction/consent of the petitioner prior to installation of an electricity
connection in his own premises. 68. In view of the discussion as above and in light of settled law, this Court has
no hesitation in deducing, that the law with regard to the right of the tenant to
challenge the ownership of the landlord is fairly settled as well as limited. In this
context, what appears to be the meaning of term "owner" vis a vis the tenant is
that the "owner" should be something more than the tenant. 69. Therefore, in view thereof, the landlord - tenant relationship between the
petitioner and the respondents stands duly proved for the purposes of Delhi Rent
Control Act and at the same time is also stands established that no material
document is placed on record by the respondent to prove that the premises in
question is not forming a part of the premises that is within the admitted
ownership of the petitioner. WHETHER THE NEED OF THE PETITIONER IS BONAFIDE &
 WHETHER THE ALTERNATE SUITABLE ACCOMMODATION IS
 AVAILABLE WITH THE PETITIONER ? RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:14:43 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 38 / 50 70. Before delving into the merits of the bonafide need of the landlord, this
 Court deems it fit to discuss the essence of term "bonafide" and the law
 settled in this regard. 1. The word "genuine" means "natural: not spurious: real: pure: 2. The question to be asked for deciding the bonafide by a judge of
 facts, is by placing himself in the place of the landlord, is, whether in the
 given facts proved by the material on record the need to occupy the
 premises can be said to be natural, real, sincere, honest. If the answer
 were in positive the need is bonafide. 3. The Full Bench of Hon'ble Madhya Pradesh High Court
 distinguished between the genuine requirement and the reasonable
 RICHA Digitally signed by RICHA
 SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31 16:14:56
 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 39 / 50 requirement. It was held in case Damodar Sharma and an- other v.
 Nandram Deviram that:- would vary according to the idiosyncrasy of the individual
 and the time and circumstances in which he lives and thinks.
 Reasonable requirement belong to the "knowledge of the
 law" and means reasonable not in the mind of the person
 requiring the accommodation but reasonable according to
 the actual facts. In my opinion, in this part of Section 4 (g) ,
 the landlord is made the sole arbiter of his own requirements
 but he must prove that he, in fact, wants and genuinely
 intends to occupy the premises. His claim would no doubt
 fail if the Court came to the conclusion that the evidence of
 "want" was unreliable and that the landlord did not
 genuinely intend to occupy." 4. But the essential idea basic to all such cases is that the need of the
 landlord should be genuine and honest, conceived in good faith; and that,
 further, the court must also consider it reasonable to gratify that need.
 Landlord's desire for possession, however honest it might otherwise be,
 has in-inevitably a subjective element in it and that desire, to become a
 "requirement" in law must have the objective element of a "need". It must
 also be such that the court considers it reasonable and, therefore, eligible
 to be gratified. In doing so, the court must take all relevant circumstances
 into consideration so that the protection afforded by law to the tenant is
 not rendered merely "illusory or whittled down". The words "reasonable
 RICHA Digitally signed by RICHA
 SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31 16:15:02
 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 40 / 50 requirement" undoubtedly postulate that there must be an element of need
 as opposed to a mere desire or wish. The distinction between desire and
 need should doubtless be kept in mind but not so as to make even the
 genuine need as nothing but a desire. Mere desire of a landlord/owner
 cannot be equated with bonafide need. 5. Justice H. L. Anand opined that the words "required bonafide by the
 landlord" signify honestly felt need of an owner and therefore incorporate
 a concept, which is both objective as well as subjective. The statute makes
 both the motivations of the owner as indeed the reasonableness of the
 desire, justiciable and the law therefore requires not only that the need of
 the owner for the premises should be honestly and genuinely entertained
 but must also be the need of a reasonable person in the position of the
 owner having regard to the totality of the circumstances such as the extent
 of the family of the owner, the standard of living to which the family is
 used, its social status, the pattern of life relevant to that status, the social
 conditions and any peculiar requirement of the family. All these have to
 be considered in the wider context of the socioeconomic conditions
 obtaining in the country. Once the court comes to the conclusion that the
 claim of the landlord is result of honestly entertained need the court
 would not weigh the requirement in a fine scale, even while keeping the
 landlord confined within reasonable limits having regard to all the
 relevant circumstances. 6. It has been further held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
 case titled as Sarla Ahuja Vs. United Indian Insurance Pvt. Ltd. , AIR
 1999 Supreme Court 100, wherein it was held that :- 71. On the basis of the law as above, returning to the facts of the case in hands.
 The principal averment made by the petitioner via present petition is, that the
 petitioner's family consists of a growing family, thereby comprising of the
 petitioner himself, his wife, his four sons, his daughter in laws, his grandsons
 and his grand daughter, and beside them, the petitioner also has one daughter,
 who though is married and has children but she keeps on visiting the
 petitioner on regular basis but, due to the constraint of space in the current
 premises, owned and occupied by the petitioner, petitioner has cut a sorry
 figure and many a times asked his daughter as well as his other family
 members/relatives to not to come to his house for a longer duration or for stay
 as the space crunch in his house creates problem in accommodating the
 daughter and her children and the other guests on their occasional visits. It is
 apposite to note, that the respondent though had averred, that the family
 members of the petitioner's family consists of only 10 members as the
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:15:15 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 42 / 50 remaining family members of the petitioner's family are residing in different
 accommodation of Delhi but the said submission is not tenable as indirectly
 even the respondent has admitted in his averments, that 10 family members of
 the petitioner are residing with him in the property in question and the
 remaining family members though are there but are residing in different
 accommodations. The petitioner has very well elaborated in his petition, that
 the available rooms in the premises within his possession do not suffice for
 the family of the petitioner , thereby detailing the availability of the rooms
 and the respective occupants of the same. 72. The contention of the petitioner with regard to providing of a separate room
 to his growing grand daughter and to his grand son, who apart from being
 employed is also simultaneously completing his masters in business
 administration and therefore, requires a quiet and silent space to pursue his
 education/ studies is legit. The respondent apart from making evasive and
 bald denials to the requirements of the petitioner has not placed on record any
 cogent evidence to even prima facie substantiate, that the requirements of the
 petitioner are far fetched and fancy, away from reality. 73. It is crucial to note, that Court cannot be unmindful of the fact, that the
 petitioner is around 89 year of age and his wife being 88 years of age are in
 the twilight zone of their life and if at this age, the parents desire to live with
 their entire family under the same roof, the same cannot be treated as
 something not falling within the domain of bonafide need of the petitioner.
 Moreso, when the petitioner has categorically stated in his petition, that his
 two sons namely Sh. Suresh Kumar Sharma and Sh. Dinesh Kumar Sharma
 have to live separate from their family members not out of choice but out of
 compulsion as it is not possible to accommodate all of them in the same Digitally signed by
 RICHA RICHA SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:15:20 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 43 / 50 house due to lack of space and further the paucity of space was resulting in
 constant bickering in the house, thereby further straining the relation between
 the family members. Also, the need of the petitioner while being in the winter
 of one's years to live with his children as well as with his grand children is
 most understandable as the same not only provides a sense of fulfillment but
 also a sense of security as in the old age, the senior citizens are bound to
 suffer from various age related ailments and the same requires constant
 medical attention, which can be addressed to in a much better and swift
 manner, if the parents are living with their children and grand children. 74. It is further a settled proposition of law, that the daughters, including married
 daughters and grand sons not only fall within the category of dependents but
 also fall within the ambit of "family members" for the purpose of any petition
 filed under the DRC Act , thereby seeking eviction on the grounds of bonafide
 need entailed under Seciton 14(1) (e) of DRC Act . The court draws strength
 from the judgment of Rishal Singh Vs. Bohar Ram & Ors and Santosh
 Kumar Mehra Since Deceased through Lrs Vs. Om Prakash . In the judgment titled as Rishal Singh Vs. Bohar Ram & Ors., RC. Rev.
No. 495 of 2012, it was held as under :- Further, in the judgment titled as Santosh Kumar Mehra Since Deceased
 through Lrs Vs. Om Prakash, RC. Rev. No. 94/2015 and CM No. 3597/2015
 decided on 30.06.2015, it was held as under :- Reliance is also placed on Puran Chand Aggarwal Vs. Lekh
 Raj 2014 (210) DLT 131. Relying on M/s Khem Chand
 Ramesh Kumar Vs. Smt. Vijay Mehra & Ors. 2014 (10) AD
 (Delhi) 558 it is urged that merely because the children are
 financially independent would not mean that they are not
 family members or that they are not dependent for the
 purposes of accommodation on the parents. ...... 10. In Joginder Pal (supra) the Supreme Court while
 construing who is the member dependent on the landlord
 held that keeping in view the social or socio-religious milieu
 and practices prevalent in a particular section of society or
 RICHA Digitally signed by
 RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:15:35 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 45 / 50 a particular region to which the landlord belongs, it may be
 the obligation of the landlord to settle a person closely
 connected with him to make him economically independent
 so as to support himself and/or the landlord. To discharge
 such obligation, the landlord may require the tenancy
 premises and such requirement would be the requirement of
 the landlord. The tests laid down to be applied are: (i)
 whether the requirement pleaded and proved may properly
 be regarded as the landlord's own requirement, and (ii) whether on the facts and in the circumstances of a given
 case, actual occupation and user by a person other than the
 landlord would be deemed by the landlord as "his own" 75. At this stage, this Court deems it fit to discuss the law laid down vide
 plethora of judgments by the Hon'ble Apex Court in determining, that the
 landlord is the best judge of his requirement and he is at complete liberty to
 take this call. Law is well settled that it is the landlord who has to decide as
 to how and in what manner, he should live and that he is the best judge of his
 requirement. RICHA Digitally signed by RICHA
 SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:15:41 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 46 / 50 76. In the case of Om Prakash Singhal Vs. Shri Roshan Lal , 1969 RCR 391, it
 has been held that as a broad workable rule, the landlord must left to assess
 his requirement in the background of his possession, circumstance, status
 and life and social and other responsibilities, and other relevant factors. 1. In Parvati Devi Vs. P. V. Krishna, JT 1987 (1) SC 764, it has been held as
 under :- 2. In Anil Bajaj Vs. Vinod Ahuja , MANU / SC / 0435 / 2014 : (2014) 15 SCC
 610, it has been held as under :- 3. In Balwant Singh Vs. Sudarhan Kumar, MANU / SC / 0087 / 2021, it has
 been held as under :- 4. In Shiv Sarup Gupta Vs. Mahesh Chand Gupta (Dr ) MANU / SC / 0432 /
 1999: (1999) 6 SCC 222, it has been held as under :- 77. Thus, in the light of the factual matrix of the present case and appreciating
 the same on the basis of the law reproduce as above, this court finds no
 hesitation in deducing, that the petitioner has duly satisfied this court
 regarding his bonafide requirement of the tenanted premises in question and
 further non availability of any alternative suitable accommodation for
 satisfaction of his needs entailed in the instant petition. 78. It is well settled that, the Presiding Officer of the Trial Court should place
 himself in the place of landlord to determine whether in the given facts on
 record, the need to occupy the premises by the landlord can be said to be
 natural, real, sincere and honest and the concept of bonafide need or genuine
 requirement needs a practical approach instructed by the realities of life. 79. Though the choice and the proclaimed need cannot be whimsical or merely
 fanciful yet a certain amount of discretion has to be allowed in favour of the
 landlord also and the courts should not impose their own wisdom forcibly
 upon the landlord/petitioner to arrange his/ her own affairs according to their Digitally signed by RICHA RICHA SHARMA

 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:17:34 +0530 RC ARC No.60/20 Rameshwar Dayal (Through LRs) Vs Rashtriya General Mazdoor Union Page No. 48 / 50 perception carried away by the interest or hardship of the tenants and the
 inconvenience that may result to him in passing an order of eviction. 80. I have placed myself in the place of petitioner to determine whether in the
 given facts on record, the need to occupy the premises by the landlord can be
 said to be natural, real, sincere and honest and I have also applied a practical
 approach instructed by the realities of life on the concept of bonafide need or
 genuine requirement. 81. In view of testimonies of the witnesses, it is clear, that the petitioner has been
 able to satisfy the Court, that no alternate reasonable suitable accommodate is
 available with the petitioner for satisfying his bonafide needs as detailed in
 the petition. The petitioner has succeeded in proving, that requirement as
 alleged by petitioner is bonafide. Further, the petitioner / landlord cannot be
 dictated by the tenant to chose a different place for living with his family as at
 the cost of brevity it is being stated, that neither the Court nor the respondent
 can dictate terms to the petitioner. The respondent has failed to place on
 record any document which could show that the petitioner has any suitable
 alternate accommodation available with him. CONCLUSION:- 82. Therefore, keeping in view all the facts and circumstances of the present
case, material on record, settled position of law and the reasons as discussed
earlier, I am of the considered view that the petitioner has been able to prove all
the ingredients of Sec. 14(1)(e) of D.R.C. Act. As such, the present eviction
petition is allowed and an eviction order is passed in favour of petitioner and
against the respondent in respect of the the tenanted premises i.e. Premises
consisting of Portion/Room measuring approx. 12'.6 X 16'.6', forming part of
property no. B-239, Karampura, Delhi in the site plan Ex. PW-1/4. RICHA by RICHA
 SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2025.07.31
 16:17:22 +0530 83. However, this judgment shall not be operative before the expiry of six
months from today keeping in view Sec. 14(7) of D.R.C. Act. 84. This file be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. Announced in the open Court
on 31.07.2025
 (Richa Sharma)
 Sr. Civil Judge - Cum - RC
 THC / Delhi /31.07.2025 Digitally signed by RICHA SHARMA RICHA Date: