1. This application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 is for grant of bail to the applicant in
 connection with the FIR being C.R.No. 11191011220024
 of 2022 registered at DCB Police Station, Ahmedabad,
 for the offence punishable under Sections 420 and 120B of
 IPC, Section 65 of the Information and Technology Act, 2000, Section 20 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and Section 6 of
 the Indian Wireless Telegraph Act, 1931. 2. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that, on 25.02.2022,
 one email was received at the office of ATS, from Department
 of Telecommunication stating therein that, certain calls have
 been made to Saudi Arabia and such conversations are
 suspicious. In the email, it was specifically stated that by
 using SIP trunk pilot of TATA company, the international call
 had been converted into regular voice call. Based on the
 information, DCB police station raided the premises at
 Ahmedabad where the whole conspiracy executed. During
 the raid, it was revealed that, accused Shivkumar, resident of
 Koimbatur, Tamilnadu State, was master mind of the criminal
 conspiracy and he introduced himself to the office of Page 1 of 6 Downloaded on : Tue Jul 12 20:22:06 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/10192/2022 ORDER DATED: 06/07/2022

 Ahmedabad that, he is doing business in the name of Promex
 BPM Pvt. Ltd. and BKS Mygood Pvt. Ltd. and the company
 intends to set up customer call center. The persons who have
 acted for setting up the call center used Any Desk application
 and used ASTERISK soft dialler to make functional the center.
 The accused Shivkumar informed the Ahmedabad office that,
 he created one group in Skype Application, wherein, he had
 added one Mr. James Martin and Mr. Anwar Sharif and it was
 further stated that, as per the instructions of aforesaid two
 persons, the center is required to be established. In this
 background facts, the persons of Ahmedabad office made
 functional the care center as directed by Shivkumar and after
 adding Mr. James Martin and Mr. Sharif, he obtained password
 and got access in the system. It is alleged that, Mr. Shivkumar
 with the aid of present applicant Mr. Arun Krishna Nayar,
 connected with the system to execute the criminal conspiracy
 with the object to convert international calls into GSM network
 and thereby, caused huge monetary loss to the public
 exchequer for his vested interest. 3. In the aforesaid facts, FIR came to be lodged. Accused No.1
 Anwar Abdul Jabbar, closed aid of accused Shivkumar was
 arrested and thereafter, present applicant being a technical
 export person, who was instrumental in converting the call
 through Skype App is arrested on 02.04.2022. The principal
 accused Shivkumar is still at run. Chargesheet is filed against
 the applicant herein on 22.04.2022. Application for regular
 bail moved by the applicant herein came to be rejected by the
 Sessions Court concerned. Co-accused Anwar has been
 enlarged on bail by the Sessions Court. 4. This Court has heard learned counsel for and on behalf of the
 applicant Mr. Chetan K. Pandya and learned APP for the State Page 2 of 6 Downloaded on : Tue Jul 12 20:22:06 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/10192/2022 ORDER DATED: 06/07/2022

 Ms. Krina Calla. 5. Mr. Pandya for and on behalf of the applicant submitted that,
 the applicant is having educational qualification of B.Sc,
 Electronics and Communications and initially he worked as a
 freelance IT professional and then, joined different companies.
 In this background facts, it was submitted that, the accused
 Shivkumar approached the present applicant to install a dialer
 on the pretext that he is going to set up customer care center
 of his company and accordingly, after getting the software
 from the open market, installation of dialer was made
 functional and at the behest of Shivkumar, the applicant
 herein helped in creating Skype ID of James Martin as it was
 impressed upon him that, he was his employee and when the
 connection was disconnected at Ahmedabad's computer
 system, he made necessary arrangement for restoration of
 connection using Mr. James Martin login id of Skype. In this
 context, learned counsel Mr. Pandya submitted that, the
 applicant had once used Skype ID for testing purpose only and
 the applicant was not involved in day to day business of
 Shivkumar and had never participated in any manner with the
 principal accused. The applicant did not receive any monetary
 benefits and having no any such kind of criminal record, and
 therefore, the applicant is neither involved in alleged
 conspiracy nor has abetted in execution of alleged conspiracy
 knowingly or unknowingly. 6. Learned counsel Mr. Pandya submitted that, after filing of the
 chargesheet, there is no chance for early adjudication of the
 case and therefore, keeping the applicant behind bar would
 not serve any further purpose and prayed that discretion may
 kindly be exercised by enlarging the applicant on bail. R/CR.MA/10192/2022 ORDER DATED: 06/07/2022 7. Opposing the bail application, learned APP Ms. Krina Calla
 contended that, the applicant is master mind of the whole
 conspiracy and as such there is no any existence of Mr. James
 Martin or other persons referred in the FIR. The applicant
 herein was successful in hiding his identity by using technical
 gadgets. In such circumstances, learned APP submitted that,
 all the international calls dialed from out of India where
 converted into GSM network i.e. Local calls, whereby,
 considering the local calls, authority could not charge any
 revenue. If it would have not converted, then, the concerned
 department might have get revenue as per the tariff etc.
 Therefore, considering the role attributed to the applicant
 herein, he has caused huge monetary loss to the public
 exchequer and there is all possibility of him to indulge in such
 kind of activities. 8. Heard at length and perused the charge-sheet case papers.
 Upon perusal of the chargesheet case papers, the master
 mind of the whole scam is one Mr. Shivkumar @ Shenthil, who
 is still at run. The applicant herein is qualified person of the IT
 field. He has admitted that, due to his association with
 Shivkumar and on his request to establish customer care
 center, he helped him in installation of softwares for the
 project and after disconnection of system, he helped in
 restoration of the connections and thereafter, created Skype
 ID etc. In such circumstances, if we scan the role of the
 applicant, there is no iota of evidence to show that, in any
 manner, the applicant was financially benefited in
 implementing the instructions of Mr. Shivkumar as referred
 above. The applicant is in custody since long. The prosecution
 failed to point out further custody of the applicant is
 necessary. When the applicant does not have past record, this
 Court is of view that, keeping the applicant behind bar would Page 4 of 6 Downloaded on : Tue Jul 12 20:22:06 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/10192/2022 ORDER DATED: 06/07/2022

 not serve any fruitful purpose and more particularly, in near
 future, there is no possibility to conclude the trial. 9. Therefore, present application deserves to be allowed and is
 hereby allowed. Accordingly, the applicant is ordered to be
 released on regular bail in connection with the FIR being
 C.R.No. 11191011220024 of 2022 registered at DCB
 Police Station, Ahmedabad, on executing a personal bond
 of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousands only), with one
 surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned
 Trial Court and subject to the conditions that he shall; Investigating Officer and also to the Court at the time
 of execution of the bond and shall not change the
 residence without prior permission of the trial Court; 10. The Authorities will release the applicant only if he is not
 required in connection with any other offence for the time
 being. If breach of any of the above conditions is committed,
 the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to issue warrant or
 take appropriate action in the matter. Bail bond to be
 executed before the learned Lower Court having jurisdiction to Page 5 of 6 Downloaded on : Tue Jul 12 20:22:06 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/10192/2022 ORDER DATED: 06/07/2022

 try the case. It will be open for the concerned Court to delete,
 modify and/or relax any of the above conditions, in
 accordance with law. At the trial, learned Trial Court shall not
 be influenced by the observations of preliminary nature, qua
 the evidence at this stage, made by this Court while enlarging
 the applicant on bail. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid
 extent. Direct service is permitted. (ILESH J. VORA,J)

 SUCHIT Page 6 of 6 Downloaded on : Tue Jul 12 20:22:06 IST 2022