W.P Nos.19386/2016, 21468/2016, 22370/2016 and

23622/2016 are filed in public interest and the other writ petitions

are filed by the individual persons in their personal interest. Now,

we shall go through the facts of each of the writ petitions in

seriatim. I. Brief facts of the case (a) Writ Petition No.21468/2016 (PIL) by AAB: Technical Wing consists of Chief Engineer, Superintendent Engineer,

Executive Engineer and others; Police Wing consists of Additional

Director General of Police or Inspector General of Police, Deputy

Inspector General of Police and others; General Wing consists of

Audit Officer, Office Superintendent and others. The aspirations

and the grievances of the common man have been met with since

the time Lokayukta has been constituted, which has further

received the Presidential Assent. It is hence holding the corruption

prevention mechanism by an enactment. 5. It is further submitted that by a notification dated

6.2.1991, the Police Inspectors of the Lokayukta were authorized

with the powers of investigation to meet the requirement of Section

17 of the PC Act. That thereafter by notification dated 2.11.1992,

the State Government in exercise of the power conferred by the

first proviso to Section 17 of the PC Act, authorized all the

Inspectors of Police, Office of the Karnataka Lokayukta, for the 34 purpose of the said proviso, subject to the general and overall

control and supervision by the Lokayukta or Upa-Lokayukta as the

case may be. 6. As there were certain issues which stood raised against

the creation of post of an Additional Director General of Police and

the control of the Police officers working in the Lokayukta

organization, the matter reached the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The

Apex Court in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah and others -vs-

Karnataka Lokayukta and others1 decided on 21.7.1998 laid

down the law that the Police officers on the rolls of the Karnataka

Lokayukta work under the supervision and control of the Lokayukta

and Upa-Lokayukta and there can always be a solution to the

deputation of the police officers to the Lokayukta, keeping in

view the independence of the Lokayukta and its effective

functioning as maters of utmost importance. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court also observed that the legislative intent behind the

enactment is to see that public servants covered by the sweep of

the Act should be answerable for their actions as such to the 1 AIR 1998 SC 2496 35 Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta, so that these statutory authorities

can work as real Ombudsmen for ensuring that people's faith in the

working of these public servants is not shaken. These statutory

authorities are meant to cater to the need of the public at large

with a view to see that public confidence in the working of the

public bodies remains intact. When such authorities consist of high

judicial dignitaries, it would be obvious that such authorities should

be armed with appropriate powers and sanctions so that their

orders and opinions do not become mere paper directions. The

decisions of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta, therefore, must be

capable of being fully implemented. These authorities should not be

reduced to mere paper tigers but must be armed with proper teeth

and claws so that the efforts put in by them are not wasted and

their reports are not shelved by the disciplinary authorities

concerned. 7. It is also submitted by the petitioner/Advocates

Association that KL Act was amended by Karnataka Act No.35 of

2015 and certain mechanisms to regulate the appointment of

Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta and the procedure to remove them is 36 also amended and the said ordinance has received the assent of the

Governor on 19.8.2015. With this amendment, the intention of the

State Legislature was to make the public feel proud about the

establishment of the organization and further make every action of

the said organization accountable and in genuine public interest. 8. It is further case of the petitioner/Advocates Association

that due to the reasons beyond the reach, there would be pendency

of cases, investigation, delay in securing sanction and related issues

and the learned Single Judge of this Court in Criminal Petition

No.2653/2015 has issued a series of directions to the State to

ensure that the office of Lokayukta is strengthened, capable officers

appointed, officers serving more than the period prescribed weeded

out, the public prosecutors appointed to ensure speedy trial, the

vacancies to be filled up within a time bound period and the

Lokayukta manual be prepared and circulated etc., In fact, the

respondent/State have represented to the learned Single Judge of

this Court by an affidavit that it is their endeavour to ensure that

the office of the Lokayukta is strengthened at all costs and it would

be more accountable and worthy of public trust. The learned Single 37 Judge of this Court has relied upon several judgments of the Apex

Court covering the field to strengthen the office of Lokayukta to

ensure that the mal administration is stemmed at the bud. 9. When the things stood thus, the State Government

created Anti Corruption Bureau in Karnataka by Government Order

dated 14.3.2016 and issued notifications dated 19.03.2016

authorizing all the Deputy Superintendents of Police in consonance

with Section 17 of the PC Act for the purpose of investigation. The

notification issued by the State Government is to defunct the

Lokayukta and it would virtually defeat the very purpose for which

the office of Lokayukta was constituted and created a parallel body

through an executive notification to achieve the same purpose with

lesser intent. Therefore, the notification constituting the ACB is

unsustainable, suffers from malafides and legal infirmities. When

the Karnataka Lokayukta Act was assented by the President, that

would prevail and the field occupied cannot be eroded and the

respondents cannot trench upon the occupied field. It is nothing,

but transgression by an administrative order to usurp the powers of

Lokayukta. It is further submitted that the impugned executive 38 order passed by the State Government has indirectly diluted the

powers of the Lokayukta and the ACB cannot function either as a

parallel body or an alternate body or substitute the Lokayukta.

Therefore, the notification constituting the ACB for a function

already being conferred to the Lokayukta, is impermissible in law.

Hence the present writ petition is filed for the relief sought for. (b) Writ Petition No.19386/2016 (PIL) by Advocate: 10. This writ petition is filed by Mr.Chidananda Urs.,

Practising Advocate, in public interest for a writ of certiorari to

quash the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 issued by the 1st

respondent constituting ACB as per Annexure D so also subsequent

supporting notifications dated 19.3.2016 issued by the 5th

respondent as per Annexure - E, E1 E2 and E3. 11. It is the case of petitioner that he is a practicing

Advocate for more than 15 years and he has co-authored a

commentary titled "Commentaries on Foreign Exchange

Management Act, and Money Laundering Law" which is published by

Lexis Nexis Butterworth. The petitioner is also a Chartered 39 Accountant and has been a speaker in various forums on Taxation

Laws and also on the law of money laundering. It is further case

of the petitioners that the Respondent Nos.1 to 5 by issuance of

impugned notifications have caused closure of Police Wing attached

to the premier anti corruption institution in the State of Karnataka

viz., The Karnataka Lokayukta. The institution of Karnataka

Lokayukta has been created under the provisions of the KL Act,

which came into existence for improving the standards of public

administration, by looking into complaints against administrative

actions including cases of corruption, favouritism and official

indiscipline in administrative machinery. The Police Wing attached

to the Karnataka Lokayukta was known to be discharging its dual

role, under the KL Act and also under the PC Act . The common

man has immense faith in the institution of Karnataka Lokayukta

and also its Police Wing, that too after handling investigation

relating to mining scam. Further, the common man could have

filed complaint against anybody to set the law in to motion

especially under the PC Act and there was no bureaucratic

impediment or decision required to initiate the proceedings against

a complaint. However, ACB was set up abruptly with an 40 intention to take control of the pending investigation against the

high functionaries of the State, Bureaucrats etc., It also raises a

very pertinent question as to whether the

process/proceedings/investigation initiated by the Police Wing of

Karnataka Lokayukta need any reconsideration by the ACB and also

how would such proceedings be completely taken over by another

wing when these investigations are being completed by the Police,

which amounts to waste of public money and time and also would

have deleterious consequences. 12. It is further case of the petitioner that the State

Government by the notification dated 6.2.1991 deputed Police

Personnel of various ranks to Karnataka Lokayukta and in addition

to that the notification was also issued under the provisions of Section 17 of the PC Act empowering the rank of Police Inspector

and above to investigate offences under the PC Act . By such

notification, the Police personnel on deputation to Karnataka

Lokayukta were placed under the Administrative and Supervisory

control of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta, as the case may be. The

very object of the notification referred above was to remove the 41 bureaucratic control and political interference in the matter relating

to corruption, irrespective of the rank and position of the accused

either in the bureaucractic or political circles. At this stage, it has

to be stated that a person to be appointed as the Lokayukta shall

be a person who has held the office of a Judge of the Supreme

Court or that of the Chief Justice of a High Court or a person who

has held the office of a Judge of a High Court for not less than ten

years and a person to be appointed as a Upa-lokayukta shall be

a person who has held the office of a Judge of a High Court for not

less than five years. Thus, the Police personnel who were deputed

to Karnataka Lokayukta were placed under the direct control and

supervision of a retired judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief

Justice/Judge of the High Court with an intention to command

highest respect and fearless, impartial and fair investigation to be

conducted even though Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta are not the

authorities under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure .

The object of both the enactments i.e., KL Act and PC Act was to

achieve common object and goal of corruption free society. Both

the legislations entail civil and criminal consequences and both the

authorities under these Acts are two different sides of the same 42 coin. With this laudable object, the Police Wing was deputed to

Karnataka Lokayukta for performing a dual role. 13. It is further case of the petitioner that various

reformative measures were taken and implemented by the State

Government in compliance of the orders passed in Criminal Petition

No.2653/2015. In the meanwhile, various complaints were

reported to have been filed against the incumbent Chief Minister of

the State relating to corrupt practices followed in de-notification of

lands in Arkavathi layout. It is learnt through the print media that

disproportionate asset case was also registered against one Mr.

Kapil Mohan, who is a Senior IAS Officer of the Karnataka Cadre. It

is also learnt that there are cases of corruption pending

investigation against certain MLAs and bureaucrats. In order to

protect and scuttle the investigation against political class and

bureaucrats, notification dated 14.3.2016 came to be issued

constituting ACB as authority for investigation under the PC Act ,

thereby the very purpose of KL Act was indirectly defeated. 14. It is further case of the petitioner that as per the

provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , the complainant 43 himself should not be an Investigating Officer. As per the

notification, if any complaint filed as against the Chief Minister or

the Minister in the Council of Ministers, the Chief Minister himself

has to oversee the investigation and also permit investigation,

thereby the notification issued would be opposed to the rule of law

and contrary to the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of C. Rangaswamaiah2. Thereby, he filed the present writ

petition for the reliefs sought for. (c) W.P. No.23622/2016 (PIL) by Samaj Parivarthana
Samudaya: 15. This writ petition is filed in public interest by Samaj

Parivarthana Samudaya represented by its founder President - Sri

S.R. Hiremath, for a writ of certiorari to quash the Government

Order dated 14.3.2016 issued by the State Government as per

Annexure-A so also the subsequent supporting notifications dated

19.3.2016 issued by the 2nd respondent as per Annexures - B,C,D

and E. 2 Supra at Footnote No.1 44 16. It is the case of the petitioner - 'Samaj Parivarthana

Samudaya' that it is a voluntary organization working in

Karnataka, and other parts of India since 1984. It works in close

cooperation with several other voluntary organisations, networks

and movements, to promote actions with people's power of

participation on a broader scale towards social transformation and

to bring about larger collective impacts on the Governmental

policies, deliberated legislations and programmes, for human

wellbeing. It is also engaged in the activities for betterment of the

society in general and for protection of natural resources, in

particular and working in the said direction for more than four

decades and it has filed several successful Public Interest Litigations

before the Hon'ble Supreme Court and this Court. The

petitioner/organisation has taken strenuous efforts for public cause

by seeking judicial redressal in a number of litigations and several

reported judgments in the name of the organisaton before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court and this Court clearly depict petitioner's

concern for preservation of natural resources and its fight against

corruption at all levels. 17. It is further case of the petitioner that anti corruption

institution that existed prior to 1984 was Vigilance Commission.

During the year 1984, the State Legislature enacted the KL Act

which provided for a self-contained mechanism through which the

grievance of the people of the State can get effective redressal. The Act also provided to cure some of the defects found in the

Vigilance Commission. The Act created the offices of Lokayukta and

Upa-Lokayukta. Section 3 of the KL Act regulates the method of

appointment of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta. A person to be

appointed as the Lokayukta shall be a person who has held the

office of a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of the Chief Justice

of a High Court or a person who has held the office of a Judge of a

High Court for not less than ten years and a person to be

appointed as a Upa-lokayukta shall be a person who has held the

office of a Judge of a High Court for not less than five years. There

would be sufficient number of officers to ensure the effective

functioning of the Institution. The State of Karnataka has framed

rules for recruitment of the staff in the Lokayukta called Karnataka

Lokayukta (Cadre, Recruitment and conditions of service of the

officers and employees) Rules, 1988. Rule 3 thereof provides for 46 the strength and composition of the staff of the Lokayukta and

states that the staff shall be recruited as detailed in the first

schedule of the Rules. Rule 4 of the said Rules prescribes the

method of recruitment. 18. It is further case of the petitioner that by a notification

dated 6.2.1991, the Police Inspectors of the Lokayukta were

authorized with the powers of investigation to meet the

requirement of Section 17 of the PC Act. That thereafter by

notification dated 2.11.1992, the State Government in exercise of

the power conferred by the first proviso to Section 17 of the PC Act,

authorized all the Inspectors of Police, Office of the Karnataka

Lokayukta, for the purpose of the said proviso, subject to the

general and overall control and supervision by the Lokayukta or

Upa-Lokayukta as the case may be. 19. It is further case of the petitioner that as there were

certain issues which stood raised against the creation of post of an

Additional Director General of Police and the control of the Police

officers working in the Lokayukta organization, the matter reached

the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The Apex Court in the case of C. 47 Rangaswamaiah decided on 21.7.1998 laid down the law that the

Police officers on the rolls of the Karnataka Lokayukta work under

the supervision and control of the Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta

and there can always be a solution to the deputation of the police

officers to the Lokayukta, keeping in view the independence of the

Lokayukta and its effective functioning as matters of utmost

importance. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also observed that the

legislative intent behind the enactment is to see that public

servants covered by the sweep of the Act should be answerable for

their actions as such to the Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta and such

authorities should be armed with appropriate powers and sanctions

so that their orders and opinions do not become mere paper

directions. The decisions of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta,

therefore, must be capable of being fully implemented. These

authorities should not be reduced to mere paper tigers etc., 20. It is also the case of the petitioner that KL Act was

amended by Karnataka Act No.35 of 2015 and certain mechanisms

to regulate the appointment of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta and

the procedure to remove them is also amended. It is also submitted 48 that the learned Single Judge of this Court in Criminal Petition

No.2653/2015 has issued a series of directions to the State to

ensure that the office of Lokayukta is strengthened, capable officers

appointed, officers serving more than the period prescribed weeded

out, the public prosecutors appointed to ensure speedy trial, the

vacancies to be filled up within a time bound period and the

Lokayukta manual be prepared and circulated etc., In fact, the

respondent/State have represented to the learned Single Judge of

this Court by an affidavit that it is their endeavour to ensure that

the office of the Lokayukta is strengthened at all costs and it would

be more accountable and worthy of public trust. 21. It is the case of the petitioner that when things stood

thus, contrary to the representations made before the learned

Single Judge, the State Government by Government Order dated

14.3.2016, has created Anti Corruption Bureau in Karnataka, which

would in effect virtually replace the very establishment of the

Lokayukta or make it redundant. Further, the State Government

by the notification dated 19.3.2016 authorized all the Deputy

Superintendents of Police in consonance with Section 17 of the PC 49 Act for the purpose of investigation. The notification issued by the

State Government is to defunct the Lokayukta and it would virtually

defeat the very purpose for which the office of Lokayukta was

constituted and created a parallel body through the executive

notification to achieve the same purpose with lesser intent.

Therefore, the notification constituting the ACB is unsustainable,

suffers from malafides and legal infirmities. 22. It is further case of the petitioner that the very

constitution of ACB by the Government is to shield corrupt

politicians, Ministers and the officers from the watchful eyes of the

Lokayukta and that Government is weakening the institution of

Lokayukta to protect these persons from prosecution, inter alia

under the PC Act . In fact, the petitioner made representations

from time to time before the Lokayukta against the politicians,

Ministers and the officers of the Government alleging serious

corruption and requesting the Lokayukta to initiate action. The

State is bent upon saving its corrupt Ministers and Officers and

therefore the impugned Government Order and subsequent 50 supporting notifications are contrary to the very object of the KL

Act. 23. It is also the case of the petitioner that as per the List

II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution of India, any law of the

nature of the Lokayukta Act and its enactment would be within the

competence of the State Legislature and is insulated from

administrative transgression. When the KL Act was assented by the

President, that would prevail and the field occupied cannot be

eroded and the respondents cannot trench upon the occupied field.

It is nothing but transgression by an administrative order to usurp

the powers of Lokayukta. It is further submitted that the

impugned executive order passed by the State Government has

indirectly diluted the powers of the Lokayukta and the ACB cannot

function either as a parallel body or an alternate body or substitute

the Lokayukta. Therefore, the Government Order constituting the

ACB for a function already being conferred to the Lokayukta, is

impermissible in law. 24. It is further case of the petitioner that the impugned

Government Order constituting ACB empowers the Chief Minister to 51 veto investigation or the sanction of investigation. This itself

defeats the very purpose of the Anti Corruption Drive and ACB is

not at all an independent body. The Deputy Superintendent of

Police of the ACB being a Class I Officer works under the authority

of the Chief Minister and any independent investigation is only a

mirage. No serving officers would be in a position to conduct an

enquiry against the Chief Minister under whom they would be

working as subordinates. Therefore by the constitution of ACB, the

basic investigation apparatus/mechanism is dysfunctional. The ACB

is constituted virtually to defeat the very purpose of PC Act itself.

Such an intention of the State must not be allowed to be

accomplished. In the circumstances, the present writ petition is

filed for the reliefs sought for. (d) W.P. No.16222/2017 (filed in personal interest): 25. This writ petition is filed by one Mr.K.T. Nagaraja, who

is working in the cadre of Chief Engineer in Bruhat Bengaluru

Mahanagrapalike ('BBMP' for short) in his personal interest for a

writ of certiorari to quash the Government Order dated 14.3.2016

constituting ACB. 26. It is the case of the petitioner that he has maintained

unblemished service record and working sincerely in BBMP.

However, the 3rd respondent/ACB has suo motu took up the matter

alleging that he has amassed wealth disproportionate to his known

sources of income. On 23.10.2017 the Inspector of Police attached

to the 3rd respondent/ACB has submitted the report which depicts

200% disproportionate assets accumulated by him. Based on the

said report, FIR came to be registered in Crime No.8/2017 under

the provisions of Section 13(1)(e) read with Section 13(2) of the PC

Act, on 27.2.2017. On the very next day, the 3rd respondent/ACB

has conducted raid on the house situated at No.455, III Block, 21st

Cross, 4th Link Road, Jayanagar, Bengaluru. The petitioner

challenged the FIR before this Court in Criminal Petition

No.3044/2017 and this Court by the order dated 11.4.2017 granted

interim order of stay of further proceedings. 27. It is further contended by the petitioner that the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984 has received the assent of the

President of India. The KL Act created the offices of Lokayukta and

Upa-Lokayukta. Section 3 of the KL Act regulates the method of 53 appointment of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta. Further, there

would be sufficient number of officers to ensure the effective

functioning of the Institution. The Karnataka Lokayukta

establishment was divided into four wings viz., i) Administrative and Enquiry Wing ii) Technical Wing iii) Police Wing iv) General Wing

The public servants covered under the KL Act include - - Chief Minister - All other Ministers - Members of the State Legislature - All Officers of the State Government - Chairman, Vice Chairman of local authorities - Statutory bodies/Corporation established under any law of the
 State Legislature. 28. It is further contended that by a notification dated

6.2.1991, the Police Inspectors of the Lokayukta were authorized

with the powers of investigation to meet the requirement of Section 54 17 of the PC Act. The State of Karnataka has also issued

notifications declaring the offices of Lokayukta as Police Stations

under Section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure . 29. When things stood thus, the 1st respondent passed an

Executive Order on 14.3.2016 constituting ACB which lacks

statutory force. This order passed under Article 162 of the

Constitution of India is contrary to the law. When the Police Force

has already been established under the KL Act, the State cannot

pass Executive Order constituting the ACB. The constitution of ACB

is one without authority of law and though it purports to create an

independent wing, it is controlled by the Chief Minister. The

petitioner submits that after the constitution of ACB by way of

executive order, the 2nd respondent issued notifications dated

19.3.2016, thereby superseding the earlier notifications dated

6.2.1991, 8.5.2012 and 5.12.2012. Thus, the Lokayukta Police

Force is virtually abolished by the aforesaid notifications. It is

further contended that the constitution ACB itself is without basis

and without statutory backing. The 1st respondent cannot

constitute an independent Police Force when the field is occupied by 55 the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 . The Lokayukta Police was

established under the provisions of the KL Act and therefore backed

by statute. However, the ACB is established by means of an

executive order, which has no legs to stand. The 3rd respondent

cannot perform the duty of Police unless it is established by means

of statute. Therefore, constitution of ACB itself is shaky, opposed

to the provisions of law and therefore cannot perform the duty of

the Police. 30. It is further contended that the Karnataka Lokayukta

was primarily established for making enquiries into administrative

action relatable to matter specified in List II or List III of the

Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. However,

alongside the said function, a separate Police Wing was constituted

known as 'Lokayukta Police' which was entrusted with the function

of registering, investigating and enforcement of the provisions of

the PC Act . The said Police Wing was an independent

investigating agency. The said independent investigating agency is

what was envisaged by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of 56 Prakash Singh -vs- Union of India3. Therefore, the

establishment of ACB is against the letter and spirit of the judgment

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Therefore, the petitioner sought for

quashing the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 constituting ACB

by allowing the present writ petition. (e) Writ Petition No.16223/2017 (filed in personal
interest): 31. This writ petition is filed by one Mr. Kale Gowda, who is

working as Assistant Engineer in the Public Works Department,

Mandya, in his personal interest for a writ of certiorari to quash

the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 constituting ACB so also

the First Information Report dated 6.2.2017 registered against him

in Crime No.1/2017 by the ACB and all further proceedings pending

against him on the file of the ACB. 32. It is the case of the petitioner that the 2nd

respondent/ACB collected source information regarding his alleged

income. The source report collected by the respondent No.2

includes the independent income earned by his brother-in-law and 3 (2006)8 SCC 1 57 mother-in-law. The said source report depicts that the he has

disproportionate income of 105.44% including the independent

income of his mother-in-law and brother-in-law. Based on the

said report, the 2nd respondent/ACB registered FIR against him on

6.2.2017. The petitioner further submits that Respondent

No.2/ACB sent a copy of the FIR to the concerned Court and

obtained warrant from the Court to search his house, his office and

the house belonging to his brother-in-law and mother-in-law. The

Court below, without applying mind, issued warrant permitting to

search the house belonging to his brother-in-law and mother-in-

law. The petitioner being a public servant, is governed by

Karnataka Civil Service (conduct) Rules. In fact, he has intimated

his income received from the lawful sources by filing his statement

of assets and liabilities every year. The search mahazar drawn by

the respondent No.2 does not indicate that the petitioner has other

sources of income and therefore, the petitioner has not committed

any offence under the provisions of Section 13(1)(e) of the PC Act.

Without holding proper preliminary enquiry in corruption cases, FIR

is registered, which is bad in law. 33. The petitioner further contended that the 1st respondent

passed an Executive Order on 14.3.2016 constituting ACB which

lacks statutory force. The order passed under Article 162 of the

Constitution of India is contrary to the law. The executive power of

the State with respect to which the Legislature of the State has

powers to make laws is subject to and limited by executive power.

When the Police force has already been established under the Karnataka Police Act , the State cannot pass Executive Order

constituting ACB. The constitution of ACB is one without authority

of law and though it purports to create an independent wing, it is

controlled by the Hon'ble Chief Minister. The ACB is under the

exclusive control of the political executive. Therefore, there is an

inherent danger of making ACB as a tool for subverting the process

of law. The petitioner submits that after the constitution of ACB by

way of executive order, the 2nd respondent issued notifications

dated 19.3.2016, thereby superseding the earlier notifications

dated 6.2.1991, 8.5.2002 and 5.12.2002 that authorized the

Lokayukta Police with powers to investigate and had declared the

offices of Police Inspectors of Lokayukta as Police Stations. Thus,

the Lokayukta Police Force is abolished by the aforesaid 59 notifications. It is further contended that the constitution ACB

itself is without basis and without statutory backing. The 1st

respondent cannot constitute an independent Police Force when the

field is occupied by the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 . The Lokayukta

Police was established under the provisions of the KL Act and

therefore backed by statute. However, the ACB is established by

means of an executive order, which has no legs to stand. The 2nd

respondent cannot perform the duty of Police unless it is

established by means of statute. Hence, constitution of ACB itself

is shaky, opposed to the provisions of law and therefore cannot

perform the duty of the Police. Therefore, the petitioner sought for

allowing the writ petition by quashing the Government Order dated

14.3.2016 constituting ACB so also the FIR registered against him. (f) W.P. No.16697/17 (filed in personal interest): While he was working as Village Accountant at Hirekodi village, the

5th respondent/complainant has filed false and frivolous complaint

dated 6.3.2017 before the 4th respondent alleging that the

complainant had given an application to change the revenue entry

to his name on 18.6.2016 in the office of the Tahasildar and when

he enquired about the same, he was informed by the officials of the

Tahsildar office that, he will be issued notice through the petitioner

(Village Accountant) and thereafter to submit the relevant

documents. Accordingly, the complainant visited the office of the

petitioner on 9.2.2017 and the petitioner directed him to approach

the Village Assistant by name Mr. Patel. Thereafter, the said Patel

demanded bribe amount of Rs.5,000/- stating that the petitioner

has directed to take money for doing the said work. The 4th 61 respondent based on the said baseless complaint dated 6.3.2017

registered FIR in Crime No.3/2017 against the petitioner and others

under the provisions of Sections 7 , 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) of the PC

Act . Thereafter, the 4th respondent has drawn an Entrustment

panchanama on 7.3.2017 to make an attempt to trap the petitioner

and the said Village Assistant. Accordingly, the 4th respondent

went to the office of the petitioner for conducting the trap on

7.3.2017 and alleged to have conducted trap panchanama. It is

forthcoming in the Trap panchanama that though the complainant

offered the bribe amount, the petitioner refused to accept the

same. Though the petitioner has not committed any offence

under the provisions of PC Act , he had been falsely implicated by

the 3rd respondent/ACB, which is contrary to the material on

record . Therefore, the petitioner sought to allow the writ petition

by quashing the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 so also the

complaint and FIR registered against him. (g) W.P. No. 16703/17 (filed in personal interest): One Mr. H.S. Manjunath gave a complaint before the 3rd

Respondent against the 1st and 2nd Petitioners on the ground that

they have demanded illegal gratification to do an official favour.

Based on the Complaint by the private person, First Information

Report was registered against the 1st and 2nd Petitioners in Crime

No.22/2016 dated 29/11/2016. Further, one Mr. H.C. Umesh gave

a complaint to the 3rd Respondent alleging that the 3rd Petitioner

has asked for bribe to get the pending work done. Based on the

said complaint, FIR was registered in Crime No.27/2016. The 4th

Petitioner was working as Deputy Director of Land Records,

Bangalore Rural District. While working so, one Sri. Mune Gowda

gave a complaint to the 3rd Respondent complaining that 4th 63 petitioner has demanded Rs.50,000/- illegal gratification to do an

official favour. Based on the said complaint, FIR came to be

registered in Crime No.8/2016. All the Petitioners have

approached this Court challenging the registration of First

Information Report and all the proceedings including investigation

pending on the file of the 3rd Respondent in Writ Petition No. 2131-

32/2017, Writ Petition No. 2134/2017, Writ Petition No. 6/2017,

Writ Petition No. 3146/2017 and Writ Petition No. 3147/2017. This

Court was initially granted an interim Order of Stay and thereafter,

after hearing the matter at length, this Court vacated the interim

Order. Against the vacation of interim Order, the 3rd and 4th

Petitioners have approached the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Special

Leave Petition (Criminal) No. 2303/2017 and the Hon'ble Supreme

Court stayed the Order of this Court until further Orders. Therefore,

the petitioners sought to allow the writ petition by quashing the

Government Order dated 14.3.2016. (h) Writ Petition No. 16862/17 (filed in personal interest): There are no complaints against him during his tenure for all the

years prior to filing of the writ petition. 40. When things stood thus, the 4th Respondent -

K.M.Ahmed lodged a false and frivolous complaint against the

Petitioner on 26.08.2016 before the 3rd Respondent, alleging that

he applied for sanction of 20 H.P. Power and that the petitioner

demanded for illegal gratification of Rs.20,000/- and the same has

been reduced to Rs.15,000/- towards sanction of power. On the

basis of said false complaint dated 26.8.2016, the 3rd respondent 65 conducted a trial mahazar and trap mahazar on 26.8.2016.

Consequently, the CHESCOM by its order dated 7.9.2016

suspended the petitioner. Thereafter, the CHESCOM by an order

dated 30.01.2017, revoked the said suspension order. The

petitioner sought to allow the writ petition by quashing the

Government Order dated 14.3.2016 so also the complaint lodged by

the 4th respondent and the FIR registered against him. (i) W.P. No.28341/2017 (filed in personal interest): 41. The petitioner filed this writ petition in his personal

interest for a writ of certiorari to quash the Government Order

dated 14.3.2016 constituting ACB and the subsequent supporting

Government notifications dated 19.3.2016, 30.3.2016 and

21.4.2016. 42. It is the case of the petitioner that he was working as

an Assistant Executive Engineer, Municipal Corporation, Tumkur

during 2016. On the basis of the complaint lodged by one Syed

Abu Sayeed, the respondent/ACB registered a case against the

petitioner and two others for the offences punishable under the 66 provisions of the P.C. Act , in Crime No.3/2016. On 13.10.2106, a

forceful trap was laid where Accused No.2 was purportedly caught

with the bribe money of Rs.40,000/- and he was arrested along

with Accused No.3. Since petitioner/Accused No.1 was out of

station, he had a providential escape from human dishonest design.

Therefore, the petitioner sought to allow the writ petition by

quashing the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 and the

subsequent supporting Government notifications dated 19.3.2016,

30.3.2016 and 21.4.2016. (j) W.P. No.108010/2017 (filed in personal interest) 43. The petitioner has filed this writ petition in his personal

interest for a writ of certiorari to quash the Government Order

dated 14.3.2016 constituting ACB so also the complaint dated

13.2.2017 given by the 4th respondent and the FIR dated 13.2.2017

registered in Crime No.2/2017 by the 3rd respondent/ACB. 44. It is the case of the petitioner that he was initially

appointed as Junior Engineer in the year 1994 in the Department of

Public Works, Ports and Inland Water Transport. Thereafter, he 67 was promoted as Assistant Engineer Grade - II and he has been

deputed to Hubli-Dharwad Urban Development Authority in the

year 2004 and while working there, the 4th respondent has made an

application on 6.12.2016 in respect of 6 guntas of land situated in

Sy.No.22/4. The petitioner has processed the same and has sent

the file to the Town Planning Member. 45. When things stood thus, the 4th respondent has lodged

a complaint with the 3rd respondent on 13.2.2017 alleging that on

making the application, the spot was inspected on 17.12.2016. It

is further alleged that after about a week, the 4th respondent has

visited the office of the Hubli-Dharwad Urgan Development

Authority and has met the petitioner. It was informed by the

petitioner that the cess challan amount was Rs.27,000/- and that a

further amount of the same value should be given in order to

process the file. It is further alleged that the 4th respondent refused

to pay the said amount and left the place and thereafter, the

petitioner has telephoned and informed the 4th respondent that at

least Rs.15,000/- has to be paid, which is alleged to have been

recorded on the mobile phone of the 4th respondent. It is further 68 alleged that even after several days, the file was not processed

since the 4th respondent did not pay the said amount demanded.

Therefore, the 4th respondent lodged a complaint before the 3rd

respondent. 46. On receipt of the complaint dated 13.2.2017 by the 3rd

respondent, the 3rd respondent/ACB has registered the FIR against

the petitioner under Section 7 of the PC Act in Crime No.2/2017.

Thereafter, the raiding team along with the panch witnesses have

raided the office of the petitioner. However, the trap laid by the

3rd respondent was unsuccessful and the petitioner was not caught

either in demanding or taking bribe. Inspite of trap being

unsuccessful, the petitioner was taken to custody and subsequently

was released on bail on 15.2.2017. 47. It is further case of the petitioner that being aggrieved,

the petitioner has approached this Court in Criminal Petition

No.100663/2017 seeking to quash the proceedings in Crime

No.2/2017 and the said criminal petition came to be rejected, which

is confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. It is further

submitted that in the Criminal Petition, the constitution of ACB or 69 the competence of the Inspector of Police was never called in

question. Therefore, the judgment rendered in criminal petition

would not be a bar to question the constitution of ACB and the

registration of FIR in the present writ petition. Hence, the

petitioner sought to allow the writ petition by quashing the

Government Order dated 14.3.2016 so also the complaint and FIR

registered against him by the ACB (k) Writ petition No.108689/17 (filed in personal interest): 48. This writ petition is filed by the petitioner in his

personal interest for a writ of certiorari to quash the Government

Order dated 14.3.2016 issued by the State Government constituting

ACB so also the complaint dated 9.6.2017 given by the 4th

respondent and the FIR dated 9.6.2017 registered by the ACB in

Crime No.10/2017. 49. It is the case of the petitioner that he is engaged in his

own employment of doing computer servicing and repair. On

5.6.2017, an anonymous complaint was received by the

Superintendent of Police, ACB, North Zone, Belgaum, alleging that 70 the officers of the Commercial Tax Department in the outward

check post at Nippani were collecting illegal gratification from lorries

which were transporting various materials/goods. The said

complaint was forwarded to the 4th respondent, who in turn visited

the spot. Thereafter, the 4th respondent has brought to the notice

of the 3rd respondent with regard to the complaint and the 3rd

respondent has registered the FIR for the offences punishable under Sections 7 , 8 , 13(i)(d) r/w Section 13(2) of the PC Act. The name

of the petitioner is not found in the FIR. Based on the complaint

and the FIR, the 3rd respondent has conducted a raid at the

Commercial Tax Office, Outward Check Post, Nippani on 11.6.2017.

It is submitted that on the same day, the petitioner was called to

the said check post to repair some malfunctioning computers and

when the petitioner was repairing the computers, the 3rd

respondent has conducted the raid. It is further submitted that on

conducting the raid, the petitioner was checked and an amount of

Rs.540/- was found with him, which was his personal money.

Inspite of the trap being unsuccessful, the petitioner was taken to

custody. Subsequently, he has been released on bail on

20.6.2017. The petitioner sought to allow the writ petition by 71 quashing the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 so also the

complaint and the FIR registered by the ACB. (l) Writ Petition No.108690/2017 (filed in personal
interest): (m) Writ Petition No. 22851/2018 (filed in personal
interest) 52. The petitioners have filed this writ petition in their

personal interest for a writ of certiorari to quash the Government

Order dated 14.3.2016 issued by the State Government constituting 73 ACB so also the complaint dated 12.4.2018 given by the 4th

respondent and the FIR dated 12.4.2018 registered in Crime

No.3/2018 by the 3rd respondent/ACB. 53. It is the case of the petitioners that the 1st petitioner is

a public servant working as Sub-Registrar in the Revenue

Department; 2nd petitioner is a practicing advocate in Kadur taluk;

and the 3rd petitioner is working as Computer Operator in the office

of the Sub-Registrar, Kadur. It is further contended that the

petitioner Nos.2 and 3 are not public servants. 54. It is further case of the petitioners that one Smt.

Seethamma, who is ailing and bed ridden made a request for

private attendance for registration of Will and absolute sale deed on

23.4.2018 to the 1st petitioner. After seeing the relevant records,

the 1st petitioner has personally visited the house of Smt.

Seethamma and registered two documents viz., Will and absolute

sale deed. 55. When things stood thus, the 4th respondent has given

complaint to the 3rd respondent alleging that the 1st and 2nd 74 petitioners have demanded illegal gratification to do official work by

registering the Will and absolute sale deed. The complaint given

by the 4th respondent shows that he is not connected to the

transaction and documents executed by Smt. Seethamma. Based

on the allegation made in the complaint, the 3rd respondent/ACB

has registered a case against the petitioner Nos.1 and 2 under the

provisions of Sections 7 , 8 and 13(1)(d) r/w Section 13(2) of the PC

Act in Crime NO.3/2018 on 12.4.2018. In the complaint, it is

alleged that the 2nd petitioner is a stamp vendor, which is factually

incorrect and in fact, he is a practicing advocate. 56. Based on the version of the 4th respondent, an

entrustment mahazar was drawn on 12.4.2018 and the alleged

money was given to the 4th respondent to lay a trap against the

petitioners in presence of two panchas. However, they could not

lay trap on the petitioners. Again, on 23.4.2018 one more

entrustment mahazar was drawn to lay a trap against the

petitioners. Even on the said date, they could not lay a trap

against the petitioners and therefore one more mahazar was drawn

on 23.4.2018. The petitioners further submit that again on the 3rd 75 occasion, the entrustment mahazar was drawn on 24.4.2018 at

7.45 a.m. and prepared to lay a trap on the petitioners. Even on

that day, the petitioners have not been caught red handed and the

trap was not successful. The trap mahazar shows that he 4th

respondent has given the alleged money to the 3rd petitioner who is

no way in picture till the alleged trap has taken place. The trap

mahazar does not disclose that there was a demand on the part of

the petitioner No.1 and the petitioner No.1 has accepted the

alleged illegal gratification. The purchaser, namely, one Smt. S.

Sendhamarai has appeared before the 1st petitioner and has given

a statement that there is no demand of bribe by the petitioners and

she has not given any instructions to the 4th respondent to give a

complaint against the petitioners. The petitioners sought to allow

the writ petition by quashing the Government Order dated

14.3.2016 so also the complaint and FIR registered against them by

the ACB (n) Writ Petition No.9147/2019 (filed in personal interest): At that time, one Sri Ajay Jayanthilal has applied for sanction of

building plan for construction of property in Varthu Hobli, Bangalore

East taluk, Bangalore. It is the allegation of the 4th respondent on

behalf of said Sri Ajay Jayanthilal that the petitioner and another

namely Sri Srinivas Gowda, Assistant Engineer are demanding huge

amount of bribe for sanctioning of the building plans. Since the

client of the 4th respondent is not willing to pay the bribe amount,

he has recorded the conversation of the petitioner on 19.11.2018

when he visited the office of the petitioner. Thereafter on

20.11.2018, the 4th respondent has given the complaint to the 3rd

respondent alleging that the petitioner and another have demanded 77 illegal gratification to the tune of Rs.5,00,000/- for sanction of

building plan. Based on the said complaint, the 3rd

respondent/ACB has registered the case against the petitioner

under Section 7(a) of the PC Act. The entrustment mahazar was

drawn by the 3rd respondent in presence of the panch witness on

20.11.2018. Thereafter, the 3rd respondent has laid a trap against

the petitioner and the trap mahazar was also drawn in presence of

two witnesses. The trap mahazar shows that the petitioner is not

caught red-handed and the alleged money has not been recovered

from the petitioner. It further discloses that the petitioner has

absolutely not made any demand from the 4th respondent.

Therefore, The petitioner sought to allow the writ petition by

quashing the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 so also the

complaint and FIR registered against him by the ACB. (o) Writ Petition No.18042/2019 (filed in personal
interest): - Presidential assent to the Karnataka Lokayukta Act,
 1984 ; - setting up an institution of Karnataka Lokayukta by

 abolishing the Vigilance Commission; - Government notifications dated 6.2.1991, 8.5.2002

 and 5.12.2002 that authorized the Lokayukta Police

 with powers to investigate and had declared the

 offices of Police Inspectors of Lokayukta as Police

 Stations; - method of appointment of Lokayukta and Upa- Lokayukta; - strength and composition of the staff of Lokayukta; - Division of the staff of Lokayukta into four wings viz.,

 Administrative and Enquiry Wing, Technical Wing,

 Police Wing and General Wing; - public servants covered under the KL Act; - the independent nature of power of the Police Wing of

 the Karnataka Lokayukta as held by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah

 etc., - Issuance of Government Order dated 14.3.2016 and

 subsequent supporting notifications dated 19.3.2016

 etc.,

the petitioners in all these writ petitions which are filed in personal

interest sought to allow the writ petitions by quashing the

Government Order dated 14.3.2016 so also the subsequent

supporting Government notifications dated 19.3.2016, 30.3.2016

and 21.4.2016. II. Objections filed by the respondent No.1/State of
 Karnataka in W.P. No.19386/2016 62. In the statement of objections filed by the State of

Karnataka, it is stated at the outset that the writ petition is mis-

conceived and is not maintainable, both on facts as well as law and

the same is liable to be dismissed in limine. The petitioner has 81 made references to several issues which are factually incorrect,

misleading and completely lacking in bonafides. The petitioner is

a practising Lawyer and claims to have filed the present writ

petition in public interest. The petition lacks any kind of public

interest and it is politically motivated and lacks bonafides. The

petitioner also has no locus-standi to prefer this writ petition and on

these preliminary issues itself, the writ petition is liable to be

dismissed in limine. 63. It is further stated in the objections that the Police Wing

attached to the Karnataka Lokayukta, as it stood prior to the

impugned Notifications, in so far as its functions and powers to

investigate the cases arising out of the offences committed under

the provisions of PC Act , were independent of any control by the

office of Lokayukta and was never under the control of the

Karnataka Lokayukta. Investigations 'qua' offences under PC Act were 'additional duties' entrusted to such Police of the Police Wing,

which by practice was being referred to as 'Lokayukta Police', and in

so far as its jurisdiction to investigate the offences arising out of PC

Act , it carried out its duties as contemplated under the provisions of 82 Code of Criminal Procedure, Karnataka Police Act and, the PC Act ,

independent of any 'control' by the Institution of the Karnataka

Lokayukta. This 'Police Wing' was part of the State Police, in the

same manner as the rest of the Police, in terms of the Karnataka

Police Act , in so far as it exercised its powers to investigate the

offences under the PC Act . Therefore, hue and cry that has been

made out by the petitioner to the effect that by creating the Anti

Corruption Bureau, the State Government has weakened the

institution of Lokayukta' or it has interfered with its functioning in

some manner, is wholly mis-conceived, imaginary and lacking in

bonafides; especially since petitioner claiming to be a practicing

advocate. 64. It is further stated in the objections that as can be

noticed from a reading of Sections 7, 8, 9 and 12 of KL Act,

investigations contemplated are of civil nature ultimately resulting

in reports and recommending appropriate action to be taken

thereon. Under Section 14 of KL Act, when Lokayukta is satisfied

that public servant has committed any 'criminal offence' and should 83 be prosecuted for such offence, then he may pass an order to that

effect and initiate prosecution of the public servant concerned. 65. It is further stated in the objections that on enactment

of 1984 Act, the Lokayukta Institution was provided with a 'police

wing', a ' technical wing' and, an 'enquiry wing for carrying out

the functions, under the KL Act. The KL Act empowers the

Lokayukta to inquire into complaints against public servants.

However, it does not empower Lokayukta to conduct or supervise

criminal investigations into the offences of corruption by the public

servants and others, punishable under the Indian Penal Code or the PC Act or under any other statute. The State Government is

empowered to designate an 'office' as a Police Station' under section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 66. It is further stated in the objections that the PC Act and,

the Indian Penal Code . define the offences of corruption and

prescribe punishments. The procedure for investigation into

offences relating to corruption is laid down in the Code of Criminal

Procedure and the PC Act. Accordingly, the Government, exercising

its powers under Section 17 of the PC Act, had earlier issued a 84 notification on 06.02.1991 entrusting the Inspectors of Police, on

deputation to the Karnataka Lokayukta "police wing', with the

powers of investigation under the PC Act . In addition, the State

Government exercising its power under section 2(s) of the Criminal

Procedure Code, had declared the offices of the Police wing of

Karnataka Lokayukta as the 'police stations' vide Notifications dated

08.05.2002 and 05.12.2002. 67. It is also stated in the objections that in the year 1992,

the Government by executive order, created a Bureau of

Investigation (BOI) in the Karnataka Lokayukta, which was headed

by a Director General (DG) in the rank of Additional Director

General of Police. The Director General was made an independent

head of the department with a separate Budget Head. However, in

1998, the Government abolished the 'Bureau of Investigation' and

the 'post of Director General' and the power of the Head of the

Department was also withdrawn. The Registrar, Karnataka

Lokayukta, was authorized to operate the finances of the Police

wing. This action of the Government brought the 'police wing' under

the administrative and financial control of the office of Lokayukta. 85 As a result, Police officers having powers of investigation under the PC Act , were brought administratively subordinate to the Lokayukta

who had however no statutory powers or duties to administer any

penal statute, like Indian Penal Code, PC Act. The Lokayukta has

powers of a Civil Court in terms of provisions of Lokayukta Act , but

not a Criminal Court. 68. It is further stated in the objections that the issue of

competence of Lokayukta Police Wing to investigate the cases

under the PC Act was challenged before this Court and later before

the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The Apex Court in the case of C.

Rangaswamaiah -vs- Karnataka Lokayukta4, finally decided (in

1998) on this issue, stating that, the police officers of the State on

deputation to Karnataka Lokayukta continued to remain public

servants in the services of the State Government, as long as they

were not absorbed in the Karnataka Lokayukta. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held as under: 69. It is further contended that the Lokayukta derives

powers and functions under the KL Act, which gives power to

inquire into any action taken by any public servant, in any case

where a complaint involving a grievance or an allegation is made in

respect of such action. For such enquiry, he is given the power of

civil court and the assistance of an 'enquiry wing', a 'technical wing'

and a 'police wing'. After such enquiry/investigation, the Lokayukta

is empowered to ask the competent authority to remedy or redress

the injustice or hardship. He is also empowered to send a detailed

report of investigation to the competent authority, which shall

examine and take action based on the report. The above powers of

the Lokayukta under the Lokayukta Act do not envisage any 87 authority to Lokayukta, under criminal statues like Indian Penal

Code and PC Act. 70. In view of the above legal position and after considering

all the aspects of the matter, the State Government in the interest

of effective implementation of both the KL Act and the PC Act, took

a conscious decision to formalize the space between the Lokayukta

and the Police wing by separating the powers of the Lokayukta

Police Wing investigating into the criminal offences under Indian

Penal Code and PC Act. Accordingly, the State Government issued

the G.O.No.DPAR 14 SLU 2016, dated 14.03.2016 constituting an

independent Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on the lines of the

Central Bureau of Investigation, without disturbing the powers and

functions of the Lokayukta under the Lokayukta Act . In view of the

constitution of the new Anti Corruption Bureau in the State of

Karnataka, the powers of investigation given to the Police of

Lokayukta Police Wing earlier under Section 17 of the PC Act and

the Police Station status given to the offices of the Inspectors of

Police under Section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the

purpose of Prevention of Corruption Act were withdrawn. 88 Thereby, the respondent/State denied the averments made in the

writ petition and sought to reject the writ petition. III. Objections filed by the 2nd respondent/ACB in WP 16223/17 and WP 16697/17 71. The 2nd respondent - ACB filed objections denying the

averments made in the writ petitions and contended that in cases

pertaining to the PC Act, 1988 , there exists a statutory bar to the

grant of interim relief in the form of stay of proceedings under the

Act. The petitioners in the present writ petitions have not alleged

that due to any stated irregularity or omission on behalf of the 2nd

respondent, any failure of justice has been occasioned. Further, as

per the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State

of Madhya Pradesh -vs- Virender Kumar Tripathi5, the stage

at which failure of justice may be claimed has not even reached in

the present cases. It is further contended that Writ Petition is not

maintainable and the same is liable to be dismissed in limine for the

following reasons : 72. Thus, the respondent/State has denied the averments

made in the writ petition and sought for dismissal of the writ

petition. 73. Except in the above writ petitions, neither the State nor

any other respondent has filed statement of objections in other writ

petitions including in the PILs filed by the Advocates' Association,

Bengaluru in Writ Petition No.21468/2016 and also in the writ 90 petition filed by Samaj Parivarthana Samudaya in Writ Petition

No.23622/2016. IV. Statement of legal submissions of Karnataka Lokayukta
 in W.P. No. 19386/2016, W.P. No.23622/2016, 58252-
 58256/2017, 3109-3113/2018, 4319-4328/2018 and 47109/2018 74. It is contended that as per the recommendations of the

Administrative Reforms Commission, the Institution of Lokayukta

was set up "for the purpose of improving the standards of public

administration, by looking into complaints against administrative

actions, including cases of corruption, favouritism and official

indiscipline in administrative machinery." The Institution of

Lokayukta was created in 1985 under the KL Act, which received

the assent of President of India on 16.1.1985. As per Statement of

Objects and Reasons of the KL Act, apart from looking into

complaints against administrative actions, including cases of

corruption, the KL Act deals with definition of "corruption", which

includes anything made punishable under the provisions of the PC

Act . The terms, 'Action', 'Allegation', 'Grievance', and

'Maladministration' are defined under Section 2 ; Section 7 deals 91 with matters which may be investigated by Lokayukta and an Upa-

Lokayukta; Section 9 deals with provisions relating to complaints

and investigations; Section 12 relates to reports of Lokayukta etc.; Section 14 deals with initiation of prosecution; Section 15 relates

to staff of Lokayukta; and Sections 17 , 17A and 19 deal with insult,

contempt, inquiry, delegation etc., 75. By a combined reading of the objects of the KL Act and

provisions of the said Act, it is clear that the Act is substantive law

dealing with cases of corruption in public administration. The

Government of Karnataka filled up certain gaps in the KL Act, by

issuing the earlier notifications dated 26.5.1986 under section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and notification dated 26.5.1986

under Section 17 of the PC Act for the purpose of investing the

Police Officers of the Karnataka Lokayukta for investigation of the

offences under PC Act . To the same effect were the subsequent

notifications dated 6.2.1991, 2.11.1992, 8.5.2002 and 5.12.2002;

whereby the Government of Karnataka empowered and entrusted

the powers of investigation in the officers of Lokayukta for the

purpose of PC Act , subject to the overall control and supervision by 92 the Lokayukta or UpaLokayukta as the case may be. The said

actions of the Government of Karnataka entrusting additional

functions in the police officers attached to the Police Wing to the

Lokayukta has been considered and approved by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah -vs- Karnataka

Lokayukta6. In the said case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

specifically considered the issue of deputation and entrustment of

additional functions by seeking to harmonize Section 17 of the PC

Act and Section 15 of KL Act. As observed by the Apex Court in

paragraphs 23 to 28, consent of the Lokayukta was necessary for

the purpose of entrusting the functions of the investigation under Section 17 of the PC Act. The relevant portion of paragraph 23 is

as under: 76. In view of the observations and findings in the case of

Rangaswamaiah7 stated supra, it is submitted that the converse

of the same is true, in as much as, the consent of borrowing 6 Supra at Footnote No.1 7 Supra at Footnote No.1 93 authority should be obtained before withdrawing from the extra

duties. The Hon'ble Supreme Court subsequently described how

the process of consultation should be followed in the case of

Justice Chandrahekaraiah (Retd.) -vs- Janekere C. Krishna

and others8. 77. It is further contended that for the issue of the

notification dated 19.3.2016, purporting to withdraw the powers of

the Lokayukta Police, the Government of Karnataka seeks to derive

its power from Section 21 of General Clauses Act, 1897 for the

purpose of withdrawing the police powers granted to the Lokayukta

Police for issuing earlier notification of 1986, 1991, 1992 and 2002.

The Apex Court has held the consent of the borrowing authority is

necessary for entrustment of extra duties. As soon as such duties

were entrusted, the power under Section 17 of the PC Act is used

up. In view of the fact that similar conditions were not fulfilled and

since the requirement of 'information', or 'approval' or 'consultation'

or 'obtaining consent' has not been complied with, by the

Government of Karnataka for the purpose of withdrawing or 8 AIR 2013 SC 726. superseding the earlier notifications, the Government of Karnataka

should have fulfilled the conditions which would have enabled them

to exercise the power. However, since the consent of the

Karnataka Lokayukta was not obtained for the withdrawal of the

police powers by the issue of notification dated 19.3.2016, the

power under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is not available.

As held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of

Madhya Pradesh -vs- Ajay Singh9, the general power under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, to rescind the notification

has to be understood in the light of the subject matter, context and

effect of the relevant provisions of the statute under which

notification is issued and the power not available after an

enforceable right as accurate under notification. 78. It is further contended that the Hon'ble Supreme court

in the case of Justice Chandrahekaraiah (Retd.) -vs- Janekere

C. Krishna and others10 stated supra has referred to the

recommendations of the Administrative Reforms Commission which

has recommended for appointment of the authority which is 9 AIR 1993 SC 825 10 AIR 2013 SC 726 95 independent of the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. It is

further observed that the Institution of the Lokayukta should be

demonstrably independent and impartial. 79. The power of initiating prosecution is invested with the

Lokayukta under Section 14 of the KL Act, the formation of another

Bureau, Department, Wing or any other Team, which is not under

the supervision and control of the Lokayukta does not align with

object of the KL Act. 80. Since the 'decision making' Public Servants have been

placed differently, compared to the other Public Servants in terms

of the notification dated 14.3.2016, there is violation of

fundamental right under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of

India. A Police officer who is working under the disciplinary

control of the Home Department and/or Government of Karnataka,

while being an Investigating officer under the Anti Corruption

Bureau cannot be expected to conduct a fair and impartial inquiry

or investigation in relation to high ranking Public Servants. On the

other hand , a police officer working under the supervision of the

Lokayukta is insulated from such influence. Article 21 of the 96 Constitution of India ensures right to life and liberty to every

person. The said rights are required to be protected and

safeguarded even in respect of 'public servants' falling within the

definition of Section 2(12) of the KL Act, in the larger public

interest. The representatives of the people, who are public servants

and also full time government officials, who are government

servants, are well protected if the investigation powers under the PC Act , are with the Lokayukta. There is absolutely no chance for

vindictive action at the instance of political opponent against the

representatives of the people. Same is the position in respect of the

bureaucrats who take an independent decision in the larger public

interest. If the investigation agency is not independent then the

right to life and liberty guaranteed to the citizens under Article 21 is

threatened. 81. Under the KL Act and Karnataka Lokayukta Rules -

1985, undisputedly Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta are declared to

be persons of high responsibility and of impeccable character and is

given status akin to the Chief Justice of India. Some of the relevant 97 provisions which ensure independence of Lokayukta as provided

under the provisions of KL Act and Rules are as under: Corporation, Company, Society or University relating to

 Government of Karnataka. 82. It is further contended that the Police Officers who are

working for the Karnataka Lokayukta cannot be removed without

the consent of the Lokayukta as contemplated in terms of Section

15 of the KL Act. The object of this provision is to ensure the

independence of the investigating agency. Under Section 15(3) of

the KL Act, the said Police Officers are under the direct supervision

and disciplinary control of the Lokayukta as per Section 15(3) of the

KL Act. So far as the ACB Police are concerned, they are under the

direct control of the Executive and their tenure in it is not ensured.

The interference in their investigation by the Executive is not ruled

out. Therefore, the fear/threat of transfer or vindictive action

against them is also not ruled out. The notification dated

19.3.2016 issued by Government of Karnataka withdrawing status

of the Police Station on Lokayukta is contrary to the provisions of

Section 14 of KL Act read along with other provisions of the said Act

and PC Act as well as Karnataka Police Act, 1963 . Even if it is

held that the notification dated 19.3.2016 withdrawing the status 100 of Police Station as per Section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure on the Officers of the Lokayukta, is valid in law, it is

permissible for Lokayukta to independently exercise the power of

getting an FIR registered on the basis of the complaint laid before

Lokayukta etc., 83. A careful reading of Section 14 of the KL Act makes it

clear that, after investigation into any complaint, in case the

Lokayukta or an UpaLokayukta is satisfied that a public servant has

committed "any" criminal offence and should be prosecuted in a

court of law for such offence, then he may pass an order to that

effect and initiate prosecution of the public servant concerned and if

prior sanction of any authority is required for such prosecution,

then notwithstanding anything contained in any law, such sanction

shall be deemed to have been granted by the appropriate authority

on the date of such order. 84. As already stated supra, the KL Act has been passed on

the basis of the recommendation made by the Administrative

Reforms Commission, recommending for setting up of an Institution

of Lokayukta for the purpose of improving the standard of public 101 administration, by looking into the complaints against the

administrative actions, including cases of corruption, favouritism

and official indiscipline in administrative measure. It is further

contended that there cannot be two views that by means of

legislation itself it was open to the Legislature to create an

institution conferring powers of investigation both under criminal

and civil jurisdiction. The reading of several provisions of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act makes it clear that the Lokayukta as an

institution having been created for the purpose of preventing

maladministration in public administration of the State, is

empowered to do so not only by instituting disciplinary action

against erring public servants but also by initiating criminal

proceedings, wherever required on the basis of the materials on

record. 85. The provisions of Sections 7(1) and 7(2A) of the KL

Act confers the power to the Lokayukta to investigate against the

several authorities/public servants of the State and empower the

Lokayukta or an UpaLokayukta to investigate any action taken by or

with the general or specific approval of the public servant, if it is 102 referred to him by the State Government. Section 8 of the KL Act

specifically bars the matter set out in the said Section from

investigation and section 9 of the KL Act enables any persons to

make a complaint under the said Act to the Lokayukta or Upa-

Lokayukta. No doubt the Act does not define what is meant by

'complaint'. The provisions of section 9(2) of the KL Act stipulates

that the complaint should be made in the prescribed form under

Rule 4 of the Karnataka Lokayukta Rules. Though the definition of

'complaint' is not provided in the Act, the Act defines the terms

'Allegation' under Section 2(2) ; 'Grievance' under Section 2(8) ;

'Corruption' under Section 2(5) ; and 'Mal-administration' under

Section 2(10) of the KL Act. In the absence of specific provision in

the Act, it is well settled that the Courts can look into the definition

of those terms provided in the similar statutes or general definition

provided. 86. It is further contended that under the provisions of Section 2(e) of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act - 2013, the

'complaint' is defined as under: 87. It is further contended that Section 15 of the KL Act

relates to staff of Lokayukta. The object of Section 15 is to make

the institution of Lokayukta autonomous and its staff to be under

the direct administrative supervision and disciplinary control of the

Lokayukta, with a view to ensure independence and objectivity to

the said staff of the Lokayukta in assisting the

Lokayukta/Upalokayukta in discharge of their duties. It is further

contended that the object of the enactment is to provide

transparency in public administration. In this context, it is relevant

to refer to Section 190 of the Code of Criminal procedure, which

deals with powers of the Magistrate to take cognizance of the

offence by Magistrates. In view of the provisions of Section 190 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Magistrate can take cognizance

on the basis of the (1) complaint. (2) Police Report and (3) suo

motu (Upon his own knowledge). Therefore, cognizance of an 104 offence can be taken on the basis of the police report or on the

basis of a complaint filed as provided under Section 200 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure and also suo motu, that is on the basis of

information. 88. Section 23 of the KL Act empowers the State

Government by Notification in its official gazette to make rules for

the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the said Act. In

exercise of the said power, the State Government has framed the

Karnataka Lokayukta (Cadre, Recruitment and Conditions of Service

of the Officers and Employees) Rules, 1988. Rule 3 of the said

Rules provides for strength and composition of the staff of

Lokayukta. Rule 4 provides for recruitment and minimum

qualification of the Staff. First Schedule of the said Rules provides

for four wings in the Lokayukta. They are: 89. It is further contended that 2nd Schedule of the said

Rules provide for the qualification of the staff to be recruited or

deputed. Technical Wing consists of officials in the cadre of Chief

Engineer/Engineers and Deputy Director of Statistics as well as

Deputy Controller of Accounts. The Police Wing consists of the staff

deputed from Police Department in the cadre of IPS as well as

Karnataka Police Service. 90. The cadre of the officers who are part of the institution

of Lokayukta includes one Police Officer in the rank of Additional

Director General of Police, who is an IPS Officer, one police officer

in the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police, 23 police officers

in the rank of Superintendent of Police, 43 police officers in the rank

of Deputy Superintendent of Police, 90 police officers in the rank of

Police Inspector, 13 police officers in the rank of Police Sub-

Inspector, 4 police officers in the rank of Assistant Sub-Inspector of

Police and 145 police officers in the cadre of Head Constable. Apart

from the above, 234 Civil Police Constables, 15 Head Constable

Drivers, 30 Armed Police Constables and 148 Armed Police

Constable Drivers. Therefore, statutorily a Police Wing is created 106 and made as an inseparable part of the Lokayukta Institution. The

powers of the Police Wing in no way can be taken away by virtue of

the two notifications impugned in the present writ petition, one

withdrawing status of police stations of Lokayukta and the second

constituting ACB. The Police Wing attached to the institution of

Lokayukta has all the powers and duties conferred on it under the Karnataka Police Act, 1964 , and also under the Code of Criminal

Procedure . 91. It is further contended that Section 2(16) of the

Karnataka Police Act defines the term "Police Officer", which means

any member of the Police force appointed or deemed to be

appointed under the said Act and includes a special or an additional

police officer appointed under section 19 or 20 of the said Act. Section 65 of the Police Act provides for duties of a Police Officer. 92. It is also contended that the only restriction provided

under the provisions of PC Act is that the officer to investigate the

offences punishable under the PC Act should not be below the rank

of DySP, as is clear from the reading of Section 17(c) of PC Act.

Therefore, cadre strength of the Karnataka Lokayukta referred to 107 above shows that there are police officers in the cadre of ADGP,

DIGP, SP and Dy.SPs in all around 747 officers. As such, there

cannot be any difficulty or objection for the Lokayukta Police in the

cadre referred to above to conduct investigation in respect of the

offences punishable under PC Act . There is no prohibition under the PC Act in relation to the power of the Lokayukta Police, referred to

above, to conduct any investigation with regard to the offences

punishable under PC Act . 93. It is further contended that KL Act is a self contained

code providing for investigation, filing of complaint and all other

incidental matters with the police attached to the Lokayukta

institution by virtue of statutory provisions. Thereby, when the

Karnataka Lokayukta .Act is holding the field, it is not permissible

for the State in exercise of its executive power under Article 162 of

the Constitution of India to constitute ACB to nullify the power

conferred on the Lokayukta as an institution under the KL Act. In

support of its contention, Lokayukta relied upon judgment of the 108 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of I.T.C. Bhadrachalam 11 Paperboards vs. Mandal Revenue Officer, AP . 94. It is further contended that the State Government

under Article 162 of the Constitution of India, has issued

notification constituting ACB on an erroneous understanding of the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of C.

Rangaswamaiah and others -vs- Karnataka Lokayukta and 12 others .In fact the said judgment curtails the power of the State

Government to constitute ACB or any alternative mode of

investigating agency and interfere with the functioning of the

Lokayukta. The only principle in the Rangaswamaiah13 case is

that, it permits entrustment of extra work to any other investigating

agency/ACB only to a limited extent and that too with the consent

of Lokayukta. In the present case, the consent of the Lokayukta

has not been obtained. It is further contended that the power is

conferred on a very high authority, who is either the former Judge

of Supreme Court or who was the Chief Justice of the High Court or 11 (1996)6 SCC 634. Supra at Footnote No.1 13 Supra at Footnote No.1 109 who has been a Judge of the High Court for a period more than 10

years to be Lokayukta and any High Court Judge to be

Upalokayukta. It is well settled principle of law that while

interpreting the provisions of law, the object of the legislation is

required to be kept in mind, as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in case of Manmohan Das v. Bishun Das14 . 95. In view of the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the case of Institution of A.P. Lokayukta UpaLokayukta &

Others v. T. Rama Subba Reddy & Another15 (Para 17) and the

mandate of Section 63 of the Lokpal and Lokayukta Act, 2013, any

effort to disband the Institution of the Karnataka Lokayukta will be

regressive. Hence, the Government Order dated 14.03.2016,

notification dated 19.03.2016 and all subsequent notifications

issued pursuant to the Government Order dated 14.03.2016 for the

purpose of formation and working of the ACB, could not have been

issued. The same is hit by the requirement of Section 21 of the

General Clauses Act. 14 AIR 1967 SC 643. 15 (1997) 9 SCC 42 110 96. The notifications dated 19.3.2016 withdrawing the

powers of the Lokayukta Police under Section 17 of the PC Act read

with Section 21 of the GC Act, is bad in law and there is no source

of power to issue such notifications. 97. It is further contended that the Government Order

dated 14.03.2016, is not tenable in view of the same being contrary

to the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court. Paragraph 5 of

the Government Order seeks to create an additional layer, which is

not in consonance with the judgements of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Vineet Narain v. Union of India16 and Dr.

Subramanian Swamy v. Director, CBI & Another17 . In the

circumstances sought to pass appropriate orders in the interest of

public at large. 98. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties. 16 AIR 1998 SC 889 17 (2014) 8 SCC 682 111 V. Arguments advanced by Sri Ravi B. Naik, learned senior
 counsel for Sri K.B. Monesh Kumar, learned counsel for the
 petitioners in W.P. Nos.19386/2016 and 21468/2016 99. Sri Ravi B. Naiik, learned senior counsel for the

petitioners in Writ Petition Nos.19386/2016 and 21468/2016

contended that the provisions of Section 17 of the P.C. Act specifies

the persons authorized to investigate any offence punishable under

the said Act. He would further contend that earlier notifications

dated 6.2.1991 and 2.11.1992 were issued by the State

Government in support of the Lokayukta. In view of the provisions

of section 15 of the KL Act, there shall be such officers and

employees as may be prescribed to assist the Lokayukta and the

Upa-Lokayukta in the discharge of their functions under the said

Act. He would further contend that without prejudice to the

provisions of Section-1 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013,

the Lokpal may, for the purpose of conducting any preliminary

inquiry or investigation, utilise the services of any officer or

organization or investigating agency of the Central Government or

any State Government, as the case may be with prior concurrence

of Central and State Government. 100. The learned senior counsel further contended that the

statutory powers assigned to Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta under

the provisions of the KL Act cannot be diluted by the executive

orders passed by the State Government under Article 162 of the

Constitution of India. The provisions of Section 23 of the KL Act

empowers the Government to make rules. He would further

contend that earlier the State Government, in exercise of the

powers conferred by Clause (s) of Section 2 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, has issued notification declaring the offices of Lokayukta

Police as Police Stations, thereby they have power to investigate

the offences punishable under the PC Act . The same is withdrawn

by the impugned executive order, thereby made the Lokayukta and

Upa-Lokayukta powerless - paper tigers. He would further contend

that the State Government by notification dated 2.11.1992 and in

partial modification of the earlier Notification dated 6.2.1991, has

authorized all the Inspectors of Police, Office of the Karnataka

Lokayukta for the purpose of the proviso to Section 17 of the PC

Act, subject to the overall control and supervision by the Lokayukta

or Upa-Lokayukta as the case may be. Now by virtue of the

present notification, the said power is withdrawn which is 113 impermissible. The learned senior counsel further contended that

the field occupied under the provisions of the KL Act, cannot be

taken away by the State Government by way of the notification

dated 14.3.2016, thereby he sought to allow the petition. 101. In support of his contentions, learned senior counsel

relied upon the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of C. Rangaswamaiah -vs- Karnataka Lokayukta18

(paragraphs 26 to 30). VI. Arguments advanced by Sri M.S. Bhagwat, learned senior
 counsel for the petitioners in Writ Petition Nos.9147/2019,
 16222/2017, 16223/2017, 16703/2017, 108010/2017,
 108689/2017, 108690/2017 and 22851/2018 102. Writ Petition Nos.9147/2019, 16222/2017, 16223/2017,

16703/2017, 108010/2017, 108689/2017, 108690/2017 and

22851/2018 are filed by the individual petitioners in their personal

interest challenging the Government Order dated 14/03/2016

constituting ACB under Article 162 of Constitution of India. 103. Sri M.S. Bhagwat, learned senior counsel appearing for

petitioners in the above writ petitions contended that Entry-2 of List 18 Supra at Footnote No.1 114 II to the 7th Schedule of the Constitution of India contemplates

Police (including railway and village police) subject to the provisions

of Entry 2A of List-I. Entry 2A of List-I contemplates deployment

of any armed force of the Union or any other force subject to the

control of the Union or any contingent or unit thereof in any State

in aid of the Civil power; powers, jurisdiction, privileges and

liabilities of the members of such forces while on such deployment.

He would further contend that the provisions of Section 3 of the

Karnataka Police Act, 1963 contemplates that "there shall be one

Police Force for the whole State", thereby the State cannot create

one more police wing i.e., ACB under Article 162 of the Constitution

of India. He would further contend that the provisions of Section 4 of the Karnataka Police Act contemplates Superintendence of Police

Force to vest in the Government. The provisions of Section 20-A of

the Karnataka Police Act contemplates the State Security

Commission. When there is a specific wing under the Karnataka

Police Act , introducing of one more authority would not arise,

thereby the Executive order of the Government dated 14/03/2016

is contrary to the provisions of Sections - 3, 4 and 20- A of the

Police Act . Absolutely, there is no possibility of impartial 115 investigation at the instance of the authority constituted under the

notification. He further contended that the object of the Lokayukta

Act depicts that the Administrative Reforms Commission had

recommended for setting up of the institution of Lokayukta for the

purpose of improving the standards of public administration, by

looking into complaints against administrative actions, including

cases of corruption, favouritism and official indiscipline in

administration machinery. He referred to the provisions of Section 2

(2) of the KL Act, which contemplates that 'allegation' in relation to

a public servant means any affirmation that such public servant - (a) has abused his position as such public servant to
 obtain any gain or favour to himself or to any other
 person or to cause undue harm or hardship to any
 other person; (b) was actuated in the discharge of his functions as
 such public servant by personal interest or improper
 or corrupt motives; and (c) is guilty of corruption, favourtisim, nepotism, or
 lack of integrity in his capacity as such public servant. 116 104. Learned senior counsel contended that as per sub-

section (5) of Section 2 of the KL Act, 'corruption' includes

anything made punishable under Chapter IX of the Indian Penal

Code or under the provisions of PC Act . He also contended that

sub-section(8) of Section 2 of the KL Act defines 'grievance', which

means a claim by a person that he sustained injustice or undue

hardship in consequence of maladministration. He further

contended that Section 7 of the KL Act deals with matters which

may be investigated by the Lokayukta and an Upa-Lokayukta.

Section 7(2) of the KL Act prescribes that subject to the provisions

of the said Act, an Upa-lokayukta may investigate any action which

is taken by or with the general or specific approval of, any public

servant not being the Chief Minister, Minister, Member of the

Legislature, Secretary or other public servant refereed to in sub-

section (1), in any case where a complaint involving a grievance or

an allegation is made in respect of such action or such action can be

or could have been, in the opinion of the Upa-Lokayukta recorded in

writing, the subject of a grievance or an allegation. 117 105. Learned senior counsel further contended that the

provisions of Section 14 of the KL Act contemplates initiation of

prosecution and Section 23 of the KL Act contemplates power to

make rules. He further contended that a separate police wing has

been constituted to look after the allegation of corruption against

the public servant. In view of the aforesaid provisions of KL Act

and the Rules, the State Government has no authority to pass an

executive order under the provisions of the Article 162 of the

Constriction of India, diluting the statutory powers as contemplated

under the KL Act and the Police Act. He would further contend that Section 63 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 relates to

establishment of Lokayukta and as per the said Section, every State

shall establish a body to be known as the Lokayukta for the State, if

not so established, constituted or appointed, by a law made by the

State Legislature, to deal with complaints relating to corruption

against certain public functionaries, within a period of one year

from the date of commencement of the said Act. He would further

contend that the object of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act as stated

supra is that there must be a Lokayukta to deal with complaints and

eradicate the corruption under certain public functionaries, thereby 118 the executive order passed by the State Government is

impermissible and the State Government indirectly encouraging the

corruption in the State. Therefore, he sought to allow the writ

petitions. 106. In support of his contentions, the learned senior counsel

relied upon the following judgments: 107. Sri V. Lakshminarayana, learned senior counsel, on

instructions from the instructing counsel, submitted that W.P.

No.58252/2017, 3109/2018 and 4319/2018 may be dismissed as

withdrawn and accordingly, the said writ petitions were dismissed

as withdrawn by separate orders on 27.6.2022. However, since

he was appearing for some of the private parties and has argued

the matter at length, this Court by the order dated 27.6.2022

requested him to assist the Court as an amicus curiae.

Accordingly, he assisted the Court as amicus curiae. 108. Sri V. Lakshminarayan, learned senior counsel/amicus

curiae while referring to the impugned notification dated 14.3.2016,

has contended that notification contemplates that the Government

has realized necessity of a strong and effective vigilance system in 120 addition to the Karnataka Lokayukta, in order to prevent the

inappropriate operation of the administrative apparatus and

improve the administration and therefore, it has been decided to

divest Karnataka Lokayukta of its additional responsibility under the PC Act , thereby the Government has ordered to create an Anti

Corruption Bureau so as to effectively enforce and conduct

independent investigations under the PC Act , establish Vigilance

Cells in all the departments of the government and a Vigilance

Advisory Board to supervise such a system of vigilance. He would

further contend that vide Notification dated 14/03/2016, the ACB

was created with the following designations: 109. Learned senior counsel/amicus curiae further pointed

out that the Notification contemplates that the ACB will function

under the overall supervision of the Department of Personnel and

Administrative Reforms and in order to provide the necessary

administrative support to the ACB, a post of the rank of Secretary

would be created in the Department of Personnel and

Administrative Reforms and under his leadership, a Vigilance Wing

is created. The Secretary of the DPAR Vigilance Wing will report to

the Hon'ble Chief Minister through the Chief Secretary. 122 110. Learned senior counsel/amicus curiae would further

contend that by virtue of Government Order, the independent

powers conferred under the statute has been removed which is

impermissible. He would further contend that the Hon'ble Chief

Minister has no role in the independent investigation by the

competent authority, thereby the Government Order dated

14/03/2016 is contrary to the object of the KL Act. The

investigation has to be done by the Lokayukta under the PC Act and

the State cannot appoint other agency by way of executive order to

proceed under the provisions of Section 17 of the PC Act. He would

further contend that the authority should be independent of the

Executive, Legislature, Judiciary and the fourth wing-Press & Media. 111. Learned senior counsel would further contend that

under the provisions of Section 15(3) of the KL Act, the Lokayukta

or an Upa-lokayukta may for the purpose of conducting

investigations under this Act utilise the services of any officer or

investigating agency of the State Government or the Central

Government. 112. Learned senior counsel/amicus curiae further

contended that 'United Nations Convention against Corruption' is

committed to pursue the policy of zero tolerance against corruption

and the instrument of ratification is dated 9.5.2011. He further

contended that the Police Officers are under the administrative

control of the Lokayukta or Upa-lokayukta under the Act. He

invited the attention of the Court to Article 1 of United Nations

Convention against corruption, which relates to statement of

purpose. The purposes of Convention are: 113. Learned senior counsel/amicus curiae also invited the

attention of the Court to Article-3 of United Nations Convention

against corruption, which relates to scope of application. Article-3

prescribes that the convention shall apply, in accordance with its

terms, to the prevention, investigation and prosecution of

corruption and to the freezing, seizure, confiscation and return of

the proceeds of offences established in accordance with the

convention. 114. Learned senior counsel/amicus curiae contended that

Chapter-II of United Nations Convention against Corruption

contemplates preventive measures and it is relevant to refer to

certain Articles of the said chapter. Article 5 deals with preventive

anti-corruption policies and Article-6 relates to preventive anti-

corruption body or bodies. Sub-clause (2) of Article 6 contemplates that each state party shall grant the body or bodies

referred to in paragraph 1 of this article the necessary

independence, in accordance with the fundamental principles of its

legal system, to enable the body or bodies to carry out its or their

functions effectively and free from any undue influence. Article - 125 7(1)(d) relates to promoting education and training programmes. Article 30 contemplates prosecution, adjudication and sanctions. Article 36 contemplates specialized authorities and it stipulates that

each State Party shall, in accordance with the fundamental

principles of its legal system, ensure the existence of a body or

bodies or persons specialized in combating corruption through law

enforcement. Such body or bodies or persons shall be granted the

necessary independence, in accordance with the fundamental

principles of the legal system of the state Party, to be able to carry

out their functions effectively and without any undue influence.

Such persons or staff of such body or bodies should have the

appropriate training and resources to carry out their task. 115. Learned senior counsel/amicus curiae would further

contend that the provisions of Article 253 of the Constitution of

India relates to legislation for giving effect to international

agreements. It contemplates that notwithstanding anything in the

foregoing provisions of this Chapter, Parliament has power to make

any law for the whole or any part of the territory of India for

implementing any treaty, agreement or convention with any other 126 country or countries or any decision made at any international

conference, association or other body. 116. Learned senior counsel would further contend that the

statement of objects and reasons of the KL Act depicts that the

institution of Lokayukta was set up for the purpose of improving the

standards of public administration, by looking into complaints

against administrative actions, including cases of corruption,

favoritism and official indiscipline in the administration machinery.

He brought to the notice of the Court the definition of 'public

servant' as defined under sub-section (12) of Section 2 of the KL

Act so also provisos (1) and (2) of Section 17 of the P.C. Act and

contends that there cannot be any dilution of powers. The learned

Senior Counsel would further contend that the investigation has

nothing to do with the administration. Once the notification for

investigation is issued under Section 17(c) of the PC Act, it

becomes statutory enforcement and the same cannot be withdrawn

by the executive orders of the State Government. He further

pointed out that the corruption can be investigated only by one

investigating agency and there should not be any influence. He 127 would further contend that the investigation should be fair and

proper on the part of the investigating officer, who is the backbone

of the Rule of Law. He further contended that investigation should

be independent without any bias, fear or favour. 117. Learned senior counsel/amicus curiae would further

contend that the allegation with regard to corruption can be

investigated only by one authority under the provisions of PC Act and not two authorities viz., Lokayukta as well as ACB. The

creation of ACB parallel to the institution of Lokayukta is bad in law.

He would further contend that the Government Order dated

14.3.2016 issued under the provisions of Article 162 of the

Constitution of India clearly depicts that at every step there will be

political influence on the officer concerned which is impermissible.

ACB should work under the provisions of the KL Act in view of the

dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of

Rangaswamaiah19 stated supra. The provisions of Section 21 of

the General Clauses Act is not applicable as contended by the 19 Supra at Footnote No.1 128 learned Advocate General, in view of Vineet Narain20 case.

Therefore, learned senior counsel/amicus curiae sought to quash

the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 constituting ACB and allow

the writ petitions. 118. In support of his contentions, learned senior

counsel/amicus curiae relied upon the following judgments: 38 it is stated that the meaning of the word
 "superintendence" in Section 4(1) of the Delhi
 Special Police Act, 1946 determines the scope of
 the authority of the Central Government in this
 context. 2. Justice Chandrashekaraiah (Retired) vs. Janekere
 C.Krishna & others reported in (2013)3 SCC 117
 (relevant paragraphs - 19, 107, 108, 112, 124). 3. K.T.M.S. MOHD -VS- UNION OF INDIA reported in
 (1992)3 SCC 178 (paragraph-23). 20 (1998)1 SCC 226 129 4. M.C. Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) -vs- Union of
 India and others reported in (2007)1 SCC 110
 (paras 24, 26 and 27) 5. Subramanian Swamy -vs- Director, Central
 Bureau of Investigation and another reported in
 (2014)8 SCC 682 (constitution Bench) (paras 54,
 57, 59, 64(44), 70, 71 and 72). 6. Rakesh Kumar Paul -vs- State of Assam reported
 in (2017) 15 SCC 67 (paragraph-26); 7. Prakash Singh & Others -vs- Union Of India And
 Others reported in (2006)8 SCC 1 (paragraphs-
 13, 21 to 25 and 32) 8. T.P. Senkumar, IPS -vs- Union of India and
 Others reported in (2017) 6 SCC 801 (paragraph 70); 9. R. Sarala -vs- T.S. Velu and Others reported in
 (2000) 4 SCC 459 (paragraphs-11 to 15,
 particularly paragraph-18) 10. Mithilesh Kumar Singh -vs- State of Rajasthan
 and Others reported in (2015)9 SCC 795
 (paragraph-6) 130 11. Northern India Caterers (P) Ltd. v. State of
 Punjab , reported in AIR 1967 SC 1581
 (paragraph-11). VIII. Arguments advanced by Sri Basavaraju .S, learned
senior counsel for Sri Gowtham A.R, learned counsel for the
 petitioner/s in Writ Petition No.23622/2016 119. Sri Basavaraju, learned Senior Counsel along with Sri

Gowtham A.R., learned counsel for the petitioner in W.P.

No.23622/2016 contended that the present writ petition is filed in

public interest challenging the Government Order dated 14.03.2016

at Annexure-A as well as subsequent notifications at Annexures-B,

C, D, E, all dated 19.3.2016. Learned senior counsel contended

that the Government Order dated 14.03.2016 is contrary to the

provisions of Articles 14 , 19 , 21 and 300 of the Constitution of

India. He further contended that every institution should maintain

institutional responsibility and integrity and any attempt to dilute

the same is undemocratic and against the basic structure of the

Constitution, which is impermissible. He contended that the

Government Order dated 14.03.2016 suffers from legal malafides

since it protects certain persons and has not taken into 131 consideration the definition of 'public servant' as contemplated

under Section 2(12) and 7 of the KL Act. 120. In support of his contentions, learned Senior Counsel

relied upon the following judgments: 121. Sri D.L.Jagadish, learned Senior Counsel for

Ms.Rakshitha D.J., learned counsel for the petitioner contended

that the impugned Government Order dated 14.03.2016 passed by

the State Government cannot be sustained as the same is contrary

to the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sri C. 132 Rangaswamaiah21 (paragraphs-29 and 30). He further contended

that by virtue of the Government Order dated 14.03.2016,

independence of Lokayukta and its effective functioning as a matter

of utmost importance has been removed/diluted and people's faith

in the working of public servants is shaken. He further contended

that the dictums/decisions of Lokayukta or Upa-Lokayukta should

not become mere paper directions. Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta

must be armed with proper tooth and claws so that the efforts put

in by them are not wasted and their reports are not shelved by the

disciplinary authorities concerned. 122. Learned senior counsel further contended that the

Government Order dated 14.03.2016 is contrary to the provisions

of Section 15(1) and (2) of the KL Act. He further contended that

the 'public servant' as defined under the provisions of Section 2(12)

of the KL Act includes the Hon'ble Chief Minister. But the impugned

Government Order dated 14.03.2016 indirectly excludes some of

the authorities mentioned in Section 2(12) of the KL Act including

the Hon'ble Chief Minister. 21 Supra at Footnote No.1 133 123. In support of his contentions, learned Senior Counsel

relied upon the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Chandrashekaraiah v. Janekere C. Krishna22 (paragraphs 20,

21 and 36). X. Arguments advanced by Sri C.V. Sudhindra, learned
 counsel for the petitioners in W.P.No.28341/2017 and W.P.No.18042/2019 124. These writ petitions are filed by the individual

petitioners in their personal interest challenging the Government

Order dated 14/03/2016 constituting ACB under Article 162 of

Constitution of India so also the subsequent supporting notifications

dated 19.3.2016, 30.03.2016 and 21.04.2016 issued by

respondent No.1. 125. Sri C.V. Sudhindra, learned counsel for the petitioners

contended that Section 17 of the PC Act contemplates the persons

authorized to investigate the cases under the PC Act and first

proviso to the said section envisages that if a police officer not 22 (2013)3 SCC 117 134 below the rank of an Inspector of Police is authorised by the State

Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also

investigate any such offence without the order of a Metropolitan

Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or

make arrest therefor without a warrant. The second proviso to the

said section provides further that an offence referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1)] of section 13 shall not be investigated

without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a

Superintendent of Police. He further contended that the said

provisions contemplate to investigate - (a) trap cases (b) disproportionate assets cases, as contemplated

 under Sections 7 and 13(a)(b)(c)(d)(e) of the PC

 Act. 126. Learned counsel further contended that by the

impugned Government Order dated 14.03.2016, the ACB is

constituted with the following posts. 127. Learned counsel also contended that in order to

supervise the Vigilance system in the State, a Vigilance Advisory

Board has been created comprising of the following persons: 128. Learned counsel further contended that the Vigilance

Advisory Board will meet atleast once in three months, to review

the operations of the Vigilance Cells in the Government and to

review the progress of the ACB and the cases pending before it. In

case the Vigilance Advisory Board decides to refer the investigation

to be conducted by an outside agency/ogranization, such matter

after approval of the Chief Minister may be handed over to the

Criminal Investigation Department (C.I.D.). Therefore, he

contended that one cannot expect the Vigilance Advisory Board

functions independently, since even to refer the investigation to

C.I.D., approval of the Chief Minister must be obtained. 129. Learned counsel also contended that Section 2(16) of

the Karnataka Police Act contemplates that, 'Police Officer' means

any member of the police force appointed or deemed to be

appointed under the said Act and includes a special or an additional

police officer appointed under Section 19 or 20. He further

contended that Section 2(22) of the Karnataka Police Act

contemplates that 'Superior Police' means members of the Police

Force above the rank of Inspector. He further contended that, the 137 provisions of Section 6 of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963,

contemplates that, for the direction, control and supervision of the

Police service, the Government shall appoint a Director General and

Inspector General of Police, who shall subject to the control of the

government, exercise such powers and perform such functions and

duties and shall have such responsibilities and such authority as

may be provided by or under the said Act. Sub Section (2) of

Section (6) of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 , contemplates that

the Director General and Inspector General of Police shall be

selected by the State Government from amongst officers of the

Indian Police Service in the rank of Director General of Police who

have been empanelled for promotion to that rank on the basis of

their length of service, very good history of service, professional

knowledge and ability to lead Police Force in the State. Therefore,

he contended that the impugned Government Order dated

14.03.2016 is in utter violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the

Constitution of India and the provisions of Section 6(1) and (2) of

the Karnataka Police Act , thereby the very intention and enactment

of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 is frustrated. Therefore, he

sought to allow the writ petition. XI. Arguments advanced by Sri Sharath S. Gowda, learned
counsel for the petitioner/s in Writ Petition No.16697/2017 130. The petitioner filed this writ petition in his personal

interest challenging the validity of the Government Order dated

14.3.2016 constituting the ACB and the complaint dated 6.3.2017

and the FIR registered thereon dated 6.3.2017. 131. Sri Sharath S Goiwda, learned counsel for the petitioner

while adopting the arguments of Sri M.S. Bhagwath, learned senior

counsel and Sri V. Lakshminarayana, learned senior

counsel/amicus curiae contended that the definition of 'public

servant' as contemplated under the provisions of Section 2(12) of

the KL Act includes the Chief Minister; a Minister; a Member of the

State Legislature, a Government servant etc., By virtue of the

impugned Government Order constituting ACB, ultimately the

investigation or report has to be approved by the Chief Minister

and thereby, he cannot decide his own case. Therefore, he sought

to allow the writ petition by quashing the Government order dated

14.3.2016 etc., 139 XII. Arguments advanced by Sri Ashok Haranahalli, learned
 senior counsel for Karnataka Lokayukta 132. Sri Ashok Haranahalli, learned senior counsel along with

Sri B.S.Prasad and Sri Venkatesh S.Arabatti, learned counsel for

Lakayukta contended that KL Act enacted for the purpose of

improving the standards of public administration, by looking into

complaints against administrative actions, including cases of

corruption, favouritism and official indiscipline in administrative

machinery. Where, after investigation into the complaint, the

Lokayukta considers that the allegation against a public servant is

prima facie true and makes a declaration and in case, the

declaration is accepted by the Competent Authority, the public

servant concerned, if he is a Chief Minister or any other Minister or

Member of State Legislature shall resign his office and if he is any

other non-official shall be deemed to have vacated his office, and, if

an official, shall be deemed to have been kept under suspension,

with effect from the date of the acceptance of the declaration.

Learned senior counsel further contended that if, after

investigation, the Lokayukta is satisfied that the public servant has

committed any criminal offence, he may initiate prosecution without 140 reference to any other authority. Any prior sanction required under

any law for such prosecution shall be deemed to have been

granted. The Vigilance Commission is abolished, but all inquiries

and investigations and other disciplinary proceedings pending

before the Vigilance Commission got transferred to the Lokayukta.

The Bill became an Act with some modifications as the Karnataka

Lokayukta Act, 1984 . Thereby, he contended that the impugned

Executive Order passed by the State Government under the

provisions of Article 162 of the Constitution of India dated

14/03/2016 is contrary to the very object of the KL Act. 133. Learned senior counsel further refers to the provisions

of Section 14 of the KL Act which states about the initiation of

prosecution. If after investigation into any complaint the Lokayukta

or an Upa Lokayukta is satisfied that the public servant has

committed any criminal offence and should be prosecuted in a

Court of law for such offence, then, he may pass an order to that

effect and initiate prosecution of the public servant concerned and if

prior sanction of any authority is required for such prosecution,

then, notwithstanding anything contained in any law, such sanction 141 shall be deemed to have been granted by the appropriate authority

on the date of such order or any other agency. 134. Learned senior counsel would further contend that Section 15(3) Lokayukta Act, 1984 contemplates that without

prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1) the Lokayukta or an

Upalokayukta may for the purpose of conducting investigations

under this Act utilise the services of any officer or investigating

agency of the State Government; or any officer or investigating

agency of the Central Government with the prior concurrence of the

State Government. He specifically pointed out that Section 15(4) of

the KL Act contemplates that the officers and other employees

referred to in sub-section (1) shall be under the administrative and

disciplinary control of the Lokayukta. He further contended that

'United Nations Convention against Corruption' is committed to

pursue the policy of zero tolerance and the India has ratified it and

this convention imposed number of obligations, some mandatory,

some recommendatory, some optional etc. 135. Learned senior counsel would further refer to the

provisions of Sections 11 and 12 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 142 2013 with regard to enquiry wing and prosecution wing. He would

further refer to the provisions Section 23 of the said Act which deals

with power of Lokpal to grant sanction for initiating prosecution.

Sub-section (2) of Section 23 contemplates that no prosecution

under sub-section (1) shall be initiated against any public servant

accused of any offence alleged to have been committed by him

while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty,

and no court shall take cognizance of such offence except with the

previous sanction of the Lokpal. He also refers to the provisions of Section 24 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, which deals with

action on investigation against public servant being Prime Minister,

Ministers or Members of Parliament and the said section

contemplates that where, after the conclusion of the investigation,

the findings of the Lokpal disclose the commission of an offence

under the PC Act by a public servant referred to in clause (a) or

clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 14 , the Lokpal

may file a case in the Special Court and shall send a copy of the

report together with its findings to the competent authority. He

also refers to the provisions of Section 63 of the Lokpal and

Lokayuktas Act, which relates to establishment of Lokayukta. The 143 said section contemplates that every State shall establish a body to

be known as the Lokayukta for the State, if not so established,

constituted or appointed, by a law made by the State Legislature, to

deal with complaints relating to corruption against certain public

functionaries, within a period of one year from the date of

commencement of the said Act. 136. Finally, learned senior counsel contended that the

impugned Executive Order passed by the State is in utter violation

of the provisions of Sections 11 , 12 , 15 , 23 and 24 of the Lokpal

and Lokayuktas Act. He would further contend that the powers of

Lokayukta should be on par with the powers of Lokpal. Therefore,

the Executive Order passed by the State Government under the

provisions of Article 162 of the Constitution of India is contrary and

bad in law. In support of the said contention, he relied upon the

dictum of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ashwini Kumar

Upadhyay vs. Union of India & others23 (paragraph-6). 23 [W.P.(Civil).No. 684/2016 - SLP(C)No.22841/2016 dated 19/04/2018] 144 137. Learned senior counsel further contended that the Lokpal Act enacted under Article 223 of the Constitution of India.

The powers to prosecute was given by the Notification dated

06/02/1991 under the provisions of Section 17(c) of the PC Act and

the same was withdrawn on 19/03/2016. 138. Learned senior counsel mainly drawn the attention of

the Court to paragraph No.25 of the judgment in Rangaswamaiah 24 cited supra, wherein it is stated that " if the State Government

wants to entrust such extra work to the officers on deputation with

the Lokayukta, if can certainly inform the Lokayukta of its desire to

do so. If the Lokayukta agrees to such entrustment, there will be no

problem. But if for good reasons the Lokayukta thinks that such

entrustment of work by the State Government is likely to affect its

functioning or is likely to affect its independence, it can certainly

inform the State Government accordingly. In case the State

Government does not accept the view point of the Lokayukta, then

it will be open to the Lokayukta-having regard to the need to

preserve its independence and effective functioning to take action 24 Supra at Footnote No.1 145 under section 15(4) (read with section 15(2) ) and direct that these

officers on deputation in its police wing will not take up any such

work entrusted to them by the State Government. Of course, it is

expected that the State Government and the Lok Ayukta will avoid

any such unpleasant situations but will act reasonably in their

respective spheres." 139. Learned senior counsel also drawn the attention of the

Court to paragraph 28 of the judgment in Rangaswamaiah25 cited

supra, where it is stated that "if instead of deputation of police

officers from the Government, any other solution can be found, that

is a matter to be decided amicably between the State Government

and the Lok Ayukta, - keeping in view the independence of the Lok

Ayukta and its effective functioning as matters of utmost

importance." 140. Learned senior counsel would further contend that with

regard to the powers of the Lokayukta, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the case of Institution of A.P. Lokayukta/Upa-Lokayukta , 25 Supra at Footnote No.1 146 A.P. & others .vs. T.Rama Subba Reddy and another26 at

paragraph No.17 has held as under: The question may arise in a properly-instituted public
interest litigation as to whether the provision of Section
12(3) of the Act implies a power coupled with duty
which can be enforced by a writ of mandamus by the
High Court or by writ of any other competent court but
apart from such litigations and uncertainty underlying
the results thereof, it would be more appropriate for the
legislature itself to make a clear provision for due
compliance with the report of Lokayukta or Upa-
Lokayukta so that the public confidence in the working 148 of the system does not get eroded and these
 institutions can effectively justify their creation under
 the statute." 141. Learned senior counsel also relied upon the dictum of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Dr. Subramanian

Swamy vs. Director, Central Bureau of Investigation &

another27 wherein at paragraphs 58, 59, 67, 71, 74 it is held as

under: 142. In support of his contentions, learned senior counsel

further relied upon the following judgments: 152 XIII. Arguments advanced by Sri Prabhuling K. Navadgi,
 learned Advocate General for the respondent/State 143. Sri Prabhuling K.Navadgi, learned Advocate General

while justifying the impugned Government Order dated 14.3.2016

passed by the State Government constituting ACB, has contended

that in order to decide the controversy raised between the parties,

following issued would arise for consideration: " I) Whether the impugned notification
 constituting ACB is in excess of the power conferred 28 (2006)8 SCC 1 29 Supra Footnote No.1 30 2002(8) SCC 1 153 upon the Government under Article 162 of the
Constitution of India? a) Whether the constitution of ACB by way of
 executive instructions is impermissible- since
 according to the petitioners there are two
 enactments operating in the same field viz.. Karnataka Police Act, 1963 and Karnataka
 Lokayukta Act, 1984 . b) The parameters and general principles
 under Article 162 of the Constitution of India?

 II] Whether the constitution of ACB violates the
provisions of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984 ? under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 -
 since it is an occupied field by the Karnataka
 Lokayukta Act, 1984 ? b) Whether the present impugned notification
 impinges upon the autonomy, independence
 and functioning of the Lokayukta under the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984 ? III] Whether the impugned notification is in
 conflict with the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 ? IV] Whether the impugned notification, which in
 turn constitutes vigilance advisory board or which
 provides for obtaining prior approval of the competent
 authority, is arbitrary, unguided and undermines the
 independence of ACB? V] Tabulation of number of cases filed by the ACB after

 its constitution." 144. Learned Advocate General further contended that under Article 162 of the Constitution of India, the Executive can make any

order under List - II or List III to the 7th Schedule of the

Constitution of India. He draws the attention of the Court to the

three enactments viz., Karnataka Police Act, 1963 , KL Act and PC

Act. 145. Learned Advocate General further contended that as per

the provisions of Section 5 of the Karnataka Police Act, the Police

Force shall consist of such number in the several ranks and have

such organisation and such powers, functions and duties as the 155 Government may by general or special order determine, but all are

working under the Police Act . ACB is created under Article 162 of

the Constitution of India for the purpose of investigating the

offences under the provisions of the PC Act . 146. Learned Advocate General further contended that the

Executive Order passed by the State Government dated 14.3.2016

does not conflict any of the provisions either under the KL Act or

the Police Act . In terms of the Executive order dated 14.3.2016,

the ACB is working under the provisions of the PC Act as a

separate Wing or authority and the same is nothing to do with the

provisions of the KL Act. The powers and functions of the

Lokayukta and ACB are entirely different. He further contended

that under the provisions of Section 2(c) of PC Act, 'public servant'

means persons falling under any of the 12 sub-clauses of the said

section. In view of the provisions of Sections 7 , 7A , 8 , 9 , 10 , 13 , 17 (a) and (b) and 23 of the P.C. Act , the ACB has to register,

investigate and proceed in accordance with law. The investigation

can be done by the ACB as contemplated under the provisions of

the P.C. Act . He would further contend that the provisions of 156 Sections 17A and 19 of the P.C. Act clearly depict that Section 3 of

the P.C. Act is a complete code in itself. The provisions of Section

2(s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure contemplates the in-charge

Police Station. Under the provisions of Sections 9, 12, 13, 14 of the

KL Act, ACB has no role and it is only the officers working in

Lokayukta can investigate. He further contended that as on today,

the Lokayukta has 747 Police Officers to investigate and work under

the KL Act and on the other hand only 447 Police Officers are

working in ACB. 147. Learned Advocate General further pointed out that with

regard to Clause-5 of the Government Order dated 14.3.2016, the

Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka has filed the affidavit

before this Court on 28.3.2021 stating that a notification shall be

issued by the State Government with the following modifications to

the Government Order dated 14.3.2016: 148. Though an affidavit filed, learned Advocate General

fairly submits that no such modification notification has been issued

as on today. 149. Learned Advocate General further contended that the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah31

at paragraph-6 observed that even after deputation, there could be

a "dual" role on the part of the Police Officers in their functions,

namely, functions under the Lokayukta and functions in discharge

of the duties entrusted to them by the State of Karnataka, under

the PC Act . Further, the notification issued under Section 17 of the

PC Act designating all Inspectors on deputation in the Lokayukta as

officers competent for purposes of Section 17 of the PC Act and the

notification issued under Section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal

procedure designating all offices of the Lokayukta in the State as

Police stations, indicated that these Police officers though on

deputation, were entrusted with these powers of investigation, by

virtue of statutory powers. 31 Supra at Footnote No.1 159 150. Learned Advocate General further contended that by

earlier notifications, in exercise of the powers under the provisions

of Section 17 of the PC Act and Section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, extra power was assigned to Lokayukta and after came

to know that there is extra burden, the same has been withdrawn.

Once the State has power to grant, it has power to withdraw also,

in view of the provisions of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. 151. Learned Advocate General contended that the

petitioners are under wrong notion that by creating ACB, the

powers entrusted to Lokayukta has been withdrawn. The powers of

the Lokayukta under the provisions of KL Act have not been

disturbed. The ACB is working under the provisions of the PC Act as a separate Wing or authority and the same is nothing to do with

the institution of Lokayukta, which is working under the provisions

of the KL Act and no powers of Lokayukta have been diluted as

contended by the learned counsel for the petitioners. Learned

Advocate General contended that the provisions of KL Act and the

provisions of PC Act are distinct. 152. Learned Advocate General also contended that the ACB

is a separate wing under the Karnataka Police Act to discharge the

work assigned to it. The executive Government Order dated

14.03.2016 is a policy of the State Government and cannot be

interfered with by this Court while exercising writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The provisions of Section 4 of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 contemplates that, the

superintendence of the Police Force throughout the State vests in

and is exercisable by the Government and any control, direction

or supervision exercisable by any officer over any member of

the Police Force shall be exercisable subject to such

superintendence(Government). 153. Learned Advocate General further contended that Entry-

2 of List II to the 7th Schedule of the Constitution of India

contemplates Police (including railway and village police) subject to

the provisions of entry 2A of List I. It is brought to the notice of

the Court that there are 16 States in the country where both ACB

and Lokayuktha are in existence. Provisions of PC Act 1988- 154. Learned Advocate General further contended that the

State Government issued the Government Order dated 14.3.2016

constituting ACB, in exercise of powers under Article 162 of the

Constitution of India and such policy decision cannot be interfered

by this Court. He would further contend that there are two types

of writ petitions before this Court. One filed in the public interest

and the other in personal interest and the petitioners have not

made out any case to interfere with the executive order passed by

the State Government and sought to dismiss the writ petitions. 155. In support of his contentions, learned Advocate General

relied upon the following judgments: XIV. Points for determination 156. In view of the aforesaid rival contentions urged by the

learned counsel for the parties, the points that would arise for our

consideration in these writ petitions are: 157. We have given our anxious consideration to the

arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and

perused all the papers including the original records carefully. XV. Consideration 158. Before proceeding to the merits of the case, it is

relevant to refer to the statement of objects and reasons of the 165 Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984 and certain important sections of

the said Act. 159. The Legislature - State Government on the basis of the

recommendations of the Administrative Reforms Commission

enacted the KL Act w.e.f 15th January 1986 for the purpose of

improving the standards of public administration, by looking into

complaints against administrative actions, including cases of

corruption, favouritism and official indiscipline in the administration

machinery and abolished the Vigilance Commission, but all

inquiries, investigations and other disciplinary proceedings pending

before the Vigilance Commission transferred to Lokayukta. 160. As per sub-section (2) of Section 2 of the KL Act,

'Allegation' in relation to a public servant means any affirmation

that such public servant - (a) has abused his position as such public
 servant to obtain any gain or favour to
 himself or to any other person or to
 cause undue harm or hardship to any
 other person; 166 (b) was actuated in the discharge of his
 functions as such public servant by
 personal interest or improper or corrupt
 motives; (c) is guilty of corruption, favoritism,
 nepotism, or lack of integrity in his
 capacity as such public servant; or (d) has failed to act in accordance with the
 norms of integrity and conduct which
 ought to be followed by public servants
 of the class to which he belongs; 161. As per sub-section (5) of Section 2 of the KL Act,

'corruption' includes anything made punishable under Chapter IX of

the Indian Penal Code or under the PC Act . 162. Sub-section (10) of Section 2 of the KL Act defines

"Maladministration", which means action taken or purporting to

have been taken in the exercise of administrative functions in any

case where,-- oppressive or improperly discriminatory; 163. As per sub-section (12) of Section 2 of the KL Act,

'public servant' means a person who is or was at any time - (a) the Chief Minister; (b) a Minister; (c) a member of the State Legislature; (d) a Government Servant; (e) the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman (by whatever
 name called) or a member of a local authority in
 the State of Karnataka or a statutory body or
 corporation established by or under any law of the
 State Legislature, including a co-operative
 society, or a Government Company within the
 meaning of Section 617 of the Companies Act,
 1956 and such other corporations or boards as
 the State government may, having regard to its 168 financial interest in such corporations or boards,
 by notification, from time to time, specify; (f) member of a Committee or Board, statutory or
 non-statutory, constituted by the Government;
 and (g) a person in the service or pay of,-- (i) a local authority in the State of Karnataka; (ii) a statutory body or a corporation (not being
 a local authority) established by or under a
 State or Central Act, owned or controlled by
 the State Government and any other board
 or corporation as the State Government
 may having regard to its financial interest
 therein, by notification from time to time,
 specify; (iii) a company registered under the Companies
 Act, 1956 , in which not less than fifty one
 per cent of the paid up share capital is held
 by the State Government, or any company
 which is a subsidiary of such company; Societies Registration Act, 1960 , which is 169 subject to the control of the State
 Government and which is notified in this
 behalf in the official Gazette; Society" means a co-operative society registered
 or deemed to have been registered under the Karnataka Co-operative Societies Act, 1959 , and
 "university" means a university established or
 deemed to be established by or under any law of
 the State Legislature. 164. As per Sub-section (13) of Section 2 of the KL Act,

"Secretary" means the Chief Secretary, an Additional Chief

Secretary, a Principal Secretary, a Secretary, or a Secretary-II to

the Government of Karnataka and includes a Special Secretary, an

Additional Secretary and a Joint Secretary. 165. The provisions of Section 3 of the KL Act contemplates

appointment of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta, which reads as

under: 166. A careful reading of the above provisions make it clear

that a person to be appointed as the Lokayukta shall be a person

who has held the office of a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of

the Chief Justice of a High Court or a person who has held the office

of a Judge of a High Court for not less than ten years and shall be

appointed on the advice tendered by the Chief Minister in

consultation with the - a) Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka, 172 b) the Chairman, Karnataka Legislative Council, c) the Speaker, Karnataka Legislative Assembly, d) the Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka
 Legislative Council and e) the Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka
 Legislative Assembly. 167. The above provisions also make it clear that a person to

be appointed as an Upa-Lokayukta shall be a person who has held

the office of a judge of a High Court for not less than five years

and shall be appointed on the advice tendered by the Chief Minister

in consultation with - i) the Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka, ii) the Chairman, Karnataka Legislative Council, iii) the Speaker, Karnataka Legislative Assembly, iv) the Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka

 Legislative Council; and v) the Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka

 Legislative Assembly. 168. In view of the above, it is clear that while

appointment of either Lokayukta or Upa-Lokayukta, the procedure

as contemplated under the provisions of Sections 3(2)(a) and

3(2)(b) of the KL Act has been followed meticulously from the date

of enactment of the KL Act i.e. from 15.1.1986 till today. 169. The provisions of Section 4 of the KL Act contemplates

that the Lokayukta or Upalokayukta shall not be a Member of the

Parliament or be a Member of the Legislature of any State and shall

not hold any office of trust or profit (other than his office as

Lokayukta or Upalokayukta) or be connected with any political party

or carry on any business or practice any profession and accordingly,

before he enters upon his office, a person appointed as the

Lokayukta or an Upalokayukta shall,-- (a) if he is a Member of the Parliament or of the
 Legislature of any State, resign such
 membership; or (b) if he holds any office of trust or profit,
 resign from such office; or (c) if he is connected with any political party,
 sever his connection with it; or 174 (d) if he is carrying on any business, sever his
 connection (short of divesting himself of
 ownership) with the conduct and
 management of such business; or (e) if he is practising any profession, suspend
 practice of such profession. 170. Sub-section (1) of Section - 5 of the KL Act,

contemplates that a person appointed as the Lokayukta or

Upaloakayukta shall hold office for a term of five years from the

date on which he enters upon his office, provided that - (a) the Lokayukta or an Upalokayukta may, by
 writing under his hand addressed to the
 Governor, resign his office; (b) the Lokayukta or an Upalokayukta may be
 removed from office in the manner provided
 in Section 6 . 171. Sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the KL Act contemplates

that on ceasing to hold office, the Lokayukta or an Upalokayukta

shall be ineligible for further employment to any office of profit

under the Government of Karnataka or in any authority, 175 corporation, company, society or university referred to in item (g)

of clause (12) of Section 2 of the KL Act. 172. The provisions of Section 9 of the KL Act deals with

provisions relating to complaints and investigations. Section 10 of

the KL Act contemplates issue of search warrant; Section 12 of the

KL Act contemplates reports of Lokayukta; Section 14 of the KL Act

contemplates initiation of prosecution; and Section 15 of the KL Act

relates to the staff of Lokayukta. Sub-section (3) of Section 15 of

the KL Act contemplates that without prejudice to the provisions of

sub-section (1), the Lokayukta or an Upa-Lokayukta may for the

purpose of conducting investigations under this Act utilise the

services of,-- (a) any officer or investigating agency of the State
 Government; or

 (aa) any officer or investigating agency of the
 Central Government with the prior concurrence of
 the Central Government and State Government; (b) any person or any other agency. 173. By careful perusal of the provisions of the KL Act stated

supra and other provisions, it clearly depict that the scheme

ensures preservation of the right, interest and dignity of the

Lokayukta or Upalokayukta and is commensurate with the dignity of

all the institutions and functionaries involved in the process. It also

excludes the needless meddling in the process by busy bodies

confining the participation in it, to the Members of the Legislative

Assembly or Council, Speaker/Chairman of the Legislature and the

Chief Justice to the High Court of Karnataka, the highest judicial

functionary in the State apart from the Lokayukta. If the

allegations are permitted to be made only in the prescribed

manner, justify an inquiry into the conduct of the Upalokayukta.

As the Office in question is a public office as public is vitally

interested, the process prescribed in the Act is to be complied with

expeditiously, which is also both in public interest as well as in the

interest of the incumbent of the office. 174. During the year 2011, the Lokayukta while exercising

powers under the provisions of KL Act and PC Act has made the

Hon'ble Chief Minister and the Hon'ble Minister, who were in power 177 at the relevant point of time to resign and has send them to prison

by creating history in the State of Karnataka and has become a

model to the entire country. It is also not in dispute that at one

point of time, since the son of the Lokayukta was involved in

corruption charges, the Lokayukta was made to resign and that has

become possible, in view of the provisions of the KL Act and PC

Act. Such was the independence of the Lokayukta and its effective

functioning in the matters of utmost importance from the date of

the inception of the Lokayukta in the year 1986 till 14.3.2016, the

date of passing the impugned executive order under Article 162 of

the Constitution of India i.e., for more than three decades. 175. When the Karnataka Lokayukta Act was assented by the

Hon'ble president of India, that would prevail and the field occupied

cannot be eroded and the Government cannot trench upon the

occupied field. It is nothing, but transgression by an executive

administrative order to usurp the powers of Lokayukta. The very

Constitution of ACB by the Government is to shield the Corrupt

politicians, Ministers, and the officers from the watchful eyes of the

Lokayukta and that Government is weakening the institution of 178 Lokayukta to protect these persons from prosecution, inter alia

under the provisions of the P.C. Act . 176. As already stated supra, the KL Act was enacted for the

purpose of improving the standards of public administration, by

looking into complaints against administrative actions, including

cases of corruption, favouritism and official indiscipline in

administration machinery. In order to ensure effective enforcement

of the PC Act , in exercise of the powers conferred by the first

proviso to Section 17 of the PC Act, the State Government issued

the notification dated 6.2.1991 authorizing all the Inspectors of

Police, Office of the Karnataka Lokayukta for the purpose of the

investigation. 177. The provisions of Section 17 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act reads as under: Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), no police officer
 below the rank,-- (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police
 Establishment, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the metropolitan areas of Bombay,
 Calcutta, Madras and Ahmedabad and in any
 other metropolitan area notified as such under
 sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), of an
 Assistant Commissioner of Police; (c) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of
 Police or a police officer of equivalent rank,

shall investigate any offence punishable under this Act
without the order of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or
make any arrest therefor without a warrant: 178. It is also not in dispute that the state Government vide

notifications dated 8.5.2002 and 5.12.2002 declared the offices of

the Police Inspectors of Karnataka Lokayukta as Police Stations

under the provisions of Clause (s) of Section 2 of the Code of

Criminal procedure. 179. Sub-Clause (s) of Section -2 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure reads as under: 180. When things stood thus, the Director General and

Inspector General of Police ('DG & IG' for short) by a letter dated

3.2.2016 addressed to the State Government, has proposed the

creation of an Anti Corruption Bureau in the State, due to the

necessity of modifications required so as to enforce PC Act , keeping

in perspective the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the 181 case of C. Rangaswamaiah36. The DG & IG has informed that the

duties of the officers of the Lokayukta Police Wing can be classified

into two categories viz., 1) As per Section 15(1) KL Act, the Police Wing is to

 primarily assist the Lokayukta in enforcing the KL Act. 2) The Government of Karnataka, through its many orders,

 has declared the offices of the Police Inspectors of

 Lokayukta as Police Stations; the Police officers can

 investigate the cases registered under the PC Act .

 Since such cases are out of jurisdiction of Lokayukta,

 the Government has issued several orders regarding the

 same. Thereby, the State Government proceeded to pass the impugned

executive order dated 14.03.2016 under the provisions of Article

162 of the Constitution of India. 181. A careful perusal of the impugned Government Order

dated 14.3.2016 clearly depicts that the State Government mainly 36 Supra at Footnote No.1 182 based on the recommendations of the DG & IG letter dated

3.2.2016, has constituted ACB on the following grounds: d) The DG & IG has proposed to limit the current
 Police wing to assist only in the effective
 enforcement of the KL Act. e) The DG & IG requested to form ACB and to provide
 them with the powers to investigate in an
 independent manner so as to independently
 investigate the cases referred to by the Head of
 the Police and the Government. f) The independent nature of power of the Police
 Wing of the KL Act as held by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah37. g) In view of the interim order dated 8.2.2016 made

 in Criminal Petition No.5378/2014 and connected

 maters h) To reduce the burden of the Lokayukta Police. 182. On meticulous perusal of the aforesaid reasons, it is not

forthcoming as to why the DG & IG recommended to withdraw the

notifications dated 6.2.1991 8.5.2002 and 5.12.2002 that had given

the Lokayukta Police, the powers to investigate under the

provisions of PC Act and had declared the offices of Police

Inspectors of Lokayukta as Police Stations under the provisions of Section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is also stated in

the impugned Government Order that this Court in Criminal Petition

No.5378/2014 and connected matters has further directed the

State Government to establish vigilance cells in the same lines as

those established by the Central Government. The impugned

Government Order merely depicts that the Government has realized 37 Supra at Foot Note No.1 184 the necessity of a strong and effective vigilance system, in addition

to Karnataka Lokayukta to improve the quality of administration

and created an ACB, thereby indirectly diluted the independent

effective functioning of the Karnataka Lokayukta, which is a matter

of utmost importance. "If really the State Government wanted to

maintain the independence of the Lokayukta", it could have

strengthened the hands of Lokayukta by giving more independent

power or allowed the ACB to work under the Lokayukta to eradicate

the corruption, favouritism and official indiscipline in administrative

machinery in the entire state, in the interest of Government and in

the interest of general public at large. Though the KL Act

prescribes to take action against any public servant as

contemplated under Section 2(12) of the KL Act, it is not

forthcoming in the present impugned executive order as to who is

the authority to take action, in case DG & IG involved in corruption,

favouritism and official indiscipline in administration machinery. So

also in case the Hon'ble Chief Minister, a Minister, a Member of the

State Legislature are involved or in case 'Secretary' i.e., Chief

Secretary, an Addl. Chief Secretary etc., are involved, there is no 185 power or authority in the impugned executive order to take action

against such persons. 183. On careful perusal of the impugned executive

Government Order, it also clearly depicts that the "Hon'ble Chief

Minister is the supreme" and absolutely there is no independent

application of mind by the State Government before passing the

impugned executive order and the same is based only on the

recommendation made by the DG & IG, thereby the executive order

passed by the State Government cannot be sustained. 184. The executive order passed by the State Government

constituting ACB is parallel to the institution of Karnataka

Lokayukta and absolutely no reasons are assigned except stating

that Government has realized the necessity of a strong and

effective vigilance system in addition to Lokayukta. It is not the

case of the State Government that the Karnataka Lokayukta Police

Wing, which is working under the control of the Lokayukta under

the provisions of Section 15(3) of the KL Act not effectively

implementing the provisions of the PC Act nor it is the case of the

Government that any general public lodged complaints against the 186 functions of the Lokayukta or its Police Wing. It is also not the

case of the State Government in the impugned executive order that

the Lokayukta or an Upa-Lokayukta expressed any inability to

discharge their functions under the provisions of PC Act or

expressed that it is an additional burden. In the absence of the

same, it is the State Government which has passed the impugned

executive order, in exercise of the powers under Article 162 of the

Constitution of India mainly based on the recommendation made by

the DG & IG, without independent application of mind. Thereby,

the impugned order erroneous and contrary to the provisions of

K.L. Act. 185. The State Government while passing the impugned

executive orders, has ignored the fact that Lokayukta and Upa-

Lokayukta are appointed under the provisions of Section 3 of the KL

Act. That is, their appointment is by a consultation process with

all the stake holders i.e, they are appointed on the advice tendered

by the Chief Minister in consultation with the - - Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka; - the Chairman, Karnataka Legislative Council; 187 - the Speaker, Karnataka Legislative Assembly; - the Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative
 Council; and - the Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative
 Assembly. 186. It is not in dispute that when the KL Act was enacted

in the year 1984, on the recommendation made by the

Administrative Reforms Commission for the purpose of improving

the standards of public administration, by looking into the

complaints against administrative actions, including the cases of

corruption, favouritsm and official indiscipline in administration

machinery, there was no necessity for the State Government to

constitute ACB parallel to the institution of Lokayukta, that too

when a person to be appointed as the Lokayukta shall be a person

who has held the office of a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of

the Chief Justice of a High Court or a person who has held the office

of a Judge of a High Court for not less than ten years and a person

to be appointed as an Upa-Lokayukta shall be a person who has

held the office of a Judge of a High Court for not less than five

years. 187. It is not the case of the State Government that ACB is a

powerful independent body headed by any former Supreme Court

Judge, in order to curb corruption, favouritism and official

indiscipline in administration machinery, in addition to Lokayukta.

If really the Government intends to curb corruption, favouritism and

official indiscipline in administration machinery, the ACB should

have been allowed to work under the control of Lokayukta as

contemplated under the provisions of Section 15(3) of the KL Act

instead of Hon'ble Chief Minister as stated in the executive order.

Therefore, there is more scope in the executive order for the

political influence and the Hon'ble Chief Minister in power can

misuse ACB to control his opponents within his party or the

opposite parties. The conditions of the executive Government Order

clearly depict that there is a possibility to favour the party in power

or the party men. 188. It is most unfortunate that even after lapse of 75 years

of Independence, no political party in the country is willing or dare

enough to allow independent authority like the Lokayukta to

discharge its duties in a transparent manner in the interest of the 189 general public at large. Very strangely, a separate Anti Corruption

Bureau is created with the following designations: 189. In order to supervise the Vigilance System in the State,

a Vigilance Advisory Board has been created consisting of -

1 Chief Secretary President of
 Board
2 Addl. Chief Secretary, Internal Member
 Administration
3 Principal Secretary, Department of Member
 Finance
3 Principal Secretary, DPAR Member
4 D.G. & I.G.P. (who recommended to Member
 constitute ACB for the Government)
5 Two eminent personalities experienced Member
 and experts in the field of Administration
 and Public issues. 6 Secretary, Vigilance Wing of DPAR Member
 Secretary 190 190. The ACB and the Vigilance Advisory Board are working

under the direct administrative control of the State Government

and they cannot act independently as the "Final authority is the

Hon'ble Chief Minister". In fact the executive order dated

14.3.2016 clearly depicts that in case the Vigilance Advisory Board

based on sufficient prima facie reasons, decides to refer the

investigation to be conducted by an outside agency/organization,

such matter after approval of the Chief Minister may be handed

over to the Criminal Investigation Department (C.I.D). Therefore,

one cannot expect the Vigilance Advisory Board functions

independently, since even to refer the investigation to be conducted

by an outside agency/organization like C.I.D., approval of the Chief

Minister must be obtained. 191. Further, the State Government while withdrawing the

statutory notifications dated 6.2.1991, 8.5.2002 and 5.12.2002 that

had given the Lokayukta Police the powers to investigate under the P.C. Act and had declared the offices of Police Inspectors of

Karnataka Lokayukta as Police Stations under the provisions of Section 2(s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, had not consulted 191 the Lokayukta. Without consultation of Lokayukta, statutory

notifications cannot be withdrawn by the executive order of the

State Government. Absolutely no independent reasons are assigned

by the State Government in the executive order to constitute ACB

parallel to the Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta, who are appointed

under the provisions of the KL Act. The executive order dated

14.3.2016 depicts that the State Government after examining the

recommendation made by the DG & IG, keeping in perspective the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of C.

Rangaswamaiah, has created the ACB and classified the duties of

the officers of the Karnataka Police Wing into two categories. The

same is an erroneous understanding of the dictum of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court. 192. In the case of C. Rangaswamaiah38, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court observed that "even after deputation, there could

be a "dual" role on the part of the police officers in their functions,

namely, functions under the Lokayukta and functions in discharge

of the duties entrusted to them by the State of Karnataka under the 38 Supra at Foot No.1 192 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 ". The Hon'ble Supreme Court

further observed that "though the Director General of Police newly

attached w.e.f 21.11.1992 to the Bureau of Investigation of the

Lokayukta by way of an administrative order of the Government

was to be in control and supervision of the police staff in the

Lokayukta and though the said post of Director General of Police

was not - by appropriate amendment of the recruitment rules of the

Lokayukta staff - included in the cadre of posts in the Police Wing of

the Lokayukta - still it had to be taken that the said Director

General of Police was under the administrative and disciplinary

control of the Lokayukta". The Hon'ble Supreme Court also

observed that "dual functions could be performed by these officers

in relation to two Acts, namely Prevention of Corruption Act and the

Lokayukta Act and such a situation of dual control could not be said

to be alien to criminal jurisprudence concerning investigation of

crimes. In other words, these officers who were of the requisite

rank as per Section 17 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988

could not be said to be incompetent to investigate into offences

assigned to them under that Act by the competent authority by

virtue of statutory powers under Section 17 thereof or to that 193 extent not excluded by the Lokayukta. The Division Bench,

therefore, held that the further investigation against the petitioners

could be continued through the Police Officers on deputation with

the Lokayukta". The Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed that

"the entrustment being under statutory powers of the State

traceable to Section 17 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988

the same cannot be said to be outside the jurisdiction of the State

Government. May be, if it is done without consulting the Lokayukta

and obtaining its consent, it can only be treated as an issue

between the State and the Lokayukta. Such entrustment of duties

has statutory backing, and obviously also the tacit approval of the

Lokayukta." The Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed that

"having regard to the need to preserve its independence and

effective functioning to take action under Section 15(4) read with Section 15(2) and direct that these officers on deputation in its

Police Wing will not take up any such work entrusted to them by the

State Government". The Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed

that "if instead of deputation of police officers from the

Government, any other solution can be found, that is a matter to be

decided amicably between the State Government and the 194 Lokayukta, keeping in view the independence of the Lokayukta and

its effective functioning as matters of utmost importance". 193. In view of the above, the judgment in the case of C.

Rangaswamaiah decided on 21.7.1998 will no way assist the

State Government to constitute separate ACB for the first time on

14.3.2016, after lapse of nearly 18 years of the said judgment and

the State Government erroneously interpreted the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the impugned order. On that ground

also, the impugned executive order cannot be sustained. 194. It is relevant to consider the provisions of Article 162 of

the constitution of India, on which basis the impugned executive

order came to be issued, which reads as under: 195. A plain reading of Article 162 of the Constitution of

India makes it clear that subject to the provisions of the

Constitution, the executive power of a State shall extend to the

matters with respect to which the Legislature of the State has

power to make laws, provided that in any matter with respect to

which the Legislature of a State and Parliament have power to

make laws, the executive power of the State shall be subject to,

and limited by, the executive power expressly conferred by the

Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the Union or

authorities thereof. When statutory powers of the Lokayukta under

the KL Act and the Rules thereof govern the field for eradication of

corruption, the executive order passed by the State Government is

contrary to the provisions of the KL Act and creation of ACB parallel

to the institution of Lokayukta is bad in law. Executive instructions

can only fill the gaps not covered by rules and cannot be in 196 derogation of statutory rules. The executive power of the State

can be exercised only on two occasions - a) if any law or Act have been made by the State
 Legislature conferring any functions or any other
 authority , in that case the Governor is not
 empowered to make any order in regard to that
 matter in exercise of the executive power nor can
 the Governor exercise such power in regard to that
 matter through officers subordinate to him. b) vesting the Governor with the executive power of
 the State Government does not create any
 embargo for the Legislature of the State from
 making any and or enacting any law conferring
 functions on any authority subordinate to the
 Governor. 196. In the present case, admittedly the KL Act has been in

force from 15th January 1986 for the purpose of improving the

standards of public administration, by looking into complaints

against administrative actions, including cases of corruption,

favouritism and official indiscipline in administration machinery,

thereby the State Government has exceeded in power to issue 197 executive order by constituting ACB parallel to the institution of

Lokayukta. The impugned executive order issued by the State

Government is to defunct the Lokayukta and it has virtually

defeated the very purpose for which the institution of Lokayukta

has been constituted The impugned executive order only created a

parallel body to the institution of Lokayukta to achieve the same

purpose with lesser intent. Therefore, the Government Order

constituting the ACB is unsustainable, suffers from malafides and

legal infirmities. The impugned executive order passed by the

State Government has indirectly diluted the powers of the

Lokayukta and the ACB cannot function either as a parallel body or

an alternate body or substitute the Lokayukta. Therefore, the

Government Order constituting the ACB for a function already being

conferred on the Lokayukta, is impermissible in law. 197. It is high time for the State Government to take

necessary steps to ensure to reform the Lokayukta and to amend

the provisions of the K.L. Act and abolish the ACB and the

recommendation of the Lokayukta or Upa-Lokayukta should be

binding on the Government. It is for the Government to take 198 proper steps to reform at the stage of the recruitment itself While

 appointing police force in the Karnataka Police Department. 198. After the enactment of KL Act, Lokayukta and Upa-

 Lokayukta, in exercise of their powers used to register the criminal

 cases against the erring public servants prior to passing of the

 impugned executive order. In fact, the term, 'public servant' is

 defined under the provisions of Section 2(12) of the KL Act. 199. The statement showing the statistics relating to criminal

 cases conducted against MLAs, MPs, Ministers, BBMP Corporators

 etc., by the Lokayukta is as under: 200. The statement showing the statistics relating to criminal

 cases conducted against IAS Officers by the Lokayukta is as under: 201. The statement showing the statistics relating to criminal

 cases conducted against IPS officers by the Lokayukta is as under: 202. After conducting enquiry, the Lokayukta/Upa-Lokayukta
 send the report/recommendations to the Government as
 contemplated under the provisions of Section 12(3) of the KL Act.
 Statement showing the 12(3) reports sent to the Government in
 respect of Ministers, MLAs. and MLCs., is as under: Infact, creation of ACB is only to protect the vested interest and not 216 to protect the interest of the general public at large. It is high time

for the State Government (any Government) or its authorities to

act as a trustee of the society and infact, in all facets of public

administration, every public servant has to exhibit honesty,

integrity, sincerity and faithfulness in implementation of the

political, social, economic and constitutional policies to integrate the

nation, to achieve excellence and efficiency in the public

administration. A public servant entrusted with duty and power to

implement constitutional policy under Articles 14 , 21 and 300 of the

Constitution of India and all inter-related directive principles of

state policy under the Constitution, should exhibit transparency in

implementation and of accountable for due effectuation of

constitutional goals. Further, the Government should allow the

Lokayukta/Upa-Lokayukta to work independently without

intervention or undue influence from anybody so that citizen of the

State can redress a grievance before them "without fear or favour". 207. Even though, we got independence about 75 years ago

by the struggle of our forefathers, who fought for our freedom by

pricing their blood, unfortunately, we are not in a position to 217 eradicate corruption till today since, no successive Governments

have taken drastic steps in that direction. Though the KL came into

force w.e.f. 15th January 1986, it worked independently only till

14.3.2016, the date on which the impugned executive order came

to be passed. 208. Unfortunately, the institution of Lokayukta has been

diluted by the executive order passed by the State Government by

creating ACB, thereby indirectly made the authority of Lokayukta

and Upa-Lokayukta "paper tigers without any teeth and claws",

which is impermissible. The legislative intent behind the KL Act is

to see that public servants covered by the sweep of the Act should

be answerable for their actions as such to the Lokayukta and Upa-

Lokayukta and such authorities should be armed with appropriate

powers and sanctions so that their orders and opinions do not

become "mere paper directions". The decisions of Lokayukta and

Upa-Lokayukta, therefore, must be capable of being fully

implemented. These authorities should not be reduced to "mere

paper tigers" etc., Therefore, it is high time for the State 218 Government to strengthen the institution of Lokayukta and Upa-

Lokayukta and get back its "glory". 209. "It is also relevant to state at this stage that the

Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta are appointed under the provisions

of Section 3(2)(a) and 3(2)(b) of the KL Act on the advice tendered

by the Chief Minister in consultation with the several constitutional

authorities. If the Government and constitutional authorities are

really interested in public welfare and interest in the development

of Karnataka, they should take conscious and unanimous decision

to recommend persons with track record of integrity and

competence and fair both on the public and personal life, to the

posts of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas uninfluenced by caste,

creed etc., and maintain transparency in the appointment. The

appointment should be non-political and the posts of Lokayukta and

Upa-Lokayuktas should not be accommodation centre for anybody."

The Government should allow the authorities to work independently

without fear or favour, for the purpose of improving the standards

of public administration, by looking into complaints against

administrative actions, including cases of corruption, favouritism 219 and official indiscipline in administration machinery. In addition to

the above, Administrative and Enquiry Wing, Technical Wing, Police

Wing and General Wing of the Lokayukta as contemplated under

the first schedule of Rule 6(2) of the Karnataka Lokayukta (C & R

etc.) Rules, 1988 should also be strengthened by appointing

honest persons. 210. It is high time for the Legislature and the judiciary to

curb the "menace of corruption which is very dangerous to the

future generation than the disease of cancer and also it is a major

obstacle to the growth of India and in particular, the State of

Karnataka." If a public servant, who is convicted for corruption, is

allowed to continue to hold public office, it would impair the morale

of the other persons manning such office, and consequently, that

would erode the already shrunk confidence of the people in such

institutions besides demoralizing the other honest public servants,

who would either be the colleagues or subordinates of the convicted

person. If honest public servants are compelled to take orders from

proclaimed corrupt officers on account of the suspension of the

conviction, the fall out would be one of the shaking system itself. 220 211. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the

provisions of Section 389 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India and Section 13(2) of the

PC Act in the case of K.C. Sareen -vs- C.B.I. Chandigarh39, at

paragraphs 11 and 12 has held as under: (Underline supplied) 212. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the

provisions of Sections 19(1) and 22 of the PC Act in the case of

Subramanian Swamy -vs- Manmohan Singh40 has strongly

condemned the corruption in the Country as under: Corruption devalues human rights, chokes a
 development and undermines justice, liberty,
 equality, fraternity which are the core values in our
 preambular vision. Therefore, the duty of the Court
 is that any anti-corruption law has to be interpreted
 and worked out in such a fashion as to strengthen
 the fight against corruption. That is to say in a
 situation where two constructions are eminently
 reasonable, the Court has to accept the one that
 seeks to eradicate corruption to the one which
 seeks to perpetuate it." (Underline supplied) 213. It is also not in dispute that India is a Member of

'United Nations Convention Against Corruption' where certain

measures were adopted for preventing corruption. Corruption is an

insidious plague that has wide range of corrosive effects on

societies. It undermines democracy and the rule of law, leads to 224 violations of human rights, distorts markets, erodes the quality of

life and allows organized crime, terrorism and other threats to

human security to flourish. Article 36 of 'United Nations

Convention Against Corruption' relates to specialized authorities and

the said Article contemplates that each State Party shall, in

accordance with the fundamental principles of its legal system,

ensure the existence of a body or bodies or persons specialized in

combating corruption through law enforcement. Such body or

bodies or persons shall be granted the necessary independence, in

accordance with the fundamental principles of the legal system of

the State Party, to be able to carry out their functions effectively

and without any undue influence. Such persons or staff of such

body or bodies should have the appropriate training and resources

to carry out their tasks. 214. It is also relevant to state at this stage that the Lokpal

and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 is enacted to provide for the

establishment of a body of Lokpal for the Union and Lokayukta for

States to inquire into allegations of corruption against certain public

functionaries and for matters connected therewith or incidental 225 thereto. Section 63 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013

specifically mandates that every State shall establish a body to be

known as the Lokayukta for the State, if not so established,

constituted or appointed, by a law made by the State Legislature, to

deal with complaints relating to corruption against certain public

functionaries, within a period of one year from the date of

commencement of this Act. 215. The object of PC Act is to consolidate and amend the

law relating to prevention of corruption and the matter connected

thereto, thereby strengthening of the Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta

is inevitable and "it is high time to say goodbye to the ACB", to

strengthen the institution of Lokayukta, which is functioning under

the provisions of the KL Act. 216. It is an undisputed fact that the Lokayukta as an

institution has all the trappings of a police station conferred on it by

virtue of several provisions of K.L. Act and Rules framed

thereunder. Section 14 of the K.L. Act makes it clear that

whenever sanction of the Competent Authority is required for

prosecution and if such action is required to be taken by the 226 Lokayukta/Upalokayukta, it is deemed to have been granted. When

the power of investigation is conferred on the Lokayukta or

Upalokayukta and the Police Wing is attached to the institution of

Lokayukta as per the statutory provisions, it cannot be reasonably

imagined that in the course of the investigation by them, even if

commission of an offence is detected either by the Lokayukta or by

the Upalokayukta, it will not have jurisdiction to deal with the

matter and that they have to be only a helpless spectator to

condone the offences committed and stay their hands and that their

power is limited only to initiate disciplinary proceedings. The object

of the legislation is to bring about transparency in the

administration and that could be brought about by initiating both

criminal and disciplinary proceedings. It cannot be contended that

Lokayukta or Upalokayukta or the Police Wing have no power to

initiate criminal proceedings and conduct an investigation on that

behalf. The power of initiating prosecution includes all the incidental

power that is required to complete the investigation. 217. As already stated supra, the K.L. Act is a self contained

code providing for investigation, filing of complaint and all other 227 incidental matters with the police attached to the Lokayukta

institution by virtue of statutory provisions. Thereby, when the

K.L. Act is holding the field, it is not permissible for the State in

exercise of its executive power under Article 162 of the

Constitution of India to constitute ACB to nullify the power

conferred on the Lokayukta as an institution under the K.L.Act. 218. Our view is fortified by the judgement of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of I.T.C. Bhadrachalam Paperboards

vs. Mandal Revenue Officer, AP41 , wherein it is held as under: (1996)6 SCC 634 228 Thereby, the very notification issued by the State Government

dated 14.3.2016 constituting ACB, cannot be sustained. 219. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of

Subramanian Swamy -vs- Director, Central Bureau of

Investigation and another42, at paragraphs 54, 57, 58, 59, 64,

69 and 70 has held as under: maker. Those are cases in which the inference
drawn is that the decision must have been
made for a corrupt motive because the
decision could not have been reached
otherwise by an officer at that level in the 231 hierarchy. This is, therefore, an area where the
opinion of persons with requisite expertise in
decision making of that kind is relevant and,
may be even decisive in reaching the
conclusion whether the allegation requires any
investigation to be made. In view of the fact
that CBI or the police force does not have the
expertise within its fold for the formation of the
requisite opinion in such cases, the need for
the inclusion of such a mechanism comprising
of experts in the field as a part of the
infrastructure of CBI is obvious, to decide
whether the accusation made discloses
grounds for a reasonable suspicion of the
commission of an offence and it requires
investigation. In the absence of any such
mechanism within the infrastructure of CBI,
comprising of experts in the field who can
evaluate the material for the decision to be
made, introduction therein of a body of experts
having expertise of the kind of business which
requires the decision to be made, can be
appreciated. But then, the final opinion is to be
of CBI with the aid of that advice and not that
of anyone else. It would be more appropriate 232 to have such a body within the infrastructure
 of CBI itself." 57. Can classification be made creating a class of the
government officers of the level of Joint Secretary and
above level and certain officials in public sector
undertakings for the purpose of inquiry/investigation
into an offence alleged to have been committed under
the PC Act, 1988 ? Or, to put it differently, can
classification be made on the basis of the
status/position of the public servant for the purpose of
inquiry/investigation into the allegation of graft which
amounts to an offence under the PC Act, 1988 ? Can the
legislature lay down different principles for
investigation/inquiry into the allegations of corruption
for the public servants who hold a particular position? Is
such classification founded on sound differentia? To
answer these questions, we should eschew the
doctrinaire approach. Rather, we should test the validity
of the impugned classification by broad considerations
having regard to the legislative policy relating to
prevention of corruption enacted in the PC Act, 1988 and the powers of inquiry/investigation under the DSPE
Act . 58. The Constitution permits the State to determine, by
the process of classification, what should be regarded 233 as a class for purposes of legislation and in relation to
law enacted on a particular subject. There is bound to
be some degree of inequality when there is segregation
of one class from the other. However, such segregation
must be rational and not artificial or evasive. In other
words, the classification must not only be based on
some qualities or characteristics, which are to be found
in all persons grouped together and not in others who
are left out but those qualities or characteristics must
have a reasonable relation to the object of the
legislation. Differentia which is the basis of classification
must be sound and must have reasonable relation to
the object of the legislation. If the object itself is
discriminatory, then explanation that classification is
reasonable having rational relation to the object sought
to be achieved is immaterial. 59. It seems to us that classification which is made in
Section 6-A on the basis of status in government
service is not permissible under Article 14 as it defeats
the purpose of finding prima facie truth into the
allegations of graft, which amount to an offence under
the PC Act, 1988 . Can there be sound differentiation
between corrupt public servants based on their status?
Surely not, because irrespective of their status or
position, corrupt public servants are corrupters of public 234 power. The corrupt public servants, whether high or
low, are birds of the same feather and must be
confronted with the process of investigation and inquiry
equally. Based on the position or status in service, no
distinction can be made between public servants
against whom there are allegations amounting to an
offence under the PC Act, 1988 . 64. As a matter of fact, the justification for Section 6-A
which has been put forth before us on behalf of the
Central Government was the justification for Single
Directive 4.7(3)(i) in Vineet Narain [(1998) 1 SCC 226 : We are in agreement with the above observation in
Vineet Narain [(1998) 1 SCC 226 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 307]
, which, in our opinion, equally applies to Section 6-A. 235 In Vineet Narain [(1998) 1 SCC 226 : 1998 SCC (Cri)
307] , this Court did not accept the argument that the
Single Directive is applicable only to certain class of
officers above the specified level who are decision-
making officers and a distinction can be made for them
for the purpose of investigation of an offence of which
they are accused. We are also clearly of the view that
no distinction can be made for certain class of officers
specified in Section 6-A who are described as decision-
making officers for the purpose of inquiry/investigation
into an offence under the PC Act, 1988 . There is no
rational basis to classify the two sets of public servants
differently on the ground that one set of officers is
decision-making officers and not the other set of
officers. If there is an accusation of bribery, graft, illegal
gratification or criminal misconduct against a public
servant, then we fail to understand as to how the status
of offender is of any relevance. Where there are
allegations against a public servant which amount to an
offence under the PC Act, 1988 , no factor pertaining to
expertise of decision making is involved. Yet, Section 6-
A makes a distinction. It is this vice which renders
Section 6-A violative of Article 14. Moreover, the result
of the impugned legislation is that the very group of
persons, namely, high-ranking bureaucrats whose
misdeeds and illegalities may have to be inquired into, 236 would decide whether CBI should even start an inquiry
or investigation against them or not. There will be no
confidentiality and insulation of the investigating agency
from political and bureaucratic control and influence
because the approval is to be taken from the Central
Government which would involve leaks and disclosures
at every stage. 69. The signature tune in Vineet Narain [(1998) 1 SCC
226 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 307] is, "However high you may
be, the law is above you." We reiterate the same.
Section 6-A offends this signature tune and effectively Article 14. 70. Undoubtedly, every differentiation is not a
discrimination but at the same time, differentiation
must be founded on pertinent and real differences as
distinguished from irrelevant and artificial ones. A
simple physical grouping which separates one category
from the other without any rational basis is not a sound
or intelligible differentia. The separation or segregation
must have a systematic relation and rational basis and
the object of such segregation must not be
discriminatory. Every public servant against whom there
is reasonable suspicion of commission of crime or there
are allegations of an offence under the PC Act, 1988 has
to be treated equally and similarly under the law. Any 237 distinction made between them on the basis of their
 status or position in service for the purposes of
 inquiry/investigation is nothing but an artificial one and
 offends Article 14." 220. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the

provisions of section 3(2)(a) and (b) of the KL Act in the case of Justice Chandrashekaraiah .vs. Janekere C. Krishna and

others43, at paragraphs 36, 37, 106, 107 and 112 has held as

under: judicial authority but his functions are investigative in
nature. The Constitution Bench of this Court in Nagendra Nath Bora v. Commr. of Hills Division and
Appeals [AIR 1958 SC 398] held : (AIR p. 408, para 14)

 "14. ... Whether or not an administrative
 body or authority functions as a purely
 administrative one or in a quasi-judicial
 capacity, must be determined in each case,
 on an examination of the relevant statute
 and the rules framed thereunder." 106. The conditions of service of the staff of the Upa-
Lokayukta are referred to in Section 15 of the Act. They
may be prescribed in consultation with the Lokayukta in
such a manner that the staff may act without fear in the
discharge of their functions. Section 15 of the Act also
enables the Upa-Lokayukta to utilise the services of any
officer or investigating agency of the State or even of
the Central Government, though with the prior
concurrence of the Central Government or the State
Government. Section 15(4) of the Act makes it clear
that the officers and other employees of the Upa- 239 Lokayukta are under the administrative and disciplinary
control of the Lokayukta. 107. The broad spectrum of functions, powers, duties
and responsibilities of the Upa-Lokayukta, as statutorily
prescribed, clearly bring out that not only does he
perform quasi-judicial functions, as contrasted with
purely administrative or executive functions, but that
the Upa-Lokayukta is more than an investigator or an
enquiry officer. At the same time, notwithstanding his
status, he is not placed on the pedestal of a judicial
authority rendering a binding decision. He is placed
somewhere in between an investigator and a judicial
authority, having the elements of both. For want of a
better expression, the office of an Upa-Lokayukta can
only be described as a sui generis quasi-judicial
authority. 112. As mentioned above, an Upa-Lokayukta does
function as an adjudicating authority but the Act places
him short of a judicial authority. He is much more
"judicial" than an investigator or an inquisitorial
authority largely exercising administrative or executive
functions and powers. Under the circumstances, taking
an overall view of the provisions of the Act and the law
laid down, my conclusion is that the Upa-Lokayukta is a
quasi-judicial authority or in any event an authority 240 exercising functions, powers, duties and responsibilities
 conferred by the Act as a sui generis quasi-judicial
 authority." 221. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the

provisions of Articles 14 , 21 , 32 , 141 , 142 and 144 of the

Constitution of India in the case of Vineet Narain and others -

vs- Union of India and others44, at paragraphs 38 39 40, 41, 42

and 43 has held as under: Sections 3 and 4 of the Delhi Special Police
Establishment Act, 1946: The meaning of the word "superintendence" in Section
4(1) of the Delhi Special Police Act, 1946 determines 242 the scope of the authority of the Central Government in
this context. 39. There can be no doubt that the overall
administration of the said force, i.e., CBI vests in the
Central Government, which also includes, by virtue of Section 3 , the power to specify the offences or class of
offences which are to be investigated by it. The general
superintendence over the functioning of the Department
and specification of the offences which are to be
investigated by the agency is not the same as and
would not include within it the control of the initiation
and the actual process of investigation, i.e., direction.
Once the CBI is empowered to investigate an offence
generally by its specification under Section 3 , the
process of investigation, including its initiation, is to be
governed by the statutory provisions which provide for
the initiation and manner of investigation of the offence.
This is not an area which can be included within the
meaning of "superintendence" in Section 4(1) . 40. It is, therefore, the notification made by the Central
Government under Section 3 which confers and
determines the jurisdiction of the CBI to investigate an
offence; and once that jurisdiction is attracted by virtue
of the notification under Section 3 , the actual
investigation is to be governed by the statutory 243 provisions under the general law applicable to such
investigations. This appears to us the proper
construction of Section 4(1) in the context, and it is in
harmony with the scheme of the Act, and Section 3 in
particular. The word "superintendence" in Section 4(1) cannot be construed in a wider sense to permit
supervision of the actual investigation of an offence by
the CBI contrary to the manner provided by the
statutory provisions. The broad proposition urged on
behalf of the Union of India that it can issue any
directive to the CBI to curtail or inhibit its jurisdiction to
investigate an offence specified in the notification issued
under Section 3 by a directive under Section 4(1) of the
Act cannot be accepted. The jurisdiction of the CBI to
investigate an offence is to be determined with
reference to the notification issued under Section 3 and
not by any separate order not having that character. 41. This view does not conflict with the decision in
J.A.C. Saldanha [(1980) 1 SCC 554 : 1980 SCC (Cri)
272] as earlier indicated. In Saldanha [(1980) 1 SCC
554 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 272] the question was whether an
unsatisfactory investigation already made could be
undertaken by another officer for further investigation
of the offence so that the offence was properly
investigated as required by law, and it was not to 244 prevent the investigation of an offence. The Single
Directive has the effect of restraining recording of FIR
and initiation of investigation and not of proceeding with
investigation, as in Saldanha [(1980) 1 SCC 554 : 1980
SCC (Cri) 272] . No authority to permit control of
statutory powers exercised by the police to investigate
an offence within its jurisdiction has been cited before
us except K. Veeraswami [(1991) 3 SCC 655 : 1991
SCC (Cri) 734] which we have already distinguished.
The view we take accords not only with reason but also
with the very purpose of the law and is in consonance
with the basic tenet of the rule of law. 42. Once the jurisdiction is conferred on the CBI to
investigate an offence by virtue of notification under Section 3 of the Act, the powers of investigation are
governed by the statutory provisions and they cannot
be estopped or curtailed by any executive instruction
issued under Section 4(1) thereof. This result follows
from the fact that conferment of jurisdiction is under Section 3 of the Act and exercise of powers of
investigation is by virtue of the statutory provisions
governing investigation of offences. It is settled that
statutory jurisdiction cannot be subject to executive
control. 43. There is no similarity between a mere executive
order requiring prior permission or sanction for
investigation of the offence and the sanction needed
under the statute for prosecution. The requirement of
sanction for prosecution being provided in the very
statute which enacts the offence, the sanction for
prosecution is a prerequisite for the court to take
cognizance of the offence. In the absence of any
statutory requirement of prior permission or sanction
for investigation, it cannot be imposed as a condition
precedent for initiation of the investigation once
jurisdiction is conferred on the CBI to investigate the
offence by virtue of the notification under Section 3 of
the Act. The word "superintendence" in Section 4(1) of
the Act in the context must be construed in a manner
consistent with the other provisions of the Act and the
general statutory powers of investigation which govern
investigation even by the CBI. The necessity of previous
sanction for prosecution is provided in Section 6 of the
Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 ( Section 19 of the
1988 Act) without which no court can take cognizance
of an offence punishable under Section 5 of that Act.
There is no such previous sanction for investigation
provided for either in the Prevention of Corruption Act or the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act or in any
other statutory provision. The above is the only manner 246 in which Section 4(1) of the Act can be harmonised with Section 3 and the other statutory provisions. 222. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the

provisions of Section 3 of the Gujarath Lokayukta Act with regard to

public accountability, vigilance and prevention of corruption, in the

case of State of Gujarat and another -vs- Justice R.A. Mehta

(Retired) and others45, at paragraphs 85 to 89 has held as

under; Such a view is taken considering the fact that Section 3 of the 1986 Act does not envisage unanimity in the
 consultative process. 88. Leaving the finality of choice of appointment to the
 Council of Ministers would be akin to allowing a person
 who is likely to be investigated to choose his own judge.
 Additionally, a person possessing limited power cannot
 be permitted to exercise unlimited powers. 89. However, in light of the facts and circumstances of
 the case, it cannot be held that the process of
 consultation was incomplete and was not concluded as
 per the requirements of the 1986 Act." 223. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ashwini

Kumar Upadhyay -vs- Union of India46, in respect of State of

Tamil Nadu, has observed as under: 224. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the

provisions of Section 15 of the KL Act and Section 17 of the PC Act

in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah and others -vs- Karnataka

Lokayukta and others47, at paragraphs 19, 20, 25, 26, 27 and

28 has held as under: 225. The Hon'ble Suprme Court while considering the

provisions of Section 3(3) and Section 8A(2) of the Commissions of 255 Inquiry Act and Section 21 of the General Clauses Act in the case of

State of M.P. -vs- Ajay Singh and others48, at paragraph-17

held as under: may be appointed by the appropriate Government if it is
 of opinion that it is necessary so to do and shall make
 such an appointment if a resolution in this behalf is
 passed by each House of Parliament or, as the case
 may be, the Legislature of the State, by notification in
 the official Gazette. Sub-section (2) of Section 3 says
 that the Commission may consist of one or more
 members appointed by the appropriate Government,
 and where the number is more than one, one of them
 may be appointed as the Chairman. Sub-section (3) of Section 3 enables the appropriate Government to fill
 any vacancy which may arise in the office of a member 48 (1993)1 SCC 302: AIR 1993 SC 825 256 of the Commission whether consisting of one or more
than one member, at any stage of an inquiry. Sub-
section (4) of Section 3 requires the appropriate
Government to cause to be laid before each House of
Parliament or, as the case may be, the legislature of the
State, the report, if any, of the Commission of Inquiry
together with a memorandum of the action taken
thereon, within a period of six months from the
submission of the report by the Commission to the
appropriate Government. Section 4 prescribes that the
Commission shall have the powers of a civil court while
trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure in
respect of the matters mentioned therein. Section 5 deals with the additional powers of the Commission.
Section 5-A relates to the power of the Commission for
conducting investigation pertaining to ∼ inquiry. Section
5-B deals with the power of the Commission to appoint
assessors. Section 6 provides for the manner of use of
the statements made by persons to the Commission.
Section 6-A provides that some persons are not obliged
to disclose certain facts. Section 7 deals with the
manner in which a Commission of Inquiry appointed
under Section 3 ceases to exist in case its continuance
is unnecessary. It provides for a notification in the
official Gazette by the appropriate Government
specifying the date from which the Commission shall 257 cease to exist if it is of the opinion that the continued
existence of the Commission is unnecessary. Where a
Commission is appointed in pursuance of a resolution
passed by the Parliament or, as the case may be, the
Legislature of the State, then a resolution for the
discontinuance of the Commission is also to be passed
by it. Section 8-A provides that the inquiry is not to be
interrupted by reason of vacancy or change in the
constitution of the Commission and it shall not be
necessary for the Commission to commence the inquiry
afresh and the inquiry may be continued from the stage
at which the change took place. Section 8-B prescribes
that persons likely to be prejudicially affected by the
inquiry must be heard. Section 8-C deals with the right
of cross-examination and representation by legal
practitioner of the appropriate Government, every
person referred to in Section 8-B and, with the
permission of the Commission, any other person whose
evidence is recorded by the Commission. Sections 9 , 10 and 10-A relate to ancillary matters while Section 12 contains the rule-making power of the appropriate
Government. Section 11 provides that the Act is to
apply to other inquiring authorities in certain cases and
where the Government directs that the said provisions
of this Act shall apply to that authority and issues such
a notification, that authority shall be deemed to be a 258 Commission appointed under Section 3 for the purposes
of this Act. Admittedly, it is by virtue of Section 11 that
the Commission of Inquiry appointed in the present
case is deemed to be a Commission appointed under Section 3 for the purposes of this Act because the
Commission was constituted by a resolution of the
Government pursuant to the direction of the M.P. High
Court in the writ petition filed in public interest by
Kailash Joshi as indicated earlier. For the purposes of
this case, the material provisions of the enactment are Sections 3 , 7 and 8-A apart from Section 21 of the
General Clauses Act, 1897 with reference to which the
rival contentions were made. These provisions are as
under: 7. Commission to cease to exist when so notified.--

 (1) The appropriate Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, declare that-- (a) a Commission (other than a Commission
 appointed in pursuance of a resolution passed
 by each House of Parliament or, as the case
 may be, the Legislature of the State) shall
 cease to exist, if it is of opinion that the 261 continued existence of the Commission is
 unnecessary; (b) a Commission appointed in pursuance of a
 resolution passed by each House of Parliament
 or, as the case may be, the Legislature of the
 State, shall cease to exist if a resolution for the
 discontinuance of the Commission is passed by
 each House of Parliament or, as the case may
 be, the Legislature of the State. (2) Every notification issued under sub-section (1)
shall specify the date from which the Commission shall
cease to exist and on the issue of such notification, the
Commission shall cease to exist with effect from the
date specified therein. 8-A. Inquiry not to be interrupted by reason of
vacancy or change in the constitution of the
Commission.-- (1) Where the Commission consists of
two or more members, it may act notwithstanding the
absence of the Chairman or any other member of any
vacancy among its members. (2) Where during the course of an inquiry before a
Commission, a change has taken place in the
constitution of the Commission by reason of any 262 vacancy having been filled or by any other reason, it
 shall not be necessary for the Commission to commence
 the inquiry afresh and the inquiry may be continued
 from the stage at which the change took place." The General Clauses Act, 1897 "21. Power to issue, to include power to add to,
 amend, vary or rescind, notifications, orders, rules or
 bye-laws.-- Where, by any Central Act or Regulation, a
 power to issue notifications, orders, rules or bye-laws is
 conferred, then that power includes a power,
 exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like
 sanction and conditions (if any) to add to, amend, vary
 or rescind any notifications, orders, rule or bye-laws so
 issued." 226. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the

provisions of Section 3(1)(a) , 7 and 2(h) of the Orissa Lokpal and

Lokayuktas Act, 1995 in the case of Justice K.P. Mohapatra -vs-

Sri ram Chandra Nayak and others49, at paragraphs 11 and 12

has held as under: 49 used in Section 3 is required to be interpreted. As
provided under Section 3 , a person is not qualified to be
appointed as Lokpal unless he is or has been a Judge of
the Supreme Court or of a High Court. In the context of
the functions which are to be discharged by the Lokpal, 264 it is apparent that they are of utmost importance in
seeing that unpolluted administration of the State is
maintained and maladministration as defined under Section 2(h) is exposed so that appropriate action
against such maladministration and administrator could
be taken. The investigation which Lokpal is required to
carry out is that of quasi-judicial nature which would
envisage not only knowledge of law, but also of the
nature and work which is required to be discharged by
an administrator. In this context, the word
"consultation" used in Section 3(1) proviso (a) would
require that consultation with the Chief Justice of the
High Court of Orissa is a must or a sine qua non. For
such appointment, the Chief Justice of the High Court
would be the best person for proposing and suggesting
such person for being appointed as Lokpal. His opinion
would be totally independent and he would be in a
position to find out who is most or more suitable for the
said office. In this context, primacy is required to be
given to the opinion of the Chief Justice of the High
Court. It is true that proviso (a) provides that Leader of
the Opposition, if there is any, is also required to be
consulted. Therefore, if there is no Leader of the
Opposition, consultation is not required. This would
indicate the nature of such consultation and which is to
apprise him of the proposed action but his opinion is not 265 binding on the Government. At the same time, his
 views or objections are to be taken into consideration.
 If something is adverse against the person proposed by
 the Government, he would be entitled to express his
 views and point it out to the Government. This,
 however, would not mean that he could suggest some
 other name and the Government is required to consider
 it. It would, therefore, be open to the Government to
 override the opinion given by the Leader of the
 Opposition with regard to the appointment of a Lokpal
 who is statutorily required to be a sitting or retired
 Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court. Under Section 3(1) of the Act, there is no question of initiation
 of proposal by the Leader of the Opposition." (Underline supplied) 227. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering with

regard to Police reforms and measures to insulate Police machinery

from political/executive interference, in the case of Prakash Singh

and others -vs- Union of India and others50, at paragraphs 19,

22, 26 and 29 has held as under: 50 22. For separation of investigation work from law and
order even the Law Commission of India in its 154th
Report had recommended such separation to ensure
speedier investigation, better expertise and improved
rapport with the people without of course any
watertight compartmentalisation in view of both
functions being closely interrelated at the ground level. 26. Having regard to (i) the gravity of the problem; (ii)
the urgent need for preservation and strengthening of
the rule of law; (iii) pendency of even this petition for
the last over ten years; (iv) the fact that various
commissions and committees have made
recommendations on similar lines for introducing
reforms in the police set-up in the country; and (v) total
uncertainty as to when police reforms would be
introduced, we think that there cannot be any further
wait, and the stage has come for issuing of appropriate
directions for immediate compliance so as to be
operative till such time a new model Police Act is
prepared by the Central Government and/or the State
Governments pass the requisite legislations. It may
further be noted that the quality of the criminal justice
system in the country, to a large extent, depends upon
the working of the police force. Thus, having regard to
the larger public interest, it is absolutely necessary to 268 issue the requisite directions. Nearly ten years back, in Vineet Narain v. Union of India [(1998) 1 SCC 226 : Lokayukta are altogether different from a civil and criminal lis.

Unlike civil or criminal proceedings, a citizen making allegations

against a public functionary may not be in possession of complete

facts or documents, unless the allegation arises out of his personal

transaction with any public functionary. The powers conferred on

the Lokayukta are advisedly very wide and these powers are wider

than of any court of law. Notwithstanding remedies to be found in

courts of law and in statutory appeals against administrative

decisions, there still remains a gap in the machinery for the 272 redressal of grievances of the individuals against administrative

acts or omissions. This gap should be filled by an authority which

is able to act more speedily, informally and with a greater regard to

the individual justice of a case than is possible by ordinary legal

process of the Courts, it should not be regarded as a substitute for,

or rival to, the Legislature or to the Courts, but as a necessary

supplement to their work, using weapons of persuasion,

recommendation and publicity rather than compulsion. The fight

between an individual citizen and the State is unequal in nature.

Therefore, the very existence of Lokayukta institution will act as a

check and will be helpful in checking the canker of corruption and

maladministration. Moreso, when it has been repeatedly asserted

that the canker of corruption, in the proportions it is said to have

attained, may well dig into the vitals of our democratic State, and

eventually destroy it. (As stated in the book called, 'Corruption-

Control of Maladministration' by John D. Monteiro). 230. The provisions of KL Act, which is enacted for the

eradication of the evil of corruption and maladministration must be

construed liberally so as to advance the remedy. In our opinion, 273 there is absolutely no merit in the impugned executive order passed

by the State Government, in exercise of the powers under the

provisions of Article 162 of the Constitution of India and the

impugned order cannot be sustained. It is also not in dispute that

before enacting the KL Act, public opinion has been agitated for a

long time over the prevalence of corruption in the administration

and it is likely that cases coming up before the independent

authorities like Lokayukta or Upa-Lokayukta might involve

allegations or actual evidence of corrupt motive and favouritism.

We think that the institution of Lokayukta should deal with such

cases as well. 231. It is also relevant to refer to the main features of the

institutions of Lokpal and Lokayukta, which are as under: 232. We have no doubt that the working of the Institution of

Lokayukta in Karnataka will be watched with keen expectation and

interest by the other states in India. We hope that this aspect

would also be fully borne in mind by Government in considering the

urgency and importance of the independence of the Lokayukta. A 275 Lokayukta is to function as a sentinel to ensure a corruption free

administration. 233. As already stated supra, the object of the KL Act and PC

Act was to achieve common object and goal of corruption free

society. Common man has immense faith in the institution of

Karnataka Lokayukta and also its Police Wing, that too after

handling investigating relating to mining scam. Earlier, the

common man could have filed the complaint against anybody to set

the law into motion under the PC Act and there was no bureaucratic

impediment or decision required to initiate the proceedings against

a complaint. However, ACB was set up abruptly with an intention

to take control of the pending investigations against the high

functionaries of the State, Bureaucrats etc., In order to protect

and scuttle the investigation against political class and bureaucrats,

Government Order dated 14.3.2016 came to be issued constituting

ACB as authority for investigation under the PC Act , thereby the

very purpose of KL Act was indirectly defeated. As per the

provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , the complainant

himself should not be an Investigating Officer. As per the 276 impugned executive order, if any complaint filed as against the

Chief Minister or the Minister in the Council of Ministers, the Chief

Minister himself has to oversee the investigation and also permit

investigation, thereby the impugned executive order is opposed to

the rule of law and contrary to the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah51. The impugned

Government Order constituting ACB empowers the Hon'ble Chief

Minister to veto investigation or the sanction of investigation. This

itself defeats the very purpose of the Anti Corruption Drive and ACB

is not at all an independent body. The Police force of ACB works

under the authority of the Hon'ble Chief Minister and any

independent investigation is only a mirage. No serving officers

would be in a position to conduct an enquiry against the Hon'ble

Chief Minister under whom they would be working as subordinates.

Therefore by the constitution of ACB, the basic investigation

apparatus/mechanism is dysfunctional. The ACB is constituted

virtually to defeat the very purpose of PC Act itself. The State is

bent upon saving its corrupt Ministers and Officers and therefore

the impugned Government Order and subsequent supporting 51 Supra at Footnote No.1 277 notifications are contrary to the very object of the KL Act. The

constitution of ACB is one without authority of law and though it

purports to create an independent wing, it is controlled by the

Hon'ble Chief Minister. Thus, the Lokayukta Police Force is virtually

abolished by creation of ACB. The State Government issued the

impugned Government Order constituting ACB on an erroneous

understanding of the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

India in the case of C. Rangaswamaiah52. In fact the said

judgment curtails the power of the State Government to constitute

ACB or any alternative mode of investigating agency and interfere

with the functioning of the Lokayukta. The statutory powers

assigned to Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta under the provisions of

the KL Act cannot be diluted by the executive orders passed by the

State Government under Article 162 of the Constitution of India.

After the constitution of ACB by way of executive order, the State

Government issued notifications dated 19.3.2016, thereby

superseding the earlier notifications dated 6.2.1991, 8.5.2002 and

5.12.2002 that authorized the Lokayukta Police with powers to 52 Supra at Footnote No.1 278 investigate and had declared the offices of Police Wing of Lokayukta

as Police Stations. 234. The ACB is established by means of an executive order,

which has no legs to stand and the ACB cannot perform the duty of

the police unless it is established by means of a statute. The

constitution of ACB itself is shaky, oppose to the provisions of law

and cannot perform the duty of the police. The police wing is an

independent investigating agency and though ACB purports to

create an independent wing, it is controlled by the Hon'ble Chief

Minister i.e., control of political executive. The ACB cannot

constitute an independent police force when already the field is

occupied by the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 . A Police Officer who

is working under the control of the Home Department or State while

being investigating officer under ACB cannot be expected to

conduct a fair and impartial investigation in relation to high ranking

public servants and it is likely to be insulated from such influence. 235. For the reasons stated above, the impugned

Government Order dated 14.03.2016 constituting ACB, notifications

dated 19.03.2016 and all subsequent notifications issued pursuant 279 to the Government Order dated 14.03.2016 for the purpose of

formation and working of the ACB, are liable to be quashed.

Consequently, Anti Corruption Bureau is liable to be abolished. But,

all inquiries, investigations and other disciplinary proceedings

pending before the ACB will get transferred to the Lokayukta. To

be specific, the proceedings in respect of some of the private

petitioners which are pending before the ACB will get transferred to

the Lokayukta and the said petitioners cannot escape from the

clutches of law and they have to face the proceedings before the

Police Wing of the Karnataka Lokayukta, who shall proceed in

accordance with law. 236. Before parting with the matter, we deem it proper to

observe that in order to eradicate corruption, keeping in view the

object of the KL Act and in the interest of justice for public at large,

we request the constitutional authorities as contemplated under the

provisions of Section 3(2)(a) and 3(2)(b) of the KL Act to take

conscious and unanimous decision to recommend persons with

track record of integrity, competence and fair, both on the public

and personal life, to the posts of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas 280 uninfluenced by caste, creed etc., and maintain transparency in the

appointment. The appointment should be non-political and the

posts of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta should not be

accommodation centre for anybody. XVI. Recommendations 237. In view of the above discussion, we are of the

considered opinion to make following recommendations to the State

Government: The officers/officials, who at present working in

 the ACB hereinafter shall be under the

 administrative and exclusive disciplinary control of

 Lokayukta. d) The officers and officials, who assist the

 Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas in discharge of

 their functions shall not be transferred for a

 minimum period of three years, without the

 consent of Lokayukta/Upa-Lokayukta, as the case

 may be. e) The investigation once started shall be completed

 within the reasonable period. In case any

 proceedings are pending before the Lokayukta or 282 Upa-Lokayuktas on account of pendency of the

 matters before the Courts, necessary steps shall

 be taken for early disposal of the matters before

 the Courts. XVII. Conclusion 238. On appreciation of the entire material placed on record

and in the light of the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

cited supra, we answer the points raised in these writ petitions as

under: XVIII. Result 239. In view of the above, we pass the following order: 4) The notifications dated 6.2.1991, 8.5.2002 and

 5.12.2002 that authorized the Lokayukta Police

 with powers to investigate under the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and had

 declared the offices of Police Wing of Lokayukta

 as Police Stations under Section 2(s) of the Code

 of Criminal Procedure, are hereby restored. 5. (a) W.P. No.16222/2017 filed by Mr. K.T.
 Nagaraja; accordingly disposed off, in view of quashing of 287 the Government Order dated 14.3.2016 in PILs

 stated supra. 6) Since this Court quashed the impugned

 Government Order dated 14.3.2016 and the

 impugned Government Notifications dated

 19.3.2016, the Anti Corruption Bureau is

 abolished. But all inquiries, investigations and

 other disciplinary proceedings pending before the

 ACB will get transferred to the Lokayukta. However, all inquiries, investigations, disciplinary

 proceedings, orders of convictions/acquittals and

 all other proceedings held by ACB till today, are

 hereby saved and the Police Wing of Karnataka

 Lokayukta shall proceed from the stage at which

 they are pending as on today, in accordance with

 law. 7) Consequently, the proceedings in respect of some

 of the private petitioners which are pending

 before the ACB, will get transferred to the 288 Lokayukta and the said petitioners cannot escape

 from the clutches of law and they have to face the

 proceedings before the Police Wing of the

 Karnataka Lokayukta, who shall proceed in

 accordance with law. 8) In crafting this judgment, the erudition of the

 learned counsel for the parties, their industry,

 vision and above all, dispassionate objectivity in

 discharging their role as officers of the Court must

 be commended. We acknowledge the valuable

 assistance rendered by Sri Ravi B. Naik, learned

 senior counsel for Sri K.B. Monesh Kumar,

 advocate; Sri V. Lakshminarayana, learned senior

 counsel/amicus curiae; Sri M.S. Bhagwat, learned

 senior counsel for Sri Satish .K, advocate; Sri

 D.L. Jagadeesh, learned senior counsel a/w Smt.

 Rakshitha D.J.; Sri Basavaraj S., learned senior

 counsel for Sri Gowtham A.R.; Sri Sharath S.

 Gowda and Sri C.V. Sudhindra, learned counsel 289 for the petitioners in these writ petitions so also

 Sri Prabhuling K. Navadgi, learned Advocate

 General a/w Sri V. Sreenidhi, AGA and Sri Kiran

 Kumar, learned HCGP for the respondent/State;

 Sri Ashok Haranahalli, learned senior counsel a/w

 Sri Venkatesh S. Arabatti, Spl. PP and Sri B.S.

 Prasad, learned counsel for the

 respondent/Lokayukta; and Sri P.N. Manmohan,

 learned counsel for respondent/ACB. We place on

 record their valuable services. 240. The Registry is directed to send a copy of this Order to

the Chief Secretary to the Government, State of Karnataka,

forthwith for taking necessary steps. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE

Gss*