The applicant has filed this First bail application under Section 482 of
 BNSS/438 of Cr.P.C . for grant of anticipatory bail. 2. Applicant apprehends his arrest in connection with Crime No.201 of
 2025 registered at Police Station Vishwavidyalay, District Gwalior (M.P.) in
 relation to the offence punishable under Sections 420 , 120(B) of IPC. 3. As per prosecution story, the incident relates to land bearing survey

 No.196. admeasuring 1.2960 hectares, which is stated to be in the ownership,
 title, and possession of Patiram. When the complainant checked the online
 Khasra records in the year 2024, he came to know that an entry had been
 made regarding the execution of a sale deed in respect of Survey No.196.
 Thereafter, upon obtaining further information, it was found that a registered
 sale deed had been executed in the name of Suresh Kumar, r/o Gwalior, who
 was authorized by Krishna Landcon Private Limited, and the same was Signature Not Verified Signed by: NEETU SHASHANK Signing time: 1/7/2026 6:46:29 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:334

 2 MCRC-58258-2025

 reflected in the revenue records. This clearly shows that Krishna Landcon
 Private Limited, in collusion with Mr. Suresh Kumar, the witnesses, and the
 Sub Registrar, Gwalior entered into a criminal, pre-planned conspiracy and
 caused the execution of a sale deed of the above-described land. For the
 purpose of executing the said sale deed, forged documents were prepared and
 other persons were falsely presented, and the sale deed of the complainant's
 land was got executed in the government office by Krishna Landcon Private
 Limited through Suresh Kumar, in connivance with the witnesses and the
 Sub-Registrar, with the intention of obtaining unlawful gain. In relation
 thereto, upon the direction of the Trial Court under Section 156(3) of
 Cr.P.C., the Police Station Vishwavidyalay was directed to register an FIR,

 and accordingly on 14.06.2025, Crime No.199/2025 was registered for the
 offence as aforesaid. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that the applicant is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case.It is further submitted
 that it is purely a civil dispute between the parties. The allegations made by
 the complainant against the applicant are based on incorrect facts. In reality,
 the applicant got the sale deed of the aforesaid land executed through
 property brokers namely Lokendra Jatav, Ajay Jatav, Manish Jatav, Vinod
 Jatav, who, as per their representations, dealt with the landowners. The
 applicant paid the actual consideration amount through banking channels and
 got the sale deed executed from the persons presented as landowners. In
 relation to the fraud committed against the applicant, the applicant had
 submitted a written complaint against the aforesaid brokers before the Signature Not Verified Signed by: NEETU SHASHANK Signing time: 1/7/2026 6:46:29 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:334

 3 MCRC-58258-2025
 Superintendent of Police, Gwalior. The applicant, acting in good faith, relied
 upon the persons and documents presented by the brokers and, treating them
 as the true owners of the property on the basis of their Aadhaar cards and
 land documents, paid the genuine consideration amount and got the sale deed
 of the said land executed. The applicant has not committed any fraud against
 any person, nor has the applicant intentionally committed any offence. It is
 further submitted that if he is arrested by the police, his reputation in society
 will be permanently tarnished. There is no likelihood of his absconsion or
 tampering with the prosecution evidence. Applicant undertakes to cooperate
 in investigation/trial. The applicant is ready to abide by all the terms and
 condition as imposed by this Court. Under these grounds, learned counsel
 prayed for anticipatory bail. 5. Learned counsel for the respondent/State has vehemently opposed
 the prayer and prayed for dismissal of the application. 6. Heard the counsel for the parties and perused the case diary. 7. Considering the above submissions and facts situation of the case,
 without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, this Court intends
 to allow the application, therefore, it is hereby directed that in the event of
 arrest, the applicant shall be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond in
 the sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rs. Fifty Thousand Only) with two solvent sureties
 of the like amount to the satisfaction of Arresting Authority/Investigating
 Officer. 8. This order will remain operative subject to compliance of the

 following conditions by the applicant:- (2). The applicant will cooperate in the investigation/ trial, as the case
 may be; (3). The applicant will not indulge himself in extending inducement,
 threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to
 dissuade him/her from disclosing such facts to the Court or to the Police
 Officer, as the case may be; (4). The applicant shall not commit any offence similar to the offence
 of which he is accused; (5). The applicant will not seek unnecessary adjournments during the
 trial; (6). The applicant will not leave India without previous permission of
 the trial Court/Investigating Officer, as the case may be. 9. Application stands allowed and disposed of. 10. Copy of this order be sent to the trial Court concerned for
 compliance. Certified copy as per rules. (MILIND RAMESH PHADKE)
 JUDGE

 neetu Signature Not Verified Signed by: NEETU SHASHANK Signing time: 1/7/2026 6:46:29 PM