Heard on I.A. No.5367 of 2024 - an application for deleting the
 applicant No.4. For the reasons mentioned in the application, the same is allowed.
 The applicant No.4 is permitted to be deleted from the proceedings.
 Correction be carried out during the course of the day. The present petition has been filed by the applicants seeking
 quashment of the FIR bearing Crime No.9 of 2018 registered at Police

 Station Moondi, District Khandwa for the offence punishable under Sections
 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 / 34 of the Indian Penal Code. 2. The case of the applicants is that father of complainant namely
 Sureshchandra Agrawal has made a written complaint at Police Moondi,
 District Khandwa to the effect that vide registered sale-deed dated
 18.05.2011 applicants along with other co-accused persons have sold out the Signature Not Verified Signed by: TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN KHAN Signing time: 9/12/2024 5:34:24 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:45433

 2 MCRC-18463-2019
 land bearing Khasra No.83/1, Area measuring 1.208 Hectares situated at
 Village Beed to the tune of Rs.7,50,000/- to Smt. Kshama, wife of Neeraj
 Agrawal. At the time of mutation, he came to know about the fact that the
 aforesaid land has already been sold out to Krishi Upaj Mandi by the father
 of the applicants, in this way they have committed fraud with the
 complainant. On the basis of said complaint, the FIR was registered. It is
 argued that the applicants have not committed any offence in any manner.
 Since the name of the applicants have been entered into Khasra
 Panchshala/Rin Pustika and prior to sale of the aforesaid land a public notice
 was issued in the local newspaper and no objection was filed by the Krishi
 Upaj Mandi. It is further argued that earlier father of the applicants No.1 to 7
 namely Shri B.L. Sharma has sold out the land bearing Khasra No.83, Area

 measuring 3.658 Hectares situated at Village Beed vide registered sale-deed
 dated 29.12.1981 to Krishi Upaj Mandi. At the relevant time the applicants
 No.1 to 4 and 9 were living in their matrimonial houses. They have no
 knowledge about the execution of the said sale-deed. They have not
 committed any fraud as the land was lying vacant and possession has not
 been taken by Krishi Upaj Mandi. Considering the aforesaid aspect they have
 been enlarged on anticipatory/regular bails by this Court with a direction to
 deposit the amount of Rs.72,445/- being their shares before the Arresting
 Officer and in pursuance to the same the applicants have deposited the
 amount. They have also paid the cost of registry to the complainant. It is
 argued that they have no knowledge of the previous sale-deed, therefore,
 they have executed the sale-deed and as such no fraud has been committed Signature Not Verified Signed by: TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN KHAN Signing time: 9/12/2024 5:34:24 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:45433

 3 MCRC-18463-2019
 by them. There was no intention of the applicants to illegally sold the said
 land to the complainant. It is further pointed out that this Court vide order
 dated 19.08.2019 has stayed further proceedings of the criminal case pending
 before the learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Punasa, District
 Khandwa observing that the entire consideration of Rs.7,50,000/- has been
 returned to the complainant coupled with the fact that prior to issuance of the
 sale-deed an advertisement was also issued in the local newspaper to which
 the Krishi Upaj Mandi, Khandwa has never raised any objection. It is
 submitted that it was a bonafide mistake which has been committed by them,
 therefore, they have prayed for quashment of the FIR as well as all
 consequential proceeding pending thereto. 3. Counsels appearing for the State as well as respondent No.2 have
 opposed the contentions and submitted that the land in question which has
 been sold vide registered sale-deed dated 29.12.1981 by the ancestors of the
 applicants to Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti, Khandwa, is not disputed. It cannot
 be accepted that the factum of selling the land by registered sale-deed was
 not in their knowledge. Merely the fact that they have published an
 information in the newspaper with respect to selling of the said land, no
 objections were submitted by any party, therefore, they sold the land. The
 fact remains that whether they were having any knowledge regarding the sale
 of land in question on 29.12.1981 is a disputed question of fact which
 requires evidence to be recorded. The same cannot be looked into at this
 stage. Merely the fact that the consideration amount has been returned back

 to the complainant does not absolve the applicants/accused from the act Signature Not Verified Signed by: TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN KHAN Signing time: 9/12/2024 5:34:24 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:45433

 4 MCRC-18463-2019
 which they have committed. The fact that there names were recorded in the
 revenue records cannot be the only ground to quash the entire proceedings. It
 is not disputed that the forefathers were owner of the land in question. The
 land belongs to their family and was sold out to Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti
 and again the said land has been sold to the respondent No.2 without
 informing her regarding the sale of land on earlier occasion. This clearly
 goes to show the mensrea on their part to play fraud and to cheat the
 respondent No.2 coupled with the fact that they have played fraud with the
 Government also. As they have illegally executed the second sale-deed with
 respect to the land in question, they committed fraud. Learned counsels for
 the respondents further submitted that interference in the cases of quashment
 of the FIR can be made in very rare cases as has been considered and held by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Haryana Vs. Bhajanlal
 reported in 1992 Suppl. SCC 335 and in the case of Niharika Infrastructure
 Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Maharashtra and Others reported in 2021 SCC OnLine
 315; and in the case State of Telangana v. Habib Abdullah Jeelani and Ors reported in 2017 (2) SCC 779. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Niharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) have been laid down certain
 guidelines regarding consideration of cases for quashment of FIR. In view of
 the aforesaid, he has prayed for dismissal of the petition. 4. Heard learned counsels for the parties and perused the record. 5. The record indicates that earlier father of the applicants No.1 to 7
 namely Shri B.L. Sharma has sold out the land in question vide registered
 sale-deed dated 29.12.1981 to Krishi Upaj Mandi. Thereafter, vide registered Signature Not Verified Signed by: TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN KHAN Signing time: 9/12/2024 5:34:24 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:45433

 5 MCRC-18463-2019
 sale-deed dated 18.05.2011 the applicants have sold the said land to
 respondent No.2 Smt. Kshama Agrawal. Whether the applicants are having
 any knowledge regarding the sale of land in question on 29.12.1981 is a
 disputed question of fact which requires evidence to be recorded. Merely the
 fact that the consideration amount has been returned back to the complainant
 does not absolve the applicants/accused from the act which they have
 committed. As such, the involvement of the applicants in commission of
 offences is clearly made out. At this stage, this Court cannot go into the
 minute details of the complaint and appreciate the evidence available on
 record. Prima-facie case is required to be seen at the time of registration of
 FIR. It is settled principle of law that FIR is not an encyclopedia and cannot
 contain all the detailed particulars of the crime. It is for the investigating
 agency to collect the material during investigation. 6. The law with respect to quashment of an F.I.R. is settled by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in large number of cases and recently in the case of Niharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra), especially in paragraph 80 certain
 guidelines have been framed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, which reads as
 under:- 7 MCRC-18463-2019
 whims or caprice; xii) The first information report is not an encyclopaedia which
 must disclose all facts and details relating to the offence
 reported. Therefore, when the investigation by the police is in
 progress, the court should not go into the merits of the
 allegations in the FIR. Police must be permitted to complete the
 investigation. It would be premature to pronounce the
 conclusion based on hazy facts that the complaint/FIR does not
 deserve to be investigated or that it amounts to abuse of process
 of law. After investigation, if the investigating officer finds that
 there is no substance in the application made by the
 complainant, the investigating officer may file an appropriate
 report/summary before the learned Magistrate which may be
 considered by the learned Magistrate in accordance with the
 known procedure; xiii) The power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is very wide, but
 conferment of wide power requires the court to be more
 cautious. It casts an onerous and more diligent duty on the
 court; xiv) However, at the same time, the court, if it thinks fit, regard
 being had to the parameters of quashing and the self-restraint
 imposed by law, more particularly the parameters laid down by this Court in the cases of R.P. Kapur (supra) and Bhajan Lal
 (supra), has the jurisdiction to quash the FIR/complaint; xv) When a prayer for quashing the FIR is made by the alleged
 accused and the court when it exercises the power under Section
 482 Cr.P.C., only has to consider whether the allegations in the
 FIR disclose commission of a cognizable offence or not. The
 court is not required to consider on merits whether or not the
 merits of the allegations make out a cognizable offence and the
 court has to permit the investigating agency/police to investigate
 the allegations in the FIR; xvi) The aforesaid parameters would be applicable and/or the
 aforesaid aspects are required to be considered by the High
 Court while passing an interim order in a quashing petition in
 exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and/or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. However, an interim
 order of stay of investigation during the pendency of the Signature Not Verified Signed by: TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN KHAN Signing time: 9/12/2024 5:34:24 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:45433

 8 MCRC-18463-2019
 quashing petition can be passed with circumspection. Such an
 interim order should not require to be passed routinely, casually
 and/or mechanically. Normally, when the investigation is in
 progress and the facts are hazy and the entire evidence/material
 is not before the High Court, the High Court should restrain
 itself from passing the interim order of not to arrest or ''no
 coercive steps to be adopted and the accused should be relegated
 to apply for anticipatory bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C. before
 the competent court. The High Court shall not and as such is not
 justified in passing the order of not to arrest and/or ''no coercive
 steps either during the investigation or till the investigation is
 completed and/or till the final report/charge sheet is filed under Section 173 Cr.P.C., while dismissing/disposing of the quashing
 petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and/or under Article 226 of
 the Constitution of India. xvii) Even in a case where the High Court is prima facie of the
 opinion that an exceptional case is made out for grant of interim
 stay of further investigation, after considering the broad
 parameters while exercising the powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and/or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
 referred to hereinabove, the High Court has to give brief reasons
 why such an interim order is warranted and/or is required to be
 passed so that it can demonstrate the application of mind by the
 Court and the higher forum can consider what was weighed with
 the High Court while passing such an interim order.
 xviii) Whenever an interim order is passed by the High Court of
 no coercive steps to be adopted within the aforesaid parameters,
 the High Court must clarify what does it mean by "no coercive
 steps to be adopted as the term" no coercive steps to be adopted
 can be said to be too vague and/or broad which can be
 misunderstood and/or misapplied." 7. After going through the guidelines framed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Niharika Infrastructure (supra) it is apparently clear that there is
 very limited scope of interference in a petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C.
 seeking quashment of the FIR. The High Court should be vigilant and should
 interfere in rare of rarest cases where prima-facie looking to the FIR no Signature Not Verified Signed by: TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN KHAN Signing time: 9/12/2024 5:34:24 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:45433

 9 MCRC-18463-2019
 offence is made out against the concern, but in the present case there is
 sufficient material collected by the prosecution against the
 accused/applicants. Under these circumstances, there cannot be any
 quashment of FIR and criminal proceedings against them. The grounds
 which are being raised are all matter of evidence that is to be establish before
 the trial Court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered in detailed the
 settled proposition of law in the landmark judgment in the case of Bhajanlal
 (supra). Therefore, in terms of settled proposition of law, the FIR and
 criminal proceedings against the applicants cannot be quashed. 8. The petition sans merit and is accordingly dismissed. No order as to
 cost. (VISHAL MISHRA)
 JUDGE

 THK Signature Not Verified Signed by: TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN KHAN Signing time: 9/12/2024 5:34:24 PM