SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] Rant against GST!
DATE: 2017-09-03
SCORE: 24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6xsjmc/np_rant_against_gst/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello fellow randians! 

This might be a long rant but I think it might be affecting a lot of us here. Earlier, i.e. pre GST most restaurants and online food ordering places had their menus adjusted to whatever taxes they paid earlier and had figures like 199/299/500 etc. inclusive of all taxes. The breakup between the service and the tax used to be shown in the bill and didn't matter much as the bill was what I knew I was paying. 

Now in comes GST! The grand scheme supposed to propel the Indian economy to nobody knows what heights. :| 

Most restaurants and online places here in Bangalore just shamelessly add GST to the final bill and the justification is that it's mandatory. Now, I know it's mandatory for them, but what about the food prices? Practically none have adjusted their prices to take out the tax component that used to be added before. Case in point here is freshmenu. Great food, great service everything but then this. Had been noticing this since some time but just can't keep it in anymore.

Not just food, malls etc. now show the price without the GST so you're in for a rude shock when the cashier tells you the final amount. Didn't used to be the same amount earlier either but now it's way more than what you'd have thought.

I used to admire the current government a lot. Liked the statesman Modi used to appear. Still respect him for the foreign policy that seems to be going in the right direction. But at the end of the day/month I do have to take a look at my wallet. And frankly, I've been let down. Can't be too enthusiastic about a government that's continually taking steps to rip me of my money. I pay all my taxes regularly and do so happily, knowing that it'll be used for the nation, but to what extent do I keep paying up? 

The previous government used to be in news for various scams and the level of corruption used to be mind-boggling. But sorry to say, it never directly affected me or most of my acquaintances. I'm in no way justifying them, but at least they let the middle class grow independently. This government seems to be hell bent on killing it. And it's all done legally, so no one can really say anything. 

I'll go on a limb to say that the middle class consumption was driving the economic growth in this country since the last 15 years and with the measures that the govt is taking they're sure to kill it by making the middle class more conservative with their spending. And honestly, I'm actually wishing that it goes out next election. Well aware there's no other option we can actually vote for, but so so hoping that one comes up.

End of rant. Sorry. Bye!