US-based facial recognition company ClearView won an appeal against the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) in the UK. On October 17 the First Tier Tribunal in the UK concluded that the ICO did not have the jurisdiction to issue such a notice because “although the processing undertaken by CV was related to the monitoring of data subjects’ behaviour in the United Kingdom, the processing is beyond the material scope of the GDPR [General Data Protection Regulation],” it said . The GDPR sets out a series of data protection principles for people/companies using personal data in the country.

Last year in May, the ICO fined Clearview AI £7,552,800 for using images of people in the UK, and elsewhere, that were collected from the web to create a global online database that could be used for facial recognition. It had also issued an enforcement notice against the company ordering the company to stop obtaining and using the personal data of UK residents that is publicly available on the internet and to delete the data of UK residents from its systems.

ClearView’s facial recognition system is built on a database constructed by scouring through the millions of publicly available images on the internet.  Once you feed a person’s image into it, it pulls out all matching faces from its database. In 2020, the governments of Australia and the UK opened a joint investigation into the company to look into ClearView’s personal data handling practices. This investigation resulted in the ICO issuing an enforcement notice against the company.

ClearView argued that it had not breached the UK’s data protection regulation and said that it was a foreign company providing its services to foreign clients, “ using foreign IP addresses, and in support of the public interest activities of foreign governments and government agencies.” It mentioned that it was used by criminal law enforcement and national security agencies, and their contractors, in support of the discharge of their respective criminal law enforcement and national security functions which are functions outside the material scope of Article 2(2)(a) GDPR and Article 3(2A) UK GDPR .

It said that it was not aware of its clients using the results provided by the Service in the context of behavioural monitoring. “Any behavioural information would be revealed in an ad hoc fashion and has already been published to the world on the internet. It may not be relevant to the investigation and is likely to be only one source of information used in the course of the client’s investigation,” it said.

The tribunal said that ClearView’s services are only used by law enforcement agencies and that the company has deactivated any remaining users that were not affiliated with government agencies. The tribunal agreed ClearView’s clients were monitoring the behaviour of those who appear in the images because they are seeking to identify facts about the individuals who appear in the images. The tribunal mentioned that while ClearView’s database may include images of UK subjects, it is less likely that an image of a UK data subject will be produced as a match where the clients are investigating alleged crimes/threats within their jurisdiction. Further, it held that the act of ClearView’s clients (law enforcement agencies) would fall outside the scope of the EU GDPR (which applied to the UK before it separated itself from the EU) and also to the UK GDPR.

ClearView’s facial recognition system has been a contentious topic not just in the UK but in other regions as well. Many have pointed out that the sheer size of ClearView’s database if breached, could lead to major issues because while other identifiers (such as social security numbers) could be replaced, biometrics once exposed can lead to identity theft. The GPDR is believed to be a model data protection regulation for other countries to follow. This case shows that even this regulation has some loopholes which can lead cause issues in protecting the data of both UK and EU citizens.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event