This is the final call to attend our briefing call today on the impact of the three criminal law bills on the digital ecosystem. Subscribers would have received an email invite to register. Non-subscribers can subscribe here to be eligible to attend.

The Indian government is looking to overhaul the criminal laws of the country by replacing the Indian Penal Code (IPC) of 1860, the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) of 1973, and the Indian Evidence Act of 1872 with new laws. But the proposed replacements encroach on digital rights of citizens including the right to freedom of speech and expression, the right to privacy, and the right against self-incrimination. The proposal to increase the adoption of technology in the legal system also comes with little to no safeguards.

In this MediaNama Briefing, we will explore how the three criminal law bills, the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, and the Bharatiya Sakshya Bill, impact the digital ecosystem and the digital rights of Indian citizens.

Title: Impact of Draft Criminal Laws on the Digital Ecosystem Date: November 30 (Thursday), 2023 Time: 3:30 PM IST

You’ll get access to this call, access to recordings of all our previous calls, around 35+ stories for each week, our exclusive weekly newsletter, and access to our archives of 26,000+ stories. Our monthly subscription is priced at Rs. 1000

Note: If you are a MediaNama subscriber, existing or new, access to briefings is included as part of your subscription. In case you haven’t received an invite, please email us at [email protected]

The session will begin at 3:30 PM IST with a presentation, followed by a Q&A session, in which attendees can ask questions and/or debate issues.

In case you know someone who might be interested, please share this post with them.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event