i received a mail from yahoo where he says i am the winner of the lottery which is orgnasied by the company but i know it is a fake mail i send all the details of the mail ok kindly take the action on that scam This is the first mail Attention winner This is to inform you that you have won a prize money of Five Hundred Thousand,Great Britain Pound Sterlings(500.000,00) for the month of September 2007 Lottery promotion which is organized by YAHOO/MSN LOTTERY INC WINDOWS LIVE YAHOO/MSN MICROSOFT WINDOWS, collects all the email addresses of the people that are active online, among the millions that subscribed to Yahoo and Hotmail we only select five people every Month as our winners through electronic balloting System without the winner applying,we congratulate you for being one of the people selected, You are to contact the events manager These are your identificationnumbers. Batch number.YM 09102XM Reff number.YM 35447XM Winning number.YM0988 However you will have to fill and submit this form to the events 1.Full name 2.Contact 3.Age 4.Telephone 5.Sex 6.Occupation 7.State 8.Country 9.Your Reference and Batch number at the top of this mail (CONTACT EVENTS MANAGER) Phone:[protected] Name:Mr.Nic Perry E-mail:mr.[protected]@yahoo.co.uk This is the second mail which i received CONGRATULATIONS!!! FROM YAHOO/MSN LOTTERY INC & WINDOWS LIVE ONLINE LOTTERY BOARD. Attention: Akhilesh Pandey , This is to formally inform you that after the verification process conducted on your duly completed Prize Verification Form, I wish to inform you that the Administrative department has just approved and refered your claim file to our affiliate company,Expert/World Express Courier Services Ltd., so that your Prize Winning Certificate and Cheques can be sent to you by postal mail but you shall bear the cost of courier delivery of your cheque and Prize Winning Certificate. So in the light of the above explanation, I wish to inform you that you are to immediately contact Expert/World Express Courier Services Ltd., with the following details below: CONTACT PERSON: Mr  David Mason COMPANY: Expert/World Express Courier Services Address: 12 princess road, M8 0PR Manchester, United Kingdom Tel +44 [protected] Direct E-mail: [protected]@hotmail.com It is necessary that you formally notify them  that you want the courier firm to deliver your cheque winnings along with the winnings certificate,and what it will cost you. You must pay for delivery cost of the cheque and documents before it will be delivered to you. If you are not willing and ready to make up to thier requirement do not bother to contact them of Expert/World Express Courier Services Ltd. Alternatively, you have to come personally to our office to physically process and recieve your prize. Note that all your personal information which you provided has been INDEX CODED INTO OUR CENTRAL AUTOMATED COMPUTER SYSTEM and it is required of you to provide a scan copy of any form of original identity license/passport, to this office while you contact the courier company for your parcel. So you're to provide them with the informations below: Parcel Colour: Brown Parcel Number: YLI6347UK Name on Parcel: Akhilesh Pandey. Note that it is necessary that you update us on developments with regards to the courier firm,be sure to give the address you want the parcel delivered to.For further explaination call us on +44 [protected]. However any correspondence mail to the courier company should be  copied to me for record purpose.Congratulations once more. Yours faithfully Mr Niv Perry Claims Agent Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)