1. Heard Shri V.P. Srivastava, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Shri Rahul Singh Rajpoot, learned counsel for the applicant; Shri Vipul Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the informant and learned A.G.A. 2. F.I.R has been lodged by informant, Amit Kumar, alleging that he is a correspondent along with Shailendra Mishra Sarila of daily "Kheda Shilajit". They had made viral an audio of Nagar Panchayat election and published a news item on the complaint of Sabhasads hence the chairman of Nagar Panchayat Sarila, Pawan Anuragi (applicant) on 27.10.2024 made phone calls at 06:20 p.m on the mobile phone of Ganga Prasad (clerk) and called the informant and his friend, Shailendra, to the home of Akash. They took them inside the house for the purpose of having talks. The informant and his companions were making video when light was turned off and thereafter they dragged them and beaten them on the gun point. They were held captive for three hours. The mobile phones of the informant and others was snatched. They were disrobbed and their video was made. Threats were extended to them of making video viral and of causing their murder also. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant has been implicated in this case because of political reasons. At the time of incident first informant and Shailendra Mishra were drunk and entered into the house of Akash Anuragi and abused him. Because they were drunk and creating ruckus people of locality beated them. Thereafter they have lodged the false F.I.R against the applicant and another co-accused. 4. Counsel for the informant, Sri Vipul Kumar Singh, has vehemently opposed the bail application and has submitted that the informant is journalist and he published a news against the Chairman, Nagar Panchayat Sarila. He was called to the place of Anurag Tyagi abducted, beated and confined. He has submitted that the accused have lodged the counterblast F.I.R registered as Case Crime No. 274 of 2024 wherein final report has already been submitted. The applicant forcibly administered liquor to them and made them nude and made their video to blackmail them. The applicant is a powerful and influencial person and enlarged on bail. He will misuse his liberty and cause further offence against the informant and others if released on bail. 5. This court finds that in the injury report of the informant, there is mention of alcoholic smell present in mouth of informant, flushed face, waddling gait. The possibility of entering into quarrel under the influence of liquor by the informant cannot be ruled out. The injury suffered by the injured do not appear to be grievous. The applicant is in jail since 07.11.2024 and has criminal history of three cases explained in paragraph 26 of the bail application. 6. On the other hand learned A.G.A has opposed the prayer for bail. 7. Keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence, complicity of the accused, submissions of the learned counsel for the parties noted above, finding force in the submissions made by the learned counsel for the applicant, larger mandate of the Article 21 of the Constitution of India, considering the dictum of Apex Court in the case of Dataram Singh Vs. State of U.P. and another reported in (2018) 3 SCC 22 and recent judgment dated 11.07.2022 of the Apex Court in the case of Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LawSuit (SC) 677 and considering 5-6 times overcrowding in jails over and above their capacity by the under trials and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 8. Let the applicant, Pawan Anuragi, involved in Case Crime No. 275 of 2024, under Sections- 191(2), 115(2), 127(2), 351(2), 133, 352, 140(4), 61(2) of Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita, Police Station- Jariya, District- Hamirpur, be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified. 9. In case, of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 10. Identity, status and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the court concerned before the bonds are accepted. Order Date :- 16.04.2025
 
Rohit