The Department of Financial Services (DFS) on April 30 held a workshop for Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs), Start-ups, and Fintech ecosystem partners in New Delhi. The workshop, organized in partnership with the Ministry of Finance, Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C), and the Ministry of Home Affairs, aimed to address key challenges in cybersecurity and tackling digital financial fraud. The workshop was in continuation of a previous meeting of Start-ups and Fintech companies with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, said the Finance Ministry in a press release.

Speaking at the workshop, DFS Secretary Dr. Vivek Joshi urged for greater collaboration among the government, regulator, public and private sector to harness the full potential of the Start-up and Fintech sector in India. While Fintech Associations presented the key challenges faced by the Fintech companies, the LEAs from the states shared their best practices on curbing cybercrime and financial fraud. It was emphasized that an indigenous transaction monitoring and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) system catering to Indian fraud and crime scenarios may be developed by the Fintech companies.

Additionally. India Cybercrime Coordination Centre highlighted its Citizen Financial Cyber Frauds Reporting and Management System (CFCFRMS) created to tackle the prevalence of digital fraud.

Heads of around 60 Fintech companies, 4 Fintech Associations, Police Departments of 23 states, CBI, ED, FIU-India, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Department of Telecommunications (DoT), Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA), Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest (CERSAI), National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), Business Correspondent Federation of India (BCFI), and India Cybercrime Coordination Centre etc.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event