% 20.04.2022 1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. I.A. 6081/2022 (for exemption) 2. Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. I.A. 6081/2022 is disposed of.
I.A. 6082/2022 (additional documents) 3. This is an application seeking leave to file additional documents under
the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . The Plaintiff, if it wishes to file
additional documents at a later stage, shall do so strictly as per the
provisions of the Commercial Courts Act . 4. Accordingly, I.A.6082/2022 is disposed of. I.A. 6083/2022 (advance service upon Defendants) 5. In view of the fact that the Plaintiff has sought ex parte ad-interim CS(COMM) 252/2022 Page 1 of 10 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:Devanshu Signing Date:22.04.2022 21:10:16 injunction, the exemption from advance service to Defendants is granted. 6. Accordingly, I.A. 6083/2022 is disposed of. CS(COMM) 252/2022 7. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 8. Issue summons in the suit and notice in the application to the
Defendants through all modes, upon filing of Process Fee. 9. The summons to the Defendants shall indicate that a written statement
to the plaint shall be positively filed within 30 days from date of receipt of
summons. Along with the written statement, the Defendants shall also file an
affidavit of admission/denial of the documents of the Plaintiff, without
which the written statement shall not be taken on record. 10. Liberty is given to the Plaintiff to file a replication within 15 days of
the receipt of the written statement(s). Along with the replication, if any,
filed by the Plaintiff, an affidavit of admission/denial of documents of the
Defendants, be filed by the Plaintiff, without which the replication shall not
be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any
documents, the same shall be sought and given within the timelines
prescribed under the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 11. List before the Joint Registrar for marking of exhibits on 15th July,
2022. It is made clear that any party unjustifiably denying documents would
be liable to be burdened with costs. 12. List before the Court on 25th August, 2022. I.A. 6080/2022 (for stay) 13. The Plaintiff- Just Dial Limited, has filed the present suit seeking
permanent injunction restraining data theft, violation of its trademark,
copyright, unfair competition, rendition of accounts and other reliefs. The CS(COMM) 252/2022 Page 2 of 10 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:Devanshu Signing Date:22.04.2022 21:10:16 business of the Plaintiff is that of directory services and listing services, also
popularly known as a search engine. It also provides various services
including Searching Service, Search Plus Services, JD Mart, JD Pay, JD
Omni, etc. The Plaintiff also has voice services available on '8888888888'
which is accessible 24 x 7 with multilingual support. 14. The services of the Plaintiff were started in 1996 and over the years
the business and the services provided by the Plaintiff have expanded. It has
a large number of clients who list their products and services on
www.justdial.com in order to extend their reach to customers. 15. The foundation of the Plaintiff's business is a database consisting of
more than 30 million listings and 142 million quarterly unique users across
the various platforms such as the web platform, mobile application, voice
platform, etc. Apart from the basic listings which are freely provided, the
Plaintiff also provides various paid services. There are stated to be more
than 4 lakhs paid campaigns as per the plaint. The Plaintiff collects data
related to various products and services from newspapers, visiting cards,
pamphlets, magazines, etc. by appointing data collectors, and 'join free
option' made available on the Just Dial portal. The validation of such data is
also carried out from time to time by Plaintiff's support team to keep the
database updated. 16. The Plaintiff uses the marks 'JUST DIAL', Justdial.com, the initials
'JD', and the following 'Jd logo': 17. According to the Plaintiff, the mark 'JUST DIAL' has become a well
known and famous mark on account of high quality of services, long user
since the year 1996 and extensive publicity & promotion. It is claimed in the
plaint that over the past four years alone, the Plaintiff has spent a sum of
Rs.247,00,00,000/- (two hundred fourty seven crores) on advertisements and
promotional activities. 18. A perusal of the record shows that the mark 'JUST DIAL' as also its
various formative marks including JD, JD List, JD Omni, Just Dial in logo
form are registered in various classes including 39, 9, 16. Some of the
trademark registrations of the Plaintiff are as under: 19. The Plaintiff- www.justdial.com is one of the most popular directory
services in India. Owing to the nature of services it provides, the Plaintiff
has a large quantum of data including images, address, information, texts, CS(COMM) 252/2022 Page 4 of 10 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:Devanshu Signing Date:22.04.2022 21:10:16 designs, graphics, animations and other materials on its website. The case of
the Plaintiff is that the compilation of data, images and content is a highly
valuable literary work protected under section 2(o) of the Copyright Act,
1957. The Plaintiff claims that the data, content and images, which are
displayed on Plaintiff's website and stored in its database is the intellectual
property of the Plaintiff. 20. The case of the Plaintiff is that Defendant No.1, has verbatim lifted
thousands of listings, source data code, corporate numbers, and other
proprietary data of the Plaintiff. Over 5000 listings on the Defendants'
website are stated to be containing reference to the Plaintiff's content
delivery network path ('jdmagicbox') in their source code data. The said
data is stated to have been scraped from the Plaintiff's portal and thereafter
published on Defendant's website www.nicelocal.in. 21. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Senior Counsel appearing for the Plaintiff
submits that the Defendant No.1- M/s Local Search Solutions Private
Limited is a company which runs a local search platform/website by the
name www.nicelocal.in. The said website provides local search related
services to its users. Both the shareholders of the Defendant No.1 are located
abroad. One of the Directors of Defendant No.1, is located in Delhi and one
is located outside India. Defendant No.2-Mr. Rajiv Sharma is the Director of
Defendant No.1 who is residing in Delhi. 22. The Plaintiff realized a few months ago that Defendant No.1 was
operating its website www.nicelocal.in by copying large volumes of data
from the Plaintiff's website. It is submitted by referring to various
illustrations that the data has been lifted en bloc from Plaintiff's website as
is clear from the use of the 'Jd logo' watermark, appearance of identical CS(COMM) 252/2022 Page 5 of 10 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:Devanshu Signing Date:22.04.2022 21:10:16 source codes, dummy listings, phone numbers, and complete customer
review from Plaintiff's website on Defendant's website. 23. He submits that upon realising the large scale violation of Plaintiff's
rights being made by the Defendant Nos. 1 and 2, the Plaintiff made a trap
transaction by posing as a customer. It was realised that the Defendants were
collecting money through Credit Card without issuing invoices. The
Defendants also placed the Credit Card of the Plaintiff used for the
transaction on auto debit mode resulting in amounts being deducted from the
Plaintiff's credit card in the month of January, 2022 without any order being
placed by the customer at all. It is submitted that large sums of money from
gullible customers may have been taken in this manner. The Plaintiff then
filed a criminal complaint with the Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida) Police
Station and the investigation is stated to be underway. An FIR bearing no.
11/2022 at Police Station Noida Sector 20 has been registered in relation to
the said complaint. 24. The court has heard the ld. Sr. Counsel for the Plaintiff and perused
the record. Various illustrations of copying of Plaintiff's data by the
Defendants have been shown to the Court which are as under: 25. A perusal of the above instances and various other documents and
printouts placed on record shows that the Defendants have unabashedly
copied the data of the Plaintiff. This is a cause of concern to the Plaintiff
considering the large amount of data relating to their clients and customers
is available on their website. The exact modus operandi of the Defendants is
not yet known to the Plaintiff in as much as the investigation in the criminal
complaint is still underway. 26. After perusing the manner in which the Defendant Nos.1 and 2 are
collecting payments, it is clear that there are a large number of innocent CS(COMM) 252/2022 Page 7 of 10 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:Devanshu Signing Date:22.04.2022 21:10:16 persons who may be duped by the Defendants who continue to operate the
website www.nicelocal.in. 27. In view of the circumstances of the case and the interest of the general
public as well, the Plaintiff has made out a prima facie case for grant of an
ex parte ad-interim injunction. The balance of convenience lies in the favour
of the Plaintiff. If the relief sought is not granted, irreparable loss would be
caused as it would not only jeopardize the Plaintiff's rights but also the
rights of various clients, customers of the Plaintiff as also the general public
who may make payments to avail the services of Defendant Nos. 1 and 2. 28. Accordingly, till the next date of hearing,
 i. The Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 are restrained from providing or
 advertising any goods or services on their website
 www.nicelocal.in or utilizing the data belonging to the
 Plaintiff in any manner till the next date of hearing.
 i. The Defendant nos. 1 and 2 are also restrained from
 collecting any payments from any customers through the
 platform www.nicelocal.in. iii. Defendant Nos. 3 and 4 - Ministry of Electronics and
 Information Technology (MeitY), and Department of
 Telecommunications (DoT) are directed to issue instructions
 within 48 hours to all the ISPs to block the website
 www.nicelocal.in and to suspend the services of the said
 website. The said ISPs shall take immediate steps to block the
 website www.nicelocal.in. iv. The domain name Registrar of the Defendant's website- 101domain, Inc. upon receiving communication from the
 Plaintiff's counsel along with the copy of this order, shall
 block the domain name www.nicelocal.in and maintain status
 quo. No transfer of the said domain shall be permitted till
 further orders of this Court. v. The hosting company of the website www.nicelocal.in upon
 receiving communication from the Plaintiff's counsel shall
 retain all the data relating to www.nicelocal.in on its servers.
 It shall also block any access to said data by either the
 Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 or by any third party. The details of
 the said web hosting company shall also be placed by the
 Plaintiff on record by means of an affidavit within one week.
 vi. The Defendants shall file an affidavit on record disclosing
 the total amount of payment which has been received by
 them through the platform www.nicelocal.in. vii. The SHO of Police Station- Noida Sector-20,
 Commissionerate Gautam Budh Nagar shall submit a status
 report as to the status of the investigation conducted in FIR
 No. 11/2022 dated 4th January, 2022. viii. The present order shall be communicated to the Police
 Station, Sector-20, Gautam Budh Nagar through the ld.
 Standing Counsel (Criminal), Mr. Sanjay Lao [Mobile No.
 9818166809]. 29. Mr. Kirtiman Singh, ld. Counsel accepts notice on behalf of
Defendant nos. 3 and 4. The present order shall be communicated to the
MeitY and DoT for immediate compliance by the ld. standing counsel. 30. Dasti service to Defendant No.2. 31. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 CPC be made within one week. 32. Reply to the present application be filed within four weeks from the
service of the present order along with the paper book. 33. List before the Court on 25th August, 2022. 34. The digitally signed copy of this order, duly uploaded on the official
website of the Delhi High Court, www.delhihighcourt.nic.in, shall be treated
as the certified copy of the order for the purpose of ensuring compliance. No
physical copy of orders shall be insisted by any authority/entity or litigant. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J.