The Enforcement Directorate (ED) confiscated cryptocurrencies worth approximately Rs 1646 crore during search operations against the Bitconnect cryptocurrency fraud scheme, revealed a press release from the agency on February 15. The agency also seized Rs 13.5 lakh in cash, a Lexus car and several digital devices, all under the provisions of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.

The fraudsters essentially operated a cryptocurrency-based Ponzi scheme, where they took money from investors promising high returns that never materialised. Following FIRs at the CID Crime Police Station in Surat, the ED launched an investigation that uncovered a global securities fraud scheme that operated between November 2016 and January 2018.

The agency discovered that BitConnect’s founder created a worldwide network of promoters who attracted investors by promising extremely high returns through a supposed “volatility software trading bot.” They claimed this bot would generate monthly returns up to 40% and displayed fabricated daily returns of approximately 1% (around 3,700% annually) on their website.

In reality, Bitconnect did not use investor funds for trading. Instead, the accused transferred the investors’ money and Bitcoin to digital wallets under their control for personal gain. The funds were then moved through multiple crypto wallets to obscure their origin and destination, the release noted.

Despite the accused using the Dark Web to make transactions untraceable, the ED successfully identified the relevant wallets through extensive tracking and ground intelligence. This led them to locate the physical premises containing digital devices storing these cryptocurrencies.

Bitconnect is a notorious cryptocurrency fraud scheme that has been under the scanner of authorities in multiple countries for several years now. In 2022, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the market regulator of the United States, indicted BitConnect’s Indian founder Satish Kumbhani and alleged that the scheme obtained as much as $2.4 billion from investors before abruptly shutting his platform down in a fashion similar to Ponzi schemes.

The ED had previously attached properties worth Rs 489 crore approximately in the case, said the press release .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event