There is currently no proposal to regulate financial influencers (or finfluencers), but citizens must exercise a “very strong sense of caution” against advice made by them, India’s Finance Minister Nirmal Sitharamaa remarked at the Thinkers Forum held in Tumakuru on April 23.

In November last year, it was reported that the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), which falls under the Ministry of Finance, is formulating guidelines for financial influencers to curb unsolicited financial advice on social media, especially stock tips, but from the Minister’s comments, it appears that nothing of this sort is on the horizon. The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, however, in January this year released broad guidelines that apply to all types of influencers, not just financial influencers.

Why does this matter: The growing number of finfluencers is a good thing when the advice they push improves financial literacy and helps people make better financial choices, but unfortunately that is not always the case. There are some finfluencers who ignorantly peddle bad financial advice due to a lack of expertise, harming those at the receiving end unintentionally. Even worse, there are a few who knowingly promote false or misleading info to make illegal gains, as we saw in the YouTube pump and dump scheme that SEBI recently cracked down on in March.

“At this stage, I’m not having any proposal before me for regulating them. But yes, a word of caution is important. If there are three or four people giving us very objective, good advice, there are seven others out of 10 who are probably driven by some other considerations.” — Nirmala Sitharaman

Finance Ministry, MeitY, and RBI working on clamping down on Ponzi apps: “There are also apps which are coming out and reaching out to people saying, we can do this, we can do that, your money will fetch you this much. Many of these are Ponzi apps on which we are working with the Ministry concerned, MeitY, and with the Reserve Bank, and clamping down on them like never before so that we don’t get those Ponzi apps taking away hard-earned money,” Sitharaman informed.

Citizens must double-check and do due diligence: “Social influencers and financial influencers are all out there, but a very strong sense of caution is required in each one of us to make sure that we do double checking, counter-checking, talking with people. Don’t go as a flock into something because somebody else has gone and you also go without doing your due diligence. We have to be careful. It’s our hard-worked money. You earned it. You save it. You protect it,” Sitharaman remarked.

Is self-regulation on the horizon? In a recent meeting between the Department of Consumer Affairs and influencers, the idea to form a self-regulatory organization for influencer marketing companies and a creator or influencer recognition program was mooted, but it is still early stages to know if and when these ideas will materialize.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event