- The Criminal Petition has been filed under Section 482 of the Bharatiya

Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for brevity 'the BNSS') by the Petitioners/

Accused Nos.2 to 4 for granting of pre-arrest bail in connection with Crime

No.119 of 2025 of Panjani Police Station, Chittoor District, registered for the

alleged offences punishable under Sections 316(2), 318(4), 351(2), 61(2) and

111(2) (b) read with 3(5) of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023. 2. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant is giving

dish connections and the accused No.1 discussed withhim and also informed

that he would give internet connection and they invested Rs.2,00,000/- each

and the accused No.1 opened the account in the name of defacto complainant

in Indus Ind Bank, Palamaner and accused No.1 took the ATM card, check

book and also connected the said account in to the cell phone number of

accused No.2 and later he failed to show the accounts. The further version of

the prosecution is that the accused No.1's wife, brother-in-law, relative

Sukesh, and friend Chandrasekhar formed into a group and they lured the

people in and around the Rayalpeta on the false promise of providing jobs

etc., and collected the amounts and cheated the people. 3. Heard Mr. Siva Nagarjuna Sidhadapu, learned counsel for the

Petitioners and Mr. K.Sandeep learned Assistant Public Prosecutor. Perused

the record. 4. Learned counsel would further submit that the Petitioners are innocents

of the alleged offence and have been falsely implicated by the police. It is

further submitted that except Section 111(2) (b) of BNS the remaining all

offences are punishable with imprisonment for less than seven (7) years. It is

further contended that Section 111 (2) (b) of BNS is not attracted, as there is

no legally admissible material to constitute an offence of organised crime and

the petitioners are ready to abide any conditions that may be imposed by this

Court, and it is urged to grant pre-arrest bail to the petitioners. 5. Per contra, learned Assistant Public Prosecutor vehemently opposed

the grant of pre-arrest bail to the petitioners, submitting that the investigation

is still underway and several material witnesses remain to be examined. It is

contended that if the petitioners are released on pre-arrest bail, there is a

strong likelihood that they may abscond, thereby hampering the ongoing

investigation and evading the process of law. In view of the foregoing, it is

urged that the petition be dismissed. 6. In view of the above submissions, this Court proceeds to examine the

applicability of Section 111 of BNS against the Petitioners. Section 111 of

BNS reads as under: 7. To bring an offence within the ambit of organised crime, there must be

legally admissible prima facie material to show continuing unlawful activity as

defined under Section 111 of BNS. The evidence must be gathered first, to

make out a prima facie case within the scope of Section 111 of BNS. Without

legally admissible accusations, allegations, or evidence, the Police cannot

arrest a suspect to collect evidence against him to bring the case into the fold

of Section 111 of BNS. 8. A plain reading of Section 111 of BNS indicates that the following

essential ingredients must be satisfied: (i) commission of offences enumerated

under the provision; (ii) the Accused being a member of an organised crime

syndicate; (iii) commission of the offence as a member of, or on behalf of, such 6 syndicate; (iv) more than one charge-sheet having been filed against the

Accused within the preceding ten years for cognizable offences punishable

with imprisonment of three years or more, and cognizance taken thereon; (v)

commission of the crime by use of violence, threat, intimidation, coercion or

other unlawful means. 9. In the present case, as admitted by the learned Assistant Public

Prosecutor, the Petitioners have no criminal antecedents. The Police have

registered the present crime including the offence under Section 111(2)(b) of

BNS without any legally admissible material to attract the said provision. The

Police, based on the complaint given by the complainant, straight away

registered the present crime for the offences under Sections 316(2), 318(4),

351(2), 61(2) read with 3(5) of BNS including the offence under Section

111(2)(b) BNS, without there being any admissible material or evidence

against the Accused to attract the offence under Section 111 (2)(b) of BNS.

Except the offence under Section 111(2)(b) of BNS, the remaining offences,

registered in the present crime, are punishable with imprisonment below seven

years. 10. In this regard, it is apposite to mention the Hon'ble Apex Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar1 , wherein a detailed guidelines were issued

at Para Nos.11 and 12, for arresting a person, which are being reproduced

herein below:- 11.Our endeavor in this judgment is to ensure that police
 officers do not arrest accused unnecessarily and Magistrate do 1 (2014) 8 SCC 273 7 not authorize detention casually and mechanically. In order to
ensure what we have observed above, we give the following
direction: 12.We hasten to add that the directions aforesaid shall not only
apply to the cases under Section 498-A of the I.P.C. or Section
4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, the case in hand, but also such
cases where offence is punishable with imprisonment for a term 8 which may be less than seven years or which may extend to
 seven years; whether with or without fine. 11. The similar view is also reiterated by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Md.

Asfak Alam v. the State of Jharkhand2 , which also reiterated the guidelines laid down in the case of Arnesh Kumar. 12. In the light of the law laid down in the case of Arnesh Kumar and Md.

Asfak Alam, the investigating officer is under legal obligation to proceed in

accordance with law, but he shall follow the procedure prescribed under

Section 35(3) of BNS/ Section 41(A) of Cr.P.C. The petitioners are obligated to

render their fullest cooperation in the ongoing investigation. 13. In the result, the Criminal Petition is disposed of directing the

Investigating Officer to comply with Section 35(3) of BNS/ Section 41-A of

Cr.P.C., and to strictly follow the directions issued in the cases of Arnesh

Kumar and MD. Asfak Alam. __________________________________
 DR.VENKATA JYOTHIRMAI PRATAPA, J
Date: 21.01.2026
SDP 2 (2023) 8 SCC 632 9 78 THE HONOURABLE DR JUSTICE VENKATA JYOTHIRMAI PRATAPA

 CRIMINAL PETITION NO: 12930 OF 2025

 21.01.2026

SDP