G. George Paracken, Member(J) 
	
	In this Original Application, the Applicant has challenged the Memorandum No.C-14011/DKC/2009/LC/11007.11 dated 21.12.2009 proposing to hold an enquiry against him under Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. According to the statement of Articles of Charge enclosed along with the said Memorandum, the Applicant, while posted as Assistant Accounts Officer (AAO for short) under the Border Fencing Division-II (BFD-II for short), CPWD, New Delhi from 17.10.2005 to 06.06.2007 appears to have committed the following irregularities:- 81,375
+4,000
68,197 2. 4/06 83,318
84,197 3. 5/06 95,696
+10,089
87,988 4. 6/06 98,696
94,528 5. 7/06 92,732
64,447 6. 8/06 71,590
+8,832
80,422 7. 9/06 89,770
63,844 8. 10/06 1,12,116
97,717 9. 11/06 88,432
+9,872
80,023 10. 12/06 1,16,614
1,13,563 11. 01/07 1,11,733
1,04,108

Total
10,74,805
9,38,903

Difference Rs.1,35,962/- It is also revealed that the said cashier was compiling monthly account of the division himself, which was duty of Shri D.K. Chahal being divisional accountant as per para 4.2.2 of CPWA Code. It is, therefore, established that the said Shri D.K. Chahal despite being divisional accountant failed to detect and point out withdrawal of excess cash and the bogus or fraudulent entries in the divisional cash book to Executive Engineer. Therefore, he failed to perform his duties of Divisional Accountant as per para 4.2.2, 4.2.3 of CPWA code. Therefore, despite being divisional accountant the said Shri D.K. Chahal, AAO failed to detect and point out the withdrawal of excess cash and the bogus or fraudulent entries in the divisional cash book to Executive Engineer in contravention of para 4.2.2, 4.2.3 of CPW A code. By committing above lapses, the said Shri D.K. Chahal, AAO Exhibited lack of devotion to duty thereby contravening Rules 3(1) (ii) of CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964. 2.	As desired by the Disciplinary Authority, the Applicant made a representation against the aforesaid Memorandum on 23.03.2010 wherein he has stated that as per para 4.2.5 (d) of CPWD code Divisional Accountant should affix his initial after the last entry of the days transaction. As far as daily closing of the cash book was concerned, he stated as under:- He has also stated that as per Para 44 of CPWD Code, the Divisional Officer (DO for short) as primary disbursing officer of the division is responsible not only for the financial transactions of the whole division but also for the maintenance of the accounts of the transactions correctly. The role of the Divisional Accountant (DA for short) in the division was to assist the DO. Inter alia, the DO was also required to see that the DA is carrying out the duties regularly and punctually. The said position indirectly absolves the DA from rule 4.2.5 (d) & DO is fully responsible for correctness and maintenance of financial transaction of the division. As regards drawl of cash, he has stated it was from the back the self-cheque is issued by D.O. and the cash is handled by the cashier. In such transaction, D.A. was never taken into confidence nor the process of obtaining cash routed through D.A. Thus, the precheck of drawl of cash by Self cheque was not possible and the legacy of the prevailing practice never let him poke his nose in this process. As per para 44 of CPWD Code, DO should take necessary steps for obtaining cash for the work under his control, keep accounts and submit them punctually to P.A.O. under the rules for the time being in force. Secondly, at the time of distribution of cash to AEs in the form of Temporary Advance, DA never appeared in picture in any sort of frame. As the Register of Temp. Advance/Imprest never routed through any of AAO of BFD-II, New Delhi since its inception. All those facts reveals that DDOs were never interested in consultation with DA in the matter of drawing of self-cheque and its distribution in the form of Temp. Advance. Thirdly, when AE submitted his Temp. Advance A/c, it was not submitted to the DA for checking and passing. DDO used to pass the Temporary advance bill himself duly submitted by his cashier on the behalf of sub-divisional office, which is contradictory to all prevailing rules for submission of sub division Temp. Advance account in the division office. Fourthly, vouchers can be checked at the time of passing the bill and not at the time of passing the bill and not at the time of compilation of monthly account. It was not feasible as well as not desirable under any codal provisions in any book to check each and every paid vouchers, which were already duly passed by the DDO. Thus, for drawl of cash, DDO is wholly responsible and DA cannot be held responsible for a transaction which was neither routed through him nor was he consulted. Further, it is the discretionary power of the DDO that as to how much cash he wants for running the division without any consent of the 
DA. Further, he has submitted that the DA has no power to interfere in the working of Executive Engineer of the Division. The role of DA is only to assist the DO whenever his assistance is sought by him. He has also stated that the DA cannot have any control over his superior (DO) in the matter of excess drawl of cash. The DO overlooked him by not routing the transaction and even the adjustment of temporary advances. On the other hand, the DO used to pass the adjustment bills of temporary advance himself for reasons best known to him. 3.	As regards the allegation that the Applicant had failed to detect the manipulated entries, he submitted that it was he who has actually blew the lid off the scam. He pointed out about the manipulated entries not only pertaining to his period but also of the period pertaining to his predecessors from the inspected records/accounts duly checked by the Internal Audit as well as statutory audit. In this connection, he has referred to his reply dated 20.06.2007 to the Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Urban Development, New Delhi in which he has mentioned that he has inspected the Cash Book of 2005 and his findings showed that Cashier Sunil Mandotia was involved in malpractice of fitting bogus entries in cash book which were shown under Temporary Advance of AE-I and thus bogus entries amounted to Rs.40,000/- to Rs.50,000/- or sometimes even more duly certified by the DDO. He has further stated that in his meeting with the then Controller of Accounts, he pointed out that he had suspicion of this practice which was going on for the last many years and, therefore, he had requested the competent authority to have further necessary investigation through the vigilance. Further, according to him, for approaching the higher authorities, he pointed out the malpractices to the Executive Engineer himself and showed him number of cash books obtained from cashier pertaining to last many years duly certified by him and his predecessor with a request to report this matter to the Chief Engineer (BFD-II) along with CCA, M/o Urban Development. However, nothing was done in the matter. Therefore, he had to approach the competent authority, vide his letter dated 20.06.2007, addressed to the Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Urban Development. Further, when the Executive Engineer came to know about his complaint, he transferred him with the consent of his Superintending Engineer dated 29.06.2007 without any order from the office of the Chief Controller of Accounts which was contradictory to the prevailing rules of transfer and posting of a DA in the Division. Thus, maliciousness of the Executive Engineer was manifest and he was fully aware of all the facts and manipulation of fraudulent entries by his cashier in the Temporary Imprest of AE-I. As the said scam became possible only because the concerned AEs were not preparing their subsidiary cash chest account themselves which was their primary responsibility for proper handling of cash which they received from division office. Again, instead of that they left this job to the Cashier of the division, who was not the employee of the sub division because as an Assistant Engineer he got his job done by an employee of other office for the reasons best known to them. He objected to this mal practices on number of occasions but without any fruitful result from the EE BFD-II. 4.	He has also stated that he was the whistle blower in the swindling of month-wise temporary misappropriation of Government money for the period March, 2006 to January, 2007. The aforesaid fact was brought to the notice of the Executive Engineer for necessary compliance by support of vouchers, if any, vide his note dated 19.02.2007. But even after a lapse of more than 4 months, the Executive Engineer was unable to make the difference good with the support of vouchers. Therefore, he has stated that it was totally unjustifiable to accuse him that he failed to detect manipulated entries. He has, therefore, requested to withdraw the aforesaid charge memo. 5.	However, the Disciplinary Authority decided to go ahead with the enquiry and appointed the Enquiry Officer and Presenting Officer vide separate orders dated 21.05.2010. The Enquiry Officer, thereafter, held a preliminary hearing on 01.07.2010. Applicant appeared before the Enquiry Officer on the said date and submitted a list of additional documents which he required for effective defence other than the listed documents. He has, therefore, requested the Enquiry Officer to arrange those documents before the regular hearing is held on the next date. He has also submitted that he will submit list of defence witnesses when he gets copies of the individual statements mentioned in the list of witnesses. The Enquiry Officer in his daily order sheet for the proceedings held on 01.07.2010 has also observed that a list of documents required by the Applicant was handed over to the Presenting Officer so as to obtain those documents from the custodian, subject to their availability. In the said order sheet it was mentioned that the next date of hearing will be communicated to all concerned in due course. However, according to the Applicant, the Enquiry Officer never held any hearing thereafter. In that background he has to approach this Tribunal by filing this Original Application on 27.09.2012 on the following grounds:- 6.	Learned counsel for the Applicant has also submitted that the Memorandum of Charge was issued to the Applicant without even the knowledge of his Disciplinary Authority. In this regard he has referred to information provided to him under Right to Information Act, 2005 wherein it has been stated that draft charge was prepared by CPWD and the Respondents office has only issued the same. 7.	A reply was filed on behalf of the Respondent No.3, namely, Chief Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Urban Development, New Delhi. They have stated that the Applicant had received the aforesaid charge sheet on 30.12.2009 and he had given reply to the same on 23.03.2010. Thereafter, he was relived from the Office of the Chief Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Urban Development on 16.08.2010 with a direction to report for duty to the Office of the Chief Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Industry, New Delhi. Therefore, the case was transferred to the Ministry of Industry for further action and they have to proceed in the matter, within the time frame as per codal provision. 8.	As regards the facts of the case are concerned, they have stated that despite having been posted as Divisional Accountant w.e.f. 07.10.2005 in BFD-II, the Applicant failed to detect and point out withdrawal of excess cash and bogus or fraudulent entries in the divisional cash book of the Executive Engineer during the period from March, 2006 to January, 2007. Hence, he failed to perform his duties as Divisional Accountant as per para 4.2.2. and 4.2.3 of the CPWD Code. They have also stated that vide letter dated 30.09.2009, CPWD (DGW), Vigilance Unit had forwarded the draft charge along with annexures and they issued the same to the Applicant. 9.	Further, according to the Respondents, the Courts and Tribunals have no jurisdiction to interfere in the administrative decisions unless it is found to be illogical or suffers from procedural impropriety or was shocking to the conscience of the Court in the sense that it was in defiance of logic or moral standards. In this regard they have relied upon the judgment of the Apex Court in Chairman and Managing Director, United Commercial Bank and Others Vs. P.C. Kakkar 2003 ( 4) SCC 364, B.C. Chaturvedi Vs. U.O.I. 1995 (6) SCC 749, Rameshwar Prasad Vs. Union of India 2006 (2) SCC 1 and State Bank of Hyderabad and Another Vs. V.P. Kote Rao 2008 (3) SCT 153. 10.	We have heard the learned counsel for the Applicant Shri M.K. Bhardwaj, learned counsel for Respondents No.1 and 2 Shri Rajeev Kumar and Shri Himanshu Upadhyay for Ms. Ruby Sharma for Respondents No.3. We have also perused the departmental file made available by the Respondents. It is seen that the alleged incident based on which Memorandum of Charge was issued to the Applicant on 21.12.2009 has occurred way back on 17.10.2005 to 06.06.2007. While we do not undermine the importance that every officer is required to perform his duties diligently as per the job requirement but making an allegation that one has failed to perform his duties after more than 2= years has no justification. Further, we also do not find any justification as to why the enquiry could not be completed for the last over 4 years when the Respondents themselves have no case that the Applicant was responsible for the delay in any manner. It is seen that the charge memo was issued to the Applicant on 21.12.2009. He promptly made representation against it on 23.03.2010 itself. Instead of holding an enquiry in the matter immediately, the Applicant was transferred even without the consent of the Chief Controller of Accounts. In any case there was no explanation as to why there was a delay of nearly 2= years for the Respondents to issue the charge sheet against the Applicant and as to why the enquiry proceedings have not moved an inch forward from 01.07.2010, for the last over 4 years. Taking disciplinary action against an employee is a serious decision and the Disciplinary Authority has to take it with all the seriousness it deserves. One cannot keep an officer under cloud for several years without any reason. As held by the Apex Court in Chaman Lal Goyal (supra), it would not be fair to the delinquent officer if the disciplinary proceedings are initiated after a considerable lapse of time as the delay makes the task of proving of the charge difficult and it is also not in the interest of the administration. Unexplained delay get the proceedings vitiated. 11.	Further, the charge against the Applicant was that he failed to detect and point out the withdrawal of excess cash and the bogus and fraudulent entries in the divisional cash book to Executive Engineer and, therefore, he failed to perform his duties of Divisional Accountant as per CPWD Code. However, the records show a totally different picture. The Applicant himself, vide his letter dated 20.06.2007, brought to the notice of the Controller of Accounts, M/o Urban Development that large scale misappropriation of money was being done by the Executive Engineer BFD-II. He expressed his strong suspicion that not only the cashier but a group of officials were involved in misusing the Government money. The irregularities pointed out by him were as under:- However, a counter complaint was made by the SE(P&A) BFZ-II stating that the Applicant had failed to discharge the duties with full devotion. The Controller of Accounts has, in fact considered both the complaints and recommended strong action against the officials in the BFD-II Division. The concerned Cashier, Assistant Engineer and the Executive Engineer were also transferred from the said Division apprehending tampering of the records. But considering the fact that the Applicant was the whistle blower, no action was recommended against him. The decisions taken by the Controller of Accounts in this regard are the following:- 12.	Thereafter, a special audit team was appointed to carry out the inspection vide its report dated 08.08.2007 and it was found that money was embezzled in the division on large scale from 01.01.1998 to 30.06.2007. It was also observed that Shri Sunil Kumar, Cashier of the Division embezzled money to the tune of Rs.1,35,962/- during the period from 01.03.2006 to 31.01.2007 and the matter was being investigated by the vigilance team of the CPWD. The Applicant had also requested for his transfer from the said Division as the working atmosphere there was very hostile as the Assistant Engineer, Shri Pramod Kumar threatened him for life. He had also reported the matter to the Chief Engineer. But when the officials of BFD-II Division came to know about the said complaint, the Superintending Engineer (P&A) BF-2 made a counter complaint against the Applicant on 24.06.2007 stating that he failed to discharge his duties with full devotion. However, the Controller of Accounts ordered enquiry only against the erring officials of the CPWD observing that the aforesaid letter was clearly an attempt for a cover up by the Divisional Officer when it was clear by the documents on record that the irregularities pointed out were actually brought to light only by the Applicant and none else. 13.	Further, it is seen that it is the Respondents own admission that it is not the Disciplinary Authority of the Applicant, i.e., the Controller of Accounts has decided to initiate the disciplinary proceedings against the Applicant. They have stated that the Article of Charge was prepared by the CPWD and they have simply issued it. As held by the Apex Court in the case of Union of India vs. B.V. Gopinath 2014(1) SCC 351, not only the approval of the Disciplinary Authority is required to initiate disciplinary proceedings against an employee but it also has to approve charges drawn by the authority, it is other than the disciplinary authority. The relevant part of the said judgment is as under:- 14.	In the above facts and circumstances, we are of the considered view that the impugned Memorandum dated 21.12.2009 proposing to hold enquiry against the Applicant under Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 is motivated, mala fide and the Article of Charge levelled against him are contrary to the facts. It is nothing but a retaliatory action to harass the Applicant for the complaint made by him against the CPWD officials working in BFD-II. We, therefore, quash and set aside the aforesaid Memorandum dated 21.12.2009 declare that the Article of Charge enclosed with the aforesaid Memorandum is non-est. Consequently, the Respondents shall pass appropriate orders withdrawing the aforesaid Memorandum and dropping the charge, within two months from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. 15.	There shall be no order as to costs.