R. V. EASWAR, J.: Packwell Manufacturers (Delhi) Pvt. Ltd.(R-1); (ii) Mrs. Rajni Gupta,

W/o. Late Mr. B.C. Gupta (R-2) and (iii) Ms. Gudiya Gupta, D/o. Late

Mr. B.C. Gupta (R-3). 2. The appeal came to be filed in the following circumstances.

Respondent No.1 is a company incorporated on 13.03.1970 with an

authorised share capital of `15 lakhs. The appellant and respondent

No.2 were the promoter directors of the respondent-company. M/s.

Vinod Sanjeev Bindal & Co. Chartgred Accountants, were appointed

the statutory auditors of respondent No.1 in 1980‟s. It would appear

that the appellant was removed from the Board of Directors on

20.06.2009 under Section 283(1)(g) of the Act; earlier on 18.11.2008,

respondent No.3 had been appointed as director of respondent No.1,

allegedly without any meeting of the Board of Directors. Since

differences between the appellant on the one hand and respondent No.2

and respondent No.3 on the other had cropped up, a petition under Section 397 and 398 of the Act was filed by the appellant before the

CLB against the present respondents. The same was withdrawn on the

ground that there were some technical errors and after rectifying them,

it was filed again. CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 2 of 29 3. On 25.01.2010, the company petition came up for hearing before

the CLB and status quo was granted. 4. On 17.02.2011 an application was filed by respondent No.1

before the Regional Director (NR), Ministry of Corporate Affairs,

seeking removal of the statutory auditors M/s. Vinod Sanjeev Bindal &

Co. The application was filed under Section 224(7) of the Act which

says that the statutory auditors may be removed from office, before the

expiry of the term for which they were appointed, by the company in

general meeting after obtaining the previous approval of the Central

Government in that behalf. The statutory auditors were appointed from

the conclusion of the annual general meeting of respondent No.1 held

in the year 2008 till the conclusion of the next annual general meeting

for audit of the books of accounts for the financial year ended

31.03.2009. 5. On 13.12.2012, an order was passed by the Regional Director on

the application for removal of the statutory auditors. This order was

passed after considering the objections of the Chartered Accountants

submitted through their letters and after giving them an opportunity of

personal hearing. After considering the averments in the application

setting out the reasons for seeking removal and the submissions of the CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 3 of 29 Chartered Accountants the Regional Director arrived at the following

findings: - 6. However, the Regional Director did not render any decision on

the question of removal of the auditors, but held as follows: - 7. After the aforesaid order was passed by the Regional Director,

respondent No.3 filed an application before the CLB in Company

Application No.156/2013 [in CO. PET. No.1(ND)/2010]. The prayers

made in this application were (i) for passing directions for removal of

the statutory auditors and for directing that the decision of the CLB

shall be final and binding in this regard and no further approval from

any other authority shall be required; (ii) for passing an order

confirming the appointment of M/s. K.N.A. Associates, Chartered

Accountants, as the statutory auditors of the company for the financial

year 2009-2010 and (iii) for passing such other orders or directions

which the CLB may deem fit and proper. It needs to be noted that

though the application for removal of the statutory auditors was filed

before the Regional Director by the company (respondent No.1), the

application before the CLB in Company Application No.156/2013 was

filed not by the company but by respondent No.3. In the affidavit

accompanying the application before the CLB, respondent No.3 CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 5 of 29 affirmed that she was competent to swear and file the affidavit on her

own behalf and on behalf of the other respondents i.e. the company as

well as Mrs. Rajni Gupta (respondent No.2). 8. On 18.04.2013 the company application was taken up for

hearing for the first time by the CLB and on this date, the following

order was passed: - 9. It is noteworthy that in the application before the CLB praying

for orders for removal of the statutory auditors M/s. Vinod Sanjeev

Bindal & Co. and for the appointment of M/s. K.N.A. Associates as

statutory auditors for the financial year 2009-2010, a request was made CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 6 of 29 on behalf of the applicant before the CLB that the CLB may hold that

it has no jurisdiction to adjudicate on the removal of the statutory

auditor which power remains with the Central Government under Section 224(7) of the Act. 10. The application was taken up for final hearing on 26.04.2013 by

the CLB. After setting out the facts and the decision of the Regional

Director, the application was disposed of by the CLB in the following

manner: - 11. The present appeal has been filed against the aforesaid order

passed by the CLB on 26.04.2013 in Company Application

No.156/2013. 12. The contention of the appellant mainly is that the appeal raises

the question of the power of the CLB to pass orders under Section 402 of the Act and whether, having regard to the pendency of Co. Pet.

No.1(ND)/2010, the CLB was justified in law in not exercising the said

powers and in directing the applicant to move a fresh application

before the Regional Director under Section 224(7) . It is further

submitted that having held that respondent No.3 did not have the

authority from respondent No.1 to file the application, whether the

CLB was right in law in proceeding to entertain and dispose of the

application. It is contended that these are important questions of law

which arise for consideration and my attention in this behalf was drawn

to para 2(a) of the present appeal. It is further contended on behalf of CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 8 of 29 the appellant that the question of removal or continuance of the

statutory auditors M/s. Vinod Sanjeev Bindal & Co. was inextricably

inter-twined with the proceedings pending before the CLB under Sections 397 and 398 of the Act, a position which was accepted even

by the Regional Director and, therefore, it was only the CLB which

had the power to deal with the application filed by respondent No.1

before the Regional Director, as rightly held by him. My attention was

drawn to the findings of the Regional Director, particularly sub-

paragraph (iv) of para 4 of his order in which he has observed that the

issue of removal of the auditors is under consideration before the CLB

in the pending petition under Sections 397 and 398 and, therefore, it

was the CLB, with its vast powers under Section 402 , which can

regulate the affairs of the company including the question of removal

of the statutory auditors. It is pointed out that no steps were taken by

the company (respondent No.1), which filed the application before the

Regional Director, against the order passed by the Regional Director

on 13.12.2012. The application filed before the CLB in Company

Application No.156/2013 was not filed by the company, but was filed

by a person (respondent No.3) who was admittedly not authorised by

the company to do so. CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 9 of 29 13. On behalf of the respondent, its learned counsel who appeard on

advance notice, submitted that respondent No.3 as one of the majority

shareholders was aggrieved by the order of the Regional Director

passed on 13.12.2012 and therefore could validly move an application

before the CLB and for this purpose there was no need to obtain any

authorisation from the company. It was submitted that the statutory

auditors are removed only by the majority shareholder in the annual

general meeting and not by the company and, therefore, if there is any

impediment in such removal, the majority shareholders is the person

who is aggrieved and who is entitled to agitate the matter before the

higher forum. It was submitted in this behalf that though Section

224(7) refers to the removal of the statutory auditors by the company,

the company acts only through human agency, which in this case is the

majority shareholders, of which respondent No.3 is one and if this right

to remove the statutory auditors is affected in any manner, it is open to

the individual shareholder, as part of the majority shareholders, to seek

the removal of the statutory auditors before the CLB, even if the

company does not take any step in this behalf. It is also argued that the

appellant herein cannot be said to be aggrieved by the order passed by

the CLB and that whatever objections he has, can be ventilated before CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 10 of 29 the Regional Director who stands seized of the matter, pursuant to the

directions given in the impugned order. 14. In the rejoinder, the learned counsel for the appellant drew my

attention to paragraph 24 of the application filed before the CLB by

respondent No.3 in which it was stated that since the Regional Director

had waived his power to grant approval, it was not for the company

(respondent No.1) to approach the office of the Regional Director

again. Respondent No.3 further stated in the said paragraph that it is

open to the CLB to decide the matter and in fact requested the CLB to

decide the matter, which decision would be final and binding. The

submission is that having exhorted the CLB into rendering a decision,

respondent No.3 later changed her mind and requested the CLB not to

exercise the jurisdiction but to restore the matter for fresh decision by

the Regional Director, on steps being taken by the applicant. It was

further pointed out that even though it is true that it is only the

shareholders who exercise the right of removing the statutory auditors,

that is only an act of the company since a company has to necessarily

act through human agency; it is submitted that this principle, however,

cannot obliterate the corporate personality conferred upon the company CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 11 of 29 and the act of removal of the statutory auditors is an act of the

company, and not that of the majority shareholders. 15. As regards the question as to how the appellant is aggrieved by

the impugned order, it is submitted on behalf of the appellant that

during the financial year 2008-09 the appellant was undisputedly a

director of respondent No.1 and any attempt to remove the statutory

auditors of the accounts for the said financial year would act to the

prejudice of the rights of the appellant and, therefore, the appellant was

rightly aggrieved by the impugned order. It was also pointed out that it

was on 24.08.2009 that the respondents and their relatives were

allotted 73,170 equity shares which is an act of oppression. It is

claimed that there are no minutes of the Board meeting showing this

allotment. 16. The first question that falls for decision is whether there was a

valid application before the CLB so as to enable it to pass the

impugned order. Section 224(7) of the Act enables the company to

approach the Central Government for obtaining the previous approval

for removal of the auditors. Since it is the company which appoints the

auditors, it is the company which can remove them, subject to the prior

approval of the Central Government. In the present case, it was the CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 12 of 29 company which made an application to the Central Government (and

rightly so) for removal of M/s. Vinod Sanjeev Bindal and Co.,

Chartered Accountants. The Central Government acting through the

Regional Director (NR), Ministry of Corporate Affairs, opined that it

would not be proper to issue any order on the application of the

company since the petition under Section 397 and 398 was pending

consideration before the CLB. Accordingly no decision was taken on

the application of the company. However, it was observed by him that

the applicant-company may consider approaching the CLB for

necessary directions, if it so desired. The company‟s application

before the RD was not kept pending, but was disposed of. The

company was advised to apply again, after obtaining the directions

from the CLB in the matter. Thus it was the company which was given

the liberty to approach the CLB. What, however, happened was that

the company did not move any application before the CLB; it was

respondent No.3 who filed the application before the CLB in Company

Application No.156/2013. She was not authorised by the company to

file the application and this fact is not disputed by the respondents.

The CLB was also aware of the same and has said so in paragraph 6 of CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 13 of 29 the impugned order. Nevertheless it chose to dispose of the application

in the manner it did. 17. The consequence of the company not approaching the CLB and

not taking any steps against the decision of the Regional Director can

only be that the order of the Regional Director passed on 13.12.2012

became final. Since respondent No.3 was not authorised by the

company to file any application on its behalf before the CLB pursuant

to the order passed by the Regional Director, there was no valid

application by the company before the CLB. There was nothing for the

CLB to deal with or dispose of. However, as observed by the Regional

Director in paragraph 4(iv) of his order, the petition under Section 397 and 398 was pending before the CLB in which the issue of removal of

the auditor was also under consideration. This is also borne out by the

pleadings before the CLB in the said petition. If that is so, it would

have been open to the CLB, while disposing of the petition under Section 397 / 398 , to also deal with the question of the removal of the

auditor by virtue of its powers under Section 402 of the Act. The same

result, that is, that it was for the CLB which was seized of the petition

under Section 397 / 398 of the Companies Act to decide the question of

removal of the auditors would ensue even if it is assumed that there CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 14 of 29 was a valid application before the CLB seeking permission for the

removal of the auditors. Therefore, in both situations, that is to say,

where it is assumed that there was a valid application before the CLB

or where it is held that there was no valid application by the company

before the CLB, the consequence would be the same, viz., that the

CLB in exercise of its powers under Section 402 can take a decision in

the pending petition under Section 397-398, regarding the removal of

the auditors. 18. But then the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that it

is the shareholders of a company who appoint the auditors and under Section 224(7) of the Act it is they who are entitled to remove him and

not the company. The contention is opposed to the language of the

provision which says that subject to the proviso to sub-section (5), any

auditor appointed under the Section may be removed from office

before the expiry of his term "only by the company in general

meeting", after obtaining the previous approval of the Central

Government in that behalf. The auditors can be removed only by the

company but the power has to be exercised in the general meeting of

the shareholders. There is always a distinction between the company

and its shareholders and this is the effect of registration of a company, CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 15 of 29 under Section 34 of the Act. Upon registration the company is

constituted as a distinct and independent person in law and is endowed

with special rights and privileges. It is in point of law a person distinct

from its members. This well-settled principle emanates from the

judgment of the House of Lords in the case of Salomon vs. Salomon &

Co. Ltd., (1897) Appeal Cases 22. There it was observed that a

company is at law a different person altogether from the subscribers to

the memorandum; it is not in law the agent of the subscribers or trustee

for them. In Tata Engineering and Locomotive Company Ltd. vs.

State of Bihar , AIR 1965 SC 40, it was held that a company being

distinct from its board of directors, they cannot seek to enforce a right

in their individual capacity which belongs to the company. Therefore,

appointment of the auditors or their removal is an act of the company

as a distinct and separate entity and cannot be said to be an act of the

shareholders merely because the company exercises such a right in the

general meeting. Counsel for the respondent would, however, contend

that such a distinction between the company and its shareholders

cannot be made in the present case since the order of the Regional

Director passed on 13.12.2012 affected the rights of the shareholder as

shareholder and, therefore, respondent No.3 was entitled to file an CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 16 of 29 application before the CLB, even though the company did not do so.

This contention runs counter to the settled principle. If regard is had to

the basic principle that the company is distinct from its shareholders, it

should follow that the cause of the company cannot be canvassed by a

shareholder acting individually and not on behalf of the company. It

has been found as a fact, which is not disputed before me, that

respondent No.3 was not authorised by the company to file the

application before the CLB; if she had been specifically authorised to

do so, then perhaps it would have been possible to argue that such

filing was an act of the company. The principle that a company, even

though a distinct corporate personality, can act only through human

agency is applicable where the company professes to act itself and this

principle cannot be pressed into service to support an argument that all

acts done by an individual shareholder are those of the company. The

principle of piercing the corporate veil cannot also be invoked since

that principle is normally invoked only to reveal the true identity of a

company and to expose those persons who seek to use the cloak of

corporate personality to hide and shun such exposure. Traditionally,

right from the days of the United States vs. Milwaukee Refrigerator

Transit Company, (1905) 142 F, where it was observed by Sanborn, J. CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 17 of 29 that "where the notion of legal entity is used to defeat public

convenience, justify wrong, protect fraud or defend crime, the law will

disregard the corporate entity and treat it as an association of

persons", the principle has been invoked only by the law to expose a

fraud or a wrong. According to Gower, piercing or lifting the

corporate veil is adopted when it is found that the principle of

corporate personality is too flagrantly opposed to justice, convenience

or the interests of the Revenue. No such situation arises in the present

case. It appears that the rule has never been invoked in any case

where a shareholder seeks to justify his act by saying that he and the

company are one and the same and when he acted, it amounted to the

company itself acting. It would be dangerous to accept such a

sweeping proposition. In other words where the law requires a

company to act or do a particular thing, it would be no answer for a

shareholder, who acts independently of the company, to invoke the

doctrine of piercing the corporate veil and contend that his act was

actually the act of the company. This position was recognised and

invoked by Badar Durrez Ahmed, J. (as he then was) of this court in Prem Lata Bhatia vs. Union of India & Ors. , (2004) 58 CL 217 =

(2003) 108 DLT 346, and the following observations are pertinent: - CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 18 of 29 In the light of the above, I am unable to look at the act of respondent

No.3 in filing an application before the CLB as an act of the company

itself under any principle or authority. 19. It is true that the Regional Director, being the delegatee of the

Central Government, is empowered to accord previous approval under Section 224(7) for the removal of the auditors on an application being

made to him by the company. However, clause (g) of Section 402 of

the Act which deals with the powers of the CLB vis-a-vis an

application under Section 397 or 398, confers wide powers upon the

CLB while dealing with the application. It states that the CLB may

pass any order under Section 397 or 398 providing for any matter,

other than those specified in clauses (a) to (f), for which in its opinion

it is just and equitable that provision should be made. The powers

under clause (g) are very wide and while exercising them the only

condition that needs to be satisfied is that there should be a nexus

between the order that may be passed under the aforesaid clause and

the object sought to be achieved by Sections 397 and 398 . In Shanti CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 20 of 29 Prasad Jain vs. Union of India , 1978 Bom. LR 778, Tulzapurkar, J.

(as he then was) speaking for the Division Bench of the Bombay High

Court dealt with the powers of the Court under Section 402 of the Act

in extenso. In the opinion of the Division Bench, there are certain

provisions in the Companies Act which deal with corporate

management of a company through directors in normal circumstances,

while Chapter VI of the Act which includes Sections 397 to 409 deals

with emergent situations or extraordinary circumstances where the

normal corporate management has failed and has run into oppression

or mis-management and, therefore, steps are required to be taken to

prevent oppression and mis-management in the conduct of the

company‟s affairs. It was held that the powers of the Court under

Chapter VI cannot be curtailed by reading them subject to the

provisions contained under the other chapters of the Act dealing with

normal corporate management. The Court contrasted the provisions of

Part-A of Chapter VI with those of Part-B. Whereas Part-A dealt with

the powers of the Court (now Company Law Board), Part-B dealt with

the powers of the Central Government to prevent oppression or mis-

management. The Court noticed that while dealing with the similar

emergent situations or extraordinary circumstances, it has placed CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 21 of 29 restrictions or limitations on the powers of the Government acting

under Sections 408 and 409 , but no restrictions or limitations of any

kind have been prescribed on the powers of the Court. It was observed

that if the legislature had desired to place any limitations on the powers

of the Court (now CLB) acting under Section 402 , it could have stated

so, but did not. Moreover, the Court held that the topics or subjects

dealt with by Sections 397 and 398 are such that it becomes impossible

to read any restriction or limitation on the powers of the Court acting

under Section 402 . The power of the Court under Section 397 is to

make such order as it thinks fit, with a view to bringing an end to the

matters complained of. It was held that having regard to the very wide

nature of the power conferred on the Court and the object which is

sought to be achieved through the exercise of such power, the only

limitation that could be impliedly read on the exercise of that power

would be that a nexus must exist between the order that may be passed

thereunder and the object sought to be achieved by Sections 397 and 398. The Court also noticed from Section 398 read with Section 402 that if the Court is required to provide for the regulation of the conduct

of the company‟s affairs in future because of oppression or mis-

management that has taken place in the course of normal corporate CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 22 of 29 management, the Court must have the power to supplant the entire

corporate management (or corporate mis-management) by resorting to

non-corporate management which may take the form of appointing an

administrator or special officer or a committee of advisors to be in

charge of the affairs of the company. It was eventually held by the

Division Bench of the Bombay High Court that the powers of the

Court under Section 402 of the Act cannot obviously have any regard

to or be subject to the other provisions dealing with the corporate form

of management. 20. The decision of the Bombay High Court (supra) highlights the

position that Section 402 comes into operation under extraordinary

circumstances and, therefore, the other provisions of the Act, which

apply under normal circumstances, cannot curtail the powers of the

Court exercised under that Section. 21. In Cosmosteel P. Ltd. and Ors. vs. Jai Ram Das Gupta and

Ors., AIR 1978 SC 375 = (1978) 48 COMPANY CASES 312, a three

Judge Bench of the Supreme Court, speaking through D.A. Desai, J.

was confronted with the question whether the direction of the Court

under Section 402 of the Act for purchase of its own shares by a

company, which involves a reduction in share capital, can be CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 23 of 29 implemented only by following the procedure prescribed by Sections

100 to 104 of the Act. The Supreme Court held that Sections 397 and 402 appear to constitute a code by themselves for granting relief to the

oppressed minority shareholders and for granting appropriate relief, the

Court has been conferred with a power of widest amplitude, including

the lifting of the ban imposed on the company by Section 77 from

purchasing its own shares. When the Court exercised this power under Section 402 by directing the company to reduce its share capital by

purchasing its own shares, albeit contrary to Section 77 of the Act, it

cannot be expected that the power should be made subject to the

company following the procedure laid down in Sections 100 to 104 .

According to the Supreme Court if such a limitation on the Court‟s

power is to be imposed, it would amount to holding that the statutory

power of the Supreme Court depends, for its exercise, upon the vote of

the members of the company. That would lead to an unacceptable

situation where the Court‟s direction could be defeated by the majority

of the shareholders voting against the reduction of the share capital.

This would make a mockery of the entire situation and would defeat

the relief granted by the Court to the minority shareholders against acts

of oppression and mis-management of the majority shareholders. Such CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 24 of 29 a situation, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, cannot be

countenanced. 22. The power of the Court under Section 402 can even extend to

directing something which is not provided in the Act. For instance it

has been held that the Court can direct the introduction of a clause in

the articles of association which runs contrary to Section 255 of the

Act ( Shanti Prasad Jain vs. Union of India ) (supra). In Motion

Pictures Association in re, 1984 (55) COMPANY CASES 375, a

Division Bench of this Court directed the alteration of the articles of

association of the company and modified an article capable of

preventing a duly elected representative body from functioning as

such. In Pearson Education INC vs. Prentice Hall India (P) Ltd. and

Ors , 134 (2006) DLT 450, a learned Single Judge of this Court (A.K.

Sikri, J., as he then was) held that the jurisdiction of the CLB under Sections 397 / 398 and 402 is much wider and a direction can be given

even contrary to the provisions of the articles of association; it even

has the right to terminate, set-aside or modify any contractual

arrangement between the company and any person. It was further

observed that the just and equitable principle embodied in clause (g) of Section 402 is an equitable supplement to the common law of the CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 25 of 29 company which is to be found in its memorandum and articles of

association. This judgment has been approvingly cited by the Supreme

Court in M.S.D.C. Radha Ramanan vs. M.S.D. Chandrasekara and

Anr. , (2008) 6 SCC 750. 23. In Sangramsingh P. Gaekwad vs. Shantadevi P. Gaekwad ,

(2005) 11 SCC 314 the Supreme Court held that the Court while

exercising its discretion is not bound by the terms contained in Section

402 of the Companies Act if in a particular fact situation any further

relief or reliefs, as the Court may deem fit and proper, are warranted. 24. Having regard to the settled legal position as above, I have no

hesitation in holding that notwithstanding that Section 224(7) of the

Act names the Central Government as the authority competent to

accord previous approval for the removal of the auditors on the

application of the company, it would still be open to the Company Law

Board, to accord or refuse such approval while dealing with a petition

under Section 397 / 398 of the Act provided the exercise of such a

power has a nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the

ultimate order passed under Section 402 . In the case before me the

pleadings before the Company Law Board show that the removal of the CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 26 of 29 auditors was specifically raised. The relief claimed in paragraph 35(h)

of the petition before the CLB is as follows: - 25. The argument on behalf of the respondent that it is open to the

appellant to appear before the Regional Director and raise all

objections to the change of the auditors appears to me to be no

solution; it is only an argument of convenience. The argument is

without merit for two reasons. First, it is a question of exercise of the

wide powers under Section 402 by the Company Law Board. If the

CLB could examine the question of change of auditors - whether it is

an act of oppression or mis-management - while dealing with the

petition under Section 397 and 398 , I do not think it would be proper to

relegate the appellant to the Regional Director; if the CLB can validly

exercise a power, it should be permitted, - nay, it is bound - to do so.

Secondly, it would be wholly inappropriate to permit two different

authorities to deal with what essentially is a single grievance. If, as

held by the CLB, the Regional Director is to deal with the question of

removal of the auditors, it would result in this situation, namely, that a CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 27 of 29 part of the grievance in the petition under Section 397-398 would be

dealt with by the RD, while the other parts of the same grievance

would be dealt with by the CLB. This would result in a very

anomalous situation. It is well-settled that oppression and mis-

management, within the meaning of Sections 397-398, are not

constituted by distinct and separate acts, but are constituted by a single

continuous act and it is not permissible to dissect the conduct of the

alleged oppressor into separate acts of oppression or mis-management. In Shanti Prasad Jain vs. Kalinga Tubes Ltd. , (1965) 35 Company

Cases 351, the Supreme Court, after a review of leading authorities

expressed the opinion that in a petition under Section 397 , in addition

to showing that there is just and equitable cause for winding-up the

company, the petitioner must further show "that the conduct of the

majority shareholders was oppressive to the minority as members and

this requires that events have to be considered not in isolation but as

part of a consecutive story. There must be continuous acts on the

part of the majority shareholders, continuing up to the date of

petition, showing that the affairs of the company were being

conducted in a manner oppressive to some part of the members".

This is also the view in Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Edition, CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 28 of 29 Volume 7, Para 1011. Logically it would be proper that the entire

petition under Sections 397 and 398 is dealt with by the CLB. 26. For the aforesaid reasons the impugned order passed by the CLB

is set-aside and the appeal is allowed. The CLB will now deal with the

question of removal of the auditors while disposing of the appellant‟s

petition under Sections 397 and 398 of the Companies Act. (R.V. EASWAR)
 JUDGE
AUGUST 26, 2013
hs CO. A. (SB) No.35/2013 Page 29 of 29