These Rectification Petitions have been filed under Section 57 of the

 Trade Marks Act, 1999 (in short 'Act'), seeking rectification in the register of

 the 2nd Respondent, by cancelling the registered mark of the 1st Respondent.

 I. Case of the Petitioner: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023 6. The grievance of the Petitioner is that the 1st Respondent started

 using the very same LEGO mark for its confectionary products, LEGO

 CUTEHEART and LEGO COFFYBOND, clearly infringing the Petitioner’s

 mark. The Petitioner has already filed a suit in O.S.No.105 of 2003 before

 the City Civil Court at Secunderabad and the Court held that the Petitioner

 enjoys a transborder reputation and the LEGO mark is a well known mark.

 The 1st Respondent has preferred an Appeal before the Telangana High

 Court and the same is pending. Hence, the Rectification Petitions have been

 filed. II. Case of the 1st Respondent: 7. The 1st Respondent states that it is dealing with manufacturing and

 marketing confectionary goods under their trade name, LEO FOODS and in

 the course of their business, they have adopted LEGO as their trademark on

 31.12.2000. According to the 1st Respondent, LEGO has been coined and

 invented by them by combining the expression LE which means take in

 Hindi and GO meaning ‘to leave’. It is the specific case of the 1 st Respondent 4/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 that they have not copied the mark of the Petitioner and that they even

 conducted a search/survey including the database of the Trade Marks

 Registry and did not find any person, manufacturer or trader using LEGO in

 respect of confectionaries. 8. The further case of the 1st Respondent is that they have adopted

 LEGO as their flagship brand in various adaptations and they are honest and

 bona fide adopters of the mark LEGO. They further contend that the

 injunction granted by the Civil Court has been suspended in appeal and that

 the suit was only laid in respect of the word, LEGO and not the mark

 impugned in the present proceedings, which are composite label marks. 9 The 1st Respondent further states that the Petitioner enjoys a

 registration only in Class 28, whereas the 1 st Respondent is totally

 unconnected and the impugned marks are registered under Class 30.

 Further, the Petitioner is engaged only in the trade relating to toys and the 1 st

 Respondent’s business is in the food industry, totally alien to the line of

 business of the Petitioner. 10. The 1st Respondent also contends that the Petitioner’s mark has 5/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 not been declared as ‘well known’ as contemplated under Section 11(6) of

 the Trade marks Act, 1999 (in short 'Act') as well as envisaged under Section 2(1)(zg) of the Act. It is also stated that the marks should be taken

 as a whole and if done so, there is no possibility of confusion or deception.

 The Petitioners are also not aggrieved in any manner and consequently, the

 petitions are liable to be dismissed. 11. The learned counsel representing the parties informed the Court

 that they do not intend to lead any evidence and that they would only be

 arguing the petitions. III. Issues : 12. I have heard Mr.Sathish Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel for

 Mr.Rajkumar Jhabak, learned counsel for the Petitioner and 6/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 Mr.K.Mohankumar, learned counsel for the 1st respondent and

 Mr.S.Janarthanam, learned Senior Panel Central Government Standing

 Counsel for the 2nd respondent in OP No.190 of 2023 and Mr.K.Subbu

 Ranga Bharathi, learned Central Government Standing Counsel for the 2nd

 Respondent in O.P.No.191 of 2023. IV. Submissions of the learned counsel on either side: 13. Mr.Sathish Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 Petitioner would, besides putting forth the facts narrated in the rectification

 petitions in a nutshell, would submit that the target audience of both the

 Petitioner’s as well as 1st Respondent is the same, viz, children and therefore

 a very likely chance of they being confused by the two marks. 14. He would further elaborate his submissions contending that the 1 st

 Respondent has not challenged the claim of the Petitioner to being a prior

 user of the mark and he would also bring it to my notice that pending the

 above proceedings, the Petitioner’s marks have also been declared as well-

 known and it would relate back to the date of the petition and consequently 7/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 entitle the Petitioner to rectification as prayed for. He would further state

 that fraud and deceit is also writ large on the conduct of the 1st Respondent

 by the mere fact that they claim to have searched in the Registry only for

 traders in the field of confectionaries, using LEGO. 15. He would further contend that when the 1st respondent has

 adopted a near identical mark, wholly incorporating the Petitioner’s prior,

 distinctive, registered and well-known LEGO mark, the Petitioner is bound

 to succeed. Turning to Section 11(2) of the Act, the learned Senior Counsel

 would state that the Petitioner is entitled to protection across all classes of

 goods and services. In this regard he would place reliance on Bata India

 Limited v. Pyare Lal and Company, Meerut City and others , reported in AIR 1985 All 242 and Daimler Benz Aktiegesselschaft and another v. Hydo

 Hindustan , reported in 1993 SCC OnLine Del 605. 16. The learned Senior Counsel would also place reliance on the

 following decisions:- 17. Per contra, the learned counsel for the 1 st Respondent would

 submit that on the date of filing of the Rectification Petitions, the Petitioner’s

 mark had admittedly not been declared as well-known and therefore, the

 arguments of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Petitioner based

 on the presumption that the Petitioner’s mark enjoys the status of a well-

 known mark has no merit. 18. The learned counsel would further contend that the 1st

 Respondent's adoption has been properly explained and the 1st Respondent

 sells its flagship brand sweets in every nook and corner and there is no

 occasion for any confusion or deception as alleged by the Petitioner. He

 would further state that the Petitioner, by its own documents, has shown

 sales only in major cities and thus, has not shown extensive use in order to

 claim any protection under the statute. 9/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023 19. The learned counsel for the 1st Respondent would also contend

 that the trade channels of the petitioner and the 1 st Respondent are entirely

 different and relying on Vishnudas Trading as Vishnudas Kishendas v.

 Vazir Sultan Tobacco Company Limited , reported in 1996 PTC (16), the

 learned counsel would fortify his contentions that even in the same class of

 goods there is a possibility of both marks co-existing. The learned counsel

 would also highlight the aspect of the cost of the respective products stating

 that the Petitioner’s products are very expensive and sold only in major cities

 whereas the 1st respondent’s goods are sold for a mere Rs.5 to Rs.10/- in

 even small shops and therefore, there is no likelihood of any confusion

 arising in the minds of the customers. 20. The learned Counsel for the 1st Respondent would also contend

 that the intention of the legislature in classifying the goods and services into

 different Classes was only to give statutory right and it did not mean that a

 person is given a right in rem once registration of the mark is accorded.

 V. Discussion and Decision: 21.The issues being related are taken up together and adjudicated 10/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 hereunder. The Petitioner’s prior use of the mark, LEGO is not disputed by

 the 1st Respondent. The bone of contention of the 1 st Respondent is that on

 the date of the filing of the petitions, the Petitioner did not enjoy the status of

 a well-known mark in India and hence cannot seek to cut across a different

 class altogether and seek rectification. In this regard, it is to be seen that the

 Petitioner’s mark, no doubt was not declared as a well-known mark as on

 the date of the filing of the rectification petitions. However, on such date, the

 Petitioner’s status of a well-known mark had already been declared across

 various other jurisdictions, all over the world. 22. It is a larger question as to whether the status of well-known’

 trade mark accorded to the Petitioner’s mark pending the above petitions

 would relate back to the date of filing of the petitions. Admittedly, the

 Petitioner enjoys this status in many other countries already and admittedly,

 the said status has been conferred on the Petitioner, pending these OPs. 23. Section 2(zg) of the Act, defines ‘well-known trade mark’ as being

 in relation to any goods or services, means a mark which has become so to

 the substantial segment of the public which uses such goods or receives such 11/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 services that the use of such mark in relation to other goods or services

 would be likely to be taken as indicating a connection in the course of trade

 or rendering of services between those goods or services and a person using

 the mark in relation to the first-mentioned goods or services. 24. Section 11(2) of the Act sets out a relative ground of refusal of

 registration viz., a trade mark which, a) is identical with or similar to an earlier trade mark; and b) is to be registered for goods or services which are not similar to
 those for which the earlier trade mark is registered in the name of a different
 proprietor,
 shall not be registered if or to the extent the earlier trade mark is a well-
 known trade mark in India and the use of the later mark without due cause
 would take unfair advantage of or be detrimental to the distinctive character
 or repute of the earlier trade mark. The Explanation to Section 11 states that for the purposes of Section 11 ,

 earlier trade mark means- (a) a registered trade mark or an application under section 18 bearing an earlier date of filing or an international registration referred to
 in section 36E or convention application referred to in section 154 which
 has a date of application earlier than that of the trade mark in question,
 taking account, where appropriate, of the priorities claimed in respect of the
 trade marks;] (b) a trade mark which, on the date of the application for registration
 of the trade mark in question, or where appropriate, of the priority claimed
 in respect of the application, was entitled to protection as a well-known trade
 mark. 12/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023 25. This Explanation clearly clarifies the statutory/legal position that

 an earlier trade mark would also include a trade mark which was entitled to

 protection as a well-known mark even on the date of the Application for

 registration. This exemplifies the position that where the earlier trade mark

 was entitled to protection as a well-known mark even on the date of the

 Application for registration, then sub-section (2)(b) to Section 11 would kick

 in and the earlier trade mark would be entitled to protection even if the

 goods are not similar, as in the present case. 26. Thus, on an over all circumspection of the facts of the present

 cases, the petitioner is clearly entitled to the benefits of Section 11(2) of the

 Act. Of course, the test would be whether the goods which are not similar to

 that of the Petitioner’s is likely to cause confusion and detriment to the

 distinctive character or reputation of the Petitioner’s mark. Even though this

 may be normally available only to a case falling under Section 11(1) , in view

 of Section 11(3)(c) read with the Explanation to Section 11 , as discussed

 herein above, if the later mark is used without due cause and is detrimental

 to the distinctive character or reputation of the earlier trade mark, then even 13/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 an action of passing off being available to the proprietor of the earlier trade

 mark would be a relative ground for refusal of registration of a later mark. 27. Though as rightly contended by the learned counsel for the 1 st

 Respondent, the trade channels of the Petitioner and the 1st Respondent are

 totally different, it is not to be forgotten that both the goods of the Petitioner

 and the 1st Respondent cater to young minds, as in children across ages. Let

 us now examine the rival marks: 28. The above clearly shows that there is an almost identical adoption

 of the Petitioner’s mark LEGO, including the style and to some extent even

 the colours. There is no satisfactory explanation as to such a close identity to

 the Petitioner’s mark. Even, the explanation sought to be offered by the 1st

 Respondent for adopting LEGO appears to be only on second thoughts and

 not acceptable. The over all reproduction of the Petitioner’s mark clearly

 suggests a dishonest intention on the part of the 1st Respondent. More so, it

 is so because of the statement in the counter that the 1 st Respondent made a

 thorough search in the trade mark registry for any earlier adoption/use of the

 mark LEGO only in relation to confectionaries. 15/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023 29. Thus, the 1st Respondent was conscious and alive to the fact that

 there is a possibility of LEGO having been applied in other classes and

 mischievously, the 1st respondent claims to have made a search only for

 traders dealing in confectionaries. Such a conduct does not exhibit any bona

 fides, but only exposes the mala fides on the part of the 1st Respondent. 30. The Petitioner’s global reputation and good will are not even

 questioned by the 1st Respondent and to claim that the use of LEGO was

 honest and concurrent can never merit acceptance, especially in view of the

 conduct of the 1st Respondent, discussed herein supra. 31. The 1st Respondent’s falling back on Section 28 regarding rights

 conferred by registration under Class 30 to the specified class of goods is

 also of no avail. 32. Reading Explanation to Section 11 along with Section 11(2) and Section 11(6) , it is clear that the Petitioner is entitled to protect its registered

 trade mark across different classes as well. It is not open to the 1 st

 Respondent to contend that their registration is only under Class 30 and not 16/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 under Class 28. It is settled law that registration under different classes is

 only for the convenience of the Registry of Trade Marks and it cannot be

 extended as a defence in an action for infringement or passing off. 33. Under Section 29 of the Act, it is not even mandatory to show

 actual instances of confusion and what is relevant is only the likelihood of a

 confusion. As already discussed, the target consumers are children and their

 recapitulation to their favourite goods is mainly visual and since the 1 st

 Respondent has copied dominant features of the Petitioner’s mark as well,

 leave alone the identical LEGO word mark, it is highly likely that children

 would easily fall prey, taking the 1st Respondent’s confectionaries to also be

 goods of the Petitioner. In R.Gopalakrishnan’s case, (referred herein supra),

 this Court relied on the ratio laid down in Slazenger v. Feltham, reported in

 (1889) 6 RPC 531, which runs thus: 34. In Ishi Khosla, (referred herein supra) the Delhi High Court held

 that dishonest adoption of somebody else's trade mark and trying to ride on 17/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 the good will of a competitor who entered the market prior in time is to be

 discouraged. The intention becomes manifest when the adoption is of the

 same style and label/packaging etc. 35. In P.Duraiswamy’s case (referred herein supra), this Court held

 that once it is held that the Plaintiff is the proprietor of a registered trade

 mark, it is not open to the Defendant to contend that he is entitled to the user

 of the impugned mark in any particular area. In the present case, a similar

 contention has been raised by the 1st Respondent that it sells its

 confectionaries only in the state of Telengana. Having found that the

 adoption of the mark LEGO by the 1st Respondent is in bad faith, it is not

 open to the 1st Respondent to contend that they are entitled to retain their

 registration as their area of business is restricted to only the city of

 Hyerabad/state of Telangana. 36. Insofar as reliance being placed on Charminar’s ( Vishnudas

 Trading v. Vazir Sultan ) case (referred herein supra), the statutory position

 has underwent a major change with the amendments introduced to Section

 11 by extending protection including the law of passing off which was not 18/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 available when the decision came to be rendered by the Supreme Court in

 1996, under the then Trade Marks Act, 1958 . Thus, the plea of both marks

 co-existing without any confusion can no longer be countenanced. 37. Even though the petitioner's declaration of 'well-known' status was

 pending the OPs, it will not relate back to the date of filing of the OP and

 would only have a prospective effect. At the same time, for all the reasons

 and discussions made hereinabove, the Petitioner having established that it

 was entitled to be granted the status of 'well-known' mark on the date of its

 Application and also in view of the mandate of Section 11(2) being read

 along with the Explanation to Section 11 , the petitioner is entitled to

 protection of its mark. 38. In view of the above discussions and ratio laid down in the cases

 referred and dealt with hereinabove, it is clear that the Petitioner has shown

 to be entitled to rectification of the register by removing the impugned

 marks. VI.Result:- 39. For all the foregoing reasons and discussions, the Issues are 19/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 answered in favour of the Petitioner. In fine, the Original Petitions are

 allowed and the impugned trademarks are liable to be removed and the 2nd

 Respondent shall take steps to remove the impugned marks viz.,

 LEGO CUTEHEART (label) under Registration No.1073754

 in Class 30 and the mark LEGO COFFYBOND (label)

 under Registration No.999049 in Class 30 from the register.

 However, there shall be no order as to costs. 13.09.2024
 Index : Yes/No
 Speaking/Non-speaking order
 rkp

 To
 The Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks,
 Trade Marks Registry, Chennai,
 Intellectual Property Office,
 G.S.T. Road, Guindy, Chennai – 600 032 20/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 P.B.BALAJI, J. rkp

 Pre-delivery Common Order in
 (T) OP (TM) Nos.190 & 191 of 2023

 13.09.2024 21/21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis