SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Mall parking lot horror story
DATE: 2022-01-20
SCORE: 859
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/s8gtck/mall_parking_lot_horror_story/

--- POST TEXT ---

Adding the crime flair because I'm pretty sure this is a crime. 

This happened yesterday at 6pm, in the parking lot of Greater Noida's Ansal Plaza Mall. 
My boyfriend and i were in his car, chilling, cuddling, and eating our takeaway order, which was parked in the corner of a completely secluded, dark and empty lot. 

Suddenly, 3 men with flashes on, start banging at the car door and windows and attempt pulling the door handles. They were also rubbing the windshield since the car windows were completely fogged up . Since there was no visibility, and we also had blinds on the windows, we were worried that these guys are some criminals trying to loot us or just miscreants. We were scared out of our senses and contemplated just driving away from this mess, when one of the men said "bahar aa jaiye, hame baat karni hai, hamne video bana li hai". 

My boyfriend grew concerned of my safety and decided to roll down the windows and talk to them. We asked them if they wanted money(if they were thieves), or if we were doing something wrong and if they wanted to inspect the vehicle (in case they thought we were consuming drugs or illegal). They asked him to step out and "leave madam inside, we won't do anything to her". 

I could hear them asking completely pointless questions to him (where do you stay, what do your parents do, what college do you go to, where is it) and i figured that they aren't the police. I stepped out and asked them who they were, and if they were not the police how could they detain us. One of the guys , the agressive one, said yes, and i demanded to see his ID. He refused. I asked "by what law are you not showing me your ID? Is this Pakistan where Indian laws don't apply? And if you are a cop, you know what I'm talking about, and if you don't show me an ID right now I will take you to court" . His accomplice, a calmer man, but dressed in all black outfit like the agressive one, said "madam aap shant ho jaiye, ham sir se baat kar rahe hai. You don't have to get involved in this". The agressive guy gestured to me and told calm guy that he'll have to call "inspector sahab of xyz police station" now since "they are not cooperating" and did a complete charade of dialing a number and putting the phone to his ear. My boyfriend was still trying to co-operate with these thugs and asked if there's a video, since he was afraid of his car's numberplate being filmed and used to trace him. They said " Sir you have to come to the office and we'll show you". This terrified me because if they took him away, i don't know who else would come for me and my 5'3 ass can not protect myself from men with with sticks. 

I called up my friend who's studying to be a lawyer, and told him about this situation. These thugs got alarmed and forced my boyfriend to tell me to "not call the police because we are settling things". I didn't give two shits to their offer and proceeded to talk to my friend. He told me that they can't film me or use it to blackmail us, because filming a woman without her consent is a criminal offense, and hugging or kissing isn't an offense even if done in public. I also realised that the sun had set now, and i couldn't be arrested even if they called the police. I dared them now to call the police, and that if they had my video, i will get them arrested for filming me without my permission. They now threatened to call our parents, we insisted that we are legal adults and can deal with this on our own. 

These guys were clearly confounded now and kept persuading my boyfriend to send me back to the car. He could see that they had run out of moves. He asked them one more time "you made the video, show it to me, don't show it to her if you're not comfortable". The men just looked at each other confused. Since both of us realised that their bluff had been caught and they were out of moves, we sat in our car and went our way. 

They didn't stop us after that. 

Tl, Dr/Moral of the story: 
Do not panic
Know your rights. 
Never ever go to the parking lot of Ansal Plaza Mall, Greater Noida.