SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: It was never about courruption.
DATE: 2018-02-21
SCORE: 151
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7z5ybu/it_was_never_about_courruption/

--- POST TEXT ---

It was never about corruption.

Back in 2011 and 2012, when scam after UPA scam, from Commonwealth to 2G to coal, came tumbling out, there was hardly anyone, other than their spokespersons, defending the Congress in the public sphere. There was genuine anger all around with the public clamouring for a change, an anger which was used by the Sangh Parivar by projecting a clueless idiot like Hazare as a mascot.

This whole anger against corruption provided many people a useful cover to vote for the BJP. They could claim that they are against the communal elements in BJP and are just voting for development and against corruption. A considerable percentage of people voted for BJP, unaware of the Sangh Parivar’s nature and history and believing in fake claims of development.

Two-three years down the line, a section of these voters who were misled by the development promises, started losing hope. They also began feeling uneasy about the reign of terror across the country in the name of cow, the attacks on minorities, the moral policing and the general clamping down on our freedoms. Disillusioned, some of them began speaking out about how they were misled by all the tall claims and Gujju photoshop model.

Still, a large section of the BJP voters continued to support them with that one golden line - “But the BJP is not corrupt”. Of course, the stories of how the sangh nationalists once made money even out of the coffins of our soldiers were too old to be recollected now. This “BJP/Modiji is not corrupt” was a good enough cover, at a time when much of the mainstream media was revelling in the art of crawling and licking the emperor’s feet and elsewhere.

That was until the corruption scandals started coming out one by one. It began from the days of demonetisation, when we heard news of the BJP buying up large parcels of land in different states ahead of the currency ban. Till then, none of the media even dared touch the Rs.20,000 corruption allegation around the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation when Modi was CM and of his name appearing in the Sahara diary.

Then came the even bigger ones, the more damaging ones. For the Rafale deal, the Modi Government sidelined HAL in favour of Reliance, while the unit cost per aircraft increased from Rs.629 crores to Rs.1611 crores. When asked about the details of the agreement in Parliament, the defence minister said that it is “classified information” and cannot be revealed due to “national security” concerns.

Then came the even more damaging one of Nirav Modi, who defrauded Rs.11,500 crore from Punjab National Bank, before fleeing the country and making an appearance with Narendra Modi at Davos. Though the BJP spokespersons (and even the defence minister) made the false claim that the scam happened in 2011, the FIR lodged by the CBI on 31 January refers to just eight Letters of Undertaking (LoUs), all of which were issued after 2017.

Even as these mega corruption scandals came out, those people who claimed that they decided to vote for BJP fed up with all the UPA corruption, were all seen busy defending their Modi’s Government online and offline. Quite unlike the UPA time. Their support, even now, for the BJP is revealing, in many ways.

Their vote was never about development, never against corruption. It all hinged on mere hatred of the minorities and dalits. It was the result of an intense wish to bring to power someone who has a history of successfully oppressing minorities, dalits and anyone who dared to question. All they wished to see was 1992-93 and 2002 all over again, repeated across the country. This hunger is being satiated on a daily basis. They have also a lot to look forward to, with milestone years like 2022 already being planned for, with the rise of even bigger monsters in states like UP and with the constant targeting of their enemies in their bhakt channels.

So, they are ready to defend any corruption, any attack and even the murder of judges. This is exactly what they voted for. In 2014, they still had to hide their communal fangs. In these four years though, those fangs have gained quite a lot of respectability and mainstream acceptance. The ones with normal teeth and kind hearts are the aberration. Organising rallies with the national flag to support a cop who raped an eight-year old girl and another one in support of a man who set to fire and murdered a fellow human being, are the new normal.

Credit- Praveen Srp