1. I have gone through the judgment prepared by my esteemed

 Brother, Hon. Bhangale, J., but for the reasons which I shall shortly

 
 indicate, I am unable to agree with his erudite opinion on the points

 in issue. Consequently, I do not also agree with the proposed final

 
 decision as, in my opinion, the present writ petition ought to succeed. 2. The principal question which arises for our consideration

 in this case is: whether naming any person as suspect in the police
 

 report/charge-sheet filed under Section 173(2) and more so under Section 173(8) of the Criminal Procedure Code (hereinafter referred to

 as the ' Cr.P.C .' or 'Code') is just, fair, proper and is in consonance with

 the procedure established by law? The incidental question is: whether

 on account of naming of any person as suspect in the police

 report/charge-sheet, it has the inevitable effect of sullying the

 reputation of that person irrespective of the nature of pending criminal

 action? 3 wp314309 3. The broad facts which have given rise to filing of the

 
 present Petition and relevant for deciding the matter in issue can be

 
 stated as follows: tion No.482 of 2003, asserting that after registration of the F.I.R., the
 

 investigation of the case was entrusted to Mr.Sudhakar B. Pujari

 (Respondent No.1 herein). It was their case that during the course of

 investigation, Mr.S.B.Pujari had collected material and was in the

 process of arresting Smt. Sayalee Joshi and others and at that time, he

 was transferred on 31st January, 2003. It was their case that Respondent

 No.1 was transferred to scuttle the investigation. As a result, they filed

 Petition - which was treated as Public Interest Litigation - praying for

 Writ of Mandamus to direct the State of Maharashtra and its concerned

 Officials that the investigation made by Respondent No.1 herein be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 4 wp314309

 ordered to be kept in safe custody with the Special Court (Anti

 
 Corruption Court) in the City Civil and Sessions Court and the order

 
 transferring him dated 31st January, 2003 be quashed. The said Writ

 Petition was eventually disposed of on July 5, 2006 upon filing of the

 
 charge-sheet and the nine supplementary charge-sheets against 29

 accused persons. The Court was of the opinion that no further

 
 monitoring was necessary by this Court. b) The first police report under Section 173(2) of the Cr.P.C.,
 
 which was submitted by the Respondent No.1 as Investigating Officer

 before the Special Court was dated 22nd June, 2004. Thereafter, he filed
 

 successive supplementary police reports/charge-sheets on the basis of
 

 further investigation, in exercise of powers under Section 173(8) of the

 Cr.P.C. As aforesaid, in all eight police reports/charge-sheets came to

 be filed from time to time before filing of the final police report/charge- sheet dated 31st March, 2006 before the Special Court. c) It is not in dispute that the Petitioner had filed another

 Writ Petition on the earlier occasion for quashing of the investigation

 pursued against him, which, however, came to be disposed of as

 infructuous consequent to filing of the 6th further Police Report/charge ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 5 wp314309

 sheet wherein he was named as suspect. The said order dated 31st

 
 March, 2008, reads thus:- Taking clue from the observations in the above order, the petitioner has
 
 filed the present Writ Petition for reliefs, which are independent and
 
 necessitated due to developments after the institution of the previous

 Writ Petition. The reliefs claimed in the present Writ Petition are as
 

 follows:- 6 wp314309 d) It is common ground that the name of the Petitioner did

 
 not appear as accused either in the F.I.R. or the police reports filed by

 
 the Investigating Officer from time to time until the 5th supplementary

 police report/charge-sheet. In fact, the Petitioner was shown as one of

 
 the prosecution witnesses. For the first time, in the 6th supplementary

 police report/charge-sheet filed by the Investigating Officer, the name

 
 of the Petitioner was shown in the column of suspect. That description
 
 of the Petitioner continued to appear in all the subsequent

 supplementary police reports/charge-sheet, including in the Final Police
 
 Report/Charge-sheet dated 31st March, 2006. Resultantly, the present

 petition has been filed to question the said entries. 4. In this backdrop, two fold grievance has been made by the

 Petitioner in the present Petition. In the first place, it is asserted that

 once the final police report/charge-sheet has been filed before the

 Special Court, that presupposes that the investigation of the case is

 complete. If so, the question of describing the Petitioner as suspect

 accused does not arise. In that, the description in the charge-sheet can

 be only that of the accused who are sent for trial or of absconding

 accused and at best, of unknown accused. No other description, much

 less, of suspect accused, is envisaged by the Scheme of the provisions ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 7 wp314309

 of the Cr.P.C . According to the Petitioner, describing him as suspect

 
 accused has resulted in immense loss of his reputation and more so,

 
 because of the nature of the pending criminal case pertaining to

 M.P.S.C. Paper Scam, which received huge media coverage. 5. The other facet of the grievance of the Petitioner, is that,

 
 his name has been inserted in the 6th further police report/charge-sheet
 
 filed by the Respondent No.1, before the Special Court as Investigating

 Officer as suspect, out of personal vendetta since the Petitioner refused
 
 to toe the line of the Respondent No.1. The circumstances on the basis

 of which such inference is deduced by the Petitioner have been
 

 elaborated in the present Writ Petition. Considering the said
 

 allegations, this Court allowed the impleadment application filed by the

 Respondent No.1. The Respondent No.1, after being impleaded, has

 filed detailed affidavit to counter the allegations made against him of

 personal bias. In the reply affidavit filed by the Respondent No.1, he

 has not only questioned the intentions of Shri Sanjay Govind Parande,

 Additional Superintendent of Police (Head Quarters), Anti Corruption

 Bureau (ACB) who has filed reply affidavit for and on behalf of

 Respondent Nos.2 and 3, but has also asserted that there was material

 against Petitioner disclosing his likelihood of involvement in the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 8 wp314309

 commission of the alleged offence. In his affidavit, the Respondent No.

 
 1 has adverted to the said material/circumstances. It is on that assertion,

 
 the Respondent No.1 has stated that he was justified in naming the

 Petitioner as suspect accused. Besides naming the Petitioner, he has

 
 also named other seven persons as suspect accused on the basis of the

 material gathered during investigation which discloses their likelihood

 
 of involvement in the offence. 6. Significantly, the material/circumstances to which
 
 reference is made in the reply affidavit by respondent No.1, not only

 pertain to period prior to the filing of final police report/charge-sheet
 

 dated 31st March, 2006, but the tenor of the affidavit clearly admits that
 

 the same came to his knowledge as Investigating Officer during the

 course of investigation and prior to filing of the final police

 report/charge-sheet dated 31st March, 2006. Further, it is not the case

 of respondent No.1 that the said material/circumstances were sufficient

 to show, at least prima facie, that the Petitioner was involved in the

 crime and is party to the alleged offence. Whereas the same would, at

 best, point towards the likelihood of involvement of the Petitioner in

 the commission of the alleged offence. These, to my mind, are crucial ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 9 wp314309

 facts to be borne in mind while considering the challenge of the

 
 petitioner. 7. Be that as it may, insofar as affidavit filed on behalf of

 
 Respondent Nos.2 and 3 is concerned, it is stated that the Bureau's

 hierarchy has concluded that there is no material on record to indicate

 
 any connection whatsoever of the Petitioner before this Court with the
 
 M.P.S.C. scam. It is stated that, that was evident from the copy of the

 notings dated 11th February, 2004 of the then Director General, ACB,
 
 Shri A.K.Agarwal. It is stated that the then Director General had

 categorically concluded that he did not find any evidence on record to
 

 indicate that the Petitioner-Shri Verma was involved in any way in the
 

 concerned M.P.S.C. scam. Besides the noting of the then Director

 General, ACB, reference is made to the stand of the Bureau and its

 findings on the accusations made by the Investigating Officer

 (Respondent No.1) from the notings dated 16th June, 2004 made by the

 subsequent Director General, ACB Shri K.K.Kashyap about his

 discussions with the then Advocate General of Maharashtra Shri

 Goolam Vahanwati. Reference is also made to the affidavits filed by

 subsequent Director Generals namely Shri P.S. Pasricha and Shri

 J.D.Virkar and also the Supervisory Officer, the then ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 10 wp314309

 Joint Commissioner of Police, ACB, Shri A.P. Dhere. It is then stated

 
 that although in terms of the order dated 22nd April, 2003 passed in PIL

 
 482 of 2003 by this Court, the investigation of the case was to be

 conducted by Respondent No.1 herein (Shri S.B. Pujari), but it was to

 
 be conducted under the supervision of Shri A.P. Dhere, Joint

 Commissioner of Police, ACB. However, the Respondent No.1 herein,

 
 blatantly flouted the directions of the Supervisory Officer and instead
 
 of replying to the clarifications sought by the Supervisory Officer, went

 on to make allegations against him. In substance, the affidavit filed by
 
 Respondents 2 and 3 supports the stand of the Petitioner before us that

 even on completion of investigation, there was no material to send the
 

 Petitioner for trial as an accused. 8. During the course of hearing, the Counsel for the

 Petitioner wanted us to probe into the allegations made against

 Respondent No.1 about falsely naming the Petitioner as suspect

 accused out of personal vendetta. However, considering the limited

 relief claimed in the present Writ Petition, I do not think it necessary to

 dilate on the said aspect. For, the relief claimed in the Petition can be

 redressed on the basis of the first principle that, in law, it is not open to

 name someone as suspect in the police report/charge-sheet filed under ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 11 wp314309 Section 173(2) or 173(8) of the Cr.P.C . In that, the same is the product

 
 of culmination of investigation by the Police Officer who files such

 
 police report/charge-sheet in Court in respect of the offence in

 question. The principal purpose of submitting a police report under the

 
 aforestated provisions is to send the "accused" for trial. 9. I may also place on record that the Respondent No.1
 
 wanted us to examine the case made out by him in the reply affidavit

 with regard to the factual matrix. However, for the view that I propose
 
 to take, it may not be necessary to enter into the thicket of the said

 allegations or the counter allegations between the Petitioner against
 

 Respondent No.1; and also in the reply affidavit made by the
 

 Respondents 2 and 3 against Respondent No.1 or the counter

 allegations made by Respondent No.1 against the Petitioner or against

 the affiant of the affidavit filed on behalf of Respondents 2 and 3. 10. To complete the record, I think it apposite to mention that

 the hearing of Writ Petition was concluded on the 8th of December,

 2010. The case was adjourned for pronouncement of judgment. Thereafter, the draft judgment was exchanged between us. Before the

 matter could be notified for pronouncement of judgment, on 16th ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 12 wp314309

 December, 2010, Respondent No. 1 moved a praecipe, which was taken

 
 on board at 3.00 p.m. on that date. Respondent No. 1 submitted that he

 
 had come across some relevant documents issued by the Government,

 Union of India, and also reported decisions, which may be useful to

 
 answer the matters in issue. He prayed for time to circulate the same to

 the Judges. He has then field affidavit sworn on 20th December, 2010,

 
 accompanied by Exhibits 'A' to 'F'. In this affidavit, he has, once again,
 
 reiterated his stand on factual aspects, as asserted by him in his earlier

 affidavit. In addition, however, besides placing on record Exhibits 'A'
 
 to 'F', he has adverted to series of reported judgments, in particular, to

 emphasise that the final step in the investigation, viz., the formation of
 

 the opinion as to whether or not there is a case to send the accused for
 

 trial is to be that of the officer in charge of the police station and the

 Court cannot dictate the Investigating Officer or interfere with the

 process of investigation in any manner. Reliance is also placed on

 judgments which have expounded on the theory of criminal conspiracy. Lastly, he has justified the naming of the petitioner as suspect, which,

 according to him, is in consonance with the prescribed form of police

 report. Amongst the exhibits, Exhibit 'C' is a communication dated

 13th August, 2004 sent by the Deputy Director (C), Government of

 India, Ministry of Home Affairs, to Shri Bhavesh Thakur, I.P.S., ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 13 wp314309

 D.I.G., S.C.R.B., Jharkhand, Ranchi, Circular issued by the Director

 
 (S.R.), Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, dated

 
 September 21, 2005 to the Chief Secretaries and Administrators of

 States / Union Territory Administrations, along with the Integrated

 
 Investigation Forms (I.I.Fs.), i.e., Form of First Information Report

 (I.I.F.-I), Crime Details Form (I.I.F.-II), Arrest/Court Surrender Form

 
 (I.I.F.-III), Property Search & Seizure Form (I.I.F.-IV), Final
 
 Form/Report (I.I.F.-V), Court Disposal Form (I.I.F.-VI) and Result of

 Appeal Form (I.I.F.-VII), are also appended thereto. 11. The real question is: What is the distinction between the
 

 term 'suspect' and an 'accused' known to Criminal Jurisprudence? The
 

 other principal question is: What is the purpose of filing police report

 under Sections 170 read with 173(2) and 173(8) of the Code? Depending on the answers to the above questions, the justness and

 appropriateness of mentioning the name of a person as suspect in the

 police report will have to be understood. 12. To address the points in issue, in the first place, I shall

 refer to the relevant provisions of the Cr.P.C . Section 154 of the

 Cr.P.C. envisages that every information relating to the commission of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 14 wp314309

 a cognizable offence, if given to an Officer in charge of a Police

 
 Station, the substance thereof is required to be entered in a book kept

 
 for that purpose. Once such information is recorded and it discloses

 cognizable offence, the officer-in-charge of a Police Station by virtue

 
 of Section 156 of the Cr.P.C. is obliged to investigate the same. That

 he can do without the order of a Magistrate. While investigating such

 
 cognizable case, he can exercise powers which a Court having
 
 jurisdiction over the local area within the limits of such Police Station

 will have power to inquire into or try under the provisions of Chapter
 
 XIII. We need not refer to the other provisions of the Cr.P.C . as to the

 manner in which the investigation ought to proceed as that is not
 

 relevant for deciding the present case. Suffice it to observe that the
 

 investigation under Chapter XII has to be completed by the

 Investigating Officer without unnecessary delay. That is the mandate of Section 173(1) of the Cr.P.C. In the event, after investigation, it

 appears to the officer in-charge of the police station that there is

 sufficient evidence or reasonable ground against the accused, he is

 obliged to forward the accused under custody to a Magistrate

 empowered to take cognizance of the offence upon a police report and

 to try the case or commit him for trial, or, if the offence is bailable and

 the accused is able to give security, shall take security from him for his ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 15 wp314309

 appearance before such Magistrate on a date fixed for his case from

 
 day-to-day before such Magistrate, until otherwise directed. This is the

 
 requirement of Section 170 of the Cr.P.C. Further, sub-section (2) of Section 173 of the Cr.P.C. provides that as soon as the investigation is

 
 completed, the Officer in-charge of the Police Station is obliged to

 forward to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of offence on a

 
 police report, report containing specified information. Sub-section (2)
 
 which is of some relevance for answering the controversy, reads thus: 16 wp314309 (f) whether he has been released on his bond and, if

 
 so, whether with or without sureties; (g) whether he has been forwarded in custody under section 170 ; [(h) whether the report of medical examination of the
 woman has been attached where investigation relates to
 an offence under sections 376 , 376-A, 376-B, 376-C or
 376-D of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).] (ii) The officer shall also communicate, in such manner
 
 as may be prescribed by the State Government, the
 action taken by him, to the person, if any, by whom the
 information relating to the commission of the offence
 
 was first given." From the plain language of sub-section (2), it is amply clear as to what
 

 should be the contents of the report of police officer. In that, it is

 provided that the report should be in the form prescribed by the State

 Government "stating" the details referred to therein. In other words,

 the contents of the report have been spelt out by the Legislature itself,

 and what is left to be prescribed by the State Government is only the

 form of the contents so specified. For better understanding of the

 matter in issue, one cannot overlook the purpose, for which the report

 of police officer under Section 170 read with 173(2) and 173(8) is

 required to be filed in the concerned Court. The purpose is to record ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 17 wp314309

 the opinion of the Investigating Officer upon culmination of the

 
 investigation so as to identify the person who, in his view, should be

 
 sent for trial as an accused in relation to the offence investigated by

 him. He cannot send the suspect for a trial. Keeping this purpose in

 
 mind, the contents of the police report specified by the Legislature

 under Section 173(2) will have to be analysed and understood. Insofar

 
 as clause (a) of Section 173(2)(i) , that refers to the names of the parties. The term 'parties' has not been defined in the Cr.P.C . The dictionary

 meaning of the term 'parties' would mean "the persons who take part in
 
 the performance of any act, or who are directly interested in any affair,

 contract, or conveyance, or who are actively concerned in the
 

 prosecution and defense of any legal proceeding". (See Black's Law
 

 Dictionary - Sixth Edition.) In the same dictionary, the term "party to

 be charged" has been defined as - a phrase used in the statute of frauds,

 meaning the party against whom the contract is sought to be enforced; the party to be charged in the action - that is, the defendant. Thus, a

 suspect cannot be covered by the term "parties" appearing in clause (a). Clause (b) provides for the nature of the information. Clause (c)

 enables the Investigating Officer to mention the names of the persons

 who appear to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case. If a

 person were to be named in the context of requirement of clause (c), ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 18 wp314309

 the position would be entirely different, but this clause cannot come to

 
 the aid of the Investigating Officer to name someone as suspect. Insofar as clause (d) is concerned, it requires the Investigating Officer

 to specify as to whether any offence appears to have been committed,

 
 and, if so, by whom. The expression 'by whom' appearing in Section

 173(2)(d) itself is an indication that the name of person who has

 
 committed the offence, viz., the accused, who needs to be sent for trial,
 
 ought to be mentioned. This interpretation is inevitable in the context

 of the purpose for which police report is required to be filed by the
 
 Investigating Officer without unnecessary delay. The said expression

 'by whom' will have to be interpreted ejusdem generis and the setting in
 

 which it appears. As per this clause, therefore, the Investigating
 

 Officer has to identify the person who should be, and has been, named

 as accused to be sent for trial. The Investigating Officer can name the

 person as having committed the offence only if he has firm information

 to show, at least prima facie, that the person is involved in the crime

 and has committed the offence. In absence of sufficient material in

 that behalf, the information or evidence gathered by the Investigating

 Officer would be only in the realm of pointing towards the person's

 likelihood of commission of an offence. Such person cannot be sent

 for trial by the Investigating Officer, much less as an accused. As ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 19 wp314309

 aforesaid, the purpose of the police report is to name the person

 
 against whom the investigating agency has sufficient material to show,

 
 at least prima facie, that he has committed offence as accused to be

 sent for trial. Clause (e) of the same provision obliges the Investigating

 
 Officer to disclose in his report as to whether the accused has been

 arrested. We cannot gloss over the crucial fact that the Legislature has

 
 consciously used the expression 'accused' throughout Section 170 as
 
 well as Section 173 . Further, clause (d), which precedes clause (e),

 refers to disclosure by the Investigating Officer of the name of the
 
 person, who, in his view, has committed the offence in question; the

 purpose of which is, indeed, to send that person for trial before the
 

 Court of competent jurisdiction. Clauses (f) and (g) also refer to
 

 person who would be covered by term 'accused' appearing in the

 preceding clauses. It is too elementary that the person who is only a

 suspect, in the opinion of the Investigating Officer, cannot be sent for

 trial as an accused by him. 13. The police report so submitted is commonly known as a

 charge-sheet. Indeed, the form of police report/charge-sheet can be

 prescribed by the State Government. Notably, the term 'prescribed' has

 been defined in Section 2(t) of the Cr.P.C. to mean prescribed by Rules ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 20 wp314309

 made under the Code. However, the contents of the said report/charge- sheet have been clearly spelt out in sub-section (2) itself. No other

 
 information besides the said information need be provided in the police

 report/charge-sheet. The legal position as to what should be the

 
 contents of the final report has been expounded by the Constitution

 Bench of the Apex Court in the case of K.Veeraswami vs. Union of

 
 India & Ors. reported in (1991) 3 SCC 655. It will be useful to
 
 reproduce paragraph 76 of the said decision which reads thus: 21 wp314309

 is also not necessary that all the details of the offence must be

 
 stated. The details of the offence are required to be proved to
 bring home the guilt to the accused at a later stage i.e. in the
 course of the trial of the case by adducing acceptable

 
 evidence." (emphasis supplied) 14. Thus, the report under Section 173(2) is an intimation cum

 opinion of the Investigating Officer submitted to the Magistrate. The

 
 Magistrate is apprised of the fact that investigation into a cognizable
 
 offence has been undertaken. Further, during such investigation he (the

 Investigating Officer) has been able to procure "sufficient material" 2. The Government of India also advised the
 State Government to introduce the 7 terms for effective
 functioning of the Crime Criminal Information System. The Director General of Police, Mumbai and
 the Additional Director General of Police, CID (Crime),
 

 Maharashtra State Pune in his letter mentioned above has
 submitted the proposal for replacement of existing forms
 contained in the Bombay Police Manual Volume III Rule
 No. 113 and No.114 Standard Form No. C.P.C . 14. 3. Now therefore Government of Maharashtra
 in exercise of powers conferred on it hereby directs that
 under noted forms shall be introduced in the working of
 Maharashtra State Police from the date of issue of this
 Order. They shall be on printed paper of the quality on
 which other Police Forms are presently printed. FIR Form (U/S 154 CRPC), Court Disposal Form and
 Result of Appeal Form (U/S 173 CRPC) shall become

 
 obsolete. BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR
 OR MAHARASHTRA STATE. Sd/- (M.M. KAMBLE)
 Deputy Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
 Home Department" The wealth of information captured in the crime records at the police

 
 stations across the country has no relevance to the specific trial of the
 
 accused in a given offence. The report envisaged by Section 173(2) of

 the Code is for the specific purpose of submitting opinion of the
 
 Investigating Officer as to who should be sent for trial as an accused. In other words, the general information collated at the police station
 

 level for maintenance of crime records can have no bearing on the
 

 submission of the information in the police report envisaged under Section 173(2) or 173(8), which is specific to the named accused to be

 sent for trial. Whereas, a person can be sent for trial as an accused by

 the Investigating Officer, only if he were to be convinced that the

 material gathered by him during investigation of the offence discloses

 the involvement of the person in the commission of the offence. If the

 material collected by the Investigating Officer merely indicates the

 likelihood of involvement of the person, such person cannot be named

 as an accused to be sent for trial. The latter, only being a suspect, ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 26 wp314309

 cannot be sent for trial by the Investigating Officer. A suspect has no

 
 means to defend himself during the trial and thus, would be condemned

 
 unheard, much less a fair trial. Notably, as per the scheme of

 provisions of the Code, a suspect cannot approach the concerned Court

 
 for discharge, as he is not an accused sent for trial. For, the

 provisions of the Code enable only the named or charge sheeted

 
 "accused" or against whom charges are framed by the Court to seek
 
 discharge. The real test is: Whether it is open to a person named

 as suspect in the charge sheet to move the trial Court for discharge? If the answer is no, as I am inclined to hold, it will be naive to suggest

 that the person should be still named as suspect in the police report
 

 submitted to the Court. Take a case where the sole accused named in
 

 the police report were to be discharged by the trial Court. Can, in such

 a case, the Court continue with the trial (in absence of any named

 accused) on the assumption that it has already taken cognizance of the

 offence and the Investigating Officer, in his police report filed under Section 173(2) or 173(8), has additionally mentioned the name of a

 person as suspect? Indubitably, there can be no trial against a suspect. The trial is only against the persons named as "accused" in the police ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 27 wp314309

 report or against whom charges have been framed by the Court after

 
 taking cognizance of the offence. 15. Besides the above notification, which was made over to us

 
 during the hearing, in the additional affidavit filed by respondent No. 1

 dated 20th December, 2010, he has produced communication sent by

 
 the Deputy Director (C), Government of India, Ministry of Home
 
 Affairs, to the DIG, S.C.R.B., Jharkhand, Ranchi, dated 13th August,

 2004 and Circular issued by the Director (SR) to the Chief Secretaries
 
 and Administrators of all States / UT Administrations,
 
 

 dated September 21, 2005 and the accompanying Integrated

 Investigation Forms. The letter dated 13th August, 2004 reads thus:- D.O. No.106/1/2001/IIF/CR/NCRB the 13th August, 2004

 Dear Shri Bhavesh Thakur,

 Please refer to your letter No. 228/SCRB dated
 14.07.2004 regarding need for a review of Integrated
 Investigation Forms (IIFs). The DGsP / IGsP conference ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:20 ::: 28 wp314309

 2003 had recommended to form a committee to review the

 
 need for Integrated Investigation Forms. Though the set of IIFs appears to be bulky but only

 
 the relevant forms need to be filled up at different point of
 time as the case progresses and a large number of parameters
 are optional. These forms are systematic and serve as a
 checklist for an I.O. who may miss out vital information in
 absence of these forms. The advantages are manifold. The IIFs were devised in 1986 by the Task Force
 constituted by MHA, Govt. of India. Later, it was followed
 with lot of deliberations and actual participation of State
 police officers / field officers and approved with the

 
 concurrence of Ministry of Law & Justice and the Ministry
 of Home Affairs, Government of India. All the feedbacks
 
 received from States / UTs have been incorporated. The IIFs have been notified and implemented by all
 the States and UTs. The IIFs have adequate legal backing
 
 as these are meant to be used at the Police Station level and
 Courts, uniformly in India. Thus, the legal, professional and
 statistical requirements can be met by one time effort of
 investigating the case using IIFs. During the meeting of Director Generals of Police
 and Home Secretaries of 10 States at NCRB, New Delhi on
 

 05.06.2003, the Union Home Secretary desired that all cases,
 whether of Inter-State or Inter-District ramification, must be
 computerized. Thus it is advisable that all the crimes should be

 computerized at the District level. The data of cases of
 inter-District ramification will be thresholded to the State
 level (SCRB) while the data of Inter-State ramification will
 be thresholded to the National level (NCRB). With kind regards,

 Yours sincerely,
 Sd/- (SANTOSH KUMAR)

 Shri Bhavesh Thakur, IPS
 DIG, S.C.R.B.
 Jharkhand
 RANCHI. " These data sets will be XML enabled for information
 exchange. NCRB has already web and XML enabled reports on
 the National Databases (CCIS), to facilitate user friendly
 exchange of information. 32 wp314309

 VI) Security Standards: NCRB will provide e-security

 
 standards and make the States/UT Administrations/Agencies
 aware of the same to ensure safety of these Important
 National Crime Databases. 7. The State Governments/UT Administrations are
 requested to take necessary measures to regularly update
 and share these National Databases for their effective use
 towards control of crime and maintenance of public order. Yours faithfully,

 Sd/- Copy forwarded for information and necessary action to: Class `C' cases.- Wherein no offence has been committed at
 all either by the accused or by any one else, but wherein the
 
 case is found to be "neither true nor false" or "false but not
 maliciously false." 22. Be that as it may, when the report of Police Officer is filed
 

 under Section 173(2) , that presupposes that the investigation is

 complete or in any case, partially complete to the extent justifying the

 filing of the police report under Section 173(2) . The purpose of filing

 police report is essentially to give intimation to the concerned Court

 that in the opinion of the Investigating Officer, there is sufficient

 evidence or reasonable ground to send the person named by him as

 accused for trial. It is on the basis of this report the competent Court

 takes cognizance of the offence referred to therein. Indeed, even after

 the Court has taken cognizance, it is open to the Investigating Officer ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 39 wp314309

 to undertake further investigation on complying the requirements of Section 173(8) of the Cr.P.C. and then file supplementary police report. However, at some point of time, when the investigation reaches the

 dead end or is completed, the Police Officer has no option but to file a

 
 Final Police Report. The filing of such Supplementary or Final Police

 Report/charge-sheet under Section 173(2) and/or Section 173(8) ,

 
 presupposes that the Investigating Officer has nothing more to
 
 contribute and has completed the investigation. If the material referred

 to therein discloses the involvement of the person named by the
 
 complainant or otherwise, the Investigating Officer has a bounden duty

 to name such person as accused, being convinced that such person
 

 should be sent for trial. Once a police report is filed and cognizance is
 

 taken by the concerned Court, the trial proceeds as against the persons

 named as accused in the charge-sheet or persons who are charge- sheeted by the Investigating Officer. There can be no trial of a person

 on the assumption that he is a suspect. In absence of material to show

 the involvement of a person in the crime and having committed the

 alleged offence, the Investigating Officer cannot be allowed to

 "persecute" such person by describing him as suspect in the Final

 Police Report/charge-sheet filed under Section 173(2) or Section

 173(8) of the Cr.P.C., as the case may be. It would be another matter if ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 40 wp314309

 the further investigation was to take place and additional material is

 
 gathered which would show the involvement of such person who was

 
 not originally named in the police report/charge-sheet already filed

 before the concerned Court, so as to send that person for trial as an

 
 accused in terms of the supplementary police report/charge-sheet to be

 tried along with other accused. 23.
 
 As is noticed earlier, the decision of the Apex Court in the

 case of K.Veeraswami (supra) has expounded that there is no need to
 
 record any other detail in the police report/charge-sheet filed under Section 173(2) of the Cr.P.C. except the ones mentioned therein. The same are restated in the said decision . Besides, it will be useful to
 

 refer to the observations of the Division Bench of this Court in the case

 of Smt.Rajni Vishram Patil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation &

 Anr. reported in 2009 All MR (Cri.) 3262, which reads thus: under Wednesbury principles, of which the

 principle that is germane to the instant case is: As Lord Devlin, speaking for the Judicial Committee
 of the Privy Council in Hussien Vs. Chong Fook
 Kam, (1970) A.C. 942, 948, said: i.e. bringing the suspect before a magistrates'
 court upon a charge of a criminal offence. The

 
 other side of the same coin is where the
 investigation, although diligently pursued, fails
 ig to produce prima facie proof which, as Lord
 Devlin in the same case also pointed out (p. 949), must be in the form of evidence that
 would be admissible in a court of law. When
 
 the police have reached the conclusion that
 prima facie proof of the arrested person's guilt
 is unlikely to be discovered by further inquiries
 of him or of other potential witnesses, it is their
 duty to release him from custody
 

 unconditionally: Wiltshire Vs. Barrett (1966) 1
 Q.B. 312." 43. In Indian Law as in the U.K. the power to
 investigate crime is statutory. A notified officer
 is entitled to investigate an offence in
 accordance with the provisions of the Criminal

 Procedure Code read with the Police Act or the
 Manual, as the case may. The exercise of
 statutory power has to be lawful and free of
 malice or unfairness. The power must be
 exercised in good faith, not only at the time of
 examining a suspect but while taking a final

 view for sending the accused for trial. This
 power to investigate should continue during the
 entire investigation and even during trial and
 that is the precise reason why the court of
 competent jurisdiction is vested with a power as
 contemplated in Sections 173(8) and 319 of the
 Criminal Procedure Code to practically re- examine the entire case of the prosecution
 based on and with reference to the evidence
 relied upon by the Investigating Agency which ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 43 wp314309

 is collected even after the commencement of

 
 trial." (emphasis supplied) 24. The dictum in the above said decision (in particular on

 which emphasis is placed) reinforces the view that naming a person as

 
 suspect accused in the Final Police Report/charge-sheet filed under

 Section 173(2) or 173(8) of the Cr.P.C . cannot be countenanced, as it

 
 would be opposed to Criminal Jurisprudence. In that sense, column 12
 
 of Form I.I.F.-V requiring disclosure of particulars of persons not

 charge sheeted (suspect) as prescribed by the State Government vide
 
 Notification dated 18th March, 1997 or in the circular issued by the

 Director (SR), Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, dated
 

 September, 21, 2005, cannot continue to be part of the charge-sheets or
 

 police reports filed by the Investigating Officers in Court on

 completion of the investigation. Instead, it may be open to the

 Investigating Officer to invite the attention of the concerned Court at

 the appropriate stage about his perception or suspicion regarding the

 likelihood of involvement of some other person(s) who is not named in

 the charge-sheet and seek appropriate direction of the concerned Court

 to allow him to undertake further investigation qua that person. 44 wp314309 25. If the name of the person is allowed to remain in the

 
 charge-sheet as a suspect accused, it may give rise to a legitimate

 
 objection by the person for continuance of his name as suspect in the

 charge-sheet. As that person may not get opportunity to defend

 
 himself during the trial and at the same time, his reputation would be

 inevitably sullied due to continuation of his name as suspect accused in

 
 the Final charge-sheet. The rudimentary principles of natural justice
 
 would then demand that such person should get a fair opportunity to

 explain his position if at all there is tittle of doubt about his alleged
 
 involvement in the commission of crime in question. If such person, as

 in the present case, were to approach the Court for effacing his name
 

 from the police report / charge sheet as a suspect by way of petition
 

 under Section 482 of the Code or Article 226 of the Constitution, it

 would inevitably require the Court to appreciate the documents and

 evidence placed before it, to examine his grievance. That would

 amount to a pretrial of the disputed questions. The appreciation of

 evidence is the function of the Trial Court and normally be left to that

 Court. This position is no more res integra. The Apex Court in the

 case of State of Bihar & Anr. vs. P.P.Sharma, IAS & Anr. reported in

 1992 Supp (1) SCC 222 has held that it is a settled law that a person

 should be given an opportunity to meet the allegations, otherwise, it ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 45 wp314309

 would amount to violation of principles of natural justice, as the person

 
 described as suspect accused would be "condemned without getting

 
 opportunity", much less a fair opportunity, at least at some stage either

 during the investigation and in any case before the appropriate Court. It is well established by now that a person has right to defend his

 reputation, being one of the facets of Article 21 of the Constitution of

 
 India. The Apex Court in the case of Smt.Kiran Bedi vs. Committee of
 
 Inquiry & Anr. reported in (1989) 1 SCC 494 had occasion to observe

 thus: 46 wp314309

 enjoyment of his life, his limbs, his body, his

 
 health and his reputation. 24. In Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume 77 at
 page 268 is to be found the statement of law in
 the following terms: 25. In D. F. Marion v. Davis, it was held: 26.
 
 Notably, the principle enunciated in this Judgment has

 consistently been followed in several other cases. We may usefully
 
 refer to the recent decision of the Apex Court in the case of State of

 Bihar vs. Lal Krishna Advani & Ors. reported in (2003) 8 SCC 361. The Court quoted the observation in the case of Kiran Bedi (supra)
 

 with approval and observed thus: Some decisions, to which our attention has been

 
 drawn by Shri Harish N. Salve, learned Senior
 Counsel appearing for Respondent 1, may be
 referred: Board of Trustees of the Port of
 Bombay v. Dilipkumar Raghavendranath

 
 Nadkarni - (1983) 1 SCC 124: 1983 SCC
 (L&S) 61, wherein it was observed that right to
 reputation is a facet of right to life of a citizen
 under Article 21 of the Constitution. He has

 
 also referred to the International Covenant on
 Civil and Political Rights, 1965 (ICCPR),
 
 recognizing right to have opinions and the right
 of freedom of expression subject to the right of
 reputation of others. The Covenant provides : 49 wp314309

 It is thus amply clear that one is entitled

 
 to have and preserve, one's reputation and one
 also has a right to protect it. In case any

 
 authority, in discharge of its duties fastened
 upon it under the law, traverses into the realm
 of personal reputation adversely affecting him,
 it must provide a chance to him to have his say
 in the matter. In such circumstances right of an

 
 individual to have the safeguard of the
 principles of natural justice before being
 adversely commented upon by a Commission
 of Inquiry is statutorily recognised and violation

 
 of the same will have to bear the scrutiny of
 judicial review. A reference may be made to,
 
 Peter Thomas Mahon v. Air New Zealand Ltd - 1984 AC 808 : (1984) 3 All ER 201 : (1984) 3
 WLR 884 (PC). 27. As observed by the Apex Court in the case of Lal
 

 Krishna Advani (Supra), it may not be necessary for a person to wait
 

 till certain action is initiated by the Government. It is open to such

 person, against whom observations made by the Commission are such,

 which militate against his reputation, without giving him any chance to

 explain his conduct, to move the Court for deletion of such

 observations. Applying the principle underlying the abovesaid

 enunciations, when a person has been named as suspect that too in the

 Final Police Report/charge-sheet, he would be entitled to complain that

 his reputation is impinged upon and, therefore, can legitimately ask for

 effacing his name from such Final Police Report/charge-sheet - which ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 50 wp314309

 he can do only by filing petition under Section 482 of the Code or

 
 under Article 226 of the Constitution. If that happens, it would lead to

 
 a pre-trial inquiry of the material, which can be and ought to be

 answered during the trial against the named accused. Such inquiry may

 
 be disastrous to the outcome of the trial itself against the named

 accused. That cannot be countenanced. As has been observed earlier,

 
 the provisions of Section 173(2) of the Cr.P.C. postulate that only the
 
 names and details of "accused", or at best "wanted accused" or

 "unknown accused" should be provided in the police report. In the
 
 scheme of things, once police report under Section 173(2) and more so,

 Final Police Report is filed, it presupposes that the investigation is
 

 complete and only the accused against whom sufficient material is
 

 gathered during investigation disclosing his complicity in the alleged

 offence can be sent for trial and none else. To put it differently, the

 purpose of Police report is to disclose the names of accused who should

 be sent for trial. 28. In the case on hand, it is not the case of respondent No. 1

 that, upon submission of the successive police reports and the final

 police report by him, the concerned Court, on scrutiny of the material

 accompanying the said reports, even remotely indicated that it may be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 51 wp314309

 necessary to proceed against the petitioner, even though he has been

 
 named as suspect therein. That gives credence to the petitioner's plea

 
 that he cannot be condemned unheard and without an opportunity to

 defend himself. Insofar as the competent Court is concerned, even

 
 after taking cognizance on the basis of the police report, which fails to

 describe the petitioner as an accused, the Court is free to issue

 
 directions to the Investigating Officer to undertake further
 
 investigation, including, specifically, against the petitioner; or it may

 name the petitioner as an accused in exercise of power under Section
 
 319 of the Code in the event evidence comes on record during the trial

 to indicate the complicity of the petitioner in the commission of the
 

 offence. 29. The issue, if considered also on the touchstone of the

 constitutional scheme, and more particularly the right to reputation

 guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, there can be no

 manner of doubt that no person can be condemned unheard and without

 a fair trial, much less opportunity to explain his position at some stage

 of the proceedings. Besides, description of a person as suspect in the

 police report filed under Section 173(2) or 173(8) of the Code neither ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 52 wp314309

 serves the purpose of preventive measure against him, nor can it be

 
 made the basis to take punitive action against him. 30. A priori, I have no hesitation in taking the view that

 
 column 12 provided in Form I.I.F.-V of Final Report Form, as

 prescribed by the State Government in terms of Notification dated 18th

 
 March 1997 or in the circular issued by the Director (SR), Government
 
 of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, dated September 21, 2005, is

 opposed to Criminal Jurisprudence; and retaining thereof in the police
 
 report submitted to the Court against the petitioner has the inevitable

 effect of violating his fundamental right guaranteed to him under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Accordingly, the name of the
 

 Petitioner mentioned in supplementary police report / charge-sheet No.

 6 and onwards up to the Final Police Report / charge-sheet as suspect

 accused will have to be effaced from the record. 31. I am conscious of the fact that the validity of the

 notification issued by the State Government and the circular issued by

 the Government of India has not been challenged in the Writ Petition

 as filed. This, however, is a hyper-technical plea to shy away from the

 position which is stating the obvious. In the first place, as already ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 53 wp314309

 observed by me, the form of police report (IIF-V) specified in terms of

 
 the said notification or circular, as the case may be, is not prescribed by

 
 the Rules made under the Code as such. Our attention is not invited to

 any Rules framed under the Code. Even if the said notification and

 
 circular were to be reckoned, the petitioner can be given opportunity to

 amend the Writ Petition and ask for further appropriate relief. Because,

 
 the notification issued by the State Government was relied by
 
 Respondent No. 1 for the first time during the course of arguments. No reference was made thereto in the reply-affidavit filed by any of the
 
 respondents. Further, the circular issued by the Government of India

 came on record only by way of further affidavit filed by Respondent
 

 No. 1 dated 20th December, 2010, after the arguments were concluded
 

 on 8th December, 2010. In such a situation, it would be legitimate for

 the petitioner to request the Court to permit him to carry out a formal

 amendment of the Writ Petition to specifically challenge the offending

 part of the said notification and circular. Notably, the arguments

 pressed into service by the petitioner to challenge the entry in the

 offending Police Reports mentioning his name as suspect being unjust,

 unfair, inappropriate and against the spirit of Article 21 of the

 Constitution of India, on the same arguments the validity of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 54 wp314309

 offending part of the Police Report Form (i.e. I.I.F.-V, in particular

 
 item No. 12 thereof) will have to be tested. 32. In the further affidavit filed by respondent No. 1, an

 
 attempt is made to suggest that the Investigating Officer did not get a

 free hand to proceed against the petitioner on account of pendency of

 
 the Writ Petition filed by the petitioner. No doubt, the petitioner filed
 
 Writ Petition in this Court. That, however, did not impede with the

 investigation at all. In fact, the investigation by respondent No. 1
 
 continued uninterruptedly. It is in the 6th supplementary police report,

 for the first time, the petitioner came to be named as suspect. The fact
 

 that the petitioner resorted to remedy of Writ Petition did not come in
 

 the way of respondent No.1, in forming his opinion about the

 involvement of the petitioner in the commission of offence or

 otherwise and to name the petitioner as accused in the supplementary

 police report and, in any case, in the final police report. 33. For the aforestated reasons, the relief claimed in the

 Petition ought to succeed. That, however, does not mean that the

 Petitioner cannot be proceeded against at the appropriate stage if the

 fact situation so warrants, including by resorting to further investigation ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 55 wp314309

 under Section 173 (8) of the Cr.P.C. or to proceed against him under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C., if it appears from the evidence during the

 
 course of inquiry into or trial that even though he is not already named

 as accused has committed offence for which he could be tried together

 
 with the named accused. Those aspects will have to be considered at

 the appropriate stage. The same are left open. 34.
 
 Petition disposed of on the above terms. A.M. KHANWILKAR, J. 56 wp314309

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY

 
 (CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION)

 
 CRIMINAL WRIT PETITION NO.3143 OF 2009

 

 
 Mr.Gyan chand Verma
 703, Redwood, Marigold Premises
 Kalyani Nagar,
 Pune - 411 014. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- Mr. Dinesh Tiwari, Advocate for petitioner. Respondent No.1 is present in Court. Mr. J.P.Yagnik, Additional Public Prosecutor for 
 State. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- 57 wp314309

 CORAM:- A.M.KHANWILKAR AND

 
 A.P. BHANGALE, JJ. JUDGEMENT RESERVED ON: DECEMBER 8, 2010 

 
 JUDGEMENT PRONOUNCED ON:JANUARY 24, 2010. JUDGMENT : (Per A.P.Bhangale, J) 1. Rule. Rule made returnable and heard by consent of the 

 Parties and their counsels. Investigating officer (respondent no.1) 

 
 was also heard. Affidavits filed with copies of annexures are seen. The question which arise is as to whether name of the petitioner cited 

 in particulars of accused persons- not charge sheeted (suspect)- from the list in column no. 12 of the State Government prescribed 

 format of Final form/Report ( under Section 173 Cr. P. C.) can be 
 

 quashed from the supplementary Charge sheets no.6 onwards in the 
 

 case arising from C.R.no. 33 of 2002 registered by the Anti- corruption Bureau, Mumbai initially reported it on 20-06-2002 on the 

 ground that it infringes fundamental right as guaranteed under the Article 21 of the Constitution of India? Article 21 of the constitution 

 of India provides for Protection of life and personal liberty to ensure 

 that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except 

 according to procedure established by law. By this Writ Petition, the 

 Petitioner claims writ of certiorari or similar writ quashing the name 

 of the Petitioner from the supplementary charge sheet or police ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 58 wp314309

 report no.6 dated 22-06-2004 in respect of C.R, No.33 of 2002 

 
 registered on 20-06-2002 by ACB,BMU under section 120-B,119, 217, 

 
 218, 409, 418, 420, 424, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471, 474, 477(a), 380, 

 381, 457, 421 read with section 34 of the Indian Penal Code along 

 
 with Section 13(1) (d) and 13(2) of the Prevention of the Corruption 

 Act, 1988 read with section 109 of the Indian Penal Code and 

 
 Sections 5, 7, 8 of the Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices in 
 
 Examination Act, 1982 (known as 'MPSC scam'). According to the 

 Petitioner, final Charge sheet is submitted in the case on 31-03-2006, 
 
 but name of the Petitioner is continued to be shown as a Suspect 

 because he has been victimized by then Investigating officer. It is case 
 

 of the Petitioner that he joined the Police service in the year 1965 .He 
 

 was meritorious in service and in the year 1997 was promoted to the 

 rank of Director General of Anti-corruption Bureau, State of 

 Maharashtra. He was appointed as Member of the Maharashtra 

 Public Service Commission, ( hereinafter referred to as MPSC). He 

 was also appointed as Chairman of The MPSC. On the complaint 

 lodged by the first informant Smt. Seema Dhamdhere from MPSC, 

 Anti- corruption bureau registered FIR on 20-06-2002 and as CR no 

 33 of 2002 at ACB,BMU ,which was investigated and charge sheet 

 was filed on 27-09-2002 and total nine supplementary police reports ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 59 wp314309

 were filed later. The Petitioner had challenged the investigation 

 
 praying for to quash the same. That writ Petition no 2244 of 2005 

 
 which was pending for years was ultimately dismissed by this Court 

 on 31-03-2008 as infructuous since Charge sheet was filed in the 

 
 case. The Petitioner alleged that the Investigating officer had 

 obtained the search warrant and was trying to falsely implicate the 

 
 Petitioner by compelling the Petitioner to toe his line. The Petitioner 
 
 has been named as Suspect instead of as a witness in the case at the 

 time when the 6th supplementary charge sheet was filed. It is alleged 
 
 that the investigating officer had through his common acquaintance 

 persuaded him to ask another member Mrs. Sayali Joshi to surrender 
 

 herself assuring early filing of charge sheet and her bail subsequently. At the instance of the I.O. preliminary inquiry was conducted by the 

 Secretary of MPSC 20-05-2002 to 27-05-2002 and report was 

 submitted and the matter was referred to the ACB. According to the 

 Petitioner he gave information to, Director General, ACB Shri S.S. 

 Puri who was persuaded by him to investigate the matter. Petitioner 

 was coordinating between the ACB and the MPSC for progress in the 

 investigation, to unearth the crime and to get it scientifically 

 investigated. The petitioner's name surfaced in the form no. 5-C of 

 the 6th charge sheet when he is grouped as 'other associates' and /or ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 60 wp314309

 'suspects' with remark suspicion approved. The Petitioner contended 

 
 that this is not substantiated by any evidence. The petitioner thus 

 
 averred that he had no role in the crime but the I.O. included his 

 name mala fide and falsely, though senior officers to the I.O. refuted 

 
 stand taken by the I.O. as contended in the Petition. It is claimed that 

 it is a case of no evidence as against the Petitioner in the MPSC scam. But the I.O. had exceeded his power and searched the residence of 
 
 the Petitioner under a search warrant dated 15-03-2004 on 

 24-09-2005, and seized certain documents and articles. Which 
 
 according to the Petitioner are not even remotely connected to the 

 case. The articles and the documents were returned in the year 2008 
 

 to the Petitioner by the Special Court trying the case. According to 
 

 the Petitioner he could not have been legally shown as a suspect 

 after completion of the investigation. The petitioner can not file any 

 application for discharge from the case as he is shown as a suspect 

 with remark 'suspicion approved' and therefore he prayed for to 

 quash his name from the supplementary charge sheets no. 6 and 

 onwards from the case. 2. The petitioner had earlier challenged the investigation in 

 the case by filing Writ Petition 2244 of 2005, which was dismissed ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 61 wp314309

 by this court on 31-03-2008 on the ground that the Petitioner was 

 
 not shown as an accused but as a Suspect and the charge-sheet was 

 
 not challenged. Since Charge sheet was filed, the Petition became 

 infructuous and dismissed. The Petitioner again chose to file this 

 
 Petition. 3. Government of Maharashtra notification no. COM. 0195/POL.4/1/POL.4 dated 18-03-1997 prescribed format 5-C, 
 
 clause 12 relates to particulars of the accused persons -not charge 

 sheeted-(suspect). The particulars of the Petitioner appear to have 
 
 been included with special remarks of the investigating officer for not 

 charge sheeting him as 'investigation continued/writ Petition filed by 
 

 accused.' as also suspicion approved. (Ex. B to the Petition).In my 
 

 opinion in the absence of challenge to the validity of this Notification 

 which appears to have been approved by the Central Government of 

 India, the petitioner can not ask to delete his name from the 

 prescribed format of the Charge sheets tendered in the case. 4. The Petitioner appears to have obtained the copy of 

 internal comments of Police officer supervising the investigation, 

 relied upon (Exh.C) to the Petition. The supervising officer 

 concluded with the remarks that the investigating officer should be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 62 wp314309

 advised to complete and conclude the investigation without any 

 
 further delay. He may also be asked to indicate what further 

 
 investigation remains to be done and the time frame that would be 

 required for the same and give a plan of action within 7 days. It is 

 
 astonishing as to how the Petitioner can lay his hands on such 

 internal comments made during the crucial, preliminary stage of 

 
 investigation pending against him. Copies of comments annexed 
 
 would only indicate that there was no free hand for the Investigating 

 Officer to effect arrest and investigate the Petitioner due to 
 
 differences of opinions between the investigating officer and his 

 superior officer. It is grievance of the investigating officer 
 

 (Respondent no. 1 Mr. Pujari) that the Petitioner had filed the writ 
 

 Petition no. 2244 of 2005 and successfully prevented his arrest and 

 custodial investigation, due to interim order 'not to arrest' during 

 pendency of that Petition. After Charge sheet was filed in the Special 

 Court against those accused in respect of whom investigation is 

 complete, the investigator named certain persons as the non-charge 

 sheeted accused (suspects) against whom suspicion was approved. The Petitioner is one of them. Petitioner claims that the allegations 

 made against the petitioner are not substantiated and therefore 

 reputation of the Petitioner is tarnished. He relied on Article 21 of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 63 wp314309

 constitution of India which provides for Protection of life and 

 
 personal liberty to ensure that no person shall be deprived of his life 

 
 or personal liberty except according to procedure established by 

 law. (emphasis mine)

 
 On behalf of the Petitioner reference is made to the 

 ruling in Smt. Kiran Bedi vs. Committee of Inquiry and another [AIR 

 
 1989 SC 714]. The Committee in that case decided to examine the 
 
 conduct of the Police officers including Ms. Kiran Bedi and Jinder 
 
 Singh as falling under section 8B of the Commissions of Inquiry Act,

 1952, and they were required to appear in the witness box for cross 

 examination at the very inception of inquiry even before the 
 
 

 statements of witnesses proving the accusations against the 

 Petitioners had been recorded. Action of the committee to compel 

 them to appear as witnesses was therefore, held discriminatory as 

 also the consequential order by the Committee to prosecute them was 

 held invalid by the Apex Court in the special facts and circumstances 

 of that case, as involving infringement of Art. 14 and 21 of the 

 Constitution. The Apex Court had passed the order in exercise of 

 jurisdiction under Art.32 and 142 read with 136 of the Constitution 

 of India. The ruling, to my mind, would not be of any assistance to ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:21 ::: 64 wp314309

 the Petitioner in the facts and circumstances of the instant case. Reference is then made to the ruling in Smt. Rajani Vishram Patil Vs 

 
 C.B.I. & Anr. [2009 ALL MR (Cri) 3262]. This Court in para 45 

 concluded thus: 65 wp314309

 before the Trial Court all documents and evidence which 

 
 it intends to rely upon or to refer during the course of 
 the trial; 4. Liberty is granted to the Petitioner, Applicant and 
 Intervenors to move the Trial Court for any relief or such 
 prayer as may be permissible to them in accordance with 

 
 law. The applications, if any, filed by them may be dealt 
 with and disposed of by the Trial Court as expeditiously 
 as possible; 5. The Trial Court is free to pass any orders in 
 
 furtherance to the power vested in it under Section 
 173(8) read with Section 319 of the Criminal Procedure 
 Code, 1973 keeping in view the facts and circumstances 
 
 of the present case;----" The charge sheet is nothing but a final report of police 
 officer under Section 173(2) of the Cr. P.C. The Section 

 173(2) provides that on completion of the investigation 
 the police officer investigating into a cognizable offence 
 shall submit a report. The report must be in the form 
 prescribed by the State Government and stating therein (a) the names of the parties; (b) the nature of the 

 information; (c) the names of the persons who appear to 
 be acquainted with the circumstances of the case; (d) 
 whether any offence appears to have been committed 
 and, if so, by whom (e) whether the accused has been 
 arrested; (f) whether he had been released on his bond 
 and, if so, whether with or without sureties; and (g) 
 whether he has been. Forwarded in custody under Sec. 170. ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 67 wp314309 170. As observed by this Court in Satya Narain 

 
 Musadi and Ors. v. State of Bihar , [1980] 3 SCC 152 at 
 157; that the statutory requirement of the report under 

 
 Section 173(2) would be complied with if the various 
 details prescribed therein are included in the report. This 
 report is an intimation to the magistrate that upon 
 investigation into a cognizable offence the investigating 
 officer has been able to procure sufficient evidence for 

 
 the Court to inquire into the offence and the necessary 
 information is being sent to the Court. In fact, the report 
 under Section 173(2) purports to be an opinion of the 
 investigating officer that as far as he is concerned he has 

 
 been able to procure sufficient material for the trial of the 
 accused by the Court. The report is complete if it is 
 
 accompanied with all the documents and statements of 
 witnesses as required by Section 175(5). Nothing more 
 need be stated in the report of the Investigating Officer. It is also not necessary that all the details of the offence 
 must be stated. The details of the offence are required to 
 be proved to bring home the guilt to the accused at a 
 later stage i.e. in the course of the trial of the case 
 

 adducing acceptable evidence" The Court, before which the Charge sheet or police 

 
 reports are submitted in prescribed forms against the 
 
 accused/suspects named in report, is required to appreciate the 

 credibleness of the allegations. The society has broader interest to 
 
 oversee that police shall investigate crime and nab the culprits so as 

 to send them for trial. The investigation may remain pending against 
 

 a suspect, i.e. someone who is under suspicion but not included in 
 

 the charge sheet for want of an opportunity to arrest and investigate 

 against him/her. A suspect is a person who is believed by the 

 investigator as linked with the crime .But investigating officer is 

 without any positive material against him to identify and term him as 

 an 'accused' and send him for trial. Investigation against the suspect 

 can resume if opportunity to interrogate him is available. If any 

 additional material rise up to furnish sufficient ground to indict the 

 suspect, the investigating officer may , in that case move against such 

 suspect take step to hold him in custody for brief period as is ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 82 wp314309

 permissible under law for custodial interrogation. If suspect is a 

 
 public figure it is in his own interest to come out of heavy shadow of 

 
 allegations to be worthy of public trust and confidence. There is duty 

 to take reasonable care on the part of investigator to bear in mind the 

 
 constitutional rights available to citizen and not to unnecessarily 

 target any innocent citizen as 'suspect' as it may irretrievably tarnish 

 
 his reputation and image in the society. If some one is named as 
 
 suspect in the police report mala fide without any basis whatsoever or 

 by misuse of power, then in exceptional circumstances and sparingly 
 
 the High Court may interfere with the Police reports or Charge sheet 

 filed, in exercise of jurisdiction and extra ordinary power under Article 226 of the Constitution. 10. The object of criminal justice system is to ensure that the 

 guilty are convicted and punished, and innocents are protected and 

 set free .Taking cognizance of the offence is co- terminus to the 

 power of the police to investigate in the crime. Until then there is no 

 power to the Magistrate except on a private complaint in a 

 cognizable/non cognizable offence to direct the police to investigate 

 into the offence. The Magistrate is not empowered to interfere with 

 the investigation by the police. In King Emperor v. Khawaja Nazir ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 83 wp314309

 Ahmad, (71 Indian Appeals, 203), the Judicial Committee of the 

 
 Privy Council held that "the function of the judiciary and the police 

 
 are complementary, not overlapping" and "the court's functions begin 

 when a charge is preferred before it, and not until then". 11. In Jamuna Chaudhary v State of Bihar , [(1974) 3 SCC 

 
 774], the Apex Court held: The duty is therefore cast upon the investigating officer 

 to maintain a day-to-day diary of his investigation, which is known as 

 "Case Diary" duly paginated in a bound volume as required under s. 172 of the Code. It is true that the entries in the case diary are not 

 evidence nor can they be used by the accused or the court unless the 

 case comes under s. 172(3) of the Code. The trial court is entitled to 

 peruse case diary to aid and enable it in any inquiry or trial to find ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 84 wp314309

 out if the investigation has been conducted on the right lines so that 

 
 appropriate directions, if need be, may be given and it may also 

 
 provide materials showing the necessity to summon witnesses not 

 mentioned in the list supplied by the prosecution or to bring on 

 
 record other relevant material which in the opinion of the court will 

 help it to arrive at a proper decision in terms of s. 172(3) of the Code. The primary duty of the police, thus is to collect complete evidence of 
 
 the commission of the offence and to produce the entire material 

 before the court to enable the court to find out whether the accused 
 
 named in the charge-sheet have committed the offence or whether 

 there is reason to believe that the suspect, other than the accused 
 

 named in the charge-sheet, have committed the offence and whether 
 

 the evidence available is sufficient to indict suspect. Under the Code 

 the investigating officer is normally expected to submit his full and 

 final report in the form prescribed by the State Government to the 

 competent Magistrate to enable him to take cognizance of the 

 offence, without withholding or suppressing any information which 

 came to his knowledge. Section 173(2), Cr. P.C. postulates that the 

 officer-in-charge is required to forward to a competent Magistrate a 

 report in the prescribed form as soon as investigation is complete. Section 173(1) and (2), Cr. P.C. reads as under:-- 85 wp314309

 "173. Report of police officer on completion of 

 
 investigation. -- (1) Every investigation under this 
 Chapter shall be completed without unnecessary delay. (1-A)The investigation in relation to rape of a child may 
 be completed within three months from the date on 

 
 which the information was recorded by the officer-in-
 charge of the police station

 
 (2)(i) As soon as it is completed, the officer-in-charge of 
 the police station shall forward to a Magistrate 
 
 empowered to take cognizance of the offence on a police 
 report, a report in the form prescribed by the State 
 Government, stating-- (a) the names of the parties; (b) the nature of the information; (c) the names of the persons who appear to be 
 acquainted with the circumstances of the case; (d) whether any offence appears to have been 
 committed and, if so, by whom; (e) whether the accused has been arrested; (f) whether he has been released on his bond and, if so, 
 whether with or without sureties; 86 wp314309 (g) whether he has been forwarded in custody under 

 
 Section 170. (h)whether the report of the medical examination of the 
 woman has been attached where investigation relates to 
 an offence under sections 376-A, 376-B, 376-C or 376-D 

 
 of the Indian Penal Code (45 Of 1860) (ii) The officer shall also communicate, in such manner 

 
 as may be prescribed by the State Government, the 
 action taken by him to the person, if any, by whom the 
 
 information relating to the commission of the offence 
 was first given." Under Section 173(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code 
 

 the investigating officer is required to submit report in the prescribed 

 form and the details are to be mentioned as specified in Section 

 173(2) which would include particulars as to whether in his opinion 

 any offence appears to have been committed and, if committed, 

 names of the persons by whom it is committed, irrespective of 

 nomenclature given whether they are named as suspects or accused. Sub-section (5) of Section 173 prescribes that along with the said 

 report all documents or relevant extracts thereof on which ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 87 wp314309

 prosecution proposes to rely other than those already sent to the 

 
 Magistrate during investigation and the statements recorded under 

 
 Section 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposes to 

 examine as its witnesses are required to be forwarded to the 

 
 Magistrate. In view of this Sub-section (5) the investigating officer is 

 required to submit evidence or material collected during the 

 
 investigation which may furnish reasonable ground of suspicion to 
 
 justify forwarding of the accused to the magistrate who is empowered 

 to take cognizance upon the police report. Sections 169, 170,172 and 
 
 173 of the Code read in juxtaposition to each other clarify the 

 requirements of law. Therefore, the statutory requirements of the 
 

 report under Section 173(2) would be complied with if the various 
 

 details therein prescribed are included in the final report. The final 

 report/challan/chargesheet/Police report is intimation to the 

 Magistrate (or the Special court which can take cognizance without 

 the requirement of an order of committal under section 209 of the 

 Code) that upon investigation into a cognizable offence the 

 investigating officer has been able to procure sufficient evidence for 

 the Court to inquire into the offence and the requisite information is 

 being sent to the Court. In fact, the report under Section 173(2) 

 purports to be an opinion of the investigating officer that, as far as he ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 88 wp314309

 is concerned that he has been able to procure sufficient evidence for 

 
 the trial of the accused by the Court and when he states in the report 

 
 not only the names of the accused, but names of the witnesses, the 

 nature of the offence and a request that the case be tried, there is 

 
 compliance with Section 173(2). The report as envisaged by Section 

 173(2) has to be accompanied as required by Sub-section (5) by all 

 
 the documents and statements of the witnesses therein mentioned. One cannot divorce the details which the report must contain as 

 required by Sub-section (2) from its accompaniments which are 
 
 required to be submitted under Sub-section (5). The whole of it is 

 submitted as a report to the Court. After submitting this report he is 
 

 entitled to make further investigation depending upon facts and 
 

 circumstances of each case under Section 173(8) and if he obtains 

 further evidence, oral or documentary, he is required to forward 

 further report or reports to the Magistrate regarding such evidence in 

 the manner as prescribed under Sections 173(2) to (6) of the Code. Section 172 of the Code requires the investigating officer to maintain 

 case diary including therein the statements of all witnesses recorded 

 under section 161 ,in a volume duly paginated. Which any criminal 

 court can call for to aid it in any such inquiry or trial. Therefore 

 narrow view of interpretation of section 173 (2) (d) that names of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 89 wp314309

 suspect can not be disclosed to the Magistrate empowered to take 

 
 cognizance of the offence or to the Court concerned trying the case, 

 
 can not be permissible. Further, looking to the objects and reasons of 

 incorporation of Sub-section (8) in Section 173, it would be clear that 

 
 Sub-section (8) was incorporated to avoid such type of narrow 

 interpretation of Section 173 by the Court. For the objects and 

 
 reasons of incorporating Sub-section (8), the following paragraph of 
 
 the Law Commission's 41st Report can be taken into consideration: 'Police report' is defined under Section 2 (r) Cr.P.C. The report 

 should be in the form prescribed by the State Government giving the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 90 wp314309

 particulars mentioned in clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (2) of 

 
 section 173 of the Code. It is settled legal position in view of section 

 
 173(8) of the Code that the police report containing all the 

 particulars mentioned in Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. is a valid police 

 
 report irrespective of the fact that it does not contain some of the 

 documents required to be filed under Section173 (5) Cr.P.C. Police 

 
 report or 'Challan' is a considered opinion of the investigating officer 
 
 as to the commission of crime to be cognized by the Magistrate or the 

 Court trying the case. 12. The judicial control which the Magistrate can exercise is 
 

 indicated in the ruling of S.N. Sharma v. Bipen Kumar Tiwari & Ors. , 
 

 [(1970)3 SCR 946], the Apex Court held that section 159 is 

 primarily meant to give to the Magistrate the power to direct an 

 investigation in cases where the police decides not to investigate the 

 case under proviso to s. 157(1) and it is in those cases, if the 

 Magistrate or the trial Court concerned thinks fit, can choose to 

 enquire into the case by himself or direct the subordinate Magistrate 

 to enquire into and submit a report. Section 159 intends to give a 

 limited power to the Magistrate to ensure that the police shall 

 investigate into cognizable offence and do not refuse to do so except ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 91 wp314309

 for certain limited permissible options of not proceeding with the 

 
 investigation of the offence. The Code gives unfettered power to the 

 
 Police to investigate all cases where they suspect a cognizable offense 

 has been committed. Upon the submission of final report the Court is 

 
 expected to apply its mind to the allegations made, as the criminal 

 trial is a quest for the truth, to punish the real offenders, based upon 

 
 evidence led in the trial Court. 13. In an appropriate case an aggrieved person can always 
 
 seek a remedy by invoking the power of the High Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution. If the court could be convinced that the 
 

 power of investigation has been exercised by a police officer mala 
 

 fide, a mandamus can be issued restraining the investigator from 

 misusing his legal powers. The same view was reiterated in State of 

 Bihar & Anr.v. J.A.C.Saldanha & Ors., [(1980) 1 SCC 554] wherein 

 the Apex court held that unless an extra-ordinary case of gross abuse 

 of power by those in charge of the investigation is made out, the 

 Court should be quite loath to interfere at the stage of investigation. A field of activity to investigate the crime is well demarcated and 

 statutorily reserved for the police and the executive. The Apex Court 

 also noted that interference at the stage of investigation would be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:22 ::: 92 wp314309

 clear case of usurpation of jurisdiction by the High Court, of that 

 
 which is vested in the Magistrate to take or not to take cognizance of 

 
 the case on the basis of material placed before him. The High Court 

 would have no justification to make observations on seriously 

 
 disputed question of facts merely on the basis of affidavits before it, 

 (without the deponent being cross-examined as to its contents), 

 
 which in such a situation hardly provides any reliable material. The 
 
 interference or direction by the Court at the stage of investigation, 

 virtually amount to a mandamus to close the case before the 
 
 investigation is completed. In State of West Bengal v.Sampat Lal, 

 [(1985) 1 SCC 317] (at page 336 Para 26) the Apex court held that 
 

 the court has residuary power to give appropriate directions to the 
 

 police when the requirements of law are not being complied with and 

 if investigation is not being done properly or is done with undue 

 haste and promptitude. 14. In Abhinandan Jha & Ors.v.Dinesh Mishra, [(1967) 3 

 SCR 668] the Apex Court held, preceding introduction of section 

 173(8) of the Code that the Magistrate cannot direct the police to 

 submit a charge sheet and compel the police to form a particular 

 opinion on investigation and to submit a report according to such ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 ::: 93 wp314309

 opinion. If the police submits a report that no case made out for 

 
 sending up the accused for trial, the court may itself take cognizance 

 
 of the offence on the basis of the report and the accompanying 

 material if it is found that there is sufficient evidence to proceed 

 
 further or may itself conduct or direct the subordinate Magistrate to 

 make further enquiry to take action under section 190 etc. In Nazir 

 
 Ahmed 's case (supra) the Judicial Committee held that the functions 
 
 of the judiciary and the police are complementary, not over-lapping 

 and the combination of individual liberty with due observance of law 
 
 and order is only to be obtained by leaving each to exercise its own 

 functions. The Code demarcates the field of investigation exclusively 
 

 to the executive to be vigilant over law and order. Police officer has 
 

 statutory power and right to investigate the cognizable offence 

 suspected to have been committed by an accused and bring the 

 offenders to book. In respect thereof he needs no authority from a 

 Magistrate or a court except to the extent indicated in sub- section 3 of section 156. Pending the investigation and before submission of 

 the final report under section 173, the Code provides for 

 superintendence by the court sparingly over the investigation and the 

 matters incidental thereto, like enlarging the accused on bail or to 

 secure his presence for further investigation; to record judicial ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 ::: 94 wp314309

 confession under section 164 of the Code or to conduct identification 

 
 parade of the accused or the articles of crime or recording dying 

 
 declaration under section 32 of Evidence Act. 15. The focal point of discussion from the above backdrop is 

 as to whether the charge sheets including supplementary police 

 
 reports are vitiated by the alleged mala fides on the part of either the 
 
 informant or the Investigating Officer Mr.Sudhakar Pujari. Mala fides 

 means want of good faith, personal bias, grudge, oblique or improper 
 
 motive or ulterior purpose. In that case the alternative efficacious 

 remedy to sue the investigating officer for malicious prosecution and 
 

 claim heavy compensation for malicious prosecution /defamation, as 
 

 the case may be, is available to the Petitioner if according to him he 

 has been named as a suspect by the investigating officer in the case 

 without any basis whatsoever (i. e. in the absence of any reasonable 

 or probable cause) and is prosecuted for to defame him. The 

 investigating officer is protected for action taken in good faith and his 

 administrative action must be presumed to have been done in good 

 faith, if it is in fact done honestly, whether it is done negligently or 

 not. 95 wp314309 16. The Investigating Officer has wide powers under the 

 
 criminal procedure code. He has to perform his duties honestly, 

 sincerely with the sole object of unearthing the truth, investigating in 

 
 to all allegations made. In the course of the investigation he has to 

 take into consideration the relevant material whether against or in 

 
 favor of the accused. Simply because the investigating officer, while 
 
 acting bona fide rules out certain documents as irrelevant, is no 

 ground to assume that he acted mala fide. The police-report 
 
 submitted by the investigating officer has to pass through the judicial 

 scrutiny of a Magistrate at the stage of taking cognizance. The 
 

 accused person has no right to be heard at that stage but in case the 
 

 accused person has any grievances against the investigating officer or 

 with the method of investigation he can bring them to the notice of 

 the trial judge concerned, his grievances can be looked into by the 

 trial judge. As the police report under section 173 Cr. P.C. has to go 

 through the judicial scrutiny, in my opinion it is not open to the High 

 Court to find fault with the Government of India approved prescribed 

 formats of the Chargesheet/Final Report Form (Under Section 173 

 Cr. P.C.) used by the State Government, prematurely on the ground 

 that during the investigation certain more persons were also ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 ::: 96 wp314309

 suspected by the investigating officer of the commission of offence 

 
 more so when the notification concerned is not under Challenge in 

 
 this petition. 17. State Government's Notification no.COM.0195/POL. 4/1/POL.4 dated 18-03-1997 required the State Police to adopt the 

 
 prescribed forms for FIR, Crime detail form, Arrest/Court surrender 
 
 memo, Final report Form, Court disposal memo form, Result of 

 Appeal form , in place of existing forms. Constitutionality of the State 
 
 Government's Notification prescribing forms to be used by the Police, 

 which was approved by the Central Government of India, is not the 
 

 subject matter of challenge in this Petition. The Notification referred 
 

 above was issued to bring about the uniformity in standards of 

 investigation and procedure and to ensure better co ordination in 

 respect of it. It aids the investigator to furnish vital information to the 

 Trial court concerned, without missing any, by adopting procedure 

 established by law. 18. Undoubtedly, the arms of the High Court are long 

 enough, while exercising its prerogative discretionary power under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India, to remedy the injustice wherev- 97 wp314309

 er it is found in the judicial or quasi-judicial process of any court or 

 
 Tribunal or authority within its jurisdiction. But the extra ordinary 

 
 power to interfere may not be used requiring the investigating officer 

 to drop the details required to be furnished as per the government 

 
 prescribed format of the charge sheet submitted to the Magistrate or 

 pending for consideration by the trial court concerned. In my opin- ion, under Section 173 of the Code, upon completion of investigation, 
 
 the investigating officer can not be prevented from disclosing to the 

 Court, the names of the persons by whom the offence appears to have 
 
 been committed, irrespective of the nomenclature given by him to 

 such persons, whether as accused or suspects, charge sheeted or not 
 

 charge sheeted. The extra ordinary power used by the High Court 
 

 has to be necessarily hedged with self imposed limitations to use it in 

 a very exceptional case. When and under which circumstances would 

 a High Court be justified to quash the charge-sheet once cognizance 

 of the offence is already taken by the criminal court is the question of 

 crucial importance, to be judged in particular facts on the basis of 

 mala fides of the complainant or investigating officer and strictly on 

 merits. In my opinion, the fate of the criminal trial can not be left 

 entirely in the hands of the parties to the proceedings once the com- petent trial court is in seisin of the case. The court taking cognizance ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 ::: 98 wp314309

 of the offence or trying the case can permit further investigation in to 

 
 offences alleged in view of section 173(8) of the Code. The trial court 

 
 has, in view of section 319 of the Code, undoubted jurisdiction to add 

 any person not being the accused before it, to indict him before it to 

 
 face the trial along with other charge sheeted accused persons, if the 

 Court is satisfied at any stage of the proceeding on the evidence 

 
 adduced that the persons who have not been arrayed as accused 
 
 should face the trial. As held in Sohanlal & others Vs. State of 

 Rajasthan reported in AIR 1990 Supreme Court 2158, the Apex 
 
 Court interpreted and observed that crucial words in the section 319 

 of Cr.P. Code are, 'any person not being the accused.' This section 
 

 empowers the Court to proceed against persons not being the 
 

 accused appearing to be guilty of offence. Sub-ss. 1 and 2 of this 

 section provide for a situation when a Court hearing a case against 

 certain accused person finds from the evidence that some 

 person or persons, other than the accused before it is or are 

 also connected in the very offence or any connected offence; it 

 empowers the court to proceed against such person or persons for the 

 offence which he or they appears or appear to have committed and 

 issue process for the purpose. It provides that the cognizance against 

 newly added accused is deemed to have been taken in the same ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 ::: 99 wp314309

 manner in which cognizance was first taken of the offence against 

 
 the earlier accused. It naturally deals with a matter arising from the 

 
 course of the proceeding already initiated .The term 'evidence' 

 includes examination in chief, upon which the Court may form prima 

 
 facie view to summon additional accused. It is settled legal position 

 by now that the word "evidence" occurring in sub-section (1) of 

 
 Section 319 is used in comprehensive and broad sense which would 
 
 also include the material collected by the investigating officer and the 

 evidence which comes before the Court and from which the Court is 
 
 satisfied that person not arraigned before it is involved in the 

 commission of the crime. The Trial Court need not wait till the end of 
 

 trial to indict additional accused. It is always open for the court suo 
 

 motu or for the prosecution to apply to implead/indict suspected 

 persons as accused, dependent on the conclusions upon completion 

 of investigation or inquiry. The court may direct further investigation 

 under Section 173(8). Thus trial Court conducting the case may pass 

 appropriate orders to indict the additional accused and compel his 

 presence before the Court. The object being that the whole case 

 against all known suspects/accused must proceed expeditiously, 

 without requirement of any additional/simultaneous trial. The trial ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 ::: 100 wp314309

 Court may, for want of sufficient ground to proceed against any 

 
 accused, discharge the accused if accusation is found groundless , if 

 
 the accused is charge sheeted and if such grievance is made before 

 it .The trial Court can drop the proceedings against the Petitioner at 

 
 the stage of the opening address itself (vide Section 226 Cr. P. 

 Code )in the trial if no any evidence is proposed against the 

 
 Petitioner and there is no reasonable or probable ground to proceed 
 
 further against him. It is open for the Petitioner to claim discharge 

 from the case if there is no sufficient ground to proceed against him. The trial Court has option to proceed further if there is ground to 

 presume that the accused has committed the offence; in that case it 
 

 can decide to frame the charge in the trial even on the basis of 
 

 suspicion, if it is strong and grave enough to lead the court to believe 

 involvement of the accused before it. In my opinion, therefore, 

 without suppressing any material fact from the Court the name of 

 suspect by whom the offence in question appears to have been 

 committed must be mentioned in the final report, with reasons for 

 such final opinion of the investigating officer and material supporting 

 it must be disclosed to the trial Court by the investigating officer in 

 his final police report to the Court (Special Court in this case) giving 

 all the particulars and vital information under section 173 of the Cr. 101 wp314309

 P.Code. In the result no fault can be found with the investigating 

 
 officer if he names the person as suspect pending the investigation 

 
 against him, who in his opinion appears to have committed the 

 offence but could not be charge sheeted for want of an opportunity to 

 
 arrest and interrogate him. At this stage when investigation is still 

 pending against the Petitioner it would be premature to exonerate 

 
 the Petitioner on the pretext of infringement of his reputation. The 
 
 question which is raised of Personal liberty or fundamental right of 

 the Petitioner is to be examined on the basis of finding as to 
 
 whether due process of law and procedure has been followed as 

 against him. It would amount to pre- judging the question, bearing 
 

 in mind that the petitioner has continued to dodge the investigating 
 

 officer, by his ingenuity to file the writ petitions and deprived the 

 investigating officer from arresting and investigating against him for 

 prolonged period, while petitioner was armed with interim order 

 'not to arrest him'. The answer to the question raised above therefore 

 has to be in the negative. But, to have a speedy trial is implicit in Art. 21 as fundamental right of any accused in a serious criminal case and 

 therefore the trial court shall proceed, to hear, try and decide the 

 case efficiently in accordance with law and on its own merits. As the 

 trial is pending since long, the learned special Judge in seisin of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 ::: 102 wp314309

 trial shall make endeavour to dispose of the case expeditiously, as 

 
 early as possible from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. The 

 
 petitioner has alternative efficacious remedy to plead for his 

 discharge from the case. The trial Court can always consider such a 

 
 plea. The petition shall stand dismissed accordingly. Rule is 

 discharged. Certified copies of the affidavits filed in this petition 

 
 along with copy of this order shall be sent to the Special Court for its 
 
 information and action as it may deem fit under the circumstances. (A.P.BHANGALE, J.) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:47:23 :::