The following applications have been filed seeking for various reliefs: 2.A suit had been initiated by the plaintiff seeking for the following reliefs: 3.The case of the plaintiff is that the plaintiff is a licensed Health Insurer

 providing health insurance products to retail and corporate customers across India.

 The plaintiff has about 815 branches in India and a network of more than 462

 brokers who directly reach out to the customers and extend insurance covers that

 suit their requirements. Apart from the aforesaid conventional methods, the

 plaintiff had also launched an application called “Star Power” which is a part of its

 digital expansion so that the prospective and the existing customers can meet their

 requirements of buying policies or lodging claim through the said application. 3/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 4.The plaintiff is also a listed company and functioning of the plaintiff is

 subject to the regulation of SEBI apart from IRDAI. The IRDAI had issued

 guidelines in the year 2017 for ensuring the safety, security and integrity of

 automatic data processing systems, privacy of data and also to provide adequate

 internal mechanisms for reviewing, monitoring and evaluating its control

 procedures and safeguards. To comply with the guidelines issued by the IRDAI,

 the applicant has appointed an External Auditor who will conduct annual audits

 about the system of the applicant. The plaintiff is also registered with CERT-In, a

 National Nodal Agency of the Ministry of Information Technology which was

 constituted to respond to the computer security incidents as and when they occur.

 The E-Commerce web adopted by the plaintiff follows advanced Encryption

 Standard 256 which secures personal information of its customers. It has also

 engaged the services of Cognizant Services which through its team of ethical

 hackers check the vulnerability of the systems from time to time and ascertain

 weakness through continuous testing methods and to take steps to fix the areas of

 weakness in the light of newer threats and system developments and hacking tools

 that are developed by the cyber attackers. 4/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 5.While that be so, the defendants claiming to be Cyber Security Experts

 operating under the banner of CyberX9 seem to have illegally accessed I.T. and

 the data system of the plaintiff and that they claim to be in possession of sensitive

 data relating to the customers. The plaintiff had received an email on 19.12.2022

 from the first defendant who claimed himself to be the Founder and the Managing

 Director of CyberX9, the said email contained an attachment called Vulnerabilities

 Report. The email further claimed that the systems of the plaintiff are exposed as

 extreme critical security vulnerabilities and that they had intended to publish the

 same to raise awareness about the importance of data security. 6.It is also the case of the plaintiff that it had not authorised the defendants

 to verify the vulnerability of the system. When no such authorization has been

 given, the defendants could not have conducted any vulnerability test on the

 system of the plaintiff which therefore would amount to illegal hacking of the

 system. The Vulnerability Report submitted by the defendants would show that it

 had used a tool called 'Burp Suite' to penetrate I.T. and the data systems of the

 applicant. These tools are being used by hackers to gain illegal and unauthorized

 access to I.T. and the data system of the applicant. 5/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 7.The case of the plaintiff is that based upon the Vulnerability Report, it is

 clear that the defendants have accessed the system and had taken out various

 details of its customers which is completely illegal and therefore, they have

 initiated the present suit. 8.Heard Mr.R.Shankaranayanan, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

 Mr.N.P.Vijay Kumar, learned counsel for the applicant and Mr.Vijay Narayan,

 learned Senior Counsel appearing for Mr.Keerthikiran Murali, learned counsel for

 the first respondent. 9.Mr.R.Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Counsel would submit that the act

 of the defendants in accessing the system of the applicant is without any

 authorization from the applicant. He would draw the attention of this Court to

 various provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred

 to as “Act”) particularly Section 2(a)(i) , (j) & z(e), Section 43 and Section 66 . He

 would submit that the Act prohibits any person to access or secure access to a

 computer, computer system or computer network without the permission of the

 owner or any other person who is incharge of them. If such access is being made,

 then such person would be liable for penalty under Section 43 and for a 6/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 punishment of imprisonment with fine as per Section 66 . He would further submit

 that the term accessed computer, computer system and computer network have all

 been defined under the Act. In the present case, he would submit that admittedly

 the defendants have accessed the computer network and computer system without

 authorization of the applicant. This is clearly evident from the email that had been

 received by the applicant from the first defendant enclosing a Vulnerability

 Report. 10.He would also submit that the said email or the Report had not been

 disputed by the respondents and it is not their case that they had got an

 authorization from the applicant to perform such accesses. He would further

 submit that the defendants claim to be a Cyber Security Organization which

 conducts research in cyber security and hence, the respondents are well aware of

 the implications of the Act. In such circumstances, the action of the defendants are

 in clear violation of the aforesaid statute. He would further submit that if the

 defendants had intended to verify the vulnerability of the applicant they ought to

 have approached the applicant for permission/authorization for conducting such a

 vulnerability test. Therefore, he would term the act of the respondents as illegal 7/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 which would warrant penalty and punishment as per the provisions of the Sections

 43 and 66 of the said Act. 11.He would further submit that the respondents are threatening publication

 of the Vulnerability Report which had been illegally accessed by them. Such

 publication would not only cause damage and reputation to the applicant but also

 would perpetuate the illegality committed by the respondents. The respondents are

 only trying to unjustly enrich themselves by calling upon the applicant to utilize

 their services. The conduct of the respondents are condemnable and therefore, the

 present injunction is sought for apart from the appointment of Advocate

 Commissioner to seize the materials that are available with the respondents. 12.Countering his arguments, Mr.Vijay Narayan, learned Senior Counsel

 would submit that the first respondent herein runs a proprietorship concern under

 the name and style of CyberX9. He had been actively involved in politics and has

 also played a major contribution as being in charge of the Parliament Elections in

 the State of Punjab for a political party. The respondents provide various services

 such as monitoring the computer systems, web application penetration testing,

 mobile application penetration testing, cloud penetration testing and external 8/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 penetration testing etc. Such services are being offered by the respondents to the

 private as well as the Government Agencies. 13.He would further submit that the respondent is also in legitimate

 business of providing world class cyber security services to its clients, pursuant to

 the research that has been carried out by the respondents. The respondents at

 random checks the third party company websites/data systems for their

 vulnerability and if it is found that there is vulnerability, the respondents would

 intimate them about such vulnerability and would offer to rectify such

 vulnerabilities. The research carried out by the respondents is not in any way to

 cause damage to the system and data of such companies. By doing such research

 and also publishing such articles of vulnerability, the respondent establishes its

 place in the market. In the process, the respondents use a 'Burp Suite' developed

 and maintained by a third party which is available in the market on payment of

 cost. Therefore, any individual or company would be able to hack into any one's

 system if they are not securely placed. 14.He would also submit that such a vulnerability test had been conducted

 by the respondents in the past and considering the applicant's experience and 9/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 knowledge in which such companies have also provided contracts to the

 respondents to arrest the vulnerability which has also been successfully completed

 by the respondents. He would further claim that the first respondent and his wife

 are also beneficiaries of the insurance policies provided by the applicant and

 therefore to check the vulnerability of the applicant, the respondent had caused

 upon a test and found that the personal information belonging to the first

 respondent and his wife were not secure. He would further submit that it is a duty

 of the company to protect such confidential information and if they do not have a

 secure system, the public particularly the customers of the applicant are entitled to

 know that the system of the applicant is not secure. 15.He would further submit that today we are living in a world where

 privacy is considered to be right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India

 which will have to be protected. The respondents had not leaked any data accessed

 by it. What all the respondents had done was informed to the applicant, as to the

 vulnerability and sought to rectify the same. It is always open to the applicant

 either to avail the services of the respondents or to reject the same. But, the

 applicant cannot stop the respondents to go to the public atleast to say that the

 system of the applicant is not secure. He would refute the allegations of the 10/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 applicant that the respondents are trying to extort money using threat. The

 respondents are only provide the services for rectifying the vulnerability. 16.Learned Senior Counsel would also rely upon a judgment of the Hon'ble

 Apex Court in the case of Reliance Petrochemicals Ltd. vs. Proprietors of Indian

 Express Newspapers, Bombay Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. reported in 1988 4 SCC 592 to

 contend that right to know is a basic right which citizens of a free country aspire.

 Relying upon the aforesaid judgment, he would submit that the respondents should

 be permitted atleast to publish the vulnerability of the applicant's system. He

 would also further rely upon a judgment of this Court in the case of Kanimozhi

 Karunanidhi and Ors. vs. Thiru.P.Varadarajan and Ors. made in A.No.871 of

 2014 dated 16.05.2018. 17.The right to privacy and the right to freedom of speech should be always

 tested on elements of public interest. The right to know of the vulnerability in the

 present case is a right of every citizen or at least a right of every customer of the

 applicant and therefore, he would seek dismissal of the applications filed by the

 applicant. 11/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 18.I have considered the rival submission made by the learned Senior

 counsel for the respective parties and perused the materials available on record

 before this Court. 19.Neither the applicant nor the defendants have disputed the facts of the

 case and it is admitted by both the parties that the respondents had accessed the

 computer system of the applicant. This has been categorically admitted to by them

 in the counter filed by them to the interim applications. This Court will have to

 analyse as to whether such an intrusion of the respondents into the computer

 system has been legally done. If not, whether the respondents could be permitted

 to disclose the findings of such access. 20. The Act had been enacted with an object of promoting e-governance.

 The said Act was further amended in the year 2008 with an object to curb various

 crimes, breach of confidentiality and leakage of data by intermediary and e-

 commerce frauds etc. The access has been defined by the Act which means gaining

 entry into, instructing or communicating with the logical, arithmetical, or memory

 function resources of a computer, computer system or computer network. The

 computer network system or computer system has also been defined under the Act. 12/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 A reading of the said definition would show that a computer network means

 interconnection of one or more computers or computer systems or communication

 device through and that the computer system would include a device or collection

 of devices, including input and output support devices and excluding calculators

 which are not programmable and capable of being used in conjunction with

 external files, which contain computer programmes, electronic instructions, input

 data, and output data, that performs logic, arithmetic, data storage and retrieval,

 communication control and other functions. In the present case, the respondents

 have admittedly accessed the computer system of the applicant. This has not been

 denied by the respondents in fact they had taken pride in such action to gain

 reputation in the market. 21. Section 43 of the said Act provides penalty against any person without

 permission of the owner or any other person who is incharge of a computer,

 computer system or computer network accesses or secure accesses to such

 computer, computer system or computer network and also downloads, copies or

 extracts any data, computer data base or information from such computer,

 computer system or computer network including information or data held or stored

 in any removable storage medium. In the present case, admittedly, the respondents 13/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 had accessed the computer system and seems to have downloaded the datas from

 the applicant's computer system. 22.This is an act prima facie not only attracts penalty under Section 43 but it

 is also an offence punishable with imprisonment under Section 66 of the Act.

 Therefore, I am prima facie of the view that the act of the respondents in accessing

 and downloading the data of the applicant is illegal as being contrary to the Act.

 What the respondents now seek is to permit it to publish the vulnerability of the

 applicant based upon the aforesaid illegal act. This in my opinion would only

 perpetuate the illegality committed by the applicant to gain reputation. 23.The reason given by the respondents to give such publication is to gain

 reputation. The respondents cannot act in violation of a statute for which he is

 liable to be punished and claim that he should be permitted to publish such illegal

 activity. 24.Hence, I am of the view that the injunction as prayed for should be

 granted since it is an admitted fact that the respondents had accessed the system of

 the applicant and claims to have certain details of its customers. Further an

 application seeking for an Advocate Commissioner with the help of Technical 14/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Expert to inspect the computer system of the respondents and to procure the

 information that had been downloaded by them in respect of the applicant is also

 required to be allowed. 25.Hence, Ms.Dhanwanthi Arumugam, Advocate, No.137, Additional Law

 Chambers, High Court, Chennai – 600 104, (Mobile No.7358172505) is appointed

 as an Advocate Commissioner, he shall take the assistance of the Technical Expert

 and the respondents shall permit the said Advocate Commissioner and the

 Technical Expert to have access to its system to find out various details that had

 been downloaded by the respondents pursuant to its admitted access to the

 applicant's system on retrieving such data, the datas available in the applicant's

 system shall be stored in a pen drive and hand it over to the Registrar General of

 this Court upon making a copy of the data of the applicant's system available in

 the respondents shall also be permanently deleted and the Advocate Commissioner

 is directed to file a Report along with the Report of the Technical Expert. 26.The Advocate Commissioner shall be entitled for an initial remuneration

 of Rs.50,000/-. The applicant shall also bear the actual cost and expenses in

 engaging the Technical Experts and also other incidental expenses as borne out by 15/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 the bills to be submitted by the Advocate Commissioner. The Report of the

 Advocate Commissioner shall be filed on or before 31.07.2023. Such expenses

 shall be borne by the applicant & the same shall be subject to the result in the suit. 27.In fine, the applications are allowed. 07.06.2023
 pam 16/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 K.KUMARESH BABU, J. pam

 Pre-delivery Common order in O.A.No.3 of 2023 and A.No.17 of 2023 in C.S.No.1 of 2023 07.06.2023 17/17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis