A software glitch in digital payments company MobiKwik’s systems allowed users to siphon off around Rs 40 crore via multiple Unified Payments interface (UPI) transactions, according to a report by the Times of India.

A MobiKwik employee reported the financial breach on September 13, following an internal audit that detected suspicious transactions on September 11 and 12.

So far, law enforcement authorities have arrested six men, five from Nuh, Haryana and one from Palwal, Haryana, whose accounts held Rs 9 lakh of the siphoned-off amount. The police have sent these men, namely Rehan, Waqar Yunus, Wasim Akram, Mohd Amir, Mohd Ansar, and Mohd Sakil, to judicial custody and may make further arrests.

For context, the glitch appeared after the digital payments firm updated its software earlier this month. This update reportedly allowed MobiKwik users to send much higher amounts relative to their digital wallet balances. Transactions were also successful even if a user entered the wrong Personal Identification Number (PIN).

“We don’t know yet how the scamsters learned about the flaw. Insider involvement is being probed,” a police source told the The Times Of India.

Law enforcement authorities also confirmed that they had frozen Rs 8 crore across various bank accounts, and identified 2,500 beneficiaries related to this scam

Police spokesperson Ashok Kumar said that strict action would be taken against any MobiKwik employee found complicit in this crime.

Meanwhile, Nuh Police on Tuesday urged people to report any unexplained digital transactions on September 11 and 12.

“If anyone received transactions on Sept 11 and 12 due to technical security lapses or other reasons via the Mobikwik app or received unauthorised payments through the app and wishes to return them, or has any complaints related to such transactions, they can visit the office of the SP. People from Palwal district and other Mewat areas can also come,” Nuh Police stated.

Law enforcement has registered the present MobiKwik case under Sections 318(4) (cheating) and 314 (dishonest misappropriation of property) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS). The police are coordinating with banks to identify others who benefited from the alleged fraud and recover the stolen amount.

A MobiKwik spokesperson said the company is pursuing aggressive recovery efforts along with legal action. The digital payments firm has recovered Rs 14 crore so far.

“The company is undertaking all possible and necessary efforts to recover the amount. However, since the police investigation and recovery efforts have just started, it’s not yet possible to ascertain the impact,” the spokesperson stated.

“Based on the preliminary data, as a risk mitigating measure, the FIR was lodged for an amount of Rs 40 crore, out of which, the company has recovered Rs 14 crore. Thus, the estimated net impact is Rs 26 crore. The company is taking aggressive collection efforts while pursuing [a] legal course of action to recover the full amount over a period of time,” they added.

This is not the first time that MobiKwik has faced a financial breach. In 2017, the digital payments company suffered a financial fraud amounting to Rs 19 crore, which perpetrators moved into personal bank accounts via mass transfers.

In the present case, the latest financial fraud occurred through mass-level UPI transactions.

Interestingly, MobiKwik reported a 53% increase in its Gross Merchandise Value (GMV) for Q1FY26 , attributing it to the rising contribution of UPI transactions.

The company’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Komal Sharan, noted that Pocket UPI was a growing segment from a revenue perspective. To explain, the Pocket UPI service allows people to make UPI payments directly through their MobiKwik wallet, rather than their bank accounts.

When asked about this service’s revenue potential, MobiKwik said that it would be unable to provide particular details.

“But I think suffice it to say that at the rate at which UPI and within that Pocket UPI is growing, it would be a significant number by the time it comes through and with the pace that we are growing,” Sharan explained.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event