All the Kolkatta based allottees uniformly mentioned
about your having approached them for sale of their
shares aggregating 1,08,00,000 shares. You played a key
role in disposal of allotments of the said allottees. 2. As advised by you: Shri Jitendra Aggrawal
(representative of M/s Royal Bengal Exports and M/s
Savara Tieup, both Kolkatta based preferential allottees)
had issued sales bills in favour of entities namely M/s
DKG Buildcon P. Ltd. and M/s JP Promoters P. Ltd.,
which are represented by you. 3. You approached the Kolkatta based allotees
apparently at the instance of management of Padmini and
executed the disposal of their shares, which is evidenced
by the following: ... Before we analyse the show cause notice, it is necessary to refer to the reply

furnished by the appellant and the stand taken by him in his letter dated January

15, 2004. By this letter which was described as his preliminary reply, he denied

all the allegations levelled in the show cause notice and asked the Board to supply

him with copies of all the statements of the allottees which were recorded during 6 the course of the investigations and which were sought to be relied upon against

him. He also demanded cross examination of the persons who had made

statements against him. The appellant was furnished copies of most of the

documents he had asked for. He then filed his detailed reply on 17.6.2005

controverting every allegation that was made against him and further demanded

the cross examination of the representatives of Padmini as well. On a

consideration of the material collected during the course of the investigations and

the statements of some of the Kolkatta based allottees, the whole time member by

a composite order recorded common findings against all the 74 entities including

the appellant which were allegedly involved in the manipulation of the scrip of

Padmini holding them all guilty of the alleged violations. By his order dated

March 31, 2007 he prohibited all the entities including the appellant from buying,

selling and dealing in securities and also from accessing the capital market in any

capacity whatsoever for a period of five years with effect from the date of the

order. It is against this order that Shri. Sanjay Kumar Gupta has filed the present

appeal. We will now examine the show cause notice reproduced in the earlier part

of our order. All that it says is that preferential allotment was made in favour of

Kolkatta and Delhi based entities as referred to in annexure I thereto and that the

payment for allotment was mostly received after the shares were listed on the

Delhi Stock Exchange. It is further alleged that the appellant approached the

Kolkatta based allottees for the sale of their shares and this he did at the instance

of Padmini and that he played a key role in the disposal of their shares. On the

basis of these allegations it is further alleged that he "played an active role in

facilitating the irregular preferential allotment process and subsequent stock

market operations with the help of preferential allotment shares." It is also

pointed out in the show cause notice that payments against the sale of allotments

were in some cases received from entities other than the ones to whom the sales

were made at the instance of the appellant. There is no other allegation made 7 against the appellant in the show cause notice. These allegations even if taken as

true, do not, in our opinion, make out any culpable charge against the appellant.

So what if the appellant approached Kolkatta based allottees to sell their shares.

This by itself cannot be a charge unless it is further alleged that he had knowledge

of the fact that the shares allotted to them were irregular/illegal and without

payment of allotment money. This knowledge has not been attributed to the

appellant in the show cause notice. The other allegation in the show cause notice

is that he was managing M/s. DKG Buildcon Pvt. Ltd. having its office at D2, Bal

Udyan Road, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi and that he was residing at L-53 Bal

Udyan Road, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi which is also the address of M/s. JP

Promoters Pvt. Ltd. (a Delhi based allottee). DKG Buildcon is a company which

purchased the shares from Royal Bengal Exports which is a Kolkatta based

allottee. This is clear from Annexure II to the show cause notice. The show

cause notice further mentions that the appellant had acknowledged to the Board

that he was an authorized representative of these two companies. The fact that he

is an authorized representative in his professional capacity is not disputed before

us. He has, however, disputed that he manages M/s. DKG Buildcon Pvt. Ltd. as

alleged in the show cause notice. The impugned order upholds the allegation that

he is managing these companies alongwith some others only on the basis that he

appeared on their behalf as a chartered accountant before the income tax

authorities. The appellant is a chartered accountant by profession and merely

because he represented any company or companies before the tax authorities, it

cannot be inferred that he was managing those companies. The case of the

appellant is that these companies belong to his close relatives and friends and that

he is not even a shareholder muchless a director in any of these companies. The

impugned order does not record any finding as to whether the appellant was a

director or even a shareholder in any of these companies. We are, therefore,

proceeding on the assumption that he was their authorized representative in his

professional capacity as a chartered accountant as acknowledged by him to the 8 Board and in regard to which there is a recital in the show cause notice. There is

nothing wrong in his being an authorized representative of these companies as a

chartered accountant. The show cause notice after alleging that at the instance of

Padmini the appellant approached the Kolkatta allottees to sell their shares, states

that he facilitated the irregular allotment process and subsequent stock market

operations. Allotment of irregular preferential shares is one thing and their

subsequent sale is another. Assuming, that the appellant was instrumental in

selling the shares of Kolkatta allottees as alleged, would not by itself mean that he

was also responsible for their irregular allotment. He could be but the show cause

notice must say how. Admittedly, the allotment was made by Padmini and it is

not said in the show cause notice that the appellant had any concern or connection

with that company. There is no finding in the impugned order that he was in any

way connected with Padmini. All that is said is that he had been authorized by

Padmini to approach the Kolkatta allottees for the disposal of their shares. In the

case of DKG Builcon Pvt. Ltd. it is said in the notice that the appellant was

managing it. Not a word is said about his connection with Padmini. How could

he then be responsible for the irregular allotment which has to be the internal

affair of that company. We have already noticed that the show cause notice does

not attribute to the appellant knowledge of illegal allotment in favour of the

allottees. On the basis of the role allegedly played by the appellant as referred to

in the show cause notice, one cannot conclude that he was also a party to the

irregular / illegal preferential allotment when no connection is alleged between

him and Padmini. The only other allegation made in the show cause notice is that

proceeds of the shares sold at the instance of the appellant had been received

from persons other than those to whom the sales were made. It is pointed out that

this averment does not appear to be correct when we look at Annexure II to the

show cause notice. The appellant is the authorized representative of DKG

Buildcon and JP Promoters as stated in the show cause notice. Both these

companies purchased shares from Royal Bengal Exports and Savera Tieup - the 9 Kolkatta based allottees. The annexure shows that the payments were made by

these very entities. In the case of some other purchasers from Kolkatta based

allottees, the Annexure shows that payments have been received from entities

other than the purchasers. How is the appellant concerned if in some cases

payments were made by persons other than those who purchased the shares. The

appellant is only alleged to have prevailed upon the Kolkatta based allottees to

dispose of their shares. Even if the companies of which he was the authorized

representative had purchased the shares or made payments on behalf of some

other purchasers, the appellant is not concerned and cannot be held responsible.

In this view of the matter, we have no hesitation to hold that the show cause

notice read with the Annexures attached thereto does not establish a charge

against the appellant. Be that as it may, the charge in such proceedings which are

bound to have serious repercussions has to be precise and unambiguous levelling

allegations very clearly so that the delinquent knows what case he has to meet.

This is the basic and minimum requirement of fair play. We are satisfied that the

show cause notice states the allegations in vague and general terms. This is what

their Lordships observed in Canara Bank and others vs. Debasis Das and others (2003) 4 SCC 557 : Since then the principle has been chiselled, honed and refined,
 enriching its content, Judicial treatment has added light and
 luminosity to the concept, like polishing of a diamond. 16. Principles of natural justice are those rules which have
 been laid down by the courts as being the minimum protection of
 the rights of the individual against the arbitrary procedure that
 may be adopted by a judicial, quasi-judicial and administrative
 authority while making an order affecting those rights. These
 rules are intended to prevent such authority from doing injustice." Similar view was taken in B.D. Gupta vs. State of Haryana ( 1973) 3 SCC 149

and A Sudhakar vs. Post Master General and anr. (2006) 4 SCC 348. We may now deal with the other contentions raised by Shri. Shyam Mehta

learned counsel for the appellant. We have seen the show cause notice and it is

alleged therein that the appellant had approached at the instance of Padmini,

Kolkatta based allottees to dispose of their shares. This is the role alleged to have

been played by the appellant. Soon after receiving the show cause notice the

appellant addressed a letter dated January 15, 2004 to the Board denying all the

allegations and stated that before he could file his parawise reply he required

some documents the details of which were mentioned therein. These included the

statements of various Kolkatta based allottees who had stated that the appellant

had approached them to dispose of their shares. In this letter he also demanded

that "I should be allowed to cross examine all the persons on whose

statements and evidences you are relying upon." After the receipt of

documents he filed his detailed reply in June 2005 and submitted that "I have

never met your so-called Kolkatta based allottees till today in my life time."

The argument of the learned counsel for the appellant is that the Board recorded a

finding on this issue against the appellant solely on the statements made by the

Kolkatta based allottees without allowing the appellant to cross examine them and 11 this, according to him, violated the principles of natural justice. We find merit in

this submission. The core issue to be decided in this regard was whether the

appellant had approached the Kolkatta based allottees for the disposal of their

shares. If he had not, the entire case against him would fall. We have already

seen his reply and he has denied having ever met them. The Kolkatta based

allottees during the course of the investigations had stated that the appellant had

approached them for the disposal of their shares. They have not been cross

examined. There is no documentary evidence on the record to substantiate this

fact. It is only the oral statement made by the Kolkatta based allottees. The

appellant contends to the contrary. Since it is a case of accepting the word of one

party against the other, the least that the Board was required to do was to have

allowed the appellant to cross examine those persons particularly when such a

request had been made. That was the only way in which the truth could come out.

Without allowing such an opportunity, the Board has chosen to accept the word of

the Kolkatta based allottees. This is unfair and amounts to denying a reasonable

opportunity to the appellant to defend himself in the enquiry. The Kolkatta based

allottees have also been charged for having received irregular allotment and are

being punished by the impugned order. They could possibly have a motive to

shift the burden on to the appellant and implicate him. It was, therefore,

necessary in the facts and circumstances of this case to allow the appellant to

cross examine those persons who had stated that they sold their shares on the

asking of the appellant. Shri. Kumar Desai learned counsel for the respondent

contended that before the impugned order was passed, the whole time member

had called upon the appellant to appear in person and make submissions before

him. He referred to the letter dated December 13, 2005 issued to the appellant in

this regard. The appellant was required to appear on December 15, 2005. It

appears that the final hearing in the case was being adjourned from time to time

and the appellant was being required to appear in person to make oral 12 submissions. The appellant received another letter dated 23.8.2006 for a personal

hearing to which he replied as under : These issues did not arise in the case of the appellant. It is axiomatic that when

you ask wrong questions, the answers are bound to be wrong. Issue (a) as referred

to above was not the charge levelled against the appellant in the show cause

notice issued to him. It was never alleged against him that he had either

individually or acting in concert with any other person facilitated Ketan Parekh 14 or his entities in manipulating the market in the scrip of Padmini. The name of

Ketan Parekh appears in the show cause notice issued to the appellant but in a

totally different context. To recapitulate, it is stated in the show cause notice that

" cheques of preferential allottees were cleared after receiving proceeds from

Ketan Parekh entities after listing of the shares." We have already noticed that

the appellant was not an allottee but only an authorized representative of two

companies which had been allotted shares. Common findings have been recorded

in the impugned order deciding issue (a) against all the entities including the

appellant. This is where the whole time member has faulted. Since the appellant

had a different role from the other entities, his case should have been dealt with

separately even if a composite order was to be passed. He could not be clubbed

with others. As regards issue (b) referred to in para 2.7 of the impugned order,

again no such allegation has been made in the show cause notice qua the

appellant. It is no where alleged that the appellant had violated the provisions of

the Securities Contracts Regulation Act, 1956 . Since common findings have been

recorded against all the entities, the appellant is right in contending that the

findings against him are wholly beyond the show cause notice. For the reasons recorded above, we allow the appeal and set aside the

impugned order. No costs. Sd/- Justice N.K. Sodhi
 Presiding Officer

 Sd/- Arun Bhargava
 Member

 Sd/- Utpal Bhattacharya
 Member
8.7.2008
bk/-