United States Senators Lindsey Graham and Elizabeth Warren on July 27 proposed a new bill that envisions the creation of a Digital Consumer Protection Commission with the ambit of reining in Big Tech.

“I have heard too many stories from families who feel helpless in the face of Big Tech. Stories about children being bullied to the point of committing suicide. Human trafficking. Exploitation of minors. All the while the social media platforms look the other way. Today, we take the first step and provide consumers with the tools they need to begin leveling the playing field. A regulatory commission will give consumers a voice against Big Tech and the power to punish them when appropriate.” — Lindsey Graham

Why does this matter: The US is home to the most prominent tech companies (Google, Meta, Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, etc.), but its regulations for these companies lag behind global counterparts like the European Union. Over the last few years, multiple bills have been proposed to address issues concerning Big Tech, but they all still remain just that—proposals. There is nothing to indicate that this latest bill, the Digital Consumer Protection Commission Act, will be any different, but what the bill proposes is still worth studying because it appears to be an all-in-one bill covering aspects ranging from privacy to competition to content moderation, and could be useful for other countries that are framing their own regulations for tech companies.

It’s time to rein in Big Tech. And we can’t do it with a law that only nibbles around the edges of the problem. Piecemeal efforts to stop abusive and dangerous practices have failed. Congress is too slow, it lacks the tech expertise, and the army of Big Tech lobbyists can pick…

— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) July 27, 2023

According to the press release shared by Elizabeth Warren, the bill provides a framework for the following:

1. Establishment of Digital Consumer Protection Commission: The proposed Digital Consumer Protection Commission will be “an independent, bipartisan regulator charged with policing the biggest tech platforms, like Facebook, Google, and Amazon, to protect consumers, promote competition, secure Americans’ privacy, guard national security, and prevent harm online.” It will consist of five commissioners appointed by the US President for five-year terms. The Commission will have the power to carry out investigations of misconduct, impose penalties, prescribe rules, etc.

2. Licensing of dominant platforms: The bill requires dominant platforms to be licensed and allows the Digital Consumer Protection Commission to revoke licenses of companies that engage in repeated and egregious violations of the act, including anti-competitive and anti-consumer conduct. The definition of “dominant platforms” will be based on factors such as revenue, user base, ownership and control, etc.

Article continues below ⬇ , you might also want to read:

3. Measures to increase transparency: Dominant platforms must:

4. Measures to address competition concerns:

5. Measures to ensure the privacy of users:

6. Measures to ensure national security:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event