SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Help me decide if I should join this company
DATE: 2017-06-07
SCORE: 33
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6ftuw0/help_me_decide_if_i_should_join_this_company/

--- POST TEXT ---

**EDIT : Thank you guys, I have decided not to join them. My desperation of getting a job and the frustration is taking toll on my brain. I'll be more careful.**

A few days back, I attended a job fair held at a State university and I met the representatives of the company. After seeing my resume and asking what was my experience in Python, they told me I would be called on the phone.

This evening I received a call from the recruiter, he asked me details regarding my institute and my final year project. Then followed a small questionnaire on Python which I think he was asking from the Internet. I was not able to answer a question on unittest.

Finally after remarking on my Python's *aptitude* and making me understand I will have work on "Core Python", he said I would like me to join after two months of training - first month unpaid and the next month a stipend would be paid. My salary range would fall in 9 - 10K, since well I am inexperienced (In fact I told him I expect a salary in range of 10-12K p.m, but my desperation of getting a job. Now I think valued my services less) Also, he has already mentioned he does not have a senior Python developer and they would guide me in the training. Also, I would have a bond period of 1.5 years and I need to submit my original degree certificate and a 50,000 rupee Banker's cheque IIRC. Plus they are only seven people at the office they would like me to join and more 3 would join in the coming two weeks.

Now comes the important part, I revisited the company's website and I notice the testimonials seem to be fake - this came to my notice when a testimonial looked like the Lorem Ipsum text, and the client pics are like those stock photos on Shutterstock, infact the whole site is full of stock images. Now I doubt if the 500+ projects and 200+ clients are really legit. Plus I found only six employees on LinkedIN including the CEO and some few others. This could be like they take up freelancing ventures.

Now, I am still living with my parents and our finances are all right - but I really need to work because I did not take up a job in campus placements and did a misadventure with GATE, plus I neglected building my skills which could have been done - I knew about FreeCodeCamp and I regret not working on it. Now that I realise the loss of one year, I've decided I must take up a job and learn to work and help my parents. 

Also, the recruitment exams of BEL and I-CERT are far. If I go on to submit my degree certificate to them and sign the bond I can't go to these exams too as they would require my degree certificate.

Please help guys. Thank you. And no doorknobs jokes please.

Edits in italics