SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I am frustrated
DATE: 2024-06-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1dqgb40/i_am_frustrated/

--- POST TEXT ---

PS- A very long rant about eveything from my frustration with my parents marriage and being a woman in India.

**Also some people might find somethings offensive so just try to read this with an open mind.**

I (20F) am just done with the cold war which has been going on since I can remember. My father (51M) emotionally abuses my mother (45F). It has never turned physical, but the verbal and emotional abuse is relentless. I usually live in my college hostel, but every time I come home, I can't stand the constant taunts and verbal abuse my father directs at my mother.

The thing is, both my mom and dad are nice people at heart. But I know that my dad's family talks badly about my mom behind her back (spreading lies that couldn't be farther from the truth). He, being such a family-oriented guy, believes his family can do no wrong and trusts them implicitly. He has also given them a lot of money. I know that I shouldn't feel bad because, at the end of the day, it's his money. But the things his family has done with my mother makes me hate them. They don't allow my mother to work, even though she has a PhD in economics and wanted to be a professor. They threw out my moms stuff when we moved out. They dont care about my dad either, all they care about is his money. But things get sad because my mother saves money whenever she can. She even opts to ride an Ola bike in the scorching heat to save 40-50 rupees. My dad too doesn't spend enough on himself. This breaks my heart.

My dad's family tries to scam him, more like emotionally convince him to give them more money. They say they don't know how credit cards work (they don't have one, which I'm sure they purposely avoid getting so they can ask my dad to pay whenever cash isn't an option) or ask for money for minor medical expenses. He pays for the smallest medical bills and takes relatives to the hospital for trivial issues because they act helpless.

Why do Indian dad's never understand that their relatives are toxic???? I am half of my dads age and I understand, heck my sister who is 14 understands. Are they this naive on purpose or do they choose to ignore it or is it just my dad who is like this?

My mother tries to tell my father about this, but he gets so aggressive anytime someone says something against his family. My mom, dad, and sister moved to my dad's home state-Rajasthan in August 2023 and since then the abuse has increased a lot because now they visit us often. He is incredibly hypocritical towards my mother. If his relatives do something wrong, he says nothing, but if my mom does something similar, he becomes aggressive. He angrily slams doors, gives her the silent treatment, responds rudely, and refuses to eat. I don't understand why. All she is trying to do is make him understand. I think my father has some kind of unresolved childhood issue or guilt about not living with his family. His tone automatically changes when he talks to them. He praises them for the smallest things and gets them many gifts, even though they don't care about him or us. He is calm and patient with them, but with my mom, he gets annoyed instantly.

The whole abuse situation stems from my dad's side despising my mom. I don't know why, but it could be because we don't live with them (they all live in one big joint family) or because my mother is more educated than all of them combined. They have a very chauvinistic attitude, believing a woman should not work, should not speak against her in-laws, and should be present at all social events (mainly to serve guests). Until a few years ago, my mom had to cover her head (ghunghat) whenever we visited them. They think things should remain the same as their grandparents' time and can't accept that things change.

For context, my father is the only educated sibling from his side of the family. My family (my parents, my sister, and I) have moved a lot, both in India and abroad(I have lived 9 years in England and 2 years in Dubai, rest mostly in bangalore)and I think my dad's side is jealous because of this. His family thinks my father earns a lot more than he actually does. Do they not realize that my father works to earn this much money, its not like we have an unlimited supply. Do they not recognize the fact that my dad studied and actually went to college and struggled throughout his 20s to reach where he is now. None of my dads siblings have a proper college degree. My parents earn just enough to give my sister and me a good life.

I sometimes wonder how different my mother's life would have been if she never married. She would be living her best life, accepting no abuse. Women are literally treated like doormats after marriage, and I don't understand why marriage is so glorified. This is a very patriarchal view that only benefits men. They get a dowry and a maid. Women are expected to complete all household tasks, even if they work and earn the same as their husbands. It is ingrained in society. They rarely question it, and you can't blame them either, as it is what they have seen everywhere—with their mothers, grandmothers, in TV serials, popular shows, movies, everywhere. Women are expected to look after their children while men just complain about how messy the home is or how the kids arent performing well or how the food tastes bad.

There have been occurrences where, on planes or trains, the mom sits with her two kids while the husband sits elsewhere and the whole journey, she is the only one tending to the kids while he scrolls his phone or sleeps. 

Why do men assume the wife is a slave who works for them?

Why should a woman leave her home to take care of someone else's parents when the man doesn't even visit his in-laws?

There was one time my Nani said, "ab 4-5 saal baad toh apne ghar jaegi tu" (in 4-5 years, you'll go to your home) like what? This isn't my home? And another time someone said, girls should learn how to do household tasks because "ghar ko toilet kon clean karega" (who will clean the home toilet)? Huh? Is that what girls are for?

I will never marry, especially to an Indian man. Marriage is a societal tragedy for a woman. The fact that my mother completely supports me in this shows how much she has gone through. I want to end my mother's misery by letting her live through me and being the best version of myself.

Being born a girl is literally a curse in India. You get catcalled for just existing. I am 20 years old and still can't enter an elevator with a man without thinking, "this guy will touch me." I once watched a video on YouTube called "Indian Men Explain Why Men Rape," and my blood boiled. Men said women "ask for it" by wearing jeans. EXCUSE ME, WHAT? This is the attitude of 80% of the male population of India. They have never been taught about the female body or respecting women. I can't tell you how many boys have been told by their mothers, "you are a boy, you can do anything," implying much more than academic or physical abilities.

I am just frustrated, and I am glad I have grown apart from such people. My parents have have always taught me that I am equal if not more capable than a man. All I want to do is leave India, and I know I am not alone in this goal of mine. This country has not respected girls, and I am in no way loyal to it.

**I went on many tangents with this rant. Thank you if you read this till the end. Also, I would really appreciate some advice on my situation with my mother.**

I am entering my 4th year of college, studying CS at a good NIT. I plan to move back to Bangalore after graduation, work for 1-2 years, and then either go abroad for a masters or try for civil services(preferable Indian foreign Service though UPSC) which I plan to give 3-4 years. My ultimate goal is to settle abroad far from my toxic relatives.I really want to live with my mother and take her everywhere with me. I am the older sibling, and my sister is in 10th grade right now. I want to give my mother all the happiness she deserves. I know that growing up, her family was supportive but always saw marriage as her fate. I want her to live with me wherever I work after college. I want her to experience a household where abuse is not considered the norm. I want her to go on vacations where she isn't the one carrying the heaviest bags. I want the same for my dad, but he already has a choice: he can either continue moping or live a happy life. I want them to live separately.

Also what could be the consequences, when I raise the question of living separately. By the way- My dad has been very loving towards me and my sister. I have never interfered with their marriage, I just listen and try to block everything out of my head because I dont know what would happen if I say something. Honeslty I dont have enough guts to say anything especially when I am not financially independent yet and they still pay for me.