1. Accused is facing trial in the present case on

 allegations of kidnapping, confining prosecutrix "C' aged around

 20 years and committing her rape. 2. Initially FIR in question was registered u/s 365 IPC

 on the basis of complaint of father of prosecutrix alleging that his

 daughter (prosecutrix "C') was abducted by accused on

 20.09.2015 on false pretext of giving her a job. 3. Police searched prosecutrix through electronic and

 print media but of avail. As per charge-sheet, on 14.09.2016,

 accused left prosecutrix at ISBT, Kashmere Gate and went away.

 Father of prosecutrix went and brought prosecutrix to police

 station. Prosecutrix was got medically examined and was found

 30-32 weeks pregnant. Statement of prosecutrix was recorded by

 IO and was also got recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Prosecutrix alleged

 that accused kidnapped, confined and sexually assaulted her. 4. Accused was arrested and charge-sheeted. Charge

 for offence punishable under Section 344 / 366 / 376 / 506 IPC was

 framed against him. Accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. Prosecution examined 9 witnesses. PW Name of witness Nature of Documents proved
 witness
 1 C Prosecutrix Supported prosecution
 version and proved her
 statement recorded u/s. 164 Cr. P.C as Ex PW1/A and
 arrest of accused vide memo
 as Ex PW1/B.. 2 Father of prosecutrix Complainant Lodged missing complaint of
 prosecutrix as Ex PW2/A.
 3 A Brother of Supported prosecution case as
 prosecutrix to missing of her sister and
 her recovery. 6. Accused admitted FIR in question, a certificate

 u/s.65B of Evidence Act, MLC of prosecutrix, his MLC and

 statement of prosecutrix recorded u/s.164 Cr.P.C as such witnesses

 who were cited to prove those documents were dropped. 7. Accused in statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C, stated that

 prosecutrix was in love with him. In May, 2015 prosecutrix met

 him while she was working in Cyber Cafe at Laxmi Nagar. She

 insisted accused to take her along. They married each other at

 Manikaran and then resided for an year together at different

Judgment 4 of 26
 SC No: 227/17 State Vs. Manish Kumar Sharma places. One day, prosecutrix told him to leave her at her house, at

 that time she was pregnant. When accused went to take

 prosecutrix from her parental house, he was got arrested by her

 parents and he was implicated to wriggle out from wedlock. 8. It is contended on behalf of accused that prosecutrix

 voluntarily left her home. She did not make any attempt to return

 home and there is no evidence to indicate that accused either

 enticed, kidnapped, confined or established forcible relations with

 her. Thus, accused has not committed any offence and he is

 entitled to be acquitted. 9. Per-contra, Ld. Addl. PP submits that prosecutrix in

 all her statements stated that accused not only enticed & confined

 her but she was raped by him also. It is submitted that testimony

 of prosecutrix which is reliable and trustworthy establishes guilt of

 accused and in these facts accused is liable to be convicted. 10. I have heard arguments and perused material on record. 11. Versions of prosecutrix: Prior to deposition of

 prosecutrix her statement Ex PW5/A was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C .

 It's loose English translation reads as under: 13. From testimony of prosecutrix it is evident that

 prosecutrix admits that she stayed with accused for about a year

 and during her entire stay she made no effort to return to her

 house. Prosecutrix was cross-examined at length by Ld. Defence

Judgment 10 of 26
 SC No: 227/17 State Vs. Manish Kumar Sharma

 Counsel and during her cross-examination prosecutrix deposed as

 under:- She accompanied accused to appear for an interview. On

 20.09.2015 she along with her brother reached at ISBT from there

 she accompanied accused to Chandigarh and then to Manikaran. 15. Prosecutrix admits that from Manikaran she went to

 Katra then from there came back to Manikaran. In a temple at

 Manikaran some rituals were performed after which accused told

 him that he has married her. Though prosecutrix deposed that

 accused took her with him for an job interview but she has given

 no explanation that why she immediately not choose to return to

 her home when she came to know that accused neither got her

 appeared in any interview nor any job is available for her at

 Manikaran or Katra. It is evident that despite coming to know that

 accused did not bring her for any interview, prosecutrix went with

 accused to a Temple and performed rituals to get married to him. 16. Prosecutrix stayed in company of accused for an

 year at Katra, Manikaran, Hamirpur, Jawala Ji, Chamunda,

 Kangra, Naina Devi, Mansa Devi and Amritsar. Prosecutrix

 deposed that each time they traveled in a public transport and

 stayed near Temples but prosecutrix throughout entire period of

 one year did not make complaint to any person either while

 traveling with accused or at places she stayed with him. 17. Prosecutrix testified that she visited 20 different

 temples with accused. They ate food in Golden Temple for about

 50-60 times. She also visited Manikaran and Amritsar markets

 with accused. Prosecutrix was able bodied grown up female and

 in crowded places such as Golden Temple or Katra she could have

 easily raised an alarm or could have sought help for any public

 person if at all she was under threat or fear of accused rather

 prosecutrix admits that during her entire stay with accused and

 despite in public vision she did not raise any alarm nor tried to run

Judgment 15 of 26
 SC No: 227/17 State Vs. Manish Kumar Sharma away from the company of accused. Conduct of prosecutrix

 demonstrates that she was residing with accused voluntarily and

 with her consent. 18. In this regard testimony of PW4 Raj Kumar(a

 Shopkeeper of Manikaran) and PW5 Jagdish Chand, Manager of

 Dharmshala at Manikaran, H.P are worth to appreciate. PW4 Raj

 Kumar deposed that accused was staying in a Hotel at Manikaran

 with a girl near his shop. He deposed that accused met him about

 5-8 times and each time a girl was accompanying accused.

 Accused informed him that girl accompanying him was his wife.

 PW4 categorically deposed that the girl did not make any

 complaint to him rather she seemed comfortable in company of

 accused. From appearance she seemed to be wife of accused as

 she was wearing "Chura" and "Vermillon" on parting of her head. 19. Similarly, PW5 Jagdish Chand, Manager of

 Dharmshala deposed that on 02.11.2015 he gave a room to

Judgment 16 of 26
 SC No: 227/17 State Vs. Manish Kumar Sharma accused who stayed in the room for a night with a girl. PW5

 deposed that accused informed that the girl accompanying accused

 was his wife. She did not make any complaint to him rather she

 seemed to be quite comfortable in the company of accused. From

 appearance also she seemed to be wedded wife of accused as she

 was wearing "Chura". 20. PW8 ASI Jaswant Singh with police team went to

 Manikaran in search of prosecutrix. During his cross-examination,

 he testified that nobody in Manikaran informed him that accused

 had forcibly kept prosecutrix with him. It came to his knowledge

 from local investigations that prosecutrix was residing with

 accused as his wife and prosecutrix was wearing 'Choora' which

 was generally worn by newly wed girl. 21. Testimony of PW4 & 5 who are independent

 witnesses and not known to either party indicates that prosecutrix

 was residing comfortably with accused and was accompanying

Judgment 17 of 26
 SC No: 227/17 State Vs. Manish Kumar Sharma him like a newly wedded wife. Testimony of PW8 ASI Jaswant

 Singh further strengthens that prosecutrix was residing with

 accused as his wife. If at all prosecutrix was under any kind of

 fear, force or coercion she had every opportunity to raise alarm or

 approach any public person but her conduct shows that she was

 comfortably staying and roaming around with accused. 22. Testimony of father & brother of prosecutrix: In her

 testimony prosecutrix claimed that she went to ISBT along with

 her brother and she boarded the bus from there. However, PW3

 (brother of prosecutrix) deposed that after taking him and

 prosecutrix to bank accused took prosecutrix with him to Noida on

 the pretext of meeting with his senior. Then from there, accused

 took prosecutrix alongwith him and he came back to my house.

 Thereafter prosecutrix did not come back and his father (PW2)

 then lodged a missing complaint. 23. Though in his testimony brother of prosecutrix

 (PW3) claims that on the same day when accused took prosecutrix

 with him he informed his father (complainant) and his father

 lodged a police complaint. However, if we go through DD No. 39

 B dated 06.10.2015 as Ex PW2/D-1 it can be seen that father of

 prosecutrix on 06.10.2015 reported to police that on 20.09.2015

 prosecutrix left home without informing them and despite search

 she was untraceable. It is surprising that if at all brother of

 prosecutrix was aware that accused took prosecutrix with him on

 pretext of a job interview and that prosecutrix did not return then

 why complainant did not inform police about the said incident on

 20.09.2015 itself or till 06.10.2015. 24. Complainant lodged a complaint Ex PW2/A in which

 he mentions that after prosecutrix left her home, she talked to her

 family and informed that she has cleared interview and is getting

 training and after getting salary she will return. Prosecutrix

Judgment 19 of 26
 SC No: 227/17 State Vs. Manish Kumar Sharma herself telling her family that she appeared in an interview and is

 getting training despite the fact that she did not appear in any

 interview further indicates her willingness and consent in staying

 with accused. 25. From testimony of prosecutrix and other

 prosecution witnesses, it is evident that at no point of time

 prosecutrix made an effort to leave the company of accused.

 Neither she ever complained about acts of the accused to any of

 persons. This shows that prosecutrix was residing with the accused

 willingly and consensually. 26. There is no reason why prosecutrix could not have

 make a complaint to the family, police, friends, relatives others

 with whom she came in contact with. The fact that she choose to

 remain silent only shows that she herself was in the company of

 the accused with her consent. 27. As far as allegation of forcible sexual assault upon

 prosecutrix is concerned it is matter of record that during her

 entire stay with the accused prosecutrix never made any

 complained to any person nor she approached the police with any

 such complaint despite having an opportunity to do so. It is matter

 of record that prosecutrix stayed with the accused for about an

 year and at no point prosecutrix made an effort to leave the

 company of the accused. 28. From above stated discussion it emerges that : 29. Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has been pleased to

 render an authoritative pronouncement on 14.08.2015 in Criminal

 Appeal No. 325/2013 titled as Vijay Kumar Vs. State of NCT of Delhi wherein a girl aged about 15 years of age had gone along with the

 accused to Bhatinda Punjab and remained there for 89 days where

 physical relations between them were established on several

 occasions. In the said case the Ld. Trial Judge had convicted the

 boy for offence punishable U/S 363/366/376 IPC , however in the

Judgment 22 of 26
 SC No: 227/17 State Vs. Manish Kumar Sharma appeal filed in the matter the Hon'ble High Court duly considered

 the conduct of the girl and came to the conclusion that the girl was

 of the age of discretion, she had gone along with the accused

 without any kind of protest, she had not raised alarm at any point

 of time at any place despite there being an opportunity for the

 same. As far as the medical evidence in the said case is concerned

 the Hon'ble High Court duly considered the medical evidence of

 prosecutrix showing her hymen to be found torn and the

 allegations that the boy had established physical relations with her

 in Bhatinda and found the same to be consensual. 30. Hon'ble High Court placed reliance upon the law laid down in Shyam and Anr Vs. State of Maharashtra AIR 1995 SC

 2169 to hold that the girl was of the age of discretion. The

 paragraphs of the aforesaid judgment relevant for the facts of the

 present case are reproduced as under: