SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How many people changed their opinion on BJP midway?
DATE: 2018-10-27
SCORE: 313
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/9rs0tk/how_many_people_changed_their_opinion_on_bjp/

--- POST TEXT ---

My political history:

2011: politically naive, had no interest

2012-13: disturbed by corruption charges and supported anti incumbency

2013-14: followed politics and the spectrum and coalgate scams, vehement critic of iNC. 

2015: did like the Swacch Bharat and ujjwala schemes. Pahal too. Had an eye on AAP, about whom I had mixed views

Started becoming suspicious with dadri lynchings. I was naive to believe the jumla of SZ Irani on JNU. However the days of blind belief were gone

2016: was in bank, seen the menaces of Demonetisation. Also, the lynchings started reaching record levels. Their anti intellectualism, shambolic cronyism and supporting bigoted fringe elements meant no longer I supported their views. I never harbored those views actually

2017: the more the jumla, the more I started hating BJP. The more jumla, the more they started grappling on to fringe elements to survive. Calling for Privatization of banks, nirav modi case, i could see what the government actually stood for. Blame nehru as much u want, but without his vision India doesn't have SAIL, IIT, IIM, AIIMS, ISRO etc. I also hated their attempts to privatise education. Privatization of education would mean market fee fixation (and the amount of capital reqd would keep it an oligopoly), which would mean the poor and the middle class would not have the money to join the premier institutes. One might argue education loans, but I believe that's a worse bet to confining the intellectual growth of a student. He is forced to take up such stuff or work that allow him monetary gains, also remains the problem of availing loans
Was a vehement critic of nmc, when it included the bridge course. In the name of disciplining everyone, they started placing sanghi stooges and I also came to know about the fake video JNU issue and the Henant karkare murder case

2018: kathua case was a fullstop. I had never seen my dharma going so violent, and people flaying bhagwa flags to support the perpetrators. After that PoCA, CBI, Rafale happened, and now I see they are a much bigger poison that happened to this country. It wasn't BJP or their market mania, but the biggest problem was and is the Sangh, that has hardly anything to do with development, and has everything to do with spreading hate, bigotry and evil.