Short counter affidavit filed by the learned A.G.A. is taken on record. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A and gone through the record. This bail application has been moved on behalf of accused-applicant Alok Agarwal, who is involved in case crime no.372 of 2018 under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 I.P.C., Police Station Chauri Chaura, District Gorakhpur. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that applicant is innocent and has falsely been implicated in the case; that as per prosecution allegations, the applicant and other persons were involved in the scam of Kisan Credit Card in which one co-accused T.N. Pandey has played a vital role in committing a forgery in the map book (khatauni) and in the field book ( khasra); that the Field Officer was merely required to assess the khatauni and deliver the same to the Advocate for final certification after verification of the said document given by the customer for the K.C.C. that Advocate namely, Chandrashekhar Mani has given a non-encumbrance certificate; that the Branch Manager was the sanctioning authority of the loan; that the applicant being the Field Officer was merely performing the official duties and was not a beneficiary in the scam; that nothing has been recovered from the possession of the applicant which may connect him with the present case; that co-accused Triyambak Nath Pandey alias T.N. Pandey has been granted bail by a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 23.10.2019 in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 43360 of 2019, hence he may also be enlarged on bail. Several other submissions in order to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against the applicant have also been placed forth before the Court. The circumstances which, according to the counsel, led to the false implication of the accused have also been touched upon at length. It has also been pointed out that the accused is not having any criminal history and he is in jail since 21.11.2019 and that in the wake of heavy pendency of cases in the Court, there is no likelihood of any early conclusion of trial. Learned A.G.A has opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the factum of granting bail to co-accused. Without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, and also any observation, if it has come touching the merits of the case, that will not come in the way of learned Trial Court/Court concerned while taking final decision in the matter as that is strictly confined to the disposal of this bail application, I am of the view that it is a fit case for bail. Let the above named applicant involved in the aforesaid crime be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions:- Order Date :- 27.2.2020
 
CPP/-