At our panel discussion on AI in Fintech in Bangalore on the 24th of April, we intend to focus on understanding how AI is deployed in the financial services industry, in terms of where it is used, how it is used, and what kind of decisions are made using AI.

Once we gain clarity on how algorithms function, including the risks of scalable harm through personalization, we will turn our focus on understanding what kind of checks and balances exist for algorithmic decision making, and what kind of approaches can be taken towards explainability (and whether this is practical and applicable), safeguards for accuracy, and addressing bias in credit algorithms.

Our detailed agenda:

Register Now

Date: April 24, 2025 Venue: Spring Hall, Hotel Royal Orchid, Domlur, Bangalore Schedule:

This session will explore how AI is actively being deployed across the fintech ecosystem — in lending, insurance, fraud detection, robo-advisory, and trading. As financial services become more data-driven, the use of consumer, transactional, behavioral, and alternative data in decision-making is rapidly growing.

The discussion will focus on the capabilities of AI in automating credit scoring, pricing risk, and improving operational efficiency — while also critically examining the risks to fairness, accountability, inclusion, and rights (FAIR).

Key Themes:

Shifting from diagnosis to solutions, this session will explore what effective, implementable regulatory approaches to AI could look like in the Indian context. With RBI and SEBI beginning to formulate frameworks, we’ll examine what kinds of safeguards, audit requirements, and explainability standards are viable.

Can we create systems that are not only compliant, but also accountable to the people they affect? Panelists will debate institutional readiness, regulatory clarity, the limits of explainability, and the need for a tiered or risk-based governance approach.

Key Themes:

This discussion is organised with support from CRED, PhonePe, RazorPay and in partnership with HasGeek, Sahamati Labs, Aapti Institute and IT For Change.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event