CORAM: Hon'ble Mr. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice Deepak Roshan -------- For the Petitioner : Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, Adv.(in both cases)
 : Mrs. Shilpi Sandil, Adv. : Mr. Ranjeet Kushwaha, Adv. Deepak Roshan, J: Heard learned counsel for the parties. 2. Since both these writ applications are interconnected and common
 issue is involved, as such both are being heard together and disposed of by
 this common judgment. 3. Writ Petition No. 3908 of 2020 pertains to the Financial Year
 2017-18 wherein the petitioner prayed for quashing and setting aside
 "summary of the order" as contained in Form-GST DRC 07 dated
 11.09.2020 issued by respondent no.4 whereby the petitioner was directed
 to make payment of tax, interest and penalty. Similarly Writ Petition No.
 3909 of 2020 pertains to Financial Year 2018-19 wherein petitioner has
 made similar relief for quashing "summary of the order" as contained in
 Form-GST DRC 07 dated 11.09.2020. 4. The brief facts of the case are that the petitioner is a Public
 Limited Company and is primarily engaged in the business of trading of 2 coal. Petitioner for the purpose of trading of coal, purchases coal primarily
from various subsidiaries of Coal India Limited including various
Government entities like Jharkhand State Mineral Development
Corporation, Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited as well as other
similarly situated coal traders. It further transpires that the petitioner is
having its business in various states of the country including the State of
Jharkhand and State of West Bengal and the petitioner sells its purchased
coal to its customers which are primarily Government undertakings like
MSTC Limited, West Bengal Mineral Development and Trading
Corporation Limited etc. It further transpires that the petitioner is
regularly issued work orders by MSTC Limited, West Bengal Mineral
Development and Trading Corporation Limited and others like entities
towards supply of coal and in order to meet the said supplies, the
petitioner procures coal from various sources mentioned hereinabove. 5. From the pleadings of the writ application, it further transpires
that petitioner also purchased coal from other traders like R.S. Fuels
Private Limited; Sandoz Impex Limited, Shri Ram Coal Traders and
Sendoz Commercials who are also engaged in the business of trading of
coal. As per the business module of the petitioner, in a particular period of
time, the petitioner may have shortage of coal in order to fulfill its trade
commitments requiring the petitioner to purchase coal from other traders
mentioned above and, similarly, it may happen that the said traders like
R.S. Fuel Private Limited at a particular point of time, may also have
shortage of coal and, thus, would be required to purchase coal from other
traders including the petitioner thus, there were inter-se purchase and sale
transaction by and between the petitioner and other coal traders mentioned
hereinabove. 6. The respondents carried out an inspection under Section 67 of the
Jharkhand Goods Service Tax Act, 2017 in the registered premises of the
petitioner. Vide inspection report dated 28.01.2019, the petitioner was
directed to produce documents pertaining to movement of goods relating
to purchase and sale transactions of the petitioner in exercise of powers
under Section 71(2) of the CGST Act. In the said inspection report itself,
it was mentioned that if the petitioner fails to produce the relevant
documents as directed, proceedings for adjudication under Section 73 / 74 ,
as the case may be, would be initiated against the petitioner. 7. From the record it further transpires that various communications
were exchanged between the petitioner and the Respondents-State Tax
Authorities and the petitioner produced several documents to demonstrate
its claim towards genuineness of the transactions of purchase and sale of
coal made by the petitioner. However, the Respondent-authorities were
not convinced with the documents furnished by the petitioner and,
accordingly, in terms of the provisions of Section 73(5)/74(5) of the GST
Act read with Rule 142(1A) issued an intimation to the petitioner in Form
GST DRC-01A dated 29.01.2020 directing the petitioner to make
payment of the amount of tax as stated in the notice along with applicable
interest and penalty. In the said intimation itself, it was stated that if the
petitioner fails to pay the amount demanded, 'show cause notice' will be
issued to the petitioner under Section 74(1) of the GST Act. 8. Subsequently, respondent No. 4 issued a 'summary of show
cause notice' to the petitioner in Form GST DRC-01 in terms of Rule
142(1) of the GST Rules on 14th March, 2020. The specific case of the
petitioner is that no show cause notice was ever issued to the petitioner
and even in the summary of the show cause notice, no time line was
provided as to when the petitioner was to submit its reply. Subsequently,
the petitioner was issued 'summary of order' in Form GST DRC-07
wherein the date of the adjudication order was mentioned as 11.09.2020.
Although, GST DRC-07 was issued to the petitioner, the copy of the
adjudication order was not communicated to the petitioner. 9. The petitioner in the writ application has also annexed the
certified copy of the entire order-sheet pertaining to the adjudication
proceeding, and, from the order-sheet, it transpires that on 14th March,
2020, there is a recording that the petitioner was issued 'summary of show
cause notice' in Form GST DRC-01. Thereafter, straightaway in the
order-sheet the next date mentioned is 14th August, 2020 and the said
order-sheet records, inter alia, that despite service of Form GST DRC-01,
the petitioner has not taken any steps for payment of the due amount and,
further, that due to COVID-19 more than one opportunity has been given
to the petitioner. Accordingly, it was recorded that Form DRC-07 should
be issued against the petitioner. It is against the aforesaid adjudication
orders that the petitioner has filed the present writ petitions. 10. This Court vide its order dated 07.01.2021 tagged the writ
petitions being W.P.(T) No. 3908 of 2020 with W.P.(T) No. 3909 of 2020
to be heard together. Although the impugned orders were passed by the
State Tax Authorities, this Court in order to effectively adjudicate the
dispute in question vide order dated 21.01.2021 even directed the Central
Tax Authority through Principal Commissioner of Central GST and
Central Excise, Ranchi to be impleaded as respondents and, further,
direction were issued to the respective respondents for filing their counter -affidavit. 11. Thereafter, Respondents-State Tax Authorities filed their counter
affidavit and in their counter affidavit an adjudication order dated 13th
August, 2020 was annexed being a common adjudication order for both
assessment years i.e. 2017-18 and 2018-19. 12. The said adjudication order was dated 13th August, 2020, though
in Form GST DRC-07 the date of the adjudication order was mentioned as
11.09.2020. Petitioner thereafter filed amendment applications seeking
amendment in prayer portion challenging the adjudication order dated 13th
August, 2020 as the said adjudication order was for the first time
communicated to the petitioner. The said amendment applications filed by
the petitioner in both the writ petitions were allowed by this Hon'ble
Court vide order dated 28.01.2021. Further, in view of apparent
discrepancy in the date of adjudication order mentioned in Form GST
DRC-07 and the actual adjudication order brought on record by
Respondents-State Tax Authorities in their counter affidavit, this Court
vide its order dated 28.01.2021 directed the respondents to file
supplementary counter-affidavit annexing the entire records of the file.
The entire order-sheet of the proceedings was subsequently filed by
Respondent-State through supplementary counter- affidavit. The said
order-sheets filed by respondents revealed that the adjudication order
which was passed on 13th August, 2020 does not find any mention in the
order-sheet. 13. On 14.03.2022, this Court specifically asked the counsel for the
State as to whether there is any mention in the order-sheet drawn by the
adjudicating officer regarding reference of the adjudication order dated
13th August, 2020, but it was fairly submitted that there is no reference in
the order-sheet drawn of the adjudication order dated 13th August, 2020. It 5 was further admitted that no 'show cause notice' was issued and only
'summary of show cause' was issued. 14. Mr. Sumeet Kumar Gadodia, learned counsel for the petitioner
assisted by Mr. Ranjeet Kushwaha, assailed the adjudication orders on the
following grounds:- 15. Per contra, Mr. Ashok Kumar Yadav, learned GA-I appearing for
the State of Jharkhand supported the adjudication proceedings and stated
that an investigation was initiated against the petitioner and despite the
fact that the petitioner was directed to produce the documents towards
movement of goods, it failed to produce the said documents. Resultantly,
the State Tax Authorities were compelled to issue intimation to the
petitioner under Section 73(5)/74(5) of the JGST Act, 2017 read with Rule
142(1)(A) of the JGST Rules on 29.01.2020, directing the petitioner to
discharge the liability of tax, interest and penalty but the petitioner failed
to discharge the said liability. Accordingly, the Respondent-authorities
issued the summary of show cause notice in Form GST DRC-01 in terms
of Rule 142(1) on 14.03.2020 and even after issuance of the said summary
of show cause notice, no reply was filed by the petitioner and the
authorities were left with no option but to pass an adjudication order dated
13th August, 2020. However, as already stated above, the Respondent-
State Counsel has fairly admitted that although the adjudication order is
dated 13th August, 2020 but there is no recording in the order-sheet
regarding passing of the said adjudication order on 13th August, 2020 and
the first order-sheet recorded after issuance of show cause notice is on 14th
August, 2020. The respondents have, however, tried to justify the said fact 6 by stating, inter alia, that after passing of the adjudication order dated 13th
August, 2020, the order-sheet in the file was drawn on 14th August, 2020
and, hence, it cannot be said that the adjudication order is an antedated
order. On pointed question being put by the Court as to why in the
summary of the order in Form GST DRC-07 the date of adjudication order
was mentioned as 11.09.2020 instead of 13.08.2020, no satisfactory reply
was given and it was merely stated that it was by mistake. Further, as
already mentioned above, the Respondent-State counsel fairly stated that
no show cause notice in terms of Section 74(1) of the Act read with Rule
142(1) of the Rules were issued and, merely, a summary of the show
cause notice was issued. Even on the issue of grant of personal hearing, it
was fairly admitted that no separate notice was issued fixing the date of
personal hearing. However, again by placing reliance upon the
investigation proceedings as initiated under Section 67 read with Section
71(2) of the Act, it was stated that the same would amount to sufficient
compliance of the provisions of natural justice. 16. Having heard the learned counsels for the parties and after going
through the documents annexed with the respective affidavits and the
averments made therein including narration of facts stated hereinabove, it
appears that petitioner, who is engaged in the business of trading of Coal,
was subjected to an inspection proceedings under Section 67 of the JGST
Act on 29.01.2019 (Annexure-10) with primary allegation of having
availed ITC on goods without its actual movement. During the inspection
itself, petitioner was directed under Section 71(2) of the JGST Act to
produce documents evidencing the movement of goods in respect of
which ITC was claimed. It further transpires that petitioner has produced
documents, and, on not being convinced with the documents produced by
the petitioner, Form GST DRC 01A was issued directing the petitioner to
discharge the amount of tax, interest and penalty, failing which it was
stated that show cause notice under Section 74(1) of the Act would be
issued. Thereafter, admittedly, no show cause notice in terms of Section
74(1) read with Rule 142(1) was issued to the petitioner and only a
'Summary of Show Cause Notice' in Form GST DRC 01 was issued on
14th March, 2020. Even in the said 'Summary of Show Cause Notice', no
date was notified either for filing of reply and/or for hearing. 17. Thus, the first issue to be adjudicated in the instant writ
application is as to whether the very initiation of the adjudication
proceeding without issuance of show cause notice is void ab initio and any
consequential adjudication order passed thereto is nonest in the eye of
law. The said issue has already been settled by a decision of Coordinate
Bench of this Court in the case of M/s NKAS Services Private Limited Vs.
State of Jharkhand and ors , reported in 2021-VIL-732-Jhr.[in which one
of us (Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh) was a Member]. In the aforesaid
matter of NKAS Services Pvt. Ltd. (supra), in respect of an identical
situation where only a 'Summary of Show Cause Notice' was issued and
Adjudication Order was passed pursuant thereto, this Court has observed
as under:- 27. It is no doubt true that at the stage of show cause, the
 person proceeded against must be told the charges against
 him so that he can take his defence and prove his innocence. It
 is obvious that at that stage the authority issuing the charge-
 sheet, cannot, instead of telling him the charges, confront him
 with definite conclusions of his alleged guilt. If that is done, as
 has been done in this instant case, the entire proceeding
 initiated by the show-cause notice gets vitiated by unfairness
 and bias and the subsequent proceedings become an idle
 ceremony." 15. The Apex Court has held that the concept of reasonable
opportunity includes various safeguards and one of them is to afford
opportunity to the person to deny his guilt and establish his
innocence, which he can only do if he is told what the charges leveled
against him are and the allegations on which such charges are based. 16. It is also true that acts of fraud or suppression are to be
specifically pleaded so that it is clear and explicit to the noticee to
reply thereto effectively [See Larsen & Toubro Ltd. Vs. CCE , (2007) 9
SCC 617 (para 14)]. Further in the case of CCE Vs. Brindavan
Beverages (P) Ltd. reported in (2007) 5 SCC 388 relied upon by the
petitioner, the Apex Court at para-14 of the judgment has held that if
the allegations in the show-cause notice are not specific and are on
the contrary, vague, lack details and/or unintelligible i.e. its sufficient
to hold that the noticee was not given proper opportunity to meet the
allegations indicated in the show-cause notice. We do not agree with
the contention of the respondent that the notice ought not to be struck 9 down if in substance it contains the matters which a notice must
 contain. In order to proceed under the provisions of Section 74 of the
 Act, the specific ingredients enumerated thereunder have to be clearly
 asserted in the notice so that the noticee has an opportunity to explain
 and defend himself. 17. As observed herein above, the impugned notice completely
 lack in fulfilling the ingredients of a proper show-cause notice under Section 74 of the Act. Proceedings under Section 74 of the Act have to
 be preceded by a proper show-cause notice. A summary of show-
 cause notice as issued in Form GST DRC-01 in terms of Rule 142(1)
 of the JGST Rules, 2017 (Annexure-2 impugned herein) cannot
 substitute the requirement of a proper show-cause notice. This court,
 however, is not inclined to be drawn into the issue whether the
 requirement of issuance of Form GST ASMT-10 is a condition
 precedent for invocation of Section 73 or 74 of the JGST Act for the
 purposes of deciding the instant case. This Court finds that upon
 perusal of Annexure-2 which is the statutory form GST DRC-01
 issued to the petitioner, although it has been mentioned that there is
 mismatch between GSTR-3B and 2A, but that is not sufficient as the
 foundational allegation for issuance of notice under Section 74 is
 totally missing and the notice continues to be vague. 18. Since we are of the considered view that the impugned show
 cause notice as contained in Annexure-1 does not fulfill the
 ingredients of a proper show-cause notice and thus amounts to
 violation of principles of natural justice, the challenge is
 entertainable in exercise of writ jurisdiction of this Court.
 Accordingly, the impugned notice at Annexure-1 and the summary of
 show-cause notice at Annexure-2 in Form GST DRC-01 are quashed.
 However, since this Court has not gone into the merits of the
 challenge, respondents are at liberty to initiate fresh proceedings
 from the same stage in accordance with law within a period of four
 weeks from today." 18. The present case is squarely covered by the aforesaid decision of
this Court and we fully agree with the law laid down in the case of NKAS
Services Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and, accordingly, it is held that the Adjudication
Order is non est in the eye of law, as the same has been passed without
issuance of proper show cause notice and, thus, amounts to violation of
principles of natural justice. 19. We would have refrained ourselves from further adjudicating
other issues raised by learned counsel for the petitioner and would have
straightaway quashed the impugned Adjudication Order, but we are of the
opinion that further issues raised by the petitioner is also required to be
dealt with in our Judgment, especially in view of the fact that this Court is
flooded with several similar writ petitions wherein the procedure
prescribed under the GST Act is not being followed by the GST
authorities, more particularly, the State Tax authorities, leaving no option 10 for this Court but to entertain the writ application straightaway against the
Adjudication Order without relegating the Writ Petitioners to avail
alternative remedy of appeal as provided under the GST Act. The manner
in which the impugned Adjudication Orders in this case have been passed
clearly point out serious lacuna in the proceedings conducted under the
GST Act, which clearly has entailed adverse consequences upon the
Petitioner. Accordingly, we deem it proper to further adjudicate the other
issues raised by the Petitioner, which are dealt with herein-under. 20. Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, has contended that not only that the
Adjudication Order has been passed without even issuance of a show
cause notice, but has further contended that Respondent-authority has
even proceeded to pass the Adjudication Order in gross violation of the
mandatory statutory provisions contained under Section 75(4) read with
Section 75(5) of the JGST Act and neither adequate opportunity of filing
reply to the Summary of Show Cause Notice was provided to the
Petitioner, nor any notice was issued granting opportunity of personal
hearing, and, thus, the Adjudication Order cannot be sustained in law. The
counsel for the Petitioner has placed reliance upon the following
Judgments passed by various High Court on the aforesaid issues namely:- 21. At this stage, we deem it appropriate to quote the provisions of Section 75(4) and 75(5) of the CGST/JGST Act:- 22. A conjoint reading of the provisions of Sections 75(4) and 75(5) would reveal as under:- 23. From the facts of the present proceedings, it would transpire that
on 14th March, 2020, Form GST DRC 01 was issued without specifying
any date of hearing and, thereafter, straightaway, an Adjudication Order
was allegedly passed on 13th August, 2020 fastening liability of tax,
interest and penalty upon the Petitioner. From the order sheet, it is evident
that no opportunity of personal hearing was granted to the petitioner and
the purported Adjudication Order was passed on 13.08.2020 i.e. on the
first date itself after issuance of the summary of show cause notice. This
itself clearly reveals that the entire adjudication proceedings have been
carried out in stark disregard to the mandatory provisions of the GST Act
and in violation of the principles of natural justice and, thus, the
Adjudication Orders, allegedly dated 13.08.2020, are liable to be quashed
and set aside on this ground also. 24. The learned counsel for the petitioner further argued that the
purported Adjudication Order dated 13th August, 2020, which has been
introduced in the Counter Affidavit for the first time is an antedated order
and the same has been passed with malice in law to somehow justify GST 12 DRC 07 issued earlier to the Petitioner. It has been submitted that the
Petitioner, in the writ petition, has categorically pleaded that it applied for
certified copy of the entire order-sheet, records of the proceedings and the
Adjudication Order passed by respondent no.4, but the petitioner was only
supplied with copy of the Order-sheet and the summary of the show cause
notice in form GST DRC 01 and Summary of Order in form GST DRC 07. However, no Adjudication Order was supplied to the petitioner. 25. It has been further submitted that in the Summary of Order dated
11.09.2020 (Annexure-23), Adjudication Order is referred to have been
passed on 11.09.2020, but interestingly, respondents in their Counter
Affidavit have introduced an Adjudication Order which is dated
13.08.2020. It further reveals that there is no recording in the Order-sheet
of any proceeding having been conducted on 13.08.2020 and/or
11.09.2020. Learned counsel for the State has fairly admitted that in the
order-sheet, there is no recording of drawing any proceeding either on
13.08.2020 and/or 11.09.2020, but has still tried to justify the date of
Adjudication Order as 13.08.2020 by stating, inter alia, on instruction, that
the Adjudication Order was actually passed on 13.08.2020, but,
inadvertently, the same could not be recorded in the Order-sheet on
14.08.2020. However, no explanation could be furnished by the
Respondents as to why in the Summary of Order the date of Adjudication
Order was mentioned as 11.09.2020 instead of 13.08.2020 and it was
merely stated that the same happened by mistake. 26. We have given our conscious consideration to the arguments
advanced by the counsels for the parties and we are of the opinion that
there is serious lacuna in the proceeding conducted under the JGST Act
which has ultimately entailed adverse consequences upon the petitioner.
Vide our order dated 10th March, 2022, we have directed respondent Nos.
3 and 4 to appear before us with complete records and has further
communicated our order to the Commissioner, State Tax Department also
so that the matter can be looked at from the level of the Commissionorate
as it reflects on the Tax Administration within the State. Relevant portion
of the order dated 10th March, 2022 is quoted herein-under:- 27. The original records produced before us leave no iota of doubt
 that the present adjudication proceedings have been carried out by the
 authorities of the State Tax Department in stark disregard to the
 mandatory provisions of GST Act and the well-known procedures for
 conduct of proceedings have been completely disregarded. We refrain
 ourselves from saying any further, but we direct the Commissioner of
 State Tax Department to issue appropriate guidelines/circular/notification
 elaborating therein the procedure which is to be adopted by the State Tax
 authorities regarding the manner of issuance of Show Cause Notice,
 adjudication and recovery proceedings, so that proper procedure is
 followed by the State Tax authorities in conduct of the adjudication
 proceedings, as huge revenue of the State is involved and it would be in
 ultimate interest of the Respondent-State of Jharkhand itself that the
 adjudication proceedings are conducted after following due procedure and
 process of law. 28. In view of the aforesaid discussions the summary of show cause
 notices, both dated 14.03.2020, Adjudication Order Dated 13.08.2020 and
 summary of orders, both dated 11.09.2020, issued against the petitioner in
 both the writ petitions, are hereby, quashed and set aside. However, the
 respondents would be at liberty to initiate fresh proceeding in accordance
 with law, if so advised. 29. As a result, both these writ applications are allowed and disposed
 of. (Aparesh Kumar Singh, J.)
 I agree
(Aparesh Kumar Singh, J.)
 (Deepak Roshan, J.)
Jharkhand High Court, Ranchi
Dated/ 18th / April, 2022
Amardeep/AFR