On May 16, the European Union unanimously passed the Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) regulation, which contains rules pertaining to market manipulation and the structure of crypto-issuing organizations . The proposal for MiCA first came out in 2020 and was approved by members of the European Parliament in April 2023 . This regulation does not apply to the European Central Bank and national central banks of the Member States (when acting as a monetary authority), the European Investment Bank, and insurance undertakings, to name a few.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with top stories from MediaNama and around the world, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Key points of the MiCA regulation:

Why it matters:

Before this regulation was passed, the EU had no rules for services related to crypto assets. This included the operation of trading platforms for crypto assets and the service of exchanging crypto-assets against fiat currency or other crypto assets, or the custody of crypto-assets. Having a set of rules in place would help holders of crypto assets seek consumer protection in case of fraudulent practices like pump-and-dump schemes. Just like the EU’s  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been an inspiration for data protection laws in other countries, MiCA could also act as a framework for other governments to set up their own crypto regulations.

You can read the full scope of these rules here .

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event