PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. 1. This hearing has been held through hybrid mode.
 Background facts 2. The present appeal under Section 21(4) of the National Investigation
 Agency Act, 2008 (hereinafter, ' NIA Act ') has been filed by the Appellant-
 Abdul Wahid Alias Saddam, assailing the order dated 28th February, 2024
 passed by the ld. Additional Sessions Judge-03, Patiala House Court, New
 Delhi (hereinafter, 'Trial Court') in 'National Investigation Agency v.
 Mohd.Shahjan & Ors.' arising out of RC No.05/2022/NIA/DLI dated 8th
 February, 2022 registered under Sections 120B , 489B & 489C IPC and Sections 16 & 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 1 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 (hereinafter, UAPA). Vide the impugned order, the ld. Trial Court has rejected
 the application seeking grant of bail filed by the Appellant. 3. In brief, the facts arising out of the present proceedings are that one
 Mohammad Shahjan (i.e., Accused No. 1 or 'A-1' before the Trial Court) was
 apprehended on 12th January, 2022 upon his arrival at Terminal-3, IGI
 Airport, New Delhi from Ras-al-Khaimah, UAE. He was searched by the
 Custom officials and Fake Indian Currency Notes (hereinafter, 'FICNs') of
 Rs.500/- denomination, totalling 2000 in number, were recovered from him,
 amounting to Rs.10 lakhs. Additionally, gold weighing 175 grams was also
 recovered from Mohammad Shahjan. 4. The allegation was that the said Mohammad Shahjan was to handover
 the FICNs to Amir-ul-Haq (i.e., Accused No. 2 or 'A-2' before the Trial
 Court) at Delhi Airport, who was also intercepted and arrested. On 15th
 January, 2022, the sum of Rs.10 lakhs, which was seized, was sent to the
 Currency Note Press, Nasik for examination, and in its report dated 31st
 January, 2022, the said report declared the recovered FICNs as high-quality
 counterfeit Indian currency. 5. The Ministry of Home Affairs, vide order no. 11011/10/2022/NIA
 dated 8th February, 2022, handed over the investigation with respect to the
 above allegations against A1 and A2 to the Respondent-NIA, which registered
 an FIR bearing No. RC-05/2022/NIA/DLI dated 8th February, 2022, against
 four individuals namely: 6. Sections 16 & 18 of the UAPA were then invoked on 23rd February,
 2022 and Mohammad Shahjan was arrested on 1st March, 2022. The
 allegation was that he was closely related to Amir-Ul-Haq, who was stated to
 be the kingpin and known as 'Sheikh Sahab'. According to the chargesheet
 dated 24th June, 2022, he was involved in making payments of visas and air
 tickets etc., between November, 2021 and January, 2022. 7. The case made out against the Appellant (i.e., Accused No. 3 or 'A-3'
 before the Trial Court) was that he was facilitating the two other accused i.e.,
 Mohammad Shahjan and Amir-Ul-Haq in smuggling FICNs and other
 counterfeit articles from Dubai to India. The Appellant was arrested for his
 role on 4th March, 2022. According to the chargesheet, prior to the
 consignment which was seized, at least 10 to 15 consignments were alleged
 to have been sent at the behest of Abdul Qadir from Dubai through a human
 carrier for whom the Appellant had arranged visas and air tickets.
 Proceedings leading to the present appeal 8. In the present case, the chargesheet was filed by the NIA on 24th June,
 2022 against all the accused persons i.e., Mohammad Shahjan, Amir-Ul-Haq,
 the Appellant and Amandeep Singh under Sections 489B , 489C and 120B IPC
 and Sections 16 & 18 of the UAPA. 9. Two supplementary chargesheets bearing No.15A and 15B of 2022
 dated 22nd March, 2023 and 21st September, 2023 were also filed. Thereafter,
 on 31st May, 2023, charges were framed against the Appellant and Amir-Ul-
 Haq under Section 18 of the UAPA, with alternative charges for offences
 under Section 489C read with 120B IPC . 10. In the meantime, the Appellant filed a bail application before the Trial Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 3 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 Court on 24th August, 2022 praying for regular bail. Reply to the bail
 application was filed by the NIA on 5th September, 2022.
 Impugned order 1. Vide order dated 28th February, 2024, the Trial Court rejected the bail of
 the Appellant on the ground that in such cases the bail must be rejected as
 a rule, after the Court has perused the final report or the case diary, and if
 there is a reasonable ground for believing that the accusation is prima
 facie correct, then bail ought not to be granted. 2. The Trial Court also examined the Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA, and
 applied the two-pronged test as propounded in Gurwinder Singh v. State
 of Punjab & Another (2024 INSC 92) for rejecting grant of bail. The Trial
 Court then analyzed the investigation and the findings therefrom of the
 NIA. Salient points of the reasoning given by the Trial Court are as
 follows: ● The material on record shows that, according to the statement of
 PW-12 Faiz Ahmed, the Appellant was in direct contact with
 Abdul Qadir, and the Appellant was looking after his work in
 Delhi. ● The statement of PW-12 further reveals that A2 used to come to
 the counter of the Appellant, and drop cloth bundles smuggled
 from Dubai to India. ● According to the Trial Court, to cross the bar under Section
 43D(5) of the UAPA, the accused must establish that the case is
 prima facie not true. Following the judgment of the Supreme
 Court in Vernon v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. [(Crl. Appeal
 No. 640/2023) decided on 28th July, 2023], surface level
 probative value of the material on record is to be assessed. The
 judgment of Gurwinder Singh (Supra) specifically lays down
 the meaning of prima facie true, and the material on record must
 be assessed in this context. ● The material on record shows that money was paid by the
 Appellant through co-accused Amir-ul-Haq, indicating that the
 Appellant was part of the conspiracy involving smuggling
 consignments containing high-quality FICN, gold, and other
 counterfeit items. ● The circumstances and statements of witnesses must be seen in
 light of the actual recovery of high-quality FICN from the
 accused Mohd. Shahjan. ● There are also allegations against the Appellant that he
 maintained account details, and a notebook was also recovered.
 ● The facts of the case and the material on record, including
 statements and documents, indicate that the evidence is not
 dismissible at the outset. Therefore, the Appellant could not
 cross the bar laid down under Section 43-D(5) of UAPA, and the
 bail application was dismissed. Submissions of the parties 11. The case of the Appellant, as canvassed by Mr. Rahul Raheja, ld.
 Counsel, is that the bail application has been wrongly rejected by the Trial
 Court. The Appellant was not in any way involved in the smuggling of
 counterfeit currency. He is a businessman, who is engaged in the business of
 export/import of burkhas and gold. According to ld. Counsel for the
 Appellant, there is no material whatsoever on record to link the Appellant to
 the counterfeit currency. The Appellant was not aware of any smuggling
 conducted by either Mohd. Shahjan or Amir-Ul-Haq. 12. The further submission is that co-accused Amandeep Singh (A-4) has
 already been discharged by the Trial Court. Amandeep Singh, who faced the
 same or similar charges, has been granted regular bail by the ld. Trial Court.
 Therefore, the present Appellant prays for the same consideration based on
 the Doctrine of Parity. 13. Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant submits that the latter
 was not aware of the smuggling of counterfeit currency by heavily relying
 upon disclosure statement of the Appellant dated 6th March, 2022 under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. The Court was taken through the said
 disclosure statement and it was pointed out that the appellant had stated
 therein that once in December, 2021, Abdul Kadir had called him and asked
 that he will send Indian currency, which he would have to hand over to some
 unknown persons. It was further recorded therein that in the first week of
 January, 2022, he sent FICN, but he was not aware about the said FICN and
 that Abdul Kadir had told him that this consignment was very important and
 he will inform to whom this consignment was to be delivered, once it reaches.
 Relying on the aforesaid portion of the disclosure statement, it is the Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 6 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 submission of the ld. Counsel for the Appellant that it is the case of the
 Prosecution itself that the Appellant was not aware about the smuggling of
 FICN. 14. In addition, the disclosure statement of the Appellant dated 6th March,
 2022 himself proves that he was engaged in dealing with counterfeit currency.
 Reliance is also placed upon the diary/notepad maintained by the Appellant,
 which mentions the specifics of the transactions, wherein the Appellant paid
 money to Amir-Ul-Haq on the directions of Abdul Qadir@ Sheikh Sahab to
 facilitate the smuggling of FICN from Dubai to India. 15. Per contra, ld. SPP Mr. Gautam Narayan appearing for the NIA
 submits the statements given by the PW-10 Mohd. Irshad, PW-11
 Mansooruddin@ Mansoor and PW-12 Faiz Ahmad clearly nail the Appellant. 16. Ld. SPP also argued that the impugned order is well-reasoned and
 based on a thorough examination of the investigation materials, with no errors
 or irregularities and does not warrant interference by this Court. 17. It is further submitted that voice notes recovered from Amir-Ul-Haq's
 mobile device and the Notepad of the Appellant, seized from Sh. Faiz Ahmad,
 demonstrates the Appellant's active role in the conspiracy. Reliance is also
 placed upon the report of the handwriting expert dated 11th August, 2022
 marked as Ex. D-22/C. Transcripts of voice notes recovered from A-2's
 mobile device on 12th January, 2022 also corroborate the Appellant's
 involvement. 18. Lastly, it is argued that there is a strong apprehension that the Appellant
 might flee and impede justice if granted bail, especially given the trial's
 crucial stage and the need to examine key witnesses. Analysis and Conclusions
 Legal position of bail under UAPA 19. In the present case, the Appellant is charged under Section 18 of the
 UAPA Act, which reads as under: 20. A perusal of the above provision shows that even 'facilitating a
 terrorist act' would be an offence under UAPA. Though initially, the
 Appellant was charged under Section 16 of the UAPA, the final charge sheet
 against the Appellant was restricted to only Section 18 of the UAPA. Under Section 15 of the UAPA, actions that affect the economic security of the
 country, including the circulation of high-quality counterfeit Indian paper
 currency, constitute a terrorist act. Explanation (b) under Section 15 of the
 UAPA reads as follows: Explanation.--For the purpose of this sub-section,--
 ... (b) "high quality counterfeit Indian currency" means
 the counterfeit currency as may be declared after
 examination by an authorised or notified forensic
 authority that such currency imitates or compromises
 with the key security features as specified in the Third
 Schedule." 21. The UAPA is a special Act, which has provisions that lay down
 standards to be adopted for grant of bail. Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA reads
 as under: 22. A perusal of the above provision shows that the threshold for granting
 bail under Section 43-D(5) of UAPA is quite high; the accused person shall
 not be released on bail if the Court is of the opinion that there are grounds to
 believe that the allegations against the accused are prima facie true. This
 provision has been recently considered by the Supreme Court in the following
 three decisions: 23. The decision in Gurwinder Singh (supra) has discussed the decision
 in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) in detail, and has, in fact, laid down
 the standards by which bail applications under Section 43-D(5) of UAPA are
 to be judged - as objectively as possible. 24. In Gurwinder Singh (supra), an appeal was filed against the order
 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, which upheld the Special
 Judge's decision denying regular bail to Gurwinder Singh and co-accused in
 an NIA case. Charges were framed against the accused under IPC , UAPA, Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 10 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 and Arms Act , and arose out of an incident where two individuals were
 apprehended for hanging 'Khalistan' banners. The investigation revealed a
 terrorist module linked to the banned organization 'Sikhs for Justice', with the
 accused allegedly receiving funds through illegal means for separatist
 activities and attempts to procure weapons. 25. The Trial Court in Gurwinder Singh (supra) dismissed the bail
 application based on reasonable grounds to believe that the accusations
 against the Appellant were true. Subsequent investigation reports, including a
 4th supplementary chargesheet, and disclosure statements from other co-
 accused further implicated the Appellant in the conspiracy. The High Court,
 considering the seriousness of the offences and considering that the protected
 witnesses were to be examined also rejected the bail plea. 26. The Supreme Court, affirming the High Court's decision, also rejected
 the bail application due to several reasons. Firstly, despite the Appellant's
 counsel arguing that the Appellant's mobile phone had not been scrutinized,
 call detail records showed consistent communication between the Appellant
 and co-accused Bikramjit Singh (Accused No.3), and secondly, the
 Appellant's and co-accused's disclosure statements corroborated each other,
 indicating their trip to Srinagar to procure weapons for terrorist activities,
 even though the Appellant claimed ignorance of the purpose of the trip. 27. In Gurwinder Singh (supra), the Supreme Court has discussed the
 scope of Section 43-D (5) of UAPA, and observed that, unlike in conventional
 bail matters, where bail is a rule, and jail is an exception, under the UAPA,
 the intention is to make the 'bail an exception and jail a rule'. The Supreme
 Court provided clear guidelines as to the manner in which grant of bail under Section 43-D(5) of UAPA is to be considered. The relevant portion of the Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 11 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 said decision is extracted below: 20. In this background, the test for rejection of bail is Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 12 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 quite plain. Bail must be rejected as a 'rule', if after
 hearing the public prosecutor and after perusing the
 final report or Case Diary, the Court arrives at a
 conclusion that there are reasonable grounds for
 believing that the accusations are prima facie true. It
 is only if the test for rejection of bail is not satisfied -
 that the Courts would proceed to decide the bail
 application in accordance with the 'tripod test' (flight
 risk, influencing witnesses, tampering with evidence).
 This position is made clear by Sub-section (6) of Section 43D , which lays down that the restrictions, on
 granting of bail specified in Sub-section (5), are in
 addition to the restrictions under the Code of Criminal
 Procedure or any other law for the time being in force
 on grant of bail. 21. On a textual reading of Section 43 D(5) UAP Act ,
 the inquiry that a bail court must undertake while
 deciding bail applications under the UAP Act can be
 summarised in the form of a twin-prong test: 1.1 Examine if, prima facie, the alleged 'accusations'
 make out an offence under Chapter IV or VI of the
 UAP Act

 1.2 Such examination should be limited to case diary
 and final report submitted under Section 173 CrPC; 2) Whether the accused deserves to be enlarged on bail
 in light of the general principles relating to grant of
 bail under Section 439 CrPC ('tripod test')? On a consideration of various factors such as nature
 of offence, length of punishment (if convicted), age,
 character, status of accused etc., the Courts must ask
 itself: 2.1 Whether the accused is a flight risk? 2.2 Whether there is apprehension of the accused
 tampering with the evidence? 2.3 Whether there is apprehension of accused
 influencing witnesses? 22. The question of entering the 'second test' of the
 inquiry will not arise if the 'first test' is satisfied. And
 merely because the first test is satisfied, that does not
 mean however that the accused is automatically
 entitled to bail. The accused will have to show that he
 successfully passes the 'tripod test'." 28. Paragraph 21 of the judgment as extracted above, prescribes the 'twin-
 prong' test, which was the basis applied by the Trial Court in the rejecting
 grant of bail in the present case. Under this test, the first consideration is
 whether the reasons for rejecting bail are sufficient, and whether the test for
 rejection was satisfied. Thereafter, as part of the second prong, the Court is
 required to apply the 'tripod test', which is the usual test for grant or non-
 grant of bail i.e., 'flight risk, influencing of witnesses and tampering of
 evidence'. The Court also analysed Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) and
 crystallized eight propositions as laid down in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) as under: ● Duration of the limitation under Section
 43D(5) [para 26]: The special provision, Section 43-D of the 1967 Act, applies right
 from the stage of registration of FIR for the
 offences under Chapters IV and VI of the 1967
 Act until the conclusion of the trial thereof. ● Material on record must be analysed as a
 'whole'; no piecemeal analysis [para 27]: The
 totality of the material gathered by the
 investigating agency and presented along with
 the report and including the case diary, is
 required to be reckoned and not by analysing
 individual pieces of evidence or circumstance. ● Contents of documents to be presumed as true
 [para 27]: The Court must look at the contents
 of the document and take such document into
 account as it is. ● Admissibility of documents relied upon by
 Prosecution cannot be questioned [para 27]. The materials/evidence collected by the
 investigation agency in support of the
 accusation against the accused in the first
 information report must prevail until
 contradicted and overcome or disproved by Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 16 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 other evidence.......In any case, the question of
 discarding the document at this stage, on the
 ground of being inadmissible in evidence, is not
 permissible." 29. Recently, in Sheikh Javed Iqbal (supra), the Supreme Court focused
 on the issue of speedy trial even in cases under the UAPA. This case also
 involved circulation of fake currency, and the accused had been in custody for
 more than five years. The Supreme Court emphasised that 'speedy trial' is
 part of the fundamental rights of any accused. If the trial continues
 indefinitely, bail ought to be granted, even in a case under the UAPA. The
 relevant extract from the judgment is set out below: 30. In Sheikh Javed Iqbal (supra), the Supreme Court granted bail and
 distinguished Gurwinder Singh (supra) on the ground that the trial was
 underway in the said case, and 22 witnesses had already been examined. 31. A similar factual situation arose for consideration before the ld.
 Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Surojit Mandal v. National
 Investigation Agency (MANU/WB/1106/2022 ). In the said decision , the
 prosecution alleged that the Appellant (i.e., Surojit Mandal) financed, aided,
 and abetted the circulation of high-quality counterfeit currency notes in
 conspiracy with three co-accused. High-quality counterfeit currency notes
 were seized from all the three accused on different instances. The
 investigation revealed active telephonic communication between the
 Appellant and two accused from December 2019. Additionally, Rs. 1,38,000/-
 was transferred from the Appellant and his sister-in-law's accounts to one of
 the accused's bank accounts shortly before the counterfeit notes were
 recovered. The Calcutta High Court refused to interfere with the order of the
 Trial Court rejecting bail, and observed that role of the Appellant in the
 alleged offences was prima facie true. The relevant observations read as
 follows: 32. In J. Kaleel Rahman v. State of Maharashtra (Criminal Appeal No.
 118 of 2021, decision dated 24th August, 2021), the ld. Division Bench of the
 Bombay High Court was also considering an appeal challenging the rejection
 of grant of bail in a similar scenario involving FICNs. In the said decision, the
 Appellant (Accused No. 3) was implicated in a conspiracy with two other
 accused to smuggle FICN from Malaysia. The other accused deposited had
 Rs. 45,000/- in the Appellant's bank account in January, 2020 on instructions
 from a wanted accused in Malaysia, towards the cost of FICN valued at
 Rs.1,00,000/-. The Appellant, who was in Malaysia at the time, returned to
 India on 21st January, 2020 and withdrew Rs. 50,000/- from the account the
 next day. Subsequently, the Appellant was arrested on 27th February, 2020 at Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 19 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 Chennai Airport upon his return from Malaysia. The Appellant claimed
 ignorance about the depositors. His bail application was denied by the Special
 Judge, NIA Court, based on material evidence. The ld. Division Bench of the
 Bombay High Court refused to interfere with the findings of the ld. Trial
 Court, and observed as follows: 33. In Shahnawaz Ansari @ Bunty Ansari @ Bunty v. Union of India
 (2023:AHC-LKO:75615-DB), the Appellant challenged the order passed by
 the ld. Special Judge which rejected the third bail application of the Appellant
 under various sections of the IPC, UAPA, and Arms Act. The Appellant was
 not named in the initial FIR or the first charge sheet, and was only implicated
 in a supplementary charge sheet based on statements from co-accused, despite
 no recovery of forged currency from him. 34. In the said decision, the Allahabad High Court considered the
 telephonic conversations and transcripts of intercepts between one Murad
 Alam and the Appellant both before and after the delivery of a consignment
 of fake currency notes, establishing that they were part of a larger conspiracy,
 including accused Tausif Alam. The charge sheet gave details of the mobile
 numbers of the accused and mentions that one Tausif Alam was in contact
 with the Appellant during Murad Alam's travel to Bengal to collect FICN.
 The ld. Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court, while refusing to Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 21 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 interfere with the decision of the ld. Special Judge, also considered transcripts
 and CDRs that indicated that one Murad Alam travelled under Appellant's
 direction, received funds from him for the journey, and maintained contact
 throughout the trip. The relevant portions of the said decision are extract
 below: 35. The above decision passed by the ld. Division Bench of the Allahabad
 High Court was assailed before the Supreme Court in SLP (Crl.) 377/2024
 titled 'Shahnawaz Ansari@ Bunty Ansari v. Union of India '. Vide order
 dated 12th January, 2024, the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the
 judgment passed by the ld. Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court. 36. The present case ought to be considered in the backdrop of the above
 decisions and the facts, which have emerged on record. 37. A perusal of the charge sheet in the present case shows that the
 Appellant is 29 years old, and is described as a money exchanger. The charge
 sheet relies upon forensic reports received from CFSL, CBI in relation to the
 voice messages retrieved from the data of Amir-Ul-Haq. Regarding the
 Appellant, the allegation in the charge sheet is that he handed over Rs.
 10,000/- and Rs. 20,000/- on two occasions to A-2 Amir-Ul-Haq in the first
 week of January, 2022. The conversations also reveal that he is in touch on a
 regular basis with the other co-accused and is also working under directions
 of Abdul Qadir @Sheikh Sahab. The Appellant is also being referred to
 regularly in conversations as though he is part of the team. The relevant
 portion from the charge sheet is extracted below: ● Amir speaking "bataiye sheikh saab, total 40 chiyea
 ya 45? Saddam bhai se maine sirf 35 bola hal, 5
 rakha hua hai 40000 ka, agar 45 karna hai to,
 saddam bhai ko 40 boloonga, 5 rakha hua hai 45 ho
 jayega. Bata dijiye aap mujhe
 ● Amir speaking "aaj ki Rehan ki ticket issliyea nahi
 bani, GDRF ka approval nahi aaya tha uska, RR ho
 jata banda, Mansoor bhai keh rahe hain ki iska
 approval nahi aaya tha RR ho jata, isliye aaj ki nahi
 ho pai. Ab kal ki hai iski seat. Abhi maine poocha
 time kitne baje ki hai fir usi hisab se panja launga,
 saddam bhai ke paas hi baitha hua hun. Aur main
 ye keh raha tha ki 4000 kal ka bacha hua hai panja
 humare paar aur 1000 parso ka." ● Sheikh Saab speaking "Sheikh saab Saddam ke yaha
 se 37500 ka purchase hai aur yaha par hai 36500,
 to zara batao." 38. The charge sheet also states that the Appellant had arranged for visas
 and air tickets & courier at the behest of Abdul Qadir. Relevant part is set out
 below: approx. for visa/tickets of each courier to Mansoor-
 uddin @ Mansoor A-3 used to keep records of such
 money distribution/receipt in one note pad which has
 been seized and sent to the CFSL (CBI) for forensic
 examination." 39. The charge sheet also records recovery of the Notepad/diary in the hand
 writing of the Appellant, mentioning various amounts received. 40. The Trial Court considered the main charge sheet and the order on
 charge passed by the Trial Court on 31st May, 2023. In the said order, insofar
 as the Appellant is concerned, the following are the observations of the Trial
 Court. 41. Thus, the Trial Court has framed charges under Section 18 of the UAPA
 against the Appellant and has discharged the Appellant under Section 16 of
 the UAPA. 42. A perusal of the disclosure statement made by the Appellant shows that
 he admits that in December, 2021, Abdul Qadir had called him and asked, if
 he would hand over some Indian currency, which would be sent to unknown
 persons. Relevant portion of the said disclosure statement reads as under: 43. The Respondent-NIA relies upon the statements of PW-10, PW-11, and
 PW-12. In his statement, PW-10 clearly stated that he used to deliver several
 air tickets and visas to the Appellant. PW-10 also confirmed that when he was
 unclear about why there were so many air tickets and visas, he was informed Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 28 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 by Amir-Ul-Haq that Abdul Qadir was his business partner from whom he
 used to import goods and thus required carriers for this work. PW-11 also
 stated that the Appellant was actively involved in the business of air tickets
 and visas and described how they were being booked under the directions of
 Abdul Qadir. PW-11 further stated that he had received several payments
 from the Appellant for visas and air tickets for various travelers on different
 occasions. 44. PW-12 confirmed that the Appellant used to run a money exchange
 counter outside his shop. He also stated that the Appellant was in direct
 contact with Abdul Qadir, who was in Dubai. One important statement made
 by PW-12 is that Amir-Ul-Haq used to pick up and drop bundles of burkha
 cloth at the Appellant's counter. In fact, when the seizure was made at IGI
 Airport from Mohd. Shajan, the high quality FICN were hidden in bundles of
 cloth. PW-12 also stated that the Appellant used to make entries of the
 payments received and distributed, in a Notepad (Ex. D-22/A). The Notepad,
 which was seized, contains various entries for different amounts. Entries in
 the Notepad also mention Abdul Qadir, several payments against various
 amounts. The Notepad has been examined by CFSL, CBI which confirmed
 the handwriting as that of the Appellant (Handwriting Examination Report
 dated 11th August, 2022, Ex. D-22/C). 45. Various transcripts of phone conversations recovered on 12th January,
 2022 from the mobile device of Amir-Ul-Haq have been translated and placed
 on record (Ex. D-46), repeatedly referencing the Appellant. 46. All these facts, in fact, have also been considered and analysed by the
 Trial Court. The evidence, which is on record, read along with the statement
 made by PW-10, PW-11 & PW-12, do point towards the fact that there are Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 29 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 reasonable grounds to believe that the Appellant was an active player in the
 circulation of high quality counterfeit Indian currency. 47. So far as the contention of the ld. Counsel for the Appellant with regard
 to claim of parity with A-4 Amandeep Singh is concerned, it is noted that the
 ld. Trial Court after analysing the material on record had come to the
 conclusion that the Prosecution has not been able to establish any case qua
 the said accused. The ld. Trial Court observed as under: 48. Hence, the case of the Appellant stands on a completely different
 footing from as that of A-4 Amandeep Singh. 49. A perusal of the above shows that there are sufficient grounds at this
 stage to believe that the allegations against the Appellant are prima facie true. 50. Circulation of fake currency impinges upon the economic security of
 the country, and such circulation could have a disastrous effect on the
 economy. The term 'economic security' has been specifically added as a
 'terrorist act' under Section 15 of the UAPA in 2013, along with an
 Explanation (b) defining 'high quality counterfeit Indian currency'. Persons
 who may be involved in circulation of fake currency, operate through several
 back-channel networks, which span across countries. They do not use usual
 channels of communication, and fake currency is usually introduced into the
 market in an extremely clandestine manner. Penetration of networks related
 to fake currency can pose a grave challenge for the investigation agency as
 well. 51. At this stage, the evidence on record does not point to the innocence of
 the Appellant, but on the contrary prima facie points to the fact that the
 Appellant is involved in facilitating the circulation of high-quality counterfeit
 Indian currency. 52. The mention of various names in the Notepad/diary, which has been
 proven to be in the handwriting of the Appellant, indicates that the Appellant
 has connections with individuals directly involved in the handling of fake
 currency. 53. Further, the tests laid down by the Supreme Court in Gurwinder Singh (supra) are fully satisfied in the facts of the present case. One of the factors Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 31 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 laid down even in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) which has been
 reaffirmed by the Supreme Court in Gurwinder Singh (supra) for
 consideration of bail, is that if the charge is framed, it is safe to assume there
 is a strong suspicion based on the material, which is satisfied in this case. The
 relevant portion of the decision in Gurwinder Singh (supra) reads as follows: 54. The Appellant's claim that he was unaware the currency being dealt
 with was fake would also need to be established before the Trial Court at the
 appropriate stage. The stand of the Appellant, that he is merely involved in
 the business of import/export of burkhas and other garments and gold, would
 have to be raised as a defence to be established before the Trial Court. 55. At this stage, the trial is ongoing, and two witnesses have been
 examined. The Appellant has been in custody for two years. Considering the
 maximum punishment prescribed under Section 18 of the UAPA, and the
 present stage of the trial, this Court is not inclined to grant bail to the Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 32 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00 Appellant at this stage. The impugned order of the ld. Trial Court dated 28th
 February, 2024 does not warrant any interference this Court. 56. The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed. No order as to costs. All pending
 applications, if any, are disposed of. 57. Let the present order be communicated to the concerned Jail
 Superintendent, and the ld. Trial Court for information. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE

 AMIT SHARMA
 JUDGE
 AUGUST 07, 2024/dk/dn Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 283/2024 Page 33 of 33 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:07.08.2024 16:00