This appeal has been filed by the husband against the

 order dated 8.5.2017 passed by the Additional District Judge, Patiala

 whereby his petition under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act,1955

 (hereinafter 'the Act'), seeking dissolution of his marriage with the

 respondent on the ground of cruelty and desertion has been dismissed. Briefly stated the facts are that the parties were

 married according to Sikh rites and ceremonies at Ludhiana on

 11.11.2012. After marriage they cohabited together as husband and

 wife. No child was born of this wedlock. It is appellant's case that soon RAJINDER PARSHAD JOSHI 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 2 after their marriage the respondent started pressurising him to leave his

 job as C.O., Dental Centre, Air Force Station, Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh

 so as to settle in Patiala where her parental home was. She is stated to

 be dominating and disrespectful to him and his family and picked up

 quarrel for no reasons. She is also stated to have physically assaulted

 the petitioner at times and misbehaved with him and insulted him in the

 presence of his relatives and friends. It is further alleged that the

 respondent frequently behaved offensively and arrogantly using bad

 language, and would lock herself up in her room for hours threatening to

 do something drastic and implicate the appellant in criminal case

 involving non-bailable offences. Appellant states that this caused him

 great mental tension and agony. It is averred that to please the

 respondent the appellant also brought her to her parental home on Lohri

 soon after their marriage in the month of April 2013, as the respondent

 preferred to stay mostly in her parental home. He brought her back on

 24.4.2013. The appellant was transferred from Gorakhpur to Udhampur

 on 28.8.2013 and was to join on 5.9.2013. During this period while they

 were staying at the appellant's parents' house the respondent left from

 there on 1.9.2013 without any reasonable cause and she took away all

 her dowry articles including the ones given to her by the appellant's

 parents and she did not join the appellant's company thereafter though

 he requested and pleaded with her several times. Accordingly it was

 pleaded that the respondent had deserted the appellant. On the other hand, respondent denied all the

 allegations and stated that in fact she had been deserted by the

 appellant. She stated that prior to her marriage she had worked as

 Ayurvedic Medical Officer for four years in the State Health Department. RAJINDER PARSHAD JOSHI 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 3 However, she had been forced by the appellant to leave her Government

 job. She further states that after marriage she moved to Gorakhpur with

 her husband but soon thereafter he started torturing her and making

 illegal demand of dowry and would beat her mercilessly and never paid

 any maintenance to her because of which she had to seek monetary help

 from her parents. Respondent further states that the appellant constantly

 mocked her abusively for bringing inadequate dowry and made her work

 as domestic help and would lock her in room for hours together. It is

 further stated that in April 2013 respondent was sent to her parental home

 for a long time and was brought back to Ludhiana on 24.4.2013 to attend

 the engagement ceremony of the appellant's cousin which was

 scheduled for 27.4.2013. She further states that appellant's parents

 visited Gorakhpur in July 2013. Thereafter prior to appellant's transfer

 from Gorakhpur to Udhampur they stayed in the appellant's parents'

 home and that on 1.9.2013 the appellant along with his parents threw the

 respondent out of the matrimonial home and appellant flatly refused to

 take her with him to Udhampur. Eventually the respondent was

 constrained to approach the police authorities and registered case under Section 406 / 498-A , 377 IPC against the appellant. The appellant filed replication before the trial Court

 controverting the abovesaid allegations of the respondent and stated that

 the respondent had filed innumerable false complaints against the

 appellant and his family. The respondent had filed a false complaint on

 25.3.2014 against the appellant; and then again on 1.4.2014 before DSP,

 Patiala. Appellant stated that he and his mother were facing trial in the

 Court of JMIC, Patiala, on totally false charges levelled by the

 respondent. Not only this she had also filed false complaints before the RAJINDER PARSHAD JOSHI 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 4 Army Wives Welfare Association on 27.3.2015 and the worst was that

 the respondent had levelled false allegations against the appellant's

 father alleging that the appellant's father had behaved with her in an

 objectionable and inappropriate manner. Appellant further denied that

 the respondent had been turned out of the matrimonial home. It was

 stated that in fact the respondent had left directly from the venue of his

 cousin's wedding along with her brother and father on 1.9.2013 on the

 pretext of visiting her ailing mother for a few days whereafter she never

 came back and never replied to the appellant's requests to join the

 matrimonial home. Appellant further stated that he had got a return

 Railway ticket booked for both of them from Ludhiana to Udhampur for

 27.12.2013. However, she never joined him. On the contrary she sent

 her father and brother on 27.12.2013 to bring back all her educational

 and professional certificates from which it was clear that she had no plan

 to return to her matrimonial home. It was further stated that numerous

 complaints made by her to his professional Headquarters had caused

 him immense embarrassment in front of his seniors and colleagues. This

 had caused him mental harassment and ruined his reputation in his

 fraternity. On 26.10.2014 and then on 8.1.2015 the respondent had filed

 false online dowry complaints against him with the National Commission

 for Women, New Delhi. Respondent further filed a criminal complaint

 against him before this Court in 2014 and against senior Police

 authorities of State of Punjab seeking directions for the arrest of the

 appellant even though he had already been granted interim bail by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court on 15.12.2014. Respondent also continuously

 alleged that her jewellery and other valuable articles were still in the

 possession of the appellant and his family though the entire istri dhan of RAJINDER PARSHAD JOSHI 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 5 the respondent had been handed over to her by the appellant's mother

 at Women Police Station, Patiala on 23.6.2014 when his mother had

 been granted interim bail which was later on made absolute on

 28.6.2014. On the basis of the aforesaid pleadings and

 submissions, the trial Court framed the following issues: In support of his petition the appellant appeared in the

 witness box as PW1 and also examined his sister-in-law (brother's wife)

 Maninder Jit Ahuja as PW2, and led various other documentary evidence

 from Ex. P-1 to Ex. P-14. Respondent appeared as RW1, and also led

 documentary evidence Ex.R1 to R-24 whereafter she closed her

 evidence. The learned Additional District Judge, Patiala on the

 basis of the above facts and submissions made by the parties as also

 after considering numerous judgments of this Court and the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court, dismissed the appellant's petition u/s 13 of the Act,

 primarily on the grounds that: It is on the basis of above Ex. R11 and R12 that the

 counsel for respondent states that this constitutes appellant's admission

 to unnatural sex. Counsel further states that the respondent is still willing

 to go back to her matrimonial home. No further argument has been raised

 on behalf of the respondent. 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 9 Learned counsel for the respondent placed reliance

 upon Sarbjit Kaur v Lakhvir Singh , 2021(1) RCR (Civil) 749; Yogender Singh v Smt.Sunta, FAO 127-M of 2004; Ashok Kumar

 Jain v Sumati Jain , 2013(2) RCR (Civil) 835; Chetan Dass v Kamla

 Devi , 2001(2) RCR (Civil) 641; Darshan Gupta v Radhika Gupta ,

 2013(9) SCC 1; Gurbux Singh v Harminder Kaur ; 2011 AIR(SC) 114; Neelam Kumar v Dayarani , 2011 AIR(SC) 193; Ravi Kumar v Julmi

 Devi 2010 (2) RCR (Civil) 178; Savitri Pandey v Prem Chandra

 Pandey , 2002(1) RCR (Civil) 719; and judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in Neelam Kumar v Dayarani, Civil Appeal No.1957 of 2006. We have heard learned counsel for the parties, and

 perused the evidence led by the parties/ Lower Court record in great

 detail. Counsel have also submitted brief synopsis and referred to various

 judgments, which has been considered by this Court. It may be

 mentioned that this Court had also referred the matter to mediation, but

 a resolution could not be found. We shall examine each aspect of the

 matter, as also test the veracity of the reasoning forwarded by the ld. Trial

 Court on the touchstone of evidence led by the parties. The appellant has sought divorce primarily on the

 ground of cruelty. But the ld. Family Court has held that no cruelty on part

 of the respondent is made out as the appellant had levelled "very general

 and vague allegations with regard to the cruel behaviour of the

 respondent. ... mere general allegations have been levelled by the

 petitioner in his petition with regard to cruelty." In our view, this finding is factually incorrect as a

 perusal of the record reveals that the respondent has levelled the most

 objectionable allegations against the appellant and his family. The most RAJINDER PARSHAD JOSHI 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 10 obnoxious of these can be said to be the imputations she has made

 against her father-in-law stating that he used to behave inappropriately

 towards her. A perusal of Ex. RW1A pg. 153 at pg. 160 of the Lower

 Court Record - which is the respondent's evidence on oath by way of

 affidavit - shows that the respondent has stated as follows: "The father-

 in-law of the deponent is not only a greedy person, but had an evil eye

 on the deponent. He behaved inappropriately with the deponent by his

 indecent gestures and behaviour that are never expected from a fatherly

 figure." In her cross examination as RW1 the respondent

 again stated that "I did not complain regarding the evil eye of my father

 in law to any authority. It is correct that the story of allegation of evil eye

 on me by my father-in-law was not found correct by the police as such

 my father-in-law was not Challaned by the police." This Court, as well as the Hon'ble Supreme Court have held in

 numerous decisions that false allegations made by a party against the

 spouse or his/her family, amount to cruelty. Admittedly in this case, the

 respondent has unequivocally admitted in her cross-examination that her

 complaint against her father in law alleging inappropriate behaviour was

 found to be false by the police, and therefore he was not challaned.

 However, the learned Court below has not dealt with this aspect at all. A

 reference has been made in para 13 of the impugned order to the

 evidence of respondent as RW1 to the effect that "she never complained

 against her father-in-law keeping an evil eye upon her during her stay at

 her in-law's house. She stated that her allegations against her father in

 law were not found correct and he was not challaned." Thus, though the

 ld. Court below has noticed this fact, yet, has not considered or dealt with RAJINDER PARSHAD JOSHI 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 11 this aspect of the matter at all. Furthermore, the record reveals that the respondent

 made the following complaints to various authorities at various times.

 This list of complaints may be summarised as follows: The impugned order shows that the ld. Court below h

 has noticed the vital fact of these numerous complaints and also referred

 to the respondent's statement in this regard as follows:- Despite the above admissions on the part of the

 respondent, the ld. Court below has rejected this fact and held that even

 though the respondent had filed so many complaints but no cruelty is

 made out because all these complaints had been made after the

 appellant had filed the petition for divorce. In the impugned order the ld.

 Court has observed as follows: We are again in disagreement with the view

 taken by the ld. Court below. In this regard, the following observations of

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in K. Srinivas v. K. Sunita (SC ) : Law

 Finder Doc Id # 632736 are apposite: Moreover, this Court as well as the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court have repeatedly held that if the wife files frequent and frivolous

 complaints against her spouse, it amounts to cruelty and is sufficient

 ground for divorce. In this regard reference may be made to one such

 judgment passed by Hon'ble the Supreme Court in the case of 'Joydeep

 Majumdar v. Bharti Jaiswal Majumdar (SC ) : Law Finder Doc Id #

 1813316', wherein a 3-Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

 been pleased to hold as follows: Again in 'Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam v. State of

 Bihar (SC) : Law Finder Doc Id # 1941423,' the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 held as follows: In this regard, the statements made by PW2 Maninderjeet Kaur,

 who is the sister-in-law of the appellant, his brother's wife, are very

 important. She has categorically stated that none of her in-laws have ever

 raised any demand for dowry, or troubled her. In 'Raj Talreja v. Kavita Talreja ', (2017) 14 SCC 194, the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows: Perusal of the record further reveals that appellant had bought

 return Railway ticket from Ludhiana to Udhampur for travel on

 27.12.2013. It is alleged against him that he had bought these tickets

 only to create evidence as, in actual fact he had plans to separate from

 the respondent as, he had filed the petition for divorce soon thereafter

 which is on 2.1.2014. In our view this finding of the learned Court below

 is erroneous and conjectural. It is undisputed that the appellant had

 bought the ticket. It is an uncontroverted fact that the respondent's father

 and brother had also come to the matrimonial home on 27.12.2013 and

 had taken all her remaining belongings in form of certificates etc back

 with them. Thus, it is more likely that when the respondent did not

 accompany the appellant to Udhampur on 27.12.2013 he was left with no

 alternative but to accept the finality of the situation, and accept her

 departure on 1.9.2013, and had in these circumstances filed the petition

 for divorce on 2.1.2014. In our view, the conduct of the parties in the present

 case evidences that there are irreconcilable differences between the

 parties, rendering the marriage, as of today, a mere legal fiction. It is not

 in dispute that the parties are residing separately since 2013. Even

 mediation attempts between the parties have remained unsuccessful.

 Though irretrievable breakdown of marriage is not available as a ground

 under the statute, yet, the reality of it has been recognised by the

 Supreme Court in a catena of decisions. Reference in this regard may be

 made to some: 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 19 36. Having found that consent of the parties is not necessary
 to declare a marriage dissolved, we cannot be unmindful of the
 facts as they exist in reality. There has been a marriage which
 took place on 31.10.2004. There is a child born in the said
 marriage. No doubt being in contravention of Section 15 , it
 becomes a fait accompli but at the same time we do not
 reasonably perceive any possibility of the appellant and the
 respondent cohabiting as husband and wife. Whatever life was
 there in the marriage has been snuffed out by the passage of
 time, the appearance of new parties and vanishing of any bond
 between the parties. Not even the slightest possibility of
 rapprochement between the appellant and the respondent exists
 for reasons though which are entirely due to the actions of the
 appellant and for which the respondent cannot be blamed. The
 marriage between the appellant and the respondent has become
 dead. It can be described as a point of no return. There is no
 possibility of the appellant and the respondent stitching together
 any kind of a reasonable relationship as the tie between the
 parties has broken beyond repair and having regard to the facts
 of this case, we would think that it would be in the interest of
 justice and to do complete justice to the parties that we should
 pass an order dissolving the marriage between the appellant and
 the respondent. 37. We make it clear that this decision of ours is not based on
 our approval of the conduct of the appellant nor is it based on
 sitting in judgment over the conduct of the respondent. In other
 words, we find that respondent is blameless in the matter but the
 facts as they have unfolded and the developments which have
 taken place, render it unavoidable for us to consider dissolution
 of marriage as the best course open in the interest of justice."
 (Emphasis supplied) RAJINDER PARSHAD JOSHI 2022.10.14 10:38 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document FAO-M-182 of 2017 21 In our view, the above said pronouncement of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court squarely covers the issue at hand. Also, as stated above, in the present matter the parties

 have been living separately for the last almost ten years, since 2013.

 Reference at this stage can be made to the case of 'Naveen Kohli v.

 Neelu Kohli ', (2006) 4 SCC 558 which was also a case of cruelty (mental

 and physical) where the Hon'ble Supreme Court again considered the

 concept of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. In that case too the

 parties had been living separately since ten years and the wife was not

 ready to grant divorce to her husband. However, notwithstanding this

 factual position, Hon'ble Supreme Court was pleased to grant divorce in

 said matter and has further noticed as follows: Thus, in the conspectus of the peculiar facts and

 circumstances of the present case, and in consonance with the aforesaid

 pronouncements of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, with a view to do

 complete justice, and put an end to the agony of the parties, this Court

 deems it appropriate to allow the present appeal. Before parting, even though the parties have lived

 together in matrimonial home only for nine months, and even though there

 is no child from their wedlock, and even though during this litigation

 admittedly the appellant has already paid Rs. 23 lacs to the respondent

 as maintenance yet, we deem it fit to grant her permanent alimony of a

 sum of Rs. 18,00,000/- (Rupees eighteen lacs only) as full and final

 settlement. For the reasons stated above, this appeal is allowed;

 impugned order dated 8.5.2017 passed by the learned Additional District

 Judge, Patiala is set aside; the petition for divorce filed by the appellant-

 husband under Sections 13(ia) and (ib) of the Act is decreed and the

 marriage solemnized between the parties on 11.11.2012 is dissolved by

 a decree of divorce. All pending application(s),if any, stand disposed of.