SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Help-Scammed-Lakh+
DATE: 2020-09-29
SCORE: 20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/j1vgd6/helpscammedlakh/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Reddit,

 I am reaching out to you all for opinions. Never did I expect someone very close to me to get scammed of lakhs online. Currently I do not have much information as the party that got scammed hasn't told me this, I came to know that they lost 3+ lakhs in an online scam from another person.

I have limited information currently, but will get to know what happened in details soon.

What I know till now:
a) The party was told to send some money in the name of Flipkart? There were multiple 50k deposits involved(Sorry for the super vague information, I will create a new thread soon with details).
 
What I need help on:
a)What are the risks of a scammer having your bank account no.?

b)What should be done incase you do get scammed online? The party reached out to higher level cops but in vain. (Or so I was told)

c)The party can survive this loss, however is very anxious currently thinking that all their money might get stolen by the hAcKeRs( plain scammers I am guessing). They are opening a new account and planning to shift all the money to that account. Is this a good option? Won't telling the bank first help secure your account?

d) I am quite furious and plan to go full Karl Rock/ Jim Browning on their ass. Is it possible to hire people to do it for me ? 

e) The person who told me this, reached out to someone who advised them to take action within 2 months. They asked for more information and advised them to not do any online transactions. They don't fully trust them and hence, asked me if I could do a background check. I have the name of the person and the number.
In truecaller it shows the number belongs to "Consumer Court".

Could someone help me verify if this is a legit number? ( I am not comfortable sharing the number in public domain )

f) What are the chances of getting the money back?

Extra information off my chest:
Scammers are a topic I never really talked about at home as I believed that my own family would be well aware of this. I feel really annoyed that they fell for it. Please do reach out to people close to you and give a PSA regarding these scammers. You never know.

I personally wasn't told this so that I don't "take tension". Well I don't take tension as this isn't life threatening and I don't believe the chut scammers can make any transactions if they just have the bank account number. However, I would like to know the risks of this. I will update the thread or create a new one when I get more information.

Thank you all.
Fuck scammers and taking advantage of older people.