SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Story of us youth: Private Colleges, their fees and shenanigans.
DATE: 2015-12-01
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3v08og/story_of_us_youth_private_colleges_their_fees_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone, this post will be some kind of a rant. But bear with me, it addresses a growing problem in our country.

Engineering Colleges. Previously there were few but now they are propping up everywhere like weed(not the 420 one). They charge pretty decent amount of money from students(i.e. their parents) promising a "good education". What they don't... What they really advertise with is their MANY MANY industry connections that will almost gurantee(*subject to terms and conditions) that the student is placed in a job right after leaving college.

Yes, its true some of them do have nice infrastructure and nice facilities and professors that provide a great learning experience. However regarding the most important part, the part where they justify taking 50K or so Rupees each semester, i.e. placement at the end of course... Just how many get that? How many are placed? I had to take an education loan to pay for my college. We had great infrastructure and what not. Many companies came to recruit. However no one told us what the package was. I'll give you the TL;DR: the companies that did come most of them were trying to scam you into working for them with a bond, with no surety of confirmation or increments, for tenures of 2-5 years. Yes and this was at a salary that would be near impossible to provide for yourself even if you live at home, let alone pay back that huge 3-4Lacs you have in student debt. Not only that, after being placed, I was told, no you can easily live in Bangalore for 8k per month even after paying for rent, transportation food etc. Mind you this 8k was before deductions.

So, I among few others decided to change streams (i was in core and its hard to get jobs in the private sector in core engineering stream unless your luck is really good, having good grades didnt matter, our topper was forced into doing masters because he did not have any other viable options at that time, lucky for him no student debt).

I got placed off campus in a well reputed and large indian IT firm(after 3 pathetic offers in my stream from campus). The pay is ok, life is good. But you know I have been working for close to a year now, and i dont have anything to show myself that. I am 4.5Lacs in debt thanks to going to a college for a degree, which i could have gotten from any college that cost a fraction, and the college that went back on their promises and didnt get me a job. Mind you i dont think they can excuse saying i dont deserve one. I among those earning the highest from my batchmates.

So, WHY DO I OWE my student debt? The college is cheating us and they dont face any consequences?
Its fine now that SBI does provide subsidies but still it doesnt solve the real issue. I think colleges should be responsible for placing their students or they have to rebate some of their fees. Specially for colleges who charge much higher than the university set tuition fees.

SO to draw a conclusion to this tiresome post, I suggest you wait a year or more if you dont get into a Govt. College or at least a college that is 10years old. Save yourself frustration and save your life. Not just if you come from a financially unstable background. Emergencies happen. What money is spent on your college might be usefull in saving someones life in emergencies. 

Good luck students!