O.K. Narayanan, Accountant Member 1. The appeal is filed by the revenue. The Cross Objection is filed by the assessee. The appeal and the cross objection are directed against the order passed by the Commissioner (Appeals)-VI at Mumbai dated 11-1-2002. The relevant assessment year is 1992-93. They arise out of the assessment completed under Section 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 . 2. The original assessment in this case was completed under Section 143(3) on 31-3-1995. The assessee-company had invested money and units issued by Unit Trust of India (UTI) and owned by it with Citibank N.A. under a scheme known as Portfolio Management Scheme (PMS). In the said scheme, Citibank acted as the investment-facilitator of the assessee-company. In the original return filed by the assessee, it has offered an income of Rs. 17,19,22,744 as income from the said PMS Accounts. The assessee-company has also claimed a deduction of Rs. 56,93,55,216 by way of interest eligible for deduction under Section 36(l)(iii) . The interest expenditure related to the new units set up by the assessee, but prior to the commencement of their operations. 3. In the original scrutiny-assessment completed under Section 143(3) , the income offered by the assessee-company under PMS was accepted and the interest expenditure claimed by way of deduction was allowed. The said assessment was taken in first appeal on certain other grounds and finally the income was determined at Rs. 105,11,65,009. This income has been determined on the basis of the order passed by the Assessing Authority w.r.t. Section 250 of the Act on 25-6-1998. 4. Later on, in the course of assessment proceedings relating to the succeeding assessment year 1993-94, the assessing officer came across certain materials which might have bearing on the assessment of the impugned assessment year 1992-93. According to the Assessing Authority, these materials were availed from the details furnished by Citibank and also from examination/ cross examination of the officials of the assessee-company and the Citibank. On the basis of those materials collected in the course of assessment proceedings relating to the succeeding assessment year 1993-94, the assessing officer came to a conclusion that there was an income of more than Rs. 130 crores from the PMS Accounts for the assessment year 1992-93 which was not offered for taxation either by the assessee-company or by the Citibank. He accordingly came to a conclusion that the income earned out of PMS Accounts has been grossly understated: 5. In the light of the above scenario, the Assessing Authority initiated Income Escaping Assessment proceedings against the assessee-company for the impugned assessment year 1992-93. Notice under Section 148 was issued on 28-6-1996. The notice was challenged by the assessee-company before the Hon'ble High Court of Mumbai, both before Single Bench as well as Division Bench but ultimately dismissed by the Hon'ble Court. But, the Hon'ble court did not examine the merits of the case and retained the right of the assessee-company to agitate the entire matter in the appropriate statutory Fora. Thereafter, the Assessing Authority completed the Income Escaping Assessment in consequence to the notice issued under Section 148 . The assessing officer has worked out the income of the assessee from PMS Accounts at Rs. 143,93,60,151 as against the income accepted in the original assessment at Rs. 17,19,22,744. The assessing officer has also held that the interest income allowed in the original assessment was in fact of capital in nature and did not qualify for deduction for the assessment year 1992-93. Therefore, the said amount of Rs. 56,93,55,216 has also been added back to the income of the assessee-company. Thus the Income Escaping Assessment has been completed by the Assessing Authority on a total income of Rs. 288,26,72,270 through his or-der dated 14-6-2000. 6. The assessing officer has passed a detailed assessment order running to 38 pages including 4 Annexures A, B, C & D forming part of the assessment order. The computation of income from PMS is provided in paragraph 38 of the assessment order. It comprised of short-term capital gains and dividends and interest. 7. The Income Escaping Assessment was taken in first appeal. The first ground raised by the assessee before the Commissioner (Appeals) was against the legality of the re-opening of assessment. It was the case of the assessee before the Commissioner (Appeals) that the details of income and expenditure were furnished before the Assessing Authority in the course of original assessment itself and the reopening was made only for a change of opinion. On the basis of a detailed discussion from pages 2 to 18 of his order, the Commissioner (Appeals) held that issue of notice under Section 148 was justified at least at the time of initiation of the proceedings. Accordingly, the said legal ground was dismissed. 8. The second ground raised by the assessee before the Commissioner (Appeals) was that the assessing officer has erred in adding back the interest expenditurc of' Rs. 56,93,55,216. The ground was considered by the Commissioner (Appeals) in detail in pages 18 to 24 of his order. The assessing officer has added back the interest expenditure relying on various decisions including
 

Challapalli Sugars Ltd. v. CIT 
 

Madras Industrial Investment Corpn. Ltd. v. CIT 
 

Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. v. CIT 9. The assessing officer had also distinguished the decisions relied on by the assessee such as CIT v. Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. , CITv . Prithvi Insurance Co. Ltd. etc. The Commissioner (Appeals) after considering the various judgments, facts of the case and the reasoning given by the assessing officer, ultimately found that the sayne issue was decided by ITAT Mumbai 'A' Bench in assessee's own case for the assessment year 1993-94 in ITA No. 1523/Mum./1997. In fact, the urging factor for adding back the interest expenditure was that the order of the Commissioner (Appeals) on the very same issue for the assessment year 1993-94 was not accepted by the department and the matter was taken in appeal before the Tribunal. The Commissioner (Appeals) found that the Tribunal has confirmed the order of the Commissioner (Appeals) for the assessment year 1993-94 and the basic reason given by the assessing officer to make the add-back, no more existed. Therefore, following the order of the Tribunal, the Commissioner (Appeals) allowed the contention of the assessee and deleted the add back of the interest expenditure of Rs. 56,93,55,216. 10. The third ground raised by the assessee was that the substantive addition on the alleged excess income from PMS Accounts should have been made on Citibank and not on the assessee. This ground was dismissed by the Commissioner (Appeals). The fourth ground raised by the assessee was against the alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. The said ground also was apparently rejected by the Commissioner (Appeals). 11. The first ground raised by the assessee before the Commissioner (Appeals) related to the crucial issue involved in this appeal and relating to the alleged income of the assessee earned from PMS. The case of the assessee was that the assessing officer had no materials before him to work out an income of Rs. 143,93,60,151 from the PMS Accounts of Citibank as against the returned income of Rs. 17,19,22,744. This crucial ground has been considered by the Commissioner (Appeals) in an extensive manner in his order. The discussion on this issue has been made by the Commissioner (Appeals) in pages 29 to 108 of his order. The detailed arguments made by the assessee- company before the Commissioner (Appeals) were briefly the following: 12. The assessing officer has also placed his strong arguments before the Commissioner (Appeals). His contentions and submissions before the Commissioner (Appeals) are briefed below: 13. On going through the contentions and arguments of the assessee as well as the Assessing Authority, the Commissioner (Appeals) thought it fit to provide a further opportunity to the Assessing Authority as well as the assessee to produce further materialsand evidences if any, so that their contentions could be appreciated in a proper perspective. For that purpose, the Commissioner (Appeals) directed the Assessing Authority to file a remand report. He has also written letter to the assessee-company to submit any more material that the company might like to rely on. After considering the arguments, the contents of the remand report and the submissions of the assessee-company, the Commissioner (Appeals) framed 15 points/ questions, the answers to which would help to come to a proper finding on this crucial issue of income earned by the assessees from PMS Accounts. The conclusions and answers arrived at by the Commissioner (Appeals) against the points /questions framed by him are discussed in paragraphs 16.11 to 16.27 from pages 96 to 108 of his order. Those findings and conclusions arrived at by the Commissioner (Appeals) are as follows: 14. In the light of the above findings and conclusions, the Commissioner (Appeals) held that there are no materials or any other convincing reason to make an addition by way of short-term capital gains and dividends and interest to the returned income of the assessee-company with reference to the PMS accounts maintained with Citibank. The addition was accordingly deleted and relief was granted to the assessee. 15. In addition to the grounds discussed hitherto before, the assessee-company had also raised grounds No. 6,7 and 8 relating to classifying the income as short-term capital gains instead of income from other sources, relating to deduction available under Section 80M etc. These grounds have been dismissed by the Commissioner (Appeals) as infructuous as the main subject matter of the appeal, the addition itself being deleted. 16. The assessee has also raised another additional ground before the Commissioner (Appeals) on the ground that no income could be conceived for the impugned assessment year 1992-93, as there was a mandatory lock-inperiod of one year on the PMS account operated with Citibank. This ground also has been dismissed by the Commissioner (Appeals) as infructuous. 17. Another additional ground raised by the assessee before the Commissioner (Appeals) was regarding levy of interest under Section 234B . The Commissioner (Appeals) held that in view of the amended provisions of Section 234B , interest is to be charged on the assessed income and not on the returned income and on that reason, he dismissed this additional ground and it does not survive. 18. Now the revenue is highly aggrieved by the orders passed by the Commissioner (Appeals) giving relef to the assessee-company in respect of the income attributable to PM accounts with Citibank as well as with reference to the deduction of interest expenditure. The grounds raised by the revenue in this appeal are extracted below: 19. The grounds raised by the assessee in its cross objection are against the decisions of the Commissioner (Appeals) wherever he dismissed the grounds as well as the additional grounds for the reason that those grounds and addition ground were infructuous. 20. Shri U.K. Shukla, the learned Commissioner of Income-tax appeared for the revenue and argued the case at length. In addition to a comprehensive argument note, the learned Commissioner has placed before us elaborate paper books in two volumes. The Paper books contain the copies of relevant documents and papers examined and relied on by the Assessing Authority including the agreements that the assessee-company had entered into with Citibank and also the script-wise details of security transactions entered into by Citibank through the PMS accounts maintained by the assessee. 21. The learned Commissioner has taken great pains to explain the intricacies of this case as the facts related mainly to tailor made accounts maintained by banks and also because of the involvement of the accounts in security transactions. The relevant arguments advanced by the learned Commissioner may briefed as below: 22. The learned Commissioner further stated that there was a settlement dated 23-3-1993 between the assessee-company and the Citibank with reference to the PMS Accounts for a sum of Rs. 55.5 crores. On an examination of the assessment order for the assessment year 1993-94 passed in the case of the assessee- company, it is noticed that although there was substantial income in its PMS Account for the impugned assessment year 1992-93 to the tune of Rs. 143 crores, there was loss to the extent of Rs. 78.41 crores in the succeeding assessment year 1993-94. The working of the said loss has been made by the Assessing Authority in paragraph 5.7 of the assessment order for the assessment year 1993-94. The difference of income as computed by the Assessing Authority for the assessment year 1992-93 and loss for the assessment year 1993-94 works out to Rs. 65 crores approx. The Commissioner continued to state that although there is no working available on record as to how the figure of settlement of Rs. 55.5 crores had been arrived at by the assessce, but it is possible to hold that the settlement of Rs. 55.5 crores is the direct outcome of the said differential amount of Rs. 65 crores. This factual position clearly confirms the finding of the Assessing Authority that the assessee-company had earned a substantial income of about Rs. 143 crores out of its PMS accounts for the impugned assessment year as against Rs. 17 crores offered for taxation. 23. The learned Commissioner submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case as explained above, the order of the Commissioner (Appeals) on this point may be set aside and the addition made by the assessing officer may be restored. 24. The learned Commissioner of Income-tax further argued on the point ofthe interest expenditure of Rs. 56,93,55,216 and submitted that the order of the assessing officer on this point is self-explanatory and supported by cogent facts and therefore the Commissioner (Appeals) should not have allowed the expenditure as a deduction in computing the income of the assessee-company. 25. Shri J.D. Mistry, the learned Counsel appearing for the assessee argued the case again at length. His contentions are summarised as below: 26. Shri J.D. Mistry further argued that the assessee does not know whether somebody has made any additional income from the PMS Accounts operated by Citibank on behalf of the assessee-company. The asscssee-company is concerned about the income to be received by the assessee-company and the income actually received by the assessee-company. As far as the PMS Accounts supported by Unit Trust of India, the clear agreement was that the assessee would be getting additional return of 1 per cent. In respect of the remaining deposit accounts, the assessee-company would be getting a return higher than the bank rate. Apart from signing the formal Account Opening Forms, the assessee-company has never given any instructions or directions to the Citibank. 27. In these circumstances, it is nothing but arbitrary and whimsical to attribute any amount of additional income in the hands of the assessee-company by exonerating the Citibank whose activities have been highly indicated by the competent committees in their enquiry reports. The assessing officer has not gathered any materials on record to rebut the findings of those High Powered Committees. The assessing officer acted only on the submissions and explanations offered by the Citibank which always suited to their own interest. 28. The learned Counsel therefore submitted that the finding made by the Assessing Authority towards additional income from PMS Account is just imaginary and nothing else. He, therefore, submitted that the order of the Commissioner (Appeals) on this point is just, proper and lawful and therefore to be upheld by this Tribunal. 29. The learned Counsel further explained the point raised by the Commissioner of Income-tax on the settlement of accounts between the assessee-company and the Citibank. The Citibank entered into the settlement with assessee on 23-3-1993 and agreed to pay Rs. 55.55 crores as full and final settlement of all dues in PMS accounts of the assessee. However, the actual amount paid by the Citibank on the same date was Rs. 69.69 crores. The statement showing the calculation of return on amounts deposited with the Citibank in respect of PMS accounts No. 1 & 4, the assessee received 17 per cent which is consistent with the understanding it had with Citibank. The learned Counsel therefore submitted that the nexus tried to be established by the Commissioner between the settlement amount and the amount of Escaped income is only an unsupported hypothesis. 30. We heard both sides in detail and considered the paper books filed by both the sides. We have also carefully perused the orders of the assessing officer as well as the Commissioner (Appeals) and Annexures thereto. In the light of the above exercises, we proceed to examine the issue of addition relating to the income attributable to the PMS Accounts operated by Citibank. 31. The principles of interpretation of tax matters are drafted from the principles followed in civil matters. There seems to be no disagreement on this point. The rule of evidence to be applied, therefore, in tax adjudication is the preponderance of probabilities. This is an off-quoted principle in tax adjudication proceedings. When we go through the mass of materials placed before us and made up of contentions and arguments right from the assessing officer to the learned Commissioner of Income-tax who argued the case before us, there is an impulse to hold a view that the arguments advanced by the revenue are almost near to the line of probability. If we again scan through the forceful arguments of the learned Commissioner of Income-tax, there is an impression that the line of probability transforms into a line of reasonable evidence itself. 32. But it is not possible for any court to proceed, so unilaterally. It has to equally consider the challenging arguments advanced by the assessee. The task of the Tribunal would, therefore, be to analyse the materials relied on by both the sides and evaluate the relative merits and reliability. It is sometimes in the nature of a comparative exercise to measure the degree of reliability between the materials relied on by the revenue and the materials relied on by the assessee. This degree of reliability seems to be the crucial test in the present case in applying the principles of preponderance of probability. We think that this is the way to proceed to find a balance of convenience on which alone it might be possible for us to come to a fair decision. 33. The crucial issue to be decided here is the income that might have been generated from PMS Accounts operated by Citibank for and on behalf of the assess ee -company. The assessee-company has accounted and offered an income of Rs. 17.19 crores as income from the four PMS Accounts maintained by it with Citibank. The case of the assessee-company is that it had not received anything more than that. The basis of the said argument is that the investments were made by the assessee-company in the PMS accounts in the nature of deposit accounts for a guaranteed amount of return and not for enjoying the entire income that might have been generated in those accounts through the operations carried out by the Citibank. The case of the revenue is that the assessee-company has grossly understated its income from the four designated PMS Accounts and it had in fact received more then 130 crores by way of income from those PMS accounts. The basis of the proposition made out by the revenue is that the PMS accounts were operated by Citibank for and on behalf of the assessee-company and the entire profit arising out of the PMS accounts would be the income of the assessee-company and the assessee- company alone would be responsible for the losses incurred if any. For this reason, revenue has relied on the guidelines and circulars issued by the Reserve bank of India wherein it has been stated that the PMS accounts should be operated only at customers risk and the customers alone will be entitled for the profit and the customers alone would be responsible for the losses. The Reserve bank of India had directed the Commercial banks to deal in PMS account only for a specified amount of fees by way of remuneration. 34. The contention of the assessee-company is that in spite of the regulations and guidelines issued by the Reserve bank of India, the Citibank has not followed those regulations and guidelines. The Citibank has fluted all the directions of the Reserve bank of India. That is why Reserve bank of India has imposed penalty on Citibank. it is the case of the assessee-company that the true conduct of the Citibank in the whole scenario of the Management of PMS accounts has been observed by Janakiraman Committee appointed by the Reserve bank of India and also by Joint Parliamentary Committee. Both the committees have indicated Citibank for its lapses and manipulations and have made a definite finding that Citibank has not followed the norms of discipline prescribed for operating PMS accounts. 35. When we examine the issue in the light of the above nuances, we find that the materials relied on by the revenue mainly of almost comprised of the statements made by the executives of the Citibank. As pointed out by the Commissioner (Appeals), the assessing officer or the Citibank has not explained the means by which the additional income was transmitted to the assessee-company. There is no evidence on that crucial point. 36. It is true that the Janakiraman Committee and the Joint Parliamentary Committee have indicted the conduct of the Citibank as violative of the regulations and manipulative of funds management. The committees have categorically held that the Citibank has fiddled out funds from the PMS accounts to carry on its own business and operations in securities. The assessing officer himself states as the foundation of the reopening of the assessment that there was an income of more than Rs. 130 crorcs out of the four PMS accounts and the doubt that the income would have been either received by the assessee-company or by the Citibank. 37. The whole edifice of the case of the revenue is built on this contingent statement that the income would have been enjoyed either by the assessee-company or by the Citibank. 38. In such circumstances, the Citibank itself is in a fluid position. Therefore, obviously every statement given by the responsible executives of Citibank would be to protect its own self-interest and not for protecting the interest of the assessee or revenue or for that matter to bring out the true facts of the case. They may be justified in doing so because nobody would move against ones own self-interest. But in a judicial process, we can consider the statements of the executives of the Citibank only as selfserving evidences. They are interested witnesses. Therefore, the overwhelming support drawn by the Assessing Authority out of the statements and submissions of the Executives of the Citibank does not command the support of law. 39. Apart from the inadequacy of the materials relied on by the revenue, the assessee-company has advanced certain definite points of evidences to support its arguments. The first such argument is regarding the two certificates issued by Citibank itself stating that what has been disclosed by the assessee-company is the returns paid by the Citibank to the assessee-company against the PMS accounts. That certificates have not been so far controverted either by the assessing officer or by the Citibank. The second most important point is that the credit for the TDS against the interest and dividends credited in the PMS accounts have been claimed by Citibank and not by the assessee-company. Neither the Citibank nor the assessing officer has ever met this formidable objection raised by the assessee-company. 40. The most formidable objection raised by the assessee-company is that the assessing officer has not complied with the specific directions issued by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court. While disposing the writ proceedings before it, the Hon'ble Bombay High Court has directed the Citibank to produce the transactional documents of every deal so that the assessee could examine the nature and colour of every transaction passed through the PMS accounts. The Hon'ble High Court has specifically mentioned about the 'Deal Slip' which contains the primary deiails of every transaction. But the assessing officer has stated in the assessment order that the transactions were as old as nine years, relating to financial year 1991-92 and therefore it would not be possible for Citibank to produce all documents relating to each and every transaction. The assessing officer himself is bailing out the Citibank which is otherwise an equally coaccused in the present case which is evident from the doubt expressed by the assessing officer himself at the beginning that the additional income has been enjoyed either by the assessee-company or by the Citibank. instead of following the directions of the Hon'ble High Court, he has stated that he has used his discretion and did not call for further details. The deal slips, the soul of the evidence, were not made available to the assessee-company for verification. This itself has shaken the credibility of the entire recomputation of the profit allegedly to have been earned by the assessee-company from the PMS Accounts. 41. It is also to be seen as pointed out by the Commissioner (Appeals) that the assessing officer has not discussed anything about the documentary evidences availed from the Citibank to support the finding of the assessing officer that the alleged income was earned by the assessee-company. 42. In these facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the considered opinion that the balance of convenience is apparently tilting in favour of the assessee-company and therefore we have to agree with the Commissioner (Appeals) in holding that there is no evidence or materials to support the case of the revenue that the assessee-company had earned any income from the four PMS accounts operated through Citibank over and above what has been accounted and returned by it for taxation purpose. 43. Therefore, the principal ground raised by the revenue regarding the income addition is dismissed. 44. Next we will consider the ground regarding the deduction of interest payment. Similar interest claimed by the assessee-company by way of deduction for the succeeding assessment year 1993-94 was similarly allowed by the Commissioner (Appeals). The department contested the matter in second appeal before the Tribunal. The Tribunal after examining the factual aspects of the claim confirmed the view of the CTT(A) in its order in ITA No. 1523/Mum./1997 (ITAT Mumbai 'A' Bench). The disallowance has been made by the assessing officer for the impugned assessment year 1992-93 and for the assessment year 1993-94 on same premises. The Commissioner (Appeals) has allowed the contention of the assessee following the order of the Tribunal rendered for the assessment year 1993-94. The main grievance of the revenue also was that similar decision for the assessment year 1993-94 was not accepted by the department. Now the matter being settled by the Tribunal for the assessment year 1993-94, the Commissioner (Appeals) could not have taken any other view but to allow the contention of the assessee. We find no error in the order of the Commissioner (Appeals). Therefore, the second ground relating to deduction of interest expenditure is also dismissed. 45. Revenue fails in its appeal filed before us. 46. Next we have to consider the Cross Objection filed by the assessee. The cross objection relates to the various alternate grounds raised by the assessee before the Commissioner (Appeals) both on law and facts, but dismissed by the Commissioner (Appeals) as infructuous for the reason that the main question of addition has been decided in assessee's favour. As we have already confirmed the order of the Commissioner (Appeals) on the said point of addition, we have to state that the grounds raised by the assessee in this cross objection have become infructuous before the Tribunal also. 47. The assessee fails in its cross objection filed before us. 48. In result, this appeal filed by the revenue as well as the cross objection filed by the assessee are dismissed.