The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance has selected the subject ‘A Study On Virtual Digital Assets (VDAs) and the Way Forward’ for scrutiny during 2024-25. The Committee listed this as item number 3141 in the Lok Sabha Bulletin Part – II that was uploaded on August 14.

This move follows a group of Web3 and digital asset stakeholders submitting a set of recommendations to the Chairperson of the Standing Committee in late July, asking for an innovation-friendly regulation to achieve a $100 billion Web3 economy in 10 years. This group included the likes of Digital South Trust, Bharat Web3 Association, Hashtag Web3, BlockOn Ventures, KoinBX, and CoinDCX.

Sumit Gupta, Co-Founder of CoinDCX supported the Committee’s latest attempt in reviewing cryptocurrency with a post on X (formerly Twitter): “Happy to see that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance has selected Virtual Digital Assets (VDA) as a key topic to study further. This is a good positive development for the sector!”

Happy to see that the parliamentary standing committee on finance has selected Virtual Digital Assets (VDA) as a key topic to study further. This is a good positive development for the sector! pic.twitter.com/t9xR39Xul1

Neeraj Khandelwal, also Co-Founder of CoinDCX, echoed Gupta’s sentiment. He tweeted, “Good to see the parliamentary committee pick VDA as a topic for detailed study. Like we say in crypto: Slowly, then suddenly! Crypto folks can expect more positive developments in the next 12 months!”

Good to see the parliamentary committee pick VDA as a topic for detailed study. Like we say in crypto: Slowly, then suddenly! Crypto folks can expect more positive developments in the next 12 months! 🚀 https://t.co/qNZsQUQa54

Notably, CoinDCX was at the receiving end of a Rs 368 crore hack in July 2025. Gupta made the announcement about a “sophisticated security breach” that entirely drained an internal operational account used for liquidity provisioning. However, he assured customers that their funds were not impacted.

Hi everyone, At @CoinDCX , we have always believed in being transparent with our community, hence I am sharing this with you directly. Today, one of our internal operational accounts – used only for liquidity provisioning on a partner exchange – was compromised due to a… pic.twitter.com/L1kZhjKAxQ

It is important to note that VDA-related regulatory clarity is directly proportional to increased market confidence. The Standing Committee’s latest move comes as much-needed relief – especially for crypto platforms like CoinDCX – that potentially results in clearer policy frameworks and reduced uncertainties.

India could witness increased investment inflows into VDA assets like cryptocurrency and a boost in liquidity if the study indeed leads to an easing of restrictions.

The Standing Committee on Finance selecting VDAs as a subject for study comes in the wake of the Government recently admitting that no real-time tracking system exists to match tax returns with the data that cryptocurrency exchanges file.

Notably, the Government relies on post-facto analysis at the moment, comparing available information with what taxpayers report within their income tax returns (ITRs) to detect any mismatch.

Furthermore, the Minister of State (MoS) for Finance, Pankaj Chaudhary, divulged that the Ministry has made no estimate of the potential revenue loss stemming from under-reporting or misreporting of cryptocurrency transactions.

In this light, the Standing Committee’s decision to study VDAs more closely seems a rational and logical move that can help in improving regulatory oversight and reducing instances of cryptocurrency exchange hacks within the Indian context.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event