(PER : MILIND N. JADHAV, J.)

 Heard Mr. Bharat Raichandani a/w. Ms. Pragya
 Koolwal, learned counsel for the petitioner; and Mr. Pradeep
 Jetly, learned senior counsel a/w. Mr. Devesh Tripathi,
 learned counsel for the respondents. 2. By this petition filed under the provisions of Article
 226 of the Constitution of India, petitioner has sought to
 challenge the rejection of its applications filed under the
 Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (for short "MEIS")
 by the respondents on the ground of mis-declaration of
 intent by the petitioner and thereby depriving the petitioner
 benefit under the said scheme. 1 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

2.1. Petitioner has however prayed for the following
reliefs in the petition:- 3.1. Petitioner is a private limited company situated in
Santacruz Electronics Export Processing Zone (for short
"SEEPZ"), a Special Economic Zone in Mumbai and engaged
in the manufacture and export of electronic motors.
Petitioner is entitled to special fiscal provisions as envisaged
in the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005 (for short " SEZ Act ")
in respect of goods manufactured and exported by the
petitioner being eligible and notified products under the
MEIS. 2 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

3.2. Since 01.04.2015 petitioner has been exporting
electronic motors to notified markets and claiming benefit
under the MEIS in the manner prescribed under paragraph 3
of the Handbook of Procedure (HBP). For this purpose
petitioner has been filing applications online using its digital
signature on the Director General of Foreign Trade (for short
"DGFT") portal by filing the requisite details in the
appropriate form to claim reward under MEIS. The reward is
received in the form of duty credit scrips. 3.3. In the present case, the exports of petitioner are
made through SEEPZ i.e. the Non-EDI port. These Non-EDI
(manual) shipping bills are not transmitted electronically by
Customs Department to DGFT. Hence petitioner is required
to manually enter the data for all such shipping bills and file
MEIS applications separately on the DGFT portal in respect of
each shipping bill to claim reward under MEIS after
completion of export obligations. 3.4. Petitioner filed applications dated 09.03.2017 and
06.09.2017 on the DGFT portal as well as before the
regional authority to claim reward under MEIS against
various shipping bills. 3.5. By letters dated 31.08.2017 and 19.09.2017
respondent No.4 rejected petitioner's claim for seeking
reward (duty credit scrips) under MEIS, inter alia, on the
ground that petitioner had not stated its declaration of intent
i.e "We intend to claim rewards under Merchandise Exports
from India Scheme" on the shipping bills. 3 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

3.6. Petitioner states that similar applications filed by
the petitioner for the period 2015-16 and 2016-17 for
claiming reward under MEIS in respect of various shipping
bills have also been rejected on the ground of absence of
'declaration of intent' on the shipping bills. 3.7. Petitioner filed representation dated 17.10.2017
before respondent No.2 and submitted a list of shipping bills
on which benefit of MEIS was denied to the petitioner.
Petitioner asserted that it was entitled to the reward (duty
credit scrips) under MEIS and highlighted several difficulties
in claiming the rewards such as:- 3.8. By order dated 10.05.2018 respondent No. 4
rejected the petitioner's application for amending one such

 4 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

shipping bill No. 4013543 under the provisions of section 149 of the Customs Act, 1962. 3.9. Petitioner filed a second representation dated
16.10.2018 before respondent No.4 with respect to denial of
benefit under MEIS due to the difficulties faced by the
petitioner and sought leave to carry out amendment in the
shipping bills under the provisions of section 149 of the
Customs Act, 1962 (for short "the Customs Act "). 3.10. Petitioner preferred appeal before the
Commissioner of Customs (Appeals) to challenge the order
dated 10.05.2018. By order dated 12.02.2019,
Commissioner of Customs (Appeals) dismissed the
petitioner's appeal on the ground of jurisdiction, inter alia,
holding that the remedy for such kind of inadvertence was
not within the purview of the Customs Department under Section 149 of the Customs Act. 3.11. Petitioner filed a third representation dated
07.02.2019 before respondent No.2 highlighting the
difficulties faced while claiming reward under MEIS. 3.12. Again, petitioner filed application dated
28.05.2019 with the respondents to claim reward under MEIS
against various shipping bills. 3.13. Since there was no response petitioner filed a
fourth representation dated 10.07.2019 with the Export
Promotion Council of India highlighting the difficulties faced
by the petitioner in claiming benefit under MEIS in respect of
its shipping bills and denial of the same to the petitioner. 5 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

3.14. By letter dated 15.07.2019 respondent No.4
rejected the application dated 28.05.2019 seeking reward
(duty credit scrips) in respect of various shipping bills under
MEIS on the ground that the petitioner was not eligible to
claim the reward due to absence of declaration of intent on
the said shipping bills. 4. Respondents have filed reply affidavit denying the
claim and contentions of the petitioner. 5. Mr. Raichandani, learned counsel for the petitioner
submitted that the petitioner has fulfilled all requirements
required to claim benefit under MEIS as an exporter of
notified goods to the notified markets under the Foreign
Trade Policy 2015-2020 (for short "FTP"). He submitted that
there is no dispute in respect of this fact i.e fulfillment of the
preliminary requirement on behalf of the petitioner to claim
benefit under MEIS; however due to procedural infraction
and error on the part of the petitioner at the time of filing
application forms for seeking benefit under MEIS being the
declartion of intent was not stated or mentioned in the
application forms which has led to denial of benefit to the
petitioner. He submitted that due to a procedural and
inadvertently committed mistake of not affirmatively stating
"Y" (for Yes) in the declaration of intent column for claiming
reward under MEIS, petitioner has been denied the benefit.
He submitted that petitioner committed an inadvertent and
bonafide error while filing the application forms for claiming
benefit under Chapter 3 of FTP, though the petitioner was
entitled for the benefit having completed its export
obligations. 6 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

5.1. He submitted that clause 3.14 of the FTP
prescribes the procedure for declaration of intent of EDI and
Non-EDI shipping bills for claiming reward under MEIS; in
doing so in cases where exports are made through EDI port,
the exporter is required to mark / tick "Y" (for Yes) in the
reward column of shipping bills against each item for
claiming reward under the scheme; whereas in cases where
exports are made through Non-EDI port, the exporter is
required to specifically declare on the shipping bills "We
intend to claim reward under MEIS" in order to claim rewards
under MEIS. He submitted that in the present case, due to
an inadvertent mistake on the part of the petitioner, instead
of marking "Y" (for Yes) in the reward column of the shipping
bills, petitioner had marked "N" (for No) thereby leading to
denial of benefit to the petitioner. This mistake on the part
of the petitioner has led to denial of benefit due to the
petitioner. He submitted that in respect of some shipping
bills though the benefit is not claimed by the petitioner, yet it
is reflected in the system portal of the DGFT that MEIS
benefit towards the said shipping bills have already been
claimed; in respect of some shipping bills though the
petitioner has exclusively downloaded the E-BRC form from
the website, however, while availing MEIS scheme, petitioner
is unable to upload the application as the portal has
displayed an error "E-BRC not found". 5.2. Thus, from the above, there has been denial of
MEIS reward due to the petitioner as under:- (ii) In respect of shipping bills where benefit
 though not claimed by the petitioner, the
 DGFT portal is reflecting that such benefit
 has already been claimed; (iii) In respect of shipping bills where the
 petitioner has successfully downloaded the
 E-BRC form, but while availing MEIS benefit
 the petitioner is unable to upload the
 application form due to an error message. 5.3. He submitted that any error / failure of the
aforementioned nature, cannot be a ground to deny benefit
to the petitioner under MEIS scheme to which the petitioner
is otherwise entitled considering that admittedly excisable
goods have been exported by the petitioner and the benefits
of MEIS under Chapter 3 of FTP 2015-2020 are therefore
available to the exporter exporting notified goods / products
with ITC(HS) code to notified markets; that reward under
MEIS in the form of duty credit scrips are offered to mitigate
the effect of double taxation and to allow the Indian exporter
/ service provider / exporter to become internationally
competitive; that due to system generated issues as well as
inadvertent and bonafide mistake on the part of the
petitioner it has been deprived of the benefit under MEIS
scheme. 5.4. He has referred to and relied upon the following
cases in support of the proposition that a party can be

 8 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

allowed to manually carry out corrections in the shipping bills
in the case of Non-EDI bills and the respondents can issue
the necessary No-Objection Certificate to such party in the
case of EDI bills for seeking the benefit under the scheme if
such party has inadvertently committed a mistake while
filing and uploading the shipping bills on the DGFT portal and
not claimed MEIS benefit :- 6. PER CONTRA, Mr. Jetly, learned senior counsel
appearing for the respondents has at the outset drawn our
attention to the reliefs claimed by the petitioner in the prayer
clause i.e paragraph 14 of the petition. He submitted that
the reliefs prayed for by the petitioner are not specific but
vague and insufficient and as such, the same cannot be
granted. 6.1. He has referred to the affidavit in reply dated
29.01.2020 filed on behalf of respondent Nos. 1 and 4
wherein it is contended that the petitioner's application for
claiming reward under MEIS was declined due to absence of
1 2019(365) E.L.T. 669 (Mad.)
2 2019-TIOL-1259-SC-MAD-CUS
3 2018-TIOL-94-SC-MAD-CUS
4 2019-TIOL-3536-CESTAT-BANG
5 2019-TIOL-2809-HC-KERALA-CUS

 9 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

declaration of intent to claim MEIS benefit in the respective
shipping bills; while applying online for claiming MEIS benefit
petitioner chose the Non-EDI ports of export being SEZ and
marked "N" (for No) in the column of declaration of intent /
reward instead of "Y" (for Yes) and failed to make the
declaration of intent in the export promotion copies of
shipping bills submitted by it. 6.2. He has referred to clauses (g) and (h) of section
3 .01 of Chapter 3 relating to Exports from India Schemes
pertaining to MEIS in the Handbook of Procedure (HOP) which
reads thus:- Rewards will be granted by RAs without the need for
 cross verifying EDI Shipping Bill details. (h) RA shall process the electronically acknowledged files
 and scrip shall be issued after due scrutiny of electronic
 documents. After scrutiny, if the officer has reasonable
 suspicion of wrong classification / mis-declaration in any
 application, in such cases officer may, after approval of
 his senior officer / Head of the Office, seek physical
 documents for scrutiny. On receipt of such documents,
 the officer must decide the claim within 7 working days.
 In cases, where the claim is rejected, a speaking order
 shall be issued." 6.3. With reference to the above clauses, he has
submitted that due to non-adherence to the procedural
requirement envisaged under the above provisions,
petitioner has been denied the benefit. 6.4. He has referred to the affidavit in reply dated
27.02.2020 filed on behalf of respondent Nos. 2 and 3 to

 10 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

contend that there has been a lapse on the part of the
petitioner in not following the mandatory procedural
requirement which was available in the public domain. He
submitted that clause 3.14 of the Foreign Trade Policy (2015- 20) states that no person can claim an authorization as a
right and DGFT or Regional Authority shall have power to
refuse to grant or renew the same in accordance with the
provisions of FT (D&R) Act, Rules made thereunder and FTP;
in line with the procedural eligibility condition petitioner was
not eligible for MEIS benefit as declaration of intent on
shipping bills is not merely a procedural requirement but a
substantive requirement; petitioner is in the business of
import and export since a long time and the provisions for
declaration of intent on the shipping bills was available in the
public domain since 01.04.2015; petitioner cannot claim
ignorance of such an essential policy which is substantive in
nature. Therefore, considering the procedural requirement of
the scheme the present petition may be rejected. 7. Mr. Raichandani in his rejoinder has referred to a
decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Mangalore
Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd Vs. Deputy Commissioner 6,
more specifically to paragraph No. 11 to contend that
provisions of a statute which are of substantive character are
required to be distinguished from those which are merely
procedural and technical in nature. He asserted that once
the petitioner had fulfilled the eligibility conditions for
reward, even if there was a technical or procedural infraction
while claiming the reward, the same was required to be
disregarded. Paragraph 11 of the judgment reads thus:- 5(2)(a)(ii) of the Bengal Finance (Sales-tax) Act, 1941, could be
established by evidence aliunde. The court said that the
intention of the Legislature was to grant exemption only upon
the satisfaction of the substantive condition of the provision and
the condition in the proviso was held to be of substance
embodying considerations of policy. Shri Narasimhamurthy
would say the position in the present case was no different. He
says that the notification of 11th August, 1975 was statutory in
character and the condition as to 'prior-permission' for
adjustment stipulated therein must also be held to be statutory.
Such a condition must, says counsel, be equated with the
requirement of production of the declaration form in Kedarnath's
case and thus understood the same consequences should
ensue for the non-compliance. Shri Narasimhamurthy says that
there was no way out of this situation and no adjustment was
permissible, whatever be the other remedies of the appellant.
There is a fallacy in the emphasis of this argument. The
consequence which Shri Narasimhamurthy suggests should
flow from the non-compliance would, indeed, be the result if the
condition was a substantive one and one fundamental to the
policy underlying the exemption. Its stringency and mandatory
nature must be justified by the purpose intended to be served.
The mere fact that it is statutory does not matter one way or the
other. There are conditions and conditions. Some may be
substantive, mandatory and based on considerations of policy
and some others may merely belong to the area of procedure. It
will be erroneous to attach equal importance to the non-
observance of all conditions irrespective of the purposes they
were intended to serve. In Kedarnath's case itself this Court pointed out that the
stringency of the provisions and the mandatory character
imparted to them were matters of important policy. The Court
observed: (Emphasis supplied)

 Such is not the scope or intendment of the provisions concerned
 here. The main exemption is under the 1969 notification. The
 subsequent notification which contain condition of prior-permission
 clearly envisages a procedure to give effect to the exemption. A
 distinction between the provisions of statute which are of substantive
 character and were built-in with certain specific objectives of policy
 on the one hand and those which are merely procedural and
 technical in their nature on the other must be kept clearly
 distinguished. What we have here is a pure technicality. Clause 3 of
 the notification leaves no discretion to the Deputy Commissioner to
 refuse the permission if the conditions are satisfied. The words are
 that he "will grant". There is no dispute that appellant had satisfied
 these conditions. Yet the permission was withheld--not for any valid
 and substantial reason but owing to certain extraneous things
 concerning some inter-departmental issues. Appellant had nothing
 to do with those issues. Appellant is now told "we are sorry. We
 should have given you the permission. But now that the period is
 over, nothing can be done". The answer to this is in the words of
 Lord Denning: "Now I know that a public authority can not be
 estopped from doing its public duty, but I do think it can be estopped
 from relying on a technicality and this is a technicality" (See Wells v.
 Minister of Housing and Local Government, [1967] 1 WLR 1000 at
 1007). Fancis Bennion in his "Statutory Interpretation", 1984 edition, says
 at page 683: 7.1. He submitted that in the above case, appellant
had also satisfied all conditions, yet permission was withheld
not for any valid or substantial reason but owing to certain
extraneous things concerning some inter-departmental
issues. He submitted that there is a distinction with respect
to a condition which is a substantive one and one which is
procedural in nature; its stringency and mandatory nature
must be justified by the purpose intended to be served; that
if the intent of the legislature is to grant benefit under the
MEIS scheme on fulfillment of export obligations and if the
petitioner had fulfilled the eligibility criteria and was indeed

 13 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

eligible for the benefit, then the inadvertent mistake
committed by the petitioner could not be held against the
petitioner for denial of such benefit; the intention of the
legislature under the scheme is to grant reward / benefit;
and therefore any procedural irregularity or mistake
committed by the petitioner cannot be held against the
petitioner for denial of benefit. 8. Submissions made by the respective counsel have
received the due consideration of the Court. Materials on
record have also been perused. 9. Before we proceed to adjudicate the issue it would
be beneficial to refer to the Foreign Trade Policy (01.04.2015
to 31.03.2020) [updated as on 05.12.2017] with which we
are concerned with in the present case. FTP-2015-20 was
launched on 01.04.2015 and introduced a slew of measures
by providing a framework for increasing exports of goods and
services, generation of employment and increasing value
addition, in keeping with the 'Make in India' vision. The
Policy was far reaching in nature and incorporated various
export friendly innovations and simplifications. These
included simplifications & merger of reward schemes,
introducing new schemes for promotion of merchandise and
services exports, incentivising e-commerce exports,
encouraging procurement of capital goods from indigenous
manufactures under the EPCG scheme etc.

9.1. Chapter 3 relates to Exports from India Schemes.
In so far as MEIS is concerned, the relevant provisions are
contained in clauses 3.00 to 3.06 which read thus: 3.02 Nature of Rewards
 Duty Credit Scrips shall be granted as rewards under MEIS and
 SEIS. The Duty Credit Scrips and goods imported / domestically
 procured against them shall be freely transferable. The Duty
 Credit Scrips can be used for : Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS)

3.03 Objective
 Objective of the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme
 (MEIS) is to promote the manufacture and export of notified
 goods/ products. 3.04 Entitlement under MEIS

 Exports of notified goods/products with ITC[HS] code, to notified
 markets as listed in Appendix 3B, shall be rewarded under
 MEIS. Appendix 3B also lists the rate(s) of rewards on various
 notified products [ITC (HS) code wise]. The basis of calculation
 of reward would be on realised FOB value of exports in free
 foreign exchange, or on FOB value of exports as given in the
 Shipping Bills in freely convertible foreign currencies, whichever
 is less, unless otherwise specified. 3.05 Entitlement under MEIS for export of goods through
 Courier or Foreign Post Offices

 Export of goods through courier or foreign post offices as

 15 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

 notified in Appendix 3C, of FOB value upto Rs. 5,00,000 per
 consignment shall be entitled for rewards under MEIS. If the
 value of exports is more than Rs. 5,00,000 per consignment
 then MEIS reward would be calculated on the basis of FOB
 value of Rs. 5,00,0000 only. 3.06 Ineligible categories under MEIS
 The following exports categories /sectors shall be ineligible for
 Duty Credit Scrip entitlement under MEIS (i) Supplies made from DTA units to SEZ units (ii) Export of imported goods covered under paragraph
 2.46 of
 FTP; (iii) Exports through trans-shipment, meaning thereby
 exports that are originating in third country but trans-
 shipped through India; 9.2. Public Notice No. 47/2015-20 dated 08.12.2015
issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade sets out
the procedure for claiming reward under MEIS and is relevant
for the present case and reads thus:- (b) Where Shipping Bills for exports from 01.06.2015 to 30.9.2015
 have been otherwise transmitted to DGFT {being Advance
 Authorisation (AA) / Export Promotion Capital
 Goods(EPCG)/Duty Free Import Authorisation (DFIA) scheme
 Shipping Bills}but 'N' has been declared in the 'Reward item'
 field, the exporter shall submit EP copy of shipping bills and
 reward may be issued by concerned RA after confirming
 declaration of intent on physical EP copy of the shipping bills as
 provided in Para 3.14 of HBP 2015-20. Effect of the Public Notice : Such declaration shall be required even for export shipments
under any of the schemes of Chapter 4 (including drawback),
Chapter 5 or Chapter 6 of FTP. Effect of this Public Notice: The procedure for declaration of
intent in Paragraph 3.14(a) of the Handbook of Procedures

 18 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

 2015-20 for EDI is simplified. The marking of tick in pursuance
 of the earlier Public Notice No. 47, dated 8th December
 2015shall be treated as declaration of intent in case of EDI
 shipping bills. The marking of tick in the appropriate tick boxes
 are mandatory in EDI shipping bills. (Anup Wadhawan )
 Director General of Foreign Trade
 E-mail: [email protected] [Issued from File No. 01/61/180/179/AM16/PC3/Pt]" 19 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

claimed in the said petitions before the High Courts of Kerala
and Madras were for seeking a direction to the DGFT to
amend the shipping bills filed by the petitioners to enable
the petitioners to avail benefit under the scheme. In the said
cases it was the specific contention of the respondent i.e
DGFT that there can be no amendment in the shipping bills
since the entire procedure was followed by the system
portal. However, in those cases it was conceded by the
respondents that they would issue No-Objection Certificate to
the aggrieved petitioners to enable them to make
appropriate applications for availing the benefits under the
scheme. The Courts held that in the event of such No-
Objection Certificate being issued to the writ petitioners,
they would thereafter apply for seeking the benefit under the
scheme and the respondents shall consider such claim of the
petitioners and pass appropriate orders expeditiously. 12. We find that the facts in the present case are
identical to the facts of Pasha International (supra) and M/s. Greenglobe Exports India Pvt Ltd (supra) decided by the
Madras High Court and see no reason as to why the
petitioner herein should not be extended the benefit under
MEIS considering that the only lapse on the part of the
petitioner was that it had inadvertently mentioned in the
reward column "N" (for No) instead of "Y" (for Yes). This is a
procedural defect and is curable considering the
fundamental objective of the scheme under Chapter 3 of the
FTP 2015-20. The basic objective of the Exports from India
Schemes is to provide reward to the exporters and to
promote manufacture and export of notified goods /
products to notified markets. Once this is done, the party is

 20 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

entitled and eligible to claim its reward. For claiming the
reward, procedure as envisaged under the policy, handbook
of procedure (HOP), rules and various public notices like
public notice No. 47/2015-20 dated 08.12.2015 and public
notice No. 9/2015-20 dated 16.05.2016 are required to be
complied with. In the instant case, while doing so, petitioner
had inadvertently committed an error while filing up the
claim form on the DGFT portal and entered its declaration of
intent as "N" (for No) instead of "Y" (for Yes) resulting in
rejection of petitioner's claim for reward under MEIS. Except
for this inadvertent mistake, petitioner is otherwise eligible
and entitled to the reward under MEIS. In our considered
opinion, such a procedural mistake on the part of petitioner
should not deprive the petitioner from the beneift of the
reward under MEIS. We note that a similar situation was in
fact considered by the respondents in respect of shipping
bills for the period 01.04.2015 to 31.05.2015 at the time of
inception of the FTP, when exporters had inadvertently
marked "N" in the "reward item box" and wished to seek
MEIS benefit. Public Notice 47/2015-20 dated 08.12.2015
was issued by the DGFT to which we have referred to
hereinabove to give the benefit of MEIS reward in such
cases. 13. Though we are not happy with the manner in
which the reliefs [prayer clauses (a) and (b)] in paragraph
No. 14 have been drafted in the present petition, inter alia,
seeking directions to the respondents to guide the petitioner
by communicating the exact modification required and in
the ordinary course would have declined the relief; however
looking into the facts and circumstances of the present case

 21 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc

coupled with the inherent objective of the Exports from India
Scheme, we have considered the petitioner's case. The
objective of the MEIS scheme is to provide rewards to
exporters to offest infrastructural inefficiencies and
associated costs. In other words, the objective of
Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) is to promote
manufacture and export of notified goods / products to
notified markets and once this is done, such exporter is
required to be rewarded by duty credit scrips which can be
utilized by the exporter. There is no ambiguity or doubt that
the petitioner has not exported the goods; petitioner in fact
has carried out its export obligations fully and is therefore
eligible for the reward under MEIS; this has been accepted by
the respondents also. However, due to inadvertence and
erroneous mistake committed by the petitioner, it has been
denied the incentive. 14. Therefore, on a thorough consideration of the
matter, we hold that the petitioner is entitled to the reward
under MEIS in respect of its shipping bills wherein exports of
notified goods / products with ITC(HS) code to the notified
markets have been carried out by the petitioner under the
FTP 2015-20. 15. In view of the above discussion, we pass the
following orders:- issued by respondent No. 4 rejecting the
 applications for reward / benefit under MEIS
 to the petitioner are quashed and set aside; 22 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc (ii) Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 are directed to
 issue no-objection certificate (NOC) to the
 petitioner in respect of EDI online shipping
 bills which could not be amended to enable
 the petitioner to claim the reward under
 MEIS. Said NOC shall be issued within a
 period of four weeks from the date of receipt
 of a copy of the instant order; (iii) Petitioner shall thereafter file a fresh
 application in respect of its shipping bills i.e
 EDI-Online and Non-EDI shipping bills to
 claim MEIS reward with all documentary
 evidence with the respondents within a
 period of two weeks from the date of receipt
 of the NOC; (iv) Respondents shall consider the fresh
 applications filed by the petitioner for
 seeking MEIS benefit afresh in accordance
 with law and dispose of the same within a
 period of 8 weeks from the date of filing of
 fresh application by the petitioner; (v) Petitioner / its authorized representative
 shall be granted an opportunity of personal
 hearing before a decision is taken on the
 petitioner's applications seeking benefit /
 reward under MEIS in respect of its shipping
 bills under FTP-2015-20. 23 of 24
 oswp.no.2532.19.doc 16. Writ petition is accordingly disposed of in the
 above terms. However, there shall be no orders as to cost. [ MILIND N. JADHAV, J. ] [ UJJAL BHUYAN, J. ]

 Digitally
 signed by
Ravindra Ravindra M.
 Amberkar
M. Date: