1. By filing instant applications under Section 482
 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023
 (for short "BNSS"), the applicant has prayed for
 anticipatory bail in the event of arrest in
 connection with the FIR being C.R. No.
 11213016250314/2025 registered with Gondal Taluka
 Police Station for the alleged offences as
 mentioned in the FIR. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined 2. Heard learned advocate, Mr. Manish Patel for the
 applicant, learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. Hardik
 Dave assisted by learned advocate, Ms. Jyoti Bhatt
 for the respondent - State of Gujarat and learned
 advocate, Mr. Virat Popat with learned advocate,
 Mr. Sumit Sikarwar for original complainant. 3. Learned advocate, Mr. Manish Patel has referred to
 the FIR and submitted that the so-called
 unfortunate incident has occurred on 05.05.2025
 and on the very same day, FIR has been lodged
 against total 4 accused persons, wherein the
 applicant is shown as accused no.2. He submitted
 that the said FIR has been lodged by the brother
 of the deceased inter alia alleging that the
 deceased was found in the farm in hanging
 condition and from his custody, suicide note is
 recovered by the concerned Investigating Officer
 mentioning the name of the present applicant,
 therefore on the strength of it, the present
 applicant is arraigned as accused. He submitted
 that in fact, reason behind implicating the
 applicant in the alleged commission of crime is
 that there was past animosity between the brother
 of the complainant and the father of the applicant
 because of election process, for which, FIR was
 lodged by the deceased against the accused persons
 and thus, there was grudge against the deceased by
 the accused persons and second one is that in the
 suicide note purportedly signed by the deceased,
 the applicant's name is specifically mentioned but Page 2 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 except above two aspects, there is nothing
 available on record, which connected the applicant
 with the commission of crime. 4. Learned advocate, Mr. Manish Patel, referring to
 the allegations and accusation leveled in the FIR,
 submitted that it is alleged that a conspiracy has
 been hatched by the accused in connivance with
 each other with a sole intent to frame the
 deceased in a false offence and as a part of said
 conspiracy, FIR has been registered against him
 and, thereafter, the said news was publicized at a
 large scale, due to which, the deceased went into
 depress state of mind, which ultimately leads him
 to commit suicide. He, however, submitted that
 after registration of the FIR, the investigation
 was put into motion and the concerned
 Investigating Officer arrested 5 accused persons
 including one juvenile accused, who were
 subsequently chargesheeted before the competent
 court and at the time of filing chargesheet
 against those arrested accused, the applicant is
 shown as absconding accused. He referred to the
 chargesheet papers and submitted that except the
 suicide note, there is not a single evidence to
 suggest the involvement of the applicant to aid
 and instigate the deceased to commit suicide and
 thus, the applicant is not directly or indirectly
 connected and/or associated with the alleged
 commission of crime. He further submitted that in
 fact, the applicant had never come in contact with Page 3 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 the deceased and the role attributed to other co-
 accused is quite different and distinct and the
 documents collected by the concerned Investigating
 Officer do not connect the link between the
 applicant and other co-accused. He submitted that
 considering the allegations leveled against the
 applicant, custodial interrogation at this stage
 is not necessary and he will keep himself
 available during the course of investigation,
 trial also and will not flee from justice. He on
 instructions submitted that he is ready and
 willing to abide by all the conditions including
 imposition of conditions while releasing the
 applicant on anticipatory bail. It is, therefore
 urged that considering the above facts, the
 applicants may be granted anticipatory bail. 5. Learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. Hardik Dave
 appearing on behalf of the respondent - State has
 opposed grant of anticipatory bail looking to the
 nature and gravity of the offence. He submitted
 that name and specific role is clearly spelt out
 in the body of the FIR. He submitted that in fact,
 there was strong motive on the part of the
 applicant to take revenge against the deceased as
 there was inimical terms due to past animosity
 between the parties. He submitted that in fact in
 the year 2020, on account of the election process,
 the disputes were cropped up between the parties,
 which resulted into filing of an FIR by the
 deceased. He further submitted that not only that, Page 4 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 the father of the applicant was convicted in an
 offence of murder, wherein the father of the
 applicant was granted remission by the Government,
 however, the said decision was challenged by the
 deceased by filing appropriate application before
 the Secretary, Home Department, however, the said
 application is still pending for adjudication, due
 to which, the applicant and other accused were
 keeping grudge against him because of initiation
 of proceeding for cancellation of remission. He
 further submitted that however the grandson of
 erstwhile MLA, Popat Sorathiya murdered by the
 applicant's father had preferred petition before
 this Hon'ble Court for cancellation of remission
 granted to the father of the applicant and this
 Hon'ble Court allowed the said petition and
 cancelled the remission granted to him, against
 which, SLP had been preferred, which has been
 recently dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 and thus, the order passed by this Hon'ble Court
 cancelling the remission has been confirmed by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court. He, however, submitted that
 the accused were having grudge against the
 deceased as he had initiated action for
 cancellation of the remission granted to the
 father of the applicant and registered FIR at
 earlier point of time, therefore, keeping grudge
 against the said fact, they have hatched a
 criminal conspiracy to take revenge against the
 deceased and as a part of conspiracy, a well Page 5 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 designed sinister plan has been orchestrated by
 all the accused persons in connivance with each
 other and, thereafter under the pretext of
 involving the deceased in a false offence, the
 deceased would be pressurized to withdraw the
 proceedings instituted against them and thus,
 there was strong motive on the part of the
 applicant to aid, abet and instigate the deceased
 to commit suicide, which they have executed
 successfully. 6. Learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. Hardik Dave
 submitted that the incident has occurred on
 05.05.2025 and on the very same day, FIR has been
 lodged and pursuant thereto, the investigation was
 put into motion and during the course of
 investigation, the concerned Investigating Officer
 has collected ample evidence and material
 connecting the present applicant with the
 commission of crime. He submitted that however
 applicant is evading his arrest at the hands of
 the concerned IO, therefore, an application under Section 70 of the CrPC for issuance of warrant
 against the applicant was moved, however as it was
 not in consonance with the provision of law as
 laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the said
 application was not entertained by the concerned
 court. He, however under the instructions,
 submitted that in fact, the concerned
 Investigating Officer is in process to file a
 fresh application with proper wording as per the Page 6 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 applicable provision of law and thus the concerned
 Investigating Officer is in process of securing
 the presence of the applicant for the purpose of
 his custodial interrogation, which is badly needed
 in the present case for further investigation qua
 the applicant. 7. Learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. Hardik Dave further
 submitted that as stated above, during the course
 of investigation, the concerned Investigating
 Officer has seized suicide note purported signed
 by the deceased and after its seizure, it was sent
 to FSL for the purpose of seeking opinion of
 handwriting expert, which has been received and
 the said report clearly goes on to show that the
 handwriting found on the suicide note are matching
 with the handwriting of the deceased. He, however,
 submitted that in fact, there are total 4 pages of
 the suicide note, out of which, handwriting upon 3
 pages are matching, whereas on 1 page, the
 handwriting is not matching, therefore, the said
 document is treated as disputed document. He
 further submitted that so far as fourth page of
 the suicide note mismatching with the handwriting
 of the deceased is concerned, the investigation
 qua that is also going on. He referred to the
 contents of the suicide note and submitted that
 specific name and role of the applicant is clearly
 spelt out from the said suicide note and thus
 involvement of the applicant is established. He
 further submitted that so far as the conspiracy is Page 7 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 concerned, during the course of investigation,
 involvement of two advocates, who are practicing
 in the District Court, has been found out,
 therefore, they were arrested and subsequently
 released on bail by the concerned court. He
 submitted that it is the specific case of the
 prosecution that with a sole intent to frame the
 deceased in false case under the provision of the
 POCSO, all the accused persons had hatched
 conspiracy and a well designed plan has been
 orchestrated by the accused and as a part of said
 conspiracy, they have acted upon by arranging
 honey trap and accordingly one minor girl was
 engaged to go with the deceased and develop
 physical relations with the deceased and after the
 said act, the said lady reached to the hospital
 for treatment, where two accused, who are advocate
 by profession, reached there and, thereafter, the
 said lady had given bite about the involvement of
 the deceased and then, as a part of their
 conspiracy, they called media and publicized the
 said news at a large scale and, thereafter on the
 very next day, the deceased had committed suicide
 and thus, the active involvement of the applicant
 as well as other accused is clearly found out. 8. Learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. Dave further
 submitted that so far as the accused, Rahim Baloch
 is concerned, the said accused was in constant
 touch with one Pooja Rajgor (the accused no.4) and
 the said fact is fortified from the CDR collected Page 8 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 by the Investigating Officer during the course of
 investigation and thus it is clear that all the
 accused are closely connected and associated with
 each other at the time of commission of crime. He
 submitted that in fact, the said accused, Rahim
 Baloch is a driver of one Attaullakhan and the
 said work was entrusted to said Rahim Baloch by
 the said Attaullakhan and in relation to this, the
 present applicant had made number of phone calls
 to the said Attaullahkhan and thus, it is evident
 that the applicant was in live contact with the
 said Attaullahkhan, who is not yet arrested. He,
 therefore, submitted that to connect the applicant
 with the commission of crime, there are CDR
 collected by the IO between the applicant and the
 said Attaullahkhan and thus, there are ample
 evidence available on record, which connect the
 applicant with the commission of crime. It is,
 therefore, urged that considering the above facts,
 the present applications may be rejected as there
 is prima facie case made out against the applicant
 and the custodial interrogation of the applicant
 is required. 9. Learned advocate, Mr. Virat Popat appearing for
 the original complainant has also vehemently
 opposed the present application and submitted that
 he is adopting the arguments canvassed by learned
 Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent -
 accused as almost all arguments have been covered.
 He, however, submitted that involvement of the Page 9 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 applicant in connivance with other accused in the
 commission of crime is clearly spelt out from the
 chargesheet papers. He further submitted that
 during the course of investigation, the statements
 of number of witnesses have been record, which
 clearly goes on to show the involvement of the
 applicant in the commission of crime. He further
 submitted that it was just because of the act and
 conduct of all the accused persons, the deceased
 had committed suicide and the said fact is
 supported by the investigation papers. 10. Learned advocate, Mr. Popat further submitted that
 during the course of investigation, the statements
 of number of witnesses have been recorded, which
 are part and parcel of the chargesheet papers and
 if the Hon'ble Court would make cursory glance
 upon the contents of the statement of one Rinal,
 in that event, it is found out that she has stated
 in a very categorical terms that she was
 approached by the co-accused with a sole intent to
 frame the deceased, however as she was not ready
 and agreeable to support them, the accused persons
 have taken help of one minor girl by sending her
 to the deceased so that provision of POCSO Act can
 be invoked and in their attempt, they have
 succeeded. It is, therefore, urged that
 considering the facts of the case and the
 seriousness of the offences, discretion may not be
 exercised in favour of the applicant and the
 present application may be rejected. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined 11. Having heard the learned advocates appearing for
 the parties and perusing the investigation papers,
 it is equally incumbent upon the Court to exercise
 its discretion judiciously, cautiously and
 strictly in compliance with the basic principles
 laid down in a plethora of decisions of the
 Hon'ble Apex Court on the point. It is well
 settled that, among other circumstances, the
 factors to be borne in mind while considering an
 application for bail are (i) the nature and
 gravity of the accusation; (ii) the antecedents of
 the applicants including the fact as to whether he
 has previously undergone imprisonment on
 conviction by a Court in respect of any cognizable
 offence; (iii) the possibility of the applicants
 to flee from justice; and (iv) where the
 accusation has been made with the object of
 injuring or humiliating the applicants by having
 him so arrested. Though at the stage of granting
 bail an elaborate examination of evidence and
 detailed reasons touching the merit of the case,
 which may prejudice the accused, should be
 avoided. 12. It is required to be noted that normal procedure
 prescribed for curtailing the right to life &
 liberty, is that the investigating officer can
 arrest the accused even without warrant. No doubt
 this Court has extraordinary power to protect an
 innocent person. However, this power has to be
 exercised by the Courts with due circumspection. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined 13. It is well settled that an application preferred
 for anticipatory bail is an exceptional remedy to
 be granted in exception cases. The parameters and
 considerations governing the grant of anticipatory
 bail have been explained by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in number of cases. At this stage, I would
 like to rely upon the law laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of (i) State Rep. by the
 CBI V/s Anil Sharma reported in 1997 (7) SCC 187, (ii) Adri Dharan Das V/s State of W.B. reported in
 2005 (4) SCC 303 (iii) P. Chidambaram V/s
 Directorate of Enforcement reported in AIR 2019 SC
 4198, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held
 held as follows: Having regard to nature of allegations
 and stage of investigations, held
 investigating agency must be given sufficient
 freedom in process of investigation.
 Appellant not entitled to anticipatory bail
 as the same would hamper the investigation". 14. In case of Pratibha Manchanda and another Vs.
 State of Haryana and another reported in (2023) 8
 SCC 181, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Paragraph
 No.21, observed as under:- 15. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as
 this application has been preferred under the
 provisions of Section 482 of the Bharatiya Nagarik
 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of anticipatory
 bail, I court would like to refer the decision of
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Siddharam
 Satlingappa Mhetre Vs. State of Maharashtra &
 Ors. ,, reported in (2011) 1 SCC 694, more
 particularly Paragraph Nos.14 & 112, which read as
 under :- 16. Now coming back to the facts of the case, it is
 the specific case of the prosecution that with a
 sole intent to take revenge from the deceased, a
 systematic well designed plan has been
 orchestrated and as a party of it, the accused
 have created pressure upon the deceased to
 withdraw the complaint filed by him and when he
 did not succumb to the same, they arranged one
 honey trap and sent one minor girl with the
 deceased to develop physical relations and,
 thereafter, she had gone to hospital for the
 purpose of treatment, where two accused, who are
 advocate by profession, reached there as a party
 of their conspiracy and on giving bite of
 information about the involvement of the deceased,
 those two accused called media and publicized the
 said news at a large scale with a sole intent to
 tarnish the image of the deceased, as a result of
 which, the deceased went under depress state of
 mind, which leads him to commit suicide by hanging
 himself and while committing suicide, he left one
 suicide note mentioning the specific name and role
 of the accused therein, therefore, FIR has been
 lodged, wherein the applicant is shown as accused
 no.2. After registration of the FIR, the
 investigation was put into motion and during the
 course of investigation, other accused persons,
 who are also involved in the commission of crime,
 were arrested but subsequently they were released Page 17 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 on bail by the court concerned. After conclusion
 of the investigation, the chargesheet came to be
 filed against the arrested persons, wherein the
 applicant is shown as absconding accused. I have
 considered the investigation papers provided by
 learned Public Prosecutor during the course of
 arguments and found that there are ample material
 and evidence available, which connect the
 applicant with the commission of crime. Not only
 that, from the chargesheet papers, it is also
 found out that the applicant is also actively
 involved in hatching conspiracy as also in
 executing the same, wherein one innocent person
 has lost his valuable life. 17. It is required to be noted that a person who does
 not himself commit a crime, may however command,
 urge, encourage, induce, request, or help a third
 person to bring it about and thereby be guilty of
 the offence of abetment. The term 'abet' in
 general usage means to assist, advance, aid,
 conduce, help and promote. In Corpus Juris
 Secundum, the meaning of the word 'abet' has been
 given as "To abet has been defined as meaning to
 aid; to assist to give aid; to command, to
 procure, or to counsel, to countenance, to
 encourage, counsel, induce, or assist, to
 encourage or to set another on to commit". The
 death of a person attracts many offences to be
 determined. In other words, death can take place
 by culpable homicide, murder, suicide or abetment Page 18 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 to suicide and facts and circumstances of case
 constitute a particular crime. Further, if a
 person commits suicide due to reason not known,
 nobody is liable for that incident but if a person
 commits suicide due to abetment of somebody, it is
 a serious matter and a crime punishable to the
 abettor. The essence of abetment is active and
 intentional assistance of a person to the
 perpetrator of an offence. It is therefore
 essential to keep in mind when considering the law
 relating to abetment is the requirement of mens
 rea as a precondition for liability. As can be
 gauged from a plain reading of Section 107 of the
 IPC, instigation, engaging with another in a
 conspiracy to do a thing or intentionally aiding
 another are all acts in which the person abetting
 knowingly encourages or assists another person in
 the commission of the offence. Thus, knowledge
 about the act and its effect is implicit in the
 construction of the provision itself. Further, the
 first form of abetment is by instigation. The word
 'instigate' literally means to provoke, incite,
 urge on or bring about by persuasion to do
 anything. It denotes incitement or urging to do
 some drastic or unadvisable action to stimulate or
 incite. A person is said to instigate another when
 he urges forward or provokes, incites, urges or
 encourages such person to do an act prohibited by
 law. Instigation may be in any form. Law does not
 require instigation to be in a particular form or Page 19 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 that it should only be in words. The instigation
 may be by conduct. Instigation to commit suicide
 is inferred from a series of acts on the part of
 accused that led to the creation of such
 circumstances where the deceased had no other
 option left with him/her other than committing
 suicide. These series of acts can be said to
 include use of force, words, conduct, willful
 omission or deeds or even silence of such accused
 in order to irritate or annoy the victim to such
 an extent that it led him/her to take steps to end
 his/her life. It is important that there is a live
 or proximate link between the act of abetment and
 the actual commission of suicide. Thus in view of
 the above, if the facts of the present case are
 examined, in that event, it is found out that
 there is direct link connecting the applicant with
 the commission of crime. Further, Section 306 read
 with Section 107 of IPC, has been interpreted,
 time and again, and its principles are well-
 established. To attract the offence of abetment to
 suicide, it is important to establish proof of
 direct or indirect acts of instigation or
 incitement of suicide by the accused, which must
 be in close proximity to the commission of suicide
 by the deceased. Such instigation or incitement
 should reveal a clear mens rea to aid, abet and
 instigate the commission of suicide and should put
 the victim in such a position that he/she would
 have no other option but to commit suicide. The Page 20 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 law on abetment has been crystallized by a
 plethora of decisions by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 as well as this Hon'ble Court. The abetment
 involves a mental process of instigating or
 intentionally aiding another person to do a
 particular thing. To bring a charge under Section
 306 of the IPC, the act of abetment would require
 the positive act of instigating or intentionally
 aiding another person to commit suicide. Without
 such mens rea on the part of the accused person
 being apparent from the face of the record, a
 charge under the aforesaid Section cannot be
 sustained. Not only that, the abetment also
 requires an active act, direct or indirect, on the
 part of the accused person which left the deceased
 with no other option but to commit suicide. In the
 present case, because of political rivalry, the
 disputes have been cropped up, which resulted into
 filing of an FIR by the deceased against the
 accused persons, therefore keeping grudge about
 the said fact, a conspiracy has been hatched by
 all accused in connivance with each other and,
 thereafter as a part of it, they have framed the
 deceased in a false offence and, thereafter, a
 honey trap was arranged by sending one minor girl
 to the deceased and after the said act, the said
 minor girl reached hospital and as a part of said
 conspiracy, two accused reached there and in their
 presence, the said minor girl had given bite of
 information about the involvement of the deceased Page 21 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 in the said act and moment the said fact was
 disclosed, media was called and news was
 publicized at a large scale, as a result of which,
 the deceased went into depression. Not only that,
 there were constant threats from the accused
 persons to withdraw the criminal complaint filed
 against them. Thus the accused have created such a
 situation upon the deceased so that he would not
 have been left with option but to commit suicide,
 which he had done and ended his life. Thus in the
 fact of the present case, on the basis of the
 investigation papers, mens rea and strong motive
 has been established by the prosecution and thus,
 there is direct link of the applicant with the
 commission of crime. Therefore in view of the
 above facts of the case, in my considered opinion,
 the fact of a human being having committed
 suicide, cannot be disputed. Prima facie it
 appears that the suicide was on account of
 pressure mounted by the accused persons including
 the present applicant. Therefore, the applicant
 does not deserve relief as prayed for. 18. I have also considered the affidavit filed by the
 IO before the court concerned at the time of
 opposing the bail application preferred by the
 applicant as also findings given and conclusion
 arrived at by the learned Judge while rejecting
 the application of the applicant. On consideration
 of the same, it is found out that there are
 serious allegations against the applicant, Page 22 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 therefore, looking to the nature and gravity of
 the offence, the learned Judge has rightly
 rejected the bail application of the applicant as
 the order of grant of anticipatory bail cannot be
 passed in a very slipshod and casual manner. A
 bare perusal of the impugned order reflects proper
 application of mind so far as the relevant aspects
 which are to be taken into consideration while
 deciding a bail application in a serious offence
 like the one on hand. Not only that, there are
 other material available in the chargesheet
 papers, which suggests the involvement of the
 applicant in the commission of crime, however this
 being an application seeking anticipatory bail, I
 refrain myself from making any comment as it would
 adversely affect the trial of the applicant.
 Therefore considering the facts of the present
 case, it is not in dispute that the investigation
 is at crucial stage qua the applicant and
 considering the serious offence committed by the
 accused in connivance with each other, the
 custodial interrogation of the applicant is
 required. Therefore, the present application
 deserves to be rejected. 19. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumitha
 Pradeep Vs. Arun Kumar C.K. & Anr. , reported in
 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1529 held that merely because
 custodial interrogation was not required by itself
 could not be a ground to grant anticipatory bail.
 The first and the foremost thing the Court hearing Page 23 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 the anticipatory bail application is to consider
 is the prima facie case against the accused. The
 relevant extract of the judgment is reproduced
 hereinbelow:- 20. Thus while taking into consideration the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
 of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) as also ratio laid down in other decisions as stated Page 25 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined

 above, I have gone through the contents of the
 FIR, which is placed on record and also considered
 the affidavit of the investigating officer filed
 before the learned Judge concerned opposing the
 bail application preferred by the applicants. Upon
 going through the contents of the FIR, it appears
 that prima facie case is made out against the
 applicants and material collected so far suggests
 the involvement of the applicants in the
 commission of crime. 21. For the foregoing reasons, having regard to facts
 and circumstances, peculiar to the instant case,
 as have been analyzed hereinabove, I am of the
 considered opinion that there seems to be prima
 facie case, which suggests involvement of the
 applicant in the commission of crime and the
 applicant has failed to make out a special case
 for exercise of power to grant bail. Therefore
 considering the facts and parameters, necessary to
 be considered for adjudication of anticipatory
 bail, this Court does not find any exceptional
 ground to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction
 under Section 482 of the BNSS to grant
 anticipatory bail. More so, investigation is still
 going on in the present case so far as the present
 applicant is concerned. It is settled proposition
 of law that power exercisable under Section 482
 BNSS, is somewhat discretionary in character and
 it is to be exercised with caution in exceptional
 cases. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/17571/2025 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 09/09/2025

 undefined 22. Hence, the present application seeking for
 anticipatory bail is hereby rejected. 23. Needless to say that the observations touching the
 merits of the case are purely for the purpose of
 deciding the question of grant of bail and shall
 not be construed as an expression of the final
 opinion in the main matter. Sd/- (DIVYESH A. JOSHI, J.)
 Gautam Page 27 of 27 Uploaded by PATIL GAUTAMBHAI GOPALBHAI(HC00190) on Tue Sep 09 2025 Downloaded on : Wed Sep 10 00:26:07 IST 2025