% 12.01.2026 1. The instant petition has arisen out of the order dated 10.01.2025
 passed by the Appellate Authority i.e. Divisional Commissioner under the
 provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens
 Act, 2007 (the Act of 2007). The impugned order upholds and affirms the
 view taken by the District Magistrate in order dated 15.04.2024. It is, thus,
 seen that there are concurrent findings of fact by two authorities. 2. The petitioners claim to be senior citizens and the owners of property
 bearing No.D-14, Ground Floor, Pamposh Enclave, New Delhi-110048
 (hereinafter referred to as the property in question). Respondent nos. 2 and 3

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/01/2026 at 20:33:06
 herein are the son and daughter-in-law of the petitioners. The case of the
 petitioners is that they were harassed, threatened and physically assaulted to
 force them to give their properties to respondent nos. 2 and 3. 3. Mr. Pritish Sabharwal, learned counsel who appears on behalf of the
 petitioners, has made various submissions. He submits that the orders passed
 by both the authorities i.e. by the District Magistrate and the Divisional
 Commissioner are wholly perverse. According to him, there are sufficient
 instances, including the medico legal case of dated 23.01.2024 (Annexure P- 4) in respect of petitioner no. 1 and the filing of false cases, to indicate
 harassment of the petitioners by respondents no. 2 and 3. He, therefore,
 contends that if the aforesaid document and material are appreciated in right
 perspective, it would indicate that a cause has arisen for protection against
 the said respondents and directions in favour of the petitioners to continue to
 reside in the property in question. 4. The aforesaid submissions are vehemently opposed by Mr. Sacchin
 Puri, learned senior counsel who appears on behalf of respondent nos.2 and 3. According to him, the concerned authorities have considered all the
 material placed on record and have rightly dismissed the petitioners'
 application. He has clarified that the Annexure P-4 relates to some eye
 surgery of petitioner no. 1 and has nothing to do with the alleged allegation
 of beating him. He unequivocally submits that there has been no instance of
 any cruelty being meted out to the petitioners. According to Mr. Puri, even a
 suit has been filed by respondent nos.2 and 3 claiming right over the
 property in question. 5. I have considered the submissions made by learned counsel for the
 parties and also perused the record. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/01/2026 at 20:33:06 6. The Supreme Court in the case of S. Vanitha v. The Deputy
 Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban District & Ors.1 has held that
 undoubtedly, the authorities have a power to evict the son and daughter-in-
 law in favour of the senior citizens under the Act of 2007 , however, such
 power cannot be exercised mechanically or solely on the basis of ownership.
 The provisions of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 confer certain rights on women, including of residence in a shared
 household. The Court has held that the provisions of both the aforenoted
 beneficial legislations are to be harmonised so that the rights of the
 contesting parties are balanced on a case-to-case basis. The relevant portion
 of the said decision is extracted below, for reference: 7. It is thus seen that in proceedings under the Act of 2007, orders for
 eviction must not be resorted to, as a matter of routine and the rights of the
 parties are to be balanced as and when required. 8. In the instant case, in paragraph No. 7 of the order dated 15.04.2024,
 it is clearly recorded that as per the inquiry report and subsequent hearings
 no evidence of harassment of the petitioners was brought on record. The
 respondents' submission that they were willing to live peacefully with the
 petitioners and are ready to take care of them was also taken on record. 9. Paragraph nos. 7 to 9 of the order dated 15.04.2024 passed by the
 District Magistrate, are extracted below, for reference:- 10. The order passed by the Divisional Commissioner i.e. the Appellate
 Authority would indicate that upon due consideration of the material on
 record, the Appellate Authority has found that the behaviour of the
 petitioner no.2 was not of a prudent man. Even the video which was shown
 to the Appellate Authority indicated that petitioner no.2 is short tempered.
 The concluding paragraph of the said order is extracted below, for
 reference:- Both the sides have filed video recordings to support their contentions.
 From the video footage It does not seems to be the fit case for evicting
 the respondents. In fact the respondents seems to be the victim. Mere
 allegations and owning the property is not enough to invoke the
 provisions of the Senior Citizen Act. The appellants have neither denied
 that they do not have the above properties nor they denied the
 submissions of the respondents qua the daughters. There are various
 complaints and FIRs against the appellants especially against the
 appellant no. 2 and he has also undergone imprisonment, these facts are
 sufficient to conclude that the behaviour of appellant no. 2 is not of a
 prudent man. Also the video shows that appellant no. 2 is a short temper
 and angry person. The district Magistrate has rightly dismissed the
 eviction application/ complaint of the appellants. In fact the Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court had dismissed twice the petition of the appellants for
 quashing of the FIR which means High Court find substance in the FIR.
 Also there is a protection order from the Hon'ble Court of CMM, Saket
 Courts and the appellants have failed to show vacation of stay and
 protection order passed in favour of respondent no. 2. The respondents
 having responsibility of their minor children and there is no reason to
 evict them as there is no ill treatment or harassment at the hands of the
 respondents. The appellants have various properties. This court finds no

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/01/2026 at 20:33:06
 reason to interfere in the order of District Magistrate (South).
 Accordingly, the appeal is hereby dismissed being devoid of merits.
 Appeal stands disposed of. Copy of this order be provided to both the
 parties. Record of the proceedings before DM (South) be also returned
 with the copy of this order." 11. The submission of Mr. Sabharwal, referring to certain petitions filed
 by the petitioners before this Court, that the Appellate Authority, in the
 impugned order has misconstrued the same, as if, they were dismissed vide
 orders dated 11.09.2024 (Annexure P-11) and 28.11.2024 (Annexure P-12),
 cannot be of much significance. The content of the aforesaid orders may
 have been wrongly construed by the Appellate Authority, however, the same
 is not the sole reason for the dismissal of the petitioners' appeal. 12. Having considered the overall facts and circumstances of the instant
 case, the Court finds that under its limited jurisdiction under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India, there is no reason to re-appreciate the entire
 material and to draw a fresh conclusion. Reference can be made to the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Rajendra Diwan v. Pradeep Kumar
 Ranibala.2 The relevant portion of the said judgment is extracted below, for
 reference: (2019) 20 SCC 143

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/01/2026 at 20:33:06 13. A perusal of the impugned orders indicates that the authorities have
 neither exceeded their jurisdiction nor acted perversely, unreasonably, or
 arbitrarily. The conclusion drawn in the impugned orders is sufficiently
 reasoned and hence, the Court reaffirms the same. 14. Accordingly, the instant writ petition stands dismissed. PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J
 JANUARY 12, 2026
 Nc/amg

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/01/2026 at 20:33:06