SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: That's why anything in teenage years can change the life 
DATE: 2024-12-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hbwwgq/thats_why_anything_in_teenage_years_can_change/

--- POST TEXT ---

My three cousins grown up around very strict Father, the middle cousin got married at 18, whenever I used to go in their home there used to be a picture of youngest cousin looking like handsome padhaku engineer, he got married, it was forced he used to fear his dad so much he couldn't said to him but then he cried nd told his elder sister and other close family members before getting married, everyone knew his father nature but still had to marry as no one did anything, then they had a child, his father died, some years after he got divorce. Whenever I used to visit I noticed he changed a lot, ur cousins can be a adult for others but only u know around family they act childish/hasi mazak, that innocence was gone. He struggled financially, then used to use his mom pension for drinks, in fights he used to shout at his mom till she cries. We got to know that he's in a relationship and used to talk very abusively to her. I was thinking something is missing and now as he want to get married to that girl I remembered something my parents used to talk but I always ignored.

At 17 he ran away 100km away from his home with his first girlfriend, she was from Teli community, he comes in our home suddenly in night, in the morning my parents said to him to leave, then they went to someone's home (friend of my mom) and stayed for two days, they were just 10 minutes away and we didn't know, in the morning close to ten people comes in my home with police (she called her bua in the night), the area was totally sealed, the police started searching and found my cousin at the the kirana store and then maar maar ke leke gaye dono ko. The family suffered as the uncle got arrested where they stayed. my dad too was very close to get arrested but he handled the situation properly. 

He got beaten badly, the girl changed her bayan, probably to save his life. That gave him so much shock that he was in coma for one month, I've no doubt, they definitely hit on his head. 

A year ago he was in my home and we just went outside on bike didn't knew he was taking me to the masjid which is one hour away, I was outside for one hour more, just by watching him go inside masjid his father would've disown him. The girl he's going to marry now is said to be in his life from 14 years, he forced her not to get married even saying this to her parents. 

I was maybe 9 or 10 when my cousin sister got married at 18, they were financially strong, when the couple was finding the ring in the milk I was sitting on the bed with others watching the marriage video to find all of us in that. It ends, the plane goes up with a sad song and I cried, Don't know why? In just recent years I got to know it was forced 

The eldest was the last to get married