SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Victim of cheque fraud/cloning
DATE: 2018-03-29
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8815oz/victim_of_cheque_fraudcloning/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was recently a victim of cheque fraud due to cloning and I would like to share my experience and get opinions randians.
So I own a real estate development agency, a couple of days back on Tuesday my mother went to withdraw money from a current account in SBI bank. The account previously held a balance of 15 lakhs but the balance on Tuesday was 12,000. We were shocked and approached the bank employees who told us that the money was withdrawn through cheque via RTGS, but the shocker was that we still had the original cheques that were deposited in the bank. 
Apparently someone had "cloned" the cheques and withdrawn the money. The signature was also very haphazard and did not match. Not only that but the phone number linked to the account was also changed so that we would not get any notification of the withdrawn money.

After a couple of days of investigation the branch manager told us that the branch would refund us the money. It would be the employees who would be pooping the money to pay us. The manager also requested us not to file a FIR as the officers involved would lose their jobs. Unke bacche Hain, wo road pe aa jayenge.... So on and so forth.

Now my mother bless her bleeding heart has decided to not file a FIR because "police aise bhi kuch nahin karta hai" and "unke baccho Kai bare mein socho"
I on the other hand should feel like there should be some consequences of their actions, the bank clearly screwed up big time. I mean cheque fraud is acceptable but how was the number linked to our account changed. It prevented us from knowing about the theft for almost 2 months and it could happen to literally anyone and no one would be any the wiser. I feel like this is a matter for public concern and the police and media should be involved. 

So to summarize,
The cheque was fake,
The signature did not match and at least 3 people passed the cheques
There was no phone call placed to confirm the transaction
The number linked to the account was changed
The same number was used in a similar cheque cloning crime in a different about branch yet no one was any the wiser
SBI is railroading and making one employee the scapegoat when clearly it was a failure on multiple levels

So what do you people think? FIR or no FIR