SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need help to prevent the unintentional Citizenship fraud.
DATE: 2022-04-02
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/tualc6/need_help_to_prevent_the_unintentional/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have to use throwaway/nsfw account for this, i feel little insecure posting this.
So, Hi neighbour mates I am from Nepal and I really need some help/answers from you guys.
I am Nepali citizen holding nepali citizenship/passport.
Did my Bachelor at Bangalore and after 3 years of stay in Hostel, College issued a bona fide certificate so that we(Nepali students) could apply for Aadhar. And we did, on hostel address our adharcard was made. 
Question.: Now, i have read in many places(websites) that Adhar card is NOT the citizenship proof.it is'nt right? If that is true then many Indians also dont know abt this, my colleagues get surprised when they hear i have adhar even being a Nepali.

After aadhar was made, we got to know if company hires you they will ask for pan card as well. So there was one stationary who was applying for pan card on behalf of students by taking some fee and all, i guess they used their stationary address in the form, or adhar address(i.e hostel address) i dont know. But yeah our Pan card was also made.

Fast forward to 2 years, the company in which i was hired, had my salary Account created at HDFC, now it is interesting that company had registered me as a Nepali, but to the bank I presented them my passport as well and also i had adharcard, i really wanted them to create my account as a foreigner citizen using my passport but they used my Adhaar. Now in the bank acount details it shows Indian.

Edit: (missed this part)

Now i am intending to have a driving licence (not yet applied) but i think with adhaar card i can apply for DL right? 

Now please let me know am i getting into some citizenship fraud unintentionally? If yes how can i do all these in a right way using my Nepali passport. Also, what different document verifies Indians as a Indian citizen.. please provide your thoughts here and any tips to not to get into trouble in the future.