I.A.No.20104/2014 (under Order XII Rule 6 CPC by the plaintiff) 1. This is an application under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil

Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ) filed by the plaintiff in this suit for partition etc. The suit

for partition is filed for the property of Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal namely 12,

Kohat Enclave, Pitampura, Delhi-34. Plaintiff is the daughter of Smt. Gobind

Kaur Sabharwal. Defendant nos.1 and 3 are the brothers of the plaintiff and also

the children of Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal. Defendant nos.2 and 4 are also the IA-20104/2014in CS(OS) No.2113/2010 Page 1 of 11 sister and brother of the plaintiff and again children of Smt. Gobind Kaur

Sabharwal. 2. In the plaint, it is pleaded that the mother Smt. Gobind Kaur

Sabharwal died on 4.11.2002 and that the mother died leaving behind the

registered Will dated 16.4.2001 whereby 1/5th share in the suit property at Kohat

Enclave was given to each of the plaintiff and the four defendants who are the

children of Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal. The alternative case which is set up in

the plaint vide para 8 is that even if there is no Will of the mother, the parties to the

suit, being the children of late Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal, they will inherit 1/5th

right in the suit property at Kohat Enclave, Delhi. 3. The suit is essentially contested by defendant no.3 who pleads that the

suit property was purchased in the name of the mother from the funds which were

provided by the defendant no.3 on account of love and affection of the defendant

no.3 towards the mother. This aspect inter alia is stated in para 3 of the

preliminary objections as also para 1 of the reply on merits of the written statement

of defendant no.3 and these paras read as under:- Thus, the averments made in para under reply are partly correct and
 substantially incorrect. It is vehemently denied that aforesaid Smt. Gobind
 Kaur Sabharwal, was in exclusive possession of the suit property. As
 submitted above, since the property was acquired by the answering defendant
 in the name of his mother thus, she had been residing in suit property
 alongwith family of the answering defendant. Further, since the defendant
 no.1 was unmarried and was not keeping well as such, answering defendant
 had been shouldering responsibility to take care defendant no.1 while residing
 in the said property." (underlining added) 4. In this suit issues were framed on 12.12.2012 and which issues read as

under:- 5. Evidence of the plaintiff was being recorded when the present

application was filed. In the present application, it is pleaded that plea taken by the

defendant no.3, covered under issue no.2, is barred under Section 4(2) of the

Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (in short „the Benami Act ‟), and with

the aspect that there are no facts pleaded to bring the case within any one of the

exceptions of existence of an HUF or mother being a trustee for the defendant no.3

found in Section 4(3) of the Benami Act. 6. It is trite that the object of Order XII Rule 6 CPC is to prevent parties

to go through unnecessary trial if the suit can be disposed of on the basis of

pleadings as they stand. No doubt powers under Order XII Rule 6 CPC are

discretionary, however, it has also been repeatedly held by the courts that

unnecessary trial just because issues are framed causes harassment to the parties.

Once the suit can be disposed of on the basis of admitted pleadings and other

admissions, the suit ought to be disposed of by not putting the parties to the burden

of a trial. 7. I have already reproduced above the pleadings of the defendant no.3.

All that these pleadings say is that defendant no.3 contributed funds for the

property which was purchased in the name of the mother on account of natural

love and affection for the mother. A pleading of purchasing a property in the name

of the mother on account of natural love and affection for the mother is not the

pleading which can be taken as a plea of the suit property having been purchased in IA-20104/2014in CS(OS) No.2113/2010 Page 4 of 11 the name of the mother Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal on account of fiduciary

relationship of defendant no.3 with the mother Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal. The

requirement of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act is that there must be a specific

pleading of the property being purchased in the name of a person as a trustee or the

property being purchased on account of fiduciary relationship. Section 4 of the

Benami Act reads as under:- 8. Admittedly, in the present case, there is no plea which is set up of the

existence of an HUF and this Court only has to examine as to whether the pleading

of defendant no.3 falls within the scope of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. In

my opinion, mere pleading of love and affection towards the mother cannot be

taken as a pleading of the property being purchased by the defendant no.3 in the

name of his mother as a trustee once Sections 81, 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts IA-20104/2014in CS(OS) No.2113/2010 Page 5 of 11 Act, 1882 stand repealed by Section 7 of the Benami Act. Natural relationships no

doubt have an element of trust, however, this natural element of trust on account of

natural relationship is not what is the subject matter of Section 4(3)(b) of the

Benami Act because this sub-Section specifically requires an averment/pleading

with respect to the property being purchased as a trustee. Natural love and

affection is not equivalent to possession of the property having been purchased as a

trustee, and which is the only exception under Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act.

The effect of repeal of certain provisions of the Indian Trusts Act for understating

the meaning of trustee as found in Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act has been

dealt by me in the judgment in the case of JM Kohli Vs. Madan Mohan Sahni

and Anr in RFA No.207/2012 decided on 07.05.2012, and the same applies to the

issue at hand and the relevant paras 6 to 10 of the said judgment are reproduced as

under:- 8. In a way, therefore, there may be some ostensible conflict between the
 provision of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act and Section 7 of the same Act
 which repeals the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 , however, one has to
 read and interpret Section 4(3)(b) in a manner which is in accord with the
 legislative intention to bar claims against properties held as benami. The concept
 of trust was always inbuilt once a transaction was a benami transaction as the
 benamidar was the trustee for the real owner. But in spite of the concept of trust
 being inbuilt in benami transactions, the Benami Act provided that no rights
 could be asserted in a benami property by the actual/de jure owner. Putting it differently, once Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the India Trusts Act,
 1882 have been repealed, they cannot be brought in from the back door, so to
 say, by giving the same content contained in the repealed provisions of Sections
 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 to Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami
 Act. If we give such an interpretation, the entire Benami Act will fall and it will
 be as if the same has not been enacted. Therefore, Section 4(3)(b) which
 provides that the property which is held as a trustee or in a fiduciary capacity
 must be interpreted in the sense that the trustee or a person who is holding the
 property in a fiduciary capacity has either committed a fraud and got the
 property title in his name or is in furtherance of law holding property in his
 name however in the capacity of a trustee or in fiduciary capacity, although the
 real owner is somebody else. Repealed Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian
 Trusts Act, 1882 read as under:- 9. Two of the examples where the Supreme Court has held the property to
 be held as a trustee in terms of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act are the
 judgments in the cases of C. Gangacharan V. C. Narayanan , 2000 ( 1) SCC
 459 and P.V. Sankara Kurup V. Leelavathy Nambiar , 1994(6) SCC 68. In the case of C. Gangacharan (supra), the Supreme Court has held that
 the property was held as a trustee as per Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act, and
 the person in whose name the property stood cannot take up a plea of the bar of Benami Act , inasmuch as, actually the owner had given moneys for the property
 to be purchased under his name, however, the moneys were in fraud utilized to
 get the property purchased in the name of defendants in that suit. In the case of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra) also the obvious fraud which was perpetrated was
 that the property was to be purchased in the name of the plaintiff by his attorney
 holder and which the defendants did not do and instead got the property
 purchased directly in their name. In the case of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra), the
 Supreme Court was dealing with Section 66 of CPC as it existed before its repeal
 by Section 7 of the Benami Act and in the facts of the case as stated above it was
 held that the purchaser had acted in fiduciary capacity as an agent and
 consequently the bar of the Benami Act would not apply. In the said judgment ,
 the Supreme Court held that when the agent was employed to purchase the
 property on behalf of his principal, however does so in his own name, i.e. the
 agent‟s name then upon conveyance or transfer of the property to the agent, he
 stands as a trustee for the principal. 10. Therefore, in certain cases where there is obvious breach of trust in
 purchasing the property in the name of a person, whereas it ought to have been
 purchased in the name of the principal or the real owner, Supreme Court has, to
 that limited extent, held that such actions are covered under Section 4(3)(b) of
 the Benami Act and such transactions are not hit by the Benami Act ." (underlining added) 9. Learned counsel for the defendant no.3, and who is supported by

defendant no.1B has placed reliance upon the judgment of a learned Single Judge

of this Court in the case of Shri Mahinder Singh Vs. Mr. Pardaman Singh AIR

1992 Delhi 357. The said judgment is squarely distinguishable on the facts

because in the said case there was a specific pleading of existence of an HUF, and

therefore, it was held that though the property was in the name of the mother Smt.

Sahib Kaur, it was a disputed question of fact which required trial as to whether the

property was or was not purchased from the HUF funds once pleadings with IA-20104/2014in CS(OS) No.2113/2010 Page 8 of 11 respect to existence of HUF were stated in detail and which pleadings in that suit

are given in detail in paras 3 to 5 of the said judgment . The facts of each case are

dependent on the pleadings of that case, and in the facts of the present case, when

the pleading of the defendant no.3 is seen, it is found that defendant no.3 has not

made the requisite pleading for the defence of the defendant no.3 to fall within the

exception of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. 10. Counsel for the defendant no.3 sought to argue that during the course

of trial defendant no.3 will lead evidence to show that the property was purchased

in the name of the mother as a trustee, however, no amount of evidence can be

looked into on a plea which is not put forth in the pleading, and therefore, once the

plea of the mother Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal having the property purchased in

the name of trustee is not found in the pleading, then no amount of evidence can be

led by the defendant no.3 or looked into by the Court of the property being in the

name of the mother Smt. Gobind Kaur Sabharwal as a trustee. 11. In view of the above, I exercise my powers under Order XII Rule 6

CPC . Since the defence of the defendant no.3 does not fall within the exception of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act, the defence will be a defence which will be

barred by law as per Section 4(2) of the Benami Act. Once the defence is barred by

law, there is no need to go into trial on this aspect because there cannot be a trial

with respect to a plea/pleading which the law bars for being taken up. IA-20104/2014in CS(OS) No.2113/2010 Page 9 of 11 12. In view of the above discussion, this application is allowed and the

suit of the plaintiff for partition is decreed. Each of the plaintiff and the defendants

will have 1/5th right in the suit property bearing no. 12, Kohat Enclave, Pitampura,

Delhi-34. Since the defendant no.1 had died during the pendency of the suit, the

share of the branch of defendant no.1 will fall to the legal heirs of defendant no.1

in equal shares i.e 1/5th in the suit property falling to the share of Sh. S.Surjeet

Singh Sabharwal/defendant no.1 will fall equally to his legal heirs subject of

course to any decision of any civil court which would decide if the share of

defendant no.1 has not to be divided equally between the legal heirs and will fall

only to some or one of the legal heirs on account of any testamentary instrument or

any other document etc as a result of which the share of defendant no.1 would not

be equally divided between the legal heirs and which issue is left open. 13. Let a preliminary decree accordingly be drawn up. I.A is allowed and disposed of accordingly. CS(OS) No. 2113/2010 14. Parties will now give their suggestions with respect to partitioning of

the suit property or if the property is not capable for being partitioned, how the

property is to be disposed of for the shares of the parties in the suit property to be

divided among the parties. IA-20104/2014in CS(OS) No.2113/2010 Page 10 of 11 15. List for further proceedings on 11th August, 2016.