Title: Discussion on the Finance Bill, 2001.(Bill passed) 

1254 hours 

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The House will now take up item no. 12, Finance Bill, 2001. If the House agrees, we may allot five hours for all the three stages of the Finance Bill. That is, four hours for the general discussion on this, half-an-hour for clause by clause consideration and another half-an-hour for the third reading stage of the Bill. Voting may begin at 5 p.m. 

Now, the Finance Minister. ाीमती ज:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कौर मीणा (:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााई माधोपुर) :महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मैंने राज:द्ृद्धड्ड;थान में नौ ल:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोचे जाने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांधी मुद्दे को रखा था।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत गं:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाीर मुद्दा है, नौ ल:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोचा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। … ( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ादी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा मंत्री तथा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचना प्रौद्योगिकी मंत्री (श्री प्रमोद महाजन) :अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाुरु होने दो, कल इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करेंगे। MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: We have already gone to the next item. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI YASHWANT SINHA ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, while moving the Finance Bill for consideration, with your permission, I would like to say a few words. In my Budget proposals, I had announced several major changes in the taxation structure and procedures. On the excise side, I had introduced a single rate of CENVAT that applies to most of the commodities. I rationalised the regime of special excise duties. On direct taxes, I have maintained the stability of rates. These proposals have been widely acclaimed by the trade and industry. I have, however, also received representations and suggestions from different quarters with regard to a few aspects of changes that I introduced in the excise and customs duty structure. Many hon. members have also written to me. I express my gratitude for their suggestions and advice. Sir, on careful consideration of all aspects, I propose to announce a few modifications in my Budget proposals. 1256 hours (Mr. Speaker in the Chair) 

Regarding indirect taxes, I had proposed to impose 16 per cent excise duty on branded readymade garments and accessories. It has been argued that restriction of the levy to branded garments and accessories alone would cause distortions and manipulations. Taking these arguments into account, I propose that all garments, branded or unbranded, would be subjected to excise duty at 16 per cent. However, clothing accessories, raincoats and undergarments will be exempt from the new levy. The small scale excise duty exemption scheme would be applicable to garments also. The modified scheme will be effective from 1st May, 2001. The House will recall that I had proposed an ad-valorem structure of excise duty for independent textile processors. While some have welcomed the abolition of chamber-based duty, some others have pleaded for its restoration. I am convinced that an ad-valorem duty regime is to be preferred to compounded levy system. However, I have received strong representations that the smaller processing houses are yet to prepare themselves fully to meet the threat of competition and to absorb new technology. I am not inclined to restore the chamber-based duty for all independent textile processors. However, processors whose investment on plant and machinery does not exceed Rs. 3 crore would be allowed the option to pay duty on chamber basis. The rate of monthly payment for those who exercise this option would be increased by Rs. 50,000 in each of the two pre-Budget slabs. No abatement for closure of a stenter or removal of a chamber would be allowed. This change will be effective from 1.5.2001. I also propose to exempt footwear made exclusively of plastic materials and of retail sale price up to Rs. 125 per pair from the nominal excise levy of four per cent ad-valorem that I had proposed in the Budget. 13.00 hrs. 

In my budget proposals, I had announced that the ball and roller bearings shall not be eligible to the scheme of SSI exemption. As a special dispensation I propose to exempt units producing ball and roller bearings upto Rs.25 lakhs per annum from excise duty. This will help tiny units. This new scheme will be operational from 1.5.2001. To encourage indigenous shipping companies to acquire new ships, it is proposed to abolish the 5 per cent customs duty on ships that was introduced in this budget. The customs duty on metcoke is proposed to be reduced to 5 per cent on actual user basis to steel plants to help improve their viability. The concessional rate of duty of 55 per cent for the import of crude palm oil by sick vanaspati units was proposed in the budget. It is proposed to abolish the concessional rate of duty with a view to avoid discrimination. The CVD of 16 per cent on 12 critical items of textile machinery including shuttleless looms is proposed to be abolished in order to promote capital investment and modernisation of textile mills. The House may recall that in my budget proposals, I had proposed to increase the basic customs duty on second hand cars and two-wheelers to 105 per cent. My colleague, the Minister of Commerce and Industry, has suggested that in a similar manner the apprehensions of imports of Completely Built Units of cars and two-wheelers need to be addressed. Taking this into account, I propose to increase the basic customs duty on CBUs of cars and two-wheelers from 35 per cent to 60 per cent. In my budget proposals I had proposed to reduce the customs duty on telecom equipment from 25 per cent to 15 per cent. However, the duty on parts and components was retained at 15 per cent. I am informed that equalising the duty rates would affect the domestic telecom equipment to their substantial disadvantage. In order to prevent the loss of production of this segment, I propose to reduce the customs duty on specified parts of telecom equipment other than Populated Printed Circuit Boards to five per cent. As a fillip to the IT industry, I propose to add 32 specified items in the list of machines and equipment that are allowed to be imported at a low rate of five per cent basic customs duty. Changes in excise and customs duties mentioned above, except a few that are effective from 1.5.2001, will come into force from tomorrow. Copies of the notifications will be laid on the Table of the House in due course of time. These changes do not have any appreciable revenue implications and are broadly revenue neutral. Coming to Direct Taxes, Sir, after considering the various representations received from different quarters, I also propose to make some changes in my proposals relating to direct taxes. Under the existing provisions, the exporters are required to pay tax on 40 per cent of their income for the current year, the percentage increasing to 60 per cent, 80 per cent and 100 per cent for the next three years. Keeping in view the difficulties of these taxpayers, I propose to re-phase the withdrawal provisions through backloading. For the current financial year, they will now be taxed to the extent of 30 per cent of their profits and the percentage of their taxable income will increase to 50 per cent, 70 per cent and 100 per cent respectively for the next three years. I also propose to modify my proposal for tax deduction at source on interest payments. The limit of TDS is being raised from Rs.2500 earlier proposed, to Rs.5000. In the Finance Bill, I had proposed a reduction in the limit of deduction of interest income under section 80L from Rs.15,000 to Rs.9,000. To provide further relief to the taxpayers, I propose to revise the limit to Rs.12,000. The additional deduction will be with regard to interest on government securities. At present for salaried taxpayers, standard deduction up to Rs.25,000 is available for persons having income up to Rs.1 lakh and up to Rs.20,000 for persons having income from Rs.1 lakh to Rs.5 lakh. In order to give relief to salary earners, I propose to raise the limit of Rs.25,000 to Rs.30,000 which will now be available for income up to Rs.1,50,000. For persons having income from Rs.1,50,000 to Rs.3,00,000, the limit is being raised from Rs.20,000 to Rs.25,000. Those having the income from Rs.3 lakh to Rs.5 lakh will continue to enjoy the existing deduction of Rs.20,000. While this would result in a revenue loss of about Rs.1000 crore, it would concomitantly lead to additional retention of income in the hands of the assessees in this class to the same extent. While introducing the Finance Bill, I had proposed two dates for filing of returns – 31st July for non-corporates and 31st October for corporates. I now propose that the due dates for filing of returns in respect of non-corporate taxpayers whose accounts are to be statutorily audited will also be 31st October, in line with the due date for corporates. The funds enjoying exemption under section 10(23C) are proposed to be put at par with the charitable institutions claiming exemption under section 11, in respect of accumulation of their income. These funds like the charitable institutions will be allowed to accumulate 25 per cent of their income without any time limit. Accumulation of income beyond 25 per cent would be restricted to five years. Charitable trusts and funds will be required to publish their accounts only if their annual receipts exceed Rs.1 crore, as against the present limit of Rs.10 lakh proposed in the Bill. To facilitate de-mutualization and corporatisation of stock exchanges, it is proposed to provide that transfer of assets in such an arrangement shall not be liable for capital gains taxes. Transfer pricing provisions are proposed to be modified to clarify that these regulations shall also apply to transaction between the Head Office and its branch and that adjustment made to the transfer price in the case of one enterprise shall not by itself form the basis of a consequential adjustment in the case of the other enterprise. There are also other amendments resulting in minor modifications. Sir, with these modifications, I beg to move :* 

 

 

"That the Bill to give effect to the financial proposals of the Central Government for the financial year 2001-2002, be taken into consideration. " * Moved with the recommendation of the President 

 

SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL ( LATUR ): Sir, as the time is going to be limited, with your permission, I would like to read out my speech. The task of the Finance Minister is quite onerous. We understand his difficulties and sympathise with him. What he has done has been praised by some. But the meek and weak ones in the society have no voice. They keep quiet and suffer. They have not felt very convinced about the usefulness of the budgetary provisions for them. Some have spoken about their difficulties. In the House, there would be a few members who would take cudgels on their behalf. When they give vent to their feelings and assessment, the government would do better to understand their points of view and accommodate them to the extent possible, and not to brush them aside or try to defend their own views like lawyers in the courts of law. If the views expressed by the members of other parties are accepted to the extent possible, the budget would become more acceptable to the people and the result that would come out of it would become more acceptable to the people and to all of us. Sometimes, it is done. Sometimes, it is not done. And so, the results are commensurate with what is done, and what is not done. What is proposed to be done for the development of infrastructure, for broad band network, and internet services, for power generation, transmission and distribution network, for housing, for tea industry, for scientific research in some areas, for knowledge industry, for rural electrification, for integrated handling, storage and transportation of food grains and some such other measures cannot be found fault with. Let us hope that they may be used to increase production and productivity and not misused to manipulate the capital market. Modifications now suggested by the hon. Minister are also welcome. The capital market should develop. Capital should become available for the 

development of industry, trade, technology, agriculture etc. But, at times it is found that capital market is manipulated to earn unequitable profits and in the process the common man, who is not of manipulative nature, who trusts others easily, suffers and loses the savings of his life. The results of such manipulation cannot help the development of industry and trade. They sap the enthusiasm of common citizens and ultimately affect the short term and long term developmental activities and process. Those who want to manipulate and earn do not care what happens to others. They care for their profits and gains. The Government, the Parliament and the people at large cannot neglect the common man. They have to protect him. They should not throw him to the wind blowing in the market. If they do not do it, they can be blamed for dereliction of their duties. That has really happened in the past few days. The Government should take necessary steps to remedy the situation, to protect the unsuspecting investors, and establish the true credibility of the capital market. If necessary, laws should be made and amended to strengthen SEBI and other organisations to protect the investors. The matter should be fully inquired into. A parliamentary probe can be allowed and corrective and punitive steps can be taken to remedy the situation and book and punish the manipulators and wrong doers. Let us hope that the Government may not flinch from doing its duty in this respect. The concessions and assistance proposed to be given to the industry and trade may be expected to help the productive activity and the economy. But would they help? Would they achieve these objectives? For industrial development, the emphasis is placed on capital only. There is nothing to help the workers and the officers. The labour is not favoured in any way. The interest on their provident and pension funds is reduced. It is proposed that enterprises that employ more than one thousand workers only would be subject to Industrial Disputes Act and not those that employ one hundred workers. The Government wants to dilute the Contract Labour Protection Act. And the Government wants to introduce such other modifications in labour laws of the country and call these attempts as labour law reforms. We do not understand how they can be recognised as labour law reforms. They are bound to frustrate the officers and workers in the industry. By creating conditions in which the officers and workers in the productive activities become frustrated and feel disenchanted, how can the industrial development take place? For developing industry, agriculture, services and other capabilities in the field of production, in the present times technologies of advanced nature are required. What has been provided in the budget for this purpose is too little and too inadequate. Some provisions are made for helping the electronic and genetic science and technology developing activities. But what has been done is not sufficient. It is not going to help. In fact, massive efforts, large sums of money, clear planning and futuristic vision are required. They do not appear in the design of the Government, which would not help our country to come on par with the advanced countries of the world. In this situation, we would be scared of WTO, the competition and the challenge that the globalisation flings at us, and they would not be properly faced by us. These are the reasons because of which the targets of the rate of growth in industrial development are not met and industrial development is showing signs of sluggishness. Next, I come to development of agriculture. The fact that the agriculture in India is the mainstay of our country’s economy and that, around 70 per cent of its population depends upon it, should never be forgotten. Like industry, it needs capital, new technologies, advance planning, irrigation on a massive scale, electricity, education, transport, which should not be missed. What is done in these respects through the Governmental designs and plans is not satisfactory. What is the quantum of credit facility provided for the agriculturists in the country? It is in the vicinity of Rs.50,000 crore only. Is it sufficient? Can it meet the requirements of this sector? If not, why steps are not being taken to provide it on a higher scale? The capital investment in agriculture is on sliding slope. It affects irrigation, and facilities, mostly required for agricultural development. The banks are asked to provide 18 per cent of the total loan given by them to the agriculturists. The public sector banks have given loan to the extent of 14 to 15 per cent. The private sector banks have given loan to the extent of four to six cent. The NABARD was asked to get the funds to the extent of 18 per cent from the banks and provide the same to the agriculturists. That is not done satisfactorily. Why is this aspect not studied by the Government and effective steps are not taken? Is it because those who are in the farming activity are a silent lot, unagitating, ungrumbling, given to content, and cooperative in nature? The Government wants to collect income-tax from NABARD, National Housing Bank, Small Industries Development Bank, as it does from other banks. Is it necessary? The Government has reduced the tax on the income of the lotteries. And it wants to reduce the funds available to these banks which want to help agriculturists, housing activities, and small scale industry. This approach cannot be appreciated by the people who are not strong and wealthy, to whom many concessions have been given, to which we may not object. But we are certainly sour because those who need the help most are denied the assistance and favourable planning by the Government. Now, I come to deficit. The Government is worried about the deficit. It should be. It wants to reduce it to acceptable levels. It should do it. We cannot object to their desire to reduce it to the acceptable level. But how does it want to do it? The means it wants to use for doing it are disinvestment, reduction of subsidies and downsizing the Government. These are the routes it wants to follow to reach at its goal of reducing the deficit. These means are discussed more than other means which can be used. While doing so, it is forgotten that it is not sufficient to rely upon them only, that it is necessary to adopt other means and methods to achieve the objective. It is forgotten that these means are of negative nature and they are not of positive nature. It should not be forgotten that disinvestment without proper policies, the disinvestment of profit-making enterprises, the disinvestment of enterprises which are meant to provide impetus to development in other fields, not only to earn profit, cannot help, cannot reduce the deficit. But this is exactly what the Government is doing. And so, we warn the Government, that this approach with respect to disinvestment to help some, may not be useful to many and to the economic activity in the country. Let us use the strength and capacity of the private sector to the fullest. But, let us not in the process, reduce the strength and capacity of the nation which appears to be happening because of the wrong routes followed in this respect. The subsidies are provided to help the weaker sections in the society, to encourage the common man in many fields, to do economic and social justice. The benefits that arise out of them may not be visible in the shape of profits earned, and in such other shapes. But, they help to reduce frustration, they help to maintain law and order in the society, they help to get the citizens to join the mainstream of economic and social development. Steps to rationalise them, to see that they reach the targeted groups should be welcome. But steps which are relevant to other developed countries, and which are not in tune, with the Indian realities, need not be taken at the instance of others, who do not grasp the Indian realities. It is fortunate that these arguments appear to have been heard to some extent, and drastic plans to reduce subsidies insensitively have not been drafted and implemented. Let us hope that the common man may not be forgotten. Let us hope that the only relevant and correct policies are made and implemented in a just manner. The downsizing has become the mantra of the Government which it chanted every now and then. It is good that some Members of the establishment do not fully subscribe to downsizing, and subscribe to rightsizing. We have to help those who do not have properties, those who want to live honestly, by working and earning their bread, if not butter with the sweat of their toil. If we threw them out of their jobs, we would not have done justice to them. We have enough things to do, to develop our economy and our country. They should be properly employed, and continued in jobs which are meant to help us in all respects. Instead of doing it, if we allow retrenchments, and throwing out of jobs of the employed, we would be inviting trouble for ourselves. Let us not forget this. There are many things which can be done to reduce the deficit. The capacities which we have established in many fields are not used to the extent to which they can be used. The water in the irrigation dams is not used to the extent to which it can be used. In some cases, only 40 per cent of it is used. The power plants work at 40 to 50 per cent of their capacities in some parts of the country. Certainly they can be made to function at 60 to 80 per cent of their capacities. In some parts of the country, the theft of the power has risen to 40 to 50 per cent of its production. Certainly, that can be stopped. The projects which are in the process of being established are suffering from cost overruns and time overruns. About 200 projects are suffering from the cost overruns, to the extent of Rs.43,000 crore. Certainly steps can be taken to reduce the cost and time overruns. The FCI suffers from huge damages to the grains stored in their godowns. We are told that the damages suffered are to the tune of 10 per cent of stocks stored. There are many such other things of this nature, which can be handled to enhance production, and to reduce the deficit. The deficit can be reduced only by producing more and in a cost and time effective manner, by using modern means of management, by enthusing the people, and by employing the advanced technologies, by entering into new areas of production and development, by having a vision which is bold, and useful. Instead of doing these things, instead of governing properly, if the Government wants to reduce the deficit by following artificial, negative means, it would not succeed. It would sink deep in the quagmire of economic inefficiency, deficit and popular frustration of the people. Let the Government govern properly and jointly. The task of reducing the deficit should be done by all the Ministries and the Ministers of the Government. It cannot be done by the Finance Ministry or the Finance Minister alone. If it is done through the efforts of the Finance Ministry and the Finance Minister alone, what would be achieved would not be of lasting nature, would be very artificial, would be unjust to the weak and meek and the non-speaking ones. Let the task of reducing the deficit be done by all the sectors in the society, by all the Governments in the country on the principles and designs suited to the country and not through borrowed principle or as per the views of others who do not know the nature of the ethos of the Indian people and the realities of the country. We may hear them, heed their views, but we should not be cowed down by their designs and plans. Individuals, shops and industries of small and big magnitude plan their development, their activities in the future to save time, energy and material that are available to them and to produce the best possible results of acceptable nature by adopting correct directions, policies and principles. The plans need not restrict the activities of the individuals, enterprises and Governments. They can give directions, they can encourage cooperation and coordination in economic activities. If planning is a must for the development of an individual, that of a shop or an industry, it is certainly a must for the development of a State or a country. Therefore, a negative attitude towards it should not be allowed to develop. It should be properly used, it should be based on modern principles and realities, but it should not be made ineffective. In the past, Approach Papers were prepared by the establishment and discussed by the Government and the representatives of the people before they were used to make the Plans. Now, they are not properly discussed by the Government also. They are not certainly discussed by the legislators. The plans were discussed by the Government and the legislatures and the people at large extensively before they were adopted and implemented. They were discussed in NDC meetings also. Now, that does not appear to be happening. The Mid-Term Appraisals of the Plan performance were also presented to the Members of the Legislature. They were discussed. The Government could be held accountable for its non-performance or wrong performance in different fields. But that also does not happen these days. The targets fixed by the Government in Plans are not adhered to. They are reduced. The expenditure figure becomes fatter and fatter, but the achievement figures become leaner and leaner. Only a few days back, in this House we were told that the target of the Ninth Five Year Plan of producing 43,000 MW of electricity was, in the first instance, reduced to 28,000 MW and, in the second instance, it was further reduced to 20,000 MW. This is happening in all fields, whether it is in the field of irrigation or agriculture, or industry or social sector. We do not get an opportunity to discuss them in the House, which is not correct, which is counter-productive for the Government and for all of us here. Therefore, we should discuss the Mid-Term Appraisal of the Ninth Five Year Plan, if not in this Session, at least in the next Session. We should discuss the Approach Paper prepared for making the Tenth Five Year Plan and the Tenth Five Year Plan itself. The discussion of this nature would hold a mirror to the Government and the country to see their performance and would help to take corrective steps in time. If we do not do that, the performance of the Government may be dismal in all fields. The rate of growth of economy may not reach the target figures in agriculture, industry, technology development, social sector and the deficit would increase and not get reduced. These are, unfortunately, not the directions, which are visible through the efforts of the Government. Therefore, all the good that is tried to be done is buried under the debris of all the misdirections, wrong policies and inactions of the establishment. Let us, therefore, be imaginative, innovative, bold and hardworking in the fields of production, just and considerate in the field of distribution and treat the mighty and weak in a manner which would help them and not get inclined only to the fortunate ones. Let us not forget that capital is necessary, but it is not only ingredient that can bring about economic and other kinds of development. Let us remember that good quality of governance and management, the new ideas and technologies and the cooperation and enthusiasm of all those who are involved in productive and other activities are needed. Let us hope that this would be brought about, and this would be done and would happen. I would like to make only two more points and then, I would conclude my statement on the Finance Bill. The acrylic fibre industry is required to pay higher taxes. This is an industry that helps the common man in the country. Now, imposing the higher taxes on acrylic industry will not help those who are in the industry. I would request that this increase in the taxes on this industry should be reduced. The last point that I want to make is that the trusts are asked to publish their accounts in the newspapers. Some modification in this respect has been suggested by the hon. Minister. But that is not sufficient. If the accounts are required to be published in the newspapers, the cost of publishing these accounts would be enormous. The very fact that the accounts are known to unscrupulous elements in the society will create problems for those who really want to use the instruments of trusts to help the society as a whole. MR. SPEAKER: Is it about the NGOs? SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : The trusts are required to publish their accounts in the newspapers. Now, it is said that if the income of the trust is beyond Rs. 1 crore, they would be required to do so. Even Rs. 1 crore for a trust activity these days is not correct. The Parsee Trust and many other trusts and educational trusts have requested that this kind of requirement should not be there. A gist of it can be published. The certificate given by the auditor and things like that can be published. I think, this request from them deserves our attention and it should be accepted. I again request that persons like those who are in the acrylic fibre industry or small-scale industry should be helped. An impression has already gone and if they are not helped, it would be strengthened that we are inclined to help those who do not really need the help. And we are not trying to help those who need the help. The acrylic industry is a small-scale industry. It helps the poor people especially those living in the villages and using the raw materials there. These things should be done. श्री चिन्म:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाानन्द :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाामी (जौनपुर) : माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मैं पहले आपको धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद देता हूं कि आपने मुझे २००१-२००२ के फाइनें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल पर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलने का अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार प्रदान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। मुझ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन के :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारि:ण्;ठ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा जो कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन के अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी रह चुके हैं, माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पाटिल जी का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाण हो चुका है। मैं अपनी चर्चा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाु:ड्डड्ढ; करने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले श्रद्धे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांत त्रि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल्लूर जी की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने रखना चाहूंगा जिन्होंने कहा है कि जो लोग जमीन खोदते हैं, जमीन उनका :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाार :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहन करती है। ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ही जो रचनात्मक आलोचना है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको हमें :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहन करना चाहिए। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके प्रति हमारा एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकारात्मक द्ृ:ण्ि;टकोण होना चाहिए। :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाद :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही हमारे इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन की महत्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापूर्ण :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है। मैं पाटील जी के उन :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचारों को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुझा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा के :ड्डड्ढ;प में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता हूं क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि उन्होंने कहा कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां कई :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों पर चर्चा होनी चाहिए, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन का :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााता:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारण चर्चा का होना चाहिए। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाच है। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पाटील जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन के अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष थे, त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा चर्चा का एक :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााता:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारण रहता था और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाच है कि चर्चा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें निकलती हैं। कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कम दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पर चर्चा करने का अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार मिलना चाहिए। मैं कांग्रे:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लोगों को धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद देता हूं कि उन्होंने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पर अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक जो चर्चा रुकी हुई थी, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो दूर करने में :द्ृद्धड्ड;पीकर महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा के ह:द्ृद्धड्ड;तक्षेप को :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीकार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पर चर्चा की। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी चिन्ता थी कि दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पर चर्चा नहीं हो पा रही है और :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा और चर्चा के :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तो हम लोग, जो जनता के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा, जनता की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानाओं को लेकर आते हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो अपनी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रख :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेंगे और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाोधन :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी करना चाहें तो लोगों के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचारों को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुन नहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेंगे। लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह क्षण :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा महत्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापूर्ण है। जहां :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह गतिरोध :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा दु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;र्ााग्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ापूर्ण था :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;पीकर महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का ह:द्ृद्धड्ड;तक्षेप और कांग्रे:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पार्टी की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझदारी ने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मामले का हल निकाला और आज हम इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर चर्चा कर रहे हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए कांग्रे:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पार्टी के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन के प्रमुख होने के नाते हम आपको :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद देते हैं। जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ने प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था, मैं नहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग की ओर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट को लेकर कोई आपत्ति उठाई गई हो। प्रा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा: :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी लोगों ने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट की तारीफ, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाराहना की थी, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां तक कि एक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग जो अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक उपेक्षित रहा है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह था ग्रामीण लोगों का :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग, खेतीहरों का :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग, खेती करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले मजदूरों का :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा था जो आम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में छूट जाता था, उधर ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान नहीं दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाता था, लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान कृ:िण्;ा की ओर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। हमारे मित्र :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाून्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकाल में कृ:िण्;ा उत्पादन की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों को लेकर चिन्ता कर रहे थे। लेकिन हमें इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका अनु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा है, हम एक कृ:ण्;ाक परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार में पैदा हुए हैं, हम जानते हैं कि कृ:ण्;ाक की क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कठिनाइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां होती हैं। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका उत्पाद के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल गेहूं, धान नहीं होता, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत कुछ पैदा करता है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी आमदनी के :द्धठ्ठद्दद्वद्ृ;ाोत उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके द्वारा उत्पादित फल, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;जी और दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारी जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाज फ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाल होते हैं। आज तक के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल गेहूं की फ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाल को ही एक उत्पाद माना जाता था, अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा फ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालों को उत्पाद माना ही नहीं ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी चिन्ता नहीं की। लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापक चिन्ता की गई है कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह हम फ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालों और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हिद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ज:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के उत्पादन को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुरक्षित रख :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकें, अपने क्षेत्र में उनके रख-रखा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकें। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते दर पर कर्ज उपल:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ध कर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााने की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान की ओर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो की गई है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर छूट :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी देने की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की गई है। कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमांत कृ:ण्;ाक, जिनकी तादाद पूरे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में लग:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाग २० प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात है, जो छोटा खेतीहर है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल फल, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;जी का उत्पादन करता है, आज उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अपने उत्पाद को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुरक्षित रखने के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका उचित मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मिले, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था होनी चाहिए। अगर उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रखने की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की गई है तो उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके उत्पाद का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाही मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मिले, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इंतजाम होना चाहिए क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो उत्पाद ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो होते हैं जिनको लम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा तक रखना मु:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;कल होता है - न फल रखे जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं न :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;जी रखी जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती है। ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति में उनके :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापणन का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी उचित प्र:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान्ध होना चाहिए। होना तो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह चाहिए कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार खरीद करे और ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा इंतजाम करे कि उनके :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापणन के लिए रेल माध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ामों का उप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कृ:िण्;ा उत्पाद :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााजार में आते हैं त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते होते हैं लेकिन एक ही :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा में जहां छोटे-छोटे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााजारों में :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाक रहे होते हैं :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााजारों में इनकी कीमतें :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा होती हैं। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा खेतों में आलू की पैदा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार होती है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी कीमत मु:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;कल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो एक रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा डेढ़ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो किलो होती है लेकिन उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दिल्ली और मुम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाई के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााजारों में १०-१२ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो किलो :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाक रहा होता है। ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति में अगर उनके परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहन का इंतजाम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी चिन्ता की गई है, तो अच्छा होगा। अगर उनके परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहन की चिन्ता, जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी की गई है :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेगी तो मैं नि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता हूं कि छोटे, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमान्त कृ:ण्;ाक दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने आने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली चुनौती का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामना कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेंगे। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा कर रहे थे तो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने दो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी चुनौति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां थीं - एक गुजरात के :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूकम्प ने दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा को हिला दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था, दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने एक अप्रत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट आ ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था, पूरा प्रान्त हिल ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था। पाटील जी परचित हैं, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा उनके क्षेत्र लातूर में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूकम्प आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति उत्पन्न हुई थी, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा जानते हैं। मैं :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी अपने एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांत के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ देखने के लिए :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था। गुजरात की त्रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ादी उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांकर थी। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांकर त्रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ादी का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामना करने के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार नहीं थी, कोई :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्ती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा इंतजाम नहीं था। लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े हुए उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट में :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाालीनता के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामान्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा अधि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाार दो प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात का लोगों पर लगा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल जन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाह:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आपदा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो निपटा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की जनता इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद की पात्र है कि अपनी गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजूद :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी, मुफलि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजूद :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट को उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने अपना :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझा। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी प्रान्त ने, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी जनपद ने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााझेदारी न की हो, ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ में नहीं आता। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााझेदारी की और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामना कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट हमारे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने है, जो एक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;लू.टी.ओ. द्वारा ला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हुआ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट है, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीज द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं लोक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पाटिल जी अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष थे। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीज :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था, आज :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृक्ष :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानकर ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा है। आज :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह हमारे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने एक चुनौती :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानकर ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा है। एक अप्रैल, २००१ हमारे लिए एक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी चुनौती का दिन है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दिन हमारे लिए एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट का दिन :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दिन हमारे लिए :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारदान का दिन :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है। हम जानते हैं कि जिन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुओं पर प्रति:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान्ध लगा था, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह प्रति:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान्ध हट ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के लोग अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां अपनी चीज :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोच :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेंगे। हम जानते हैं कि छ: :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा की अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधि हमारे लिए काफी थी, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें हमें तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाारी करनी चाहिए थी, मुका:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाला करने की हिम्मत जुटानी चाहिए थी। पाटिल जी उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी चिन्ता कर रहे थे, लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा चिन्ता के लिए छ: :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा तक हमने क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा हमने उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोज पर ह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ताक्षर कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो थे तो हमें पता था कि ६-८ :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े हुए हैं, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति हमारे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोगी। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा छ: :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा पहले हमें :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात मालूम थी, त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा अपनी आर्थिक नीति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में जो तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाारी हमें करनी चाहिए थी, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापक ढंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नहीं की, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी का नतीजा है कि आज :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा उत्पन्न कर रहा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा। लेकिन मेरा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा है कि जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ने प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानाओं को देखते हुए उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो निपटने का एक कारगर उपा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा दिखाई प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ता है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाच है कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााइज कम होना चाहिए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ारकम ढांचा, जो अनुत्पादक खर्च :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाता है, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी चिन्ता पाटिल जी ने की, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा खर्च :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ता है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा खर्च को, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके परिणाम में कोई नतीजा नहीं निकलता है, कोई उत्पादन नहीं होता है, जो अनुत्पादक खर्च है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको कम करने की चिन्ता होनी चाहिए। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो खर्च कम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोगा। जहां छंटनी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात को आपत्तिजनक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाता:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पाटिल जी ने, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहीं कुछ रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुझा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो होते कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हम इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा खर्चे को कम कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं तो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा कारगर होता। उन्होंने खर्चे कम करने की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कही। मैं नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोदन करना चाहूंगा कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;र्ााग्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ही रहा है कि दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की आजादी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद नौकरी को ही रोजगार मान लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। नौकरी कोई रोजगार नहीं होती है। हम लोग जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पू:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;र्ाी उत्तर प्रदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आते हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां एक गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा गं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाई का आदमी था, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह क:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा था, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका नाम घाघ था, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने कुछ :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें कही थीं। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने कहा था, "उत्तम खेती, मध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाान, न:िण्;ाद्ध चाकरी, :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाीख निदान"। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अच्छी खेती होती है, दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे नम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार पर व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार होता है, ती:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे नम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार पर नौकरी होती है, लेकिन नौकरी को ही इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा ने रोजगार मान लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। जो खेती करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले थे, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नौकरी की ओर, जो व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार करते थे, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नौकरी की ओर, जो उद्योग में थे, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नौकरी की ओर, जो कुटीर उद्योग में थे, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नौकरी की ओर चले ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा नेता गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आते हैं। हम जहां :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो चुने जाते हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा का क्षेत्र है, जहां पैदा हुए हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा का क्षेत्र है। आज गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा के लोग खेती नहीं करना चाहते। खेती उद्योग है, अच्छी फरटाइल जमीन उनके पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा है, लेकिन लोग खेती नहीं करते। दु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;र्ााग्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह है कि :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्षा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी दु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;र्ााग्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ापूर्ण रही कि जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो-जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्षा में डिग्री :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ती गई, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो-:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लोग परम्परागत उद्योगों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हटते ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो और नौकरी की ओर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ते ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। नौकरी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कौन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाूगिरी की :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;कूल में अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापक हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो, चपरा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो, कहीं दफ्तर में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाू हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी को जी:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका मान लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह जी:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका नहीं है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह एक व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ति के लिए जी:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती है, लेकिन रा:ण्;ट्र जी:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका के लिए एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट ही है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधा नहीं है कि नौकरी को रोजगार का प:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मान लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पाटिल जी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही कह रहे थे :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाद, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो नौकरी को ही रोजगार की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कह रहे थे। मैं कहना चाहूंगा कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा आ ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान्ध में परि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादले और लोग अपने ढंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रोजगार की तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाारी करें। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की जिम्मेदारी रा:ण्;ट्र की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामृद्धि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुनि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत करना नहीं है। रा:ण्;ट्र की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामृद्धि की :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाात्रा में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाह:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग तो कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती है, लेकिन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कोई ई:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार नहीं है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कोई :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाग:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाान नहीं है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कोई दाता नहीं है, जो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी दूर करने की जिम्मेदारी ले :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती है। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी दूर करने में :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह मदद कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती है, लेकिन दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी दूर त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा होगी, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा का हर आदमी अपनी गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी दूर करने के लिए अपने ढंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो प्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा करेगा और अपने ढंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इन्तजाम करेगा। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह अपने ढंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो प्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा होगा, त:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी नौकरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों पर नि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ारता खत्म होगी। जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो-जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी नौकरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ार्ती खत्म होगी, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो-:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रोजगार का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट कम होता जाएगा और लोग उत्पादकता की दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ते जाएंगे। जो छंटनी का निर्ण:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी खर्चे में कमी करने के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी नौकरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में कमी करने की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ को एक अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार देगा, पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ जगाने के लिए। पाटिल जी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन के ही नहीं, दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्वान लोगों में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो एक हैं। हम जानते हैं धर्म, अर्थ, काम और मोक्ष :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ होते हैं। अर्थ एक पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ है। अर्थ पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ प्राप्त करने की मजदूरी नहीं है, एक पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह जगाना होगा कि हम क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों नहीं अपनी जी:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका को :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ां अर्जित नहीं कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते। क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हम अपने परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार का पो:ण्;ाण प्राकृतिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों प्राप्त नहीं कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही कारण है कि अगर हमने पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ को महत्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा होता तो हमारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों की कमी न होती। आज नदि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है। आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;च:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा है कि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली नदि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है। ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा खत्म हो रहे हैं, उनको कालोनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादल रहे हैं। ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा कालोनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान रही हैं और नदि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान रही हैं। हम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाांधों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पानी क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा लेंगे, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा निर्मित हो रहे हैं। अगर हम धरती को रिचार्ज नहीं करेंगे। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा है जहां :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृक्ष लगाना पुण्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का काम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझा जाता था। आज :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृक्षारोपण का अ:िद्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान चलाकर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा उद्दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा में हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाफल नहीं हो पा रहे हैं। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजह क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृक्ष लगाना :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमारे पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ के हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो में नहीं, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों का दोहन करना हमारे पु:ड्डड्ढ;:ण्;ाार्थ के हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो में नहीं है ? हम धरती को माता कहते थे। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोद में कहा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है--पुत्रो अहम् माता पृथ्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाी, पुत्रो अहम् पृथ्:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ामान। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा धरती के हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पुत्र हैं। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमारे :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां कुछ :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाालक हैं जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोरे उठते हैं और धरती को प्रणाम करते हैं। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामुद्रे :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ड्डड्ढ;ण: नमे। प:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ात:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते मंडल:, :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;णुपती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा: नम: नम:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते। धरती को मां :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझने की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाना :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ती तो हम धरती के प्राकृतिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों का दोहन नहीं करते, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल्कि प्राकृतिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामृद्धि के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान:द्ृद्धड्ड;पति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां पैदा करते। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमारे एक मित्र :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कह रहे थे। मैं नहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा पर दी जाने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली छूट कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लिए होती है। अगर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात ला:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाान्:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात होता है तो ९० प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो लोग ला:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाान्:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात होते हैं, जो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा के कारखाने चलाते हैं। क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों नहीं जै:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाकी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा खादों का हमने प्रोत्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााहन दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों नहीं गो:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार की खाद को प्रोत्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााहन दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। अगर हम जै:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाकी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा खादों को प्रोत्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााहन देते, न के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल जै:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाकी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा खाद के द्वारा धरती की उ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ारा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्ति :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ती, उत्पादकता :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ती, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल्कि उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ गैर पारम्परिक र्जा के नए :द्धठ्ठद्दद्वद्ृ;ाोत :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाक:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ात होते। हमने उधर ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान नहीं दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। हम के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल पारम्परिक र्जा पर नि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ार करते रहे। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ामें एक पहल हुई है, एक रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता दिखा है, जो काम किए गए हैं, उनकी मैं आंख मूंद कर प्र:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा नहीं करता। मैं खुली आंखों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो उनकी तारीफ करना चाहता हूं और जानता हूं कि उनमें जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें कही गई हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोधक हैं। एक दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा दे रही हैं कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मंदी के दौर में ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पूरा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा मंदी का :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाकार हो रहा है, दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा को आर्थिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो उ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारने के लिए कुछ खतरनाक काम, कुछ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााह:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाक कदम उठाने प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेंगे। मैं जानता हूं :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामृद्ध :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााजार है, :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूख मरी नहीं है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह जिंदा है। लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूख को हम कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी के हाथ में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाौंप दें, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह हमारी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूख का :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाो:ण्;ाण करे :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह नहीं होने देंगे। हमें उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामानांतर एक व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था करनी होगी और :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कृ:िण्;ा ही ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा क्षेत्र है, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके द्वारा हम उनका रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता रोक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं, दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारी कोई और व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था नहीं है। हम व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार में, उद्योग में त:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आगे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ पाएंगे, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा कृ:िण्;ा के क्षेत्र में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामृद्धि होगी। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा का कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान आत्मनि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ार होगा। अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष जी, मैं जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा क्षेत्र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आता हूं अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां ३७२ गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हैं जहां पर जाने के लिए कोई रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता नहीं है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क छो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; दीजिए, कच्चा रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं है। मीलों लोग चलकर जाते हैं। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचा जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की ५३ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल की आजादी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों में जाने का रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता नहीं है। धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद है प्रधान मंत्री जी को और :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी को, जिनकी नजर उधर गई। अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;थापना के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क की अहम् :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूमिका होती है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। एक हजार की आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाादी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा और कई जगह ५०० की आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाादी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों को जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने के लिए प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाई गई है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह एक :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाांतिकारी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना होगी। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो न के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारों को रोजगार मिलेगा, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल्कि लोग अपना उत्पाद :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मंडि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों तक ले जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेंगे, जिनकी उनको आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है। पे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाजल के क्षेत्र में हम कितने अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागे हैं कि अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में पानी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट है। पानी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी एक ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत है कि आज पीने का पानी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी लोगों को उपल:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ध नहीं करा पाए हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए पे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाजल को प्राथमिकता देनी होगी और पे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाजल के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी प्राथमिकता देनी होगी। :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ जमीन के अंदर पानी को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाए रखने को प्राथमिकता देनी होगी। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ आ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामान :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जो पानी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाता है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह पानी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोकार न जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोची गई है और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में उन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाके लिए कहीं न कहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांरक्षण दिखाई प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ता है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए लगता है कि चाहे आ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामानी पानी हो, चाहे जमीन का पानी हो, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई के पानी के :ड्डड्ढ;प में :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाजल के :ड्डड्ढ;प में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादलने का इंतजाम रखा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो उच्च :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्षा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा माध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ामिक :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्षा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा चाहे अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ांगठित क्षेत्र के खेतिहर मजदूरों की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हो, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाकी चिंता इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें की गई है। जहां उच्च :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्षा के लिए मेधाएं :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाटकती फिरती थी, उनको कहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांरक्षण नहीं मिलता था कि कहां :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो, कहां उच्च :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्षा के लिए जाएं, ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति में पहली :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा में नजर गई है। आज अगर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो चाहे तो १५ लाख रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो तक उनको कर्ज दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है और धीरे-धीरे :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा नौकरी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा अपना धंधा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा अपना व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा करेंगे तो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााप:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं। अगर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में पढ़ना चाहते हैं तो ७.५ लाख रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है और चार लाख रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो तक तो उनके लिए कुछ नही रखा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए कोई जमानत की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत हो। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह माध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ामिक कक्षाओं में पढ़ने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामान्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा और गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाच्चे हैं, उनको :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाौ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो महीना :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाता के :ड्डड्ढ;प में :द्ृद्धड्ड;कॉलर:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाप के :ड्डड्ढ;प में देने की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कही गई है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्षा के क्षेत्र में व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापक परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्तन होगा और मेधाएं आगे आएंगी, उनको पढ़ने का अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार मिलेगा। अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ांगठित क्षेत्र का मजदूर आज तक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े कारखानों में काम करता था और :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ानें थी, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो उनकी ल:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ाई ल:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;कर उनका अधिकार प्राप्त कर लेती थीं लेकिन खेती में काम करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले खेतिहर मजूदर, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी रोजी-रोटी क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा तो क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आंधी तो क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी तूफान के कारण जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी छुट्टी हो जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा करती थी और :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाुखमरी का :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाकार होता था, लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी राहत दी गई है। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कहा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था हो गई तो उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााठ :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद जिंदगी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ार मेहनत करने के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाौ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा महीना पें:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान की तरह मिलता रहेगा। १३५३ hrs. 

(डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह प् ाीठा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीन हुए) 

इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह महिला :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्तीकरण की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कही गई है। महिला एक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी र्जा है। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा र्जा की निरन्तर उपेक्षा होती रही है। हम उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा र्जा को अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ नहीं पा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो और आज उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा र्जा को जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने का, जगाने का काम :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:िद्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ान्न :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं के द्वारा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। नि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत ही महिलाओं को इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल मिलेगा और महिलाएं दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की रचना के काम में आगे आएंगी। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांगठन की चुनौति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामना करने के लिए जो तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाारी दिखाई प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ती है, जो मनो:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल, जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकल्प :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्ति दिखाई प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ती है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह हम अमल में लाएंगे और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके द्वारा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांगठन की जो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी चुनौति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां हैं, उनको हमें रोकना होगा और उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हम अपने दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा को प्र:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात नहीं होने देंगे। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह जो पेटेंट का मामला है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी एक अलग इंतजाम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााका:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादा डा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ारेक्टरेट :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो लोग :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठकर हमे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में जो उत्पादित :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुएं हैं, उनको कोई और पेटेंट नहीं करा ले, उन पर कोई और क:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;जा न कर ले, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इंतजाम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। हम जानते हैं कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचना प्रौद्योगिकी के क्षेत्र में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने जो पहल की है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको हम एक उदाहरण के द्वारा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं। द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल पहले इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत का हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल १५ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; का था लेकिन द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद आज ६००० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; की हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोदारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ी है। ६ अर:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा का हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी उपल:हिद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ध नहीं है। मैं जानता हूं कि राजको:ण्;ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा घाटे के नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांत्रण में जो काम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी को मिली है, आज :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी मुद्रा का जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ांडार है, खाद्यान्नों के मामले में एक आत्मनि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ारता प्राप्त हुई है। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह अचानक नहीं है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके पीछे एक :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना है, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकल्प है, एक द्ृ:ण्ि;ट है, एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ है और मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता हूं कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोत :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा नीति के प्रति अपना उदार द्ृ:ण्ि;टकोण अपना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाूझकर इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मामले को आगे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो तो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत आगे चलकर इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में आर्थिक द्ृ:ण्ि;ट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो न के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल आत्मनि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ार हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल्कि अत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाधिक प्रगति कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि हम जानते हैं कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमाएं कितनी अ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाांत हैं। आप देखिए कि प:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चमी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा में जो हो रहा है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह हो रहा है और अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पू:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;र्ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा पर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाु:ड्डड्ढ; हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा मेरी मान्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाता है कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अलग-अलग द्ृ:ण्ि;टकोण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो देखा जा रहा है लेकिन ताई:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाान का अन्तर्रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकरण हो रहा है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तालीमानी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााजि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा पूरी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा पर कहीं न कहीं :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ार उठा रही है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांग्लादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी अ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाांत हो गई है। अगर रक्षा की पूंजी नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाई जाती है तो ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति में :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां तैनात :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ापाहि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के मनो:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल को का:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाम रखना, उनको आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक हथि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार दे पाना, उनको आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधन दे पाना :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा नहीं होगा। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौज्ञानिक उपल:हिद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ध:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के क्षेत्र में माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रधान मंत्री जी ने कहा था - "ज:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाान, ज:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान" के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ "ज:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाज्ञान" को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा जाना चाहिए और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । "ज:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाान, ज:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान" का नारा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत पहले लाल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहादुर :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;त्री जी ने दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीच काफी लम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीत ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर कुछ काम नही हुआ, लेकिन प्रधान मंत्री जी द्वारा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ात्ता :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाालने के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें अन्तर आने लगा और आज हम अन्तरिक्ष :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाज्ञान में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी एक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत महत्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापूर्ण :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूमिका नि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााने में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाफल हो रहे हैं । आज हम :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा की छठी ताकत हो गए हैं । अन्तरिक्ष :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाज्ञान और परमाणु क्षेत्र में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाफलता पाई है । लेकिन मैं चाहूंगा कि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में जो प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान किए गए हैं, उनको ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान में रखते हुए, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौज्ञानिकों का ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान कृ:िण्;ा उत्पादों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाने के लिए, कुटीर उद्योगों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाने के लिए और छोटे उद्योगों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाने के लिए तथा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनो को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाने और प्राकृतिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांरक्षण के लिए होना चाहिए । उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा में अगर काम होगा, तो नि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने जो चुनौति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां हैं, उनका :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामना करने में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाफल होंगे। अगर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी राजको:ण्;ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा घाटे को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ारकरार रखने में काम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा हुए, तो मुझे :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा है कि आगे आने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा में राजको:ण्;ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा घाटे को कम करने में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाफल होंगे । :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह द्ृढ़ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकल्प का:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाम रहा, तो नि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो उन्हें :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाफलता मिलेगी । इन :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;दों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ, मैं एक अंतिम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कह कर अपनी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाप्त क:ड्डड्ढ;ंगा । :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह धन और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधन हमारे नहीं है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा परमात्मा के दिए हुए हैं । ई:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार के दिए हुए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों के प्रति हमारा द्ृ:ण्ि;टकोण ईमानदारी का हो, तो हमारे पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कोई कमी नहीं रहेगी, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि धन पर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी का अधिकार नहीं होता है । धन परमात्मा की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्पत्ति होती है - ई:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ामिदं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ात्िंकचिन्द जगत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जगत तेन व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकृन :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाुन्जीथा मा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाृध:क्:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्ृिद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद धनम् । धन कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ापौती नहीं है और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ापौती होनी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं चाहिए । ११० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; डालर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत का धन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााहर के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौकों में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ता जा रहा है । :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है । धन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां का, जमा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां है - :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ापौती के कारण ही जमा है । धन पर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी का अधिकार नहीं होना चाहिए । रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में पैदा हुए राजापृथृ ने कहा था - :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ातम्रि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोत जठरं तत्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ात्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां हिदेहिनाम । जितने में पेट :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ारता है, उतने पर ही व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ति का अधिकार होना चाहिए, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अधिक मैं अधिकार नहीं मानता हूं । जहां इतनी ईमानदारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ारती गई हो, जहां अर्थ के प्रति इतना ईमानदार द्ृ:ण्ि;टकोण अपना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हो, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा आर्थिक द्ृ:ण्ि;ट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :ड्ढह;ा:ण्;टाचार का :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाकार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानें, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के लिए दु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;र्ााग्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए आर्थिक नैतिकता, आर्थिक आध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाात्मिकता और आर्थिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकल्प का द्ृ:ण्;टकोण हमारा होना चाहिए । मनु ने कहा था - प्रातरोत्था:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा अर्थ कामा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ानु चिन्त:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोत । :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोरे उठकर जहां धर्म का चिन्तन करना चाहिए, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहीं अर्थ का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी चिन्तन करना चाहिए । हमारे :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां अर्थ का चिन्तन नहीं हुआ है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए अनर्थ दिखा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी दे रहा है । :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर नैतिक और ईमानदारी का अनु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान होता, तो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :ड्ढह;ा:ण्;टाचार और चोरी की :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति न पैदा होती और हम एक दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा की द्ृ:ण्ि;ट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नहीं देखते । एक दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे को :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक की नजर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नहीं देखते । आज एक :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााता:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारण :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाने ईमानदारी का, नैतिकता का और मिल कर काम करने का, तो नि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत ही हम दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा को आत्म-नि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ारता की ओर ले जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेंगे । इन :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;दों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ आपने मुझे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलने के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद । श्री :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोध रा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा (:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागलपुर) : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मुझे अफ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाो:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा है, मैं :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक, २००१-२००२ का कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामर्थन नहीं कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता हूं, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह घोर जन:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी है, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी है और मजदूर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक, अन्तररा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मुद्राको:ण्;ा और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुरा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा निगमों के इ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाारे पर पूरी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मंत्रीजी द्वारा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूमंडलीकरण, उदारीकरण, निजीकरण जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो खु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूरत आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ढका हुआ है । :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ारा कनक घट जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा है । 14.00 hrs. 

इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोने के घ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;ा ही :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ारा हुआ है। :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत की करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों जनता, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामुदा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान, मजदूर, कर्मचारी, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुनकर, अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जाति ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां जनजाति के लोग हैं और करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लोग हैं जो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की हर तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रक्षा करने के लिए अपने खून-प:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीने को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ारा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार लगाते आए हैं। उन तमाम लोगों ने आज इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा चीज को मह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि जो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट है उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो महंगाई दी है। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाुखमरी की हालत पैदा की है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीच :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोकारी, दरिद्रता और प:द्ृद्धड्ड;त-हिम्मती का आलम पैदा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। आज इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात का ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा देने में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामर्थ है? कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के द्वारा आत्महत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााएं क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों हो रही हैं? :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुनकर क:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक आत्महत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा करते रहेंगे? हमारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ो नौज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाानों ने जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ापना देखा था, उन्होंने अटल :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहारी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााजपे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी जी का लालकिले के प्राचीर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुना था, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो आज :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोकार दर-दर की ठोकरें खा रहे हैं। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा लेकर आते हैं कि एक हजार मजदूर कर्मचारी रखने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले कल-कारखाने के मालिक को अधिकार होगा कि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा चाहें त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा उन्हें :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहाल करें :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा निकाल कर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााहर करें - "हा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार एंड फा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार" :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह गज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा की नीति है। आज हमारे जिन नौज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाानों ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी उम्मीद :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा जनता पार्टी और एनडीए की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के लिए :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाोट दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था, उन्होंने कहना :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाुरु कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है- "हमदर्द :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझा था जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाही अपना दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मन निकला।" जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हमदर्द :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझा था :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाही उनका दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मन निकला और जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर रह:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ारका थकी था :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाही :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा राहजन निकला। तहलका, :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार घोटाला, रिला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आदि घोटालों की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााढ़ ने आज :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह जाहिर कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि ४५ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल की जो कांग्रे:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की हुकूमत थी, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इन्होंने रिकार्ड तो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। घोटाले और :ड्ढह;ा:ण्;टाचार में इतनी पारदर्:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाता दिखाई कि करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों लोग आ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो घू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा लिए और दिए जा रहे हैं को लोग खुली आंखों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा देख रहे हैं। महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, आज तमाम लोगो को इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात का अह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हो रहा है कि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुनकरों के लिए नहीं, हमारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों मेहनतक:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों के लिए नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल्कि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े पूंजीपति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के लिए है। कार्पोरेट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौक्टर के जो लोग हैं, उनके लिए है और उनके हितों की रक्षा करने के लिए है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए उन्हें ५५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए की छूट दे दी गई है लेकिन जो लोग लघु :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचत करते हैं उनके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााज की दर को घटा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कितना :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा प्रहार गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों पर कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। उनके प्रति कितनी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी हमदर्दी दिखाई ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जाहिर होता है कि जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा प्रणाली के माध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों को आ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में अनाज और दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारी आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामग्री मिलती थी उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा प्रणाली को आज ढहाने का काम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है। आज राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारों को :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह जिम्मा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अनाज खरीदें। आज जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा प्रकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद में कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााल पर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी पक्षों द्वारा आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााज :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुलंद की ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके हमारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की दर्दनाक हालत पूरी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जाहिर हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी है। :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार, महारा:ण्;ट्र, आंध्रा, कर्नाटक, केरल और तमाम अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की हालत आज :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादतर हुई है लेकिन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की तरफ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो उनके लिए कोई आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान नहीं, कोई हमदर्दी के :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;द नहीं हैं कि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा आत्महत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा नहीं करेंगे। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंकों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कर्जा लेते :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाक्त उनके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ धांधली होती है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के द्वारा उनका :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाो:ण्;ाण कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाता है और उनकी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारी जिंदगी की कमाई ना:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा हो जाती है क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि उन्हें उनकी फ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाल की कोई कीमत नहीं मिलती है। हमारे करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों खेत-मजदूर :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना काम के अनेक दिनों तक खाली :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे रहते हैं। कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुधार होगा। उनकी मां-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहनें आज :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाो:ण्;ाण की :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाकार हैं और अपमान की जिंदगी जी रही हैं। उनकी हालत में कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुधार होगा। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पूरी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो चुप है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए मेरा कहना है कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट आम आदमी की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ालाई के लिए नहीं है। महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के नाम पर जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें हुई हैं और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर चर्चा कल :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन में हुई और कि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;तों में अलग-अलग मौकों पर जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें होती रही हैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाको मैंने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुना है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े कल-कारखाने, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी फैक्टरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े उद्योग जो हमारी अर्थव्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था और आत्म-नि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ारता के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े प्रतीक हैं और जिन्होंने हमें :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााम्राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाादी द:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों के आगे झुकने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रोका है, आज तमाम :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ार्तों के जरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूटीओ के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने, मल्टी-ने:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने झुककर हमारी जो आत्म-नि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ारता थी उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाप्त करने की :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हुई है। जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो एग्जिम-पॉलि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी के नाम पर दर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााजे खोल दिए ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो हैं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में जो माहौल पैदा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा के तमाम उद्योग-धंधे चौपट हो रहे हैं। गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में कल तक जहां खु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाहाली थी आज :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापन्नता, अराजकता और अव्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था में त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;दील होती जा रही है। उग्र:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद, आतंक:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद, अपराध तथा कानून और व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था में जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह की :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति पैदा हुई है, 
   
   

उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह जाहिर कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि अगर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों में ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा पूंजी नहीं लगाई गई, गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों की :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुधार नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की हालत, खेत मजदूरों की हालत, का:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;तकारों की हालत और दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे तमाम त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाके के गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा लोगों की हालत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुधारने के प:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ााप्त :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधन जुटाए नहीं गए तो :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ार्फ दिल्ली को चकाचौंध करके मुम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाई और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े महानगरों में अट्टालिकाएं ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी करके :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत की गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादहाली मिटाने का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ापना देखा नहीं जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है। जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह दिल्ली के लाखों गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों पर अत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााचार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, आज ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत है कि झोंप:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;-पट्टी में रहने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले लोगों को काम दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाता, उनके रहने की हालत पैदा की जाती, उनके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााल-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाच्चों के :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का इंतजाम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाता लेकिन जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह चंगेजी और नादिर:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ााही का परिच:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने चंगेजी और नादिर:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ााही जुल्म और अत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााचार को पीछे छो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने का काम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। इतना :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा अमान:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा अत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााचार और :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाूरता का प्रद:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठर्;ान आजादी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं हुआ था। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दिल्ली और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े महानगरों में कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है। :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री कहते हैं कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी घट रही है लेकिन गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा घटा कर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताई जाती है। गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी उन्मूलन की :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं को प्र:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाी ढंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लागू नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाना, प:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ााप्त :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााधनों को न लगाना और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े उद्योग-धंधों में का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ारत कर्मचारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के हितों की रक्षा न करना इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की नीति है। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा और निजीकरण का उन्माद केन्द्र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मुख :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की जनता की हालत को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादत्तर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाने का लगातर उठता कदम है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की दि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाालि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा नीति है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामृद्धि और आत्मनि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ारता का रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता नहीं है। कहा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कि गुजरात की :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो निपटने के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढि़:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा काम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी चर्चा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन में हुई। आप :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारी प्रो:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाडिंग्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा उठा कर देख लीजिए। आपको :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तु :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति की जानकारी हो जाएगी। ३००-४०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए प्रधानमंत्री राहत को:ण्;ा में जमा हुए। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत की करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों जनता के पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो थे। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रिक्:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा चलाने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाालों, ठेला चलाने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाालों, खेत मजदूरों, ईंट-:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाट्ठों में काम करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाालों और हमारी मां- :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहनों के पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो थे। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मामले में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों ने :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमारी मदद की लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमारे :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी मेहमान को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुला कर दान लेने की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हो रही है। कहां ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हमारा आत्म:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मान, कहां ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हमारा :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:िद्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ामान। :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााढ़ के चलते :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाना:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति पैदा हुई और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लाखों लोग त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााह हुए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति जी, केन्द्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा टीम के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के मंत्री :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागलपुर और दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे इलाकों में पहुंचे लेकिन राहत के नाम पर एक पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी न देने का अमान:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा. काम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांगाल उ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा और मध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति है। राज:द्ृद्धड्ड;थान में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुखा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; के चलते जो त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााही हुई है और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार्ता:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ज़ाहिर करता है कि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की नीति आम जनता :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट में मदद करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली नहीं है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोदनहीनता, :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाूरता और निर्ममता की प्रतीक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानकर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठी हुई है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति जी, अंत में :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही कहूंगा कि हम :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझे थे कि चंगेजी खत्म हुई लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के आने के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा लगता है कि चंगेज :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़कर :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााजपा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान निकला। "जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हम दो:द्ृद्धड्ड;त :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझे थे, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मन निकला, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर रह:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार का :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकीन था, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह राहजन निकला।" 15.00 hrs 

The SSI units have to keep their accounts for four or five years. The Excise officials will go any time and ask them to dig out their accounts, and they will say, "These are the mistakes you have made. Now, you have to pay the tax with penalty." After four years, if you are asking the SSI man to pay tax with penalty, the entire profit that he has earned will go only in penalty. So, can you have a panel of auditors just like a panel of lawyers so that the accounts will be audited within one year? If any mistakes are there, then these should be rectified within one year. I have also written a letter to you three months back, but unfortunately, I have not heard anything from you. This Section 173(b) says that the person who is manufacturing the goods, has to declare what he is going to manufacture. As per the classification, the Excise people have to inform him at what rate he has to pay the tax. But for months and years together, he is not informed at what rate he has to pay the tax. After one or two years, the Excise people will tell him that on such-and-such item he was to pay 18 per cent whereas he has paid only 12 per cent, so, he has to pay the difference of six per cent tax with hundred per cent penalty. Can you not make a rule for declaration under Section 173(b) so that within 15 days, the Excise people must inform the manufacturer at what rate he has to pay the tax? This is an administrative change. I hope a person of your nature will understand what I want to say. For the last four years, any Government coming to power always talks of interests of minorities. In the House of 540 Members, we 24 MPs are in minority. The lowest number of voters in a constituency is 37,000. An MP representing that constituency gets Rs. 2 crore. The highest number of voters in Outer Delhi is 28,30,000. In my constituency, the number of voters is 27,70,000. I also get Rs. 2 crore. For the last three years, I have been writing to everybody, including the Speaker, the Minister of Finance and other Ministers concerned. But what has happened? Only my letters have been brought from one Department to the other Department. May I request you to have some more money based on the number of voters? I have given a chart also: for voters up to 15 lakh, the amount could be Rs. 2 crore; between 15 to 20 lakh, the amount could be Rs. 3 crore, between 20 to 25 lakh, it could be Rs. 4 crore and for a constituency having 25 lakh voters and above, the amount could be Rs. 5 crore. Only 24 MPs are representing constituencies having voters above 15 lakh. So, we are in minority. Can I expect justice from you so that these 24 minority MPs will be given some extra money for development? You will be happy to note that I have spent 70 per cent of my funds in the rural area. Yesterday only, I got a message from my Collector. The entire school building in the rural area was to be constructed for Rs. 24 lakh. He has given the sanction. I will be thankful to you if you can give justice to we 24 MPs by increasing the amount under the ‘MPLAD’. Lastly, I want to say that in this Budget, you have given advantages and encouragement to the agriculture sector and industries allied with agriculture. The people are quite happy. I repeat again about the 10 per cent tax to be deducted at source. Earlier, the limit was Rs. 10,000. It is my personal request and also that of my party to restore that limit up to Rs. 10,000 only. कुमारी मा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाती (अक:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ारपुर) : माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति जी, माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की मनु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाादी मान:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता नजर आती है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज के हर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग के हितों का ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं रखा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज के कुछ खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्गों और कुछ खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा क्षेत्रों का ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान रखकर :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांध में दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों की तादाद में रहने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुजन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज- अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जाति ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जनजाति, अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पिछ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग, धार्मिक अल्प:द्ृद्धड्ड;ांख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज- :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाक्ख, पार:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी, ई:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााई, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाौद्ध, जो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाादी का ८५ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात है, उनके आर्थिक डे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ालेपमेंट की तरफ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की ओर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कोई खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दिलच:द्ृद्धड्ड;पी नहीं ली गई है। १५०६ ण्द्ध. (डॉ. लक्ष्मीनारा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाण पाण्डे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पीठा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीन हुए) 

:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में इन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्गों के आर्थिक उत्थान के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;कीम्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आप लोगों ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाई हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पुरानी हैं, घि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी-पिटी हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कोई :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नई :द्ृद्धड्ड;कीम इनके डे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ालेपमेंट के लिए नज़र नहीं आ रही है। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाादी की आर्थिक पहलू के मामले में उपेक्षा की गई है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाकार है। गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी दूर करने के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की तरफ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कोई ठो:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कदम नहीं उठा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो हैं और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोज़गारी दूर करने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो आपने कोई :द्ृद्धड्ड;पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाल :द्ृद्धड्ड;टैप्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा नहीं लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो हैं ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाकि आर्थिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ोक्षण में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीकार की है कि दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोज़गारी का आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने अपने रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा एजेंडा में :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था कि हमारी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार हर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; लोगों को रोज़गार देगी लेकिन मुझे लगता है कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादे को पूरा करने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कोई ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा नहीं है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचना प्रोद्यौगिकी क्षेत्र के अला:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी क्षेत्र में रोज़गार के अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार पैदा नहीं कर पा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कारण :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोज़गारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रही है और दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े पैमाने पर अपराध हर क्षेत्र में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहे हैं। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा लोगों को रोज़गार नहीं मिलेगा और :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जूझेंगे तो अपना पेट पालने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो लोग गलत का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा करने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो मज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाूर हो जाते हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा़ही कारण है कि अपराध :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ते हैं जिन्हें रोकने के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों-अर:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो खर्च करती है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारी को दूर करने के लिए ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा धन दे, तो मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझती हूं कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मिटेगी और अपराधों पर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांत्रण होगा। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में देहातों के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कोई दिलच:द्ृद्धड्ड;पी नहीं दिखाई गई है। हमारे देहातों का :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा नहीं होगा, तो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुरा प्र:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की ७५-८० प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात जनता पर प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेगा। चूंकि मैं देहात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आती हूं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए देहातों के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में मुझे मालूम है कि देहातों की क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति है। देहातों के लिए जितनी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाएं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाती है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां नहीं पहुंचतीं और जितनी हमारी आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाादी है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी तादाद के अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाार :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं में धन का आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांटन नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाता, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो देहातों के लोगों को :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं का कोई ला:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा नहीं मिलता। जो थो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत धनरा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में दी जाती है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी देहातों के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए नहीं लग पाती है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए मेरा नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोदन है कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार को देहातों के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की तरफ ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान देना चाहिए और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में देहातों के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा धनरा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांटित की जानी चाहिए। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के हित में होगा। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में महिलाओं, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााल :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा कल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााण के लिए कोई खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था नहीं की गई है। आपने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कहा है कि हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी खर्चों में कमी करेंगे। हमारी पार्टी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी पक्षधर है, लेकिन जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हर क्षेत्र में घाटा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो देखते हुए आपकी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह घो:ण्;ाणा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ात्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाद्ध नहीं होगी। आपने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कहा है कि केन्द्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कर्मचारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा में हर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा दो प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात कटौती की जाएगी और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााज घटाने, पें:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान घटाने की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कही है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ एल.टी.:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी. पर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी दो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा के लिए आपने रोक लगाई है, लेकिन मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझती हूं कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कोई फर्क प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला नहीं है। आपने एक तरफ तो कर्मचारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों की एल.टी.:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी. पर दो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा के लिए रोक लगा दी, लेकिन दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारी तरफ नहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचा कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका प:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ाटन पर क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेगा। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा आप एक तरफ देखते हैं और एक फा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादे के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचते हैं, तो दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारी तरफ आपको नुक:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचकर चलना चाहिए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मंत्री जी ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कुछ अच्छे फै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाले :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी लिए हैं, जिनकी मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाराहना करती हूं। जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कुछ ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुएं हैं जो इं:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान की हैल्थ के लिए ठीक नहीं हैं, जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ागरेट, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी और पान म:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााला आदि के दाम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाए हैं, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह अच्छा :द्ृद्धड्ड;टैप है। लेकिन आपने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ चा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा और काफी की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कीमत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाई है जो ठीक नहीं है। आप काफी की कीमत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा दें तो चलेगा क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि काफी गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाके के लोग ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;तेमाल नहीं करते, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो चा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पीते हैं लेकिन आपको कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कम चा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा की कीमत नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ानी चाहिए थी क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीधा अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाके पर प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ता है। मेरा कहना है कि आप इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में ज:ड्डड्ढ;र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोच :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार करें। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके अतरिक्त इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों का कोई खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान नहीं रखा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। केन्द्र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का कृ:िण्;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पिछले :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा कृ:िण्;ा मंत्राल:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा द्वारा घो:िण्;ात कृ:िण्;ा नीति के एकदम उलटा है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लिए कोई :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा पैकेज की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था नहीं की है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की तरफ :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आपको ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान देने की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत है। मुझे ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा लगता है कि दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के हित में, जिन खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों की तरफ आपको :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान देना चाहिए था, उन पर आपने ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान नहीं दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादातर ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ाजनिक क्षेत्र को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोचने में लगा है। उनका निजीकरण :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े पैमाने पर कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है। हमारी पार्टी निजीकरण के खिलाफ नहीं है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि आप दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा हित में आर्थिक पहलू को ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान में रखकर, घाटे को ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान में रखकर, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी क्षेत्र में निजीकरण का फै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाला लेते हैं तो हमें कोई एतराज नहीं है लेकिन आपको निजीकरण करते :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज के उन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्गों का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान रखना चाहिए जिन्हे निजीकरण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो फा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादे की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा नुक:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान पहुंच रहा है - क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ौडयूल का:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा, :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ौडयूल ट्राइ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौक:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ड क्ला:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लोगों को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी नौकरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में रिज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान मिलता है :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा निजी क्षेत्र में नहीं मिलता। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांध में मैंने पिछले :द्ृद्धड्ड;ात्र के दौरान और कल :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमारे एक मैम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार आफ पार्लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाामैंट ने :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात रखी थी कि निजी क्षेत्र में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आप उनके लिए रिज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था करें। लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा ओर ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान नहीं दे रही। मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझती हूं कि माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मामले में ज:ड्डड्ढ;र गं:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाीरता :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचकर माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रधान मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करेंगे। आप निजीकरण दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा हित में करें तो हम उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाागत करेंगे, लेकिन हमारा कहना है कि करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों दलित, :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाो:िण्;ात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज के लोगों को, पिछ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग के लोगों को निजीकरण में रिज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान देने की कोई व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था नहीं की गई है। मेरी माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रिक्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौट है कि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रधान मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करके उन्हें रिज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान दिलाने के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में ज:ड्डड्ढ;र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचें। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा आप :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाप्त करें। कुमारी मा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाती : इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी कम्पनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों तथा पूंजी:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद को :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा राहत देकर छोटे उद्यमि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को काफी निरा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। छोटे उद्यमि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को प्रोत्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााहन देने के मामले में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने कोई ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा दिलच:द्ृद्धड्ड;पी नहीं ली है। मेरा माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही कहना है कि आपने जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें आप हर क्षेत्र के पहलू को देखें तथा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज का जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो द:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा-कुचला त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाका है, जिनको :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत है, उनके उत्थान के मामले में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कोई ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा दिलच:द्ृद्धड्ड;पी नहीं ली है। आप उनके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी ज:ड्डड्ढ;र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोच :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार करें और उनके डे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ालपमैंट को ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान में रखकर :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें कुछ अमेंडमैंट हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कुछ और ऐड हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है तो आप उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ऐड करने की को:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा करें। SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA ( CANARA ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, over five decades, successive Congress Governments had before them certain long-term objectives which were sought to be achieved by policies which were grounded in the reality of India as it was at the time of Independence, but with a vision towards which we moved decisively over the years. The mixed economy was part of it. Poverty alleviation and the challenge of dealing with poverty as a national problem was a priority. And more than anything else, the realisation that 80 per cent of our people lived in the villages, that rural India was really the India that had to be targeted, were all kept in mind when policies and programmes were drawn up. It is not a small achievement, if I may say so, in a country where more than two-thirds of the population was living in grinding poverty at the time of Independence, that over these years, we were able to get two-thirds of that population, in spite of huge population increases, to reach a level where they became part of the middle-class, and reduced the number to less than one-third, as far as poverty figures were concerned. I am not going into many technicalities because I am not an economist like we have in the House, but I must say that the economy had grown from stagnation to dynamism. The last year of the Rajiv Gandhi Government saw a GDP growth rate of 10.5 per cent. Even in the 1990s, I must say that we maintained, over that period, a growth rate of seven per cent for three consecutive years, the last years that the Congress Government was there. The Prime Minister has spoken, the Finance Minister has spoken about their target of nine per cent growth rate to be reached, or maybe higher if the Minister wishes so, but my point is that you have not been able to cross six per cent over the last four years that you have been the Finance Minister. We are told at every point that ‘whatever is going wrong is because you brought in the WTO; we are following your policy. What you started, we are continuing.’ I am sorry, this is where I wish to differ. To say that everything is because of WTO is also not correct. You have to have the capacity to be able to protect national interests, when you have the leverage and the leeway to be able to fix your own targets and to work accordingly. You had time till 2003, but you decided two years ahead to go ahead and close the options you had in 2001. We know that you had the opportunity to renegotiate bilaterally or otherwise the WTO Agreements which were going to affect our national interests, but in 2001, you closed your options. Sir, also with WTO, other countries are protecting their national interests, their own national industry and, particularly, subsidising agriculture. But the World Bank pundits around keep telling us, I have seen the reports, ‘that subsidy on food is now outdated, we need gradually to move into the open market economy’. "Survival of the fittest" seems to have become the slogan today in a country where large numbers of people will not survive market competition and not be able to meet the challenge. Sir, I do not know how much time I have, so I will try to be as brief as possible. I want to say that the NDA Government came in with a promise of a "Government with a difference". There is a lot of difference, I must say. As the saying goes in the streets, ":हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोली तो :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी, का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा पूरा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी", all your policies and programmes are opening the doors to the multinationals, to the big business houses, to investment from everywhere, while on the other hand, the slogans have all the time been Swadeshi, Swadeshi, and Swadeshi 

I do not wish to quote. But the rally of your own trade union, the BMS in Delhi has perhaps been a much stronger expression of anger of the people than the Congress has ever expressed in Parliament or outside. I do not wish to quote this. It is because this has appeared in The Hindu which is not any kind of a paper to be ignored. So, the facts must be correct. All that the president of the BMS has said is what we have been crying hoarse about all the time. Sir, I would like to refer to the basic issues. I would like to start with down-sizing the Government. I was the Minister for Personnel for five years. We made a commitment in the National Development Council about 30 per cent reduction of higher level posts in Delhi. I am glad that the Minister of Personnel is here and, I think, she also is committed to this. But we know how it works. I would like to say that on the one hand you are talking about down-sizing the Government at Delhi, but on the other hand you are multiplying the number of Ministries and Ministers. Ministries have been divided and bifurcated in order that you may give posts and positions to all the partners of the NDA Government who have to be accommodated. The Ministers are openly saying, in Press Conferences, that they have no work. There was one Minister who admitted हमारे पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आज तक एक :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी फाइल नहीं आई है, आफि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा जाते हैं, कां:द्ृद्धड्ड;टीट्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ों:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी का काम करते हैं, घर चले आते हैं। They themselves have said that they have got no work but they are just Ministers. This is the condition of your Government that talks about down-sizing the Government. I am glad that you have talked about merging of the Ministries, reducing staff and so on. Please do it by doing away with the Ministries, that are not really necessary, and with them perhaps some Ministers as well. That would, I think, set the example before you send out the people in the public sector with VRS because you are intending to down-size the establishments and because you want to send your bureaucrats home. I have no problem in that. But again, look at your double-speak. You have increased the retirement age. ६० तक रख दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।. The Government said that they would create about one crore jobs in a year. That is not happening. :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाी.आर.ए:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा. में कम हो रहे हैं, लोग घर जा रहे हैं। There has been neither generation of nor increase in employment. But on the other hand, I must say there have been multiplicity of regulatory bodies and post-retirement slots for retiring people. The retired bureaucrats either go as ambassadors, or they go to the WTO or to the World Bank. Their places are fixed even before they retire. I wish, you could show the same enthusiasm in closing down the Ministries and Departments that you are showing in winding up the Public Sector and the profit making undertakings. It is because the burden of multiplication in the bureaucracy is a dead weight on your shoulders, we would fully support you in your effort to down-size the bureaucracy. I for one have struggled for five years to implement the commitment we made. But I am sorry that it did not happen. I think, there are many Departments and many Ministries that really are not necessary when most of the subjects of these Ministries have got transferred to the States and the States are handling them totally. फि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ारीज की मनि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट्री दिल्ली में है, मुझे पता नहीं कि मनि:द्ृद्धड्ड;टर क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी दरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा के किनारे जाकर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे हैं कि नहीं। But there are still Ministries like the Fisheries and the Tribal Development. I do not really understand as to what they do.…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान):द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही मैंने एक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार पूछा था, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा मनि:द्ृद्धड्ड;टर को:द्ृद्धड्ड;टल एरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोल रहे थे कि आप को:द्ृद्धड्ड;टल एरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में कुछ जानते :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हैं कि नहीं। Sir, only yesterday we had a debate on the issue of disinvestment. I would not like to go into the whole debate again. But the reply of the Minister to the debate was shocking. Being a disciplined person and as so many other people were in front of me, I did not disturb the proceedings. The Minister was simply asked पॉलि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, अपनी पॉलि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो, डि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाइन्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्ृद्धड्ड;टमेंट के पर है कि नहीं, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका उत्तर क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा मिला?The Minister said that the policy of the Government was made known in answers to questions in Parliament. Did he mean that one must judge a policy of the Government from the answers a Minister gives to the Starred and Unstarred questions? Is that a reply from the Government in Parliament? We asked for a white paper: it did not come. We asked for a Standing Committee on Disinvestment: it did not come. We do not want to criticise the Government. Let the Government tell us what the policy is. Let that policy be circulated to us and let us see it. When we asked whether the Government thinks there was any distinction among different kinds of PSUs like profit-making ones, loss-making ones, those that were taken over by the Centre, and others, the Minister said that there was no difference among them and that they are all treated equally. He said that all of them were judged on the same yardstick whether it is BALCO, Modern Foods, whether profit-making or loss-making. We asked as to what was the difference between disinvestment and privatisation. He said that there was no difference between disinvestment and privatisation. He said that unless we gave the major share to the bidder, he won’t bid and so we have to tell them to come and take it all. त:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी तो आएंगे पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा देंगे। Is this the way the Government of India should talk about its policy on disinvestment? MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude now. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : Sir, I need five minutes. Give me five minutes of my party’s time please. I will not say anything irrelevant. I will finish as fast as possible. Very few women speak on the Budget anyway. I am just saying that the public sector has played a role. You cannot just sell it off because you do not like it or because you think you have to raise money. I feel that the time has come when the Government must look at the public sector disinvestment programme with a certain amount of transparency. Let all of us be taken into confidence. Let the Government work out a consensus and work on it. Let this not be made into a matter of eternal fight between the Government and the rest. I would like that the public sector be given autonomy, professional management capacity which they were used to. Let not just babus be entrusted with them. Let Joint Secretaries be not sent as Chairmen of Air India. कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी को निकाल दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, कहीं और :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाठा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा !How can they run these professionally if they are not meant to be running these industries? We may have made the mistake and you are making the same mistake. Please professionalise the public sector and see that the units which are making profits are allowed to survive. Coming to small scale sector, I am quoting what I have quoted to the Prime Minister in a letter I wrote to him. A delegation of the small-scale industry comprising women and men called on an officer in the Ministry because they were asked to meet him. Do you know what the reply of that officer was to that delegation? He said to them, "You are anyhow dying. Why are you making a noise about it? Die gracefully." This was what a bureaucrat said to the delegation of small-scale industries. I have given the name of the officer to one of the Ministers. कोई तरीका है ?Thousands and thousands of people are employed in this sector. Thousands and thousands of small people have invested their money in the small scale industry. You cannot tell them that because of the opening up of the economy, they should close down and go home. I am going to give you two or three points of your Budget which have upset us. You have imposed four per cent excise on candles. Candle-makers are small people. On footwear costing less than Rs.125 you have imposed four per cent excise. १२५ रुपए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कम की जो चप्पल पहनते हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो कौन हैं। श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : आज निकाल दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। श्रीमती मार्ग्रेट आल्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा : निकाल दि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा? I am sorry, I was not present. I am glad that you have removed it. Fourteen items have been removed from the list of items reserved for the small-scale industry. On the other hand, excise duty on soft drinks has been brought down from 40 per cent 32 per cent. On cars it has been brought down by eight per cent. This is done to keep the sections which are opinion-makers, happy. :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाॉफ्ट डिं्रक पीने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले लोग हैं, जिनको खु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा रकना है :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाहरों में। People involved in small-scale industry are suffering. I think the Minister has a duty to protect them by giving them the support they need. I want to make a mention of the definition of ‘rural industries’. जो :ड्डड्ढ;रल एरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा डेफिने:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान है। An area with less than 20,000 people is defined as a rural area for this purpose. Women’s units making, for instance, detergents in small groups do it in the rural areas. They pay no excise. But, because the population has increased in those areas and crossed 20,000 mark, they are now told that they no longer are rural based, that they have come within the municipal limits, and so that they must pay excise duty. How can they survive in their work without paying this? Today, because the population has increased, they say, "you must pay the excise". So, the women had to close their units. It is not their fault if the population of the area has gone up and the municipality has been declared under some notification. So, I am appealing to the hon. Minister to kindly look into this aspect in order to protect the small scale women’s units. Sir, as far as the workers are concerned, in regard to the Industrial Disputes Act , I must say that the hon. Minister, in his Budget Speech, is taking the decision on matters which are before the National Labour Commission. How can he do that? These issues of the Industrial Disputes Act and the Contract Labour Act are all before the National Labour Commission. But the hon. Finance Minister, in his Budget Speech, has given a decision that :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह अमेंड होगा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह चेंज होगा, इंड:द्ृिद्धड्ड;ट्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाल ए:द्ृद्धड्ड;टे:िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ालि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ामेंट हजारों :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्क:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा हमारे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने आएंगे, दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे नहीं आएंगे। The National Labour Commission is looking at all these issues. To add to their miseries of being sent home, he has also now reduced the interest rates on their life savings, in the provident fund. MR. CHAIRMAN : The hon. Member’s time is over. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : Mr. Chairman, Sir, you are ringing the bell and making me nervous. But my last point is about the public distribution system the food security. We struggled for years not to beg for food so that this country could be fed with the Green Revolution. But he has increased the prices of food grains for the poor in the PDS with the result, people are not able to buy them. Stocks are rotting, eaten by rats and rodents. They cannot export it, as their production cost is too high. The stocks are lying. They do not have godowns. Now, when the new crop comes what will they do? They will transfer it to the States. एफ.:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी.आई को हम डि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंड करेंगे। आप लोग :द्ृद्धड्ड;टेट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा में करिए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;टेट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी गोदाम नहीं है। अचानक हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;टेट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा को नहीं कह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं कि आप जादू की छ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो गोदाम प्रिपेअर करिए, इधर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। They are transferring the responsibilities to them. They do not have the infrastructure or the capacity to procure. Farmers are committing suicide. No stocks are being procured. It seems that there is a method in the madness कि एफ.:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी.आई को तो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांद करना है, पीडीए:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा को खत्म करना है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी न कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कंफ्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूजन :ित्हद्धद्ृ;ाएट करेंगे तो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांद हो जाएगा। I am speaking about the tears of the poor who will go hungry because of this mismanagement. I am not saying, "give it to the rich". Let the PDS go to the BPL families. Give it to the under poverty line families. Sir, they should not wash their hands and shirk their responsibility of giving food to them. About the food which is rotting, I would suggest that they should introduce a scheme, of "food for work". They should distribute food in the drought-hit areas. :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत अच्छा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाण कर रही हैं लेकिन कठिनाई :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह है कि पांच :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजे :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाोटिंग होनी है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी को उत्तर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी देना है। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

 श्रीमती मार्ग्रेट आल्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा : :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह महिलाओं की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है। Sir, they have chosen 650 blocks for womens empowerment. हमें पता नहीं है कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह प्रोग्राम क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा होगा? Two yeas ago, they merged all the programmes and made it the Swarna Jayanti Programme. But nobody knows, what is swarana about it, nobody knows, what is jayanti about it. The programme does not exist. गाइडलाइन्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा इ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू नहीं की हैं, इम्पलीमेंटे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान नहीं हो रहा है, कोई नहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता है कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा प्रोग्राम है। आज एक न:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा एम्पॉ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारमेंट का कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, कमेटी ऑन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाूमन एम्पॉ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारमेंट की मैं तो चे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ारमैन हूं, कोई नहीं पूछता है, कोई कं:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालटे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान नहीं है, कुछ नहीं है। ६५० :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;लॉक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाूमन एम्पॉ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारमेंट के हैं। Sir, can he, promise that women Members of Parliament will, at least, have one or two blocks in their constituencies selected as the pioneer blocks where we, the women Members will do something and show to them what needs to be done. Tell them to use our services as we will do something out of this. Mr. Chairman, Sir, you have said that I should conclude, and I shall conclude now though I have a lot of things to say. But lastly, there is one thing which I would tell to the hon. Finance Minister. Their Economic Survey says that "in the last six years, poverty has come down in the country by an astounding 10 per cent -- from 37 per cent to 27 per cent" This is some magic! But the Minister of Finance has not read the key given in The Economic Survey document, which is very important. I am quoting from pages 193-194 of your own document: When your own survey says that the methodology has changed and you cannot compare, you have said that it has come down. I would therefore request the hon. Minister of Finance to clarify this point. Poverty has not come down as you have claimed justifying why your investment has gone down. I think, it is not proper to mislead the country in your Budget speech when your own Economic Survey gives the key explanation that the methodologies are different. I thank you for your patience sir and I hope that the hon. Minister would look at the problems of the weaker sections and protect them. १५४२ hrs. (श्रीमती मार्ग्रेट आल्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा पीठा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीन हुईं) 

 

श्री प्रका:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा मणि त्रिपाठी (दे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा) : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक पर चर्चा हो रही है और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह चर्चा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत ही महत्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापूर्ण है, लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अपने आप अकेले में नहीं देखना चाहिए। हर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट एक मील का पत्थर होता है । मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने पांच:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा चौथा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है और उनमें हमें एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूत्र दिखाई देता है । २८ फर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारी को ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मत्री जी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले थे, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके पहले और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद में लोगों के दिमाम में जो आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ांका:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों थी । एक तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इनके पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाकल्प था कि एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट देकर, हमारी जो अपोर्चुनीटिज हैं, उनको पक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;कर आगे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़े :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुरक्षात्मक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट लेकर, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुरक्षा का क:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाच पहनकर, करों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाकर चुपचाप किनारे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों । :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत करते हुए, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा इन्होंने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट का " क" :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााग खत्म कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और " ख" :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााग :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाु:ड्डड्ढ; कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, तो मुझे :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद है, इन्होंने कहा था - मैं थो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा पानी पींगा और अपना प:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीना पोछूंगा, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद काफी लोगों के प:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीने छूटेंगे । लेकिन उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद जो उन्होंने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा था कि करी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा-करी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा हर त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाके केलोग :द्ृद्धड्ड;त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ध रह गए, एकाएक खु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा हो गए । मैं कहना चाहता हूं, चाहे :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान हो, चाहे :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापारी हो, चाहे उद्योगपति हो, चाहे घरेलू महिला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों हो, हर तरफ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााज आई - :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल्कि मैं पढ़कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुनाना चाहता हूं, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कोई :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा जनता पार्टी का अख:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार नहीं है, इकोनोमिक टाइम्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा ने लिखा - "Shotgun Sinha-II Fires Round-II Reforms" :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात मैं :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी की तारीफ के लिए नहीं कह रहा हूं । मैं द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल और राउन्ड-टू-रिफार्म की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कह रहा हूं । मैं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कह रहा हूं, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें हर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट एक मील का पत्थर होता है । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मामले में मैं आपको ज:ड्डड्ढ;र :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाधाई देना चाहता हूं, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि चाहे मार्केट हो, चाहे प:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ानल टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हो, चाहे कृ:िण्;ा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हो, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी को राहत दी गई है । हमने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुना है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कहा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों का ख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााल नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, कृ:िण्;ा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में ख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााल नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । मेरे अपने :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार में आपने घरेलू उत्पाद का १,१६,३१४ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए राज:द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा की प्राप्ति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां की हैं, जो कि घरेलू उत्पाद का ४.७ पर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोंट है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात: प्रदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों में जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों, तो घाटे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ेंगे। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो करने के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद अगर देखा जाए तो हम :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कहेंगे कि जो लक्ष्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा इन्होंने अपने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्रजेंटे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान में कहा था कि राज:द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा की :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृद्धि होनी चाहिए, अधिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अधिक लोगों को व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा होना चाहिए। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मार्ग्रेट आल्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा जी ने कहा कि व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कम हो रहे हैं, मैं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात क:ड्डड्ढ;ंगा। व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारलीकरण होना चाहिए और ईमानदार करदाता का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मान होना चाहिए, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो तीन-चार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें आपने कही थीं। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा चीजें हो रही हैं। के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ापे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मान इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में नहीं हो रहा है, जितना होना चाहिए। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इंकम टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा अधिकारी टेक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ापे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ारा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार :ित्हद्धद्ृ;ामिनल की तरह ट्रीट करते हैं। टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ा एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ कर २.३ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; हो गए हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए मैं आपको दो:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाधाई देता हूं लेकिन अगर ठीक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कोई खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा अ:िद्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान चला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए कि टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मानित व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ति हमारी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाो:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाटी में माना जाए, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके कि मैं टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा देता हूं तो २.३ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;, पांच करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; एक-दो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल में हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मान का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूखा रहता है। आप कोई न कोई :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मान का तरीका निकालिए। राज:द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा की :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृद्धि के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका उद्दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा नहीं हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो उद्दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा होते हैं, लेकिन खा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तौर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो राज:द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा की :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृद्धि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी अपने आप में एक आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा होता है और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े कई तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो मिलते हैं। मैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह मानता हूं कि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत में ग्रामीण क्षेत्र, कृ:िण्;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााहुल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा क्षेत्र है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक ग्रामीण और कृ:िण्;ा क्षेत्र का :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तेजी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नहीं होगा त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक उन्नति नहीं हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;र्ााग्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा रहा है कि हमारे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो फाइनें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मनि:द्ृद्धड्ड;टर हा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ार्ड :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पढ़े हैं, मैं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके खिलाफ नहीं हूं, लेकिन उनकी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोच इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात पर आकर टिक जाती थी कि अगर हमारा व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार, उद्योग :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ेगा तो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ेगा। मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ालकुल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहमत नहीं हूं, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि अगर एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल हमारा अनाज कम हो जाए तो आपका :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारा व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार अपनी तरफ रह जाएगा और हम :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहीं के :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहीं ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े रह जाएंगे। मुझे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ में नहीं आता, मेरे ख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााल में इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में अगर कोई चीज देखने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली है तो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही है कि कृ:िण्;ा को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत महत्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। हमें ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा लगा कि ६४ हजार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; फार्म :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौक्टर को दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाेडिट कार्ड के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाता:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था और :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादा है कि तीन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल में हर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान को :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाेडिट कार्ड मिल जाएगा, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका इं:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोरें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हो जाएगा। इं:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोरें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान घ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाराते हैं, अगर :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाेडिट कार्ड के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका इं:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोरें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हो जाए तो अच्छा रहेगा। महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, २५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए ग्रामीण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क के लिए, केन्द्र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार द्वारा घो:िण्;ात प्रधान मंत्री :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना की आलोचना हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती है, लेकिन मेरे ख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो केन्द्र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आज तक कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में इतनी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी धनरा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा ग्रामीण क्षेत्र को जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने के लिए नहीं दी गई है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह हमारा दा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा है। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मणि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ांकर जी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोले कि कहां है, कहां खर्च हुई है। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हालत है। हर चीज में खर्च की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात नहीं है, ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा नहीं कि २५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए जल्दी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जल्दी हम कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी को दे दें और कहें कि हमने अपना काम कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा जाता है और :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां पहुंचता है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााप:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आता है तो उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें कुछ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा लगता है। हम कहते हैं कि थो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा लगे लेकिन एक परिपक्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा, मेच्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाौर तरीके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका का:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाान्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए तो २५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए ग्रामीण क्षेत्र को जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने के लिए :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत अच्छी धनरा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा है, कुछ और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा लगे, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी आप चिन्ता मत कीजिए। ८० हजार गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्युतीकरण की जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है, हम कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मुंह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा को :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्युत न मिले। हम इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मत के नहीं हैं कि पुरानी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने कुछ नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। लेकिन २००१ के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद अगर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्युतीकरण नहीं होता है तो हम राजनेता कहलाने के ला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक नहीं है। हमारे ही दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में कुछ क्षेत्र तो आगे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहे हैं और कुछ क्षेत्र उतनी तेजी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आगे नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहे हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा चीन और कुछ अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी है लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा की तरफ हमें अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान देना प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेगा और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामानता को दूर करना प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेगा। खाद्यान्न और अर्थव्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था के क्षेत्र में कुछ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुधार आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुधार की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा क्षेत्र में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की आलोचना :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत होती है। प्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााज महंगा हो जाए तो दिल्ली की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार गिर जाती है और अगर आलू :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता हो जाए तो कहा जाता है कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा करे, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह आत्महत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहा है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंकिंग के क्षेत्र में जो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूली आप नहीं कर पा रहे हैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा नहीं हो पा रही है तो जमीनी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाच्चाई को देखते हुए इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो और प्र:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ााली :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाने की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी और :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत चलती है लेकिन :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी का दर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााजा खोलने का काम जिन्होंने कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाही आज :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करें तो अच्छा नहीं लगता है। एम्प्लॉएमेंट जैनरे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान का मतल:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी नौकरी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नहीं है। अगर फल का व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ता है तो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी एम्प्लॉएमेंट जैनरे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान का हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा है। मेरा पक्का :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार है कि कृ:िण्;ा, लघु उद्योगों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा एम्प्लॉएमेंट जैनरे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है उतना :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी नौकरी देकर आप नहीं कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते हैं। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा और निजीकरण के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मुझे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत कहना था लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए मैं के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कहूंगा कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट है जो हर त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाके को प:द्ृद्धड्ड;ांद आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक को हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मति :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा करें तो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा अच्छा रहेगा। श्री हरी:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ांकर महाले (मालेगां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा) : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पर चर्चा हो रही है और मैं अपने :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार रखने के लिए :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा हुआ हूं। मेरा आक्षेप तो मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा के पर है क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि उन्होंने ही ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा औचित्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ांग कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा करने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले उन्होंने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार घो:ण्;ाणा की है कि कंपनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों और व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के पर जो कर लगे हैं :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो उन्हें कम नहीं करेंगे, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए कालाधन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीलिए मेरा मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा के पर आक्षेप है। मैं एक उदाहरण देना चाहता हूं कि ४० :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल पहले इंग्लैंड में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री ने औचित्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ांग कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत करने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री श्री ह:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू डालटन ने इ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानिंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;टार के पत्रकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कहा, जो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ागरेट पी रहे थे, कि आज चाहे जितनी :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ागरेट पी लो लेकिन कल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह महंगी हो जाएगी। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुन कर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह पत्रकार तुरन्त अपने दफ्तर चला ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और अख:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार में छाप दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कि तम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााकू के पर टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ जाएगा और :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ागरेट महंगी हो जाएंगी। उन्होंने जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट लीक कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लेकर उन्हें इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;तीफा देना प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी परम्परा के अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाार :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;तीफा देना चाहिए। अर्थ मंत्री ने रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकरण के लिए द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हजार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए देने का :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था लेकिन के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल ढ़ाई :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाौ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए दिए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ाजनिक क्षेत्र के उद्योगों का निजीकरण करने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले लोग उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार ले लेते हैं जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो घाटा और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ जाता है। जितने :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी प्रॉफिट मेकिंग उद्योग थे उनका आज निजीकरण हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है और घाटे :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले उद्योग :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांद हो गए हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात ठीक नहीं है। एनरॉन को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने काउंटर गारंटी दी थी। महारा:ण्;ट्र :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की द:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा खरा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा है। ७ रुपए ७५ पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूनिट में ग्राहकों को :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजली मिलनी चाहिए। आपने एनरॉन के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ जो करार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रद्द करें। पिछले दिनों अख:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार में आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था कि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों ने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट की प्र:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा की लेकिन आज कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान, कामगार लोग, आदिम जाति और जन जाति के लोग :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूखे मर रहे हैं। अर्थ मंत्री ने इनके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में कुछ नहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोचा। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी एक माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी प्र:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा कर रहे थे लेकिन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में हमें ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी कोई :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात दिखाई नहीं देती है। गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा आदमी और गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तथा अमीर और अमीर हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट की क:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;दों में निन्दा करता हूं। मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;तीफा देना ज:ड्डड्ढ;री है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही मेरी मांग है। (इति) 

 

श्री दे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोन्द्र प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा (झंझारपुर) : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मैं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांक्षेप में अपनी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात का जि:त्हद्धद्ृ;ा करना चाहूंगा और चाहूँगा कि माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री उन :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ांकाओं का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाधान करें ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा देंगे। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधाओं के अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा उपा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीमा पर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो पूंजी की कमी दूर करने का प्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है तथा कोल्ड :द्ृद्धड्ड;टोरेज के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो ऋण हेतु आपने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में ७८ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो का प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह अच्छी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है। लेकिन कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की मौलिक ज:ड्डड्ढ;रतों की तरफ जो ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाना चाहि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो था, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह नहीं दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट का आधार इकोनोमिक ग्रोथ ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा़ादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा प्राथमिकता पर होनी चाहि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह मुख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा चिंता :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में द:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;र्ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी गई है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूखे और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााढ़ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचाने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी दीर्घकालिक :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना का जि:त्हद्धद्ृ;ा नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को कृ:िण्;ा उत्पाद को ला:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाकारी मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मिलें, चाहे गन्ना हो, गेहूं हो, धान हो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तिलहन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा दलहन हो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कामर्:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाल :त्हद्धद्ृ;ााप्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हों, उनकी तरफ :द्ृद्धड्ड;था:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी तौर पर कोई ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान नहीं दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचाने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो मामूली :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा प्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है लेकिन जो कृ:िण्;ा-जनित :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तु:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों हैं, जो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ध:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ल्ले :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आ रही हैं. उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ल:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू.टी.ओ. का जो प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुरक्षा प्रदान करने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कोई गारंटी :द्ृद्धड्ड;प:ण्;ट :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो दिखाई नहीं देती है। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी जो पहला चरण १९९१-२००० गुजर ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, आने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले २००१-२०१० तक का जो द्विती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा चरण है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों हैं, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाता:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके पहले के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल इतना ही कहा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा उदारीकरण को द्विती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा चरण में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत मु:द्ृद्धड्ड;तैदी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लागू करना है। क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा करना है? पहला चरण ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ही चला ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा़ा? इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें एग्रीकल्चर प्रोडैक्टि:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाटी का :त्द्दद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हुआ है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह मैं नहीं कह रहा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह आर्थिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ोक्षण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकेत कर रहा है। चूंकि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कम है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो मैं :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तार में नहीं जांगा लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाही है कि एग्रीकल्चर प्रोडैक्टि:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाटी में :त्द्दद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हुआ है। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कृ:िण्;ा उत्पाद के मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में गिरा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाट आई है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह पारदर्:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाता है कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को उनके उत्पादन- गेहूं, चा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल, गन्ना का उचित दाम नहीं मिल पा रहा है। कारखानों में निर्मित :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुओं के दाम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाही है कि हम एन.डी.ए. के पार्टनर हैं, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अपना :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांमर्थन दे रहे हैं और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाह:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागी हैं लेकिन ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कहेंगे तो इतिहा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हमें क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी माफ नहीं करेगा। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति जी, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान के ट्रैक्टर का दाम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहा है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान जिन कृ:िण्;ा उपकरणो का उप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग कर रहा है, उनके दाम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहे हैं। कारखाने की हर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तु का दाम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहा है। फर्टिलाइजर, कीटना:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक द:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां जो कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;तेमाल करता है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके दाम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहे हैं। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान की उत्पादन लागत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रही है लेकिन कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान द्वारा उत्पादित :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुओं- गेहूं, गन्ना, धान, तिलहन ,दलहन और कामर्:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाल :त्हद्धद्ृ;ााप्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा का मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा घटता जा रहा है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों पर दोतरफा मार प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रही है। इरीगे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान पर टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहा है। जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा एरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा में :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई नहीं होती, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां पट:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान लगाता है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान के घर क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा पैदा होता है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह दिखाई दे रहा है लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहारिक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात नहीं है। मैं :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;त:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाकता :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताना चाहता हूं, आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों और तथ्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताने में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा लगेगा। मैं फिर इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात को दोहराना चाहता हूं कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों पर दोतरफा मार प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रही है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी का नतीजा है कि खेतिहर मजदूर को रोज़गार का अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार नहीं मिला तो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाहरों की तरफ :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााग रहा है। गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े पैमाने पर खेतिहर मजदूरों का पला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ान हो रहा है। क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो रोकने के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कोई :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना है? :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, मुझे एक :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ांका है, जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाधान मैं माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो चाहता हूं और :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह है कि क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कृ:िण्;ा नीति और उद्योग नीति में कोई तालमेल है, जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी.डी. रे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाो कम हो रहा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कारण है? मैं एक उदाहरण देकर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताना चाहता हूं और अकेले एक राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का नाम लूंगा। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो मेरे पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी.डी. रे:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाो के आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े हैं, लेकिन मैं उनका उल्लेख कर के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन का ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा नहीं लेना चाहता। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन को ज्ञात होगा कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा रही है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा घटा रही है। मैं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताना चाहता हूं कि :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार में नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा घटा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्पूर्ण दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में कृ:िण्;ा में :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ार्फ १२ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा रह ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। कृ:िण्;ा में लगे लोगों की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी घटाई जा रही है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह अद्:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाुत है। नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा १२ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात और कृ:िण्;ा में लगे लोगों की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा २० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में नहीं कही है, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल्कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कृ:िण्;ा नीति के अन्तर्गत :द्ृद्धड्ड;प:ण्;ट की गई है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में ७६ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात लोग प्रत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष और अप्रत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो खेती करते हैं। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल.की परि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाा तो अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामान्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा हो गई है। रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कृ:िण्;ा नीति में इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा परि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाा पर ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान नहीं दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा प्रतीत होता है। महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मैं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में कह रहा था। :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी.डी. का रे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाो २४ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात रह ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह अलग :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है कि आर.:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.आई. की गाइड लाइन है कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुदूर और पिछ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े क्षेत्रों में ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा खर्च करना चाहिए, लेकिन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह रे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाो २४ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात रह ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। पहले चल रहा था कि ६० और ४० के अनुपात में होना चाहिए और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाार जो राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा जितना जमा करेगा उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ६० प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए, लेकिन उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो २४ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। मैं माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पूछना चाहता हूं कि क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार की जनता पर अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार नहीं प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेगा। मैं तो कहना चाहता हूं कि :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार ही नहीं, कोई :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा होगा, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाातल में जाएगा। माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने ठीक कहा है कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह उनका दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारा चरण होगा। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौकेन्ड फेज में रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कृ:िण्;ा नीति की ही प्रतिछा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में दिखाई गई है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए कहना चाहता हूं कि कृ:िण्;ा नीति में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी तीन :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान्दुओं पर ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा जोर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। पहला तो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह है कि कृ:िण्;ा को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी उद्योग और व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा होगा कि जो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कृ:िण्;ा की परम्परा है, जो कृ:िण्;ा का हमारा परम्परागत ढांचा है, जो हमारी का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ौली है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका दर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााजा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान्द हो जाएगा। नं:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार दो, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा कृ:िण्;ा को उद्योग और व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाएगा तो कृ:िण्;ा में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारी पूंजी नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा करने की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत होगी। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका मतल:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह होगा कि मल्टी नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल को इन:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााइट कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए, :द्ृद्धड्ड;थानी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा और निजी नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा को घटा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए। महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, हमारे राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आते हैं। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुद्धिमान हैं और अपनी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुद्धि और :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोक का इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;तेमाल करते हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए मैं उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो प्रार्थना क:ड्डड्ढ;ंगा और नम्र नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोदन क:ड्डड्ढ;ंगा कि ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा होगा तो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कृ:िण्;ा में पूंजीपति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों की घु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ापैठ नहीं होगी? आजादी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही एक क्षेत्र ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचा हुआ था जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें पूंजीपति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों का दखल नहीं था। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीलिए अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की आत्मनि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्डर्;ारता और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्प्र:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाुता की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कुछ लोग करते रहे, लेकिन क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा कर पाएंगे। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू.टी.ओ. की मार की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करेंगे। जो मैं कह रहा हूं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें तथ्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा हैं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें फैक्ट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हैं। इन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों का मैं जि:त्हद्धद्ृ;ा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीलिए कर रहा हूं। महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, ती:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कही गई है कि कृ:िण्;ा में तकनीकी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह तकनीकी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;द :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुद्धिमानी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो निकाला ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कृ:िण्;ा पर क:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;जा करने की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढि़:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तकनीक अपनाई गई है। मीडि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत जोर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लिखते हैं कि पूरा तकनीकी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा करना है, तो आई.टी. का रि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाोल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में लाना है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाका परिणाम तहलका के :ड्डड्ढ;प में दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा ने देखा है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी का कुपरिणाम है। हम तकनीकी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के खिलाफ नहीं हैं, लेकिन तकनीकी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा, :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की तरह होना चाहिए। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचना प्रौद्योगिकी का :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाुग चल रहा है, तो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको इतना डि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोलप कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए कि पूरी ट्रां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ापेरें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी हो जाए। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पूरी ट्रां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ापेरें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तहलका के मामले में जनता के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने आ गई, तो फिर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों चिल्लाती है? :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दौर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी पूरा होगा और कोई न कोई रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ता निकालना होगा। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा का जो मान, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्मान और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांप्र:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाुता है :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानी रहनी चाहिए। महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कृ:िण्;ा में तकनीकी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा करने के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहाने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो मल्टी नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल कंपनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां हमारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में नहीं आ जाएंगी। मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताना चाहता था, लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा नहीं है। मैं आपके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ार्फ इतना ही कहना चाहता हूं, माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा फूड मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे हुए हैं - करगिल, जो एक :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी कंपनी है, :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे अनाज के :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ांडार को पाने का प्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कर रही है। मैं :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी मल्टी नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल कम्पनी की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कर रहा हूं। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा नहीं है, नहीं तो मैं इन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों का जि:त्हद्धद्ृ;ा करता और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताता कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा-कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हमला हो रहा है। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी छोङ दीजिए । मैं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलूंगा। मैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां न कहकर उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अपनी :द्ृद्धड्ड;टैंडिंग कमेटी के थ्रू कहता हूं । मैं अपनी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमाओं को जानता हूं। मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कहना चाहता हूं कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा परिपेक्ष्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा में :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्तमान :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट का :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ले:ण्;ाण होना चाहिए। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्तमान :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ार्फ दो मुद्दों पर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा जोर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। एक जोर :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पूंजी उपल:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ध कराई जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। मतल:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा ठेके की खेती, कारपोरेट खेती को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका मतल:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााफ है कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें कहीं कोई :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााहर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो एनाले:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा करने की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत नहीं है। हालांकि लिट्रेचर में इतनी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हुई है कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी तर्क दे दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोगा लेकिन हम उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें जाना नहीं चाहते। हम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीधी-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाादी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करते हैं क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीधे आदमी हैं और गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करते हैं। दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारा, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कृ:िण्;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुओं के नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाात पर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा जोर देंगे। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको कम्पेन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोट कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो ? कहा जाता है कि जो ओपन मार्केट है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा क्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाांटीटेटि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा रि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट्रक्:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान उठा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें हम नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाात पर जोर देंगे। नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाात पर हम इतना जोर देंगे कि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाात में कम्पीट कर जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोगा। दुनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा के उन्नत दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों में प्रत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा अप्रत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो इतनी ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाडी दी जाती है कि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत का कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाात में कम्पीट नहीं कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेगा। आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाात की मार तो अलग है। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह मार होनी :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाु:ड्डड्ढ; :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हो गई है। मैं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका एक उदाहरण देना चाहता हूं। अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी १४२९ :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुएं जो कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोदन:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाील हैं जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें कृ:िण्;ा, टेक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाटाइल आदि अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामान हैं, उन पर क्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाांटीटेटि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा रि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट्रक्:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान उठा है। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह पालि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी १९९१ में श्री नर:िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा के जमाने में ही अख्ति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार की गई है, गैट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझौता कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। हम :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुझा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा देना चाहते हैं कि कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कम :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत में जो कृ:िण्;ा उत्पादन है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी रक्षा करने के लिए, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की रक्षा करने के लिए एंटी डम्िंपग डयूटी को ला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो, क्लोज मौनीटरिंग :द्ृद्धड्ड;थापित की जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो ताकि ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामान ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा न आ जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हमारा हिन्दु:द्ृद्धड्ड;तान डम्िंपग ग्राउंड :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए हिन्दु:द्ृद्धड्ड;तान में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाी अनाज का डम्िंपग गाउण्ड नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानने देने के लिए एंटी डम्िंपग डयूटी लगानी चाहिए। काउंटर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोली डयुटी जो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी लगानी हो, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह लगा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों और रेगुलर मौनीटरिंग तेज की जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो ताकि कोई ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामान न आ जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हमारे कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान को नुक:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान हो। चूंकि अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लिए ६१० रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो प्रति क्िं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाटल गेहूं का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामर्थन मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा त:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा हुआ है ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाकि अंतर्रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मार्केट में इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ४००-४५० रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो प्रति क्िं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाटल है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा होगा ? इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की रक्षा के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ोफ्टी गार्ड, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ोफ्टी प्रो:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाल प्रो:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजन जो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी लाना हो, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह लाना चाहिए। मैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए कहना चाहता हूं कि अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आपने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीन तेल पर ४५ आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाात ड:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूटी पर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोंट कहा है। ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू.टी.ओ. में जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााउंड रेट है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा के तहत हमें उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको ४५ पर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोंट रखना प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा। औरों में तो हम ८०,९० और १७० तक चले ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो हैं लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां हमें :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााउंड रि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट्रक्:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान को देखना प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा। लेकिन एमरजेंट प्रो:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजन है तो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा आप :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा के मंच पर इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााल को नहीं उठा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा प्रोटीने:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा चीज है। जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो महिलाओं और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाच्चों में कुपो:ण्;ाण है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको देखते हुए हमारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीन में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा प्रोटीन होता है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी खेती को डे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ालप करने के लिए इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाना चाहिए :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाानी ४५ आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाात ड:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूटी पर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोंट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आगे करना चाहिए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कम्पीटि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान के चलते :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीन की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूनिट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांद हो गई हैं। श्री दे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोन्द्र प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा : मैं मात्र दो :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ान्दुओं पर कहना चाहता हूं। मैं अधिक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा न लेकर के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल दो मिनट लूंगा। अगर आपका आदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा हुआ तो मैं अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जांगा। मैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कहना चाहता हूं कि माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी कृपा की जो :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाक :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान:द्ृद्धड्ड;पति :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूनिट को ५५ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाात दर में छूट देने की घो:ण्;ाणा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में की। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह घो:ण्;ाण २८ फर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारी २००१ को की गई और १ मार्च २००१ को रे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू डिपार्टमैंट ने :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह अधि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचना जारी कर दी कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह छूट मिलेगी। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान:द्ृद्धड्ड;पति निदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ााल:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ने १६ मार्च, १५ दिन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद एक गाइडलाइन तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार कर दी। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह गाइडलाइन इतनी जटिलता :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ारी हुई है कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीका एक्ट का जो परव्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू है, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीका एक्ट :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाक इंड:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट्री को डिफाइन करने के लिए :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना था, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीका एक्ट के परव्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााहर एक आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ारन फिटेड गेट गाइडलाइन के जरिए लागू कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ाक :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूनिट को रि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााइ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा करने का मौका नहीं मिलेगा और न ही कन्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान मिलेगा - इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए मंत्री जी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार करें। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल. के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांध में मैं इतना ही नि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोदन करना चाहूंगा कि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग का :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा है। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल. ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;टीमेट तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार नहीं करते, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार करता है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाही है। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात नहीं है लेकिन जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल. ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;टीमेट तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, हमको :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ नहीं आ रहा, ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग को है तो उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाएगा। १९९३-९४ में लक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला एक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ापर्ट कमेटी के जरिए जो नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौम्पल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो हुआ था, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाता:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था कि ३५.९७ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल. ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;टीमेट इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में है, लग:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाग ३२ द:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ामल:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा कुछ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; लोग इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी की रेखा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नीचे हैं। १९९४ के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद १९९६-९७ में तो पूरे :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााग ने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;टीमेट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो काम चला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। दो-ढाई :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल में न:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा मैजिक हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी रेखा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नीचे रहने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले लोगों की आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाादी अचानक ३६ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो घट कर २६ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात हो गई। पा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्टी ऐली:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाए:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान कितना प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात हुआ? क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा २४०० कैलोरी का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाोजन गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा आदमी को मिल ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा लोगों के लिए रोजगार के अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार खुल गए, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा लोगों की :त्हद्धद्ृ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्ति मार्किट में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ गई? कौन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा मुद्दा था जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके मापदंड के चलते नए तौर-तरीके अपना कर आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े घटा दिए गए। मुझे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ में नहीं आ रहा है कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह प्लानिंग कमी:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान ने ३६ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात को अचानक २६ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्टी ऐली:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाए:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान नहीं हुआ, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा रोजगार के अ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार नहीं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाए गए, त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों की :त्हद्धद्ृ;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्त…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :त्हद्धद्ृ;ााइटेरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादल ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। मैंने :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही कहा। श्री दे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोन्द्र प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा : मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता हूं कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर फिर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार करना चाहिए नहीं तो प्लानिंग कमी:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान के द्वारा गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो धोखा करने के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पर एक कमी:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाठाना चाहिए। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह (:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ााली) : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, दे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोन्द्र जी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल. के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोल रहे थे। आपके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलने की क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू है, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कोई :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुनने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला, :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला है? श्री दे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोन्द्र प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा : जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार में आपकी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ौल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू नहीं है।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : जो :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक ला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, हम उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके खिलाफ हैं। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट लाए थे त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाु:ड्डड्ढ; में लगा कि झामर झूमर में रीझे रे दुनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, लगा कि इन्होंने अच्छे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट की रचना कर ली। लेकिन अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ांडा फूट ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ार में कोई :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ग, पूंजीपति को छो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; कर, मल्टी नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा को छो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; कर, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान्न नहीं है। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारी का जि:त्हद्धद्ृ;ा क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों नहीं है, :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा दें? एन.डी.ए. का नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल एजैंडा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ऐंटी-नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल एजैंडा था कि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारी हटाएंगे और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारी का जि:त्हद्धद्ृ;ा ही नहीं है। आप पढ़ते, देखते नहीं हैं, :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ार्फ मेज थपथपा देते हैं, धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद, धन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााद। :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारी हटाने के लिए कोई :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी द्ृ:ण्ि;ट नहीं है, कोई चर्चा नहीं है। जो नौकरी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले लोग हैं, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान्न हैं? जो लोग नौकरी में हैं, उनके पी.एफ. का इंटर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी घटा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा लोग नाराज हैं। जो आम आदमी पेट काट कर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक में पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा जमा करता था, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इंटर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट घटा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : उनको खत्म करने दीजिए, मंत्री जी को रिप्लाई करना है। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगार और कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान की दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार तो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह है ही। … 

( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाु:ड्डड्ढ; में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाण में कह रहे थे, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा इनका राज :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना तो कहा कि द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाों में हम अनाज का उत्पादन दुगना कर देंगे। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल उत्पादन पिछले :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ११० लाख टन घट ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले ७० लाख टन घटा था। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो घटती की तरफ जा रहे हैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा दुगना अनाज करने की तरफ जा रहे हैं? इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कारण है? ज:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा जी हम:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कहते हैं कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। इंडि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा टुडे कहता है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह हम लोगों का नहीं है, :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााजपा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लाग :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला पत्र है…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह डि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढदर्;ा मत करि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ठीक नहीं है। रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद जी, आप :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां देखकर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह लिखा था कि खेती करे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाो मरे - इंडि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा टुडे ने :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह मुखपृ:ण्;ठ पर छापा। दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान आत्महत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं, अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा दुख का :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्णन क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा दुख का :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्णन क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है कि इनके राज में कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान आत्महत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहा है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन में चर्चा होती है, लेकिन उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार कोई कार्र:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााई करने के लिए तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार नहीं है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो तो पूंजीपति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के, रिला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के गुलाम हैं। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा छो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; दीजिए। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा मैं :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कहता हूं। आप :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार का पूछ रहे थे। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : उधर देखने की ज:ड्डड्ढ;रत नहीं है, आप :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां देखकर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाण पर पिछले :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा दे रहे थे तो हमारा जो पंचा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ात मद का ५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा इन्होंने रोक कर रखा था, उन्होंने कहा कि राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार एप्रोच करे तो हम :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार करेंगे। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा पंचा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ात के चुना:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा चुना:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा चल रहा है तो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा नहीं देना है? राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने आपको एप्रोच :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : उत्तर देने के लिए मंत्री :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे हैं, आप क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों उत्तर दे रहे हैं। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : इनके ग्रामीण :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मंत्री :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलते हुए कह रहे हैं कि आप लोगों ने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां चुना:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा नहीं करा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां जिला परि:ण्;ाद :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाॉडी नहीं थी, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा नहीं दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। पांच :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा में एक :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा का पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा मिल ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां १९७८ में चुना:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा हुए, एक :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा का पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा मिल ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, लेकिन चार :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा का पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मनी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो रोके हुए हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी छान:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीन हो जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो तो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ात हो जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोगा कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा की, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान की दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मन तो है ही, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार की घोर दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मन है। इन्होंने :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार का ५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा रोक कर रखा है, नहीं दे रहे हैं।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री रघुनाथ झा ( गोपालगंज ) : :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के लोग ही तो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे हुए हैं, :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के दु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;मन कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हैं। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप इधर देखकर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के जो मंत्री :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाने हुए हैं, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के तनखै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो नौकरी कर रहे हैं, :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के हितों की रक्षा नहीं कर रहे हैं, न्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं दे रहे हैं, नहीं तो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांट:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाारे के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमारे ५४ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो घटकर ४० :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद हैं, झारखण्ड :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहित मैं :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलता हूं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी हर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााग में छान:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीन की जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। कृ:िण्;ा मंत्री :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के हैं, ५००० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो न:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं पंच:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना में खर्च हुए, :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार हिन्दु:द्ृद्धड्ड;तान का द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाां हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा है, ५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो हमें मिलना चाहिए, लेकिन ५४ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो का आ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांटन हुआ है और के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल २५ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो मिले हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार दरिद्र नहीं होगा, :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार पिछ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा नहीं होगा तो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा उपा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा है। :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा मारने का काम करेगी, :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा करेगी…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

एक माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : चारे में कितना कमा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा? :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार घोटाले में कितना खा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और पी.एम.ओ. घोटाले में प्रधान मंत्री :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे रहे। पी.एम.ओ. घोटाला, :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार घोटाला, टेलीफोन घोटाला, घोटाले पर घोटाला, अनाज घोटाला, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे घोटाले हो रहे हैं। एक तरफ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हो रहे हैं। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप खत्म करि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : तहलका काण्ड में रख दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कि कौन मंत्री कितनी घू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा खा रहा है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारण रख दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। तहलका पर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाह:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा होगी तो मैं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ातांगा कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह घोटाले की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप जल्दी खत्म करें और उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात न करें। डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार की जनता का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााल हम दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;र्ाोच्च पंचा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ात इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद में उठाना चाहते हैं और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताना चाहते हैं कि :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार की द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; जनता के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ न्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा नहीं हो रहा है। श्री रघुनाथ झा : :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोल रहे हैं। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के ही हैं, अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा झारखंड के हो गए हैं। हम उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कहना चाहते हैं कि जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाका:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हमारा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको देने की घो:ण्;ाणा करें। डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा दोनों राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों का है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलिए। डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाात:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं, आठ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं और नौ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं पंच:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं को जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; कर देखा है कि :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार को जो हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा मिलना चाहिए, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हजार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कम मिला है। डा. ज:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ांत :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा (अल:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार) : .:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करते हैं कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की, लेकिन के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार तक ही :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमित रह गए हैं। डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार को द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हजार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए का नुक:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान हुआ है। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार मार चुकी है। लेकिन :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का कर्जा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार पर द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हजार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए है 

…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार की चर्चा न करें, आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारि:ण्;ठ नेता हैं, आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पर चर्चा करें। डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार पर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हजार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाका:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाात:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं, आठ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं और नौ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीं पंच:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ोंट्रल :द्ृद्धड्ड;पों:द्ृद्धड्ड;ार्ड :द्ृद्धड्ड;कीम्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा में :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार का हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हजार करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा मारा जा चुका है, मैं मांग करता हूं उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको राइटआफ कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर आपको कोई खर्च नहीं करना है। उधर के जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामर्थन करें।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)है कोई माई का लाल जो इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात को मेरे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ कहे।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) तमाम आर्थिक इंडिकेट:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो देखा जाए, जिन राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का दर्जा प्राप्त है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा केटेगरी में :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार को आर्थिक आमदनी के हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाामिल कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा नहीं, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए। हमारा दो तिहाई खर्चा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार में रह ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और एक तिहाई आमदनी झारखंड में रह गई। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए हम मांग करते हैं कि उत्तराखंड को जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का दर्जा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा रहा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आर्थिक इंडीकेटर की छान:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीन करके :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का दर्जा मिलना चाहिए, नहीं तो :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांक्ट में रहेगा और :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां की जनता को कठिनाई होगी…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री प्रका:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा परांजपे : अगर :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार को पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा मिलेगा तो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामर्थन करेंगे … ( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठिए, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों उनको डि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढदर्;ा कर रहे हैं। श्री रघुनाथ झा : हम :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जानकारी चाहते हैं। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कर लें। रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद जी अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा आप :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाप्त कीजिए। डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा जी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोल रहे थे कि कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलिए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आपने कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कर ली है। डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : पांच राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में गेहूं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारप्ल:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हुआ, :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार को छो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में प्रोक्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोरमेंट होता है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल नहीं हुआ, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो होगा। ४३ लाख टन गेहूं पैदा हुआ था, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका छठा हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी प्रोक्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोर नहीं हुआ। धान एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; २३ लाख टन :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार ने पैदा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान आधा धान :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोचने को मज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाूर हुआ। व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाापारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों ने दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे प्रदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में ले जाकर जमा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा लेकिन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां के कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; तैई:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा लाख टन में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ८००० टन के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल नगण्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रोक्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोरमेंट हुआ। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ोद:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार कर रही है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार के कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कर रही है। केरल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लेकर नारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाल, तिलहन, अनाज, फल और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;जी के कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान पर ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूटीओ का हमला हुआ है। ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूटीओ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जो उपा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचाने के हैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा छोटे उद्योगों को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचाने के हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो उपा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा करने में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार अक्षम रही है और कहते हैं कि गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आपका टाइम खत्म हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाप्त कीजिए। डॉ. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : एक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात का :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कोई ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा दे दे। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााढ़े चार रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो प्रति कि.ग्रा. गेहूं गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी रेखा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नीचे रहने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले आदमी को मिल रहा है।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)पीडीए:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााढ़े चार रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो में दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। हमें हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाता दें कि चार रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो पन्द्रह पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो प्रति कि.ग्रा. गेहूं एक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ापोर्ट के नाम पर ट्रेडर के हाथ में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोच रही है और गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा आदमी को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााढ़े चार रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो में गेहूं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार दे रही है।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)अंधेर नगरी, चौपट राजा।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)और कहते हैं कि :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ोजेंगे। कोई माई का लाल हो तो ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा दे।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) इतना :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारी अंधेर नहीं देखा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)अन्त््:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा अनाज :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार चला रही है। ६ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी रेखा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नीचे हैं। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान):द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने कहा कि गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार को खोजें। ६ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; परि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाीपीएल हैं। एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों में गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो खोजेंगे? गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा को ठग रहे हैं। गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा हो रहा है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीलिए हम इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक के खिलाफ हैं और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा नहीं होना चाहिए। चूंकि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी, जन :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी और गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट है और कोई :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौक्:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांतु:ण्;ट नहीं है।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : टाइम :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं है। अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाप्त करिए। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

 

श्री रघुनाथ झा : महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे हैं। एक आंकलन के अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाार लग:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाग एक लाख करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो का कालाधन :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ादे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों में :द्ृिद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंकों, नेपाल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंकों, अर:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा अमीरात तथा अमरीका और अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों में हैं। टैक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा चोरी, कर :ड्ढह;ा:ण्;टाचार, हेराफेरी और घपलों, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार और व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की कमि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों और खामि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो फा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादा उठाकर अन्तर्रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांधों :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम्पत्ति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े अपराधि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों, अफीम, ड्रग और हथि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार के मामलों :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अर्जित :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ााल और अपू:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ा कालाधन इकट्ठा करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले धन कु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरों की लम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी लि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े उद्योगपति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों, माफि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और अधिकारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के नाम हैं और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में हम :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जानकारी चाहते हैं कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा पर कुछ नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांत्रण करने का काम है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा नहीं है? क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा इन्हें पक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लोगों के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार को कोई :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचना है? :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार अपने उत्तर में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताने का काम करें तो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी कृपा होगी। श्री रामानन्द :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह ( :द्ृद्धड्ड;ातना ) :महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, मैं :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी द्वारा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामर्थन करने के लिए ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा हुआ हूं। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा उन्होंने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने अ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामान्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति रही हैं। गुजरात में इतना :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांकर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूकंप आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले उ:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा की त्रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ादी और दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागों में :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाा की कमी और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजूद :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाकि दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा पर १३ लाख करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो का कर्जा है। हम लोगों ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाात:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ों द:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कर्जा लेना :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाु:ड्डड्ढ; कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा कर्जो का जो हमारा कुल राज:द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका ६९ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााज के :ड्डड्ढ;प में दे रहे हैं । इन :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापरीत परि:द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजूद माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामाज के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी क्षेत्रों में मोटे तौर पर :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाागत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। मुझे प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान्नता है, कांग्रे:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मुख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी पक्ष है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाने :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोध में ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें नहीं कही हैं, जो :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो खिलाफ में जाती हों । :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाक है, प्रतिपक्ष को आलोचना करनी है और उन्होंने आलोचना की, लेकिन मोटे तौर पर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाागत कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह है कि ग्रामीण :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में ४५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए के :द्ृद्धड्ड;थान पर ५००० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए का प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी प्रकार कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लिए :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााज की दर में ना:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार्ड में ११.५ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो घटा कर १०.५ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात की गई है । आगामी तीन :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाों में कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाैडिट कार्ड देने की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की है । ग्रामीण अंचल में कोल्ड :द्ृद्धड्ड;टोरेज के लिए पांच पर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोंट की दर पर ऋण देने की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की है । एग्रीकल्चर ग्रेज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाुएट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने एग्रो-क्लीनिक्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौन्ट:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ा की :द्ृद्धड्ड;थापना की घो:ण्;ाणा की है । पू:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;र्ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के लिए धार :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााटर मैनेजमेंट केलिए ७० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए :ड्डड्ढ;पए की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की है । उत्तर पू:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााग:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाानी के लिए ३२ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए की व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की है । प्रधान मंत्री :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना - :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने के लिए २५०० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए की घो:ण्;ाणा की है और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ ही उन्होंने कहा है कि २००३ तक एक हजार की जन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ांख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों को और २००७ तक पांच :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाौ की जन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ांख्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने का :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार रखा है । मैं माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो प्रार्थना क:ड्डड्ढ;ंगा कि ग्रामीण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;क और ग्रामीण :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए जो उन्होंने प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान किए हैं, उनमें :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ादों की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागीदारी को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुनि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत करें । कारण :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह कि राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:िद्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ान्न दलों की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारें हैं और उनकी अपनी कठिनाइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां हैं । दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारों द्वारा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा मद का पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे मद में खर्च कर दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाता है । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांध में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ांद में प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकल्प पर माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा चेन्नितल्ला जी ने :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाचार प्रकट किए थे । :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत दु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;र्ााग्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ापूर्ण :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति है कि राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को ग्रामीण :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए दी जाने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली रा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल ५६ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात ही खर्च हो रहा है । मेरे मित्र कह रहे थे कि :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाका:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा रा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा दी जाए …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)मैं आपकी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामर्थन कर रहा हूं । :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहार में पंचा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाती राज के चुना:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत देर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो हुए । हिं:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा हो रही है, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह अलग :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है, हिं:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााकी राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी होती है । चुना:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों को ठीक कराकर पंचा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ातों को अधिकार देने चाहिए और उन अधिकारों को केन्द्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकरण अनुचित है। मैं आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा करता हूं कि ग्रामीण :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए जो :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाुरुआत हुई हैं, आगे आने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारें उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा में ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान देंगी । इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी प्रकार ग्रामीण :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्युतीकरण की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है । राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात अलग है, दिल्ली में :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजली का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ांकट है । आपने ग्रामीण :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्युतीकरण के लिए ७५० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए का प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । हम मानते हैं कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत कम है और इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाने की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है । छ: :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाों में दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के ८० हजार गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाों को :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्युत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने का आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है । हमें आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा है कि राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारें और राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजली :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोड्:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाह:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोग :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लक्ष्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को प्राप्त करने में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाफल होगी । आपने अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जाति और जनजाति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के क्षेत्रों में :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजली पहुंचाने के लिए और राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाद्युत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोड्:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ा के पुनर्गठन के लिए आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान दिए हैं। हमें आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा है कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार कारगर कदम उठाएगी । खाद्यान्न के प्र:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांधन में, अनाज के प्रक्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोरमेंट में, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ातरण में राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागीदारी को :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुनि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत करने के लिए आपने कहा है, लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें हमारा अनु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा है कि कई राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में खतरा है। कई गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा क्षेत्रों में खाद्यान्न नहीं पहुंचता, :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाहरों में ही :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;लैक हो जाता है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए हमारा कहना है कि खाद्यान्न :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ातरण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाननी चाहिए। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें ए:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी, ए:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाटी और गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाके के लोगों की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागीदारी होनी चाहिए। के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल ग्राम पंचा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ातों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारपंचों पर :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता, ग्राम:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ााओं को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा में लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाना चाहिए। उन्हें अधिकार दिए जाने चाहिए। :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी, आपने इन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारी कठिनाई:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाजूद हमारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा का जो कुल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट ३,७५,३२३ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए का है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें एक लाख :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाौ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजना मद में रखा है और लग:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाग :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ो:ण्;ा रा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा नॉन प्लान में रखी है। आपने केन्द्र :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ात प्रदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाों की :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं के लिए १६ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात रा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाई है, जो के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल १३,८६२ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए है। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मंत्री जी, दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा पर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांकर कर्जा है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह चिन्ता की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात है।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)मैं कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी एक राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार को इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए दो:ण्;ा नहीं देता, लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाच है कि कर्जे का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा इनफ्रा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ट्रक्चर के नाम पर लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा और अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादी ढांचा तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार नहीं हुआ। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाुनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादी ढांचे के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा में, निर्माण में खर्च हो और दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा अपने पैरों पर ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा हो। मंत्री जी, मैं नि:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चत :ड्डड्ढ;प :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो आपके दल में हूं लेकिन मुझे इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत चिन्ता है कि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारों के लिए कोई चिन्ता नहीं की गई, ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा कि आपने अपने घो:ण्;ाणा-पत्र में कहा था कि एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारों को काम देंगे, लेकिन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में उनके लिए कोई प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)आपने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी खर्चे को कम करने के लिए कहा, लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह खर्चा पिछले :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा की तुलना में इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा है। लोक:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाामने गांधी जी का :द्ृद्धड्ड;टेचू लगा हुआ है। हम चाहते हैं कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार द्वारा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाादगी को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए तथा लोक:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा में जो पर्दे लगे हुए हैं :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो खादी के, हैंडलूम के हों। लोक:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ादों और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारी कर्मचारि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों का खर्चा निरंतर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ता जा रहा है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ांत्रित कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाना चाहिए। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हिद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाडी की दि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ादलनी चाहिए। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो उत्पादक का:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाों में, ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां नहरों के निर्माण में खर्च करना चाहिए। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह पीने के पानी के लिए, :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा का:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाों के लिए खर्च कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए। मैं ट्रेक्टर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाालों के लिए :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हिद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाडी की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात नहीं करता, छोटे कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लिए कह रहा हूं। मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमांत कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात कह रहा हूं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की अर्थव्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था की रीढ़ कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए आप क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं। मैं चाहूंगा कि :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों और छोटे कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों के लिए तथा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरोजगारों के लिए नीति :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाएं और आने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;र्ाों में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में उनके लिए प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान करें। इन्हीं :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;दों के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ मैं :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट का :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाागत करते हुए उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अपेक्षा करता हूं कि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो अपने उत्तर में इन्हें पूरा करने का आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान देंगे। … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : If you disturb, I cannot call you please. SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL ( CHANDIGARH ): Madam Chairperson, when the hon. Finance Minister presented this year’s Budget, he earned encomiums from the industry chieftains. Lavish praise was showered on him. The Budget was hailed as a wonder Budget. But the very next day, that euphoria began to dissipate as more and more people began to come to terms with the fine print of his Finance Bill. By this day, the intervening events have rather exposed the hon. Finance Minister’s proclaimed determination "to put an end to a system where pressure groups or lobbies could influence decision making." By now it is regretfully clear that the Government has rather abdicated its role in economic development. The financial proposals of the Government may have cheered the big industrialists, but they have sapped the vitality of the small and the medium industry, besides crushing the common man. Madam, lakhs of people have been completely ruined and many have even been driven to commit suicide as a result of the stock market crash. This scam has been of unprecedented magnitude. Yet, the government continues to bask in the glory of complacence. It continues to praise itself, to sing itself and if we remind the Government of its declaration to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe into the scam, an impression is given as if we are guilty of blasphemy. There is widespread disillusionment and dissatisfaction all around. One does not have to labour hard to see the deep-rooted pro-rich and anti-poor bias in the Government’s fiscal policy. To secure nine out of ten marks from the captains of industry, Shri Yashwant Sinha has forsaken the common man. There is a cut in the excise duty on cars while the poor cannot afford even a bicycle. There is a cut on the duty on glazed tiles which adorn the bathrooms of the rich while the poor are forced to defecate in the open. I also cannot understand the reason for reduction in customs duty on gold. Is this the priority concern of the Government? I would like to know from the hon. Minister. The country today is faced with a host of problems. But there is no indication at all whether the Government is capable of coming to grips with the same. The growth rate is declining, the fiscal deficit continues to bedevil our fiscal management, non-generation of employment is discouraging, the stock market has crashed, scams are unfolding and there is no apparent desire to fight corruption. There is misuse of MODVAT. There are whopping non-performing assets of the banks. All this, perhaps, does not worry the Government. In his financial proposals, the hon. Minister is silent about evasion of taxes and black money. According to a study, black money in the country is about 40 per cent of the GDP which comes to about Rs. 8,00,000 crore per annum. Nothing has been attempted to strengthen the provisions of the Income-tax Act for tackling the black money. The exemption limit on interest earned for TDS has been brought down to Rs. 2,500. This will put pensioners, clerks and others with limited means of income under the TDS, though they may not be covered by the income-tax net. This will certainly hurt the genuine non-assessees. The hon. Minister has taxed every conceivable service, including small-time photography and videography, without appreciating the hassles which petty self-employed persons will have to face at the hands of corrupt excise officials. I do not question the need to broaden the tax base. Efforts have got to be made to encourage people to pay taxes voluntarily. But, at the same time, taxation should not be punitive or unbearable. Today, the sum total of taxes which the common man – I repeat the common man - pays as the percentage of his total earnings is much more than what the rich man pays. Therefore, there is merit in the demand to raise the income-tax exemption limit to Rs. one lakh. A person earning this amount finds it extremely difficult to support his family to provide them food, clothing, shelter, education and medical care. When he already pays taxes in many other forms, he should at least be exempted from income tax. Madam, I have sent a notice for an amendment to this effect to the Schedule of the Finance Bill. I would urge the hon. Minister to accept this and accordingly incorporate the consequent changes, wherever necessary. The loss on this account can be made good through efficient administration. I did want to refer to quite a few matters, but I am conscious of the time constraint. So, to conclude, I would only say that look from any angle you wish at the financial proposals of the Minister, the approach of the Government is nothing but disappointing. Therefore, it is difficult to support the Bill. MR. CHAIRMAN : The Minister has to reply. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL ( PATAN ): Madam, the discussion was to start at 12.30 p.m. It started only at 1.15 p.m. You cannot curtail the time of the Members to speak on the Budget. MR. CHAIRMAN: I have not curtailed anybody’s time. We have exceeded the time. Time from 4.30 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. is extra time. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : From our side, five names were given, but five Members have not spoken. I want to speak. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I am sorry. I can only stick to the time given to each Party and not the numbers. Three people have spoken. श्री रामदा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आठ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाले (पंढरपुर) : माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों की गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला और अमीरों की अमीरी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान करना चाहिए जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो काला धन कम होता। काले धन को कम करने की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है। आपको :द्ृद्धड्ड;ात्ता में आए तीन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल हो गए हैं। आपके आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों के मुता:िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाक २६ पर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ौंट लोग :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल. में हैं। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाौ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; की पापुले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान को देखते हुए आपके आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े गलत हैं। हमारे आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ों के मुता:िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाक कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कम ५० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा लोग गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी रेखा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नीचे हैं। इन्हें पर उठाने की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा जी, आपकी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार और :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक में इतनी ताकत नहीं है। आज अमीर लोग गलत काम करके पै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना रहे हैं। ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लोगों को खींचने की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है लेकिन आप अकेले इन्हें खींच नहीं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते। ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक हम :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां नहीं आते त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तक :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो नीचे आने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले नहीं हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााह:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा, मैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हूं आपके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोध में :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा को जगाने के लिए और मैं अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी-अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी जा रहा हूं आपकी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार को :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ागाने के लिए। मैं :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हूं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाांति :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो चलाने के लिए और मैं अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा जा रहा हूं आपकी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार को मिट्टी में मिलाने के लिए। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााह:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा, आप अकेले कुछ नहीं कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकते। हमें मालूम है कि आपके दिल में गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों के प्रति हमदर्दी है लेकिन आड:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााणी जी और दू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ारे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाह:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोगी दल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ापोर्ट नहीं कर रहे हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए आप :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी परे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाान हैं। आप :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों चले गए इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए हम :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी परे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाान हैं। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही म:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाला चलता रहा है। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा जी, अगर गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों को नहीं मिलेगा मकान तो एक दिन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांद हो जाएगा आपका मुकाम। प्रमोद महाजन जी, गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों दलितों को नहीं मिलेगी रोटी तो आने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले चुना:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में हम कर देंगे आपकी छट्टी । मैं इतना कहना चाहता हूं कि इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जाति और अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जनजाति की पापुले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान के हि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो, :द्ृद्धड्ड;पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाल कम्पोनेंट प्लान में धन का प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान होना चाहि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में पहले :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कह चुका हूं। माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रधानमंत्री जी ने ए:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोरें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा फाइनें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल में उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कुछ नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो मैं मांग करना चाहता हूं कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;टेट और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौंट्रल दोनो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जाति, अनु:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूचित जनजाति तथा गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी रेखा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो नीचे रहने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाालों के लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो प्रो:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाीजन कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो जाने की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है। मैं :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जानना चाहता हूं कि :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं? :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााह:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तै:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाार कर रहे हैं। श्री रामदा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आठ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाले : :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा देने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााले हैं, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह मेरे पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी है लेकिन जो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााल मैंने पूछा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा मिलने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााला है :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा नहीं? :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा कुछ मिलेगा। श्री रामदा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा आठ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाले : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाापति महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन में प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत फाइनें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल का :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोध करता हूं क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाों का :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोधी है। अगर आप अगले :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल रहेंगे तो अच्छा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट ला:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि नहीं रहेंगे तो मैं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ातांगा कि कै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो अच्छा फाइनें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल लाना है। SHRI P.C. THOMAS ( MUVATTUPUZHA ): Madam Chairman, due to paucity of time, I shall only make a few points. One is, the customs duty on cocoa has not been increased and as a result a lot of people, small and marginal growers of cocoa, are put in great difficulty. Big companies like Nestle and Cadbury are making huge profits. They are getting Rs. 400 per kilogram of chocolate, whereas the farmer is getting only Rs. 30 or Rs. 38. They are importing large quantities. Therefore, the import duty must be higher for cocoa. Another point is with regard to rubberised coir. As you know, coir is produced from the husk of the coconut. It is actually thrown out, but now it is being used in a very big way. A lot of employment has been created because of this. Therefore, I would like to submit that the four per cent excise duty imposed on coir and rubber, which are purely agro-based industries, should be withdrawn. Here also, a lot of employment is being created, and it is an eco-friendly industry. Thirdly, the industry that produces rubber threads in India is also facing a lot of problems. One aspect which you have to revise is with regard to the excise duty which has been imposed. The next point is with regard to caprolactam which is a product of FACT, which is one of the largest public undertakings in which some life has to be infused. The import duty on caprolactam, which has been reduced, may have to be increased to safeguard the interests of the domestic industry, which is doing very well and which has to be helped in other ways also. Another point is with regard to excise duty on tea and coffee. The growers of tea and coffee are in great difficulty. Therefore, the excise duty which has been imposed on tea must be withdrawn. I am only making the points because of paucity of time. With regard to footwear, I would submit that the footwear worn by normal people, workers and poor people, costs between Rs. 40 and Rs. 125. I would submit that this labour-oriented industry must be saved. 17.00 hrs. 

Madam, I would now like to refer to the sick vanaspati units. We already have brought this point to the notice of the hon. Finance Minister… (Interruptions) Shri Balu, I would just require one minute. This is a very important point. MR. CHAIRMAN : Shri Baalu, he wants the hon. Finance Minister to listen to him. … (Interruptions) SHRI P.C. THOMAS : Sir, the vanaspati units have been given a special consideration. It is a good thing if the Government is trying to boost the sick units. The crude palm oil import is the basis of the crisis in the coconut and other edible oil industry. Now, 75 per cent import duty has been imposed on this. Our submission, on behalf of the farmers, would be that the import duty should be hiked. A reduction in the import duty has been proposed for the sick vanaspati units. This, I am sure, would be mis-utilised. It would be good if the sick units could be helped in some other ways. But reducing the import duty for them may not be the right step. I think, it would result in large scale import. Madam, there are many pensioners who have been affected as a result of the reduction in the interest rate to 9.5 per cent in the Provident Fund. Madam, there is a new provision in the Finance Bill -- I think, in clause V -- in regard to the charitable institutions… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Order please. SHRI P.C. THOMAS : I would like to submit that it has been proposed that if the turnover of a charitable institution or a NGO is more than Rs. 10 lakh, then it has to publish it in the newspapers. My point is that if you are asking them to publish it in the newspapers, then that would be a burden on many of the NGOs and charitable institutions that are doing a good job. There should be transparency but to say that they should advertise in the newspapers would be too harsh on them. If at all you have to persist with it, then you must help them to get it published in the newspapers. The limit of Rs. 10 lakh is a meagre amount and Government should re-think on this aspect. There are many charitable organisations in the country that are rendering a yeomen’s service to the society. Madam, my next point is on rubber. India is producing rubber in large quantities… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Hon. Members, I think, you are not being fair to the Member who is speaking. Please have some patience to listen to him. SHRI P.C. THOMAS : Madam, one lakh seventy thousand tonnes of rubber are in excess. Now the only way to help the natural rubber growers – of whom 90 per cent are very small and marginal farmers and who are facing the threat of a lowered price from Rs. 70 per kilogram to Rs. 22 – is to make a hike in the duty on the import of rubber. I think, the hon. Finance Minister would have to do something about it. But that has not been done in this Budget. The import duty on rubber is 25 per cent. I know the hon. Finance Minister would say that it cannot be hiked because of the restrictions of the WTO at this stage. But I would like to submit that the excise duty on many of the rubber manufactured goods using rubber latex – which are from our agricultural produce – should be revised. That would give a boost to the big industries as well as to the small manufacturers. I would submit that this matter has to be taken up at the WTO, if necessary. I say this because this is an agricultural produce but this has been mentioned, unfortunately, as a commercial produce. How can rubber which is planted by a small farmer, which becomes ripe after seven years only, be treated as a commercial produce? Latex is extracted from the rubber tree after the labourer puts in hard work. It is a poor labourer’s output. So, this issue should be taken up wherever necessary. It should be ensured that it is treated as an agricultural produce on record also. The import duty should be hiked on this. We have a grave threat of large-scale imports, bearing zero duty or half duty, from SAARC countries and Sri Lanka. This issue also has to be taken up. There are provisions for taking up such matters with the concerned country when the domestic production is affected. As far as coconut and rubber are concerned, I would request the hon. Minister to do something. I hope that he would do something immediately in this Finance Bill, in the Budget, and also in the steps that he is going to take, to save the farmers. My last point is with regard to under-invoicing. Under-invoicing is something which is taking place in regard to all imports. In many cases imports are going on without the real price being stated. In case of imports of the produces that are not produced in India at all, the Finance Ministry officials have allowed under-invoicing. For example, poppy is not produced in India at all. In some cases of poppy imports, even after showing the price correctly and after providing evidence, the officials say that the price is not correct. They say that the import is under-invoiced and, therefore, the imported material cannot be taken delivery of. This is with regard to a produce which is not produced in India. However, with regard to those produces which are being produced in India, many of the officials of the Revenue Department are not much eager to see that illegal imports do not take place. I would request the hon. Minister to give specific instructions to the concerned officials in this regard. श्री रतिलाल कालीदा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्मा (धन्धुका) : माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मंत्री जी ने आम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट प्रगति और :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाका:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाकर हिन्दु:द्ृद्धड्ड;तान के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्गों के लोगों को खु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। मेरा :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कहना है कि :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह क्षमता और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामानता का :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह नई आ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ााएं :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी हमको प्रदान कर रहा है। प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;तुत आम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में कृ:िण्;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्;ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक अनेक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधाएं देकर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी रक्षा की गई है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए मैं माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मंत्री जी का इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा के लिए अ:िद्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ानंदन करता हूं। अर्थव्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;था के क्षेत्र में तथा आर्थिक क्षेत्र और पूंजी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााजार के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाुधारों को जारी रखने का काम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाुल्कों में छूट देने के लिए आज तक के अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी अपने :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोकाधिकार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी की :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मदद करते रहे थे :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा उनको खु:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा करते थे लेकिन इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा मंत्री जी ने अपनी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोकाधीन :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाक्ति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों को त्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाागकर :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह आम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार के कई करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचाकर एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारहानी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह आगे :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाचाते रहेंगे। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ-:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ कर चोरी करने :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाालों को क:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो क:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाजा देने के लिए जो प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में कर चोरी कम होगी। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूती धागे, र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोई गै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा, मिट्टी के तेल, द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा हा:द्ृद्धड्डर्;ा पा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार तक के डीजल इंजनों में आठ पर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ोंट का कर उत्पादन :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाुल्क रखकर, आचार, जू:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाॉ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ागैरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ते रखकर तथा फूल और :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हिद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ज:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में छूट देकर गरी:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा जनता को राहत पहुंचाई है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके अला:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में महिलाओं का ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान रखकर घर में :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाांति :द्ृद्धड्ड;थापित करने का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाराहनी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ात्न माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी ने कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ण पर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाुल्क प्रति द:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा ग्राम ४०० रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो घटा कर २५० रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ण गहनों का नि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;र्ाात तो होगा ही लेकिन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ ही :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारती:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा महिलाओं को :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार्ण आ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाू:ण्;ाण अपने पति :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा प्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाारा होता है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो उन्हे आ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो धारण :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी कर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकेंगी। रक्षा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ोत्तरी करके हमारी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ोना का मनो:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके लिए इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा ३१७७३.१६ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो का प्रा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान करके थल, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाु और नौ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ोना, जो हमारी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमाओं की रक्षा कर रही है, का मनो:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। मंत्री जी को मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी अ:िद्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ानन्दन दे रहा हूं कि उन्होंने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी, तम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााकू और पान म:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााले पर १५ प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात अधि:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाार लगा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है ताकि लोग उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान करें :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा धूम्रपान को छो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ने पर मज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाूर हों। मंत्री जी ने उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह जनता को :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;थ ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां ताकत:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाने के लिए जो कदम उठाए हैं, उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो महिलाओं और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाालकों में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी आनन्द देखने को मिलता है। 17.12 hrs (उपाध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पीठा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीन हुए) 
   
   

मैं गुजरात के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में कहना चाहता हूं। गुजरात में :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूकम्प आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, दो प्रति:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारचार्ज लगा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा लेकिन फिर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी गुजरात को और अधिक धनरा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है। लाखों मकान :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाने की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारी दुनि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो मदद मिली है लेकिन फिर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी लोग :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की तरफ निगाह लगा कर :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठे हैं कि :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की ओर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा धनरा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा दी जाए। गुजरात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहकारी क्षेत्र में नम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे हिन्दु:द्ृद्धड्ड;तान :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लोग गुजरात के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहकारी क्षेत्र को देखने के लिए आते थे। लेकिन कुछ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा पहले माध:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापुरा कोआपरेटि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक में एक घटना घटित हुई। अगर :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ांद हो जाता है तो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे गुजरात के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहकारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंकों को धक्का लगेगा। माध:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापुर कोआपरेटि:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक चालू रहे और उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो जो आर्थिक मदद देनी प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेगी :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक गारंटी देनी प:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ेगी, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार, रिज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौंक की ओर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो दी जाए। गुजरात में लघु :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाएं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत चल रही हैं। आज हर जगह पानी की किल्लत देखने को मिल रहा है। :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत के कई राज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों में पीने के पानी की परे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाानी है। लेकिन गुजरात ने लघु :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाएं :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना कर नमूनेदार काम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। मेरे क्षेत्र गढडा में खोपा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा गां:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा है। हिन्दु:द्ृद्धड्ड;तान :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो लोग :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाहां :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाएं देखने के लिए आते हैं। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे गुजरात में :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाचाई :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोजनाओं का प्राधान्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा हो, छोटे-छोटे ताला:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े हों, हर नदी-नाले पर चैक डैम :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाने। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी ज्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाादा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाता :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाारत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की ओर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो मिले, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाही मैं चाहता हूं। आज :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाह एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााल में कहा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था कि :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाच्चों को जन्म देते :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी महिलाओं की मृत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाु हो जाती है। गुजरात :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने प्र:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ात्न करके :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत कम कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। गुजरात अच्छा का:द्ृद्धड्डढर्;ा करने में नम्:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो मेरी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानती है कि :द्ृद्धड्ड;:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;थ्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा के क्षेत्र में गुजरात जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा तरह आगे :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ रहा है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो और धनरा:िद्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा देकर उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका उत्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाए। २५ लाख रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो तक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााँल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोरिंग :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूनिट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के टर्नओ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार की राहत दी गई है। मेरी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानती है कि एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो की लमिट में राहत देनी चाहिए। प्रधान मंत्री जी ने ए:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा.ए:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा.आई. :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाूनिट्:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के लिए ५० लाख रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा कर एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो की राहत दी है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी तरह इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी ऐग्ज़िम डयूटी को माफ करने की मेरी :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ानती है। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाोडा ऐ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा पर :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाीमा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाुल्क :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ाना चाहिए। SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL ( PATAN ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I thank you very much for allowing me to speak on the Union Budget. At the outset, through you, I want to ask pointed questions to the Union Finance Minister. Why is he misinforming and misdirecting the Indian Parliament for the last two years? My question is, why the actual and revised figures for 1999-00 and 2000-01 are not provided in this year’s receipt Budget. If not today, the answer may be given after seven days. I do not mind that but let Parliament be given the reasons. If you refer to the figures in the Budget, right from 1997-98 to 2000-2001, for four particular items, that is, total import duties, total refunds of import duties, total duty drawbacks and net total import duties, the figures of 1997-98 and 1998-99 is the same. Even the revised figures for 1998-99 and 1999-2000 are the same and also the Budget figures for 1999-2000 and 2000-2001 are the same. How can there be the same figures in the column of refund, in the column of duty drawbacks, in the column of total import duties and also in the column of net total import duties? The hon. Minister of Finance may kindly reply to this specific question. The Indian Finance Minister has glorified his own Budget in the last para of his speech: He has himself glorified the Budget but we know the results within two months from the presentation of his Budget. It is very easy to use the word ‘people’. Even this House is called the ‘House of the People’. According to me ‘people’ are those who wait in the queues for buses, those who wait at the railway stations and even after purchasing tickets do not get their seats in the trains of the Indian Railways. They are the real people, the people residing in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh suffering out of droughts for the last two years, the people in the Indian villages who have no drinking water throughout the year. … (Interruptions) We have ruled but not all over the country. You have also ruled some of the States. Please listen to me. I have categorised the Indian people into different categories. They are the people residing in rural areas, the women, the children, the landless workers, the unemployed youth, the disabled particularly the blind, ex-Army jawans, war widows, other widows, aged people living all alone, those who earn their livelihood by carrying out the world’s oldest profession of prostitution, the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and minorities and backward classes. These are the weaker sections of our society. I want to know from the hon. Minister of Finance what provision he has made in the Budget for these specific 14 categories of people, who are known as weaker sections of the society. The Budget was no doubt welcomed by the industrialists, the NRIs and by those who conduct meetings in five-star hotels. I want to invite the attention of the Indian Finance Minister to para 52 of his Budget speech where he has taken the privilege to amend the Industrial Disputes Act , which is an Act passed by this Parliament. The limit of 100 workers has been raised to 1,000. He has given the power to the factory owners that they can lay off the factories without permission from the Government. He has taken this privilege. He has crossed the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and in his Budget speech he has made a direct amendment. When the banks were nationalised by Parliament, the Banking Service Recruitment Board was created because of the nationalisation of banks. In good olden days prior to nationalisation, every bank was a bank of a particular community. It was a bank of a particular State; it was a bank of a particular region. If you go to the Bank of Baroda or to the Bank of Saurashtra, you will find that people from a particular caste or class or people from a particular region are getting jobs. If you go to Dena Bank, you will find that people from a particular community or a particular class or a region are getting employment. It was only after nationalisation that people belonging to various classes or castes or regions, through the Banking Service Recruitment Board, were getting an opportunity to enter the nationalised banks. What right has the Finance Minister got to give powers to the banks and the Indian Banks Association to make recruitment and to scrap the Banking Service Recruitment Board? We want a specific reply from the Indian Finance Minister. Now, I want to only refer to the provisions made for important Sectors. Let us take the example of Department of Social Justice and Empowerment. The provision during the last year was Rs.1,350 crore and this year also, the provision made is for Rs.1,350 crore. It is not a single rupee more nor a single rupee less. The bureaucrats have prepared the Budget. कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाको :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट देना है? What was the provision made last year? It was the same figure. Let me inform the Indian Finance Minister that Shri Suraj Bhan who is a Governor appointed by the BJP has given a figure officially that in this country, there is a total of 46 crore acre of cultivable land lying vacant as wasteland. The Indian Finance Minister has provided only Rs.1 crore for land reforms in this country. I want to know from the hon. Finance Minister, whether one can have land reforms in this country by having Rs.1 crore only? The provision for this year is Rs.1 crore; the provision for the last year also was Rs.1 crore; the provision for the year before last was also Rs.1 crore. I want an answer from the Indian Finance Minister. Why does the figure for land reform remained at Rs.1 crore and why does the figure for the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment remained at Rs.1350 crore? My friend from Gujarat was asking for more money. Let me inform my friends in the BJP about the money given by the Government of India to the worst drought-hit and earthquake-affected people of Gujarat. Till date, the Government of India has given only Rs.500 crore as ad hoc payment. It is not from the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund and it is not from any other Head. It is given as ad hoc payment.… (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please conclude. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : This is a very important point. An amount of Rs.342 crore is given by the Rural Development Ministry. So, in all, an amount of Rs.842 crore has been given to Gujarat. On the other hand, the BJP Government of Gujarat has given a written report to the Central Government that the total loss of public and private property in Gujarat on account of earthquake is worth Rs.22,000 crore. But the Government of India of the same party has given only a pittance of Rs.500 crore to the Government of Gujarat. The Government of Gujarat has admitted that the figure of people who are dead is 20,000. The actual figure may be more. The Government of Gujarat has promised that the kith and kin of those who were killed will be paid a compensation of Rs.1 lakh. I have got the figure. Out of these 20,000 who died three months ago, the Government of Gujarat has paid the compensation of Rs.1 lakh to only 8,000 people. I want to know from the Government of Gujarat through the Government of India, why it is not paid to all those who died. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please conclude. The next speaker is Dr. B.B. Ramaiah. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I am concluding. … (Interruptions) I want to make only one important item regarding Budget. … (Interruptions) I will take only one minute. The hon. Minister has imposed two per cent surcharge on account of Gujarat earthquake. I want to know from the hon. Minister, whether the amount of Rs.1,300 crore, which will be collected because of this, will be transferred to the Government of Gujarat or it will be transferred only to the Natural Calamity Fund. According to my information, the first instalment has already arrived. But that money has been transferred to Natural Calamity Fund. I, as a Member of Parliament from Gujarat, demand that the entire money which is collected in the name of Gujarat earthquake should be transferred directly to the Government of Gujarat and not to the Natural Calamity Fund. DR. BOLLA BULLI RAMAIAH ( ELURU ): Sir, first of all, I would like to thank the hon. Finance Minister for reducing surcharges on direct taxation and also for the relief that he has given in indirect taxation and dividend taxation. It is really a right direction in which he has moved. Not only that, he has also taken a right direction in the matter of interest rates of banks which has become an absolute necessity for this country to survive and to compete with the international market. Today, we are having competition. I feel that the growth rate should not be less than nine to ten per cent. I am sure that he would try to achieve that. I have only a few items on which I would like to express my opinion. One is about agriculture. About 65 per cent of the people depend on agriculture in our country. They are producing the crops with great difficulty and hardship. In spite of that, they are able to produce substantial amount of agricultural products. Today, they are able to produce in surplus, whether it is rice or wheat or sugar. But what we need today is a proper price which is absolutely essential for them to survive and to improve their productivity and growth. I think the FCI should be able to procure aggressively and try to at least pay the minimum price fixed by the Government. The main constraint that the FCI faces today is its godown capacity. For the last 10 years, we have not been able to expand our godown capacity. Production is going up. So, that is the main constraint. We should take some initiative and encourage more godowns to be built up. For the agricultural production to survive we need cold storage. Today, in Karnataka tomatoes are sold at just half a rupee. The State Government is not able to do anything. I would say that the food processing industry should be encouraged so that we are able to make tomato ketch-ups, soup, juice and things like that. This is not the case with tomatoes only but with various other products. We have to see that the agriculture should be encouraged in different directions in order to see that the growth sustains in this country. Today, the surplus production requires export support. We cannot export in the international market with our present price structure. We need to have some subsidy for export, as is the case in other countries. NABARD is giving substantial support for agricultural growth and I am very happy about it. Crop insurance has to be stabilised. Unless crop insurance is improved substantially, there will not be much agricultural development. Earlier we were giving a lot of support to drip irrigation but somehow this has not been working well now. This will not only save the water supply but also help in agricultural production. So, I am sure the hon. Minister takes this into consideration. So far as the supply of essential commodities to common man is concerned, I would like to say that when production goes up, the prices come down. In order to make sure proper supply of essential commodities to common man, we need cold storage. I would also like to say a word about the infrastructure. This has become absolutely necessary for the agricultural growth and development. The power projects, roads, ports and the like things about which we have been thinking for the last ten years and still thinking, have not been able to come to the desired level. Unless we build up these things, we will not be able to achieve the desired growth. Today, both agriculture and industry are suffering because of the power problem and other transportation difficulties. As far as the textile industry is concerned, it has suffered a lot after the recent Budget. This is one of the largest export earning sector which is earning more than Rs.40,000 crore. I think, we have to do something for the textile industry. Tourism is a very encouraging industry in the world today. I am sure we should be able to give a little more thrust to this. I would also like to see the small scale sector grow, which is also earning export for the country. The excise duty has become a big problem. We should see that the small scale sector not only survives but also is made export-oriented. The major petrochemical industry is severely affected by the latest liberalisation policy adopted by the Government. We have to protect it by whatever method we can; be it by increasing the excise duty or the anti-dumping duty or by giving excise duty concession 

The States are also finding it difficult to sustain their economy. The other day we discussed that minimum 33 per cent of the share be passed on to the States. I think it is very important. I hope the Finance Minister will take these things into consideration in the Finance Bill. The stock market is also affecting our control. SEBI should be strengthened substantially and given more power, otherwise, the stock market will affect the industrial growth and development. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Now, the Finance Minister. SHRIMATI SHYAMA SINGH ( AURANGABAD, BIHAR ): Sir, I may be allowed to speak.… (Interruptions) SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA ( GUNA ): You should yield to the lady Member. THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI YASHWANT SINHA ): I can even yield to you, Shri Scindia, if you ask. SHRIMATI SHYAMA SINGH : I just wanted to ask the Finance Minister, through you, that in the Budget – we were reading out the other day – there was a provision for employment of one crore of people every year in this country, but instead of generating that one crore of employment in this country we have retrenched people through the voluntary retirement scheme. By thrashing out the public sector, most of the people employed in this country have been retrenched or unemployed. At the moment, India is facing two major problems of population and unemployment. I would like to know by which means and by what method the Minister is thinking of generating employment for one crore people every year. Since the Minister comes from the State of Bihar, the other thing is important, till the other day he was also a part of us. Today, the maximum unemployment is perhaps in that State. We had a project which was conceptualised in 1989, known as the power project of Bihar . It was the only ray of hope for generating employment opportunities for the poor and the down-trodden. That project also has been shelved aside probably because we are not a part of the NDA Government. Would the Minister take note of it and see to it that he does not have a partisan approach to a thing like the common man’s future and, therefore, ensure that Bihar gets some, employment and some industry? There should be some opening for the people of Bihar. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, I am grateful to all the 19 Members, including the brief intervention by Shri Raghunath Jha, for their enormous and very substantial contributions to this debate on the Finance Bill. But before I come to the issues which have been raised, I would like to express my gratitude and thanks to the hon. Speaker, to the hon. Leader of the House and to the hon. Leader of the Opposition for having made it possible for us to hold this discussion in this spirit. I think we will continue to transact the business in this House in the same manner in future. Sir, this discussion was on the Finance Bill and as we all know, the Finance Bill contains the taxation proposals of the Budget. But perhaps because of the fact that we could not discuss the Budget in this House in the last part of the Session, hon. Members of this House have picked up issues which have a general bearing on the Budget that I have presented. There were a few Members, and I am particularly referring to Shri Paranjpae, who discussed the taxation proposals in particular, which is what, as I said, the Finance Bill is all about. I would like to take the fact that other Members did not spend much time on the discussion on the taxation proposals as an indication of the general acceptance of the taxation proposals of my Budget, cutting across party-lines in this House. But I would like to take a moment of your time in pointing out the basic philosophy which is behind the taxation proposals that we have enunciated in this year""""s Budget. As I had mentioned in my Budget speech, the moderate rate of taxes, simplification of taxation, doing away with exemptions and making the whole tax administration as friendly to the tax-payer as possible, were the guiding principles of my tax proposals. I have, in my introductory remarks while moving the Bill for consideration earlier this afternoon, suggested some changes. Those changes also, I believe, have been widely welcomed. If you look at the process that we adopt in our democracy about the preparation of the Budget, then you will realise why it becomes essential and necessary for the Finance Minister to move amendments to his taxation proposals when the Finance Bill is taken up for consideration. I am referring to the mystery, the confidentiality, the secretiveness which surrounds the preparation of Budget in our system. I am raising this point deliberately. In other democracies, to the best of my knowledge, Budget making is a very open exercise. The Budget is openly discussed, the taxation proposals are discussed amongst Members of Parliament and amongst various interest groups. The proposals are put before the people also and their response is invited. Then only the Budget is finalised, as we are doing through our process today in a much more transparent and open manner. This is my fourth Budget and I recall, except perhaps this year when the voices were muted, every time the Finance Minister comes with his Budget, invariably a point is raised by various Members that the Budget has been leaked. I think all sections of the House have to put their heads together. I am deliberately raising this issue to demystify the Budget to make it more transparent and more open, so that we will not be concerned, on the one hand, on the part of the Government to keep everything close to our chest and, on the other, do not take anybody into confidence and think that those of us who make the Budget have all the wisdom in the world. I am prepared to share the Budget making exercise with the various political parties, with other groups and in the process make the Budget making exercise more transparent and more open. What is the dilemma that a Finance Minister faces every time he makes a Budget? It is not peculiar to me. On the one hand, the Finance Minister is expected to make available resources, moneys and allocations in a much larger measure than he does through the Expenditure Budget. On the other hand, there are demands that the tax rates should be brought down, that a specific exemption should be given, etc. So, it is always very difficult for any Finance Minister to make ends meet in this kind of a situation where the pressures are, on the one hand, for reducing taxes and, on the other hand, to raise the expenditure. I am not aware of any magic trick which a Finance Minister can adopt to make this possible and that is why, we improvise. And if we improvise, then that issue is raised in various ways before this House. I think the time has come when we should apply our mind as a nation to the goings-on in the financial sector and t Budget-making not only of the Central Government but also of the State Governments. Indeed, as has been pointed out by various hon. Members, if you look at the fiscal deficit of the country as a whole, it almost ten per cent of our GDP. If it is ten per cent of our GDP, then it is really a matter of serious concern. And that is why, in this Budget speech, you will recall that I had tried to present this picture in very simple terms of how much do we receive, how much are we required to spend and what is the borrowing that all this entails. I have raised the issue of inter-generational equity. I said, in the present generation, we have really no right to impose this burden on future generations by borrowing with both hands without discrimination and leaving the burden for the future generations. Sir, I would like that this matter should be debated. It is not an issue of whether we have reduced an outlay under a particular head or we have reduced the taxes. The whole issue of management of economy of this country is something which calls for much greater and urgent building of national consensus than has been possible so far. Therefore, I am appealing to all Members of the House to please cogitate about this issue and think about it seriously. Let us come up as a body with solutions which would make it possible for us to keep the finances and the deficit within manageable limits. The Government, on its part, has come up with Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Bill. I had introduced it in the winter Session of Parliament. Under the Bill, we are going to assume certain responsibility. The Bill is under the consideration of the Standing Committee. The Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance initiated the discussion today. I hope it will be possible for the Standing Committee to favour us with their Report in this regard very soon so that the Government could bring this Bill before both the Houses of Parliament. It could be adopted as a piece of legislation and we could get the better of this longstanding problem. Before I come to other issues, I think there is one issue which has been bothering Mr. Pravin Rashtrapal since yesterday. I saw him getting agitated about it and when he got an opportunity to intervene in the debate, he raised that issue once again. I may point it out because when we, as Members of Parliament, entirely depend on what we have read in a newspaper or any magazine, we tend to get misguided at times and that is exactly what has happened in this case. In the Budget which was presented last year, a typographical error had crept in the Receipt Budget. When I saw that this magazine had blown it beyond proportion saying that this is some kind of a cook-book and that we are so careless that we are repeating the same figures, I was myself concerned. Therefore, I decided to check it myself and found that there was a typographical or printing mistake in the Receipt Budget. The moment we realised this, we came to Parliament and presented a corrigendum in both the Houses of Parliament. The corrigendum is here in my hands and the letter that we had written to the magazine is also in my hands. The magazine did publish the letter that we sent. But what was the reply of that magazine? They said that the revenue officials with whom they checked had not heard of this corrigendum. If they had only bothered to telephone anyone in the Ministry, we would have clarified that that was a printing mistake which had been corrected within a few days of the Budget presentation. It happened just in one document of the Budget. It did not happen over a period of time. There was no question of four years. That mistake was corrected last year itself. I would like to assure Shri Rashtrapal that this year the Budget is according to the format of the Budget. In every document of the Budget, wherever we have to give the actual figures, the Budget Estimates, the Revised Estimates and the Budget Estimate of this year, we have given them. These are the four columns in which we have given all the figures as in the past. There has been no attempt on our part to hold back the actual figures. So, that was a point which I wanted to clarify because I thought he was a little bit concerned about this. Shrimati Margaret Alva was talking about growth rates. She said that high rates of growth had been achieved during the regime in which she was a Minister. And, she is very much concerned that somehow that momentum has got lost. Let me share some figures with the House. In the decade of 1990-1999, what was the growth rate in various major economies of the world? In France, it was 1.7 per cent; in Germany, it was 1.5 per cent; in Indonesia, it was 4.7 per cent; in Japan, it was 1.4 per cent; in Pakistan, it was 4 per cent; in the Russian Federation, it was minus 6.1 per cent; in Thailand, it was 4.7 per cent; in the U.K., it was 2.2 per cent and in the USA, it was 3.4 per cent. There were only three countries in this decade which had crossed the figure of 6 per cent. China, which led the race, was at 10.7 per cent, followed by Malaysia which was at 6.8 per cent, followed by India which was at 6.1 per cent. That is why, among these major economies, India has always been regarded as one of the fastest growing economies of the world in the decade of the 90s. I mean there were three Governments during this period. So, I am not saying that we have done greatly and somebody else has done poorly. I am saying that as a nation, we can be justifiably proud of the fact that we have been amongst one of the fastest growing economies.… (Interruptions) SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : The growth rate was 7 per cent when we were in power in 1996.… (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : If you just have one minute’s patience, I would tell about it. I was coming to that. I knew the position.… (Interruptions) SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA : Perhaps, it is not proper to compare the figures of developing economy to those which are highly developed economies. I mean, it is totally irrelevant. You have to compare your figures as of today to the earlier figures achieved in our national context.… (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Yes. I know about it. I did not lay a trap for you, Shri Scinda. It was not my intention to quote these figures and lay a trap for you. But you have raised exactly the point which I have in my mind. I was coming to it myself. What was the growth rate that we experienced in this decade? I have the annual figures here. Let us forget about 1991-92 because that was a crisis year. The growth rate was down to 1.3 per cent. It went up to 5.1 per cent in 1992-93; it went up to 5.9 per cent in 1993-94; it went up to 7.3 per cent in 1994-95; and continued to remain at 7.3 per cent in 1995-96. In the two years of Congress rule, it crossed 7 per cent. For two years, it was below 6 per cent. I am not counting the year 1991-92 because it was a crisis year.… (Interruptions) SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA : If you allow me for a minute, I would like to say that as far as the economic statistics are concerned, there is a time-lag involved. If you move a particular policy in year one, it takes effect really in year three. Therefore, please see what the effects of Congress rule are right up to 1997-98. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Not beyond. … (Interruptions) SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA : Then, comes your disastrous nosedive. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : I do not want to enter into an argument with you on this. I would be very happy if somebody could guide me and tell me as to when exactly the impact of the Congress Government’s economic policies ended. You are claiming that the impact continued when Shri Chidambaram became the Finance Minister during the U.F. Government, and the growth rate shot up to 7.8 per cent in 1996-97. If one has to believe you, then, it was the result of your policies. … (Interruptions) SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA : There was a time-lag. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINGH : I agree. So, the impact of the beneficial economic policies of the Congress rule continued beyond 1995-96 when they demitted office in the first year of the U.F. rule. Is it right? In the second year of the U.F. rule, which is 1997-98, the growth rate dipped to 4.8 per cent. … (Interruptions) SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA : Let us not make light of it. … (Interruptions) Please take it seriously. … (Interruptions) Every economist worth his salt knows that there was a time-lag of at least one year when economic policy makes its impact felt. It is a very serious subject. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : The first Government led by the Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, assumed office in late March, 1998. When we came into office, I remember looking at those figures. The growth rate that we had obtained as a country in the preceding yearwas 4.8 per cent. This is what we got when we assumed office. Shrimati Margaret Alva was saying that while they had achieved a continuous growth rate of over seven per cent, we have not been able to achieve six per cent growth rate. I just want to … (Interruptions) SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I said seven per cent. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : She said that they had achieved for three years seven per cent growth rate and we have not even been able to achieve six per cent. In 1998-99, the growth rate of the economy was six per cent; in 1999-2000, it was 6.4 per cent; and in 2000-2001, for reasons which I have just now explained, it is estimated to be six per cent. In the three years of the rule of the two Governments of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, there has been no year where the growth rate is less than six per cent. It has been either six per cent or more. That too, in the face of a severest national and international challenges. This is more important. I have repeatedly said in the House that there has not been one year – 1998-99, 1999-2000, and 2000-2001 – which can be described as a normal year. Not one year has been a normal year. If despite all these challenges we are achieving this growth rate, then, I think, it is not something we can be ashamed of. I am saying it is inadequate. I am the first person to admit that this growth rate is not sufficient for the kind of problems that this country is facing. Therefore, we have to achieve the target which the Prime Minister has laid and has set for all of us, that is, nine per cent growth rate on an average in the first decade of the 21st century. That is the target. … (Interruptions) If you shut your eyes in a dark room, Shri Bansal, you will see nothing. If you are determined to close your eyes in a dark room, I cannot help you. This is as far as growth figures are concerned. … (Interruptions) Many Members in the Opposition have raised the issue of the poverty figures. Now, anyone who is even briefly familiar with the manner in which the Government of India collects statistics is aware of the fact that the National Sample Survey Organisation is not a creature of the Government of India and the poverty figures are collected by the National Sample Survey Organisation. Shri Devendra Prasad Yadav also raised this issue. It is not a question of whether the Planning Commission deals with it or I deal with it. But the fact remains that the National Sample Survey Organisation has conducted, as it always does, the survey on the basis of large samples for the quinquennium, the five yearly survey of poverty in this country and the National Sample Survey Organisation was headed by a very distinguished economist, who, unfortunately, is not amidst us any more, because he passed away, Dr. Prabin Bisaria. He was the head of the National Sample Survey Organisation and it was under his leadership that the poverty figures have been collected for the five years, after 1993-94 and in that they adopted a different method. Sir, I am mentioning it because, again, Shrimati Margaret Alva was referring to this also – she had some piece of paper in her hand and she said that we have said this in the Economic Survey – but the fact of the matter is that in the earlier years, the survey was carried out on the basis of a 30-day recall period. It will mean that the enumerator, the investigator, will go out to somebody and ask: "what did you eat in the last 30 days?" If you were to ask me what I ate in the last 30 days, I will not be able to recall. Therefore, the world over, the recall period has been now limited to 7 days. But, in this country, we were carrying on with the method of 30-day recall period. What the latest survey of the National Sample Survey Organisation did was, they said: "all right; we will have a 30-day recall and we will also have a 7-day recall". So, they carried out the survey both on the basis of a 30-day recall, which is comparable with the past and a 7-day recall, which was an innovation and on the basis of both, they came to the conclusion about the number of people living below the poverty line. The difference between the two sets of figures was very marginal and, therefore, they said that the poverty level now, that of people living below the poverty line in this country, has come down to anything between 26 and 27 per cent. Now, there is a saying: "lies, damn lies and statistics". We can say what we lie, but we have not changed the system. This is the manner in which the Government of India has been collecting its statistics ever since and this is the manner in which statistics are being collected, the figures are being collected even today and, therefore, unless somebody comes up with something else, which is worthwhile, we have to go by the findings of this survey. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : Do not misquote me. What I said was that the Economic Survey itself – I quoted it – at page 193-194 gives a footnote, which says, because of the changes in the methodology of data collection, these estimates may not be strictly comparable to the earlier estimates of poverty. I am not saying it. I am quoting the footnote in the Economic Survey, which says the methodology has changed and, therefore, these estimates and these figures cannot be compared with earlier figures. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : What document is that? SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I am talking about your Economic Survey, which has a footnote. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : What document do you have in your hand? SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I am quoting from the Economic Survey. It has been quoted from the Economic Survey. I am giving the page numbers also. It is there on page nos.193-194. You check it. … (Interruptions) :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह फुटनोट मैं आपके :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कोट कर रही हूं। 18.00 hrs. 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : I have the Economic Survey in front of me. That is why I have caught hold of it. … (Interruptions) There are three footnotes in this document. I do not find in this what she has read from her document. … (Interruptions) This is the EconomicSurvey.… (Interruptions) SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA ( MUMBAI NORTH EAST ): Is it from the EconomicSurvey or from an article? … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : It is not my intention to embarrass the hon. Member. … (Interruptions) SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : It is a property of the House. Please send it to the Deputy-Speaker. … (Interruptions) It is misleading the House. … (Interruptions) Who has written that article? … (Interruptions) DR. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA ( SOUTH DELHI ): Sir, she has to produce that document. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: She has already quoted. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The Minister is replying. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : It is not my intention to join issue on such a small matter. … (Interruptions) I was only trying to clarify the manner in which the Government collected its statistics and, in this particular case, by an independent agency. We should not rubbish that very casually. … (Interruptions) I explained it also. … (Interruptions) That is why I took time to explain to the House the difference in approach. Naturally, in this House, on every occasion and on this occasion also, much concern has been expressed about the suffering of the Kisans. Cutting across party lines, the Members from this side also have spoken. श्री दे:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ोन्द्र प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा : उपाध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ादि आप अनुमति दें, तो मैं माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह जानना चाहता हूं कि नै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ानल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौम्पल :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो के अन्तर्गत जो पहले :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाार्:िण्;ाक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढर्;ो का औ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ात लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जाता था, लेकिन अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाी.पी.एल. के लिए न:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तौर-तरीका अपनाकर ३० दिन का ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारेज लि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा करने के क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कारण हैं और क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा करने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाल एप्रोच हो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकती है, इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;प:ण्;टीकरण दे दें। SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: Sir, on the question of agriculture and the concern that has been expressed here, a charge, which has been levelled against this Government, is that we are not concerned with agriculture. I am not going into the issue that has been raised by our friend, Shri Subodh Roy. उपाध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोध रा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा जी ने जो :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाा:ण्;ाण दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह एक रिकार्ड की तरह है जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ारा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ार :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजता है और :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजते-:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजते :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह रिकार्ड ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है कि घि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाते-घि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाते उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााज :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी अ:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा फटी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी निकलती है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए उन्होंने जो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें कहीं, मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझता हूं कि उनकी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों का :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाद मुझे उत्तर देने की आ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाकता नहीं है। कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाके द:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाने, क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हुआ, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा उन्होंने इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए कहा क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाोंकि उनके मन में कुछ :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातें :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ गई हैं और उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो मुक्ति नहीं पा रहे हैं, लेकिन मैं इतना ही कहना चाहूंगा…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोध रा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा (:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाागलपुर) : उपाध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मंत्री महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा हमारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों पर निरुत्तर हो गए हैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ालिए :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ो उत्तर नहीं देना चाहते हैं। श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : उपाध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मैं उन :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों का उत्तर देकर :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाम:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;र्ााद नहीं करना चाहता। मैं निरुत्तर नहीं हूं, उत्तर दे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकता हूं। श्री :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोध रा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी अगर आप हमारी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों का उत्तर नहीं देना चाहते हैं, तो कोई :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात नहीं, लेकिन ठेंग:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ी जी की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों का तो उत्तर दे दीजिए। श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : उनकी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाातों का उत्तर मैं उनको दूंगा। 1805 hours (Mr. Speaker in the Chair) 

What I have said about agriculture in this Budget has to be seen in the context of what I have said for agriculture in my three previous Budgets. It has to be seen in the context of the National Agricultural Policy, which this Government for the first time brought before the Parliament. No other Government had prepared the National Agricultural Policy. The credit for preparing the first ever National Agricultural Policy goes to this Government… (Interruptions) कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका परिणाम क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा निकाला ? आज कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान मर रहा है। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)आज कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान आत्महत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा करने को मज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाूर है। आप उनको मार डालने की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााजि:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा कर रहे हैं। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : अगर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की इतनी ही चिन्ता हमारे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााली :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकारों को थीं तो कम :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो कम :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह छोटी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात उनको कहनी चाहिए थी। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ठीक नहीं है। आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जाइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, । :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा तरह की नीति:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाां इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानी। अगर एक नीति कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाई तो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह कृ:िण्;ा नीति थी। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह रा:ण्;ट्री:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा कृ:िण्;ा नीति :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ानाने का काम पहली :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाार अगर कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी ने कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा तो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह श्री अटल :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहारी :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााजपे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाी की :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन को :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ााद होगा कि ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा मैंने पहला :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आपने डि:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ोट में पार्टी:िद्ृद्धड्ड;ापेट कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, फिर प्र:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;न क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों उठा रहे हैं। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : ज:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा मैंने अपना पहला :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट १९९८ में पे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा त:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट में मैंने कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाेडिट कार्ड की कल्पना की थी। आज मैं इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन में ख:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े होकर नम्रता के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााथ कहना चाहता हूं कि दे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ार में २८ फर:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारी तक एक करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; २४ लाख कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों को :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाेडिट कार्ड दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो जा चुके थे जि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी आउट:द्ृद्धड्ड;टैंडिंग २३,६९० करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो है।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोध रा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : कितने कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों की हत्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा की गई है। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : आप :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो कि कितने कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाान :त्हद्धद्ृ;ाेडिट कार्ड :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ांचित रह ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो हैं। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

MR. SPEAKER: Nothing should go on record, except Finance Minister""""s reply. (Interruptions) … * 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : मि:द्ृद्धड्ड;टर अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ठीक नहीं है। आप अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद में पूछि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मैं :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार का एक जिम्मेदार मंत्री हूं। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : फाइनें:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा :िहद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाल एक महत्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ापूर्ण :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;जैक्ट है। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : मैं जो कहूंगा, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह तथ्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों के आधार पर कहूंगा। तथ्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा अगर चु:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाते हैं तो उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी द:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा मेरे पा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा नहीं है। इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाका ध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाान आपको करना चाहिए। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह क्:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चेन ऑ:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार :द्ृद्धड्ड;ौ:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान नहीं है। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां पर कीमतों की :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात हुई। मैं :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ार्फ व्हीट और राइ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा की कीमतों के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाात करना चाहता हूं कि पिछले २० :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल में क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा :द्ृिद्धड्ड;थति रही। १९८१ :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो १९८५ में :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाानी इन पांच :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल के पीरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाड में व्हीट की कीमतों का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााल है तो ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारेज उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें ३५ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो प्रति क्िं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाटल की :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृद्धि हुई।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : आप उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाकी लागत मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाताइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान)अगर :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाही आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;ें नहीं देंगे तो हम पूछेंगे ही। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 
   
   

* Not Recorded 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : मि:द्ृद्धड्ड;टर अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ठीक नहीं है। आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जाइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, कि:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाानों का :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााल है। अगर हाउ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा को गुमराह कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ोगा तो क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हम चुपचाप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ों ?…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : अगर आप इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाहमत नहीं हैं तो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााहर चले जाइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जाइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। आप क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप रोज-रोज ऐ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाा ही कर रहे हैं। आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जाइ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो। ..( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान). कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, हम लागत मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा के :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाारे में पूछ रहे हैं। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहआपका फै:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। आप रोज-रोज क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं। ...( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मैं आपको आंक:ढद्धठ्ठह१२;े :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाता रहा था। १९८१-८५ के पीरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाड में ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारेज ३५ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो प्रति क्िं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाटल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा। १९८६-९० के पांच :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल के पीरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाड में ए:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारेज ३१ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो प्रति क्िं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाटल :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा। १९९१-९५ में कांग्रे:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा का :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान था। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें १६७ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा। कांग्रे:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा को :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाधाई हो, उन्होंने अच्छा कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। अचानक :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहुत :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृद्धि हुई और १९९१-९५ में १६७ रुप:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाढ़ा। उ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ामें आपका दल :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी दो :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा:ण्र्;ा :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ाा:द्ृद्धड्ड;ान में था।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : हमने खाद की कीमतों को घटा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा जी, हाउ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा में आपको हैंडल करना मु:द्रिठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;कल काम नहीं है, :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह :द्ृद्धड्ड;ामझ लें। :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाह ठीक नहीं है। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप क् :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Rs.31 went up to Rs.167, and in the next five years, that is, from 1996 to current year, 2001, the increase in these five years was Rs.230 per quintal, the highest ever. … (Interruptions) कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा, मुझे के:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाल एक मिनट :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलने दीजिए। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी नहीं, :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलिए। आप पहले चे:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ार की परमी:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान लीजिए। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : राइ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा के मामले में क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा हुआ? During 1981-85, it was Rs.32; during 1986-90, it was Rs.48; during 1991-95 it was Rs.155; and during 1996-2001, it was Rs.170. This is the figure for rice. This is the kind of support price that we have extended. … (Interruptions) कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृद्धि कितनी हुई लागत में, :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाह :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाता दीजिए। …( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

श्री :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ान्त :िद्ृद्धड्ड;ान्हा : जै:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पहले क:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी मूल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाृद्धि नहीं होती थी। अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप लोग क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं। आपको कोई क्लैरीफिके:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ान चाहिए तो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ााद में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोलिए। … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: What is this confrontation? … (Interruptions) कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : ड:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ल्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाू.टी.ओ. के द:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ा में :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाजट :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाना रहे हैं।…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

MR. SPEAKER: You must have some patience. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Mr. Speaker, Sir, the fact of the matter is that, as I have said in my Budget speech, we have moved from being a shortage economy to being a surplus economy in agriculture and we are still trying to deal with the situation with the tools of the past. That is the difficulty of the policy. And that is why, the policies are now being changed. I have, therefore, forthrightly talked about the management of post harvest technology. In Budget after Budget, I have talked about the management of post harvest technology, why is it that we have laid such emphasis on storage, and why is it that we are laying such emphasis on processing. It is because we want the farmers to get adequate price, economic price for their produce, and that can happen only when they can keep their produce. I have reduced the rate of interest on the bank charges. I have given enough encouragement to the private sector to set up storage facilities and transportation facilities in the rural areas including the cold chain. I have said in this Budget that there will be no excise duty, there will be zero excise duty on the processing of fruits and vegetables. This is the encouragement that has been given to the processing of perishable agricultural produce. And this coupled with what we are doing for watershed development and what we are doing through the accelerated irrigation benefit programme, all this is going to meet the requirements of farmers, which is basically water for irrigation of their fields, money for buying inputs, agricultural inputs, and marketing of their produce, and processing of their produce. I would only like to say that if the previous Governments had indeed this vision, and if they had bothered in the same manner in which we are concerned about these problems, then 53-year down the line, we would not have been today discussing this issue in this House, and India would have been, from the point of view of agricultural economy, a developed country like we should have been … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: He is not yielding. Nothing should go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह : :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार की इ:द्ृद्धड्ड;ा नीति के :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ारोध में हम और हमारी पार्टी के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ााक आउट करते हैं। १८१५ hrs. 

( तत्प:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चात् कुं:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ार अखिले:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह तथा कुछ अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहिर्गमन कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।) 

( तत्प:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चात् डा. रघु:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ां:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा प्र:द्ृद्धड्ड;ााद :िंद्ृद्धड्ड;ाह तथा कुछ अन्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाों ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहिर्गमन कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।) 

( तत्प:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चात् श्री :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाु:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोध रा:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहिर्गमन कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।) 

( तत्प:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;चात् श्री हरि :द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ांकर महाले ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन :द्ृद्धड्ड;ो :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाहिर्गमन कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा।) 

* Not Recorded 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : I have one word about the management of the food economy.… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Pawan Kumar Bansal, you are a senior Member. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : This Budget contains some thought about the management of the food economy. As I have said in my Budget speech, we will discuss this with the State Governments and try to arrive at a consensus which will be acceptable to them and acceptable to us. But let me mention this in this House because the question of food for work was raised. There are five drought-affected States. They are Orissa, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan which are badly affected by drought. Some of them are running second and third years. What is the decision that we have taken in the Government of India? To begin with, we shall give to each State Government one lakh tonnes of foodgrains, wheat or rice, free of cost. It is free of cost that we are making these foodgrains available to the State Governments.… (Interruptions) For that we have said, it is open-ended. Let the State Governments utilise this food on Food-for-Work Programme. Our godowns are open for them. They can pick up whatever quantity they want. We have a plan which is under discussion for extending it to all these State Governments who want to begin the Food-for-Work Programme in their States. Additionally, to meet the criticism that while foodgrain is rotting in our godowns and people are going hungry, I will tell you what is the plan which my colleague, the Food Minister, has come out with. It is Antayodaya Anna Yojana. Is it something that we should make fun of? It is for the poorest of the poor. There are one crore families in this country for whom we are saying we will make foodgrain available-- wheat at Rs.2 and rice at Rs.3. That is the new system which has been started, which has already been inaugurated by the hon. Prime Minister. It is depending on the manner in which the States are proceeding. Half the country is already taking advantage of this new scheme. In my 1999 Budget, I talked of the Annapurna Anna Yojana, where I said that we would make available 10 kilos of foodgrains free of cost to every old-age pensioner in the rural areas. That scheme also is now going on. So, we are using this grain to make it available to the needy people and to the needy States. It is our desire not to keep this foodgrain in our godowns but use it as much as possible. Part of it is also being exported. Dr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh has gone away but he raised the issue.… (Interruptions) You are making it. He said, ‘you are exporting it at Rs.4.15 and you are selling it to the poor people, people below the poverty line, at a larger price.’ We are making the foodgrain available to the State Governments at Rs.4.15. Anything which is being added to the price is being added to it by the State Governments taking into account their own requirements. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : Where is Annapurna Anna Yojana? None of us have seen it in our State.उन:द्ृद्धड्ड;ो पूछ लीजिए कि उनके :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। हमारे :द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाहां तो कहीं नहीं आ:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है, एक :द्ृद्धड्ड;ााल हो ग:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है।… (Interruptions) SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : Can you point out a single State where the scheme is in operation? MR. SPEAKER: Shri Jaipal Reddy, he is not yielding. He has not completed his speech. … (Interruptions) SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : Will you point out a single State where the scheme is in operation? I come from Andhra Pradesh. It is not in operation.… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: He is not yielding. He has not completed his speech. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Bhuria, please do not interrupt. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: This will not go on record please. (Interruptions) …* 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : The scheme has been formulated. The schemes have been communicated to the State Governments. As far as the drought-affected States are concerned, we were reviewing the position. If I am not mistaken and if my memory serves me right, three lakh tonnes of foodgrains have already been lifted by the State Governments and the Food-for-Work Programme is going on in various States.… (Interruptions) श्री कांतिलाल :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा : मध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा के :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाारे :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद गए थे…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, in response to other issues, I would like to say that .. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Kantilal Bhuria, you are participating in the debate and also making noise. What is this? Please resume your seat. SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : Mr. Speaker, Sir, please allow me. MR. SPEAKER: The hon. Minister is not yielding. He has not completed his speech. SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : Sir, he is yielding. Mr. Minister, the scheme has been formulated, the scheme has been communicated, but it has not been implemented. I challenge it here. … (Interruptions) Let the hon. Minister of Finance say on this. … (Interruptions) Let him point out a single State where it has been implemented. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Jaipal Reddy, please take your seat. SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : Shri Yashwant Sinha, communication and formulation are not the same as implementation. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Jaipal Reddy, please take your seat. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, what he has agreed to is on one thing. * Not Recorded 

श्री कांतिलाल :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा : :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ादन को गुमराह कर रहे हैं। अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं। आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जाएं। श्री कांतिलाल :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाूरि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा : मध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा प्रदे:द्रठ्ठद्धठ्ठ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ारकार ने :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाूखा राहत के लिए ७१५ करो:ढद्धठ्ठह१२; रुपए मांगे थे, :द्ृद्धड्ड;ा:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद गए थे…( व्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाधान) अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : आप :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ौठ जाएं। SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, I think what this needs is that the people like hon. Member Shri Kantilal Bhuria need to be taken on a study tour of the States where this scheme is implemented. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Madam, let there not be any running commentary. You have participated in the debate also. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Then he will be convinced. … (Interruptions) हाथ कंगन को आर:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा, पढ़े-लिखे को फार:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाी क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा। SHRI K. YERRANNAIDU ( SRIKAKULAM ): Shri Jaipal Reddy, both the schemes are implemented in Andhra Pradesh. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Let there be no cross talk. SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : No, it has not been implemented. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, I do not want to take much time of the House. There are a number of suggestions which have been made. I remember, Shri Shivraj Patilji has talked about acrylic fibre. He has sent me the papers. I will look into this. Kumari Mayawati raised the issue of tea and coffee and she said that tea is generally used by poor people. I have done nothing in this Budget to raise the prices of tea. No duties, no taxes have been raised either on tea or on coffee. SHRI P.C. THOMAS : The excise duty on tea may be withdrawn. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Excise duty withdrawal is another issue. But I have done nothing to raise the prices. It was a very popular thing for hon. Member Shri Pawan Kumar Bansal to say that we have reduced or brought down duties on cars but we have done nothing about bicycles. Cars or automobiles in this country were being charged duties at 40 per cent excise duty which was the highest. In the course of rationalisation, I have brought it down to 32 per cent. On bicycles, there is no excise duty. So, what do I do? … (Interruptions) SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : What I said was about your concern for the poor vis-à-vis that of the rich. I gave that example. I did not refer to any excise duty on bicycle. Please do not mislead us. … (Interruptions) Please do not mislead the House. I know what I said. I am very clear as to what I said. I said that the rich people are the favourite people for you. … (Interruptions) SHRIMATI SHYAMA SINGH : Sir, my question on employment generation has not been answered. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Madam, he is not yielding. Please take your seat. SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : I have just given the example. The poor people are defecating in the open. That is what I said. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : This charge is very easy to make because this is one charge that you can level against any one in the Government without having an iota of evidence. … (Interruptions) SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : As I said, the poor people are defecating in the open. What do you say about it? … (Interruptions) अध्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाक्ष महोद:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ां:द्ृद्धड्ड;ाल जी आप क्:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा कर रहे हैं, अ:द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी उन्होंने ज:ठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ाा:हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ा खत्म नहीं कि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा है। SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : The poor people have been taken more care of in the past three years than what they have been taken care of in the last fifty years. Let me make it clear. … (Interruptions) SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : You have twisted my words on your own. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, I have one last word. SHRI RAMDAS ATHAWALE : Sir, please allow me for a minute. MR. SPEAKER: Shri Athawale, the hon. Minister has not yielded. Please take your seat. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, this Budget was prepared in the shadow of the aftermath of the Gujarat tragedy. Therefore, I have said what the Government had done and was proposing to do, in my Budget Speech, but I would just like to take a few minutes because Shri Pravin Rashtrapal has raised this issue. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I want a reply also. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : That is what I am coming to. Sir, one or two days after the Gujarat tragedy, I had made a statement that we shall be approaching international multilateral agencies for assistance and I am glad to be able to tell the House that as I had said then, responding to the request of the Government of India, the World Bank has sanctioned one billion dollars, which is Rs. 4,700 crore, as aid to Gujarat, and the Asian Development Bank has already agreed to give us 500 million dollars worth of assistance for Gujarat. Separately, the two housing agencies, the National Housing Bank and the HUDCO, have been allowed to raise Rs. 2,000 crore through tax-free bonds. We have made money available to the Gujarat Government. When the Prime Minister went there, he announced assistance of Rs. 500 crore immediately on the spot and another Rs. 330 crore have been released. We have assured the Government of Gujarat that money will not be a problem, that the Government of India is fully behind the Gujarat Government in making funds available for rehabilitation. Now, I am coming to the point which Shri Rashtrapal has raised about the two per cent surcharge. Let me explain briefly what is the policy which has been laid down by the Eleventh Finance Commission in this regard. The Eleventh Finance Commission has said that there will be a corpus of Rs. 500 crore only, which will be called the National Calamity Contingency Fund, My colleague, the Agriculture Minister, who is the Chairman of the Committee on this at the Central level, is sitting here. You will recall that I had provided for Rs. 500 crore for the corpus in the Winter Session of Parliament. I came to Parliament and secured your approval for imposing a tax of one per cent by way of surcharge on corporate tax, through which we were hoping to replenish this amount. This money has already been spent and, therefore, we came again to you and we took your permission to raise money for Gujarat Earthquake relief through a two per cent surcharge on income tax, and my estimate was that we would be able to raise Rs. 1,300 crore. This is a surcharge that we have continued in the current year also. The total amount which will be to the extent of Rs. 2,600 crore, will also be made available only to Gujarat. Let me make it very clear. There is no question of diverting this money. But the only difference that I have with Shri Rashtrapal is that it will go to the National Calamity Contingency Fund because that is the Fund at the Central level, and through that Fund, it will go to Gujarat. Let us not quarrel about these small things. The money is going to Gujarat. We are not even taking our administrative charge from it. So, do not bother about it. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : The question is that a Committee of five Chief Ministers will decide. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : No, it is not so. It has all changed. It is not a Committee of five Chief Ministers; it is a Committee headed by Agriculture Minister which consists of Finance Minister and Deputy-Chairman of Planning Commission. The three of us can meet any day and give the money to whoever needs it, and that is exactly how we are doing it very speedily and very conscientiously. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : This two per cent surcharge should go to Gujarat. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : I am assuring you, I am saying it on the floor of the House. What greater assurance do you need? SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Thank you. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, a number of other suggestions have been made, of which I have taken note. There are other larger issues and specially, hon. Shri Shivraj V. Patil has raised the question of ethics in economics. He has raised the question of World Trade Organisation and the question of discussing here the Five Year Plans and the mid-term review of the Plans. A number of other issues have been raised by friends cutting across party lines. Kumari Mayawati has particularly raised the issue of the rural sector and the weaker section. Let me say on behalf of the Government that ….. SHRIMATI SHYAMA SINGH : What about my question of employment generation. It has not been answered. That is a major question. Will the hon. Minister just reply to that? SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Shrimati Shyama Singh, you are just getting little impatient. I was reserving that for the end because you were the last speaker. These are issues which have been debated in this House from time to time. I do not want to take your time. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAKASH PARANJPE : The chamber-based tax on textile processing industries should be extended for two more years. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : I have said that all the suggestions which have been made have been taken note of by me. Now, coming to the last part which Shrimati Shyama Singh referred to, that is, the question of employment generation … (Interruptions) SHRI K. YERRANNAIDU : Before that, regarding garment industry, so many representations have been made. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : When I moved the Bill for consideration, I have already announced this. On the general issue of employment generation, we have repeatedly said that employment generation is at the very core, at the centre of our economic policy. This Government does not want jobless growth and, therefore, we have done a great deal. You are saying where is that one crore. Because anyone who takes VRS is before us, they are larger than life, but the jobs which are being created are not before our eyes because that is not making news. If we are spending Rs. 2,500 crore every year on rural roads if we are going to build 7,000 kilometres of national highways under the Prime Minister’s Programme of National Highways for which contracting has been done and the rest of it is going to be completed by 30th June, and the work is in progress, if the housing is picking up, if software exports are taking place, if IT-enabled services are happening in this country, if all this is happening and the economy is growing by six per cent, this is not being done by ghosts, this is being done by people, and those people are getting employment. The figures take a little time in coming because if I were to give you any figure, then you will say, "What is the basis for that?" I do not want to give you a figure which is not based on some survey. I am awaiting those figures. I can say with some confidence that all the economic activity which is taking place, the kind of encouragement that we have given to the small-scale sector, the kind of encouragement that we have given to the informal sector through the self-help groups -- for instance, look at the number of self-help groups that they have formed in Andhra Pradesh, in Gujarat, in Tamil Nadu … (Interruptions) SHRI K. YERRANNAIDU : In Andhra Pradesh, their number is 3,50,000. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Just imagine the number of families who have augmented their income. There is a burst of activity in the rural areas as a result of this. Therefore, Sir, my plea is that employment is being generated substantially. The figures will take a little time; I do not want to say anything in an irresponsible fashion. But the Government is fully aware of the fact that the end result of all economic policies has to be employment and, through employment, the common man, the poor man of India, should be benefited. That will continue to be the thrust of our policy under the leadership of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Let me assure the House once again that we have delivered in the past, and we shall continue to deliver. MR. SPEAKER: Shri Shivraj Patil. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I will just have to clarify one thing, Sir. MR. SPEAKER: I have called the name of Shri Shivraj Patil. SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : Sir, we have not criticised everything that is contained in the Budget, but there has been a uniform criticism levelled against this Budget. The uniform criticism is that many concessions have been given for the industries and for developing the capital market but there are no visible concessions in the Budget that would go to show that some relief has been given to the common man. There are no visible concessions that would go to show that the farmers could get relief and that employment could be generated. The hon. Finance Minister has explained that employment would be generated by implementing … (Interruptions) the Prime Minister’s Yojana for constructing roads for villagers. He has also said that there would be time required for generating that employment and this would trickle down in due course of time. But there is no scheme in the Budget that could directly help to remove unemployment. The charge and complaint that has been made, not only by the Members of Parliament of this party but by other parties, is that there is nothing visible in the Budget to show that it would help the common man, or help to generate employment, or help the agriculturists… (Interruptions) Sir, we have pointed out that income tax on lottery has been reduced, customs duty on cars has been reduced and at the same time, the interest rate in the Provident Fund also has been reduced. The NABARD, the small scale industries and the Housing Bank would now be charged with income tax. These organisations would now have to pay income tax. These taxation provisions go to show that care has been taken to help those who are well to do but enough care has not been taken to help those who really need the help. This aspect has not been 

explained by the hon. Finance Minister. We expected that he would, in clear terms, explain these issues rather than just referring to the performance in other years. He should have explained these things by referring to the provisions in the Budget itself. MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. MR. SPEAKER: The House would now take up clause by clause consideration. Clauses 2 and 3 Income Tax and 

Amendment of Sections 2 

MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. Clauses 2 and 3 were added to the Bill. Clause 4 Amendment of Section 9 Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 4, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clause 5 Amendment of Section 10 Amendments made : ‘(e) in clause (23C),- in the third proviso,- ‘(b) after the eighth proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2002, namely:- The motion was adopted. Clause 5, as amended, was added to the Bill. …….… 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clause 6 Amendment of Section 10A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 6, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clause 7 Amendment of Section 10B 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, before I move Amendment No.31, I would like to say something. On MPLADS we have had a meeting under your chairmanship. Let me explain to the hon. Members of the House that there is a Committee headed by the hon. Speaker which takes decisions in these matters. This request also must be addressed to that Committee. I cannot substitute for that Committee. So, let the Speaker take care of it. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Hon. Members, you are not properly discharging your duties in the House as Members of Parliament but you are asking for more power! Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 7, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 8 and 9 were added to the Bill. Clause 10 Amendment of Section 12A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 10, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clause 11 was added to the Bill. Clause 12 Amendment of Section 16 Amendment made : does not exceed one lakh fifty thousand rupees, a deduction of a sum equal to thirty-three and one-third per cent of the salary or thirty thousand rupees, whichever is less; exceeds one lakh fifty thousand rupees but does not exceed three lakh rupees, a deduction of a sum of twenty-five thousand rupees; exceeds three lakh rupees but does not exceed five lakh rupees, a deduction of a sum of twenty thousand rupees; (ii) a deduction in respect of any allowance in the nature of an entertainment allowance specifically granted by an employer to the assessee who is in receipt of a salary from the Government, a sum equal to one-fifth of his salary (exclusive of any allowance, benefit or other perquisite) or five thousand rupees, whichever is less;".’. (33) 

(Shri Yashwant Sinha) 

 

MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. Clause 12, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clause 13 Amendment of Section 17 Amendments made : The motion was adopted. Clause 13, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 14 to 20 were added to the Bill. Clause 21 Amendment of Section 32 Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 21, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 22 and 23 were added to the Bill. Clause 24 Inseertion of new section 35 DDA Amendments made : The motion was adopted. Clause 24, as amended, was added to the Bill. SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA ( GUNA ): Mr. Speaker, Sir, please allow Shrimati Maragret Alva to make her point. MR. SPEAKER: But I cannot allow her to make her submission now. SHRI MADHAVRAO SCINDIA : You may allow her in the end, Sir. MR. SPEAKER: All right. Motion Re : Suspension of rule 80 (i) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: Sir, I beg to move : MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. New Clause 24A and B Amendment made : 24B. In section 43 of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of April, 2002,-- (a) in clause (I), after Explanation 11, the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:-- The motion was adopted. New Clause 24A and B was added to the Bill. Clause 25 was added to the Bill. Clause 26 Amendment of Section 44AB Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 26, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clause 27 Amendment of Section 47 Amendments made : (Shri Yashwant Sinha) 
   
   
   
   
   
   

MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. Clause 27, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 28 to 31 were added to the Bill. ………… 

 

 

 

 

Clause 32 Amendment of Section 55 Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 32, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 33 to 38 were added to the Bill. Motion Re : Suspension of rule 80 (i) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: Sir, I beg to move : MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. New Clause 38A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. New Clause 38A was added to the Bill. Clause 39 Amendment of Section 80HHE Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 39, as amended, was added to the Bill. Motion Re : Suspension of Rule 80 (i) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: Sir, I beg to move : MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. New Clause 39A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. New clause 39A was added to the Bill. Clauses 40 and 41 were added to the Bill. ------- Clause 42 Amendment of Section 80L Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 42, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clause 43 was added to the Bill. Motion Re : Suspension of Rule 80(i) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: I beg to move : MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. New Clause 43A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. New clause 43A was added to the Bill. Clause 44 Substitution of new section for Section 92 Amendments made : The motion was adopted. Clause 44, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 45 to 53 were added to the Bill. Clause 54 Amendment of Section 139 Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 54, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 55 to 59 were added to the Bill. --------- Clause 60 Amendment of Section 154 Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 60, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 61 to 63 were added to the Bill. Clause 64 Amendment of Section 194A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. Clause 64, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 65 to 67 were added to the Bill. Motion Re : Suspension of Rule 80(i) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: I beg to move : MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. New Clause 67A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. New clause 67A was added to the Bill. Clauses 68 to 126 were added to the Bill. Motion Re : Suspension of Rule 80(i) 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: I beg to move : MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. New Clause 126A Amendment made : The motion was adopted. New clause 126A was added to the Bill. Clauses 127 to 129 were added to the Bill. ------- Clause 130 Amendment of Act 32 of 1994 Amendments made : in line 36,-- for "by a port", substitute "by a port or any person authorised by the port". (58) 

Page 38,-- in line 3,-- for "policy holder", substitute "policy holder or insurer". (59) 

Page 38,-- in line 7,-- for "by a port", substitute "by a port or any person authorised by the port". (60) 

Page 38,-- in line 9,-- for "automobiles", substitute "motor cars or two wheeled motor vehicles". (61) 

Page 38,-- in line 33,-- for "and", substitute "and includes". (62) 

Page 39,-- in line 18,-- for "commission", substitute "commission, fee or any other sum". (63) 

Page 39,-- in line 21,-- for "automobile", substitute "motor car or two wheeled motor vehicle". (64) 

Page 39,-- in line 28,-- for "automobiles", substitute "motor cars or two wheelded motor vehicles". (65) 

Page 40,-- omit lines 13 to 16. (66) 

Page 40,-- for lines 27 to 29, substitute— 

 

 

 

 

‘(k) in section 77 , for the words "two thousand rupees", the words "one thousand rupees" shall be substituted;’. (67) 

(Shri Yashwant Sinha) 

19.00 hrs. 

MR. SPEAKER: Shri Pawan Kumar Bansal, are you moving your amendments? SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL ( CHANDIGARH ): Yes, I am moving the amendments. I beg to move : substitute "the value of which exceeds five thousand rupees" (3) 

Page 37, lines 50 and 51, -- omit "or agency in relation to any kind of sound recording" (4) 

Page 38, line 30, -- omit "any professional videographer or" (5) 

MR. SPEAKER: I shall now put amendments No. 1 to 5 moved by Shri Pawan Kumar Bansal to the vote of the House. The amendments were put and negatived. MR. SPEAKER :The question is: The motion was adopted. Clause 130, as amended, was added to the Bill. Clauses 131 to 135 were added to the Bill. First Schedule 

MR. SPEAKER: Shri Pawan Kumar Bansal, are you moving your amendments? SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : Yes, I am moving my amendments. I beg to move : for "sixty thousand" substitute "one lakh twenty thousand" (8) 

Page 43, line 24, -- for "one lakh fifty thousand" substitute "one lakh seventy thousand" (10) 

Page 43, line 28, -- for "sixty thousand" substitute "one lakh twenty thousand" (12) 

Page 43, lines 31 and 32, -- for "one lakh fifty thousand" substitute "one lakh seventy thousand" (14) 

Page 43, line 34, -- for "one lakh fifty thousand" substitute "32 per cent." (16) 

Page 47, -- for lines 17 to 23, substitute – 

"Rates of income-tax 

(1) Where the total income does not 

exceed Rs. 1,00,000 Nil; (2) where the total income exceeds 10 per cent of the amount 

Rs. 1,00,000 but does not exceed by which the total income 

Rs. 1,20,000 exceeds Rs. 1,00,000 

(3) where the total income exceeds Rs. 2,000 plus 20 per 

Rs. 1,20,000 but does not cent of the amount by 

Exceeds Rs. 1,70,000 which the total income 

Exceeds Rs. 1,20,000. (4) where the total income exceeds Rs.12,000 plus 30 per cent 

Rs. 1,70,000 of the amount by which the 

Total income exceeds 

Rs. 1,70,000" (17) 

Page 47, line 29, -- for "sixty thousand" substitute "one lakh twenty thousand" (19) 

Page 47, -- for line 36, -- substitute "income of one lakh twenty thousand rupees by more 

than the amount of income that exceeds one lakh 

twenty thousand rupees." (20) 

Page 47, line 52, -- for "35 per cent." substitute "32 per cent." (21) 
   
   

MR. SPEAKER: I shall now put amendments No. 6 to 21 moved by Shri Pawan Kumar Bansal to the vote of the House. The amendments were put and negatived. --------- MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. The First Schedule was added to the Bill. The Second Schedule to the Eighth schedule were added to the Bill. Clause 1, the Enacting Formula and the Long Title were added to the Bill. ------ MR. SPEAKER: The Minister may now move that the Bill, as amended, be passed. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA: Sir, I beg to move : MR. SPEAKER: Motion moved: SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I am not raising any new point. Since the House felt that I was misleading the House, I just wanted to clarify my point. Here is the Economic Survey. … (Interruptions) I would like to go right on the record. मैंने :िठ्ठहद्वड्ढ;ात्त मंत्री जी को :द्रद्ृद्वदड्ड;ाी दिखा दि:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ाा था। मैंने गलती की थी, मैंने फुटनोट :हद्वद्धद्धड्ढद;ाोला था, but it is not a footnote. It is an explanatory note. What I said was that, because of the changes in methodology of data collection, these two sets of estimates may not be strictly comparable to the earlier estimates of poverty. I am just putting the records straight. I am not going beyond that. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Frankly, I was I misled or misread. I was looking at the footnote. I have seen the paragraphs that the hon. Member had mentioned. It is paragraph 10.15. एक माननी:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा :द्ृद्धड्ड;ाद:द्ृद्धड्ड;:द्ृद्धड्डढ;ा : ÉË|ÉÉË]MÉ ÉÊàÉ&ordm;]äBÉE cè* 

SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : It is not a printing mistake. If you read the whole paragraph, you will see that they are comparing the figures of poverty according to the thirty-day recall and seven-day recall. When they are talking about the seven-day recall, they are saying that because of this innovation, these figures are not strictly comparable. So, the comparable figures are based on thirty-day recall. Whereas the figures which cannot be compared or should not be compared strictly are the figures based on the seven-day recall. That is the point which I am trying to explain. MR. SPEAKER: The question is: The motion was adopted. 1905 hours 

 

The Lok Sabha then adjourned till Eleven of the Clock 

on Thursday, April 26, 2001/Vaisakha 6, 1923 (Saka). ------------------