1] This appeal is directed against the judgment and order 
 dated 22 January 2014 in Arbitration Petition No.1062 of 2012 

 instituted under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 
 1996 (the Act) restraining the appellants from withdrawing the 
 amounts retained by the Corporation Bank in the appellants' 
 account to the extent of USD 60 Million and in the event the 
 balance in the said account with the Corporation Bank is less than 
 USD 60 Million, a direction to the appellants to deposit the short 

 1 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 2 j-196.14

 fall in the said account, so as to maintain the balance of USD 60 

 
 Millions. The admitted position is that on the date when the 
 impugned judgment and order came to be passed, the amount in 

 
 the appellants Corporation Bank account was in the range of 
 Rs.60 Crores or USD 10 Million, which in terms of the impugned 
 judgment and order, the appellants have been restrained to 

 
 withdraw. Further, the impugned judgment and order issues an 
 interim mandatory injunction to deposit the short fall, i.e., about 

 
 USD 50 Million in the Corporation Bank within a period of four 
 weeks from the date of the order. 2] The factual matrix in which the aforesaid judgment 
 and order came to be made has been set out in great details in the 
 impugned judgment and order itself. However, a brief reference to 
 

 some pertinent facts and circumstances is necessary for the 
 

 purposes of appreciating the challenges raised in the present 
 appeal. 3] Appellant No.1 is a company incorporated under the 
 provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 having its registered office 
 at Mumbai (hereinafter referred to as "Avitel India"). Appellant 

 No.1 is stated to be engaged in the business of production of 
 animated works, media past production and film restoration 
 services. Appellant No.1 is a parent company in the Avitel Group, 
 inasmuch as it owns 100% share in Avitel Holdings Limited 
 (hereinafter referred to as "Avitel Mauritius"), which in turns owns 
 100% share in Avitel Post Studioz FZ LLC (hereinafter referred to 

 2 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 3 j-196.14

 as "Avitel Dubai"). Avitel Dubai was the entity represented by the 

 
 Avitel India and respondent Nos.2 to 4 (hereinafter referred to as 
 "Jains"). 4] Respondent No.1 is a company incorporated under the 
 laws of Mauritius and has its registered office at Mauritius 

 
 (hereinafter referred to as "HSBC"). Respondent No.1 is an 
 investment holding company for the Principal Investments Asia 

 
 Division of HSBC. 5]
 
 It is the case of HSBC that the appellants had 
 
 represented to the HSBC that the Avitel Group was at a very 
 advanced stage of finalizing a contract with British Broadcasting 
 Corporation (BBC) and had signed a MOU for the said purpose to 
 

 convert the BBC's film library from 2D to 3D and that such 
 

 contract was expected to generate a revenue of USD 300 Million 
 in the first phase, which revenue was expected to ultimately 
 increase upto USD 1 Billion. On basis of such representations, 

 which the appellants knew as being false, the appellants induced 
 the HSBC to invest an amount of USD 60 Millions for purchase of 
 equipments to specifically enable Avitel Dubai to service the BBC 

 contract. The appellants also represented to the HSBC that the 
 Avitel Group had the benefit of number of material contracts, 
 mainly with three customers, which contracts were valued in the 
 range of USD 658 Million. Again this representation was false to 
 knowledge of the appellants and was made solely for the purposes 
 of inducing the HSBC to make the aforesaid investment in the 

 3 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 4 j-196.14

 Avitel Group. 6] On 21 April 2011, the appellants and the HSBC 

 
 entered into a share subscription agreement, in terms whereof the 
 HSBC subscribed 7.8% of equity capital in Avitel India. This was 
 followed by a share holders agreement dated 11 May 2011. 7] Upon the HSBC acquiring knowledge that the BBC had 

 
 not entered into any contract with Avitel Group and all the 
 representations held out by the appellants in that regard as also in 
 
 regard to material contracts with three customers being false and 
 
 made for sole purposes of inducing the HSBC to make an 
 investment of USD 60 Millions, the HSBC on 11 May 2012 
 invoked the arbitration agreements under the Share Subscription 
 

 Agreement (SSA) and Share Holders Agreement (SHA) and 
 

 sought for emergency relief under the provisions of Singapore 
 International Arbitration Council Rules 2010 (SIAC). 8] The Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore passed two 
 unanimous final partial awards dismissing the jurisdictional 
 challenges raised by the appellants on 17 December 2012 and15th 

 March 2013. The jurisdictional awards, inter alia, hold as under:- (c) that the Arbitral Tribunal has jurisdiction to 
 adjudicate the disputes between parties under the 

 
 SSA and SHA. 9] The Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore has also granted 
 some interim measures in favour of the HSBC and against the 
 appellants on 28 and 29 May 2012. In regard to the SHA, the 

 
 Arbitral Tribunal has passed unanimous final award on 3 
 
 November 2013. In regard to the SSA, final hearing before the 
 Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore has concluded on 6 November 2013 
 
 and final award is awaited. 10] In the meantime, the HSBC instituted proceedings 
 

 under Section 9 of the Act seeking inter alia for the disclosures & 
 

 freezing of the appellants' bank accounts and further to direct the 
 appellants to deposit amounts to the extent of claims raised by the 

 HSBC, approximately to the extent of USD 60 Million in regard to 
 SSA and SHA, in which the impugned judgment and order dated 
 22 January 2014 came to be passed. 11] We have heard Mr.Saurabh Kirpal, learned counsel for 
 the appellants and Dr. Virendra Tulzapurkar, learned senior 
 counsel for the respondent at great length. With consent of 
 learned counsel for the parties, we propose to dispose of the 
 appeal finally. 5 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 6 j-196.14

 12] Mr. Kirpal, learned counsel for the appellants has 

 
 broadly made the following submissions in support of the appeal: The investment of USD 60 Million made by the HSBC 
 ceased to have character of 'investment' and was 

 
 effectively transferred into capital of the appellant 
 No.1 consequent upon issue and allotment of shares to 

 
 the HSBC. Such capital was in fact utilized by 
 appellant No.1 for purchase of equipments. Since the 
 
 case of HSBC is that, post investment, there has been 
 
 misuse or siphoning of the capital of appellant No.1 
 company, the HSBC can at highest initiate proceedings 
 under sections 397 and 398 of the Companies Act, 
 

 1956 for mismanagement. Further, as a share holder, 
 

 the HSBC can claim no rights in the assets of the 
 company, which is precisely what the HSBC seeks to 
 achieve by initiating arbitration proceedings and 

 application for the interim relief under section 9 of the 
 Act. This according to Mr. Kirpal is clearly 
 impermissible, both in principle and upon authority of 

 the Supreme Court in Hindustan Lever Employees v. 
 Hindustan Lever Ltd. (1995) Suppl (1) SCC 499 ; (b) The law governing arbitration agreement in the 
 present case, is the Indian law. This is clear upon 
 reference to clauses 15 and 16 of the SSA and 

 6 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 7 j-196.14

 corresponding clauses of SHA. In such circumstances, 

 
 the arbitration proceedings in Singapore are clearly 
 without jurisdiction. By instituting proceedings under section 9 of the Act, the HSBC virtually seeks indirectly 
 to enforce the interim awards passed by the Arbitral 
 Tribunal at Singapore. Since the arbitration 

 
 proceedings at Singapore are without jurisdiction, the 
 Indian Courts ought not to entertain the application 

 
 for interim relief under section 9 of the Act; (c)
 
 In any case and without prejudice, it was 
 
 submitted that the proceedings under section 9 of the 
 Act virtually seek enforcement of emergency award 
 dated 29 May 2012 by which the appellants' bank 
 

 accounts were sought to be frozen and directions 
 

 issued to secure the claim of the HSBC. Relying upon 
 the decision of the Delhi High Court in HFCL v. UOI 
 (OMP No.464 of 2009) decided on 18 August 2009, it 

 was submitted that a petition under section 9 of the 
 Act for enforcement of an award is clearly not 
 maintainable; (d) Assuming that arbitral proceedings were 
 competent in Singapore, for a foreign award to be 
 enforced or executed in India, it is necessary that the 
 conditions of enforceability set out in section 48 of the 
 Act are complied with. In terms of section 48(2) (a) of 

 7 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 8 j-196.14

 the Act, no award can be enforced if, the subject 

 
 matter itself is not capable of settlement by arbitration 
 under law of India. In the present case, the HSBC has 

 
 made serious allegations of fraud and criminality and 
 it is well settled that the issues of such nature are not 
 capable of settlement by arbitration. It is submitted 

 
 that if ultimately the awards that may be made in 
 Singapore are incapable of being enforced in India, 

 
 then surely there is no case made out for even 
 considering grant of interim reliefs by resort to section 
 
 9 of the Act, particularly as such interim reliefs are 
 
 meant to be only in aid of final relief. If no final relief 
 can be enforced in India, then there is obviously no 
 question of the Indian Courts entertaining in plea for 
 

 grant of interim relief by resort to section 9 of the Act; (e) Even otherwise, on merits the impugned 
 judgment and order is vulnerable, broadly on the 

 following grounds: (ii) On the basis of the allegations of fraud 

 
 made in the HSBC claim, the HSBC lodged a 
 first information report with the Economic 
 Offences Wings, Mumbai (EOW). The EOW, 

 
 upon detailed investigation has submitted a 
 report under section 173 of Code of Criminal 

 
 Procedure ( Cr.P.C .) recording a conclusion 
 that no case of fraud has been made out 
 
 against the appellants. Learned Single Judge, 
 
 ought to have considered this report and on 
 the said basis ruled that no prima-facie case 
 has been made out by the HSBC for grant of 
 

 any interim measures; (iii) In the present case, particularly since 
 no special circumstances have been pleaded or 

 established, measure of damages cannot be 
 the amount of loss ultimately stated to be 
 sustained by the HSBC. The measure of 

 damages, can at the highest be the difference 
 between the price which the HSBC paid for 
 shares and the price which HSBC would have 
 received, had it sold the shares in the market 
 forthwith, after the purpose. This principle, 
 which has been laid down by the Supreme 

 9 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 10 j-196.14

 Court in M/s. Trojan and C. v. RM.N.N. 

 
 Nagappa Chettiar - AIR 1953 Supreme Court 
 235, has been entirely ignored whilst passing 

 
 the impugned judgment and order directing 
 the appellants to deposit USD 60 Million, 
 which represents the entire share price paid 

 
 by the HSBC, allegedly on the basis of 
 fraudulent representation by the appellants; (iv) In matters of grant of interim mandatory 
 
 injunction, the applicant has to satisfy the 
 
 Court that its case is of higher standard than a 
 prima facie case which is normally sufficient 
 for grant of prohibitory injunction. This much 
 

 has been laid down by the Supreme Court in Dorab Cawasji Warden vs. Coomi Sorab 
 Warden & ors - (1990) 2 SCC 117. Inasmuch 
 as, this principle has been overlooked, the 

 impugned judgment and order calls for 
 interference; (v) The impugned order virtually grants 
 final relief to HSBC, at the interim stage. This 
 is clearly impermissible. 13] Dr. Tulzapurkar, learned senior counsel for the HSBC, 
 at the outset, submitted that : (b) The law governing arbitration agreement in the 
 present case is the Singapore law and not the Indian 
 

 law. The Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore, has already 
 

 passed two unanimous final partial awards dated 17 
 December 2012 and 15 March 2013 holding so. 
 Despite opportunity, the appellants have not chosen to 

 challenge the same and consequentially this issue of 
 jurisdiction has attained finality as between the HSBC 
 and the appellants. Accordingly, it was submitted that 

 by applying principle of 'issue estoppel' the appellants 
 are not entitled to even raise the issue of jurisdiction in 
 the proceedings under section 9 of the Act. The 
 provisions of section 9 of the Act clearly entitle a party 
 to an arbitration agreement to seek interim measures 
 before or during arbitral proceedings and therefore, 

 11 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 12 j-196.14

 there is no jurisdictional infirmity whatsoever in 

 
 learned Single Judge entertaining the application 
 under section 9 of the Act; (c) Relying upon several judgments of the Supreme 
 Court, including, in particular, the recent decision in Swiss Timing Limited vs. Organising Committee, 
 Commonwealth Games (Arbitration Petition No.34 of 

 
 2013) decided on 28 May 2014, it was submitted that 
 even under the Indian law, there is no bar to the issue 
 
 of fraud being arbitrable. The previous decisions of the 
 
 Supreme Court in N. Radhakrishnan vs. Maestro 
 Engineers and others- (2010) 1 SCC 72 and others, 
 which suggest a different view, are clearly 
 

 distinguishable and in any case have been held to be 
 

 per incuriam by the Supreme Court itself in Swiss 
 Timing Ltd (supra). As such, Dr. Tulzapurkar submitted 
 that there shall be no ground to resist the enforcement 

 of the awards that may be made by the Arbitral 
 Tribunal at Singapore, as and when occasion would 
 arise for such enforcement; (d) There is no requirement to establish allegations 
 of fraud beyond reasonable doubt in civil proceedings. 
 The test to be applied is and continues to be that of 
 preponderance of probability. Applying such test, 

 12 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 13 j-196.14

 learned Single Judge has rightly come to the 

 
 conclusion that fraud was indeed practised by the 
 appellants upon the HSBC, which fraud vitiated the 

 
 consent for the contract of investment; (e) In the context of Economic Offences Wing report 

 
 under section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 
 ( Cr.P.C .), it was submitted that the same was rightly not 

 
 relied upon or considered by the learned Single Judge, 
 since in terms of the provisions contained in section 
 
 190 of Cr.P.C., as also several authorities, upon which 
 
 reliance was placed, there arises no question of taking 
 cognizance of such report in civil proceedings. The 
 Magistrate to whom such report is made is empowered 
 

 to take cognizance of the offence irrespective of the 
 

 view expressed in the report or to direct the police to 
 carry out further investigation in the matter; (f) Relying upon the authority of the Supreme Court 
 in Wander Ltd. & anr. vs. Antoz India P. Ltd. - 1990 
 (supp) SCC 727, it was submitted that as an appellate 

 court, we should desist reassessment of the material on 
 record and seek to reach a conclusion different from 
 the one reached by the learned Single Judge, 
 particularly since the learned Single Judge has 
 reasonably and in a judicious manner considered the 
 material on record and exercised discretion by way of 

 13 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 14 j-196.14

 grant of interim measures. 14] The rival contentions now fall for our evaluation. 15] We are unable to accept Mr. Kirpal's contention that 
 the HSBC, being merely a disgruntled share holder could only 

 
 have resorted to the provisions relating to operation and 
 mismanagement of minority share holders in terms of sections 

 
 397 and 398 of the Companies Act, 1956. In the present case, the 
 HSBC is primarily concerned with misrepresentation and fraud, by 
 
 reason of which the HSBC was induced to enter into a contract of 
 
 investment with the appellants and part with an amount of 
 approximately USD 60 Millions in pursuance thereof. No doubt, 
 there is reference to siphoning of capital, but that is mainly in 
 

 support of the allegation of fraud and misrepresentation. This is 
 

 not a case where the HSBC accepts that the contract by which it 
 was induced to make the investment and purchase shares was 
 legal and valid and its grouse concerns only the subsequent acts of 

 mismanagement or otherwise by major shareholders of appellant 
 No.1. The HSBC questions the very contract, in terms whereof the 
 HSBC has made an investment of USD 60 Millions, as being 

 vitiated on account of there being no free consent due to fraud 
 and misrepresentation. The decision in Hindustan Level Employees 
 Union (supra), does not even remotely deal with a situation of 
 present kind. Accordingly, reliance placed thereupon is clearly 
 misplaced. 14 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 15 j-196.14

 16] On the issue of the law governing arbitration 

 
 agreement being the Indian law, Mr. Kirpal invited our attention to 
 clause 15 of the SSA, which reads thus: The counsel submitted that the law of arbitration 
 agreement, unless specified to the contrary will follow the 

 
 governing law of contract. There is absolutely no indication in 
 
 both SSA and SHA that the law of arbitration agreement in the 
 present case, ought to be any law other than the governing law, 
 
 i.e., Indian law. In this regard, counsel placed reliance upon the 
 decisions of the Supreme Court in National Thermal Power 
 

 Corporation (NTPC) vs. Singer Company & ors - ( 1992) 3 SCC 551 
 and Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. vs. ONGC Ltd.& ors (1998) 1 
 

 SCC 305. 17] On the other hand, Dr. Tulzapurkar invited our 
 attention to clause 16 of the SSA, which reads thus:- 16. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 16.1 Arbitration

 16.1.1 Any dispute, controversy or claim 
 arising out of or in connection with this 
 Agreement, including any question regarding its 

 15 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 16 j-196.14

 existence, validity, interpretation, breach or 
 termination shall be referred to and finally 

 
 resolved by binding arbitration at the Singapore 
 International Arbitration Centre ("SIAC") in 

 
 accordance with the Singapore International 
 Arbitration Rules in force at the date of this 
 Agreement ("Rules"), which Rules are deemed to 
 be incorporated by reference into this clause and 

 
 as may be amended by the rest of this clause. 16.1.2 The seat of arbitration shall be 
 Singapore ... 16.1.6ig The parties waive any right to apply 
 to any court of law and/or other judicial 
 authority to determine any preliminary point of 
 law and/or review any question of law and/or the 
 
 merits, in so far as such waiver may be validly 
 made. The parties shall not be deemed, however, 
 to have waived any right to challenge any award 
 on the ground that the tribunal lacked substantive 
 

 jurisdiction and/or the ground of serious 
 

 irregularity affecting the tribunal, the proceedings 
 or the award to the extent allowed by the law of 
 the seat of the arbitration. 16.1.7 Nothing, in this Clause 16.1 shall be 
 construed as preventing any party from seeking 
 conservatory or interim relief in any court of 
 competent jurisdiction ... 16.4 Application of Arbitration Act
 Save for section 9 , Part I of the Indian 
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 ("the Arbitration Act "), the provisions of Part I of the 
 Arbitration Act shall not apply to the terms of this 
 Agreement." 16 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 17 j-196.14

 18] In particular, Dr.Tulzapurkar emphasized that the 

 
 parties had in terms agreed that any dispute controversy or claim 
 arising out of or in connection with the agreements, including any 

 
 question regarding its existence, validity, interpretation, breach or 
 termination shall be referred to and finally resolved by binding 
 arbitration at the SIAC in accordance with the SIAC Rules and that 

 
 the seat of arbitration shall be at Singapore. 19] Dr. Tulzapurkar, with reference to Clause 16.4, 
 submitted that the parties had clearly agreed that save for section 
 
 9 of the Act, Part-I of the Act shall not apply to the terms of this 
 
 agreement. Thus according to Dr. Tulzapurkar, the parties to the 
 arbitration agreement had clearly specified that the law of 
 arbitration agreement will be the Singapore law, notwithstanding 
 

 the position that the governing law for the purposes of the 
 

 agreement is the law of Republic of India. 20] In any case, Dr.Tulzapurkar submitted that the 

 appellants ought to be estopped from even raising such an issue, 
 in the light of jurisdictional awards dated 17 December 2012 and 
 15 March 2013, which hold in clear terms that the Singapore law 

 and not the Indian law was the governing law for the arbitration 
 agreement and the said jurisdictional awards have attained 
 finality, for want of challenge by the appellants. Dr. Tulzapurkar, 
 invoked the principle of 'issue estoppel' and relied upon the 
 decisions in Indo-Pharma Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited vs. 
 Pharamceutical Company of India - 1977 (80) BLR 73, Ishwar Dutt 

 17 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 18 j-196.14

 vs. Land Acquisition Collector and anr. - (2005) 7 SCC 190, 

 
 M.Nagabhushana vs. State of Karanataka & ors. - ( 2011) 3 SCC 
 408 and Bhanu Kumar Jain vs. Archana Kumar & anr. - (2005) 1 

 
 SCC 787, which lay down that a judgment after a proper trial by 
 the Court of competent jurisdiction should be regarded as final 
 and conclusive determination of the questions litigated and should 

 
 forever set the controversy at rest. This means that when a 
 proceeding based on a particular cause of action has attained 

 
 finality, the principle of res judicata which is a specie of the 
 
 principle of estoppel should be fully applied. 21] The principle of issue estoppel has been explained in 
 Wade & Forsyth on Administrative Law, 9th Edition at page 243 and 
 quoted by the Supreme Court in Ishwar Dutt (supra), as follows; 27] In HFCL (supra), learned Single Judge of Delhi High 
 Court was basically faced with a situation where interim measures 

 
 akin to those contemplated under Order 38 Rule 5 of CPC were 
 
 applied after making of arbitral award, but before its enforcement. 
 In this context, the learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court 
 
 observed that the applicant for interim measures, had neither 
 pleaded nor established any of the ingredients necessary for 
 invoking the provisions of Order 38 Rule 5 of the CPC as against 
 

 the Union of India. In that context, it was observed that powers 
 

 under section 9 of the Act are not the same as in execution 
 proceedings, where different parameters would apply. That apart, 
 the learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court was not 

 concerned with a clause akin to clause 16.4 of SSA, in the present 
 case which specifies that the save for section 9, Part-I of the Act 
 shall not apply to the terms of the agreement. The parties in the 

 present case have specifically retained unto themselves the right 
 to invoke section 9 of the Act in matters of seeking interim 
 measures in Indian Courts. Section 9 of the Act provides that 
 interim measures can be applied for before or during arbitral 
 proceedings or at any time after making of the arbitral award. 21 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 22 j-196.14

 28] It is to be noted that even without there having been 

 
 any emergency or interim awards from the Arbitral Tribunal at 
 Singapore, in light of the provisions contained in clause 16.4 SSA, 

 
 the HSBC could have invoked the provisions of section 9 of the 
 Act. Merely because, in the present case such emergency or 
 interim awards have been made by the Arbitral Tribunal at 

 
 Singapore, that would make no difference, particularly when it 
 comes to determination of the jurisdiction of the Indian Courts to 

 
 grant interim measures by resort to section 9 of the Act. 
 Ultimately, it has to be borne-in-mind that we are dealing with an 
 
 international commercial arbitration, where perhaps the 
 
 emergency or interim awards may be enforceable in other parts of 
 the globe, without any further ado, on account of inapplicability 
 of restrictions akin to those contained in sections 46 to 49 of the 
 

 Act. The decisions in HFCL (supra) is clearly distinguishable, 
 

 particularly as no such issues at all arose in the said case. 29] Mr. Kirpal, then laboured extensively upon his 

 submission that in terms of section 48(2)(a) of the Act, any award 
 that may be passed by the Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore would be 
 incapable of being enforced in India, as according to him the 

 subject matter of the present dispute was not at all capable of 
 settlement by arbitration under the law of India. In this regard, 
 Mr. Kirpal submitted that the HSBC has leveled serious allegations 
 of fraud and even impersonation. Based upon the very same 
 allegations, the HSBC even went to the extent of lodging a First 
 Information Report (FIR) against the appellants invoking the 

 22 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 23 j-196.14

 provisions of sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 120-B of Indian 

 
 Penal Code ( IPC ). These provisions deal with offences of cheating 
 by impersonation, forgery for the purposes of cheating, and 

 
 criminal conspiracy. Mr. Kirpal submitted that it is well settled that 
 issues of serious allegations of fraud and criminality are incapable 
 of settlement by arbitration under the law of India. Therefore, in 

 
 terms of section 48(2)(a) , if any final award made by the Arbitral 
 Tribunal at Singapore is incapable of being enforced in India, then 

 
 surely, there arises no question of granting any interim measures 
 by the Indian Courts, particularly as interim measures are meant 
 
 to be only in aid of final relief. Mr. Kirpal placed reliance on the 
 
 decision of the Supreme Court in Afcon Infrastructure Ltd. v. 
 Cherian Varkey Constructions Pvt. Ltd. ( 2010) 8 SCC 24, Booz Allen 
 and Hamilton v. SBI Home Finance (2011) 5 SCC 532, N. 
 

 Radhakrishnan (supra)and Goldstar metal Solutions v. Dattaro G. 
 

 Kavtankar in Arb. Appeal No.12 of 2013 dt. 13 March 2013, which 
 according to him lay down that under the arbitration laws of 
 India, serious allegations of fraud or criminality are incapable of 

 settlement by arbitration. 30] Having considered the aforesaid submissions and 

 having perused the decisions as aforesaid, we are of the opinion, 
 that said judgments do not lay down any general or peremptory 
 rule that allegations of fraud, in all cases, are incapable of 
 settlement by arbitration under the law of India. There is a real 
 though subtle difference between 'suitability' and 'arbitrability' in 
 the context of subject matter of disputes. In order to be conscious 

 23 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 24 j-196.14

 of this difference, regard shall have to be had to the nature of 

 
 allegations, the context in which the same are made and the 
 ultimate relief which is being applied for on basis of such 

 
 allegations. If the subject matter of dispute has an eminently civil 
 profile, then it may not be proper to conclude that the subject 
 matter of dispute is incapable of settlement by arbitration, merely 

 
 because fraud or misrepresentation as defined under Section 17 and 18 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 may have been alleged as 

 
 one of the grounds for questioning the contract. 31]
 
 In the context of provisions of Contract Act 1872, 
 
 fraud and misrepresentation are some of the well accepted 
 grounds for questioning validity of a contract by the entity, upon 
 whom the same are alleged to have been practised. Section 10 of 
 

 the Contract Act, 1872 provides that all agreements are contracts, 
 

 if they are made by free consent of the parties, competent to 
 contract, for lawful consideration, with lawful object which is not 
 expressly declared to be void. Therefore, 'free consent' is one of 

 the essential ingredients for a valid contract under the Contract 
 Act . Section 13 of the Contract Act provides that two or more 
 persons are said to consent, when they agree upon the same thing 

 in the same sense. Section 14 of the Contract Act provides that a 
 consent is said to be 'free' when it is not caused, inter alia by 
 'fraud' as defined under section 17 or 'misrepresentation' as defined 
 under section 18 of the Contract Act. Sections 17 and 18 of the 
 Contract Act define in great details, the expressions 'fraud' and 
 'misrepresentation'. The principle difference between fraud and 

 24 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 25 j-196.14

 misrepresentation is that in cases of fraud the person, who makes 

 
 the representation does not himself believe it to be true, whilst in 
 cases of misrepresentation, the person himself believes it to be 

 
 true. Thus, 'fraud' and 'misrepresentation' as defined under sections 
 17 and 18 of the Contract Act are well accepted grounds which 
 would vitiate 'free consent' and consequently the contract itself. Therefore, as a general rule, it cannot be said that the moment 
 allegations of fraud and misrepresentation are made in the 

 
 context of a contract, the subject matter of the dispute is rendered 
 incapable of resolution by arbitration. 32] In Booz Allen and Hamilton (supra), upon which 
 reliance was placed by Mr. Kirpal, the Supreme Court has noted 
 with approval its earlier decision in Olympus Superstructures (P) 
 

 Ltd. v. Meena Vijay Khetan , (1999) 5 SCC 651, in which the 
 

 contention that a dispute relating to specific performance of a 
 contract cannot be referred to arbitration, was repelled. In the 
 said decision , the Supreme Court did observe that certain disputes 

 like criminal offences of a public nature, disputes as to status such 
 as divorce cannot be referred to arbitration. It was further held 
 that if in respect of the facts relating to a criminal matter, say, 

 physical injury, if there is a right to damages for personal injury, 
 then such a dispute can be referred to arbitration (Keir v. Leeman, 
 (1846) 9 QB 371). Similarly, it was held that a husband and a 
 wife may refer to arbitration, the terms on which they shall 
 separate, because they can make a valid agreement between 
 themselves on that matter. 25 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 26 j-196.14

 33] In paragraph 23 of the decision in N. Radhakrishnan 

 
 (supra), the Supreme Court has held that the facts of the said case 
 do not warrant the matter to be tried and decided by the 

 
 arbitrator, rather, for furtherance of justice, it should be tried in a 
 court of law which would be more competent and have the means 
 to decide such complicated matters involving various questions 

 
 and issues raised in the dispute. Similarly, in paragraph 26, the 
 Supreme Court after noticing the allegation made, has held that 

 
 the disputes cannot be 'properly' dealt with by the arbitrator. It 
 does appear therefore, that the Supreme Court was concerned 
 
 with the issue of 'suitability' rather than 'arbitrability' of the 
 
 disputes. 34] In any case, the Supreme Court in Swiss Timing 
 

 Limited (supra), upon analysis of its decision in N. Radhakrishnan 
 

 (supra) has held that the decision in N. Radhakrishnan (supra) is 
 'per incuriam' on two grounds: 26 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 27 j-196.14

 35] Mr. Kirpal, however contended that the decision of the 

 
 Supreme Court in Swiss Timing (supra) was rendered by a Single 
 Judge whereas the decision in N.Radhakrishnan (supra) is by a 

 
 bench of two Judges and therefore we must follow the principle 
 laid down in N.Radhakrishnan(supra). 36] Mr. Kirpal, then invited out attention to paragraph 35 
 in the decision of Swiss Timing (supra), wherein it is observed 

 
 thus: .. (emphasis supplied) 

 37] Based upon the aforesaid italicised portion, Mr. Kirpal 
 submitted that enforcement of any arbitral award, in which 
 allegations of fraud are upheld, can always be resisted. Therefore, 
 according to Mr. Kirpal, any award that may be made by the
 Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore upholding the HSBC allegation of 
 fraud against the appellants, would be unenforceable in India in 

 27 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 28 j-196.14

 the wake of categorical provisions contained in section 48(2)(a) of the Act. The parameters of determination at the stage of 
 reference to arbitration and at the stage of enforcement of an 

 
 award are different and distinct. This according to Mr. Kirpal, is 
 clear by reference to the aforesaid italicised portion of paragraph 
 35 in Swiss Timing (supra). 38] In the aforesaid regard, we must note that though the 

 
 decision in Swiss Timing (supra) has been delivered by a Single 
 
 Judge of the Supreme Court, nevertheless, the same is after taking 
 into consideration the earlier decision in N.Radhakrishnan(supra). There are two specific reasons indicated as to why in its opinion, 
 the decision in N.Radhakrishnan (supra) is 'per incuriam'. In such 
 circumstances, it is not open for us to follow the dictum in 
 

 N.Radhakrishnan (supra) even if we were to agree with Mr. Kirpal 
 

 that the said decision lays down absolute proposition that issues 
 of fraud are per se non-arbitrable. 39] Again, based upon the italicised portion of paragraph 
 35 in the decision of Swiss Timing (supra), we are not prepared to 
 accept that some broad proposition with regard to difference in 

 parameters at the stage of reference and at the stage of 
 enforcement has been laid down by the Supreme Court. In fact, 
 such a broad proposition may run counter to the decision of the 
 Supreme Court in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd.- ( 2005) 8 
 SCC 618 and Chloro Controls India Private Limited v. Severn Trent 28 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 29 j-196.14

 Water Purification INC & ors.-(2013) 1 SCC 641. But however, we 

 
 choose not to dilate on this issue, as in our opinion, the same 
 really does not arise for our consideration in the facts and 

 
 circumstances of the present case. 40] The HSBC, in its claim statement before the Arbitral 

 
 Tribunal at Singapore has alleged 'misrepresentation' and 'breach of 
 warranty' on the part of Avitel India and also sought for 

 
 indemnification from the 'Jains' in the aforesaid connection. The 
 
 HSBC, in paragraphs 73 to 83 of the claim statement has set out 
 the representations held out by Avitel India and the Jains, which 
 
 induced the HSBC to enter into the transaction documents and 
 invest USD 60 Million. It has been pleaded that all such 
 representations were false and misleading to the knowledge of 
 

 Avitel India and Jains. There is reference to contracts represented 
 

 as existing between Avitel India and Kinden, when in fact Kinden 
 was not even in existence during the period between 13 October 
 2010 and 25 October 2011, when HSBC invested in the Avitel 

 Group. There is similar reference to contracts, represented as 
 existing between Avitel and Purple Passion, which again was 
 stated as dissolved on 23 November 2010 and therefore not in 

 existence when HSBC invested in the Avitel Group. There is 
 reference to the role played by one John Linwood or rather the 
 person who is alleged to have played the role of John Linwood in 
 the context of BBC Contract, which ultimately never materialized. 
 There is reference to representations held out in form of tax 
 returns, accounts and legal compliances which were misleading 

 29 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 30 j-196.14

 and untrue, to the knowledge of Avitel and Jains. On such basis, 

 
 HSBC has raised a claim for damages which is presently being 
 adjudicated by Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore. In fact, even the 

 
 final arguments have been concluded in November 2013 and the 
 final award is now expected at any time. 41] If the aforesaid allegations/pleadings as set out in the 
 claim before the Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore are taken into 

 
 consideration, then they establish an eminent civil profile of the 
 disputes that has arisen between the parties. The allegations of 
 
 fraud and misrepresentation are primarily in the context of fraud 
 
 and misrepresentation as defined under sections 17 and 18 of the 
 Contract Act or in any case principles analogous thereto. As noted 
 earlier, these are well accepted and valid pleas for questioning a 
 

 contract on the ground that such agreement was made without 
 

 free consent. Making of such allegations does not, in our opinion, 
 render the subject matter of dispute to be incompetent of 
 settlement by arbitration under the law of India. Besides, there is 

 no dispute whatsoever that the law governing arbitration 
 agreement in the present case is the Singapore law and that under 
 the Singapore law there is no bar to the arbitral adjudication upon 

 issues of fraud and misrepresentation. 42] For all the aforesaid reasons and in facts and 
 circumstances of the present case, we are unable to find fault with 
 the decision of the learned Single Judge on the issue of non 
 arbitrability of allegations of fraud and misrepresentation. 30 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 31 j-196.14

 Accordingly, we see no merit in Mr. Kirpal's submission based 

 
 upon non-enforceability of any award that may eventually be 
 made by the Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore upholding allegation 

 
 of fraud and misrepresentation levelled by HSBC against the 
 appellants. 43] Insofar as merits of the impugned judgment and order 
 are concerned, we must remind ourselves that parameters of 

 
 interference are limited to what have been set out by the Supreme 
 Court in Wander Ltd. (supra). In appeals against the exercise of 
 
 discretion by the learned Single Judge, as an appellate court, we 
 
 are not to interfere with the exercise of discretion and substitute 
 our own discretion, unless we are satisfied that discretion is 
 shown to have been exercised arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely 
 

 or where the Court has ignored the settled principles of law 
 

 regulating grant or refusal of interim measures. The appeal 
 against the exercise of discretion is primarily an appeal on 
 principle. In such an appeal, as the appellate court, we would be 

 loathe to interfere, solely on the ground that, if we had considered 
 the matter in the first instance, we might have come to any 
 contrary conclusion. 44] The criticism of Mr. Kirpal that the learned Single 
 Judge has returned prima-faice findings of fraud and 
 misrepresentation, merely on the basis of pleadings and without 
 there being any material to support the same, is unfounded. The 
 impugned judgment and order indicates that material in form of 

 31 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 32 j-196.14

 several documents has been taken into consideration to reach the 

 
 prima facie findings. There is reference to representations held out 
 by the appellants that the BBC contract was almost concluded or 

 
 in any case, would be concluded, no sooner the equipment 
 necessary for conversion of 2D films to 3D films is acquired. Such 
 representations, eventually turned out to be false, to the 

 
 knowledge of the appellants themselves. There is reference to 
 representations held out by the appellants with regard to contracts 

 
 with customers like M/s. Purple Passion valued at Millions of 
 Dollars, which representations ultimately turned out to be false, to 
 
 the knowledge of the appellants. In fact, there is prima-facie 
 
 material on record which establishes that the entity M/s. Purple 
 Passion had been dissolved even prior to the date of execution of 
 agreements between the parties. There is reference to some 
 

 material on record, which prima-facie suggest that no explanation 
 

 was forthcoming from the appellants as to the manner in which 
 USD 60 Million invested by the HSBC came to be spent. The 
 appellants placed no clear material on record in this regard, 

 thereby lending force to the contention of HSBC that out of USD 
 60 Million, an amount of almost USD 51 Million was circulated 
 back into the account of appellant No.3, in stead of being used to 

 purchase of equipments, necessary to secure the BBC contract. Applying the Wander Ltd. (supra) principle, this is no occasion to 
 re-appreciate the material on record. Suffice to note that the 
 prima-facie findings particularly in the context of grant of 
 prohibitory injunction, are by no means arbitrary, capricious or 
 perverse. 32 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 33 j-196.14

 45] Mr. Kirpal is again not right in his submission that the 

 
 standard of proof necessary in a civil case involving allegation of 
 fraud is the same as the standard of proof necessary in a criminal 

 
 case, that is, proof beyond reasonable doubt. In Gulabchand vs. 
 Kudilal & ors., AIR 1966 Supreme Court 1734, the Supreme Court 
 has ruled that the definition of the words 'proved', 'disproved' and 

 
 'not proved' given in section 3 of the Evidence Act makes it 
 apparent that it applies the same standard of proof in all civil 

 
 cases and it makes no difference between cases in which charges 
 
 of a fraudulent and criminal character are made and the cases in 
 which such charges are not made. This does not mean that the 
 
 Court will not, whilst striking the balance of probability, keep in 
 mind the presumption of innocence, but it is wrong to insist that 
 such charges must be proved clearly beyond reasonable doubt. 46] Insofar as the EOW report is concerned, the learned 
 Single Judge was quite right in not adverting to the same in light 
 of the provisions contained in section 173 and 190 of Code of 

 Criminal Procedure ( Cr.P.C .). There can be no dispute that the 
 EOW report is relatable to section 173(2) of the Cr.P.C. It is settled 
 position in law that when the Magistrate who is dealing with a 

 report submitted by the police under section 173 (2) of the Cr.P.C., 
 may either agree with the said report and close the proceedings, 
 or may take the view, on a consideration of such report, that the 
 opinion formed by the police is not based upon full and complete 
 investigation, in which case the Magistrate will have ample 
 jurisdiction to give direction to the police under section 156 (3) of 

 33 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 34 j-196.14 Cr.P.C . to make further investigation. Again, the Magistrate is also 

 
 empowered to take cognizance of the offence under section 
 190(1)(b) of Cr.P.C., notwithstanding any contrary opinion of the 

 
 police as expressed in the report. This position is made clear by 
 the Supreme Court itself in Abhinandan Jhaand ors vs. Dinesh 
 Mishra - AIR 1968 SC 117, M/s. India Card Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of 

 
 Karnataka & anr. - (1989) 2 Supreme Court Cases 132 and H.S. 
 Bains, Director Small Saving-cum-Deputy Secretary Finance, Punjab, 

 
 Chandigarh vs. State (Union Territory of Chandigarh )-(1980) 4 
 
 SCC 631. In light of this position, we see no error on the part of 
 the learned Single Judge in not adverting to the EOW report for 
 
 determining whether prima-facie case has been made out by the 
 HSBC or not. 47] In the course of arguments, Mr. Kirpal submitted that 
 

 learned Single Judge in exercising powers under section 9 of the 
 Act, has virtually proceeded to grant final relief to HSBC. Such 
 submission is misconceived. The interim relief as granted, 

 primarily directs Avitel India to secure the claim amount by way 
 of deposit/retention of the same in its Corporation Bank Account 
 in India. Final relief, if and when granted, would perhaps enable 

 HSBC to obtain the claim amount for its own appropriation. Thus, 
 this is not a case where learned Single Judge, in exercising powers 
 under section 9 of the Act, has proceeded to grant final reliefs to 
 HSBC. 34 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 35 j-196.14

 48] By the impugned judgment and order, however, 

 
 learned Single Judge has not only granted prohibitory injunction 
 restraining the appellants from withdrawing any amounts from 

 
 out of their Corporation Bank account, but further issued an 
 interim mandatory injunction directing the appellants to deposit 
 in the said account, an amount of approximately USD 50 Million, 

 
 so that there is a balance of USD 60 Million maintained in the said 
 account. Insofar as grant of prohibitory injunction is concerned, it 

 
 is sufficient if an applicant makes out a prima-facie case and 
 further establishes that the balance of convenience is in its favour 
 
 and that irreparable loss and prejudice would occasion the 
 
 applicant, in case relief of prohibitory injunction is declined. 
 However, when it comes to grant of interim mandatory injunction, 
 the position is slightly different. 49] In Dorab Cawasji Warden (supra) , the Supreme Court 
 has ruled that though the Courts have the power to grant interim 
 injunction, such power ought not to be exercised as a matter of 

 course. Interim mandatory injunctions may be granted generally 
 to preserve or restore the status quo of the last non-contested 
 status which preceded the pending controversy until the final 

 hearing when full relief may be granted or to compel the undoing 
 of those acts which have been illegally done or the restoration of 
 that which was wrongfully taken by the party complaining. The 
 general guidelines to be applied in the matter of granting interim 
 mandatory injunction are as follows: facie case, i.e., normally require for a prohibitory 

 
 injunction; (ii) It is necessary to prevent or serious injury 
 which normally cannot be compensated in terms of 

 
 money; (iii) The balance of convenience is in favour of 

 
 one seeking such relief; 50]
 
 In the aforesaid decision, the Supreme Court has itself 
 
 made it clear that the grant of relief of interim mandatory 
 injunction being essentially an equitable relief, the grant or refusal 
 of the same shall ultimately rest in the sound judicial discretion of 
 

 the court to be exercised in light of the facts and circumstances of 
 

 each case. Therefore, aforesaid guidelines can neither be regarded 
 as exhaustive nor complete or absolute rules and there may be 
 exceptional circumstances needing action, applying them as a pre- requisite for grant or refusal of such injunction would be a sound 
 exercise judicial discretion. 51] In Metro Marins & anr. vs. Bonus Watch Co. (P.) Ltd & 
 ors - (2004) 7 SCC 478, the Supreme Court reiterated the position laid down in Dorab Cawasji Warden (supra) that interim 
 mandatory injunction can be granted only in exceptional cases 
 coming within the exception noticed in the said judgment and 
 that the grant of interim mandatory injunction must not amount 

 36 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 37 j-196.14

 to grant of a pre trial decree. 52] Applying the aforesaid principles, we have to evaluate 

 
 as to whether pre-requisite for grant of interim mandatory 
 injunction could be said to have been complied with in the present 
 case. 53] As noted earlier, HSBC invested an amount of USD 60 

 
 Million in April - May 2011 contemporaneous with execution of 
 SSA dated 21 April 2011 and SHA dated 11 May 2011. The 
 
 decision to invest, was undoubtedly a commercial decision. Prior 
 
 to such decision, there is material on record which suggests that, 
 HSBC had carried out due diligence by engaging leading agencies 
 like Ernst & Young, Clifford Chance at an expense of 
 

 approximately Rs.3 Crores. 54] The disputes arose between the parties after about a 
 year from the date of execution of SSA and SHA, which is evident 

 from the circumstance that HSBC invoked arbitration agreement 
 on or about 11 May 2011. There is, however, no clear material on 
 record which establishes the position regards value of of 7.8 % of 

 equity capital held by HSBC in Avitel India soon after the 
 investment of USD 60 Million and acquisition of stake, to the 
 extent of 7.8%. Mr. Kirpal submitted that in absence of any 
 special circumstances, the measure of damages cannot be the 
 amount of loss ultimately sustained by the representee, i.e., HSBC. 
 The measure of damages, can at the highest be difference between 

 37 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 38 j-196.14

 the price paid by HSBC and the price, which the HSBC would 

 
 have received, if it had resold in the market forthwith after the 
 purchase provided, provided of course, there was a fair market for 

 
 the shares at that stage. In M/s Torjan & Co (supra), the Supreme 
 Court, when dealing with a situation where a party was 
 fraudulently induced to purchase shares and consequently 

 
 suffered damages has, observed thus:- 38 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 39 j-196.14

 55] The HSBC claim statement before the Arbitral Tribunal 

 
 at Singapore seems to accept, or at any rate indicate 
 consciousness, as regards the aforesaid position. In respect of 

 
 misrepresentation, HSBC has claimed damages to the extent of its 
 investment sum of USD 60 Million, "less the value of HSBC 
 investment in Avitel India to be assessed, but likely nil". In these 

 
 circumstances, it cannot be said that HSBC had made out a case of 
 a standard higher than a prima-facie case, requisite for an interim 

 
 mandatory injunction to require Avitel India to deposit the entire 
 amount of USD 60 Million in its Corporation Bank Account in 
 
 India by way of security. It must be noted that in this case HSBC 
 
 has also not offered to sell or surrender its shares/equities in 
 Avitel India, but rather, HSBC seeks to retain the same whilst 
 seeking damages proportionate to its entire extent of investment. 56] As noticed earlier, an interim mandatory injunction 
 can only be granted in exceptional cases and that too preserve or 
 restore status quo of the last non-contesting status, which 

 preceded the controversy. The grant of interim mandatory 
 injunction must not amount to grant of pre trial decree. Such 
 relief is essentially an equitable relief and discretion in that regard 

 has to be exercised in light of facts and circumstances of each 
 case. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of 
 the opinion that interests of justice would be served, if the 
 appellants are directed to deposit an additional amount equivalent 
 to USD 20 Million in its Corporation Bank Account at Mumbai, 
 so that total deposit in the said account is maintained at USD 30 

 39 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 ::: 40 j-196.14

 Million. This is on the basis that the HSBC can be said to have 

 
 made out a fairly strong case, of a standard higher than a mere 
 prima-facie case, for an award of such amount in the aribtral 

 
 proceedings at Singapore. This direction to deposit, is certainly, 
 without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties 
 before the Arbitral Tribunal at Singapore. Accordingly, we may not 

 
 be taken to have expressed any final opinion either upon the 
 merits of the contentions of either parties or quantum of 

 
 damages. 57]
 
 For the aforesaid reasons, we partly allow the present 
 
 appeal. The direction to the appellants to deposit the shortfall in 
 the Corporation Bank Account at Mumbai, so as to maintain 
 balance of USD 60 Million is substituted by a direction to the 
 

 appellants to deposit the shortfall in the said account, so as to 
 

 maintain a balance of USD 30 Million within four weeks from 
 today. Save and except the aforesaid modification, rest of the 
 directions in the impugned judgment and order dated 22 January 

 2014, are hereby upheld and maintained. 58] Appeal is disposed of accordingly. In the facts and 

 circumstances of the present case, there shall be no order as to 
 costs. (CHIEF JUSTICE)

 (M.S.SONAK, J.)
 dssherla

 40 of 40 ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2014 23:50:06 :::