1. With the consent of the learned advocates appearing for the
respective parties, the matter is taken up for final disposal. 2. Issue Rule, returnable forthwith. Mr Jenil M. Shah, learned
advocate waives service of notice of Rule on behalf of respondent
no.1. Though served, nobody has entered appearance for rest of the Page 1 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

respondents. 3. The captioned Civil Revision Application has been filed
challenging the order dated 25.4.2018 passed below Exh.11 in
Regular Civil Suit no.325 of 2013 with a further prayer to allow the
application, Exh.11 praying for rejection of the plaint under Order VII
Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (hereinafter referred to
as "the Code"). 4. Tersely stated are the facts, emerging from the record of the
captioned application. 4.1. Issue, in the present proceeding, revolves around survey
no.1130. Promulgation entry no.447 was posted on 6.2.1953 in the
revenue record with respect to survey nos.1129/2, 1130 and 1144/1
wherein, owing to the death of the Musa Pira, names of two sons,
namely, Isaa Musa and Siddi Musa were to be shown; however, both
of them having passed away, names of Abdulla Siddi and Ishaa
Siddi, i.e. the heirs of Siddi Musa were mutated. 4.2. Vide registered sale deed dated 15.11.1964, the land bearing
survey no.1130 came to be purchased and entry no.2506 dated
29.3.1965 was posted in the revenue record. Subsequent thereto,
Babulal Maganlal Kankhara executed a registered sale deed dated
22.1.1965 in favour of Mahant Ramswarupasji Gurushantidasji
Maharaj and entry no.2507 dated 29.3.1965, was posted in the
revenue record who, in turn, executed a registered sale deed dated
18.1.1986 for the land bearing survey no.1130 admeasuring acre -
1 - 30 gunthas in favour of Madhubha Devji. The transaction was
posted in the revenue record vide entry no.136 and was certified on
7.3.1986. Names of Manubha Devji and Narubha Devji were also
shown in the revenue record along with the name of Madhubha
Devji which, was vide entry no.170 dated 10.9.1986, certified on Page 2 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

13.10.1986. Upon death of Manubha Devji, heirship entry was
recorded and the names of all the heirs were posted in the revenue
record vide entry no.404, followed by certification on 23.2.1998.
Madhubha Devji and Narubha Devji waived their right over the land
in question which fact, was also posted in the revenue record vide
entry no.408 dated 20.3.1999; certified on 24.11.1999. The
petitioner, purchased the land bearing survey no.1130 paiki 3 vide
registered sale deed dated 18.7.2009, from the heirs of Manubha
Devji which transaction was also recorded vide entry no.924 dated
4.9.2009 and was certified on 6.10.2009. 4.3. On 4.9.2013, according to the petitioner after 60 years of the
promulgation entry no.447 dated 6.2.1953 and after four years of
the execution of the registered sale deed dated 18.7.2009 in favour
of the petitioner that the respondent no.1 i.e. the original plaintiff
(hereinafter referred to as "the plaintiff") instituted a Regular Civil
Suit no.325 of 2013 before the learned Principal Senior Civil Judge,
Jamnagar, seeking declaration that the plaintiff has right over the
land bearing survey no.1130 being the heir of Musa Pira and to
grant his share of land by partitioning the same. Further prayer is
also prayed for quashing and setting aside the promulgation entry
no.447 with respect to survey no.1130 and to quash and set aside
all the subsequent entries. The plaintiff, had also sought declaration
that all the transactions pursuant to and on the basis of
promulgation entry no.447, are not binding on the plaintiff. 4.4. Discernibly, prior to the filing of the Regular Civil Suit no.325
of 2013, another suit being Regular Civil Suit no.63 of 2013 was filed
by the plaintiff with identical averments and similar reliefs against
the owner of survey nos.1130 paiki 1 and 1130 paiki 2. An
application under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code, was filed which
came to be allowed and Regular Civil Suit no.63 of 2013, was Page 3 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

dismissed. Further proceedings are pending before the Court
concerned. 4.5. The petitioner, submitted an application, Exh.11 under Order
VII Rule 11 of the Code, praying for rejection of the plaint. In
response whereof, the plaintiff had filed a reply, Exh.25. The said
application, Exh.11 came to be rejected by the learned Judge vide
order dated 25.4.2018, which is subject matter of challenge in the
present Civil Revision Application. 5. Mr R.S. Sanjanwala, learned Senior Counsel with Mr Aadit R.
Sanjanwala, learned advocate appearing for the applicant, while
inviting the attention of this Court to the pedigree, submitted that
the plaintiff, claims to be the great grandson of Siddi Musa, and on
the basis whereof the suit has been filed with multiple reliefs and
one of which is claiming his share. It is next submitted that the suit,
filed by the plaintiff is barred by law of limitation as it seeks to
challenge the promulgation entry no.447 dated 6.2.1953, i.e. after
about 60 years of mutation and after 4 years of the registration of
the sale deed dated 18.7.2009 in favour of the petitioner. 5.1. It is further submitted that the father and the grandfather of
the plaintiff, had never challenged entry no.447. The plaintiff, was
not even born when the entry no.447 was posted. Bare reading of
the plaint, clearly suggest that it is not the case of the plaintiff that
the father or the grandfather, were not aware about the entry
no.447, and therefore, paragraph 13 as regards cause of action, is
nothing but a clever drafting. It is further submitted that in view of
the mutation of entry no.447 and subsequent sale transactions, it is
difficult to believe that the person goes to the Court and does not
say anything, except the discovery of two documents. When the
relevant facts are missing, it cannot be said that in the trial, the
issues are required to be proved. It is submitted that the Page 4 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

observations made by the learned Judge in paragraph 8, are
erroneous. The learned Judge, has observed that from the
averments made in the plaint, it cannot be said that the plaintiff
knew about the mutation entry since long and to ascertain such
aspect and pleadings, evidence is required to be recorded. 5.2. It is further submitted that as per the observations made in
paragraph 9, the learned Judge, while dealing with the contention of
cause of action has only discussed the law but has not discussed the
element of paragraph 13 inasmuch as, paragraph 13 does not
disclose the cause of action, considering the fact that the challenge,
is to the entry no.447 which, is after 60 years. Furthermore, if the
plaintiff, is claiming his share, he has nowhere stated as to how he is
entitled to share. What right he has derived. From the year 1953 till
the year 2013, no steps were taken by the plaintiff and only with a
view to coming out of the limitation, fraud has been pleaded and
when fraud is pleaded, one needs to come out with exact date, the
commission of the fraud; however, in the present case, proper
disclosure much less the exact date with precision of commission of
the fraud is missing. It is submitted that as to why the grandfather
and the father have not challenged the entry, more particularly,
when the father is still alive and is party to the proceedings, is not
coming forth. 5.3. It is submitted that the aspect of cause of action, has been
dealt with by the learned Judge in paragraph 11. Except stating that
as to whether the averments are factually correct and whether it
discloses a cause of action, are the questions to be decided at the
stage of trial, nothing has been stated. What has been lost sight is
the fact that the suit is filed after 60 years, challenging the
promulgation entry no.447 and the subsequent sale deeds. After the
year 1953, transactions in succession have taken place and now the Page 5 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

petitioner, is the owner. Given a meaningful reading to the contents
of the plaint, it shows that the plaint is vexatious, frivolous and
abuse of process; only with a view to creating a litigation over the
land for extraneous consideration. 5.4. It is submitted that mentioning of the cause of action, is
nothing, but an eye wash. The plaintiff has stated about discovery of
the two documents, namely, the Will of Musa Pira and a mortgage
deed created by Siddi Musa. It is submitted that those documents,
have no relevance for, they at the best, establish that Musa Pira was
the plaintiff's ancestor and Siddi Musa, was plaintiff's great
grandfather and owned the land bearing survey no.1130 at the
relevant point of time. By clever drafting the plaintiff has tried to
create an illusion of cause of action by referring to these
documents. As the documents are not relevant, there is no cause of
action available for filing the suit. Also, the precise date of discovery
of the documents; mutation entries and the sale deeds, are
deliberately not mentioned, keeping the pleadings vague, only with
a view to contending that the triable issues arise in the suit. 5.5. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in the
case of C.S. Ramaswamy v. V.K. Senthil reported in 2022 SCC
OnLine SC 1330 . In the case before the Apex Court, the plaintiff had
filed a suit seeking cancellation of the sale deed, after a period of 10
years from the date of execution of such registration. The Apex
Court held that the averments and allegations made in the plaint
were too vague as nothing was mentioned on which date and how
the plaintiff had the knowledge that the document was obtained by
fraud and/or misrepresentation. It has been held and observed that
mere stating in the plaint that the fraud has been played, would not
be enough and the allegation of fraud must be specifically averred Page 6 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

in the plaint. Merely using the word "fraud", would not be
permissible to the plaintiffs to get the suit within the limitation,
which otherwise, would be barred by limitation. 5.6. It is further submitted that the plaint is liable to be rejected
under Order VII Rule 11(d) of the Code, it being barred by law of
limitation. It is submitted that the plaintiff, by clever drafting, has
created a cause of action. Such clever drafting, is unacceptable and
issue of limitation can be gone into. The Apex Court pointed out that
the every fact which is necessary for the plaintiff to prove to enable
him to get a decree, should be set out in clear terms and therefore,
all the facts were required to be stated as to how the grandfather
and the father were not aware about the mutation of entry or that
as to why they have not challenged it. It is submitted that the trial
Court has to undertake the exercise and to find out that the plaintiff
has taken recourse of clever drafting and if answer is in affirmative,
the plaint ought to have been rejected. 5.7. It is submitted that the suit, is not maintainable also under the
provisions of Order II Rule 2 of the Code as earlier, Regular Civil Suit
no.63 of 2013 instituted on the same cause of action, has been
dismissed. While inviting the attention of this Court to the plaint of
Regular Civil Suit no.63 of 2013 as well as the plaint of Regular Civil
Suit no.325 of 2013, it is submitted that the facts set out, so also
the prayers, are identical. The averments and the prayers in both
the suits, are similar. It is submitted that the earlier suit filed in the
year 2013 with identical reliefs, has been rejected under Order VII
Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. It is submitted that
both the suits, refer to survey no.1130 which, is divided into three
parts. Two portions, relate to defendant nos.4 and 5 and one to the
petitioner. Considering the cause of action mentioned in paragraph Page 7 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

13 of the plaint vis-a-vis the cause of action mentioned in the earlier
suit, both are identical. The plaintiff, chose not to join the petitioner
in the first suit, although everything, remained the same. 5.8. It is submitted that Order II Rule 2 of the Code, contemplates
a situation where a plaintiff omits to sue or intentionally relinquishes
any portion of the claim which he is entitled to make, if the plaintiff
so acts. Order II Rule 2 of the Code, makes it clear that the plaintiff
shall not, afterward, be permitted to claim, without the leave of the
Court and therefore, the plaint, is not maintainable. 5.9. Moreover, the respondent no.1, while filing the present suit,
has not disclosed the factum of the filing of the earlier suit and
therefore, there is a suppression, which has not been denied by the
plaintiff in his pleadings and/or in oral submissions. Upon application
being filed under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code, having been
rejected, there was no cause available to the learned Judge to have
rejected the application filed by the petitioner under Order VII Rule
11 of the Code. It is submitted that the plaint, is absolutely
vexatious and the petitioner, cannot be made to undergo the rigour
of the litigation and therefore, it is required to be rejected. 6. On the other hand, Mr Jenil Shah, learned advocate for the
plaintiff, submitted that the contention raised that the case of the
plaintiff, is based on entry no.447, is erroneous. In fact, the case, is
based on discovery of two documents, which are Will and the
mortgage deed. It is submitted that as per the Will, the land was
given to Siddi Musa and as per the mortgage deed, the names of the
heirs of Siddi Musa, were shown, and that is how, it came to the
knowledge of the plaintiff that he has the share in the property. The
plaintiff, was not aware about the share and when it came to his Page 8 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

knowledge that immediately the suit was filed. 6.1. It is submitted that so far as the entry no.447 is concerned,
there is a specific averment made in the plaint that the fraud has
been perpetrated in the year 1953, by posting the entry in the
revenue record. It is submitted that accepting the contention of the
other side that the dates and the facts are not mentioned with
precision, at the most the plaintiff, i.e. the respondent, would fail,
but the same, cannot be done at the stage of Order VII Rule 11. If
the date and the events, are not mentioned, the plaint would be an
incomplete or the cause of action, can be said to be a incomplete
cause of action. That by itself cannot render the suit liable to be
dismissed under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code. It is to be done at
the stage of evidence and yet, the stage has not begun. 6.2. Reliance is placed on the judgment in the case of Chhotanben
v. Kiritbhai Jalkrushnabhai Thakkar reported in (2018) 6 SCC 422. In
similar set of facts, the Apex Court, observed that it has been
asserted by the plaintiff that immediately, after getting knowledge
about the execution of the fraudulent sale, within two days from the
refusal, the suit was filed. The Apex Court, while affirming the view
taken by the trial Court, held and observed that the issue of
limitation, was a triable issue and the plaint could not have been
rejected at the threshold in exercise of the power under Order VII
Rule 11(d) of the Code. 6.3. Reliance is also placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in
the case of Salim D. Agboatwala v. Shamalji Oddhavji Thakkar reported in AIR 2021 SC 5212. Further reliance is placed on the
judgment of this Court in the case of Bahadurbhai Laljibhai Malhotra
v. Ambalal Joitaram Heir of Joitaram Ranchhoddas reported in 2015
(3) GLR 2760. It is submitted that the concept of deemed notice, Page 9 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

shall not apply, as the plaintiff, i.e. the respondent is claiming the
share over the property and this Court has, while referring to the
provisions of Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, held and
observed that knowledge of a fact is attributed to a person either
when he actually knows the fact, or when, but for willful abstention
from an inquiry or search, he ought to have made, or gross
negligence, he would have known it. It has been held and observed
that the provisions of Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act in the
context of deemed notice is applied in case of subsequent
purchaser acquiring any immovable property or interest therein of
the rights of the existing owner. Analogy flowing from the provision
is applied in case of rights and interests subsequently created when
the facts and attendant circumstances indicating either negligence,
lack of due diligence or willful lack of inquiry or the like. 6.4. It is submitted that so far as the contention that the challenge
to entry of the year 1953 in the year 2013, is barred by limitation,
cannot be accepted. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Apex
Court in the case of Daya Singh v. Gurdev Singh (Dead) By L.R.s reported in (2010) 2 SCC 194. The issue, was as to whether mere
existence of an adverse entry in the revenue record can be said to
have given rise to the cause of action as contemplated under Article
58 or it had accrued when the right was infringed or threatened to
be infringed. Reference has been made to the judgment in the case
of C. Mohammad Yunus v. Syed Unnissa reported in AIR 1961 SC
808 wherein, it has been held and observed that mere existence of
an adverse entry into the revenue record cannot give rise to cause
of action. 6.5. While adverting to the aspect of fraud, reference is made to
the provisions of Section 17 of the Limitation Act. It is submitted
that sub-section (1) of Section 17 of the Limitation Act, provides that Page 10 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff or
applicant, has discovered the fraud or the mistake. In the present
case, recently, the plaintiff i.e. respondent no.1 has discovered the
fraud and therefore, the limitation shall start from the date of the
knowledge. In the averments made in paragraphs 10 and 13, there
is a specific reference of fraud. It is submitted that the contention
has been raised about the promulgation entry no.447, having been
posted in the revenue record by perpetuating the fraud, so also the
factum that few days back the plaintiff, had discovered the
documents. It is submitted that the plaintiff may fail in proving but
what is to be seen is whether the plaintiff, i.e. the respondent has
set out the cause of action. 6.6. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in the
case of Ningawwa v. Byrappa Shiddappa Hireknrabnar & Others reported in AIR 1968 SC 956. Reliance is also placed on the
judgment of this Court in the case of Manish K. Sheth v. State of
Gujarat reported in 1985 (1) GLR 202. It has been held and
observed that principles underlying Section 17 of the Limitation Act,
can be invoked, where on account of fraud mistake or concealment,
the other side has remained in dark. In such cases, the limitation,
shall be computed from the time when the fraud mistake on
concealment has first become known to the person injuriously
affected thereby. 6.7. It is submitted that the events which are mentioned are in the
written statement and not in the plaint and which, would be the
defense of the defendants and therefore, cannot be gone into. What
is to be seen, is the averments made in the plaint and the plaintiff,
has categorically alleged fraud. The submission that there is no
challenge by the father and the grandfather, is misplaced for, it is
not necessary that there has to be a challenge by them. The Page 11 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

plaintiff's share, cannot be challenged by the respondent i.e. father
and grandfather. 6.8. Mr Jenil M. Shah, learned advocate, submitted that the
contention of the suit being hit by the provisions of Order II Rule 2 of
the Code, cannot be tested at this stage. Whether there is non-
disclosure of filing of the earlier suit, the said aspect cannot be gone
into at the stage of deciding the application under Order VII Rule 11
of the Code. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in
the case of Soumitra Kumar Sen v. Shyamal Kumar Sen reported in
(2018) 5 SCC 644. The Apex Court, has held and observed that the
defense in the written statement cannot be gone into and one has
to only look into the plaint for the purpose of deciding the
application under Order VII Rule 11. It is submitted that alleged
omission of mentioning the details of other suit, would be matter for
which, the plaintiff, would be guilty of suppression and concealment;
however, the defense projected in the written statement cannot be
looked into. 6.9. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in the
case of Jayantilal Chimanlal Patel v. Vadilal Purshottamdas Patel reported in (2017) 13 SCC 409. It is submitted that the Apex Court
referred to the judgment in the case of Gurbux Singh v. Bhooralal reported in AIR 1964 SC 1810 wherein, it has been noted that filing
of the plaint of earlier suit and proving it as per law is imperative to
sustain the plea of Order 2 Rule 2 of the Code. Unless that is done,
the stand would not be entertainable. It is therefore, submitted that
assuming that the plaintiff, has suppressed the factum of the filing
of the earlier suit, that, cannot be decided at the stage of Order VII
Rule 11 of the Code and the same, would be the matter of trial.
Thus, the revision application deserves to be dismissed. 7. Mr R.S. Sanjanwala, learned Senior Counsel in rejoinder
submitted that on the basis of the two registered documents, the
grandson, in the year 2013, approaches the Court and alleges that
the mutation entry no. 447 is fraud, so also, the the subsequent sale
transactions in favour of the respective parties. The case put forth
by the plaintiff is firstly, that the grandfather Aadam Siddi is entitled
to a share; secondly, the mutation entry no. 447 is fraudulently
posted to exclude the grandfather and thirdly, transfers which have
taken place are inconsequential. The suit is filed with these grounds,
however, the plaintiff needs to explain why he has approached the
Court in the year 2013. 7.1 It is submitted that, in fact, the averments made in the plaint,
do not qualify that the plaintiff was not aware that he is the heir of
Siddi Musa. Paragraph 3 of the plaint is the statement of the fact.
Paragraph 4 is about the description of heirs and reference of deed
of mortgage. In paragraph 5, fraud has been alleged it having been
perpetrated in the year 1953 at the time of posting promulgation
entry. So far as paragraph 6 is concerned, it is the prayer seeking
declaration to the effect that the transactions executed by Isha Siddi
and Abdulla Siddi are ab initio null and void. However, there is not a
whisper that they had no knowledge or that the administration of
the property was not within their knowledge. In paragraph no.7, the
plaintiff talks about the transfer and declaration and it being null
and void. The averments in paragraph no. 8 is with respect to the
documents of the year 1920 i.e. the Will and the land going to the
share of Siddi Musa. It is therefore submitted that the plaintiff, is
mindful of the subsequent transactions. It is submitted that the
claim lodged by the plaintiff is grossly belated and by clever drafting
the suit has been brought within limitation. Justification is only two Page 13 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

documents. Similarly, paragraph 9 states about the transactions in
succession which are within the knowledge of the plaintiff and the
delay in filing the suit has been explained, suggesting that what is
being challenged is ab initio void. In paragraph 10, there is
reference of promulgation entry no.447 and it having posted by
fraud. 8. It is submitted that reliance is placed on section 17 of
limitation Act, to contend that the period of limitation shall not begin
to run until plaintiff has discovered the fraud or the mistake,
however, there is no clear allegation of fraud set out in the plaint.
Paragraph no. 13 is relatable to cause of action, which is vague
considering the fact that the date is not mentioned, and only the
reference of documents are made. Averments are misconceived,
vexatious and meritless. Though the documents are source of
knowledge, the plaintiff has come for enforcement of his legal right
only in the year 2013. The only explanation put forth is that on
discovery of two documents, the plaintiff made further inquiry and
derived knowledge of fraud etc. It is submitted that Order VI Rule 4
of the Code, provides for particulars to be given where necessary. It
contemplates that in all cases in which the party pleading relies on
any misrepresentation, fraud, breach of trust, wilful default, or
undue influence, and in all other cases in which particulars may be
necessary beyond such as are exemplified in the forms aforesaid,
particulars, with dates and items if necessary, shall be stated in the
pleading. In the present case the elements of Order VI Rule 4 are
missing. 9. Reference is once again made to the judgment in the case of
CS Ramaswami v. VK Senthil (supra). It is submitted that the Apex
Court has held and observed that while deciding the application Page 14 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

under Order VII Rule 11, the Court must remember that if on a
meaningful- not formal - reading of the plaint it is manifestly
vexatious, and meritless, in the sense of not disclosing a clear right
to sue, that the power should be exercised and if clever drafting has
created the illusion of a cause of action, the same should be nipped
in the bud. Reference has been made to the judgment of Church of
Christ Charitable Trust & Educational Charitable Society v.
Ponniamman Educational Trust , reported in (2012) 8 SCC 706,
wherein it has been held and observed that while scrutinising the
plaint averments, it is the bounden duty of the trial court to
ascertain the materials for cause of action. The cause of action is a
bundle of facts which taken with the law applicable to them gives
the plaintiff the right to relief against the defendant. Every fact
which is necessary for the plaintiff to prove to enable him to get a
decree should be set out in clear terms. It is therefore submitted
that if clever drafting has created an illusion of cause of action,
giving a holistic reading, the suit or the proceedings should be
nipped in the bud. 10. It is submitted that the plaintiff has himself produced the
documents namely the first transaction executed in the year 1965;
second transaction of the year 1986 and the third transaction of the
year 1999. It is submitted that all the transactions are by registered
sale deed and the law provides constructive knowledge of the
registered sale deed. The suit challenging the sale deeds has been
filed in the year 2013 where the limitation is of three years. 11. Reliance is placed on the judgment in the case of Masrur
Fatema Jafarali saiyed v. Vishnubhai Ambalal Patel reported in
MANU/GJ/2478/2016. In the said case, the learned trial Court has
allowed the application under Order VII Rule 11 and rejected the Page 15 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

plaint. This Court, did not interfere and reject the appeal holding
that the suit is nothing but an abuse of process of law. 12. Reliance is placed on the judgment in the case of Dahiben v.
Arvindbhai Kalyanji Bhanusali reported in MANU/SC/0508/2020. The
Apex Court has held and observed that the underlying object of
Order VII Rule 11 (a) is that if in a suit, no cause of action is
disclosed, or the suit is barred by limitation under Rule 11 (d), the
Court would not permit the plaintiff to unnecessarily protract the
proceedings in the suit. In such a case, it would be necessary to put
an end to the sham litigation, so that further judicial time is not
wasted. Exception has been carved out namely that if on
meaningful reading of the plaint it is found that the suit is manifestly
vexatious and without any merit, and does not disclose any right to
sue, then the plaint shall be rejected, if any ground specified in
clauses (a) to (e) are made out. It is therefore submitted that
suppression, etc. everything can be seen, it being a permissible
exercise. 13. Reliance is placed on the judgment in the case of Charu Kishor
Mehta v. Prakash Patel & Ors. rendered in Special Leave Petition No.
11030/2022. It is submitted that the Apex Court, has pointed out
that mere recital of fraud is not enough. Once fraud is alleged by a
party, fraud is to be tested in terms of Order VI Rule 4. It is
submitted that in the present case, nothing has been stated with
respect to the fraud as to how the entry no. 447 was fraudulently
posted. Reliance is also placed on the judgment in the case of Canara Bank v. P. Selathal reported in (2020) 13 SCC 143. Reliance
is also placed on the judgment in the case of Sri Lankappa v. KIDC
reported in MANU/SC/1197/2021. 14. It is next submitted that the fraud, has been pressed in
service in a vague manner. The document of 1920, is in support of
the explanation that the great grandfather was the person who
succeeded the property. 1932, is a deed of mortgage, which
substantiates that grandfather along with four brothers, were the
heirs; excluding them, that the entry was posted. It is submitted
that for all these years, nobody had ever taken any steps and the
only interested party is the son who, is filing the suit making the
father as the respondent. Cause mentioned is nothing but a clever
drafting only with a view to creating litigation for collateral
purposes. Thus, the judgments relied upon on behalf of the plaintiff,
cannot be made applicable to the facts of the present case. 15. It is submitted that it is a specific case of the petitioner that
there was an actual knowledge and not deemed knowledge and the
aspect of constructive knowledge can be gone into. It is submitted
that section 3 of the Transfer of Properties Act, 1882 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act of 1882") provides that a person is said to
have notice of a fact when he actually knows that fact, or when, but
for wilful abstention from an enquiry or search which he ought to
have made, or gross negligence, he would have known it. Section 3 contemplates that if you are vigilant, the law will help you. It is
submitted that it is not coming forth as to why the plaintiff's father
and grandfather at any stage question the mutation entry or the
sale deeds and it is not even the case whether the father and
grandfather had no knowledge of the mutation of the entry.
Assuming that the plaintiff had no knowledge, there is not a whisper
that a due diligence was exercised and in spite of the due diligence,
the plaintiff was not aware of the fraud. It is also submitted that the
entries in the revenue record so also the sale deeds are the Page 17 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

documents in public domain and for such documents, limitation
starts to run from the date of the document and not the date of
knowledge and therefore, on conjoint application of the Section 3 of
the Act of 1882 and Section 17 of the Limitation Act states the
deemed knowledge on the part of the plaintiff as regards the sale
deeds of the year 1964, 1965, 1986 and 2009. Thus, the suit
instituted in the year 2013, is beyond limitation. 16. While distinguishing the judgment in the case of Chotanben &
Others v. Kiritbhai Jalkrushnabhai Thakkar (supra), it is submitted
that in the said case, facts, were stated meticulously and with
precision. So far as the present case is concerned, the knowledge is
established and in absence of any averments, benefit of section 17 of the Limitation Act cannot be extended and section 3 of the Act of
1882, will have to be pressed in service. So far as the contention
that the aspect of earlier suit, is not forming part of the plaint but
has been produced by the defendant and cannot be relied upon is
concerned, it is submitted that in the case of State of Rajasthan v.
Union of India reported in 2018 (12) SCC 83, preliminary objection
as regards maintainability of the suit, was taken and the suit, came
to be rejected under Order VII Rule 11 accepting the objection as
regards the maintainability of the preliminary objection and
therefore, the inquiry is permissible. Thus, the revision application
requires to be allowed. 17. Mr Jenil Shah, learned advocate in the brief rejoinder,
submitted that the contention of bar of Order VI Rule 4, would not
be permissible, as it has been raised for the first time in the
application. It was neither raised before the trial Court nor in the
written statement. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Apex
Court in the case of Baldevdas Shivlal v. Filmistan Distributors Page 18 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

(India) Pvt. Ltd. reported in AIR 1970 SC 406. It is submitted that
even otherwise, all the particulars in relation to the fraud are clearly
set out in the plaint that how the fraud has been perpetrated. Even
the provisions, expressly states that the dates are required to be
mentioned only if the same is necessary. Reliance is placed on the
judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Ramesh B. Desai v. Bipin
Vadilal Mehta reported in (2006) 5 SCC 638. It is submitted that so
far as the scope of Section 115 is concerned, it is very narrow and
only jurisdictional errors can be corrected under the said provision.
Even if the order of the trial Court, may be wrong or the different
view is permissible, still this Court may not like to interfere with the
order in view of scope of Section 115 being limited. While summing
up, it is submitted that there is a prima facie discloser of cause of
action in the plaint and it cannot be said to be barred by the
limitation as, there is assertion about the discovery of two
documents. 18. Heard the learned Advocates appearing for the respective
parties and perused the material available on record. 19. Center to the issue is the land bearing survey no. 1130
(hereinafter referred to as "the suit property"). At the relevant point
of time, Musa Pira was the owner of the suit property. Discernibly,
Musa Pira had two sons namely Isa Musa and Siddi Musa. Siddi Musa
appears to have six children including the grandfather of the
plaintiff. It is further the case of the plaintiff that therefore, at the
time of promulgation, the suit property ought to have been entered
in the name of all the heirs of Isa Musa and Siddi Musa; however,
the names of only Ishaa Siddi and Abdulla Siddi were posted in the
revenue record excluding the names of other heirs which, would be
illegal, rendering it null and void. It is the case of the plaintiff that Page 19 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

Isa Musa, also had one son who was abroad, however, his name is
missing in the promulgation entry no. 447 which fact, is
strengthened by contents contained in the Will dated 24.11.1920. It
has also been stated that Musa Pira had given away his whole
property to Siddi Musa by virtue of Will dated 24.11.1920 canceling
the right of Umar Isa the son of Isa Musa. 20. The plaint further proceeds that the entry no. 447, posted in
the revenue record is the result of fraud and recently, on the basis
of the Will as well as the mortgage registered deed which, have
been discovered from the house, the factum of entry and the suit
property came to the knowledge of the plaintiff and that the suit has
been filed. Therefore, the suit, is not barred by limitation. Paragraph
13 of the plaint, states cause of action, according to which, recently,
from the house, the Will as well as the registered mortgage deed
have been discovered and further information was gathered and
therefore, the cause of action has arisen to file the suit. The plaintiff
therefore, has prayed for direction that the plaintiff being the heir
has right over the suit property and accordingly has prayed for
partition. The plaintiff had also prayed for declaration that entry no.
447 posted in the revenue record be canceled as it takes away the
right of the plaintiff and in the very same prayer, it has also been
prayed that all the subsequent entries be declared as null and void
and not binding upon him. 21. The petitioner, filed an application under the provisions of
Order VII Rule 11 of the Code seeking rejection of the plaint on the
ground that considering the prayers, entry no. 447 dated
06.02.1959, has been challenged in the year 2013; however, the
promulgation entry has been certified after following necessary
procedure by the revenue authorities. The said entry, has not been Page 20 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

posted at the instance of the owner or the occupier but, was at the
time of promulgation and considering the provisions of Section 9 of
the Code read with the provisions of the Gujarat Land Revenue
Code, 1879, entry no. 447 could not be challenged before the trial
Court. While dealing with the limitation, it is pointed out that entry
no. 447 has been challenged almost after a period of 61 years and
therefore, it is barred by limitation. It is also contended that the
documents in favour of the petitioner i.e. the defendant no. 4 is of
the year 2009 and in paragraph 9 of the suit it has been stated that
the plaintiff is aware about the transaction in favour of the
defendant no. 4, however, there is a non-disclosure of the date of
the sale deed and the same has been suppressed. Even in the
revenue record there is a reference of the sale deed dated
18.09.2009 in favour of the petitioner, whereas the suit, has been
filed in the year 2013 and therefore, on that count the suit is barred
by limitation. 22. The case further proceeds that the plaintiff claims to be the
great great grandson of Musa Pira, however, the plaintiff has not
mentioned as to when Musa Pira, Siddi Musa, Adam Siddi and
Siddique Adam have passed away. In paragraph 2, the names of
other heirs are mentioned, who have never raised any grievance or
dispute or for that matter have taken out any litigation. It is only the
plaintiff who has filed the suit. Even the father of the plaintiff
Siddique Adam, has not raised any dispute. It is therefore a
contention is raised in the application that all the details were
required to be mentioned and in absence of any complete details,
the suit, can be said to be bereft of any cause of action. Even the
details mentioned in the plaint about the Will dated 24.11.1920, do
not say as to whether the Will has been acted upon and if it has not Page 21 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

been acted, as to why it has not been done. Similarly, with reference
to the registered mortgage deed, no details are mentioned as to
when the said registered mortgage has been released. The details
are missing in the plaint. 23. The plaintiff though has stated that recently from the house,
the copies of the documents namely the Will and the registered
mortgage deed have been discovered but, nothing has been
mentioned as to on which date both the documents were
discovered. Non-disclosure is intentional and with a view to seeing
that the suit is brought within limitation. It is also alleged that the
plaintiff has failed to state about his staying in the house since how
many years. As the plaintiff is the fourth generation heir, it is
difficult to believe as to whether all the four generations, have been
staying in the same house, such crucial details are missing. With
this, the application, has been filed seeking rejection of the plaint. 24. Therefore, the issue which arises for consideration of this
Court, is whether the suit is barred by limitation and as to whether
the plaint discloses the cause of action. The issue is also as to
whether the Court below has committed an error in not accepting
the application Order VII Rule 11 of the Code and rejecting the
plaint. 25. Before proceeding further, some of the judgments on point
are worth referring to. In the judgment in the case of Masrur Fatema
Jafarali Saiyed v. Vishnubhai Ambalal Patel (supra), the Apex Court
has held and observed that considering the purpose and object of
order VII Rule 11(d) of the Code; when it is found that the suit is
barred by limitation the Court shall reject the same. The suit was
filed by the plaintiff therein seeking declaration that the registered Page 22 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

sale deeds in favour of the defendants are executed by fraud and
therefore, illegal and not binding on the plaintiff. The Apex Court,
found that the original plaintiffs, have not stated the correct facts
and that there was suppression of material facts. The Apex Court
also took note of the fact that in the interregnum, various registered
sale deeds were executed and certain parcels of land were sold in
favour of the defendants therein executing registered sale deeds.
The Apex Court was of the opinion that the suit was nothing but an
abuse of process of law and the plaintiff, woke up only in the year
2002 challenging the sale deeds, seeking declaration of fraud of the
transaction executed in the year 1969 and thereafter, in the year
1985-1993. Relevant paragraphs 10, 10.1 and 11.3 read thus: 26. In yet another decision in the case of Dahiben v. Arvindbhai
Kalyanji Bhanusali (supra), the Apex Court, while touching the law
applicable for deciding the application under Order VII Rule XI of the
Code, has held and observed that remedy under the said provision
is an independent and special remedy, wherein the Court is
empowered to summarily dismiss a suit at the threshold, without
proceeding to record evidence and conducting the trial, on the basis
of the evidence adduced, if it is satisfied that the action should be
terminated on any of the grounds contained in the provision. It has
been held and observed that the underlying object of Order VII Rule
XI (a) of the Code is that if in a suit, no cause of action is disclosed, Page 24 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

or the suit is barred by limitation under Rule 11 (d), the Court should
not permit the plaintiff to unnecessarily protract the proceedings in
the suit and in such a case, it would be necessary to put an end to
the sham litigation, so that further judicial time is not wasted. The
Apex Court has referred to the judgment in the case of Azhar
Hussain v. Rajiv Gandhi reported in 1986 Supp. SCC 315 wherein, it
has been held and observed that "the whole purpose of conferment
of such power is to ensure that a litigation which is meaningless,
and bound to prove abortive should not be permitted to occupy the
time of the Court, and exercise the mind of the respondent. The
sword of damocles need not be kept hanging over his head
unnecessarily without point or purpose. Even if an ordinary civil
litigation, the Court readily exercises the power to reject a plaint, if
it does not disclose any cause of action." The Apex Court has further
observed that if on a meaningful reading of the plaint, it is found
that the suit is manifestly vexatious and without any merit and does
not disclose a right to sue, the Court would be justified in exercising
the powers under Order VII Rule XI of the Code. While discussing the
scheme of the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 of the Code and the
judgments, in paragraph 13, it has been observed thus: Subsequently, in I.T.C. Ltd. v. Debt Recovery Appellate
 Tribunal, MANU/SC/0968/1998 : (1998) 2 SCC 170 this Court
 held that law cannot permit clever drafting which creates
 illusions of a cause of action. What is required is that a clear
 right must be made out in the plaint. If, however, by clever drafting of the plaint, it has created the
 illusion of a cause of action, this Court in Madanuri Sri
 Ramachandra Murthy v. Syed Jalal MANU/SC/0485/2017 : The Court must be vigilant against any camouflage or
 suppression, and determine whether the litigation is utterly
 vexatious, and an abuse of the process of the court." 27. At this stage, the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of
CS Ramaswami v. V. K. Senthil (supra) is also required to be taken
note of wherein, it has been held and observed that the averments
and allegations in the plaint are required to be considered and if the
allegations are found to be vague and only by a clever drafting, the
suit is sought to be brought within the period of limitation, the same
should be rejected at the threshold. Relevant paragraphs 30 and 31
are reproduced hereinbelow: Mere stating in the plaint that a fraud has been played is not
 enough and the allegations of fraud must be specifically
 averred in the plaint, otherwise merely by using the word
 "fraud", the plaintiffs would try to get the suits within the
 limitation, which otherwise may be barred by limitation.
 Therefore, even if the submission on behalf of the respondents - original plaintiffs that only the averments and allegations in
 the plaints are required to be considered at the time of
 deciding the application under Order VII Rule 11 CPC is
 accepted, in that case also by such vague allegations with
 respect to the date of knowledge, the plaintiffs cannot be
 permitted to challenge the documents after a period of 10
 years. By such a clever drafting and using the word "fraud",
 the plaintiffs have tried to bring the suits within the period of
 limitation invoking Section 17 of the limitation Act. The
 plaintiffs cannot be permitted to bring the suits within the
 period of limitation by clever drafting, which otherwise is
 barred by limitation........." 28. Reference of the judgment in the case of Raghwendra Sharan
Singh v. Ram Prasanna Singh (Dead ) through Lrs. reported in AIR
2019 SC 1430 would be apt, as well. In the said case, the plaintiff
and his brother have purchased the suit land in the year 1965 and
executed the registered gift deed in favour of the appellant therein
in the year 1981 and putting him in possession. The appellant
instituted a suit in the year 2001 against his brother, seeking
declaration that the gift deed dated 06.03.1981 executed in favour
of the appellant, was sham transaction, no title and possession with Page 27 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

respect to the gifted property, was ever passed. Application under
Order VII Rule XI was filed, seeking rejection of the plaint on the
ground that the suit is clearly barred by the law of limitation, as the
gift deed having been executed in the year 1981 and the suit under Article 59 of the Limitation Act ought to have been filed within three
years of the deed of execution, the same has been filed after more
than 22 years. In the suit, application under Order VII Rule XI was
rejected against which, proceedings were initiated before the High
Court, which also came to be rejected. The Apex Court, while
considering various judgments on the point, allowed the application
under Order VII Rule XI and the plaint was directed to be rejected.
Paragraph 7 of the judgment is reproduced for ready reference. 29. Therefore, the principles, which can be culled out from the
abovereferred judgments, are that the plaint can be rejected under
Order VII Rule XI of the Code, if the conditions enumerated in the
said provisions are fulfilled and the powers can be exercised by the
Court at any stage of suit. While deciding the application, the
averments of the plaint need to be gone into and on meaningful
reading of the averments in the plaint, if it is found that the suit is
manifestly vexatious and meritless inasmuch as, it does not disclose
any right to sue, the powers under Order VII Rule XI can be
exercised. Further principle which can be culled out is that when the
allegations made in the plaint are taken to be correct as a whole on
their face value and if suggest that the suit is barred by any law or
does not disclose any cause of action, the application seeking
rejection of the plaint can very well be entertained, exercising the
powers under Order VII Rule XI of the Code. If by clever drafting of
the plaint, illusion of a cause of action is created, the Court shall
nipped in the bud, so as to see that the bogus litigation ends at the
earlier stage. 30. In the aforesaid backdrop, one needs to examine the
averments made in the plaint. The plaintiff, in paragraph 2, has set
out the pedigree. Paragraph 3 is a statement of facts, making a
reference of the promulgation and mutation of the entry no.447
entering the names of the heirs. Paragraph 4 makes a reference of
the registered mortgaged deed as evidence to suggest that Siddi Page 29 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

Musa had 5 sons. In paragraph 5, averment is made as regards the
fraud perpetrated in the year 1953. It is stated that Isha Siddi and
Abdulla Siddi suppressing the fact of other heirs, got their names
mutated in the revenue record to the exclusion of others and
deprived them of their rights, committing fraud. On the basis of the
averment of fraud, in paragraph 6, it has been urged that the
transaction executed by the heirs, whose names were mutated in
the revenue record, are ab-initio null and void. In paragraph 7, it has
been stated that at the time of promulgation entry no.447, though
the heirs were alive, their names have not been entered and the
names of only two heirs have been posted in the revenue record,
which entry would be illegal, null and void qua the rights of the
original plaintiff. It has also been stated that promulgation entry and
consequential transactions are illegal and null and void. Paragraph 8
makes a reference of the Will of the year 1920, the contents and the
rights of the respective heirs flowing therefrom. Paragraph 9 again
makes a reference of entry no.447 and the transactions of sale. It is
stated that when entry no.447 is illegal, since inception, the
consequential sale transactions, including the transaction in favour
of the petitioner, are illegal. In paragraph 10, while making a
reference of entry no.447, it is alleged that there is a fraud
committed and that, upon discovery of the registered Will and
mortgaged deed, the suit has been filed. 31. What comes, is paragraph 13 i.e. the cause of action, free
english translation, is that recently, from the house, copies of the
original Will of Musa Pira and registered mortgaged deed have been
discovered. Relevant documents were obtained and details of the
suit property were surfaced and therefore, the suit has been filed.
With this prayer, the plaintiff has prayed for declaration. The Page 30 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

plaintiff, in the capacity of the heir, having a right over the property;
sought for partition. Another prayer is seeking to challenge the
entry no.447 and subsequent entries mutated in the revenue record
and that it is not binding. So is the connected prayer clause C of
paragraph 15. The averment in the plaint and more particularly
paragraph 13, is nothing but a clever drafting so as to bring the suit
within the limitation and therefore, it was misconceived on the part
of the trial court to have observed that "from the averments made
by the plaintiff, it cannot be said that the plaintiff knew about the
said mutation entry since long and to ascertain if plaintiff pleaded
falsely in this regard, evidence is required to be recorded." 32. Pertinently, the theory put forward by the plaintiff is the
discovery of two documents namely, Will of Musa Pira and
registered mortgage deed. Thus, the edifice on which the suit has
been filed is the two documents and discovery thereof. Theory,
propounded, would definitely raise a question in the mind of a
person as to how, when and from where the documents were
discovered more particularly, when, great- grandfather, grandfather
and father during their life time did not raise any objection, although
the said documents were very much within their knowledge and in
their possession they having been discovered from the house . Next
question which then arises is why no steps were taken for almost six
decades and why only in the year 2013. It is also not the case of the
plaintiff or for that matter his father that they were not possessing
the knowledge of the existence of the said two documents. Only on
the bare statement that the documents were discovered that the
suit is filed, in the opinion of this Court, such ground is vague and
without any substance. Such averments are nothing but a clever
drafting and only with a view to showing cause of action and Page 31 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

covering the limitation. 33. Pertinently, there is a growing tendency of filing of suits by
the descendants on the purported ground of discovery of
documents, knowledge acquired through their friends and relatives,
so on, and so forth. Possibly the reasons behind either are rise in the
price of the land, rivalry, sponsored litigation, to name a few.
Although the ancestors for decades don't take any steps and the
heirs, waking up from the slumber, files the suit claiming their so
called right over the immovable properties more particularly the
lands, couching the prayers in such a manner, so as to bring the
cause within the limitation. Securing the defence in an application,
that may be filed under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code, that the
limitation, is a mixed question of facts and law and requires the trial.
On the other hand, consider the predicament of the party who
purchases the property by the registered transaction and continues
to be in possession and enjoyment and all of a sudden, after a
decade or so, receives a notice from the court of the suit with
respect to the so called rights cropped up of the heirs over the
property. Burdening a person with the rigours of litigation in such
facts and circumstances would be both harsh and unjustified. Such
attempt therefore on the part of the heirs are required to be nipped
in the bud. However, it must be borne in mind that these
considerations apply to genuine legal transactions and cases. 34. The present is one of such cases, where, the heir of Musa Pira
discovers documents from the house, which remained unnoticed by
the great grandfather, grandfather and the father. The heir that is
the plaintiff without disclosing as to when, from where and how the
plaintiff had discovered the document files the suit. As aforestated
this raises a question in the mind that if all the family members are Page 32 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

residing in the very same house, since decades, why the documents
were not within the knowledge of the other family members, or the
ancestors and the plaintiff being the fourth generation was lucky
enough to get those documents. The theory put forward to say the
least is unbelievable. 35. So far as the contention as regards fraud is concerned, is also
misconceived and raised for the sake of raising it and that too
without there being any supporting statements. It is but natural that
when a party comes with the contention of fraud it is expected of
him to state basic averments as to who has committed a fraud when
the fraud has been committed and by what means the fraud has
been committed. Nothing is mentioned except bare allegation of
commission of fraud. In the judgment in the case of Canara Bank v.
P. Selathal and Ors. (supra), the Apex Court, has held and observed
that when there is an allegation of fraud, specific instances and of
the acts of fraud with evidence, have to be pleaded in the plaint.
Mere statements are not sufficient, if just fraud is pleaded, to plead
the fraud; however, there has to be a material to show that the
fraud is committed. The Apex Court took note of the Madras High
Court judgment in the case of M/s Cambridge Solutions Limited,
Bangalore v. Global Software Limited, Chennai reported in
MANU/TN/2388/2016, wherein it has been held and observed that
when it is found that the allegations of fraud in the plaint are
illusory; it is not sufficient if just fraud is pleaded and there must be
material to show that the fraud is committed. Relevant paragraphs
9 and 10 read thus: 36. From the averments made in the plaint, except stating that
the fraud is perpetrated in the year 1953, nothing has been stated,
further buttressing the said allegation of fraud. Pertinently,
promulgation entry no.447 was posted in the revenue record in the
year 1953 and is still in currency. It is the case that as per the
registered deed Siddi Musa had 5 sons and suppressing the said
fact, the names of only two heirs have been posted. Moreover, as
per the Will, the original owner Musa Pira had willed the property in
favour of Siddi Musa. Therefore, at the time of posting the entry
no.447 though other heirs were alive, their names are not entered,
by committing fraud. Except this, there is not a whisper as to who
committed the fraud and when the fraud was committed. Also, the
grandfather of the plaintiff so also, the father of the plaintiff have
never taken any steps against the promulgation entry no.447.
Therefore, the fraud alleged, is nothing but imaginary and eye wash,
rendering the allegation substance less. 37. It has also been argued that when there is a fraud alleged, as
per the provisions of Section 17 of the Limitation Act, limitation Page 35 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

would start to run until the applicant has discovered the fraud or the
mistake. This Court is of the opinion that the allegation of fraud is
sham and therefore, recourse to Section 17 of the Limitation Act,
would be misplaced and misconceived. The judgments in support of
such contention would not be applicable as the allegation of fraud is
nothing but vague allegation. 38. This takes, the Court to the issue of the cause of action. As
discussed hereinabove, the plaintiff-respondent, has set out the
cause of action in paragraph 13. The plaintiff-respondent, has
averred in vernacular, free english translation would be to the effect
that recently, few days back that from the house, he had discovered
the Will and the registered mortgage deed; however, except this, no
further details have been stated as to where, how and when the
copies of the Will and the registered mortgage deed have been
discovered, hence, the said averment, is tainted with the element of
vagueness. At this stage, the judgment of the Apex Court in the
case of T. Arivandandam v. T.V. Satyapal (supra) is worth referring
to. In the said case, the Apex Court, in paragraph 5, has held and
observed thus: NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined 39. Discernibly, the grievance of the respondent-original plaintiff,
is against the entry no.447 which was posted in the revenue record
in the year 1953. Therefore, when the entry, is of the year 1953, to
challenge the same in the year 2013 on the ground that the
plaintiff-respondent has discovered the two documents, in the
opinion of this Court, would be too far-fetched a theory and cannot
be believed. Also, the documents namely, the Will of Musa Pira and
Mortgage created of Siddi Musa have no relevance and they at the
best, establish that the plaintiff is the heir of Musa Pira and great
grandson of Siddi Musa. Couching the cause of action, only on the
basis of these two documents, is nothing but a clever drafting
creating an illusion. As the documents have no relevance, it cannot
be said that there is any cause of action arisen for filing of the suit.
Therefore, the court below erred in applying the ratio of the
judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Chotanben & Others v.
Kiritbhai Jalkrushnabhai Thakkar (supra) to the facts of the present
case. 40. The judgment in the case of Chotanben & Others v. Kiritbhai
Jalkrushnabhai Thakkar (supra), would not be applicable to the facts
of the present case inasmuch as, there was a specific assertion that
the appellants therein and the defendants were in joint ownership
and possession of the ancestral property inherited by them from
their predecessor. So is not the case over here. In paragraph 19, the
Apex Court, has categorically held and observed that there was a
specific assertion in the suit that the same has been filed
immediately after getting the knowledge about the fraudulent sale
deed executed by the defendants therein by keeping them in dark
about such execution and within two days from the refusal by the
original defendants to refrain from obstructing the peaceful Page 37 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

enjoyment of use and possession of the ancestral property. Here, as
has been rightly pointed out by Mr Sanjanwala, learned senior
counsel appearing for the applicant-petitioner that in whole of the
plaint there is not a whisper that neither father nor the grandfather
or the plaintiff-respondent were not aware about the Will and the
mortgage deed and therefore, the knowledge was very much there.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case on hand, the
judgments cited by the learned advocate appearing for the plaintiff-
respondent cannot be applied. 41. Besides, there is one more ground raised of suppression
which, also leans in favour of the petitioner. In view of the
discussion in the preceding paragraph, the suit is nothing but utterly
vexatious and abuse of process of Court. Pertinent would be the
common oral judgment dated 24.2.2020 passed in Civil Revision
Application no.147 of 2016, in the case of Himanshubhai Pannalal
Kothari v. Legal Heirs of Decd . Hasubhai Kalubhai Shaikh & Others,
wherein this Court has referred to the judgment dated 26.12.2019
passed in Civil Revision Application no.343 of 2019 in the case of Rajhansh Infracon India (Pvt) Ltd. v. Santosh Rameshbhai Rathod . It
is held and observed that the plaintiff must make all the averments
to his knowledge and information in the plaint and cannot claim a
premium for deliberate omission of certain relevant facts. The
suppressed facts, if brought to the notice of the court, can always
be taken into account for the purpose of Order VII Rule 11 of the
C.P.C . Paragraph 4 of the common oral judgment dated 24.2.2020,
is reproduced hereinbelow: The Apex Court, in the case of Dahiben v. Arvindbhai Kalyanji
Bhanusali (supra), in paragraph 13 has observed thus: 42. In the case of State Trading Corporation of India Limited and
Ors. v. Glencore Grain B.V. , reported in MANU/WB/0164/2015, the
Apex Court has held and observed that the instance of an abuse of
the process of Court would cover matters where there is a
suppression of material fact as on the date of institution of the
proceeding or in a case where a party is relitigating the same issue
which has been tried and decided earlier against him. The re-
agitation may or may not be barred under res judicata. But if the
same issue is sought to be re-agitated, it also amounts to an abuse
of process of the Court. A proceeding being filed for a collateral
purpose, or a spurious claim being made in litigation may also in a
given set of facts amount to an abuse of the process of the Court.
Frivolous or vexatious proceedings may also amount to an abuse of
the process of the Court especially where the proceedings are
absolutely groundless. The Court then has the power to stop such
proceedings summarily and prevent the time of the public and the
Court from being wasted. Para 37 reads thus: The instance of an abuse of the process of Court would
 cover matters where there is a suppression of material fact
 as on the date of institution of the proceeding or in a case
 where a party is relitigating the same issue which has been
 tried and decided earlier against him. The re-agitation may
 or may not be barred under res judicata. But if the same
 issue is sought to be re-agitated, it also amounts to an
 abuse of the process of the Court. A proceeding being filed
 for a collateral purpose, or a spurious claim being made in
 litigation may also in a given set of facts amount to an
 abuse of the process of the Court. Frivolous or vexatious
 proceedings may also amount to an abuse of the process of
 the Court especially where the proceedings are absolutely
 groundless. The Court then has the power to stop such
 proceedings summarily and prevent the time of the public
 and the Court from being wasted. This principle has been
 enunciated in K.K. Modi Vs. K.N. Modi & Ors. reported at
 1998 (3) SCC 573. However, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 has sounded a note of caution by observing that it is a
 matter of Court's discretion whether such proceedings
 should be stopped or not and this discretion has to be
 exercised with circumspection. It is a jurisdiction which
 should be sparingly exercised, and exercised only in special
 cases. The Court should also be satisfied that there is no
 chance of the suit succeeding." 43. Suit being Regular Civil Suit no.63 of 2013 for the same land
with identical prayers without impleading the petitioner and joining
the owners of survey nos.1130/1 and 1130/2, has been rejected,
upon filing of an application under Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC on
12.4.2017 and appeal is pending before the District Court. The said
fact, was suppressed by the plaintiff and it is not disputed by the Page 40 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/CRA/345/2018 JUDGMENT DATED: 12/01/2023

 undefined

plaintiff, i.e. the respondent. Defence is raised that such issue
cannot be decided at this stage. Such defence in view of undisputed
fact would not be available to the plaintiff and deserves rejection.
The suit is based on suppression of fact and therefore abuse of
process of Court and therefore, deserves rejection on this count as
well. 44. For the forgoing reasons, the impugned order dated 25.4.2018
is not sustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set
aside and is hereby quashed and set aside. The civil revision
application is allowed. The plaint, aforementioned, fails and stands
rejected. Rule is made absolute. No order as to costs. Sd/- (SANGEETA K. VISHEN,J)
Binoy / Sindhu / Ravi / Hitesh Page 41 of 41 Downloaded on : Sun Sep 17 20:45:48 IST 2023