Through: Mr. Ajay Monga with Mr. Ateev. K. Mathur and Mr. Devmani Bansal,
 Advocates, for Resp. No.5. CORAM: it also sought to restrain the other defendants, including the fourth
defendant, the Malayan Bank (hereafter the "foreign bank") from honouring
a Letter of Credit (LC) issued by the Allahabad Bank at the behest of STC. 2. The suit relates to an „Associateship‟ agreement (dated 02.12.2011,

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 1
 hereafter "the AA") between the STC and Millennium for the import of
continuous cast copper rods. Millennium had been, as per its case before the
learned Single Judge, importing such rods from Synergic Material Services
PTE Ltd. and Synergic Industrial Material Services Malaysia, group
companies based in Singapore and Malaysia respectively (hereinafter
"Synergic, Singapore" and "Synergic, Malaysia" respectively, and
collectively as "the Synergic companies"). With a view to importing 400
metric tons of the rods, STC and Millennium entered into the agreement.
Under the AA, STC was to import the rods for Millennium through the
Synergic companies. Further, the agreement also stipulated that Millennium
shall provide STC with margin money as advance of 25% of the value of
the letter of credit to be opened by STC (Clause 4, agreement), along with a
25% cash advance and a post-dated cheque for 102.5% of the value of the
consignment in favour of STC along with a legal undertaking. (Clause 3, of
the agreement). The AA also provides for STC‟s trading margin (Clause 5,
AA), and stipulates in Clause 7, importantly, that Millennium shall,
 "7..................approve acceptance of quantity and quality
 certificate issued at loan port by Supplier/Manufacturer.
 Hence, the Buyer [MWPL] shall ensure that quality and
 quantity are in order................." 3. Under the structure of the transaction, an LC was to be opened by
STC through Allahabad Bank, payable to the two Synergic companies
through foreign bank (the negotiating and beneficiary bank). STC and
Millennium stated- in the plaint, that the manner in which the transaction
was worked was as follows: Oral orders were placed by Millennium on the
two Synergic companies and thereafter, the latter sent sales
contract/proforma invoices to STC. The proforma invoices were then to be
issued by Synergic, Singapore in favour of STC, specifically mentioning

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 2
 Millennium‟s name as "A/c - Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd." On the
acceptance of the said proforma invoice, final invoice was to be issued by
the two Synergic companies, as the case may be, which on acceptance by
Millennium was to be sent back to the two companies, and this constituted
the contract between STC/Millennium on one side and the two Synergic
companies on the other. At that stage, LCs were to be opened by STC
through Allahabad Bank payable to the two Synergic companies, as the
case may be, through foreign bank. 4. In terms of this arrangement, the rods were despatched from Port
Klang, Malaysia with the final destination being the International Container
Depot, Ludhiana. A number of documents were, in the ordinary course, sent
by the Synergic companies to Allahabad Bank, the issuing bank, with a
copy to STC. These included a bill of lading, letter of credit, beneficiary
certificate, beneficiary‟s letter of undertaking, facsimile letter, inspection
report, test certificate, advice of import bills received, invoice, packing list,
marine cargo insurance policy, certificate of Malaysian origin, and shipping
agent‟s certificate. Here, it is stated that the advance copy of these
documents were sent through courier to STC, which in turn sought
acceptance from Millennium. The STC averred that the courier receipt of
dispatch of the above documents was one of the negotiable documents
presented under the LCs to Malayan Bank and sent to Allahabad Bank.
Under this arrangement, STC states, the Synergic companies could
negotiate the LCs with the foreign bank for release of the payment, which
in turn was entitled to claim the amount from Allahabad Bank. 5. A total of four LCs were opened by STC for the import of the rods
from Synergic, Singapore. These were: b. L/C No. 0189111FLU000151, opened on 07.12.2011. This
 was negotiated by Malayan Bank with Allahabad Bank on
 12.12.2011. Acceptance was conveyed by Millennium to the
 foreign bank on 31.12.2011. The bill of lading for the
 shipment of goods was dated 09.12.2011. The final payment
 for this LC has been made by the foreign bank to Synergic,
 Singapore. c. L/C No. 0189111FLU000154, opened on 17.12.2011. This
 was negotiated by the foreign bank with Allahabad Bank on
 22.12.2011. The bill of lading for the shipment of goods was
 dated 31.12.2011. The final payment for this LC has been
 made by the foreign bank to Synergic, Singapore. d. L/C No. 0189111FLU000159, opened on 02.01.2012. This
 was negotiated by the foreign bank with Allahabad Bank on
 06.01.2012. Acceptance was conveyed by Millennium to the
 foreign bank on 16.01.2012. The bill of lading for the
 shipment of goods was dated 07.01.2012. 6. The plaintiffs, Millennium and STC contended before the learned
Single Judge that the two Synergic companies had defrauded STC, because
the documents concerning shipment of the products were false and
fabricated. Both before the learned Single Judge, and in the appeal
memorandum presently, instances of alleged fraud have been urged by

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 4
 STC. It was argued that the Synergic companies made false statements as to
sending couriers with the relevant documents (as mentioned above) to STC,
and that on checking with DHL and Skynet Courier, (the courier companies
involved), the shipment waybill numbers were found to have no attached
package sent to STC, or that these waybill numbers did not exist. Based on
this, it was argued that the two Synergic companies had fabricated the
documents in question, and thus, played a fraud on STC. 7. It was argued furthermore, based on the plaint allegations, that the
bills of lading for the shipments were also forged, as the shipping Agent
denied having ever issued them, and that no shipment had in fact been
physically sent, as was falsely communicated to STC and Millennium.
Also, based on correspondence with the authorities at Port Klang, it was
argued that the vessels on which the shipment was alleged to have been sent
were not available for loading at the port on the days indicated by the bills
of lading, further pointing to fraud. Therefore, given that the bills of lading,
which were the ultimate proof of export, were fabricated, it was argued that
clear evidence of fraud is available, so as to annul the letters of credit in this
case. 8. In view of these arguments, and the evidence of fraud played by the
two Synergic companies upon STC, and also Millennium, the plaintiffs,
STC and Millennium approached the learned Single Judge for a decree of
permanent, mandatory and perpetual injunction against Synergic, Singapore
from claiming any benefit under the LCs in question, and against the
foreign bank to prevent any action, or release of funds, under the LC. 9. The defendants, i.e. the Synergic companies and the foreign bank, in
response to the summons, entered appearance and resisted the suit claim.
The foreign bank also filed an application for rejection of plaint, under Order VII Rule 11 CPC . In this, it was urged that it had accepted the

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 5
 documents since they were in conformity with the terms of the LCs. The
LCs were negotiated on 12th, 14th and 22nd December 2011 and 6th
January 2012 respectively. The amounts were accordingly paid to Synergic
Singapore. The stand is that any dispute between STC and Synergic
Singapore could not impede reimbursement to be made to the foreign bank
in accordance with UCP-600 (Uniform Customs and Practice for
Documentary Credits, Sixth Edition) hereafter referred to by its acronym
"UCP-600". It is stated that the foreign bank did not receive any notice in
accordance to Article 16 of UCP-600 from the Allahabad Bank. It was
stated that as regards LC No. 151, no notice under Article 16 of UCP-600
was received from the said Allahabad Bank. A message dated 31st January
2012 was received from Allahabad Bank that it would not make payment
under the said LC as the STC "alleged the documents to have been
fabricated and that the Letter of Credit was fraudulently negotiated." With
respect to LC No. 154, the stand is that no notice from STC under Article
16 of UCP-600 was received by the foreign bank. It was only on 15th
March 2012 it received copy of the order dated 2nd March 2012 from the
lawyers of the Plaintiffs. In relation to LC No. 159 it is stated that
Allahabad Bank confirmed receipt of the documents by a message dated
16th January 2012 and undertook to make the payment. However, later it
reiterated that STC had alleged that the documents were fabricated. 10. Contrary to this, STC had argued that with respect to LCs 150, 154
and 159, "the plaintiffs (i.e. STC and MWPL) came to know that the
Defendant No. 2 company had manufactured courier receipt to demonstrate
export and had falsely declared that fax message have been sent and further
fabricated other documents to prove exports". With respect to LC 151, STC
had argued that the documents received were duly rejected and this fact was
communicated to Allahabad Bank. RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 6 11. In this context, Allahabad Bank‟s stand was that "after receiving
from Plaintiff No. 2 acceptance of the sets of documents received from the
Defendant No.4, the answering Defendant No.1 communicated the same to
the Defendant No. 4 advising the due dates of payment in respect of the
following three LCs: (a) 0189111FLU000150 (b) 0189111FLS000154 (c)
0189112FLU000159." Thus, the Allahabad Bank confirms that with respect
to these 3 LCs, at the least, complying presentation was made, and that
acceptance from STC (and Millennium) was made. 12. The foreign bank contended that in terms of UCP-600 once the LC
stands paid by the negotiating bank, it is an irrevocable undertaking of the
issuing bank to make the payment especially when it has accepted the
documents and agreed to pay on the date of maturity. It is stated that there
is no allegation of fraud against Allahabad Bank, the Synergic Companies
and the foreign bank, the plaint had to be rejected. The foreign bank also
relied on the judgment of the Supreme Court in United Commercial Bank v.
Bank of India , (1981) 2 SCC 766. It stated that payments were made by it
(the foreign bank) to Allahabad Bank without any knowledge of fraud and
therefore, Allahabad Bank was obliged to honour its commitment under
each of the LCs in terms of UCP-600. As regards LCs 150, 154 and 159,
the foreign bank, in line with the stand of Allahabad Bank, maintains that
the documents were accepted by STC, and thus, no dispute arises in that
regard. As regards LC 151, the foreign bank argues that, again, notice under Article 16 of UCP-600 was made, such that payment under the LC could be
injuncted within the framework of UCP-600, which is argued to regulate
the entire LC transaction, as opposed to the contractual relations between
STC/Millennium and the Synergic companies. 13. The foreign bank also sought vacation of the interim stay granted by
the order dated 2nd March 2012. Reliance was placed upon Articles 4 , 5 , 15 RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 7
 and 16 of UCP-600 to argue that the underlying contract is independent of
the letter of credit, which constitutes a distinct agreement to pay upon
complying presentation in terms of UCP-600. Specifically, it was argued
that once the documents required to release the payment under the LC have
been presented, and are in compliance with the requirements under the
terms of the LC, then the bank is under an obligation to make the payment
irrespective of the views of the purchaser, as any dispute that the latter may
have against the seller is to be raised inter se in alternate proceedings. Thus,
it was argued that "as there is no discrepancy in the documents ... non-
acceptance of documents by Plaintiff No.2, in such circumstances, is of no
consequence." 14. The learned Single Judge rejected the suit under Order VII, Rule 11,
for failure to disclose a cause of action. Though the learned Single Judge
records and appreciates the various allegations of fraud levelled by STC
against the two Synergic companies, the plaint was rejected on two
grounds: first, that a letter of credit constitutes an independent transaction,
obligations under which are not contingent on the intricacies of the
underlying contract, but rather, on the presentation of the necessary
documents to the bank in question; secondly, that given the general
proscription on interfering with letters of credit, the only limited exception
is that of fraud played upon by the seller on the purchaser, if, crucially, the
paying bank has notice of such fraud. In the absence of such notice, the
learned Single Judge held, the obligation to pay under the LC continues and
the defrauded party will have to pursue independent litigation against the
seller to recover the money. Accordingly, the learned Single Judge also
vacated the interim stay granted by the order dated 02.03.2012 in IA No.
4103/2012 in CS(OS) 545/2012. In reaching this decision, and in reliance
on various decisions of the Supreme Court, the learned Single Judge

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 8
 concluded on the points of law involved in this case as follows: 15. In the absence of any substantial pleadings on the knowledge of the
foreign bank of the fraud, the learned Single Judge held that the cause of
action disclosed in the plaint which comprised solely of allegations of fraud
against the two Synergic companies and not of any specifics of fraud
committed by the foreign bank, or of notice given to the foreign bank of the
fraud, was insufficient to merit the final prayer, and thus liable to rejection
under Order VII Rule 11 CPC . 16. The appellant argues that the fraud urged here was of a kind that
could clearly be termed "egregious" and manifestly perceptible for anyone
to see, to justify a remedy in equity. It was argued that the documents
clearly revealed that the bills of lading were issued much prior to the dates
when the goods could be shipped in terms of the contract and especially
contrary to the terms of the letters of credit. Counsel for the STC sought to
urge that the instructions clearly were to ship the goods by the end of
December; yet the bill of lading revealed that it was issued at least two
weeks prior to that; furthermore, there was clearly a manipulation, visible to

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 9
 the naked eye. The failure or omission by the Allahabad bank to notify the
foreign bank about discrepant documents and return them in accordance
with UCP-600 did not mean that the Court had to deprive itself of the
jurisdiction to grant equitable relief, of injunction. 17. The limited question that arises in this case is whether payment by
the negotiating bank under a letter of credit can be injuncted. As the
Supreme Court recognized in United Commercial Bank v. Bank of India ,
AIR 1981 SC 1426,
 "48...............[i]t is only in exceptional cases that the courts will
 interfere with the machinery of irrevocable obligations
 assumed by bunks. They are the life-blood of international
 commerce. Such obligations are regarded as collateral to the
 underlying rights and obligations between the merchants at
 either end of the banking chain. Except possibly in clear cases
 of fraud of which the banks have notice, the courts will leave
 the merchants to settle their disputes under the contracts by
 litigation or arbitration as available to them or stipulated in
 the contracts. The courts are not concerned with their
 difficulties to enforce such claims; these are risks which these
 merchants take. In this case the plaintiffs took the risk of the
 unconditional wording of the guarantees. The machinery and
 commitments of banks are on a different level. They must be
 allowed to be honoured, free from interference by the courts.
 Otherwise, trust in international commerce could be
 irreparably damaged." This principle is also reflected in Article 4(a) , UCP-600, which is binding
as regards the LC contracts are concerned: Consequently, the undertaking of a bank to honour, to
 negotiate or to fulfil any other obligation under the credit is not
 subject to claims or defences by the applicant resulting from its

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 10
 relationships with the issuing bank or the beneficiary. A beneficiary can in no case avail itself of the contractual
 relationships existing between banks or between the applicant
 and the issuing bank." Similarly, Article 5 also creates the distinction between the documents to be
presented to the bank for release of payment, and the products/goods that
those documents are concerned with ultimately, in the following words: 18. It is well-established in Indian law, as the learned Single Judge
correctly noted, that payment under an LC can be injuncted only when (a)
there is a possibility of irretrievable damage, in that the buyer may not be
able to recover the money already released by the negotiating bank, or (b)
where there is fraud in the underlying transaction which is brought to the
notice of the bank. This was clearly recognized by the Supreme Court in Federal Bank Ltd. v. VM Jog Engineering Ltd. and Ors. , (2001) 1 SCC
663: 20. This obligation is not affected merely because the buyer disputes the
due performance of the contract. The obligation is unaffected, as long as the
documents presented are in accordance with the terms of the LC. That is the
essence of the documentary autonomy of the LC. In this case, the
documents presented for LCs 150, 154 and 156 were in order, and this was
never disputed by STC or Millennium. Quite to the contrary, STC admitted
to having conveyed its acceptance with respect to these three LCs to
Allahabad Bank. As regards LC 151, the foreign bank‟s position is that the
documents complied with the requirements under the LC, and, the
obligation therefore, to pay was triggered. Here, Article 16 , UCP-600 is
crucial, which reads as follows: 21. Article 16(f) , therefore, casts a responsibility on the issuing and
confirming banks to be diligent in following the provisions of Article 16 ,
failing which the documents would be deemed to constitute complying
performance for the purpose of releasing payment under the LC, with or

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 13
 without the waiver from the buyer. Crucially, the decision as to whether the
documents constitute complying presentation is solely that of the issuing
bank (i.e. its "sole judgment", in terms of the sub-clause (b), in this case,
Allahabad Bank), which may, in case a discrepancy in the documents is
found, approach the buyer for a waiver. However, in a case where the
issuing bank does decide that the documents do not meet the compliance
requirements under the LC, in terms of clause (c), such notice must be
given "no later than the close of the fifth banking day following the day of
presentation." 22. Thus, in case the payment under the LC is to be injuncted, a notice
under Section 16 is mandatory, within the terms of that article. In this case,
as regards LCs 150, 154 and 159, the documents were accepted by
Allahabad Bank, and no notice was given under Section 16 , thus rendering
payment under those LCs by the foreign bank proper. As regards LC 151,
the only LC as regards which STC/Millennium claim to have rejected the
documents, two points are important: first, that under Article 16 , UCP, it is
the sole judgment of Allahabad Bank to determine whether the documents
constitute a complying presentation, and if that bank does so determine, the
non-acceptance by the buyer (STC/Millennium) is not determinative.
However, if Allahabad Bank were to determine that the documents do not
constitute complying presentation, the same could be waived by
STC/Millennium. In this case, however, as regards LCs 150, 154 and 159,
no such question arose; whereas with regard to LC 151, the refusal to
honour the LC by Allahabad Bank (after receiving notice of non-acceptance
by STC) came after 5 days from presentation of the LC by the foreign bank.
In such a case, the terms of Article 16(d), read with 16(f), are clear, in that
payment under the LC subsequently by the foreign bank cannot be objected
to. RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 14 23. In this context, it would be necessary to recollect the status of UCP-
600 and all its previous versions. International documentary credit practise
and law has been codified as a collaborative (and one may add, co-
operative) effort and spirit to ensure consistency of approach of all banking
and financial institutions dealing with such instruments. The importance of
recognizing the normative compulsions and binding effect upon those
dealing with such instruments has been underlined time and again. In
Schetze & Fontane, Documentary Credit Law throughout the World (2001)
(ICC Publication No 633), there is a useful discussion at paragraph 2.2.4 on
the relationship of national law and the UCP where the meaning of the UCP
is in dispute or UCP does not contain an express provision for the issue that
is before a national court: The Court of Appeals in the UK, recognized this principle in Glencore
International AG v Bank of China 1996 (1) Lloyd‟s Rep 135: 24. Dealing with a somewhat analogous set of circumstances, the UK
Court of Appeals, in Fortis Bank SA/NV and another v Indian Overseas
Bank 2011 (2) Lloyd‟s LR 33, held that: Thus, the issuing bank (in this case, the Allahabad Bank) was under an
 obligation to state its position and either accept or reject the documents.
 It chose to accept the documents and after considerable lapse of time,
 informed the foreign bank about the discrepancy. Clearly it could not do

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 16
 so, in view of Article 16 UCP. 25. Coming finally to the question of fraud, STC alleges fraud by the
two Synergic companies upon itself. While fraud is an exception to
honouring an LC, it is crucial such the foreign bank had notice or
knowledge of such fraud before it made the payment, in order for the
exception to be applicable. This question was considered by the Supreme
Court in UBS AG v. State Bank of Patiala , 2006 (5) SCC 416, in the
following terms: 26. The fact that fraud in itself existed or exists, is insufficient, but what
is material is that, notice of such fraud to the foreign bank must be proven -
a factor recognized by the Supreme Court in Himadri Chemicals Industries
Limited v. Coal Tar Refining Co. , (2007) 8 SCC 110, in stating that
 "XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 17 11.......................the evidence must be clear both as to the
 fact of fraud and as to the bank's knowledge..........." 27. In order, therefore, to disclose a cause of action, both elements must
be pleaded. Whist the plaint in this case disclosed sufficient pleadings (and
supporting evidence) as to the alleged fraud played upon STC/Millennium
by the two Synergic companies, the only reference to the foreign bank‟s
knowledge of such fraud is found in paragraphs 17 and 47 of the plaint
which only disclose the mere assertion that the foreign bank "is in active
collusion with" the Synergic companies, and that the facts give "rise to a
suspicion, that it (Malayan Bank) is hand in glove" with the Synergic
companies. 28. There is no doubt that the "failure of the pleadings to disclose a
cause of action is distinct from the absence of full particulars" ( Liverpool
and London SP and I Asson Ltd. v. MV Sea Success I and Another , (2004) 9
SCC 512; at the same time, in cases of fraud, the Court has recognized that
 "144. ..........................the material facts are required to be
 stated but not the evidence except in certain cases where the
 pleading relies on any misrepresentation, fraud, breach of
 trust, wilful, default, or undue influence." (emphasis supplied) 29. The plaint, in the present case refers casually and vaguely, without
referring to any details, to the question of notice of fraud on the foreign
bank, which forms a crucial part of the cause of action. As recognized by
the Supreme Court in ITC Limited v. Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal
and Others , (1998) 2 SCC 70, the mere circumstance that the goods were
not shipped would not, ipso facto, lead to an inference of fraud and further
particulars are to be placed on record. As the Court noted: 30. The ratio in UP Cooperative Federation Ltd. v. Singh Consultants
and Engineers (P) Ltd. , (1988) 1 SCC 174, in the opinion of this Court, too
applies squarely to this case. The Supreme Court observed that the: 31. Indeed, the "whole purpose of conferment of such powers is to
ensure that a litigation which is meaningless and bound to prove abortive
should not be permitted to occupy the time of the court" ( Azhar Hussain v.
Rajiv Gandhi , 1986 SCR (2) 782, paragraph 12). Thus, in such a case, given
the absence of any particulars pleaded, or any evidence to support, the
claim that the foreign bank colluded with the Synergic companies, or even
had notice of such fraud, the claim as disclosed in the plaint is bound to fail,
as the cause of action pleaded does not entitle STC to the remedy it prays
for. In other words, even if fraud as alleged is proved (by the Synergic
companies on STC/Millennium), this would not lead to the remedy that the
foreign bank is to be prevented from releasing any benefit, or the Synergic
companies are to be refused any benefit, under the LCs in question. 32. Thus, for the reasons above, this Court finds no reason to interfere

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 19
 with the order of the learned Single Judge. The appeal and pending
application are accordingly dismissed, but with no order as to costs. S. RAVINDRA BHAT
 (JUDGE)

 NAJMI WAZIRI
 (JUDGE)
DECEMBER 10, 2013

RFA (OS) 139/2013 Page 20