?If There’s One Story To Read Today

The IT Ministry has pulled yet another move which has resulted in unintended consequences. By blocking five domain registrars, including the popular Namecheap, the government has prevented users who have domains registered with these sites from accessing their domain-related settings such as renewals, transfers, and DNS configuration.

Suppose MediaNama’s domain, which is with Namecheap, is due for renewal this month (luckily it’s not), what can we do without access to our customer portal? Or what if another company that’s hosted on Namecheap wants to change its DNS settings to work with a new email provider? Tough luck.

The reason behind the blocking is a Delhi HC order which finds these domain registrars not in compliance with IT Rules, 2021, but it’s not clear if the government can block sites for this because section 69A doesn’t specifically have non-compliance as a grounds for blocking.

For more on why the websites were blocked, read our 2-minute story here .

Can user verification prevent scams? How can we protect our sensitive data while undergoing government verification? Can verification prevent harm to children? We will be raising and discussing these, and more such questions, at our hybrid roundtable on ‘Exploring User Verification’ at The Claridges in New Delhi on March 23 , 2023. Come and join us by registering here . Want to know more? Read here .

STARTUPS

Trust India’s banking system: When you see an opportunity you grab it. The SVB crisis gave the Indian government the perfect opportunity to encourage Indian startups to set up shop in India rather than abroad and the IT Minister made sure to capitalise on it by advising startups to do their banking with Indian banks. But what is to prevent a similar bank collapse in India? Remember, hindsight is always 20/20. [Read ?, 2 minutes]

DIGITAL ADVERTISING

More about ethical ads: The Advertising Standards Council of India has shifted its focus back on the education sector after complaints about misleading ads continue to concern stakeholders. Pivoting from a traditional set of guidelines about truth and fairness, the proposed changes also focus on unaddressed social and mental concerns of users as they feel targeted by multimedia ads from different platforms. [ Read ?, 3 minutes]

PRIVACY AND DATA GOVERNANCE

SFLC says no to Aadhaar mandate: SFLC.in has filed a representation to the government challenging the mandatory requirement of Aadhaar details to access Grievance Appellate Committees (GACs). They have a point. Why must Aadhaar be the only valid document for government identification? It’s worrying that the government is still pushing for the use of Aadhaar for everything despite the court’s direction to restrict Aadhaar usage to its original intention. [ Read ? , 3 minutes]

ONLINE GAMING AND GAMBLING

Where does the buck stop? : Last year, an online gamer in Tamil Nadu died by suicide. Investigating agencies identified gaming platform PlayGames 24×7 as a culprit—charging it with criminal provisions on murder. The Mumbai-based platform argued that the last time the deceased had even played online rummy on its platform was way back in 2017. What’s on our mind: can a platform be implicated in someone’s death? [ Read ? , 2 minutes]

E-COMMERCE, DIGITIZATION OF HEALTH

E-pharmacies on the chopping block? : The government is reportedly considering shutting down e-pharmacies for their “misuse of data”. This comes after much regulatory uncertainty for the sector—just last month India’s drugs regulator pulled up over 20 companies for selling drugs online without licences! [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

Microsoft lays off team that taught employees how to make AI tools responsibly [Read] (Joe Schiffer and Casey Newton/ The Verge)

Signature Bank seizure creates obstacles for crypto industry while promoting ‘unbanked’ innovations [Read] (Jacquelyn Melinek/ Tech Crunch)

The End of Silicon Valley (Bank) [Read] (Stratecherry)

African online pharmacies are leapfrogging an e-commerce giant [Read] (Lauren McHugh Olende/ Quartz)

GM plans to let you talk to your car with ChatGPT, Knight Rider-style [Read] (Benj Edwards/ Ars Technica)

Demand for deepfake pornography is exploding. We aren’t ready for this assault on consent [Read] (Moira Donegan/ The Guardian)

Microsoft Strung Together Tens of Thousands of Chips in a Pricey Supercomputer for OpenAI [Read] (Dina Bass/ Bloomberg)

India probing ‘several’ crypto cases for money laundering, seizes over $115 million [Read] (Manish Singh/ Tech Crunch)

India now has 600 mn open Internet users, 62 mn more than walled gardens [Read] (IANS/ Business Standard)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event