1. The petitioner is seeking the concession of bail under

Section 482 BNSS in case FIR No.190 dated 30.06.2024 under Sections

34 , 384 , 506 of the IPC registered at Police Station Sector 31, Faridabad. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the

petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case along with

other co-accused, for allegedly extorting a sum of more than `45 lakhs

through a honey-trap scheme involving the complainant. Drawing the

Court's attention to the FIR, annexed as Annexure P-1, learned counsel

submits that a mere perusal of the FIR reveals no direct allegation

against the petitioner. It is argued that the petitioner was implicated

solely on the basis of the disclosure statement of the co-accused, the

evidentiary value of which is inherently weak. 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 04-10-2024 23:07:04 ::: CRM-M No.45864 of 2024 Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:130058 2 3. Learned Counsel further submits that all the accusations

primarily pertain to co-accused Anita and her husband, who are alleged

to have honey-trapped the complainant and coerced him into depositing

an amount of approximately `15,50,000/-. The petitioner, it is argued,

was merely a tenant of co-accused Anita, and the bank transactions in

question were initiated by Anita in her capacity as the landlady. The

money deposited into the petitioner's account, according to learned

counsel, was simply returned to another account belonging to Anita.

These transactions, counsel submits, were purely for the purpose of

returning the funds sent by Anita, without any criminal intent on the part

of the petitioner. 4. Per contra, learned State Counsel, on instructions, has

strongly opposed the prayer and the submissions made by the counsel

opposite. He contends that the petitioner, along with co-accused Anita

and Makkhan Singh, was part of an organized extortion racket, using

honey-trapping as a means to threaten and extort innocent people. It is

alleged that the petitioner, in collusion with the co-accused, extorted a

total of `45 lakhs from the complainant. Further, the learned State

counsel submits that there is documentary evidence showing the transfer

of money from co-accused Anita's account to the petitioner's account,

which was later transferred back to another account belonging to Anita.

Both the documentary evidence and the disclosure statements of the co-

accused, it is argued, clearly indicate to the involvement of the petitioner

in the operation of the extortion racket. 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 04-10-2024 23:07:05 ::: CRM-M No.45864 of 2024 Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:130058 3 5. The learned State counsel has also informed this Court that

the anticipatory bail of co-accused Makkhan Singh has already been

dismissed by this Court. Moreover, the learned State counsel has

asserted that the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is essential to

fully uncover the modus operandi of the extortion racket. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the

relevant material on record. 7. Prima facie, there are serious allegations against the

petitioner qua his active involvement in a racket that extorted money

from innocent people by means of honey trapping. There are further

specific allegations that the petitioner personally received `15,50,000/-

into his own account. 8. In light of the seriousness of these allegations, the Court

therefore, does not deem it appropriate to grant the extraordinary

concession of anticipatory bail to the petitioner. The petition stands

dismissed. However, it is made clear that anything observed hereinabove

shall not be construed to be an expression of opinion on the merits of the

case.