1. Heard Shri Anadi Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the appellant, Shri Aditya Tiwari, learned counsel for complainant/ opposite party no.2 as well as learned AGA and perused the record. 2. The instant appeal has been filed by the appellant under Section 14-A (2) of Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 against the impugned order dated 9.8.2024, passed by the Special Judge, SC/ST Act, Lucknow, in Bail Application No. 5949 of 2024, arising out of Case Crime No. 234 of 2024, under Sections 147 , 323 , 504 , 506 , 342 , 354-A , 376 , 406 IPC an Sections 3(1) (Da) (Dha) , 3(2)(v) and 3(2) (v-a) of SC/ST Act, Police Station Thakaurgnaj, District Lucknow, whereby the application for bail has been rejected by. 3. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that it is a case of false implication. The FIR of this case has been lodged by one of the victims alleging therein that on the relevant day and time, the informant had gone to the house of appellant along with her sister in order to take back money and jewellery, which has been given by her to the appellant, however, they were physically assaulted and addressed with castiest remarks and an attempt was also made to murder them and the informant has also been molested. 4. While drawing the attention of this Court towards the statement of both the victims (informant and her sister) recorded under sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C., it is vehemently submitted that the text and toner of these statements would itself reveal that the main dispute between the parties is pertaining to the non-payment of money and some jewellery and this fact has also been admitted by the eldest sister of both the victims, whose statement has also been recorded by the Investigating Officer and it is also evident from the First Information Report, where there is no whisper pertaining to commission of rape. 5. It is further submitted that during the course of investigation a new story has been manipulated by the victims that one of the victim / informant has been subjected to rape and her nude video was filmed by the appellant, however, no such video and photograph has been recovered and thus, it appears to be a clear departure from the earlier version of the incident and thus, may not be believed. Both the victims are major and they have not sustained any visible injury, one of the victim / informant was in her advanced stage of pregnancy and if on holistic view of all the facts an circumstances is taken it will emerge that a simple incident of scuffle has taken place between the parties, which may not be termed as either molestation or rape. The appellant is in jail in this case since 21.06.2024 and he is not having any criminal antecedent and there is no apprehension that the accuse-appellant after release on bail, may flee from the process of law or may otherwise misuse the liberty. 6. Learned AGA as well as Shri Aditya Tiwari, learned counsel appearing for opposite party no.2/ complainant, vehemently opposes the prayer for bail of the appellant on the ground that huge amount of money as well as some jewellery of the informant/ victim has been taken by the appellant on the pretext that the same would be invested in order to yield high returns, however, the same has been misappropriated and on the basis of a nude video of the informant/ victim she was blackmailed and was also subjected to sexual assault multiple times, thus the appellant is not entitled to be released on bail. 7. Perusal of the record would suggest that in the FIR lodged by one of the victim, there is no whisper so far as the commission of rape is concerned and the dispute has been shown pertaining to an incident occurred at the house of the appellant when the victim and her sister had gone to take back their money and jewellery back. The victim as well as her sister has not sustained any visible injury. The informant at that point of time in advanced stage of pregnancy. The statement of elder sister of the victims was also recorded by the Investigating Officer and she has also stated about the existence of the dispute with regard to the payment of jewellery and money, however, a stray remark has been made by her with regard to the fact that informant/ victim had told her about sexual assault committed by the appellant. The independent witnesses whose statements have also been recorded by the Investigating Officer has only deposed of hearing some hue and cry coming out from the house of the appellant and emergence of the victims from the house of the appellant. However, that incident is shown to have been committed in the presence of all the family members of the appellant. The appellant is in jail in this case since 21.6.2024 and he is not having any criminal antecedent. 8. Thus, having regard to the above facts and circumstances of the case, in the considered opinion of this court material illegality has been committed by the trial court in rejecting the prayer of bail of the appellant. 9. In result, the appeal filed by the appellant is allowed and the order dated 9.8.2024, passed by the Special Judge, SC/ST Act, Lucknow, is hereby set-aside. 10. Let appellant- Abhishek Tiwari be enlarged on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following additional conditions, which are being imposed in the interest of justice:- 11. Observations made herein-above are only for the purpose of disposal of bail application and the same shall not have any bearing on the trial of the case. Order Date :- 13.9.2024
 
Muk