While China supports AI innovation, “content generated by generative AI had [sic] to be in line with the country’s core socialist values,” said the country’s cyberspace regulator while releasing rules to regulate the technology yesterday, reported Reuters .

Why it matters : There’s a global regulatory overhaul underway—and generative AI, including technologies based on it like ChatGPT, are partially behind it. Countries are scrambling to figure out how to regulate these booming technologies according to their own national goals and rights-based principles. For example, some argue that a technology like ChatGPT, which doesn’t always provide factually correct outputs, could worsen the Internet’s misinformation problem. In China, where the information ecosystem is controlled by the state, this threat is clearly framed. However, the rules also indicate an awareness of the need to formally regulate the harms of AI—a position that countries like India are yet to warm up to.

What else do the rules say? : Companies will be responsible for the “legitimacy of data” used to train their generative AI products, according to draft measures released by the Cyberspace Administration of China. Anti-discrimination measures should be taken while designing these algorithms too. Companies may also have to submit security assessments to the government first, before publicly launching their services.

They should also address “inappropriate content” their platforms generate by updating their technology within three months so that similar content is prevented from being re-generated. Users of these platforms will also be required to submit their “real identities” to service providers, along with other information. Failing to comply with the rules can result in fines, suspended services, or criminal cases for the companies.

Open to public comments until May 10th, the rules may become effective this year. They come after China’s SenseTime launched “SenseNova” on Monday, a ChatGPT “rival” also based on generative AI and “ large language models “.

How are other countries approaching the risks of generative AI? : Italy recently placed a temporary ban on ChatGPT over concerns that its data processing hurt Italians’ privacy rights. India doesn’t plan on regulating AI through a law for now, and is testing out government ChatGPT chatbots, among other AI-based services. On the flip side, a recent Europol report argued that ChatGPT-powered technologies make it easier for “malicious actors to perpetrate criminal activities with no necessary prior knowledge”. The US isn’t far behind, warning that chatbots can be used to  “generate spear-phishing emails, fake websites, fake posts, fake profiles, and fake consumer reviews, or to help create malware, ransomware, and prompt injection attacks.”

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event