Delivered by Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member. 1. The above case has been originally filed before the Hon‟ble High Court of
 Madras as W.P. No.43839 of 2016 for Writ of Mandamus directing the
 Respondents 1 and 2 to restore the entire remaining 39 acres of
 Villivakkam Konnur Lake along with its inlets and outlets with the
 assistance of Chennai River Restoration Trust or any other specialised
 authority in a time bound manner and ensure that the Lake is restored to
 its original state as a clean water body by removal of construction debris
 dumped by CMRL, respondent No.5 and pollutants discharged by
 Respondent No.3. 2. It was alleged in the application that the Arapporiyakkam a Trust filed
 the application through its Managing Trustee by name Shri Jayaram
 Venkatesan which is a non-governmental organisation registered under
 the Indian Trust Act, 1882 with Registration No. 304/2015. They involved
 in various social activities for the benefit of general public including flood
 relief and rescue activities, restoring water bodies, creating awareness on
 citizen‟s right in improving transparency and accountability in Page 2 of 44 Government and so on. This trust is an income tax assessee holding
 income tax PAN No. AAETA94549G. 3. The main water body of the Villivakkam area namely, the Villivakkam-
 Konnur Lake is situated on the North West of Chennai near the junction
 of Villivakkam - Padi area. The water body has been critical for both
 recharging ground water as well as the prevention of flood in the area.
 However, the Lake has shrunk in size greatly over the decades.
 According to the Revenue Map 1906 and Topper Sheet of Survey of India,
 1972, it was originally having an extent of nearly 214 acres and the
 revenue map and the topper sheets were produced along with the Writ
 Petition. The Lake has now been shrunk to 39 acres over the years SIDCO
 Industrial Estate and SIDCO Nagar Housing have come right on the Lake
 shrinking it in size by almost 80% over the last three decades. The Public
 Works Department which is the authority responsible with the
 maintenance of the tank and Lakes in Tamil Nadu handed over the
 Villivakkam Konnur Lake to the Tamil Nadu Housing Board. The exact
 date of transfer of ownership was not known. However, in the year 1991,
 Tamil Nadu Housing Board handed over the Lake to Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board for its usage. The purpose
 of the transfer is to establish a Sewage Treatment Plant. While all the
 water bodies must be under the control of Public Works Department,
 handing over the water body to another department for its use has made
 the water body thrown to mismanagement. 4. The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board in its reply
 under the Right to Information Act to the Petitioner through letter No.
 CMWSSB/STP(N)/RTI No.030878/1384/2016 dated 02.11.2016 declared
 that it was Tamil Nadu Housing Board that handed over the land to it
 and it did not have any copy of the Government Order with respect to the
 transfer of ownership. Even though the Villivakkam Konnur Lake shrunk
 greatly over the years, the remaining part of the Lake is still very critical
 for recharging groundwater and prevention of flood in the area. During
 the floods in 2005, most of the water drained into the Lake within a
 couple of days and the area did not see the major problem. The overflow Page 3 of 44 of the Lake flowed into Otteri Nallah which drained into Buckingham
 Canal. However, in December 2015, SIDCO Nagar located to the east of
 the Villivakkam Konnur Lake was one of the worst impacted during the
 monsoon. 5. The 5000 families residing around this Lake were so devastated that there
 were accounts of people starving for three days straight and many
 residents were have to vacate their houses. The water pumping stations
 were unable to function. The sewage lines started to leak and sewage
 water was flowing out of the toilets into the houses. Chennai Corporation
 used seven boats, 20 pump sets and 500 workers for rescue of operations
 in the area. The area continued to be water logged up to 3 feet for 10 days
 after the rain had receded. Several canals were dug on the road to drain
 the water from the low lying area. The main reason for flooding in SIDCO
 Nagar and South Jagannatha Nagar was due to the dumping of
 construction debris by Chennai Metro Rail from their construction sites
 into the Lake between 2013 to 2015. The construction debris from Metro
 Rail construction had been piled up to the height of 10 to 20 feet above
 the ground blocking the inlets into the Lake. The Chennai Metro Rail
 instead of disposing its construction debris properly, it had illegally
 deposited huge amount of construction debris into the Villivakkam-
 Konnur Lake and due to that the extent of 50% of the water body has
 been shrunk. Due to this, there was reverse flow from the Lake to the
 roads during 2015 floods as the natural gradient had been disturbed. 6. The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board in its reply to
 the applicant through letter dated 02.11.2016 accepted that it had actually
 given permission for dumping of construction debris to the extent of 20
 acres. Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board had no
 legal standing to allow dumping of construction debris into the water
 body and by going so, it had contributed heavily to the destruction of the
 water body. The Chennai Metro Rail Limited in its reply to the
 information sought under the Right to Information Act through their
 letter dated 25.11.2016 denied that it had dumped construction debris into
 the Villivakkam-Konnur Lake and they informed the applicant that Page 4 of 44 Villivakkam-Konnur Lake is not a disposal site for dumping their
 construction debris. It was contrary to the acknowledgement made by
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board in their reply
 letter dated 02.11.2016. 7. There was a newspaper report published in Hindu dated 10.09.2016 as to
 how Villivakkam got flooded due to the filling of construction debris into
 the Lake and blocked the entry of the water from all sides into the Lake.
 The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board which is in-
 charge of the Lake also using the Lake for discharging the sewage
 without treatment. They operated a sewage treatment plant in the Lake
 and stopped its operation a few years back. Ever since all the sewage of
 the entire Villivakkam which is collected into Villivakkam Pumping
 Station was being discharged into the Lake without any treatment. The
 natural entry point from Korattur Lake to Villivakkam-Konnur Lake or
 from Korattur Lake to Villivakkam Konnur Lake has been blocked.
 Instead a new concrete channel was being constructed to connect
 Korattur Lake to Otteri Nallah directly which bypasses the Villivakkam-
 Konnur Lake. This would make the Villivakkam-Konnur Lake a dead
 Lake as there would be no flow of fresh water into the Lake. 8. The applicant trust had conducted an audit regarding the same and made
 representation to the Public Works Department, Corporation of Chennai
 and Principal Secretary to Municipal Administration and Water Supplies
 on 08.08.2016 and 22.08.2016 to interfere in the matter and restore the
 water body and also conducted the public hearing inviting the residents
 from all areas of Chennai regarding Flood Preparedness on 28.08.2016.
 The applicant had met the Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration
 and Water Supplies on 28.08.2016 and 04.11.2016 and appealed for
 rejuvenation of Lake to its original status. They had met various
 authorities but they have not done anything. 9. The various directions issued by the Madras High Court in its Judgment
 on 27.11.2015 in T.K. Shanmugam Vs. The State of Tamil Nadu [W.P.
 No.1295/2009] including directions to restore the water bodies and take Page 5 of 44 measures to mitigate the possibilities of ill-effects of floods in future and
 also mentioned the reason for the flood was due to negligence on the part
 of the authorities in protecting the water bodies and make the water
 bodies free from pollution and encroachment. 10. As per G.O. Ms. No. 417 Public Works (K) Dept. dated 03.09.2003
 reiterated the necessity for retrieving the Lakes within the jurisdiction of
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board and those in their
 surroundings which are under the maintenance of Public Works
 Department on condition that the respective local bodies would take
 steps to transfer them to the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
 Sewage Board and the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage
 Board should ensure that caution would be taken to avoid floods and
 protection from pollution in all the Lakes around Chennai City which
 would come under its maintenance and it should take all possibility to
 ensure the possibility putting up bunds to protect the Lake and water
 sources from being encroached upon. Letting in sewage water without
 treatment into the water body and polluting the same will amount to the
 violation of Section 24 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
 Act, 1974. The dumping of waste in the water body will also amount to
 violation of Municipal Solid Waste Rules, 2000 which was then in
 existence, which includes the Management of Municipal Solid Waste,
 Demolition and Construction Waste, etc. 11. The responsibility of protection of water body by the States against
 encroachment and pollution was reiterated by the Apex Court in Lal
 Tiwari Vs. Kamala Devi and others [AIR 2001 Supreme Court 3215] as it
 is the duty of the State to protect the water bodies under Article 47 , 48-A and 51-A(g) of Constitution of India. In a similar matter, the Principal
 Bench of National Green Tribunal fined Delhi Metro to pay Rs.2.5 lakhs
 for violation of construction in respect of establishment of the Metro Rail. 12. Since no action was taken by the authorities, the applicant filed the Writ
 Petition seeking the following reliefs. 13. The Writ Petition was admitted by the Hon‟ble High Court of Madras
 and considered by the First Bench on several occasions, sought response
 from the authorities and thereafter as per order dated 13.02.2017
 transferred the case to this Tribunal and directed the parties to appear
 before this Tribunal on 28.02.2017. On receipt of the records, this Tribunal
 renumbered the case as OA. No.50 of 2017. When the matter was taken
 up on 12.10.2017, it was submitted before the Bench that out of 39 acres
 11.50 acres is under the control of Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply
 and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) and the remaining 27.50 acres has been
 handed over to Greater Chennai Corporation for the purpose of
 remediation and restoration. Out of 27.25 acres entrusted to Greater
 Chennai Corporation nearly 2.5 acres of land has been encroached and a
 DPR is under preparation for the purpose of restoration and maintenance
 of the water body. It was further noted in the order dated 12.10.2017 that
 in respect of extent of 11.5 acres of land which is under the control of
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB), it is
 informed that there has been an STP in that place for long time and it has
 become defunct and thereafter converted as a sewage pumping station
 and there was a proposal for putting up a full-fledged STP Plant. So, this
 Tribunal made it clear that any construction or structure within 11.50
 acres in any form shall not be carried out by the 3rd respondent and if the
 STP is to be established, it shall not be either in the water body or where
 the place the sewage was collected. It was also made clear that while
 restoring the 11.50 acres of land of the water body, the inlets and outlets
 shall be clean to ensure free flow of water body. 14. The 2nd Respondent filed counter affidavit before the High Court
 contending that as per the Original Revenue Records, the Villivakkam-
 Konnur Lake had an extent of about 214 acres. The Small Industries
 Development Corporation (SIDCO) Industrial Estate and Small Industries
 Development Corporation (SIDCO) Nagar Housing was developed by
 the Tamil Nadu Housing Board around the year 1980 in this Lake land. In
 order to treat the sewage generated in the SIDCO Nagar Housing area,
 Tamil Nadu Housing Board had developed and operated an Oxidation
 pond in 39 acres out of 214 acres in the year 1985 which was one of the
 type of Sewage Treatment at the prevalent time. The said oxidation pond
 was later handed over by National Highways to Chennai Metropolitan
 Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) during the year 1991 for
 future maintenance. In order to improve the treatment of sewage,
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) had
 proposed to construct a Sewage Treatment Plant at Villivakkam Sewage
 Treatment Plant land area. In view of the proposal for construction of
 new Sewage Treatment Plant, the low lying area inside oxidation pond at
 Villivakkam Sewage Treatment Plant has to be raised. At that time
 Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. had commenced the tunnel boring works in
 Chennai City for the Metro Rail Project and Chennai Metro Rail Ltd.
 requested to dump the earth, which was removed from the tunnel boring
 works, in the low lying area in the presence of the Chennai Metropolitan
 Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB). Since there was a proposal
 to construct new Sewage Treatment Plant at Villivakkam Sewage
 Treatment Plant area, the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. was permitted to
 dump the earth in low lying areas of Villivakkam Sewage Treatment
 Plant area. This would have saved Rs.3 crores for Chennai Metropolitan
 Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB), which would have
 otherwise spent for raising the low lying area. The intention of the Board
 was to provide better sewage management. The Villivakkam Oxidation
 pond was handed over by Tamil Nadu Housing Board to Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) for treatment
 of Sewage and it was found that no flood drainage entry point was
 available from Koratur Lake to Villivakkam oxidation pond from the
 period of taking over Villivakkam Oxidation Pond by the Board. The Page 8 of 44 water from Korattur Lake has natural flow to Otteri Nallah through a
surplus canal at Puthagaram and not as stated by the applicant. The
existing TVS canal which was used for conveying the surplus water of
buffer tank at rear side of Brakes India was in a much dilapidated
condition. The Greater Chennai Corporation was reconstructing the old
canal which still serve as a surplus water carrier buffer tank located at the
rear side of Brakes India. This Canal is located at the boundary of the
oxidation pond owned by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewage Board (CMWSSB) near Villivakkam Small Industries
Development Corporation Nagar area. There was no inlet from the
nearby areas to the Villivakkam Oxidation pond land area and hence
there was no blocking of inlet due to the dumping of earth in Villivakkam
Oxidation pond land area from the tunnel boring works of Chennai
Metro Rail Ltd. The Board had stopped the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. from
dumping the earth in Villivakkam Sewage Plant land area in the first
week of December 2014 itself and also the proposal of construction of
new Sewage Treatment Plant was shelved due to operational reasons.
They decided to divert the sewage received from Villivakkam Phase-I,
North Jegannathan Nagar and Villivakkam Sector „B‟ Pumping Station to
Kodungaiyur Sewage Treatment Plant for treatment where spare capacity
is available by constructing a new relay pumping station at Villivakkam
Sewage Treatment Plant land area for better treatment. So a new proposal
was formulated and the work was taken up under plugging of outfall
scheme for construction of new relay sewage pumping station to divert
the sewage from the above pumping stations to Kodungaiyur Sewage
Treatment Plant at a cost of Rs.85 lakhs. Now, all the works are nearing
completion. On commissioning of the said relay pumping station, new
sewage will be sent to Oxidation pond for treatment. The land in which
the oxidation pond is located is under the custody of Chennai
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB). Based on the
representation of the applicant about the dumping of debris earth in the
oxidation pond area owned by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply
and Sewage Board (CMWSSB), the Principal Secretary, Municipal
Administration and Water Supply Department, Government of Tamil
Nadu in the meeting conducted during November 2016 had instructed Page 9 of 44 the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) to
handover the pond to Greater Chennai Corporation for restoration
purposes after retaining a portion of the land required by the Board for
Sewer Treatment Plant construction. Accordingly the proposal had been
formulated to handover about 27.50 acres out of 39 acres of land of
Villivakkam Sewage Treatment Plant to Greater Chennai Corporation to
maintain the said water body with foot paths and minor parks retaining
11.50 acres with the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage
Board (CMWSSB) to maintain the said relay sewage pumping station and
also for future expansion of sewage facilities for the surrounding areas.
The Greater Chennai Corporation had requested the Tamil Nadu Urban
Infrastructures Finance Commission Ltd. to appoint a consultant for
preparing a detailed project report for the work of recharging the existing
pond by facilitating entry and existing ponds water and the formation of
walkways and highlights inside the pond provided overall support to the
entire echo systems comprising all floras and fonas. Based on this Greater
Chennai Corporation had conducted a Joint Inspection with the Chennai
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) and the
Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) had
given enter upon permission to the Corporation for the purpose. They in
coordination with the Agency for the preparation of detailed project
report in this regard, steps are being taken by the Corporation for this
purpose. Now the construction of relay pumping station by Chennai
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) at Small
Industries Development Corporation Nagar Villivakkam Sewage
Treatment Plant for diverting the sewage collected from Villivakkam
Phase-I pumping station North Jegannathan Nagar Pumping Station and
Villivakkam Sector-B Pumping Station to Kodungaiyur Sewage
Treatment Plant by laying pumping main were nearing completion. On
commissioning of new Relay Pumping Station, the sewage collected from
Villivakkam Phase-1 Pumping Station, North Jegannathan Nagar
Pumping Station and Villivakkam Sector B Pumping Station will be sent
to Kodungaiyur Treatment Plant for better treatment and there will not
be any necessity for using the oxidation pond for this purpose. They have
further submitted that they were not discharging any effluent or sewage Page 10 of 44 without treatment into the water body. So they prayed for passing
 appropriate orders accepting their contentions. 15. The 3rd Respondent had filed a detailed counter affidavit more or less
 reiterating the contentions raised by the 2nd respondent in their counter
 affidavit. They also submitted that they have no objection in any public
 agency restoring the water body and they will not be discharging any
 effluent into the land once the relay pumping station was commissioned.
 They prayed for accepting their contentions and passing appropriate
 orders. 16. The 4th Respondent filed counter affidavit reiterated the contentions
 raised in the reply affidavit filed by 2nd respondent regarding the manner
 in which the portion of Lake had been handed over and the steps taken
 by them for rejuvenation of the water body entrusted to them and also
 entrusting the same to an agency for preparing a detailed project report
 with the help of TNUIFSL. They prayed for accepting their contentions
 and passing appropriate orders. 17. The 1st respondent also filed reply affidavit more or less in tune with the
 contentions raised by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
 Sewage Board (CMWSSB) and the Greater Chennai Corporation. 18. The applicant filed rejoinder to the reply affidavits filed by various
 official respondents denying the allegations and reiterating their
 contentions raised in the Writ Petition and prayed for allowing the
 application. 19. The 5th Respondent had filed the Counter Affidavit contending that they
 received a request from 3rd respondent to fill up the low lying area under
 its purview in the treatment plant area including Villivakkam Sewage
 Treatment Plant and they have also received such a request from other
 private and Government agencies for supply of the muck and
 construction debris. The High Power Committee of Chennai Metro Rail
 Ltd. headed by the Chief Secretary of State of Tamil Nadu approved the Page 11 of 44 muck disposal in the sites owned by Government Agencies/
 Departments considering the social benefits. 5th respondent had no
 intention to work against the public interest and in the present case filling
 was done on specific request from another public agency. On specific
 request from Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board
 (CMWSSB), CMRL was assigned Villivakkam Sewage Treatment Plant
 area for disposal of muck and debris evidenced by the letter dated
 21.01.2013 sent by the Managing Director of the 3rd respondent Board.
 Their intention was only to fill up the low lying area based on specific
 request of the Government Department. The contractors were required to
 comply with the occupational health safety and environment
 requirements specified in the contract. Regular checking mechanism was
 in place to ensure its compliance. They were sparing the mucks and
 construction debris for filling up low lying areas on specific request not in
 any way cause obstruct drainage facility or environmental damage. They
 prayed for accepting their contentions and passing appropriate orders. 20. The applicant has filed rejoinder to this reply affidavit as well separately. 21. The 4th respondent filed detailed status report regarding the steps taken
 by them on the basis of directions by this Tribunal dated 15.12.2017,
 wherein they have mentioned that the detailed project report prepared by
 TNUIFSL for engagement of consultant for preparation of DRR for
 revamping and restoration of Villivakkam Tank under sustainable water
 security machine was approved by Greater Chennai Corporation and that
 was communicated to TNUIFSL. They completed the big process and
 issued letter of intent on 11.05.2017 to one M/s. Infrastructure
 Management and Advisory Services Pvt. Ltd. for the preparation of the
 above DPR. The scope of the work of the consultant includes among other
 things to prepare feasibility report and detailed project report. The
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB)
 accorded enter upon permission to Greater Chennai Corporation to the
 land inside Villivakkam Sewage Treatment Plant of Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) vide their
 letter dated 28.07.2017 to an area of about 27.5 acres to maintain the same Page 12 of 44 as a water body and also develop amenities like walking path, formation
 of minor park, etc. In the letter they have stated that Greater Chennai
 Corporation is requested to carry out the necessary work to maintain the
 land at Villivakkam Sewage Treatment Plant as water body and also to
 develop the amenities like walking path, formation of minor park, etc.
 and requested to take necessary action to construct the compound wall
 with RCC foundation and brickwork in superstructure for preparation of
 pumping station land area for proposed pond and also to avoid the entry
 of trespassers into the land as per the Boards approval. The consultant
 appointed for the purpose of preparation of DPR had conducted
 stakeholders meeting on 06.11.2017 wherein the Deputy Commissioner
 works and other officials of Greater Chennai Corporation, Officials of
 TNUIFSL Department, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage
 Board (CMWSSB) and representatives of Residents Welfare Association
 including the applicant (Arapporiyakkam) also participated. Elaborate
 discussions were made in the meeting regarding the rejuvenation of the
 Vilivakkam Tank. The consultant M/s. INMAAS was finalizing the draft
 final DPR and the final DPR would be submitted by the consultant
 shortly. After approval from the competent authority bid process would
 be initiated by Greater Chennai Corporation for carrying out the work of
 revamping and restoration of the Villivakkam Tank. They prayed for
 passing appropriate orders. 22. The 4th Respondent, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage
 Board (CMWSSB) filed a status report dated 02.01.2018 more or less
 reiterating the contents of the status report submitted by the Greater
 Chennai Corporation. 23. As per order dated 06.01.2020, this Tribunal after considering the
 pleadings and the status report submitted by various departments and
 the steps taken by them and also reiterated the responsibility of the State
 Government and the local bodies to maintain the water bodies which act
 as a balancing factor to maintain ecology and also for ground water
 recharge purpose and also the various directions issued by the Apex Page 13 of 44 Court reiterating the responsibility of the State Machineries to protect and
 framed the following terms of reference for getting a report namely; (a) What is the total extent of Lake as per revenue record (b) What is the extent of land given to Chennai Metropolitan Water
 Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) and SIDCO Housing Board; (c) What is the extent covered by oxidation pond; (d) What is the remaining area available for rejuvenation and
 restoration; (e) What are all the steps taken by the authorities to preserve and
 restore the Lake at least to the extent whatever now available to
 preserve, conserve and protect the water body, so as to improve the
 ground water recharge system. 24. The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB)
 was directed to submit their action plan for construction of sewage
 treatment plant as mentioned by them in the reply statement and indicate
 the location that has been identified by them for that purpose, as this
 Tribunal by an earlier order directed the authorities not to make any
 Sewage Plant in the available extent of water body. 25. This Tribunal also appointed a Joint Committee consisting of the District
 Collector, Chennai, Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation, one
 Senior Officer of Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board
 (CMWSSB) and Senior Engineer of State Public Works Department and
 Irrigation and Water Resources Department to go into the above
 questions referred to in the above terms of reference and also indicate a
 short term and long term steps to be taken for restoration of water bodies
 and if there is any encroachment other than the handing over area by the
 Government in a legal manner, remove the same and restore the same to
 its original position and submit a factual and action taken report in this
 regard. They were also directed to mention about the steps taken by the
 authorities to avoid discharge of untreated effluent/sewage into the Lake
 and steps taken for making the Lake pollution free and steps taken to
 remove the blocks if any, caused to the inlets and outlets of the Lake to
 collect surplus rain water during monsoon season. The Commissioner, Page 14 of 44 Greater Chennai Corporation was designated as Nodal Agency for this
 purpose. 26. The matter was adjourned from time to time on several occasions either
 by notification or at the request of the Committee Members. 27. The 4th respondent, the Corporation through its Executive Engineer filed
 a report stating that the Consultant M/s. IAMAAS had submitted final
 DPR for restoration of Villivakkam Tank including construction of
 compound wall for an original amount of Rs.15.98 Crores and the same
 was sanctioned under the Small City Fund. After following due tender
 procedure, work order was issued and the works were in progress.
 Desilting, excavation of pond and bund formation were nearing
 completion. The construction of toe wall and revertment was in progress.
 The construction of compound wall is nearing completion. The other
 amenities like Entrance Plaza, Children Play Area, Administration
 Building Construction and footpath were in progress. It was mentioned
 by the applicant who was appearing in person that only a portion of Lake
 was entrusted to Greater Chennai Corporation and some work was in
 progress. As regards the remaining area, no report has been filed. So, this
 Tribunal directed the other respondents to file their status report. 28. This Tribunal was dissatisfied with the attitude of the Committee in not
 filing the report and expressed the same in the order dated 03.12.2020.
 This Tribunal had taken up the matter on 18.01.2021 and considered the
 report submitted by the Regional Deputy Commissioner (Central),
 Greater Chennai Corporation dated Nil received on 12.01.2021 extracted
 in Para 3 of the order, wherein the following things were noted. a) Villivakkam Konnur Lake is situated in the North West of Chennai
 consists of 214 acres. b)The Public Works Department had handed over the Villivakkam Lake to
 the Tamil Nadu Housing Board c) Tamil Nadu Housing Board in turn allotted to SIDCO Industrial Estate
 and SIDCO Residential Blocks and 39 acres of land to Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) [T.S. No.1
 Block-35, 11.5 Acres/T.S. No.6 Block-1, 27.5 acres] d) In the year 1991 Tamil Nadu Housing Board handed over only 39
 acres of land to Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board
 (CMWSSB) 1. During the year 2016 Government of Tamil Nadu instructed
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board Page 15 of 44 (CMWSSB) to hand over 27.5 acres of land to Greater Chennai
 Corporation e) out of 27.5 acres of land handed over to Greater Chennai Corporation
 24.64 acres is under rejuvenation and restoration work of Villivakkam
 Lake and remaining land was encroached by slum dwellers for an extent of
 2.5 acres. f) Only 11.5 acres of land is under the control of Chennai Metropolitan
 Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB). As of now, there was no oxidation
 pond functional at the above location and the sewage generated from North Janata
 Pumping Station Villivakkam Sector B Pumping Station, Villivakkam Phase-1
 Pumping Station Villivakkam Phase-II Pumping Station was received 12 Mld
 which is pumped to Kodungaiyur Sewage Treatment Plant. They obtained
 administrative approval vide G.O.Ms.107 dated 20.08.2019 for proposed 30 Mld
 Tertiary Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant in the available 11.5 acres and feasible
 study for requirement of treated sewage from the nearby industries was under Further the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) in turn allots to SIDCO
 industrial estate and SIDCO residential blocks and 39 Acres land to CMWSSB (T.S.
 NO.1, Block 35, 11.5 acres/ T.S. No.6, Block I, 27.5 Acres). During the year 2016,
 Government of Tamil Nadu instructed CMWSSB to hand over to Greater Chennai
 Corporation 27.5 acres of land and out of 27.5 acres hand over to Greater Chennai
 Corporation, 24.65 acres is under rejuvenation and restoration work. Complaint and Writ Petition: Further, it has been stated that only 11.5 acres of land is under the control of
the CMWSSB. And as of now, there is no oxidation pond functional at the above
location and sewage from North Jaganatha Pumping Station, Villivakkam section „B‟
pumping station. Villivakkam Phase I pumping station, Villivakkam phase II
pumping station receives 12 MLD of sewage which is further pumped to Kodungaiyur
Sewage Treatment Plant. Further, CMWSSB has obtained administrative approval
vide G.O. No.107 dated 20.09.2019 for setting up a 10 MLD Tertiary Treatment
Ultra Filtration Plant. The effluent water from this plant shall be supplied to the
adjoining industries and for rejuvenation of nearby water bodies, as the product water
shall be devoid of nutrients. Report submitted by the PWD (Annexure II): 42. This Tribunal also considered the additional report dated 15.07.2021 filed
 by the Greater Chennai Corporation e-filed on 21.07.2021 extracted in
 Para 4 of the order which reads as follows. 43. The applicant filed reply to the statement filed by the 3rd respondent and
 the joint inspection report filed by the 4th respondent, wherein he had
 reiterated the allegations made in the application and also various
 decisions of various courts including the Hon‟ble High Court of Madras.
 That the Amusement Park which is proposed to be developed inside the
 Lake on the basis of Public Private Partnership for 20 years will nothing
 but encroaching into the water body and that will reduce the extent of the
 water body and storing capacity and they are only trustees of the water
 body and applying the Public Trust Doctrine they are not entitled to
 interfere with the water body and reduce its storing capacity. After
 considering these aspects this Tribunal passed the following order:- 44. The Principal Secretary/Managing Director - CMWSSB filed a report
 wherein they have reiterated the history of handing over the property to
 Tamil Nadu Housing Board and thereafter handing over the remaining
 property to Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board, the
 Greater Chennai Corporation and handing over certain portion of the
 Lake by CMWSSB to Greater Chennai Corporation and retaining certain
 portion out of 39 acres entrusted to them and the nature of work done by
 them in that property as narrated by Greater Chennai Corporation as well
 as CMWSSB in their earlier reports and narrated the subsequent incidents
 which was extracted in Para 6 to 9 of the report which reads as follows:- 45. The matter was again taken up on 21.03.2022 and considered the report
 submitted by the 3rd respondent dated 14.02.2022 e-filed on 17.02.2022
 which was extracted in Para 3 of the order. 46. The Greater Chennai Corporation also filed a report in the form of reply
 affidavit wherein they have mentioned about the works undertaken by
 them for rejuvenation of Villivakkam Lake and also mentioned about the
 necessity of Tertiary Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant to be put up in that
 area as according to them it would only improve the water quality in the
 Villivakkam Lake as it is a new technology that has been applied for the
 purpose of treating the water and discharging the treated water into the
 Villivakkam Lake. They have further mentioned that all
 recreations/entertainment activities are planned beyond the buffer zone
 of the water body only. According to the Greater Chennai Corporation
 the objections raised by the applicant regarding the bund etc. will apply Page 26 of 44 only to the natural water reservoirs and only Lakes and not to the Lake
 like developed Villivakkam tank. Applying to the Sustainable
 Development Principle it is necessary to rejuvenate the lands, which is
 required for the purpose of protecting the water body against
 encroachment and pollution being caused to the water body. 47. After considering these aspects, the Tribunal passed the following order:- 48. Thereafter the matter was taken up on 28.04.2022 and on that day this
 Tribunal considered the report submitted by the 3rd Respondent Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board dated 18.04.2022 e-filed on
 19.04.2022 extracted in Para 3 of the order which reads as follows:- 49. The 4th Respondent Greater Chennai Corporation also filed a report in the
 form of a reply affidavit through its Commissioner wherein they have
 mentioned about the works undertaken by them for rejuvenation of
 Villivakkam Lake. They also wanted Tertiary Treatment Ultra Filtration
 (TTUF) Plant to be put up in that area, as it will only improve the water
 quality in the Villivakkam Lake, as it is a new technology that has been
 applied for the purpose of treating the water and discharging the treated
 water into the Villivakkam Lake. They have further mentioned that all
 recreational/entertainment activities are planned beyond the buffer zone Page 27 of 44 of the water body only. According to the Greater Chennai Corporation,
 the objections raised by the applicant regarding the bund etc. will apply
 only to the natural water reservoirs and natural lakes and not the lake like
 developed Villivakkam Tank. They also relied on certain decisions to
 justify their activities, applying the principle of "Sustainable
 Development". But when it comes to the question of encroachment into
 the water bodies and Page 9 of 10 polluting the water bodies, the
 principle of "Sustainable Development" will not be a hurdle for
 protecting the water bodies, whether it is natural or manmade one. They
 have further relied on certain decisions of the Apex Court in N.D. Jayal
 and Anr. Vs. Union of India 2004(9) SCC 362 for the purpose of applying
 Sustainable Development to protect the water body. They further
 mentioned that in another project involving Lake bound area in city of
 Ahmedabad, Gujarat in the natural Lake called Kankaria Lake which was
 converted and developed as a Recreation Amusing Park by the
 Ahmedabad Local Body which has become a recreational and Tourist
 Attraction Spot in the Lake area having an extent of 76 acres. So, the
 present project envisaged by them will not have any impact on the water
 storing capacity of the Lake. 50. After considering the various reports submitted by the Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board and Greater Chennai
 Corporation, this Tribunal passed the following order:- 51. The matter was taken up on 02.05.2022 and on that day, the Greater
 Chennai Corporation has filed a report in the form of Reply through its
 Commissioner dated 29.04.2022, e-filed on 30.04.2022 wherein they have
 reiterated the various steps taken by them earlier from the inception of
 handing over the land to Tamil Nadu Housing Board then to CMWSSB
 and then to Greater Chennai Corporation and the further steps taken by
 them which were earlier mentioned in the various reports and replied
 and thereafter what was done by them was extracted from Para 7 to 15 of
 the report which alone is extracted by this Tribunal which reads as
 follows:- 52. The Counsel appearing for Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
 Sewage Board wanted some more time to file their further action taken
 report on the basis of the directions given by this Tribunal as to whether
 the balance extent of 8.5 Acres after retaining 3 Acres for the proposed Page 30 of 44 Tertiary Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant can be handed over to the
 Greater Chennai Corporation for the purpose of enhancing the extent of
 the Lake and make this also part of the Villivakkam Lake and the Learned
 Counsel submitted that the Board has to take a decision on this aspect. 53. Since the matter is of the year 2017, this Tribunal felt that the matter can
 be heard and taken for Judgment. 54. Heard the applicant who appeared in person and counsel for the
 respondents. 55. The applicant who appeared in person submitted that originally as per
 records, the Villivakkam Lake was having an extent of 214 acres which
 was now reduced to 39 acres as large number of constructions have been
 made. The total storing capacity of the Lake having extent of 214 acres
 has been reduced to the capacity within 39 and by virtue of further
 constructions made for creating Amusement Park etc. the storing capacity
 has been further reduced. Further, Tertiary Treatment Ultra Filtration
 Plant is being constructed within the Lake area 11.5 acres in the
 possession of CMWSSB against the orders of this Tribunal. Further, as
 per the directions of the Hon‟ble High Court of Madras in various
 decisions there was a direction to identify the encroachments in the water
 bodies and restore the water bodies to the original extent and protect the
 same. So, instead of making attempt to enhance the water spread area of
 the existing Lake, they are trying to reduce the same. So appropriate
 directions may be given to the authorities to restore and also rejuvenate
 the water body. 56. The counsel appearing for the State Department submitted that they were
 taking appropriate steps to rejuvenate all the water bodies and the
 Greater Chennai Corporation is taking effective steps to protect the
 Villivakkam Lake to the extent which has been entrusted to them and
 their action is only to enhance the utility of the Villivakkam Lake and it
 will not be detriment to the Lake as alleged by the applicant. 57. The counsel appearing for Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
 Sewage Board (CMWSSB) submitted that no sewage is being let into the
 Villivakkam Lake at present and the sewage generated in SIDCO Nagar
 and other surrounding areas is being diverted to the pumping station and
 taken to Kodungaiyur STP for treatment. Earlier there was an oxidation
 tank which was used for the purpose of treating the sewage generated in
 that area. Later it has become defunct and they proposed to set up a
 Tertiary Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant with all advanced technology to
 treat the sewage water which will be discharged into the Villivakkam
 Lake and that will only enhance the water storing capacity as being done
 in foreign countries and that will only help the rejuvenation process. 58. The counsel appearing for the Greater Chennai Corporation submitted
 that they have been entrusted with 27.5 acres of Villivakkam - Konnur
 Lake and after that was being entrusted to them, they are maintaining the
 same. They have strengthened the bund and they are proposing to set up
 Eco Amusement Part in that area. They have deepened the Lake and
 enhanced the water storing capacity than the capacity which was in
 existence when it was entrusted to them. Further, the construction, etc.
 that is going to be done is outside the bund and that will not reduce the
 water storing capacity and they will take all steps to protect the water
 body against pollution. If the Tertiary Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant is
 permitted to be constructed in that area, that will only enhance the water
 storing capacity by discharging the treated water into the Lake after
 maintaining the standard prescribed by the Pollution Control Board and
 that will in fact enhance the water recharge system in that area. This will
 also help to keep the Lake free from pollution and encroachment and it is
 being similar to the attempt was made in Gujarat in a lake and it was
 successful. The Learned Counsel also submitted if any remaining area is
 given by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board that
 also will be utilised for the purpose of adding to the Lake storing capacity
 and water storage facilities will be provided in that area as well. The
 Learned Counsel also submitted that once the resettlement process is
 completed the encroachers will be removed and that area will also be
 protected against further encroachment as well. 59. Considered the pleadings, documents submitted, reports filed and
 submissions made by the Counsel for the parties. 60. The points that arose for consideration are:- POINTS:- 61. The application was originally filed before the Hon‟ble High Court of
 Madras as Writ Petition No.37666/2016 and thereafter it was transferred
 to this Tribunal and this Tribunal after receipt of the same, renumbered
 the matter as O.A. No.50/2017. Even in the Writ Petition, the case of the
 applicant was that the Lake was having originally an extent of 214 acres
 and it was under the management of the Public Works Department and
 they had transferred a major portion of the land to Tamil Nadu Housing
 Board who had handed over to SIDCO and reduced the extent of the
 water body to 39 acres and in the area that has been handed over to
 SIDCO Industrial Estate and SIDCO Nagar Housing Colony has been
 established. Thereafter the area has been handed over to Tamil Nadu
 Housing Board who in turn handed over the same to Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board for their usage.
 Subsequently, an extent of 27.5 acres was handed over to Greater Chennai
 Corporation and balance extent was retained by Chennai Metropolitan
 Water Supply and Sewage Board and the prayer in the application was to
 maintain the existing extent of 39 acres of the water body by removing
 encroachments and directing the water body to be maintained by Public
 Works Department with the assistance of Chennai River Restoration
 Trust or some other agency as deem fit to be appointed by this Tribunal. 62. There was also an allegation that the Chennai Metro Rail Limited had
 dumped construction waste in the low lying area and it was seen from
 the reply affidavit that permission was granted to the Chennai Metro Rail
 Limited by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board for
 reclamation of the low lying area by dumping the debris but
 subsequently the same has not been carried out after filing of this
 application. It was also seen from the reports that earlier there was an
 oxidation pond in 11.5 acres of land in the possession of Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board and after alternate
 arrangements were made for diverting the sewage generated in SIDCO
 Housing Units and nearby areas to the pumping stations and then to
 Kodungaiyur Sewage Treatment Plant, the oxidation pond has become
 defunct. It is in that place, they proposed to set up a Tertiary Treatment
 Ultra Filtration Plant to treat the sewage and let into the Villivakkam
 Konnur Lake which is being rejuvenated by Greater Chennai Corporation
 by establishing an Eco Amusement Parks. It is also seen from the reports
 that it is a highly technologically developed plant and the treated water
 will have high standard and if the treated water is let into the water body
 that will only enhance the water storing capacity and quality of the water
 and that will prevent untreated sewage being let into the water body. 63. It is also seen from the Joint Committee Report that at present no sewage
 is being let into the Villivakkam Lake and certain work is being
 undertaken by Greater Chennai Corporation for setting up an Eco
 Amusement Park around the area. It is a settled law that it is the
 responsibility on the part of the State Government and the local bodies
 and the other State Instrumentalities to protect the water body against
 pollution and encroachment and wherever encroachments or
 contamination found, the same has to be rejuvenated and restored to the
 original position to protect environment as mandated under Article 48A of the Constitution of India. 64. It is seen from the report of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
 Sewage Board that out of area of 11.5 Acres in their possession, they
 require 3 Acres for the purpose of establishing the proposed Tertiary Page 34 of 44 Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant. Unless certain methodologies are
 adopted for the purpose of protecting the water body and making it as an
 Eco Friendly Amusing Park or other entertainment facility, it will be
 difficult for the Corporation to maintain the same against encroachment,
 but at the same time they are also not expected to reduce the water
 storing capacity. It is not possible to restore the entire 214 acres of land as
 found by the original revenue records as the same has now been
 converted into SIDCO Industrial Estate and SIDCO Housing Colony and
 other developments have been made in that area. Only 39 Acres have
 been now available as tank area of which 11.5 Acres is with the CMWSSB
 and remaining 27.5 Acres with the Greater Chennai Corporation. 65. It is seen from various reports that after the Greater Chennai Corporation
 had taken possession of 27.5 Acres of Lake area, lot of improvements
 have been made by strengthening the bunds and deepening the Lake and
 increased the water storing capacity and it was also mentioned in the
 report of the Greater Chennai Corporation that after the developments
 were made in the Villivakkam Konnur Lake no flood was experienced in
 that area as experienced in the year 2015 which was projected by the
 applicant in the application. 66. We feel that in order to enhance the water storing area leaving the 3 Acres
 which required for the purpose of establishing the plant by the Tertiary
 Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply
 and Sewage Board, the remaining area of 8.5 Acres can be directed to be
 handed over to Greater Chennai Corporation and that can be added to
 the Villivakkam Konnur Lake so that the water storing capacity can be
 increased by enclosing the same by scientific method to the area of the
 Villivakkam Lake which is now in the possession of the Greater Chennai
 Corporation. 67. So, appropriate direction can be given to CMWSSB to demarcate the 3
 Acres of land required for the purpose of establishing the Tertiary
 Treatment Ultra Filtration Plant for the purpose of treating the sewage
 generated and letting into the water body after treatment after achieving Page 35 of 44 the standard prescribed by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board in
 this regard and they can also be directed to enclose that area so as to
 avoid any encroachment into the further area in the Lake portion which
 was directed to be handed over to Greater Chennai Corporation and the
 Greater Chennai Corporation can be directed to take steps to take
 possession of that land and add that portion also with the existing Lake
 area to make it water storing area by providing link between the existing
 Villivakkam Lake and the proposed expanded Lake in the area handed
 over by the CMWSSB by applying scientific method without affecting its
 storing capacity and affecting the existing Lake by providing as many
 number of box vents in the bund provided to protect the Villivakkam
 Konnur Lake already by the Greater Chennai Corporation so that the
 extent of Villivakkam Lake can be enhanced from 27.5 Acres to at least 36
 Acres and the maximum extent of available 39 Acres can be utilized for
 the purpose of the Lake. 68. Taking into account the innovative lake development project on PPP
 mode which comprises multiple objectives of eco-system restoration,
 biodiversity improvement, groundwater recharge and educational cum
 recreational facilitation, it is noted that out of 27.5 Acres handed over to
 the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Corporation had created a deep
 lake in an area of 17.5 Acres with a storage capacity of 2,90,000 Cu.M. In
 the remaining area, the Greater Chennai Corporation has strengthened
 the bund along with the walkway over it and all the recreational and
 entertainment activities are being created beyond the bund of the lake.
 The Greater Chennai Corporation has also informed that two inlets with
 shutters and one outlet have been formed to ensure proper storage as
 well as flood mitigations. 69. The Greater Chennai Corporation has given a commitment that once
 CMWSSB transfers 8.5 Acres of land, it will be developed into a similar
 water body with 50,000 Cu.M. storage capacity and both the water bodies
 will be connected through balancing culverts or a small bridge. It was
 also indicated the technical feasibility of having a moat around the water
 bodies will be examined. The Greater Chennai Corporation has also Page 36 of 44 given an undertaking that no structures for recreational
 facilities/activities will be placed on the newly developed lake except for
 a walking track and pedestrian lights on the bund taking minimum area
 for that. 70. The above developments and undertakings are accepted and taken on
 record by the Tribunal. In view of the structures already put up by the
 Greater Chennai Corporation in the area handed over to it earlier by the
 CMWSSB, the Tribunal directs the Greater Chennai Corporation to
 undertake either create a new water body with a water spread of 22 Acres
 (twice the area utilized for recreational, walkway, etc.) or deepen two
 existing water bodies to create additional storage capacity of about
 1,50,000 Cu.M. within the Kosasthalaiyar River basin area falling within
 the Greater Chennai Corporation jurisdiction. This work should be
 completed, in consultation with the Water Resources Department within
 a period of 1 ½ years. 71. So under such circumstances, we feel that the application can be disposed
 of as follows:- Konnur Lake for the purpose of getting the area from CMWSSB and
 steps to relocate the encroachers and retrieve the encroached 2.5
 Acres as well and to add these portions with the existing Lake and
 make it big Lake with more water storing capacity to protect the
 water body against future encroachment and pollution. 72. The points are answered accordingly. 73. In the result, the application is allowed in part and disposed of with
 following directions:- (xi) The Interim order passed by this Tribunal to the extent
 mentioned above for the purpose of facilitating the activities of
 CMWSSB and Greater Chennai Corporation are modified
 accordingly. (xii) The Additional Chief Secretary for Municipal Administration
 and Water Supply, Additional Chief Secretary for Environment,
 Climate Change & Forest and the concerned Secretary of the
 Revenue, Public Works Department are also directed to
 coordinate with the respective departments and the Boards for
 the purpose of implementing the directions given by this
 Tribunal to protect the Villivakkam - Konnur Lake against
 future encroachment and pollution and expedite the
 rejuvenation as directed by this Tribunal. (xiii) The Chief Secretary to Government, State of Tamil Nadu is also
 directed to monitor the implementation of the directions given
 by this Tribunal so as to protect the water body namely
 Villivakkam - Konnur Lake for the purpose of getting the area
 from CMWSSB and steps to relocate the encroachers and
 retrieve the encroached 2.5 Acres as well and to add these Page 43 of 44 portions with the existing Lake and make it big Lake with more
 water storing capacity to protect the water body against future
 encroachment and pollution. (xiv) Considering the circumstances, parties are directed to bear their
 respective costs in the application. (xv) The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the Chief
 Secretary to Government, State of Tamil Nadu, the Additional
 Chief Secretary for Municipal Administration and Water
 Supply, Additional Chief Secretary for Environment, Forests
 and Climate Change, Director - Municipal Administration,
 Principal Secretary of Revenue Department, Commissioner -
 Greater Chennai Corporation, Managing Director - Chennai
 Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board and Tamil Nadu
 Pollution Control Board for their information and compliance
 of directions. 74. With the above directions and observations, this Original Application is
 disposed of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, J.M.

 Sd/- Dr. Satyagopal Korlapati, E.M.

O.A. No.50/2017 (SZ)
13th July 2022. SE.