The controversial fact-check amendment , which introduces a government-appointed unit to fact-check government-related information online, does not give the government powers to block information, reveals an affidavit filed by the Indian government in satirist Kunal Kamra’s ongoing challenge against the law before the Bombay High Court.

The specific rule of the IT Rules, 2021, under which the amendment has been brought—Rule 3—only imposes due diligence obligations on intermediaries, which they have to follow to retain safe harbour. On the other hand, the government’s blocking powers are separately held under Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000. So, the unit’s decision would not “have any effect in the nature of direction to block the said information/content as contemplated under Section 69A,” the government argued.

Shared with MediaNama by multiple sources, the affidavit repeatedly claims that the amendment seeks to only protect the public, and indeed India, from the harms of “fake, false, or misleading” information in the digital age.

Petitioners challenging the provision before the Bombay High Court—like Kamra, the Editors Guild of India , and the Association of Indian Magazines —have instead argued that it gives the government unilateral powers to decide the ‘truth’ online and limit the circulation of inconvenient narratives to boot. This critically impacts free speech online in India, especially during a politically charged election year. The government has since promised to stay the amendment’s notification until September 4th.

How does the system work then? The Indian government’s affidavit clarified that under the IT Rules, 2021, intermediaries, or platforms, are first notified by aggrieved citizens that they’re hosting information outlawed under the rules. They can take down the information flagged if they find that the content is indeed unlawful. Or, they can continue hosting the information, rejecting the allegations of its unlawfulness. If the information stays up, the aggrieved person can pursue any legal remedy. In the current circumstances, the court is the final arbiter of the information’s factual correctness. But the intermediary won’t have safe harbour protections at this point, which are held under Section 79 of the IT Act, 2000.

Or, as the government put it, the amendment only triggers the intermediary’s grievance redressal mechanism. It doesn’t venture into forbidding information based on “true sets of facts”.

Article continues below , you might also want to read the petitioner’s other in-court arguments:

The context : In 2015’s Shreya Singhal judgment, the Supreme Court held that intermediaries are required to take down content only upon receiving “actual knowledge” of it – by way of a court or government order. But, the amendment doesn’t explicitly suggest that the fact-checking unit will follow principles of natural justice, such as issuing a notification or order, providing a hearing to the platform, and more.

So, in more ways than one, the amendment travels beyond the powers of Section 79 and the judgement, Kamra argued . During the ongoing hearings at the Bombay High Court, Gautam Bhatia, appearing for the Association of Indian Magazines in its challenge against the amendment, added :

“Our argument turns on the fact that when Shreya Singhal read down Section 79 [the safe harbour clause], it introduced by judicial interpretation the requirements of due diligence, which include notification by a government agency, [following] natural justice, and so on. Because these rules do not comply with what Shreya Singhal said are necessary components of Section 79, they are ultra vires [or beyond the parent law, the IT Act].”

Government says amendment isn’t linked to takedown orders envisaged by Shreya Singhal : However, the government affidavit argued that Kamra’s Shreya Singhal arguments on “ actual knowledge or a notification being issued by Central Government” aren’t relevant to the amendment, as, once again, the unit’s decision isn’t binding on intermediaries, it only triggers the grievance redressal process .

The fact-check unit’s ‘identification’ of fake news is “nothing more than a complaint made by any of the user [sic] of the intermediary’s platform as contemplated under Rule 3(2) of the IT Rules,” the government argued. “The said provision would get applicable in case the identification by the Fact Checking Unit of the Central Government is arbitrarily rejected by the intermediary and the same thereafter being finally adjudicated by a competent court of law in favour of the Central Government and the information is taken down pursuant to the service of the said order of the competent court.”

Fake, false, and misleading information isn’t constitutionally protected, can be restricted on public interest grounds : Such information is communicated with “actual malice”—or, with knowledge of its falseness, and with the intent of deceiving, ‘cheating’, and ‘compelling’ an audience to take ‘wrong actions’. This speech is liable to be constitutionally restricted.

The ground for this intervention is “public interest”. The government leaned heavily on a Supreme Court judgment holding that airways and frequencies are public properties and have to be used for society’s best interests—which means that content propagated through them should be regulated in the “public interest too”.

“…It is unconceivable [sic] to hold that untrue or patently false and misleading information in any way or in any circumstances can be of public interest,” the government argued. “There is a legitimate state interest to regulate such patently false and untrue content in the interests of the general public…any such untrue or patently false and misleading information is liable to be restricted on public interest ground as provided under Article 19(6) of the Constitution of India in addition to the grounds mentioned in Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India…”

Article 19(6) empowers the government to impose ‘reasonable restrictions’ on the right to practice a trade or profession, in the general public interest.

Regulating false speech protects fundamental rights, and doesn’t conflict with them : According to the government, false information not only negatively impacts electoral democracy, the economy, and national security, but also fans separatist movements and weakens public faith in democratic institutions. Such information, when circulated by “anti-social and anti-India” actors, who may operate anonymously online, weakens India’s social, economic, and political fabric. Deepfakes, clickbait, planted stories, and artificial intelligence, among others, can also mislead “crores” across India and globally.

In short, false information adversely and seriously impacts “the enjoyment of fundamental rights by citizens, including the right to life and liberty,” the government argued. “It would be appropriate that a mechanism to address such information be viewed as not being in conflict with the fundamental rights of the Sender, but as being in harmony with the fundamental rights of the Recipient, and in the public interest.”

Government best-positioned to fact-check information on itself says affidavit, while elucidating on what ‘government business’ will be fact checked : For example, citizens may act on false or misleading information relating to the government, even if the government hasn’t announced it. On a separate note, the majority of “common users” producing and consuming news on social media may not have the resources, time, or capabilities to verify information before sharing it.

“In such matters, the relevant facts are authentically and readily available with the Central Government,” the government surmised. “[Given the ‘harm’ of misinformation] It would be in the public interest that such authentic information is readily ascertained and publicly disseminated after fact checking by a notified Government agency so that potential harm to the public at large can be contained… Such information would essentially be information relating to the activities of the Central Government, such as its actions, announcements, decisions, data, schemes, policies etc .”

Citizen, I am your father : “In a Welfare State…the State acts as parens patriae for all the citizens,” the government added. “The Central Government is entrusted with the responsibility of protecting the citizens. Therefore, it is incumbent on the State to undertake measures to preserve public order and safeguard national security.”

Parens patriae is the Latin for the country or homeland’s parent—in practice, it’s when a “a state or court has a paternal and protective role over its citizens or others subject to its jurisdiction”. An example of the government’s paternalism here:

“…The person who takes decisions or actions on the basis of untrue or patently false information/content received by him/her then becomes the victim of the consequences of his own decisions and actions…If the said information/content received by the citizen is based on true sets of fact, then the recipient citizen takes correct decisions and actions in his/her societal or political discourse or in his/her civil and criminal law obligations…”

The amendment doesn’t impact satire, criticism, or ‘roasting’—but does the government approve of satire? The amendment neither prohibits nor proscribes all forms of satire—with the government adding that satire is a permissible and constitutionally protected form of speech and something that it encourages. In the same breath, the government argued that satire should come with a disclaimer, and not be passed off as ‘facts’, such as those reported on by news outlets.

“Any such figure of speech [satire] cannot be restrained under the impugned rules, unless, the said speech is based on patently false/untrue bundle of facts or misleading information/content and is communicated with “actual malice”, i.e., with knowledge of its falsehood or with reckless disregard for the truth and is sought to be deceptively passed off as a ‘statement of true and correct fact/state of affairs’,” the affidavit says. “Even though it may have an element of dramatization and falsity…[satire] does not amount to a patently false or untrue fact requiring its censure under Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India.”

But, the fact check unit may flag satire on government ‘business’ : Satire that includes a ‘disclaimer’ on its ‘truth’ isn’t affected by the rule either, the government clarified. However, if the satire is based on government-related ‘business’, the fact check unit may identify the information as false, fake or misleading. After that, it’s up to intermediaries to decide whether to take down the content—and to do so, keeping in mind their recent obligations to protect Indians’ fundamental rights, including their rights to speech and liberty.

Kamra’s work hasn’t actually been impacted by the rule : The amendment hasn’t been used to restrain Kamra’s satirical shows, or anyone else’s for that matter. The government also hasn’t generally censured or restrained Kamra’s ‘commercial speech’, or his satirical shows that he earns money from. “The assumption of the petitioner that the impugned rules would abrogate or impinge upon his commercial speech…is without any foundation and is based on his conjecture and assumptions,” the government testily observed.

You (apparently) can’t fault the government’s pre-existing fact check unit : There are no public grievances lodged against the current fact check unit run by the Press Information Bureau, nor have any court cases been filed against its decisions on government-related information, the government claimed, adding that this was evidence of its “quality”. Each piece of information is also cross-checked multiple times by the unit. This includes using “technological tools for identifying messages, images and videos recirculated in a different context. The information/content is also verified by the Ministries, Departments and Government organisations concerned.”

Government offers some insight into how information may be fact-checked : The PIB also fact-checks information on national security, public order and interest, elections, and the judiciary, according to the following categories :

Kamra’s past comments on the judiciary, among other things, indicate he’s a “propagator of anarchy” : Kamra’s tweets on the Supreme Court and its justices (affixed in much detail to the affidavit) indicate his contempt towards the judiciary, the government alleged:

“…The Petitioner herein has scant regard for judiciary and the judicial process of the country,” the government claimed. “The Petitioner who is a propagator of anarchy and appears to be an archaist [sic] himself thus deserves no relief from this Hon’ble Court.”

Intermediaries should be challenging the amendment—not users like Kamra, who are ‘arrogating’ their grounds : Kamra’s petition doesn’t suggest that intermediaries have been affected by the amendment—and intermediaries haven’t separately approached the courts about it either. A creator or sender of information against whom no action has been taken under the amendment, like Kamra, doesn’t have the grounds to challenge it. A challenge in this case “exclusively” lies with the intermediaries who are bound by the amendment’s obligations. Or, as the government put it:

“…The petitioner…has hijacked and arrogated the locus of an intermediary by filing the present petition…It is evident that either the Petitioner is acting as a surrogate on behalf of an undisclosed intermediary, who behind the veil of anonymity is seeking to wriggle out of its obligation under the impugned rule, or the Petitioner is acting as a busy body and meddlesome interloper by trying to assume the locus of an intermediary to challenge the impugned rule for some collateral purpose …”

Kamra’s challenge lacks “cause of action” and is based on “completely vague and conjectural consequences” he conceived and perceived : The government argued that the amendment did not affect his free speech rights, or his rights to carry out his profession, making Kamra’s challenge liable to be dismissed. On top of that, Kamra allegedly didn’t provide the court with evidence of amendment-related incidents harming or injuring his rights. “It is well-settled that validity of any statute or delegated piece of legislation cannot be decided in vacuum,” the government argued. “It can only be challenged when the impugned provisions are implemented, and in the process, gives rise to any civil or evil consequences to the Petitioner.

Read more:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event