A total of Rs 936 crore has been seized by the Directorate of Enforcement as proceeds of crime while investigating several cases related to cryptocurrency frauds, according to a response tabled in the Lok Sabha by Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary.

Interestingly, the government’s response to a similar question in December 2022 had revealed that total seizures amounted to Rs 907 crore then so there have been new seizures in the last two months.

The minister added that a few crypto exchanges were found to have been involved in money laundering following which action was taken as per provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA).

The reply revealed that five people have been arrested and six prosecution complaints (PCs) have been filed before the Special Court (PMLA) as well.

The minister was responding to a question asked by the following parliamentarians on the regulation of virtual digital assets—

Why it matters: It is important to note the response of the government as it offers insight into the state’s regulatory oversight over the crypto sector in India. It reassures investors that the government is keeping a tight leash on the criminal elements in the crypto industry.

What else do we know: The response also added that assets amounting to Rs 289.28 crore have been seized under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) beside a show cause notice to Zanmai Labs Pvt Ltd, which runs a crypto exchange—WazirX. The notice concerns transactions involving cryptocurrencies worth Rs 2790 crore.

Need concerted effort globally: “Crypto Assets are…borderless and require international collaboration to prevent regulatory arbitrage. Therefore, any legislation for regulation or for banning can be effective only with significant international collaboration on evaluation of the risks and benefits and evolution of common taxonomy and standards,” read the response .

Overview of WazirX’s show cause notice: The Enforcement Directorate had issued a show cause notice to WazirX in June 2022, following an investigation into Chinese-owned illegal betting applications. The notice was issued to WazirX CEO Nischal Shetty and Co-founder Sameer Mhatre.

ED’s investigations: The agency has been investigating various frauds related to sketchy apps which use cryptocurrencies to launder their proceeds. It froze 150 bitcoins in wallets listed on the Binance crypto exchange following a search operation in November 2022. These bitcoins were worth nearly Rs 23 crore and belonged to people who ran a mobile gaming application—E-nuggets— which is under the ED scanner.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event