SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: ICICI Bank asking to pay for card payment for year 2008 - card that I never had!
DATE: 2019-10-22
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dlg9xq/icici_bank_asking_to_pay_for_card_payment_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I am getting call (got call twice in 2 days) from someone saying they are calling from ICICI bank and saying that my CIBIL record is showing 2500Rs due for some credit card in **Year 2008!**

The person gave me my correct address. But thing is I never took the card in 2008 OR never received the card and never used ANYONE's card either. Infact in 2008, I did not even know how to use a credit card.

I recall faintly that very very long back (dont remember the year) I had seen credit card charges in my bank statement but I had complained it to bank saying that I never applied for the card and bank said that it was AMC charge and they had waived it off too. And such charges never came in my statement afterwards.

After few years I even closed my bank account. That time too bank did not ask for any dues either.

 In past 11 years - I never ever got any letter or email or SMS saying that I have to pay 2500Rs. And suddenly I am getting this call.

The guy does not sound to be fraud because he has not threatened me yet to pay. But he asked me to come and meet him some ICICI office (which is not my bank branch) but in any case I am not going there.

I told him that you have my address. Just send me written letter explaining the issue and I will visit nearby ICICI bank and do whatever I can.

But he said he wont send letter but send an email..and asked me to give my email address.. Since I had no way to verify authenticity of that person, I did not give my email address. And told him to send a letter and dont call me again without sending letter and hung up the phone.

So anyone else getting similar call? What action can I take if they continue to call me like this?

I probably dont even have any record of that bank statement.

What if someone got card in my name in 2008 to buy something without my knowledge? How can bank call after a decade WITHOUT ever sending me any intimation to pay?

Anyone has any advice on how to handle this?

Thanks in advance.

TLDR;
Someone called saying thats its from ICICI bank and asked me to pay some 2500Rs credit card charges for year 2008, shown in CIBIL. I have no clue about card and charges. I never ever got any payment due reminder in 11 years. Now I am looking for solution just incase that guy isnt fraud but somehow their record shows wrong payment due.