X (formerly Twitter) has filed a lawsuit challenging a New York bill that requires social media platforms to disclose their content moderation policies or face financial penalties. According to X, Senate Bill S895B—also known as the “Stop Hiding Hate Act”—violates the First Amendment-protected editorial judgments of companies to remove, demonetize, or deprioritize highly sensitive and controversial speech on their platforms.

X further argues that the law infringes on the immunity granted to “internet or interactive computer services” under Section 230 of Title 47 of the U.S. Code, which protects platforms from liability when they take action to restrict access to obscene, lewd, lascivious, or otherwise objectionable content.

The platform is seeking an injunction to block the bill’s provisions. It also seeks a declaration that the bill violates the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution and that the civil penalties listed are null and void.

The bill’s sponsors cited findings from a report stating that 58% of marginalized respondents had experienced hate-based harassment online, particularly among members of the LGBTQIA+ community. Despite this, social media platforms have failed to tackle hate speech effectively, lack clear enforcement policies, and provide inaccurate transparency metrics, the sponsors argue. Accordingly, the bill includes the following provisions:

Disclosing terms of service: Social media platforms must publicly post their terms of service, including a description of their content reporting process, potential countermeasures (e.g., user bans or content removal), and contact information.

Terms of service report: Platforms should submit a semiannual ‘Terms of Service’ report to the state’s Attorney General, who would publicly display the same on their website. The report would incorporate several metrics:

Financial penalties: Platforms may face fines of up to $15,000 per violation per day, as well as potential lawsuits for non-compliance.

Overall, X claims the bill compels social media platforms to regulate constitutionally-protected content found objectionable by the state. It further deems social media content moderation a “controversial undertaking”, arguing that this question spurs considerable debate among the public. However, the platform refuses any government role in the process.

“However imperfect the private marketplace of ideas,’ a ‘worse proposal,”—as here—is ‘the government itself deciding when speech [is] imbalanced, and then coercing speakers to provide more of some views or less of others’”, the petition added, referencing a previous judgment.

In response to X’s lawsuit, the bill’s sponsor, Brad Hoylman-Sigal and New York Assembly Member Grace Lee reaffirmed their support for the proposal. They contend that the proposal doesn’t violate the First Amendment rights of social media companies, but instead focuses on mandating disclosures to enable consumers to make better choices over the platforms they engage with.

Sigal and Lee also referenced the rise in political violence and threats arising from the spread of hate speech and disinformation by US President Trump and Elon Musk. Accordingly, they remained optimistic that the Court would reject X’s legal challenge.

In its suit, X also draws parallels between the New York proposal and a California bill challenged by the platform. In September 2024, X won an appeal to block parts of California’s content moderation law after the Court observed that the requirement for social media platforms to submit a “content category report” infringes the First Amendment of the US Constitution.

Meanwhile, a Texas social media law also faced a partial injunction after a US Federal Court ruled that mandating content moderation could threaten free speech online. In their case, tech industry groups challenging the law argued that it could impede social media access for minors.

The lawsuit comes amid rising concerns over hate speech on X following Elon Musk’s acquisition of the platform in October 2022. A study from January 2022 to June 2023 reported:

In August 2024, the EU Commissioner also cautioned Musk against amplifying content promoting hatred, disorder, or violence. The warning followed a formal probe by the EC for X allegedly violating the Digital Services Act (DSA) 2022 and thereby displaying a lack of accountability in content moderation.

Later, X, in conjunction with other tech platforms like Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, and TikTok, signed a voluntary commitment to curb illegal hate speech online as defined by the DSA. Regardless, Musk and X frequently make headlines for propagating disinformation , election misinformation , and other sensitive speech. However, against his claims of being a “free speech absolutist”, Musk and X have been instrumental in arbitrary account suspensions on the platform and opaque censorship.

As both sides remain confident in their positions, the Court’s ruling could have a profound impact on how social media platforms handle sensitive content and interact with government regulations in the future.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event