SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Hathway is harrasing me. Need some perspective/Help please.
DATE: 2019-05-09
SCORE: 19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/bmgqoh/hathway_is_harrasing_me_need_some_perspectivehelp/

--- POST TEXT ---

Indians of Reddit.Hello. I'll get right to it. I used to live in New Delhi a year ago and had hathway internet connection. When I left Delhi, the account had already expired as it was a prepaid plan. I might have called them 3-4 times before leaving the city, to ask them to close the account and take their device. Now a year later, they e-mailed me via some "Legal Associates" giving me a "Legal Notice" about an outstanding amount (They mention it is \~Rs 950). If I fail to pay the amount, they would initiate court proceedings against me. Other than that, Hathway has been pestering me constantly via email about their router device, to which I have already replied them to come and collect it, which they haven't.

Now here is my perspective. 1. The account was prepaid, the plan period was over, so there is no question of outstanding bill amount. There were no hidden charges or contract, I was dilligent about those things.

2. Which company goes to court for Rs 950, considering the judicial system in India. To me this email seemed to be some sort of Scare/Coercion tactics so that I pay them the money without any hassle. Sort of Phishing with extra steps.

3. As of now, hathway does not have anything other than my email id. NO cell no, no address. And I'm glad for that. What bugs me though, is that if I try to contact customer care with this, I know how these guys are trained to not accept a single gram of responsibility to resolve the issue, so I'm really skeptical about whether should I call them or not.

4. IF I wait and respond nothing, and were they to initiate court proceedings against me, how should I handle this ?

5. Is there a consumer rights forum where I can escalate this issue, if need be ?

I apologise for this long winded post, but I need some perspective on it, since this made me really upset for a day. Though now I want to look at it objectively, and I need your help doing it.

I can upload the mail they sent me, if any of you need to look at it.

EDIT : I'm relatively new here, &amp; I found out there is r/legaladviceindia, if you think this better belongs there let me know.