a) Date of commission of the offence : 07.02.2014 b) Name of the complainant : Ms. Sameena c) Name of the accused and his parentage : 1. Rahul Sethi @ Gullu,
 S/o Shri Prem Kumar,
 R/o RZ-21N, Gali No. 2, near
 Deepawali Chowk, Dabri Extension,
 Delhi. 2. Aakash Kumar,
 S/o Shri Sunil Kumar,
 R/o RZ-38/1/345, Mohan Nagar,
 Pankha Road, New Delhi. Succinctly stated facts of the prosecution case are that on 7 February 2014 at about
01:45 p.m., while the complainant Sameena along with her mother Smt. Hazra was
returning from hospital, two persons came on a motorbike and snatched her gold
chain. With regard to the aforesaid incident, a DD Entry No. 25 PP was recorded at
police station Hari Nagar and the same was assigned to ASI Amar Singh for
necessary action. On receipt of the said DD Entry, he went to the spot and recorded
the statement of the complainant Smt. Sameena, on the basis whereof, present
FIR/Ex. PW2/B was registered against unknown persons 379/356/411/34 IPC . On 12 March 2014, IO arrested accused Rahul Sethi @ Gullu in case FIR number
281/2014 wherein he suffered disclosure statement regarding his involvement in the
present case. Consequently, he was arrested by the IO in the present case and
obtained his one day police custody remand from the learned Magistrate. During
police custody remand, accused Rahul Sethi got arrested co-accused Aakash Kumar
from his house and the stolen case property i.e the chain was also recovered from his
hosue. Consequently, he was also arrested by the IO in the present case and an
application was moved for holding Test Identification Parade (TIP) of the accused
persons but they declined to participate in the TIP proceedings. After completion of the investigation, charge-sheet under sections 379 / 356 / 411 / 34 IPC was filed before the court. Consequently, accused persons were summoned to
face the trial. On their appearance, in the Court, copies of documents, relied upon by
the prosecution, were supplied to them as per norms. Thereafter, charge under sections 379 / 356 / 34 IPC was framed against both the
accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. In addition, a
charge under section 411 IPC was also framed against accused Rahul Sethi to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. With a view to connect the accused persons with the crime, the prosecution has
examined only three witnesses, however, it did not include the complainant and her
mother. PW1/Constable Jagjeet Singh had accompanied the IO during investigation. PW2/W/HC Celestina was the Duty Officer, who had recorded the FIR/Ex.PW2/B.

PW3/ASI Amar Singh was the IO of the case. Since the entire edifice of the prosecution was the statement of complainant and her
mother, they were summoned to testify about the incident. They could not be
examined by the prosecution despite availing numerous opportunities. Even their
presence could not be secured through the office of concerned DCP. Therefore,
considering the report submitted by the office worthy DCP, they were dropped from
the list of witness and PE was closed and request of the learned APP for State to
examine all the prosecution witnesses was declined as no useful purpose would be
served by examining the rest of the witnesses, who are formal in nature. In this regard
reference may be made to a Division Bench judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court passed in the case of Govind & Ors vs. The State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi )
104(2003) DLT 510 wherein it was held that

 "...In cases where ultimate chance of conviction is very bleak or
 there is no prospect of the case ending in conviction in such
 cases no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a
 criminal prosecution and trial to continue. It is advisable to
 truncate or snip the proceedings and save valuable time of the
 courts. The trial should not be continued only for the purpose of
 formally completing the proceedings to pronounce the
 conclusion on a future date..........." Since there was no incriminating circumstance against the accused persons, recording
of their statements under section 313 of the Code was also dispensed with. I have heard the rival submissions advanced by the learned APP for State and the
learned counsel for the accused and have also perused the records very carefully. Arguments

It is submitted by the learned counsel for the accused persons that the accused
persons are charged for the offences punishable under sections 379 / 356 / 411 / 34 IPC
but the prosecution has failed to examine the complainant and her mother despite
availing numerous opportunities and in the absence of the testimony of
complainant/victim and her mother, there is nothing on record to establish that
alleged offence was committed by accused persons. He, therefore, requested that the
accused persons may be acquitted of the charge leveled against them. Decision and brief reasons for the same

The prosecution has a duty to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. There is no
duty on an accused person to purge himself of guilt. Where there is a lingering doubt,
the accused person is given the benefit of the doubt. A Court cannot draw an
inference of guilt from mere suspicion. Suspicion, no matter how strong cannot take the place of legal proof. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Sujit Biswas vs. State of Assam decided on 28th May, 2013 held as under:- The large distance between `may be' true and `must be' true,

 4 of 15 State Vs. Rahul Sethi & Anr. FIR No. 128/14

 must be covered by way of clear, cogent and unimpeachable
 evidence produced by the prosecution, before an accused is
 condemned as a convict, and the basic and golden rule must be
 applied. In such cases, while keeping in mind the distance
 between `may be' true and `must be' true, the court must
 maintain the vital distance between mere conjectures and sure
 conclusions to be arrived at, on the touchstone of dispassionate
 judicial scrutiny, based upon a complete and comprehensive
 appreciation of all features of the case, as well as the quality
 and credibility of the evidence brought on record. The court
 must ensure, that miscarriage of justice is avoided, and if the
 facts and circumstances of a case so demand, then the benefit of
 doubt must be given to the accused, keeping in mind that a
 reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or a merely
 probable doubt, but a fair doubt that is based upon reason and
 common sense. (Vide: Hanumant Govind Nargundkar & Anr. v.
 State of M.P., AIR 1952 SC 343; State through CBI v. Mahender
 Singh Dahiya , AIR 2011 SC 1017; and Ramesh Harijan v. State
 of U.P. , AIR 2012 SC 1979). Now let us examine, if the prosecution has been able to prove the charge against the
accused persons. Section 356 IPC Section 356 IPC provides for punishment for assault or criminal force in attempt to
commit theft of property carried by a person. It reads as under:- It was submitted by the learned APP for the State that accused persons had refused to
participate in the test identification parade without any justifiable reason. Therefore,
the court should take an adverse inference against them. Per contra, it was submitted by the learned defence counsel that TIP is not a

 5 of 15 State Vs. Rahul Sethi & Anr. FIR No. 128/14

substantive piece of evidence yet it can only be used to corroborate the dock
identification. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Vijay @ Chinee vs State of M.P decided on 27 July 2010 while dealing with the evidentiary value of TIP, held as
under:- 18. In Mulla & Anr. Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2010) 3 SCC
 508, this court (one of us, Hon'ble P. Sathasivam, J.) placed re-
 liance on Matru@Girish Chandra Vs. The State of Uttar
 Pradesh AIR 1971 SC 1050; and Santokh Singh Vs. Izhar Hus- sain & Anr. AIR 1973 SC 2190, wherein it had been held that the
 Tests Identification Parades do not constitute substantive evi-
 dence. They are primarily meant for the purpose of providing
 the investigating agency with an assurance that their progress
 with the investigation into the offence is proceeding on right
 lines. The Test Identification Parade can only be used as corrob-
 oration of the statement in Court. The necessity for holding the
 Test Identification Parade can arise only when the accused per-
 sons are not previously known to the witnesses. The test is done
 to check the veracity of the witnesses. The court further ob-
 served as under :- 19. Thus, it is evident from the above, that the Test Identification
 is a part of the investigation and is very useful in a case where
 the accused are not known before hand to the witnesses. It is
 used only to corroborate the evidence recorded in the court.
 Therefore, it is not substantive evidence. The actual evidence is
 what is given by the witnesses in the court." In view of the above judgment, the submission of the learned APP for the State is
liable to be rejected. In every criminal trial, the identity of the malefactor must be established by proof
beyond reasonable doubt. Indeed, the first duty of the Prosecution is not to prove the
crime but to prove the identity of the offender, for even if the commission of the
crime can be established, there can be no conviction without proof of identity of the
offender beyond reasonable doubt. Onus is, thus, on the prosecution to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the person
facing the trial is, in fact, the same person who committed the offence. The present FIR was lodged on 7 February 2014 against un-known persons. Accused
persons were implicated on the basis of their alleged disclosure statements given to
the Investigating Officer during the course of investigation and on their refusal to
participate in the Test Identification Parade. Thus, it was for the prosecution to prove that they were the same persons who had
snatched the gold chain of complainant Ms. Sameena. Complainant and her mother
namely Ms. Hajra, who was cited as an eye witness to the occurrence, alone could

 7 of 15 State Vs. Rahul Sethi & Anr. FIR No. 128/14

have testified about the incident and could have identified the accused persons as the
snatchers/wrongdoers. However, they were not produced and examined as
prosecution witnesses. Thus, the best evidence for establishing the identity of the
snatchers and stolen property not produced. Rest of the witnesses are formal in nature and the identity of the accused persons
cannot be established from their testimonies, inasmuch as, the alleged snatching/theft
was neither committed in their presence nor it is the case of the prosecution. In the case in hand, as the accused persons were not apprehended from the spot, their
identity was in issue. However, both the eye-witnesses could not be examined by the
prosecution despite availing numerous opportunities. Even their presence could not
be secured through the office of worthy DCP. Thus, identity of the accused persons could not be established beyond reasonable
doubt. In the absence of proof beyond reasonable doubt as to the identity of the
culprit, the accused's constitutional right to be presumed innocent until the contrary is
proved is not overcome, and he is entitled to an acquittal, though his innocence may
be doubted. The constitutional presumption of innocence guaranteed to every
individual is of primary importance, and the conviction of the accused must rest not
on the weakness of the defence he put up but on the strength of the evidence for the
Prosecution. Section 379 / 411 / 34 IPC

It is submitted by the learned defence counsel that the accused persons have also been
charged for the offences punishable under sections 379 / 411 / 34 IPC but the
prosecution has failed to produce the complainant and her mother for their
examination and the alleged stolen/recovered property despite availing numerous
opportunities and in the absence of the testimony of complainant and her mother,
there is nothing on record to connect the accused persons with the offences charged

 8 of 15 State Vs. Rahul Sethi & Anr. FIR No. 128/14

with. He placed reliance on a judgment passed by a Division Bench of Hon'ble High Court
of Delhi in the case of State (Delhi Adminsitration) vs. Ravinder Kumar @ Ravi
1995II AD (Delhi) 6 wherein it was held as under:- He submitted that in the present case also the best evidence i.e. the complainant, her
mother and the stolen chain were not produced before the court. He, therefore,
requested that the accused persons may be acquitted of the charge leveled against
them. Per contra, it was argued by the learned APP for the State that accused Rahul Sethi
was found in possession of a stolen property i.e., the gold chain and if a person is
found in possession of property recently stolen, and of which he can give no reasonable
account, court can presume that he is a thief. According to the learned APP for the State recent unexplained possession alone may be
sufficient to raise a permissible inference of guilt. Issue 1. Whether the accused persons had committed theft of chain belonging to the
complainant? 2. Whether the accused Rahul Sethi received this stolen property i.e. gold chain
"knowing or having reason to believe the some to be stolen property"? To bring home the guilt of the accused persons, prosecution has cited as many as nine

 9 of 15 State Vs. Rahul Sethi & Anr. FIR No. 128/14

witnesses in the list of witnesses annexed with the charge-sheet. Out of these nine
witnesses, Ms. Sameena was the complainant while her mother Ms. Hazira was cited
as an eye witness to the occurrence. Rest witnesses are formal in nature and guilt of
the accused cannot be proved from their testimonies. It is the case of the prosecution that the complainant Ms. Sameena lodged a complaint
regarding theft of her chain while she was returning from hospital along with her
mother. However, the said witnesses are not traceable as per the report submitted by
the worthy DCP. Now, I will take up the issues one by one. Issue No.1

It was argued on behalf of the State that if a person is found in possession of property
recently stolen, and of which he can give no reasonable account, court can presume that
he is a thief. According to the learned APP for the State recent unexplained possession alone may be
sufficient to raise a permissible inference of guilt. He further submitted that Duty Officer has proved the factum of registration of the FIR,
therefore, theft of the chain is proved. Per contra, it was argued on behalf of the accused that presumption under the
aforesaid section does not arise unless ownership of articles, theft and recent
possession are established by the prosecution. He submitted that before a
presumption under section 114 , Illustration (a) Indian Evidence Act can arise, it must
be proved that the goods found in possession of the accused have been stolen. The
onus of proof regarding these aspects never shifts, it lies on the prosecution. He submitted that since the ownership and theft of the gold chain have not been
proved by the prosecution, the presumption under illustration (a) to section 114 of the
Evidence Act is not available. Now, I will deal with the issue whether a presumption should be drawn under
illustration (a) of section 114 Evidence Act? For deciding this issue, it would be advantageous to refer section 378 and 379 IPC. Section 378 IPC defines theft. It reads as under:- Explanation 1.--A thing so long as it is attached to the earth, not
 being movable property, is not the subject of theft; but it becomes
 capable of being the subject of theft as soon as it is severed from
 the earth. Explanation 2.--A moving effected by the same act which affects
 the severance may be a theft. Explanation 3.--A person is said to cause a thing to move by
 removing an obstacle which prevented it from moving or by sepa-
 rating it from any other thing, as well as by actually moving it. Explanation 4.--A person, who by any means causes an animal to
 move, is said to move that animal, and to move everything which,
 in consequence of the motion so caused, is moved by that animal. Explanation 5.--The consent mentioned in the definition may be
 express or implied, and may be given either by the person in
 possession, or by any person having for that purpose authority
 either express or implied. Section 379 IPC provides for punishment for theft. It reads as under:- ished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
 may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. Let us see if prosecution has been able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that theft
was committed and the gold chain was stolen from the possession of the
complainant? For establishing the ingredients of the offence for theft under section 379 IPC, the
prosecution must prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had dishonestly
moved the chain of the complainant from her possession without her consent. However, despite availing numerous opportunities, prosecution has neither examined
the complainant nor produced the case property during the course of trial. Thus, nothing has come on record to prove that the accused persons had dishonestly
taken away the gold chain out of the possession of complainant Ms. Sameena without
her consent. As far as presumption under section 114 of the Act is concerned, I am of the
considered opinion that the presumption permitted by section 114 of the Act does not
arise until the prosecution has established two facts; namely, the ownership of the
articles in question and the theft of that article. However, in the case in hand, the prosecution has miserably failed to prove that the
gold chain was missing from the custody of complainant. Thus, neither the ownership
of the gold chain nor its theft was established. No doubt, the prosecution has proved registration of the FIR but the question still is
whether accused persons have committed any offence whatsoever. I am of the considered opinion that, once the first informant is not examined, even if
the First Information Report is proved and exhibited, all that can be read from it is the
fact that FIR was in fact recorded at the date and time mentioned therein but the
contents of the FIR cannot be used to hold the accused guilty of the charge. Since the complainant and her mother could not be examined despite giving
numerous opportunities, nothing could come out on the record to prove the incident
or the necessary ingredients of the offence punishable under section 379 IPC. In the
absence of any eye witness account as to how the incident has taken pace, accused
persons be cannot fastened with any criminal liability as there is no direct evidence to
connect them with the crime of committing theft. Issue no. 2

Before I advert to rival submissions made by the learned APP for the State and the
learned defence counsel, I again propose to refer to certain relevant provisions of IPC . Section 411 IPC reads as under: 13 of 15 State Vs. Rahul Sethi & Anr. FIR No. 128/14

that a theft was committed and that soon after it was committed, the stolen property
was recovered from the possession of the accused, presumption can be raised under section 114 , Illustration (a) of the Indian Evidence Act that the accused is either the
thief or the receiver of the property knowing it to be stolen. Illustration (a) of section 114 , Evidence Act runs as follows: Thus, in order to make out an offence under section 411 IPC, the prosecution is
required to establish that the property in question is a stolen property. It is elementary that there can be no offence of dishonestly receiving stolen property
unless the property which is alleged to be the subject of such receiving, answers the
description of "stolen property" defined under section 410 IPC. To prove its case, prosecution has cited as many as nine witnesses. However, the first
informant/rightful owner of the property is not examined by the prosecution.
Therefore, in the absence of testimony of complainant, the recovery of the stolen
article alleged to have been made at the instance of the accused Rahul Sethi does not
connect him with the crime as no evidence is adduced by the prosecution to show that
the gold chain had, in fact, been stolen from the possession of the complainant or that
the same belonged to her. The factum of theft could have been proved only by the
complainant and her mother. They could not be examined in Court by the
prosecution despite giving numerous opportunities. Even their presence could not be
secured throught the ofice of DCP. Further, the case property i.e. the gold chain was
also not produced before the court at any point of time. Therefore, I am of the
considered opinion that prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused
beyond reasonable doubt. The theft of the gold chain itself has not been proved due to non-examination of
complainant. Obviously in such a scenario the gold chain allegedly recovered from
the possession of accused Rahul Sethi is not proved to be a stolen property as defined
under section 410 IPC. Until and unless the case property is proved to be stolen
property which is a basic requirement, offence punishable under section 411 IPC is
also not made out. Result

In view of the above discussion, I am of the considered view that the prosecution has
miserably failed to discharge the burden imposed on it by law of satisfying this court
beyond reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused persons. Consequently, accused
persons namely Rahul Sethi and Aakash Kumar are acquitted of the charges levelled
against them. File be consigned to record room after due compliance. Announced in open
Court on 22nd day of January, 2020

 `(Babita Puniya)
 MM-06, West District,
 Tis Hazari Courts/ Delhi/22.01.2020

This judgment contains 15 pages and each page bears my signature. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the accused that continuance of
the prosecution as against the accused would not serve any useful purpose and would
be a sheer waste of time as the complainant and her mother have already been
dropped from the list of witness and rest witnesses are formal in nature. He, therefore, requested that PE may be closed and the accused persons
may be acquitted of the charge leveled against them as nothing incriminating has
come on record against them. Per contra, it is submitted by the learned APP for the State that
opportunity may be given to the State to examine all the witnesses. I have heard the learned APP for the State and the learned defence
counsel. I have also perused the file very carefully. The prosecution has cited as many as nine (9) witnesses in the list of
witnesses annexed with the charge-sheet. Out of these nine witnesses, Ms. Samina
and Hajira Begum were cited as eye witnesses. Rest witnesses are formal in nature. PW3 Sameena and Hajra could not examined by the prosecution despite
numerous opportunities. Therefore, I am of the considered opinion that no useful
purpose would be served by examining the rest of the witnesses, who are formal in
nature. No prejudice will be caused to the prosecution if the evidence is closed as
there are no chances of successful prosecution in view of paucity of evidence to
prove the charges. Therefore, in view of the above, PE stands closed and request of the
learned APP for the State to examine remaining witnesses is declined. In this regard
reference may be made to a Division Bench judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High

 16 of 15
 State Vs. Rahul Sethi & Anr. FIR No. 128/14

Court passed in the case of Govind & Ors vs. The State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi )
104(2003) DLT 510 wherein it was held as under: As no incriminating evidence has come on record against the accused
persons, recording of their statements under section 313 of the Code is also dispensed
with. Final arguments heard. File perused. Vide separate judgment of even date, accused persons namely RAHUL
SETHI and AKASH KUMAR are acquitted of the charge leveled against them. Bail bond under section 437-A of the Code furnished by accused Rahul
Sethi. Perused and accepted. At request of accused Akash Kumar, his previous bail
bond is considered u/s 437-A Cr.P.C. File be consigned to record room after due compliance. (Babita Puniya)
 MM-06, West District,
 Tis Hazari Courts/ Delhi/22.01.2020

 17 of 15