and Services Tax Act, 2017 (for short ' CGST Act ') can be
 determined without initiating any adjudication process either
 u/s 73 or 74 of the CGST Act in the event of an assesse raising
 dispute towards liability of interest? (ii) Whether recovery proceedings u/s 79 of the CGST Act can be
 initiated for recovery of interest u/s 50 of the said Act without
 initiation and completion of the adjudication proceedings under
 the Act? 2. The facts of the present writ application lie in a very narrow compass.
 The petitioner, being a partnership firm, was registered under the provisions
 of the CGST Act . Under Section 39 of the CGST Act, provisions have been
 incorporated for furnishing of monthly return by a registered person on or
 before 20th day of the month succeeding such calendar month in which 2 returns were to be filed. Said returns are known as 'GSTR-3 Return'.
However, it is an admitted fact that due to the Nationwide problem in GSTN
Portal, said GSTR-3 Return, which is an auto populated return on the basis
of details of inward and outward supply, is not being generated, due to
which, by way of stop-gap arrangement, provisions have been incorporated
for filing GSTR-3B Return in terms of Rule 61(5) read with Rule 61(6) of
the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017 (for short 'CGST Rules'). 3. Further, under Section 39(7) of the CGST Act, it is provided, inter
alia, that a registered person, who is required to furnish his return under sub-
section (1) of Section 39 , would be liable to pay to the Government the tax
due as per such return not later than the last date on which the dealer is
required to furnish such return. A conjoint reading of Section 39(1) read
with Section 39(7) of the CGST Act would reveal that a dealer was liable to
pay tax within 20th day of the succeeding month for which said dealer was
liable to file GSTR-3 Return. However, since the very onset of
implementation of GST regime, filing of monthly return u/s 39 , being
GSTR-3, was suspended and continues to be suspended till today, and,
return in GSTR-3B is required to be filed by registered person. 4. From time to time, due date for filing such return in GSTR-3B has
been extended by respondent-Authorities. 5. It is the case of the petitioner that in GSTN Portal, due date for filing
of GSTR 3B Return for the month of February, 2018 and March, 2018 was
reflecting as 31st March 2019 and the petitioner reasonably believed that due
date of filing of GSTR-3B Return for the months of February and March,
2018 has been extended up to 31st March, 2019 and in the said background,
the petitioner filed its monthly return for the month of February, 2018 and
March, 2018 within the due date as reflected in GSTN Portal, as would be
evident from Annexure-4 of the writ application. The petitioner was served
with a letter dated 8th March, 2019 issued by Superintendent of Goods and
Services Tax and Central Excise (Respondent No.3) directing the petitioner
to make payment of interest amounting to Rs.19,59,721/- on the ground of
delay in filing of GSTR-3B Return for the months of February and March,
2018. The said letter contained in Annexure-7 is impugned in the present 3 writ application. The respondent-Authorities further exercised powers under Section 79 of the CGST Act by initiating garnishee proceedings for recovery
of aforesaid amount of interest by issuing notice to the petitioner's Banker.
Said initiation of garnishee proceedings under Section 79 of the CGST Act
is also impugned in the present writ application. 6. Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has
vehemently submitted that the impugned letter dated 08.03.2019 issued by
respondent No.3 demanding interest amount of Rs.19,59,721/- on the alleged
ground of delay in submitting GSTR-3B Return for the months of February
and March, 2018, is not sustainable in the eyes of law, as the said amount of
interest has been determined without initiating any adjudication process
under Sections 73 or 74 of the CGST Act . It is the specific case of the
petitioner that the petitioner is not liable to pay interest as there has been no
delay on its part in furnishing of GSTR-3B Return and, consequentially,
there is no delay on its part in depositing the tax with the respondent-
Authority, as in GSTN Portal, due date for furnishing of return for the
months of February and March, 2018 was shown as 31st March, 2019. 7. It has been further argued by Mr. Gadodia that if the amount of
interest is not admitted by an assesse, the same requires determination
through an adjudication process to be initiated as per the detailed provisions
contained under Section 73 of the CGST Act. 8. It has been further submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner
that not only that respondent-Authorities, without initiating adjudication
process, have straightaway demanded interest from the petitioner, but they
have, in a most arbitrary and illegal manner, by adopting extra legal steps,
initiated garnishee proceedings under Section 79 of the CGST Act for
recovery of the amount of interest. It has been contended that provisions of Section 79 of the CGST Act can be adopted only when "any amount payable
by a person to the Government under the provisions of the Act and the Rules
is not paid". It has been submitted that the words "any amount payable" is to
be interpreted in the context in which it has been used and the amount
payable (unless admitted) can only be determined by initiating adjudication
process as provided under Section 73 or 74 of the CGST Act . It is the 4 specific case of the petitioner that since the petitioner has not admitted its
liability of interest, the said interest liability to be classified as an amount
payable under the Act and/or Rules, necessarily requires adjudication
process and, in absence thereof, initiation of garnishee proceedings is not
sustainable in the eyes of law and even amounts to taking extra legal steps
for recovery of the amount from an assessee. 9. Per contra, Mr. Ratnesh Kumar, learned counsel for the respondent
submitted that the present dispute pertains to recovery of interest not on the
ground of delay in filing of GSTR-3B Return, but on the ground of delayed
payment of tax beyond the stipulated date as prescribed under Section 39(1) read with Section 39(7) of the CGST Act. It is the case of the revenue that
once there is a delay in payment of tax, the liability to pay interest on the
same becomes automatic, for which no separate proceedings is required to
be initiated for determining such interest liability. 10. It has been further submitted by learned counsel of the respondent that
it is an admitted case of default in filing self-assessed monthly statement/
return within the statutory period and payment of admitted self-assessed tax,
which consequentially attracts payment of interest under Section 50 of the
CGST Act. In other words, it has been contended that payment of interest as
envisaged under Section 50 of the Act is automatic and is to be paid by the
defaulter at his own without initiating any adjudication process under Section 73 or 74 of the CGST Act . Further, while referring to Section 73 or
74 of the CGST Act , it has been contended that said Sections are not
applicable in the instant case, as it relates only to demand and recovery of
tax not paid or short paid either on account of fraud or willful misstatement
or suppression of facts, or otherwise. It has been further contended by the
respondents that due date as reflected in GSTN Portal as "31 st March, 2019" International Auto Limited) 11. Mr. Ratnesh Kumar, learned counsel for the revenue further, while
justifying the action of initiation of garnishee proceedings under Section 79 of the CGST Act, contended that since the liability for payment of interest is
automatic on delayed payment of tax, the amount of interest is an amount
payable under the Act or the Rules and since the assessee, despite notices
being issued to it, has failed to discharge the said liability, it was well within
the competence of the respondent-Authorities to initiate garnishee
proceedings under Section 79 of the CGST Act by attaching Bank account
of the petitioner. 12. We have heard the parties and have given our conscious consideration
to the issue involved in the instant writ application, which according to us, is
of seminal importance owing to the fact that CGST Act is a new enactment
and the question raised herein will have bearing upon large number of
assesses. 13. Before adverting to the issues involved in the instant writ application,
we may like to refer an earlier order dated 24.07.2019 passed by this Court
in the instant writ petition, wherein we have noted that the screen shots of
the G.S.T.N Portal showing the due date for furnishing monthly returns for
February and March 2018, as 31st March 2019, as contained in Annexures 4
and 4/1 to the writ application, were not denied by learned counsel for
C.G.S.T. It is an admitted position that on GSTN Portal for the months of
February and March, 2018, due date for filing return was reflecting as 31 st
March, 2019. Although it was contended that said due date has been 6 reflected on GSTN Portal only because a waiver of Late Fee was notified by
the Central Government for delay in filing the Return for the said month up
to 31st March,2019, and the due date for filing such return was not extended
up to 31st March, 2019. Be that as it may, the fact remains that on GSTN
Portal, due date for filing monthly return for February and March, 2018 was
reflected as 31st March, 2019 and, admittedly, the Petitioner filed its returns
for the said months much prior to the said date. After noticing the said fact,
this Court, vide order dated 24.07.2019, stayed the operation of the
garnishee notice contained in the Order dated 22.05.2019 (Annexure-10 of
the Supplementary Affidavit) and directed the respondents to file their
counter affidavit. 14. At this stage, we may indicate here that this Court is not expressing
any opinion as to whether the petitioner was liable to pay interest or not,
which, in the opinion of the Court, is required to be adjudicated first by the
Revenue Authorities. However, the aforesaid facts are noted by us in our
Judgment for the limited purpose to indicate that there was a dispute
between the Assessee-Petitioner and the Revenue regarding liability of
interest for alleged delayed filing of monthly return for the months of
February and March, 2018 and, consequentially, alleged delay in payment of
tax. 15. In the backdrop of the aforesaid fact, we proceed to decide the main
issues involved for adjudication in the instant writ application, which have
already been delineated hereinabove. For the purpose of adjudicating the
said issues, it would be relevant to quote some of the provisions of the CGST Act , which are as under:- (2) The interest under sub-section (1) shall be calculated, in such
 manner as may be prescribed, from the day succeeding the day
 on which such tax was due to be paid. (3) A taxable person who makes an undue or excess claim of input
 tax credit under sub-section (10) of section 42 or undue or
 excess reduction in output tax liability under sub-section (1) of section 43 , shall pay interest on such undue or excess claim or
 on such undue or excess reduction, as the case may be, at such
 rate not exceeding twenty-four per cent, as may be notified by
 the Government on the recommendations of the Council." Section 73 "73. Determination of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously
 refunded or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilized for any
 reason other than fraud or any willful misstatement or
 suppression of facts. (1) Where it appears to the proper officer that any tax has not been
 paid or short paid or erroneously refunded, or where input tax
 credit has been wrongly availed or utilized for any reason, 8 other than the reason of fraud or any willful misstatement or
 suppression of facts to evade tax, he shall serve notice on the
 person chargeable with tax which has not been so paid or
 which has been so short paid or to whom the refund has
 erroneously been made, or who has wrongly availed or utilized
 input tax credit, requiring him to show cause as to why he
 should not pay the amount specified in the notice along with
 interest payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty
 leviable under the provisions of this Act or the rules made
 thereunder. (2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under sub-section (1)
 at least three months prior to the time limit specified in sub-
 section (10) for issuance of order. (3) Where a notice has been issued for any period under sub- section (1), the proper officer may serve a statement, containing
 the details of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously refunded
 or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilized for such periods
 other than those covered under sub-section (1), on the person
 chargeable with tax. (4) The service of such statement shall be deemed to be service of
 notice on such person under sub-section (1), subject to the
 condition that the grounds relied upon for such tax periods
 other than those covered under sub-section (1) are the same as
 are mentioned in the earlier notice. (5) The person chargeable with tax may, before service of notice
 under sub-section (1) or, as the case may be, the statement
 under sub-section (3), pay the amount of tax along with interest
 payable thereon under section 50 on the basis of his own
 ascertainment of such tax or the tax as ascertained by the
 proper officer and inform the proper officer in writing of such
 payment. (6) The proper officer, on receipt of such information, shall not
 serve any notice under sub-section (1), or, as the case may be,
 the statement under sub-section (3), in respect of the tax so paid
 or any penalty payable under the provisions of this Act or the
 rules made thereunder. (7) Where the proper officer is of the opinion that the amount paid
 under sub-section (5) falls short of the amount actually
 payable, he shall proceed to issue the notice as provided for in
 sub-section (1) in respect of such amount which falls short of
 the amount actually payable. (8) Where any person chargeable with tax under sub-section (1) or
 sub-section (3) pays the said tax along with interest payable 9 under section 50 within thirty days of issue of show cause
 notice, no penalty shall be payable and all proceedings in
 respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be concluded. (9) The proper officer shall, after considering the representation, if
 any, made by person chargeable with tax, determine the amount
 of tax, interest and a penalty equivalent to ten per cent of tax or
 ten thousand rupees, whichever is higher, due from such person
 and issue and order. (10) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-section (9)
 within three years from the due date for furnishing of annual
 return for the financial year to which the tax not paid or short
 paid or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilized relates to or
 within three years from the date of erroneous refund. (11) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (6) or sub- section (8), penalty under sub-section (9) shall be payable
 where any amount of self-assessed tax or any amount collected
 as tax has not been paid within a period of thirty days from the
 due date of payment of such tax." (Emphasis Supplied) 16. A bare reading of the provisions of Section 39(1) read with Section
39(7) of the CGST Act would reveal that a dealer is liable to pay tax within
20th day of the succeeding month for which the dealer was liable to file his
monthly return. 17. Further, Section 50 of the Act contains provisions relating to Levy of
Interest on delayed payment of tax. A reading of sub-section (2) of Section
50 itself would reveal that interest payable under sub-section (1) of Section
50 is required to be calculated in such manner, as may be prescribed. 18. However, the important issue for consideration in the instant writ
application is the interpretation of the provisions of Section 73 of the Act. A
bare reading of Section 73(1) of the Act reveals that where it appears to the
Proper Officer that any tax has not been paid or short paid" the Proper
Officer shall serve notice on the person chargeable with tax, "which has not
been so paid" or "which has been short paid" requiring him to show cause as
to why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice along with
interest payable thereon under Section 50 of the Act and a penalty leviable
under the provisions of the Act and Rules. Thus, a bare reading of Section 10 73(1) would reveal that if tax has not been paid or has been short paid, a
notice is required to be served by the Proper Officer on the assesse not only
requiring him to show cause as to why tax be not recovered from it, but also
specifying in the notice the interest payable under Section 50 also to be
recovered along with penalty. Thus, if there is a short payment of tax or non-
payment of tax, a notice is required to be issued even for recovery of interest
under Section 50 of the CGST Act. 19. The question would, therefore, arise that if an assesse, who has
already paid tax, but has paid the same after some delay, would fall within
the expression "tax not being paid or short paid". The aforesaid issue has
already been answered by this Court in the case of Godavari Commodities
Ltd. Vs. Union of India and ors., reported in 2019 SCC Online Jhar 1839,
as under:- 20. This Court, while interpreting the term "tax not paid" has held that if a
tax has not been paid within the prescribed period, the same would fall with
the expression "tax not paid" as mentioned under Section 73 of the CGST
Act. The aforesaid interpretation further finds support from other sub-
sections of Section 73 , particularly sub-sections (5), (6) and (7) of Section 73. A bare reading of the aforesaid sub-sections (5), (6) and (7) of Section
73 would reveal that a person chargeable with tax, if before service of notice
pays the amount of tax along with interest payable thereon under Section 50 of the Act on the basis of his own ascertainment, then the Assessing Officer, 11 if satisfied that correct tax along with interest has been paid by the said
assesse, shall not issue any notice under Section 73(1) of the Act. However, Section 73(7) of the Act provides that if an assesse, who has itself on his
own ascertainment, deposited the tax along with interest, but if in the
opinion of the Proper Officer, the amount paid on own ascertainment falls
short of the amount actually payable, then a notice would be issued by the
said Proper Officer under Section 73 (1) of the Act for recovery of the actual
amount payable. Thus, from a conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions, it
would be evident that even in a case where an assesse files his return as per
his own ascertainment, pays the tax and even pays interest, but if the said
amount paid by the assesse is falling short of the amount actually payable,
the Proper Officer is required to initiate proceedings under Section 73(1) for
recovery of the said amount of tax and interest. The natural corollary of the
above interpretation is that if an assesse has allegedly delayed in filing his
return, but discharges the liability of only tax on his own ascertainment and
does not discharge the liability of interest, the only recourse available to the
Proper Officer would be to initiate proceedings under Section 73(1) of the
CGST Act for recovery of the amount of "short paid" or "not paid" interest
on the tax amount. 21. It is not a true that liability of interest under Section 50 of the CGST
Act is automatic, but the said amount of interest is required to be calculated
and intimated to an assesse. If an assesse disputes the liability of interest i.e.
either disputes its calculation or even the leviability of interest, then the only
option left for the Assessing Officer is to initiate proceedings either under Section 73 or 74 of the Act for adjudication of the liability of interest.
Recently, the Hon'ble Madras High Court, in its decision dated 19th
December, 2019 rendered in Writ Appeals in the case of The Assistant
Commissioner of CGST & Central Excise and others Vs. Daejung
Moparts Pvt. Ltd. and ors , has taken similar view. The said Writ Appeals
were initially decided by a Two Judges Bench of the Hon'ble Madras High
Court and divergent views were taken by the Hon'ble Judges on the issue of
initiation of adjudication proceedings before imposing liability of interest
under Section 50 of the Act. The matter was, thus, referred to learned Third 12 Judge, which was decided vide Judgment dated 19th December 2019 in the
following terms:- 22. The next issue for adjudication in the instant writ application is as to
whether garnishee proceedings under Section 79 of the CGST Act can be
initiated for recovery of interest without adjudicating the liability of interest,
when the same is admittedly disputed by the assesse. Section 79 of the
CGST Act empowers the authorities to initiate garnishee proceedings for
recovery of tax where "any amount payable by a person to the Government
under any of the provisions of the Act and Rules made thereunder is not
paid". Since in the preceding paragraphs of our Judgment, we have already
held that though the liability of interest is automatic, but the same is required 14 to be adjudicated in the event an assesse disputes the computation or very
leviability of interest, by initiation of adjudication proceedings under Section
73 or 74 of the CGST Act , in our opinion, till such adjudication is completed
by the Proper Officer, the amount of interest cannot be termed as an amount
payable under the Act or the Rules. Thus, without initiation of any
adjudication proceedings, no recovery proceeding under Section 79 of the
Act can be initiated for recovery of the interest amount. 23. Accordingly, the impugned order dated 08.03.2019 issued by
Respondent No.3 (Superintendent, Daltonganj Range) (as contained in
Annexure-7) is hereby quashed/set aside and, further, garnishee notice
contained in the Order dated 22.05.2019 (Annexure-10 of the Supplementary
Affidavit) issued under Section 79 of the CGST Act to the Banker of the
petitioner for recovery of interest amount of Rs.19,59,721/- is also, hereby,
quashed/set aside. 24. It shall be open for the respondent Authorities to initiate appropriate
adjudication proceeding either under Section 73 or 74 of the CGST Act (as
the case may be) against the petitioner-assessee and determine the liability of
interest, if any, in accordance with law after giving due opportunity of
hearing to the petitioner. 25. Accordingly, the writ application is allowed. However, no order as to
costs. (Deepak Roshan, J.)

H.C. Mishra, J:- I agree

 (H.C. Mishra, J.)
High Court of Jharkhand, Ranchi
Dated:21/04/2020
NAFR/Pramanik