We missed this earlier: Acknowledging the threat to children’s right to privacy when asked to provide Aadhaar details during admission, the Delhi High Court on September 13 upheld the decision of a single judge to stay two Delhi government circulars mandating such practices for EWS/DG/CWSN category children.

Delhi government’s circulars mandating Aadhaar for admission: Earlier, the Delhi government issued circulars that required children’s Aadhaar card or number for admission to private unaided recognized schools under the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS)/Disadvantaged Group(DG)/Children With Special Needs (CWSN) category.

Following this circular, a 5-year-old’s father in Delhi filed a plea challenging the document, alleging his child could not participate in a computerised government lottery scheme for allocation of seats in schools due to lack of Aadhaar details. The single judge had ordered a stay on the circulars based on this plea.

Obtaining a child’s personal details infringes on privacy: Although the Delhi government appealed against the stay, Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sanjeev Narula upheld the decision.

“The view taken by learned Single Judge is completely in consonance with the judgment of Supreme Court in K.S. Puttaswamy (Supra), relevant portions whereof has been extracted in the impugned order. The issue of obtaining sensitive personal details of a child, as observed in K.S. Puttaswamy case, would have the potential of infringing their right to privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. It would thus suffice to state that the impugned Circulars are prima facie in conflict with the constitutional provisions, effect whereof has rightly been stayed by learned Single Judge,” said the court order.

Government claims Aadhaar eliminates duplication: Santosh Tripathi, Standing Counsel for the Delhi government, challenged the impugned order by stating that the single judge “failed to adequately understand the intent and objectives behind the contested Circulars.”

He argued that the requirement for an Aadhaar card/number eliminates duplicate applications by serving as a unique identifier. Further, he said the circulars were intended to “modernize” the admission process for EWS/DG category in entry-level classes in private, unaided, recognized schools.

“…mandating an Aadhaar Card or Aadhaar Number for child admissions under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 does not violate the child’s right to free and compulsory education. Rather, it serves as a safeguard against fraudulent applications and admissions based on false identities,” he said as per the court order.

Tripathi also argued that there is no infringement of privacy since the government “has no intention of compromising the privacy or security of applicants, and is not accessing the Aadhaar database directly.” The High Court in turn said it found no merit in the government appeal.

In July, 2023, Union Minister of State (MoS) Annapurna Devi said in the Rajya Sabha that no child should be denied admission and other facilities for lack of Aadhaar. Her statement came after the rise of a general trend in India to mandate a child’s Aadhaar details for availing admission and other educational facilities in government schools.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event