Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) launched a range of citizen-centric services on October 22, which includes national Wi-Fi roaming, fiber-based intranet TV, direct-to-device connectivity, and a spam-blocking solution. BSNL is also offering its Fiber To The House (FFTH) customers free high-speed internet access at its hotspots as part of the national Wi-Fi roaming service.

Further, BSNL will provide over 500 channels through fiber-based internet and PayTV (where users pay for a specific channel subscription). The company said that it will not charge FFTH users extra for this service either.

At the service launch, BSNL also spoke about the viability of its Direct-to-Device connectivity, stating that it could be beneficial for emergency situations and for providing connectivity in isolated regions. It added that this connectivity could help people in isolated regions use digital services like Unified Payments Interface (UPI). Direct-to-device connectivity allows devices to switch between terrestrial to satellite networks without additional hardware. BSNL recently tested this service in partnership with satcom service provider Viasat.

The company announced its artificial intelligence-based spam solution in September . During the new service launch, the company expanded on the details of this service stating that it would automatically filter out phishing attempts and malicious SMSes “without the need to issue alerts to customers.”

This is different from the service Airtel launched in September , which alerts users about spam calls and messages based on an AI-based analysis of various parameters such as a caller/message sender’s usage pattern, call/SMS frequency, call duration, etc. Similar to the Airtel system, BSNL’s solution also runs the risk of negatively affecting legitimate calls (for instance delivery persons for companies like Swiggy or Zomato).

When journalists raised the issue during Airtel’s press conference, Gopal Vittal, Airtel’s Managing Director said, “The reason we’re not blocking right now is because there are some false positives, for example, a call coming from a Swiggy, could show up as spam but it’s not necessarily spam.”

However, unlike Airtel’s solution, BSNL’s practice could end up completely blocking them out, which could adversely affect both businesses and its own customers.

The company also mentioned that it will soon launch 5G services and has successfully conducted trials for a 5G radio access network (RAN). Speaking at BSNL’s service launch, Union Minister of Communications Jyotiraditya M. Scindia mentioned that the company will set up 100,000 4G sites by 2025 and many of these will graduate to 5G connectivity. Further, the company has set up a reliable, low-latency, 5G connectivity for mining operations in partnership with the Center for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC).

Of all the telecom companies (telcos), BSNL is the only one that has yet to complete its 4G rollout. Unlike the state-run telco, others like Airtel and Reliance Jio are providing 5G services, and the other key private telco Vodafone Idea (Vi) is in the process of expanding its 4G service and initiating 5G coverage.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event