Over the weekend, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade released India’s Draft Ecommerce Policy (pdf). The DPIIT has invited comments from stakeholders and the public, which can be sent to [email protected] till 9 March 2019.

At this point, it is unclear if the comments submitted towards this draft will be made public.

Points raised in the policy are both explicitly cited and paraphrased. Here’s a piece by piece lowdown on all the issues it raises:

The goal:

Through 6 issues:

Taking into account the “needs and expectations of all stakeholders.. startups, small manufacturing, trading and service enterprises a high consideration.”

The policy states that “There is no universally accepted definition of e-commerce. In this Policy, the terms ‘e-commerce’, ‘electronic-commerce’ and the ‘digital economy’ are used interchangeably, as the context requires.”

e-Commerce includes buying, selling, marketing or distribution of

So, the protection that is available to India, for the nascent industries in the digital arena will disappear at once, and is an important issue which concerns public policy makers in the developing world.

*

Some of the most pertinent flags relating to the Indian digital ecosystem are:

During negotiations, the policy space must be retained to seek disclosure of source code for facilitating transfer of technology and development of applications for local needs as well as for security . Policy space to grant preferential treatment of digital products created within India must also be retained.

“ The Policy acknowledges the importance of data as an asset and identifies the means to protect data generated in India, enhance data security, prevent violation of privacy and create domestic standards for devices which are used to store, process and access data.”

“ India is likely to become one of the largest sources of such commercially useful data in the world. Further, the presence of ‘network effects’ means that in the era of data, the larger the firm, the greater the access to potential sources of data and greater the likelihood of its success.”

The policy states that arguments that data held by large corporations should be available to other companies through ‘compulsory licensing’ or FRAND terms forgets that these companies do not own the data which they have processed and monetized.

Data can, therefore, best be likened to a societal ‘commons’ .

Readers would like to note here that over the period of this month, that the Indian Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology has called on Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram representatives (a couple of weeks after it summoned Twitter ) to discuss the safeguarding of citizens’ rights on online platforms.

Multiple measures here overlap with the requirements for India’s proposed Intermediary Guidelines.

The FDI Policy in e-commerce aims to demarcate what constitutes a marketplace model and what comprises an inventory-based model of sale and distribution. “ A situation of capital dumping is to be strongly discouraged … The FDI policy, also takes into account interests of domestic manufacturers/traders/sellers/MSMEs/start-ups and seeks to create a level playing field in retail.”

The following shall be applicable to all e-commerce websites/applications:

Note that this rule about customs is going to affect all orders made from non-India based ecommerce sites like AliExpress, Etsy, Kickstarter to name a few.

Need for a local office: All ecommerce sites/apps available for download in India must have a registered business entity in India as the importer on record or as the entity through which all sales in India are transacted…. for preventing deceptive and fraudulent practices, protection of privacy, safety and security.

Consumer/Business Payments from Indian banks and payment gateways to unauthorized and unregistered (GST non-compliant) sites/apps shall be barred .

Trade mark (TM) owners shall be given the option to register themselves with e-commerce platforms . Whenever a trade-marked product is uploaded for sale on the platform, the platform shall notify the respective TM owner. This facility shall be put in place by platforms and made available for interested TM owners.

In case a complaint is received about a product being fake/counterfeit, the same shall be conveyed within 12 hours to the owner of the TM . If the owner of a TM informs the platform about the product being sold on its platform to be counterfeit, it shall notify the seller and if the seller is unable to provide evidence that the product is genuine, it shall take down its listing and notify the TM owner of the same…

… In case a customer makes a complaint about a counterfeit product, marketplaces would have liability to return the amount paid by the customer . In addition, the marketplaces shall cease to host the counterfeited product on their platform, thereby taking down every information related to the product.

A body of industry stakeholders will be created that shall identify ‘rogue websites’ which host pirated content. After verification, these rogue websites shall be included in the “Infringing Websites list’ (IWL). This shall invite the following:

Issues related to payment processes and other financial transactions which are inherent to e-commerce will be addressed in order to prevent data-leaks/theft, protect privacy and sensitive data, and enabling secured transactions.

Exemption from content liability: “… it is important to emphasize on responsibility and liability of these platforms and social media to ensure genuineness of any information posted on their websites.”

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event