In May 2025, Sonipat Police filed an FIR against Ashoka University Professor Ali Khan Mahmudabad for his social media posts about Operation Sindoor. The professor’s posts analysed the Indian military’s response and commended the fact that the military prevented unnecessary escalation. Mahmudabad also flagged the negative impact of war and the hypocrisy of celebrating the role of female soldiers during the military response while ignoring communal violence and hate crimes in India.

The FIR charges Mahmudabad with a range of violations under the Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS), including a violation of Section 353 of the Act, which penalises the act of conducing public mischief, according to a Times of India report . Mahmudabad is not the only person that law enforcement has charged with ‘conducing public mischief’ for something said online. In April , Lucknow Police registered cases against University of Lucknow assistant professor Madri Kakoti (known online as Dr Medusa) and folk singer Neha Singh Rathore for posts they made about Operation Sindoor, with inciting public mischief being one of the grounds of the FIRs. Besides using the clause for FIRs, the government has also invoked this in conjunction with Section 79(3) to issue about 548 takedown notices to X (formerly Twitter) between March 2024 and 2025.

With the clause featuring so frequently in action against social media content, one has to question: what can reasonably be considered ‘conducing public mischief’ on the internet?

Section 353 (previously Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code) penalises anyone who makes or circulates statements or false information (including through electronic means):

For the first three sub-clauses, the punishment is imprisonment for up to three years, a fine, or both. Further, anyone who makes statements to create enmity between different groups in a place of worship or at religious ceremonies is punishable with up to five years in prison, a fine, or both.

Based on the contents of Section 353, it is evident that it seeks to tackle the spread of false information. Sure enough, some of the takedown notices that the government sent to X over the past year were related to people spreading misinformation. These notices also show that, in some instances, the government inadvertently took down content flagging misinformation instead of spreading it. One of the tweets it had blocked spoke about how the Association of Sunni Muslims (Dubai), in a fake letter, was asking the Muslim community to vote for Congress. The government asked X to take down not only this tweet but also another that pointed out that the letter was fake.

However, law enforcement does not seem to limit its use of the public mischief clause to such purposes. For instance, one of the pieces of content that the government issued takedown orders for under Section 353 was that of Juice Media, which produces political satire content. This was around the same time that the government took down Juice Media’s video about the Indian government titled “ Honest Government Ad: India ,” which was also removed under the public mischief clause.

“Law enforcement agencies and other actors take the mischief provision in such a broadly worded manner that they can use it for all sorts of content categories,” Raman Jit Singh Chima, the Senior International Counsel and Asia Pacific Policy Director for Access Now, told MediaNama. He mentioned that authorities previously used Section 505 of the IPC, which the BNS has replaced, to go after Facebook posts and tweets. He added that law enforcement almost reflexively includes this section when taking action against online criticism, especially criticism of government officials and government policies.

As MediaNama has previously reported , the key difference between Section 353 and its IPC counterpart Section 505 is that it explicitly includes electronic means of disseminating information. This increases the scope of the government’s control over digital discourse. “So this is like the complementary thing. They use the mischief provision to target people directly, create a chilling effect, and then they are using that also in order to justify takedowns with platforms,” Chima explained, in the context of X takedowns featuring Section 353 of BNS.

Just like Chima, Mishi Choudhary, the founder of the Software Freedom Law Center ( SFLC.in ), also pointed out the broad scope of Section 353. “It seems Section 66A [of the IT Act]’s spirit has found a new home in Section 353 of the BNS,” Choudhary said. Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act), criminalised sending false or offensive information on the internet.

The government had originally introduced this provision to the IT Act to address cybercrime against women, only for law enforcement to misuse it. For example, in 2012 , Mumbai Police arrested a girl for a Facebook post she made questioning the total shutdown of the city for politician Bal Thackeray’s funeral under Section 66A. It also took action against another girl who had liked that post. “We saw enough abuse of that section, which led to a constitutional challenge of 66A,” Choudhary explained.

The Supreme Court of India eventually struck down the provision in 2015 . When striking it down, the court noted that there are three aspects to freedom of expression: discussion, advocacy, and incitement. “Only when discussion and advocacy reach the level of incitement is Article 19(2) [of the Constitution of India], which puts reasonable restrictions on freedom of speech, applicable,” the court noted. It also mentioned that a ‘clear and present danger’ test and the ‘public disorder’ test should be the prerequisites for taking action against content in the context of public order.

Indian courts do not consider criticism by itself to be mischief, Chima mentioned. “Coupled with other stuff, such as public protests or direct linkage with disruption or violence, they may have a different view. But they seem to have very clearly protected mere criticism,” he added. However, the reason why it is hard to clearly define mischief based on court opinion is that a lot of mischief cases do not end up in court, Chima explained. This is especially true for public mischief-related content takedowns. “The cases that do come in have seen pushback from the judiciary on the use of the section overall,” he said, adding that the most prominent example of this was the case against journalist Makepeace Sitlhou in 2023.

Sitlhou had made tweets discussing the Manipur government’s alleged failure to control violence in the state, after which law enforcement filed an FIR against her, with public mischief being one of the clauses they used, according to a report by The Wire. “There was a laundry list of charges, and the Supreme Court immediately issued a stay, including on the mischief provision. And that is an example of them trying to send a signaling effect,” Chima explained.

He argued that a partly similar situation is playing out in the case against Ashoka University professor Mahmudabad as well. “The court is not immediately jumping to agree that the law enforcement authorities correctly used the mischief provision. They have said that we need an investigation to understand what actually happened,” Chima argued.

Speaking to MediaNama in the context of a public mischief case last year , advocate Samar Bansal pointed out that Section 353 exempts people from liability for statements that they had reasonable grounds to believe were true.

The clause specifies that, to be exempt from penalty, the person spreading such information should also have no intent to cause any of the harms mentioned in Section 353. Bansal argued that this can help an accused establish that their publication was innocent if they can show that they had “reasonable grounds” to believe the “false statement” was true when they made it.

Chima explained that much is likely not even entering the judiciary’s lens in the context of the government using the mischief provision for content takedowns. “A lot of takedowns might be going directly to platforms, and those are not being revealed. So people may not even be able to take them to courts because they don’t actually have any documentation of the takedown being based on the mischief provision,” he explained.

For public mischief-related takedowns to go to court, either platforms would have to approach the courts or notify users, who could then take the matter to court, Chima pointed out. Sure enough, even in the case of the X takedowns, the only reason that the government’s use of the mischief provision became public knowledge was that the government mentioned these details in response to the case X had filed against them.

Note: The post was updated on June 4, 2025 at 1:55 PM to correct a designation.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event