Argued by: 2.         On the last date of hearing, it was agreed that in case the account is settled and the Opposite Parties are ready to handover possession of the built-up flat with increased area of 165.14 Sq. ft. within two months, the complainants will not insist for refund of the amount paid by them. 3.         After discussion amongst themselves, the parties through their Counsel state that possession of the flat measuring 1915.14 Sq. ft. shall be handed over to the complainant within two months. The flat has been built-up as per the specifications given in the Buyer's Agreement. The possession letter will be issued to the complainants by the Opposite Parties within six weeks from today. It is further agreed that at the time of intimation of taking possession, the Opposite Parties shall pay an amount of Rs.4,25,000/- to the complainants. Above amount includes Rs.1 Lac towards compensation payable to the complainants for physical harassment etc. 4.         It is also agreed between the parties that the complainants shall make payment of an amount of Rs.95,757/- towards Interest Free Maintenance Charges within two months from the date of taking possession. So far as expenses towards stamp duty and registration & infrastructure development charges @2% for the purpose of registration of the flat are concerned, the same shall be paid by the complainants at the time when they opt for registration of the flat in their name. It is further agreed that common area maintenance charges to the tune of Rs.63,200/- shall be paid by the complainants within two months from the date of taking possession of the flat. So far as electrification charges are concerned, the complainants shall make payment as per the meter reading of the meter fixed for the said purpose. So far as water charges for 12 months are concerned, the amount of Rs.3,600/- shall also be paid by the complainants within two months from the date of taking possession. 5.         It is also agreed that the complainants shall be bound to pay towards club membership as and when they wish to become members of the club within the locality. 6.         It is made clear that if the Opposite Parties failed to honor commitment made, this complaint shall be deemed to have been accepted as prayed by the complainants." 2.         In terms of above order, the Decree Holders/complainants earlier filed Execution Application No.6 of 2016, which was disposed of vide order dated 15.02.2016, in the following manner:- 3.         Subsequently, the instant Execution Application was filed by the Decree Holders/complainants under Section 27 of the Act, which came up for hearing on 04.04.2016. The grievance of the Decree Holders/complainants is that the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties failed to honor their commitments and, therefore, the complaint of the Decree Holders/complainants be allowed and the possession taken over by the Decree Holders/complainants be taken back by the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties alongwith fixtures and the compensation so awarded be deducted after allowing the complaint of the Decree Holders/complainants. On 04.04.2016, on our asking, Sh. Sanjeev Sharma, Advocate accepted notice of the Execution Application and he was directed to place, on record, the measurement, as to how and in what manner, area had been added to calculate the super area of the unit. It was also noticed that super area had been calculated at 1915.14 per Sq. ft. as against original super area of 1750 per sq. ft. On 20.05.2016, Counsel for the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties placed on record reply/objections to the Execution Application alongwith short affidavit of Sh. Gurdeep Singh, Senior Manager (Legal) and authorized representative of the Opposite Parties and details, as to how the area of the unit had been calculated. 4.         As per reply/objections filed by the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties, there was no change in the unit area as per Buyer's Agreement and after construction, the same being 1449.92 sq. ft. The common area as per Agreement was 300.8 Sq. ft, whereas after construction, it was 465.22 sq. ft. Thus, there is variation of 165.14 sq. ft. It was further stated that the Decree Holders/complainants have been handed over possession of the flat as per the order and the Decree Holders themselves have not abided by the order dated 30.10.2015 by not paying the due charges, though agreed and consented in the order. It was further stated that the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties paid an additional amount of Rs.50,000/-, which was never within the purview of order dated 30.10.2015. It was lastly stated that the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties were always willing and performed their part of obligation with respect to the order dated 30.10.2015. 5.         During arguments on 23.06.2016, Counsel for the Decree Holders/complainants stated that the Decree Holders/complainants were not able to comprehend the calculation of common area given by the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties alongwith their reply/objections to the Execution Application. It may be stated here that as per Clause 1.2 of the Agreement, sale price of the apartment was to be calculated on the basis of the super area (as defined and detailed out in Annexure III) and that the super area as stated in the Agreement was tentative and subject to change till the completion of the construction and issuance of occupation certificate by the competent authorities. The super area of the unit, in question, at the time of booking was 1750 sq. ft. whereas after construction, it came to be 1915.14 sq. ft. The definition of super area as indicated in Annexure III, annexed with the Buyer's Agreement is as under:- It is further clarified that the Super Area mentioned in the Agreement is tentative and for the purpose of computing sale price in respect of said Unit only and the inclusion of common area within the said building/tower for the purpose of calculating super area does not give any right, title or interest in common areas to Allottee except the right to use common areas by sharing with other occupants/Allottee in the said building subject to timely payment of maintenance charges." 6.         Clause 18.2 of the Agreement stipulated that in case of any alteration/modification resulting in less than 10% (ten percent) increase in super area, then in such an event, the Company shall not be obliged to take any consent from the allottee. The allottee agreed and acknowledged that the allottee shall be obliged to make payments for such increase in the area within thirty (30) days of the date of intimation by the Company. In case, there was any alteration/ modification resulting in less than 10% decrease in super area, then the excess amount towards the sale consideration was to be adjusted by the Company at the time of final accounting. 7.         In this case, increase in super area is less than 10% and no consent of the Decree Holders/complainants was required. The Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties alongwith their reply/objections have submitted details of the common area were included in the super area. The Decree Holders/complainants did not rebut the same by placing, on record, any report of their Engineer or Architect. No dispute or grievance qua increase in area was ever raised by the Decree Holders/complainants in their complaint or the documents annexed with the complaint. Even no dispute qua area of the flat measuring 1915 sq. ft. was raised at the time of passing order dated 30.10.2015 in Consumer Complaint No.206 of 2015, as is evident from Paras 2 and 3 of the order, extracted and produced in opening part of this order. 8.           The measurement of the unit, with the present Execution Application by way of Annexure    A-2, given by the Decree Holders/complainants             is in respect of the unit area including shaft             area and balconies, which is 1449.923 sq.                   ft. qua which there has been no increase and       dispute. Clearly the aforesaid area is exclusive of common area. The averment of the Decree Holders/complainants in Para 5 of their Execution Application  that  despite  repeated  reminders  to  the

 

Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties, no approved drawings were supplied to them inspite of correspondence between the parties is without any cogent evidence. On the other hand, as already stated above, the Decree Holders/complainants failed to rebut the calculation of common areas placed on record by the Judgment Debtor alongwith their objections alongwith short affidavit of their Senior Manager (Legal). 9.         Since the order dated 30.10.2015 passed by this Commission in Consumer Complaint No.206 of 2015 stands complied with by the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties, the prayer made in the instant (second) Execution Application to allow the complaint of the Decree Holders by taking back possession by the Judgment Debtors/Opposite Parties alongwith fixtures and after deducting compensation, is not tenable. 10.       This Execution Application is disposed of accordingly. 11.       Certified Copies of this order be sent to the parties, free of charge. Pronounced. July  05, 2016

 

[JUSTICE JASBIR SINGH (RETD.)]

 

PRESIDENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(DEV RAJ)

 

MEMBER

 

 

 

      [HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE Jasbir Singh] PRESIDENT 
   [ DEV RAJ] MEMBER