Hi Please I am advising you all people who are going to start their process with Sernexuss Management and Services Pvt. Ltd. This is one of THE BEST fraud companies in India; I am surprised that after so mANY COMPLAINTs Neither Indian Govt and Nor Police department is taking any actions against them. It happens only in India There are few things which totally prove that Sernexuss is a big Cheat, Once you open the website of Sernexuss nothing is mention about their Owners and the Highest authority it seems n one is going to take the responsibility of the company and friend think about this if you have paid for your process whom you going to blame for this, I guess no one there is no one in the picture. Secondly they will provide you a registration number of Ministry of corporate affairs, Here they will make fool of you because Ministry of corporate affairs (is an Indian government ministry. It is charged with administering the The Companies Act, 1956 and other acts related to Indian private sector. It is responsible mainly for regulation of Indian enterprises in Industrial and Services sector) and it has nothing to do with immigration and its registration you can take with only 15-20000 INR. When i go deep into that ### I found Sernexuss is not at all registered with Immigration Authorities like MARA in Australia and ICCRC for CANADA, You can visit their sites to find out the GENUINE Agent. They are fully advertising that we are THE BEST immigration consultants from the past 10 years and the most funny thing is that the registration number they have mentioned is of 2018 and it has currently expired, So I mean to say it’s not a company which is running from past 4 years. Once you pay them they will provide you a piece of crap which they call a legal service agreement believe me guys on that agreement everything is against you and after a certain point of time that time is only one week after the payment they stop attending your calls and will provide you a lot of excuses like he/ She is in meeting or he/she is not available and THE BEST excuse is of medical leave. So think [protected] times before you start putting your hard earned money into that ###. If you are really keen to go abroad and looking for Permanent residence you can file your visa on your own until and unless you are dam illiterate to fill up certain form ohhh come on guyz you are not living in a stone age and you are not unaware of technology, everything is online now a days, you don’t need these ### piece of crap consultants. You can visit respective govt websites to take full information HTTP://WWW.immi.gov.au/, , , HTTP://WWW.cic.gc.ca/ God has saved me for wasting my money but he cannot save my friend and he has wasted 120000 INR on these BASTARDS for Canadian PR Visa and now he is in DEBT. So kindly don’t accept a single call from Sernexuss Management and Services Pvt Ltd They are not only wasting your money they are wasting your time also and most important they are playing with your dreams.. This is my heartiest request to Indian law, Kindly take into this matter as your priority and shut down these companies As soon as possible to save other millions of innocent people. All I want to say is, Not reliable, Trustless. All they wanted to seethe the Money from People. I would strongly suggest to everyone don9;t go through this Company for any visa. Don’t please towards any abroad opportunities through this consultancy service. Be aware that9;s it all I want to say. A responsible Indian Citizen Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)