It’s not a good thing for any company or country to have the power to unplug India from the internet, Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar told The Hindu in an interview on April 26. “We are going to have a trillion-dollar digital economy in a few years, and a large number of businesses will be on the Indian Internet, so the Internet becomes an important economic component of our country. So if anybody has the power to unplug the Internet, it’s not a good thing. We don’t like the idea that any country should be, could be, must be, can be, vulnerable to that kind of conduct – politically directed conduct, or any blackmail directed conduct,” Chandrasekhar said.

Chandrasekhar made these comments in response to a question on how India should react after witnessing the role and influence of Big Tech in the conflict between Ukraine and Russia . Most major companies and platforms have stopped serving Russian users either due to sanctions imposed by western countries or on their own. For example, major social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube imposed curbs on Russian state-controlled media and on Russian advertisements, companies like Microsoft and Apple stopped selling their products, and payment companies like Mastercard and Visa stopped offering their services.

“We have to ensure that we cannot be unplugged; intermediaries will have to play by the rules and laws of India. The weaponisation of the Internet, or “splinternet,” is something we need to plan not being vulnerable to. It is an objective for us,” Chandrasekhar said.

Back when the Russian–Ukraine conflict began, we wrote that the effect of the measures taken by major social media platforms and tech companies is not limited to two countries and will have significant implications for other countries as well. Chandrasekhar’s comments confirm this as it indicates that India will introduce regulations that make it harder for international companies to abruptly stop serving Indian users. In the same interview, Chandrasekhar also said that the government will release a draft version of the proposed legislative framework to replace the Information Technology Act, 2000, as early as next month. This proposed legislation might contain some of the regulations targeted at international companies.

Chandrasekhar also suggested that India will work with other countries to come to multilateral agreements. “Increasingly bilateral or multilateral arrangements between countries will have to evolve in a way that nothing can be done in isolation from other countries. A conversation has already started on these issues, on issues that technology intermediaries cannot be left unregulated, also to dispel the belief that the Internet has no boundaries,” he said.

We also explored these implications in greater depth in our Members Call on this subject, which you can watch here .

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event