SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Just dodged a bullet! Beware of cyber criminals!
DATE: 2019-10-26
SCORE: 101
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dnaxbu/just_dodged_a_bullet_beware_of_cyber_criminals/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today at about 10:30 am I got a call. The guy was talking in Hindi. He said he is speaking from Phonepe company and he said that I have 1800 rupees cashbacks pending to be transferred to my wallet. I had uninstalled Phonepe app a month ago and I had not linked my bank account. So he asked me to install Phonepe and link my bank account so that he can transfer the money to my bank account. I downloaded Phonepe and linked my bank account. I even gave him my Airtel number, so that he can call me in that while I can use internet in the other sim card. I have tried linking my bank account to my Phonepe account before and it took a lot of time for Phonepe to fetch my bank account details, like a lot of time. And therefore I had uninstalled it. Now, again it was taking some time and I asked him how much time does it take to load. He said he can make it load if I go to Google play store and install ANYDESK APP. I searched for the app in playstore and saw it was a remote access app. I felt something was wrong with this guy and so I asked why do I need to install this app. He tried to convince me but I stalled him and finally my bank account details were ready. Then it showed me to add the last 6 digits of my card and expiry date. Quite cunningly, he asked me to tell him the last digits of my card. I was almost going to say it but I told him to wait while I add in the details. 

Then finally with my bank and card linked, I expected the money in my wallet but I got a request from safe gold company having a name Annu Roy with a bank account ××××××××8637 to pay them 1799 rupees. He didn't say me to click on the pay button, he said me to click on the button that says P, A, Y. Now I know these mind tricks. And I was convinced this guy is a professional fraudster. I asked why should I pay this person 1800 rupees when YOU should give me 1800 rupees? He said I have to click on that button so that he can transfer that money to my account. I said him that even if I did click, I don't have that much money in my account. He said me that I shouldn't fear if I don't have that much money. I asked him what if my money gets automatically debited later when I deposit. He said if I don't believe him, then it's fine. I said OK. Then he stayed silent for sometime and then he cut the call. I declined the request by safe gold. 

Later, I found out from my sister that one of her friends has lost 10000 rupees by a similar call! That guy also asked him to ANYDESK APP and by using that app he had access to all her details and stole 10000 rupees from her bank account. Now, either he was going to use my account to pay for the gold from safe gold OR he was going to debit all my money( but since I am broke currently, he could have waited till I made a deposit). He can definitely view my bank account details from my number, I don't know how. But I am not sure if he can access my account. He needed that app to be installed in my phone so that he can have access to my screen that would show my OTP and password. If it's possible to hack a bank account by just a number then please inform me.

Please beware of such fraud calls and think twice before giving out any details. I gave him only my Airtel number that is linked to the bank account and he could say the name of my mother(it's my mother's bank account). Do not download and install softwares that are not trustworthy and ask for permission that may compromise your personal and financial details, definitely not ANYDESK APP. Stay alert while talking to strangers on calls because you may subconsciously give information if you don't think before talking.