FACTS: 2. The appellant filed another RTI application dated 27.07.2017 and stated that
this was in continuation of her earlier application dated 05.07.2017. She sought as
under: 3. The CPIO vide letter dated 24.08.2017 gave following response:- 4. As some of information was refused on the pretext that it was personal
information she was not satisfied and hence filed first appealsaying: 5. The FAA ordered on 22.09.2017, as under:- I have gone through the documents relevant to the case and uphold the reply given
 by the CPIO/SSPO's Ahmednagar Division, Ahmednagar. 6. Not satisfied with the response of the respondents, the appellant filed second
appeal contending:- There were no orders on the subject to link up the Aadhaar Card to pension account
 and this has been confirmed by him (i.e. SRPM Ahmednagar) to Post Master General
 Pune on 03.04.2017 that there were no order to link up Aadhar Card. The Sub
 Regional Post Master(SRPM) Ahmednagar has exceeded his powers to harass the 55
 pensioners financially. This resulted to mental torture. Disciplinary action should be
 taken against SRPM Ahmednagar for taking unconstitutional decision to withhold the
 pension of 55 pensioners. It is constitutionally mandatory to pay the pension on first
 of every month and nobody has powers to withhold it. The SRPM Ahmednagar, had given false information and misguided the appellate
 authority. Therefore I request you kindly to look into the matter and give me the
 justice as I am a sufferer among these 55 pensioners for delay in pension payment
 of March 2017. The Post master general, Pune region, Pune, is protecting the SSPOs
 and SRPM Ahmednagar and buried the vital issue without taking action against both
 of them. Proceedings on 27th February 2018: 7. The appellant Ms. Nirmala Nishikant Dhumane stated that she took voluntary
retirement from the post office and is receiving pension on 1stof every month; she
was told that her pension for month of March 2017 was held up for want of Aadhaar
linking up along with 55 other pensioners who were former employees of this public
authority; she filed RTI application about 'linking-up of Aadhaar number to pension
accounts'; that they had no authority to link up the Aadhaar Card to her pension
account all of sudden without any notice and stop payment for that reason; she
suffered agony, various losses due to delay, could not lead normal life as pensioner
etc. 8. Mr. Sandeep Hadgal, CPIO said that he received circular to link the Aadhaar
number with the pension accounts from two of their higher officers. However, he
CIC/POSTS/A/2017/185367 Page 3
 agreed that the circular from Sub Regional Post Master Ahmednagar to Post Master
General Pune on 03.04.2017 did not order to link up Aadhar Cardwithout any
intimation.He also felt that the SRPM Ahmednagar should not have delayed the
payment of pension to the 55 pensioners for not linking with Aadhaar. 9. Appellant explained that she was under serious mental apprehension about
receiving monthly pension because of Aadhaar, the delay was unreasonable, denial
of information on that vital aspect was breach of her right and it was quite illegal to
say the names of 55 pensioners would invade somebody's privacy. 10. The respondent authority submitted that pension was not held-up. However,
there was delay in crediting the pension to their saving bank accounts. They also
submitted that copy of order by which the Aadhaar Card was made mandatory for
pensioners has already been provided vide letter dated 05.08.2017,while
responding to her applicant dated05.07.2017. They denied the names of the
pensioners whose pension was held up for want of Aadhaar card on the plea that
this is personal information of third party. 11. It is a matter of life and living of 55 pensioners who were totally dependent
upon the paltry amount of pension. Though it is a small amount even a day's delay
in payment might disturb the routine life of all or some of them. That is why the
information relating to payment pension to retired persons should be considered
and categorised as the information concerning the life and should have been
responded within 48 hours. Even if the appellant has not asked for immediate
delivery of information, the CPIO, being a senior designated officer has a duty to
consider this as information concerning the life and answer within 48 hours. it was
not done. The public authority has a duty under contract as per Contract Act,
Consumer Protection Act, Trusts Act and also under Right to Information Act to pay
the pension in time, rectify the problem of delay promptly or give information
immediately to the appellant or pensioners suffering like her. The CPIO has chosen
last i.e., 30th day to reply from date of RTI application. This reflects the CPIOs
mental rigidity to sit over the file for 29 days doing nothing, just to make use of the
facilitative provision. He simply ignored the phrase in section 7 that PIO shall 'as
expeditiously as possible' but totally exploited 'and in any case within thirty days'.
The CPIO did not bother to examine whether this information could fall under
category of "concerning life or liberty". It is inhuman for the CPIO to be so heartless
CIC/POSTS/A/2017/185367 Page 4
 about pensioner's problems and request for information. The CPIO should have
read umpteen number of the Commission orders explaining why such pension
related information should have been given within 48 hours. 12. The pensioner-applicant was asking for the list of 55 names of pensioners who
suffered like her at the hands of post office. How can that be 'personal information'
and whose privacy the CPIO was protecting? 13. In addition to the above the Postal authorities have a statutory duty to
disclose full facts and circumstances along with reasons why they are linking
Aadhaar with pension payment, why should they stop payment of pensions for the
sake of such linking, why did they not provide for sufficient advanced information to
the pensioners, whether such linking order has legal sanctity to be implemented
without any advance notice, etc under Section 4(1)(c) and (d). Referring to an
order of SC on 15th October 2015WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO 494 OF 2012 between Justice K S Puttaswamy (Retd) and another v Union of India , a media report stated: 14. Quoting the order of Supreme Court on 15.12.2017 in WRIT PETITION (CIVIL)
NO 494 OF 2012 between Justice K S Puttaswamy (Retd) and another v Union of
India, another media report stated: The order also quotes Shyam Divan, senior counsel for the petitioners, as having
 urged that since the interim order dated March 15, 2015 governs the field, it was
 the obligation of the Centre to seek a variation of the interim directions after the
 enactment of the Aadhaar Act, 2016 before making it mandatory to uplink or provide
 details of the Unique Identification Number/Aadhaar card for all purposes. The order quotes another senior counsel for the petitioner, Gopal Subramanium, as
 having advanced the submission that the issue involves the paramountcy of the
 court and of the judicial process. "In the submission of the learned counsel, the
 exercise of the judicial power in the form of the interim order dated 15 October 2015
 (and the earlier orders) was to insulate citizens against any form of compulsion, this
 being in aid of protecting their fundamental rights", the order
 adds.https://thewire.in/205416/supreme-courts-interim-order-aadhaar-fails-bring-
 relief-uid-holdouts/ 15. Because of the above orders of the Supreme Court against linking the
aadhaar with more than six categories mentioned, the Postal authorities are
expected to explain under what legal authority they have directed the post offices
to link their employer's pension payments with the aadhaar? 16. The Commission's order dated 27.02.2018: 17 was uploaded in the system on 04.04.2017 and available for withdrawal
 from SB account on 05.04.2017, RTI applicant has withdrawn her pension
 only on 08.05.2017. The systems generate SMS about credit & debit to SB
 accounts and are automatically sent to depositors. This clearly shows that,
 she was aware of pension credit on 5.4.2017 but she withdrawn amount only
 on 8.5.2017. III. PRAYER 1. The undersigned has put forth 39 years of unblemished service and is due for
 retirement in next year 2019. The undersigned has enough sympathy towards
 pensioners and during my CPIO service I have observed RTI act in true spirit.
 No any show cause or adverse from CIC / higher authority is received so far.
 My intention was to implement the decisions of Govt of India honestly by
 motivating staff under control. In the instant case, there was only one day
 delay in uploading the pension in the computer system. 2. Keeping in view, of above facts and records it is humbly requested to pardon
 for unintentional mistake if any and drop show case notice and requested not
 to impose any penalty. 18. The CPIO agreed that the pension related information about others was
denied under the privacy provision. He cited tremendous work pressure and burden
of investigating a fraud as the disturbing factors. He also listed 15 orders from the
higher authorities to link the Aadhaar to pensioners' accounts, which he was to
implement. The CPIO explained that, out of 757 pensioners, 640 pensioners has
submitted their Aadhar details to Sr Postmaster. On 3rd April Sr Postmaster has
uploaded file of 640 pensioners in the computer system. For monitoring purpose &
with intention to request the pensioners personally when they visit post office to
receive pension on 3.4.2017 he had kept data of 117 pensioners ready for
uploading in the computer system. Thereafter on 04.04.17 afternoon file of 117
pensioners was also uploaded in the system for giving credit of pension to their SB
accounts. CIC/POSTS/A/2017/185367 Page 10 19. In the name of linking to Aadhaar or other such conditions, the public
authority cannot delay the payment of pensions to the senior citizens and retired
employees in view of their post retirement requirements. The pensioners might
mainly depend upon the pension for their livelihood and delaying it will be
inhumane and also amounts to denial of their fundamental right to life. Even if
linking with Aadhaar is necessary, it should not result in delaying the payment of
pension or denial of information regarding pension. 20. There was wrongful denial of information. Pension is part of the salary as
consideration for the services rendered and continuation of payments to the retired
public servants, and that would paid out of public exchequer as per the pre-fixed
scale and other aspects. The salary detail of the public servant is not his personal
information. It has to be in the public domain under Section 4 . On the same logic
the pension related information is not personal information of the pensioner. The
CPIO should not have denied that information wrongly invoking Section 8(1)(j) of
RTI Act. On the rest of the issues raised like Aadhaar link the CPIO has given very
reasonable explanation. 21. However the Commission cannot excuse the wrongful denial of information
under this provision. Hence, taking a very lenient view, the Commission imposes a
nominal penalty of Rs 250/ (Rs Two Hundred Fifty only) for such wrongful denial on
Mr. A.V. Gaikwad, SSPO & CPIO. The Commission imposes a penalty of Rs. 250/-
against Shri A.V. Gaikwad, CPIO. The Appellate Authority is directed to recover the
amount of Rs.250/- from the salary payable to, Shri A.V. Gaikwad, CPIO by way of
Demand Draft drawn in favour of 'PAO CAT' New Delhi. The Deman Draft should
reach the Commission by 11.06.2018. The Demand Draft should be sent to Shri
S.P. Beck, Joint Secretary & Addl. Registrar, Room No. 505, Central Information
Commission, CIC Bhawan, Baba Gangnath Marg, Munirka, New Delhi-110067. SD/-