"Resolved that, approval be and is hereby accorded to the
 following; (a) In cases where after initial intimation/offer of allotment, no
 application Money/Earnest Money is paid/deposited the offer
 be cancelled ab-initio; (b) In cases of residential plots where the Application Money has
 been deposited, no formal letter be issued. Application
 Money so deposited be refunded with a letter of regret
 refunding Application Money. (c) In case of non-residential plots where allotment letters were
 issued by the Board on 28-02-2011 but Earnest Money has
 not been deposited allotment be cancelled with a letter of
 regret; (d) For the applicants of residential plots under Chairman's
 discretionary quota where formal allotment has been issued
 after receiving application money and the applicants started
 depositing money or deposited full payment, or yet to start
 depositing payment of installments, and also for the
 applicants of non-residential plots under Chairman's
 discretionary quota and allotment approved in the meeting of
 the Board of Directors on 28.02.2011 where allotment has
 been issued and earnest money, and/or other installments
 have been deposited, an option be given to all such applicants
 to withdraw the applications upon which all the amounts
 paid will be refunded within a period of fifteen days from the
 date of receipt of letters. The application for withdrawal must
 reach the office within 15 days from the date of receipt of this
 letter. 10. The petitioners say that though one of the resolutions at the board meeting
of the company held on August 19, 2011 gives the impression that the
chairman's discretionary quota for allotment of plots in New Town had been
abolished, there is no specific decision of the company reflected in the minutes of
such board meeting that records the discontinuation of allotments under such
discretionary quota. The petitioners contend that one of the resolutions adopted
at the board meeting of the company on October 22, 2011 refers to "the wishes of
the State Govt." but there is no reflection in the said minutes or elsewhere as to
what exactly was the wish of the State government and how the same had been
communicated to the company. The petitioners suggest that if the State and the
company now perceive the company under the previous minister-chairman
having been a veritable one-person organisation given to arbitrary decision-
making and whimsical allotments of land, the arbitrariness surrounding the
recent functioning of the company as reflected from its board minutes, its
decisions and the impugned letters of cancellation of allotments would require
the company in its present avatar to be painted in the same brush. They suggest
that if the company was a puppet under the previous regime with its strings
controlled exclusively by its minister-chairman, the company's present
 genuflection to the wishes of the State government betrays the same operational
stratagem. 11. The petitioners mock the independent status of the company under the
present management by referring to a board note of August 12, 2011 pertaining
to the allotments approved on February 28, 2011 and the note-sheet appended
thereto which carries signatures up to September 9, 2011. The relevant note
reflects a write-up on the matter pertaining to the allotment of plots in New
Town, Rajarhat made on February 28, 2011, both under the chairman's
discretionary quota and as otherwise resolved by the board of the company; and,
of such subject being discussed with the then Advocate-General between August
16 and August 18, 2011. The note carries a suggested resolution of the board
meeting of the company and the petitioners show that the resolution passed by
the board on August 19, 2011 was on the lines as advised by Advocate-General;
though the more refined suggested resolution, particularly as to the abolition of
the chairman's quota, appears in a less articulate manner in the minutes. The
petitioners endeavour to demonstrate that if it is the spirit in the bottle that the
new regime was seeking to complain or get rid of, it would be evident that it
remains the same though it is packaged in a new bottle bearing another hue. 12. The petitioners refer to the minutes of the 61st meeting of the board of
directors of the company held on October 22, 2010 whereat the business
pertaining to allotment of plots in New Town was discussed under item No. 28 as
follows: 13. Since the relevant discussion and the resolution referred to a "Board Note",
the company was required to produce the same. Such note (which has been
circulated at the initial stage of the hearing to all the petitioners who have opted
to receive the same) relating to item No. 28 on the agenda is captioned "Allotment
of land/ plots issued on 28.02.2011 but approved prior to 28.02.2011 for Non-
residential/ Residential / formation of Co-operative Housing Societies purposes."
The summary of the allotments in such note reflects four broad categories: non-
residential, cooperative housing societies, large cooperative societies and
individual residential plots. The relevant table, which covers 99 allotments, is set
out: 14. There are five charts which are appended to the note pertaining to item No.
28 of the agenda relating to the board meeting of the company convened on
October 22, 2011. Though the table in the relevant note refers to eight non-
residential allotment of plots, the first of the charts covers 17 non-residential
allotments where the allotment letters were issued on February 28, 2011 but the
approval was accorded prior thereto. The second chart pertains to HIG-C (5.98
cottah plot) cooperative societies, where the date of approval in all 14 cases is
shown as either February 22, 2011 or February 26, 2011 (two of the dates have
been mistakenly mentioned as February 22, 2012 and February 22, 2013) and
 the offer letters were all issued on February 28, 2011. The third list pertains to
category MIG-C (5.01 cottah plot) cooperative societies covering 13 in number
where the approval is shown to have been accorded between February 21, 2011
and February 26, 2011 and the offer letters were issued on February 28, 2011.
The fourth chart covers two groups: five cooperative societies in category LIG-C
(4.03 cottah plot), where the approval in each case was accorded between
February 22, 2011 and February 26, 2011 and the offer letters were issued on
February 28, 2011; and, four large cooperative societies allotted plots in excess of
11.96 cottah where the approval in each case was given between February 03,
2011 and February 25, 2011 and the offer letters were issued on February 28,
2011. The fifth chart pertains to individual residential allotments covering HIG-I
(2.99 cottah plot), HIG-II (4.485 cottah plot) and MIG-I (2.24 cottah plot). The
approval in respect of the 20 HIG-I allotments was accorded between January 13,
2011 and February 26, 2011 (there are three obvious mistakes in the dates of
approval being indicated as February 25, 2012, February 25, 2013 and February
22, 2012) where the offer letters were all issued on February 28, 2011 (in one
case there is an obvious mistake in the date being indicated as June 28, 2011).
The approval of the six HIG-II plots that are covered in the fourth chart were
granted between February 9, 2011 and February 26, 2011 and the offer letters
issued on February 28, 2011. The 39 MIG-I allotments in the last chart reveal the
approval being accorded between February 22, 2011 and February 26, 2011,
with the offer letters in every case being dated February 28, 2011. 15. The petitioners point out the discrepancy between the table under the
relevant note which covers 99 allotments and the charts which cover 108
allotments (17 in the non-residential category, 14 in HIG-C cooperative societies,
13 in MIG-C cooperative societies, five in LIG-C cooperative societies, four in
large cooperative societies, 20 in HIG-I individual residential allotments, six in
HIG-II residential allotments and 29 in MIG-I residential allotments). 16. The petitioners ascribe improper motive to the company and assert that the
decision-making process culminating in the cancellation of some of the
allotments by the company is so flawed that no seriousness can be attached
thereto. They refer to the discussion under item No. 28 in the agenda covering 99
allotments as shown in the board note and the resolution that followed cancelling
all the allotments covered by the note. The petitioners say that the decision as
reflected in the relevant resolution betrays complete non-application of mind in
the directors failing to recognise that the table that summarised the allotments in
the board note did not tally with charts appended thereto. They ask as to
whether all the allotments as covered by the charts stood cancelled pursuant to
the relevant board resolution of October 22, 2011 or it was left to the whims of
the officials of the company to select such 99 of those as they wished for
cancellation. 17. The petitioners say that though the board resolutions were adopted by the
company for reviewing or cancelling the allotments in August and October, 2011,
which was shortly after the change of guard at the Writers' Buildings and the
reconstitution of the board of directors of the company, no immediate follow-up
action was taken in pursuance thereof. They suggest that the period of about a
year or more after the decision to cancel the allotments was taken at the 61st
board meeting on October 22, 2011 may have been availed of to pick and choose
which allotments to cancel, which to regularise and which to turn a Nelson's eye
to. 18. The arbitrariness and whimsical approach of the State and the company,
according to the petitioners, is reflected in the shifting stands as evident from the
resolutions passed at the 60th, 61st and 70th board meetings of the Company held
on August 19, 2011 October 22, 2011 and December 1, 2012, respectively. 19. Since the basis of the company's present angst against the exercise of the
discretion by the erstwhile minister-chairman is that the allotments did not serve
any public purpose and may have caused substantial loss to the State
 exchequer, the petitioners refer to the minutes of the 62nd meeting of the board of
directors of the company held on December 28, 2011 whereat the price of land in
Rajarhat was fixed by the present board. The minutes of such meeting reflect
that Rs.2.75 lakh per cottah was found to be the break-even price. It is also for
another purpose that the rejected allottees refer to the discussion at the 62nd
board meeting preceding the relevant resolution under item No. 8 of the business
transacted at such meeting. The petitioners complain that the general policy
indicated in the relevant discussion leaves latitude for subversion in the use of
the expression "with some exceptions." The petitioners make out that it is not as
if the present board of directors of the company or the present dispensation in
power really seeks to address any issue on the basis of any principles or a sense
of propriety. They insinuate that since the allotments had been made under the
previous administration, there may be a perception that the present dispensation
has been deprived of the benefits that may have been obtained in making the
allotments under the erstwhile chairman's quota. Some of the petitioners rush to
demonstrate that a form of a discretionary quota has been introduced by the
present board of directors and the present dispensation in power by a backdoor
method by using the expression "with some exceptions like cabinet decisions" 20. At the 70th meeting of the board of directors of the company, matters
pertaining to cancellation of certain allotments, earmarking particular areas in
New Town for specific purposes and like business was transacted. The minutes
pertaining to such meeting reflect two items of business relevant for the present
purpose: 21. The petitioners criticise the business transacted in respect of the waiver of
late payment charges by referring to the recording in the minutes that possession
of plots had been made over to certain allottees under the erstwhile chairman's
quota. They question the rationale of waiving delayed payment charges and the
back-handed procedure adopted for regularisation of the some of the allotments
made under the erstwhile chairman's discretionary quota despite the previous
 decisions of the board. The rejected allottees submit that the cancellation of their
allotments cannot be upheld in the light of the minutes of the 70th board meeting
reflecting the abject favouritism shown to certain unnamed allottees under the
same chairman's discretionary quota by virtue of which these petitioners also
obtained their allotments. 22. The petitioners say that the flip-flop stands adopted by the company at its
three key board meetings held on August 19, 2011, October 22, 2011 and
December 1, 2012 are reflected in the relevant minutes. They suggest that if it is
the resolution adopted at the board meeting of the company held on December 1,
2012 which has to be regarded as the raison d'etre for the letters of cancellation
being issued to the allottees, it is evident that only the allotments "made on or
after 28-02-2011 ... both residential and non-residential ... for which approval
was given on 28-02-2011 by the then Chairman of the Board without
discrimination" ought to be cancelled. The petitioners assert that the stand taken
by the company, and endorsed by the State, at paragraph 20 of the
supplementary affidavit filed by the company is not supported by any board
decision of the company. Paragraph 20 of such supplementary affidavit states
that allotments of the following allottees, other than those specifically referred to
at paragraphs 15 and 17 thereof, had been cancelled by the company: 23. Since the business transacted at the several meetings of the board of
directors of the company has been noticed, some of the decisions taken at the
80th meeting of the board of directors of the company held on April 10, 2014 may
also be seen. The minutes of such meeting have been disclosed in the company's
supplementary affidavit and are of some relevance since hearing in at least two of
 the matters had commenced by then before it was discovered that affidavits had
not been completed in several matters. 24. At the meeting of April 10, 2014, a decision was taken on the allotment
policy and pricing policy. The break-even price for land in New Town in 2014-15
was assessed to be Rs.4.94 lakh per cottah and it was decided that allotments for
commercial use of land would be on leasehold basis for 99 years instead of on
freehold basis as had been followed earlier. Apart from the several other
resolutions adopted at such 80th board meeting of the company to invite
expressions of interest for land being allotted for particular purposes, the board
took up the two cases that had stuck out as sore thumbs in the matter of
cancellation of plots allotted under the chairman's discretionary quota: to Balaji
Enterprise and Alo Eye Care. When some of these petitions had been initially
heard about a year back, the petitioners referred constantly to the curious cases
of Balaji and Alo and the alacrity with which the company moved to ensure that
the deeds of conveyance in favour of such parties were executed within a short
time and possession of the land handed over before the company embarked on
the exercise of cancelling some of the allotments made under the chairman's
discretionary quota or the board of the company during the previous regime. 25. At the 80th board meeting of the company the last item of business
pertained to the allotments in favour of Balaji and Alo. The minutes record that
the deed of conveyance was registered in favour of Balaji on October 21, 2011
and possession of the 20-cottah plot made over on November 11, 2011. The
corresponding deed relating to the 8-cottah plot allotted to Alo was registered to
November 2, 2011 and possession thereof made over on July 16, 2012. 26. Some of the petitioners in the later matters make light of the State's
submission that documentation, registration and handing over possession of
plots are done at the lower echelons of the company and, as such, had been
completed in the two cases before notices cancelling the perverse allotments
made under the previous regime were issued. The petitioners insist that it is
 inconceivable that a momentous decision as that of cancellation of a category of
allotments would be taken by the board of the directors of the company but the
company would not be the vigilant to ensure that such decision was uniformly
implemented. Almost every petitioner, without exception, has submitted that the
curious cases of Balaji and Alo involve more than what meets the eye. 27. The petitioners assert that it is one thing to say that there was a possibility
of or actual abuse of the discretionary quota of the chairman of the company to
allot plots in New Town and, as a consequence, it was necessary to cancel all of
them; but quite another to suggest that only some of the beneficiaries of such
improper allotments may be proceeded against and the others ignored. They
point out that the State cannot arbitrarily select a few beneficiaries under a
scheme which is perceived to be illegal while not taking steps against others
similarly situated and thereby regularising the other improper allotments or
anointing them as valid and justified. The petitioners in the lead matter have
impleaded several private parities as respondents, including a commercial entity
and several police personnel and officers of the State in their individual
capacities. These petitioners reason that if the process of allotting plots in New
Town under the chairman's discretionary quota or by the board is found to be
illegal or improper, the consequence has to be borne by one and all or none at all.
They criticise the selective decision of annulment of some of the allotments and
say that the pointed action against certain entities is tainted with the same
arbitrariness on which the company founds its decision to perceive the
allotments made under the chairman's discretionary quota or the special quota of
the board of directors of the company to be unreasonable or irregular. 28. It is necessary at this stage to notice some of the orders passed on these
petitions in general, though the orders may have been recorded in some
particular matters. After affidavits were filed in two of the matters, WP No.
37304(W) of 2013 and WP No. 5158 (W) of 2013, it was felt that the relevant
documents pertaining to the minutes of certain board meetings of the company
 and the full list of allottees of land under the chairman's discretionary quota in
all categories ought to be before court. Accordingly, on April 3, 2014 an order
was passed on such two petitions for the managing director of the company to
disclose the full list of allottees of land under the chairman's discretionary quota
and the minutes of the 59th board meeting of the company by way of an affidavit.
The order also called for an unequivocal statement to be made in the affidavit "as
to whether all allottees who had been issued allotment letters on February 28,
2011 have been treated similarly or whether there is even a single instance of a
similarly-placed allottee being treated in a dissimilar manner." The company was
also required to indicate the mode of allotments of all plots in New Town,
"whether residential or non-residential and whether done through lottery or
auction or under the chairman's discretionary quota or otherwise." 29. At that stage, WP No. 37304(W) of 2013 had been taken up first since such
matter appeared ahead of the connected matters in the cause-list. However, it
was noticed, inter alia, by the order dated May 6, 2014 that affidavits had not
been filed in several of the other matters and it took the parties, primarily the
respondent authorities, till after February, 2015 to complete the affidavits in all
the matters. On February 5, 2015 an order was made on WP No. 37304(W) of
2013 recording that affidavits had not been completed in some of the matters and
adjourning the hearing till February 23, 2015 to enable the completion of the
pleadings. On the same day, an order was made on WP No. 2522 of 2014 which
later came to be regarded as the lead petition, requiring the State to ensure that
notices were issued to other similarly placed persons as the petitioners whose
allotments had not been cancelled, so that they could participate in the present
proceedings. Notices were also required to be published in newspapers in three
languages informing all allottees of land at Rajarhat under the chairman's
discretionary quota of the pendency of the present proceedings. 30. On February 23, 2015 it was discovered that affidavits in at least six of the
matters had not been filed by the company, whereupon the hearing was
 adjourned to March 10, 2015. On March 10, 2015 hearing commenced and the
order passed on the lead matter on such day recorded the State's submission
that the State endorsed the stand taken by the company in its affidavits and that
the State had no conflict of interest with the company. The State also confirmed
that it would not seek to file any independent affidavit as HIDCO had already
filed its affidavits-in-opposition and a supplementary affidavit in WP 5158(W) of
2013. On March 18, 2015 it was recorded that by consent of the appearing
parties, WP No. 2522(W) of 2014 had been chosen as the lead matter in the
clutch of 61 petitions pertaining to the cancellation of allotments of land in
Rajarhat. In course of the final hearing, two of the petitions challenging the
cancellation of allotments, WP No. 3788(W) of 2014 and WP 18529(W) of 2013,
were dismissed as not pressed. 31. Before reverting to the argument of hostile discrimination levelled by the
rejected allottees against the respondent authorities, it is necessary to see the
genesis of the company, its decision to introduce the discretionary quota for its
chairman to allot plots in New Town and what the company has culled out from
its records in its affidavits and the supplementary affidavit filed by its managing
director in WP No. 5158(W) of 2013 pursuant to the order dated April 3, 2014. 32. The present chief executive of the company is designated as its chairman-
cum-managing director and is a principal secretary to the State in the Urban
Development Department. According to the supplementary affidavit, the
company is a government company under Section 617 of the Companies Act,
1956, having been incorporated on April 26, 1999. The State holds 90.65% of the
paid-up capital in the company; 7.22 % is held by the West Bengal Housing
Board; and, 2.13 % thereof is held by the West Bengal Industrial Development
Corporation Ltd. Both the Housing Board and WBIDC are undertakings of the
State. 33. The principal objects of the company, as evident from its memorandum of
association, are to develop housing projects and related infrastructure in urban
 and rural areas in the State "and for that purpose to acquire and purchase, take
on lease, tenancy or in exchange, hire or by other means ... any property, land
or any building ... develop the same ... equip the same or any part thereof with
all or any amenities, infrastructure or conveniences ... and to deal with the same
in any manner whatsoever ... and to let or dispose of the same ... by outright sale
or by lease or on rental whether by private treaty or by auction or in any other
mode or disposition all or any integral part thereof to cater to the needs of people
belonging to different income groups." The third object in the company's
memorandum speaks of the company promoting "the formation of industrial
estates, commercial or residential, townships, colonies, cooperatives, housing
and/or industrial societies, companies, trusts or other association or
organisation for owing any of the properties movable or immovable." 34. There is nothing else of any great significance in the memorandum or
articles of association of the company except Article 77 of the articles that
entitles the State Government "to nominate directors on the Board of the
Company including the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the Managing Director." 35. According to its present chairman's supplementary affidavit, the company
was constituted with the object of developing New Town, which was initially
designed on 3075 hectare of land situated within 20 km of the central business
district of Kolkata and a few kilometres off the airport. The chairman of the
company narrates that with the idea of setting up New Town, the Housing
Department of the State decided to acquire land for the purpose of development
of the new township. The supplementary affidavit informs that it was initially
decided that the funds for acquisition of the land would be provided by the
Housing Board; but, after the incorporation of the company, it was the company
which provided funds for such acquisition. The land was made available to the
company in a phased manner beginning the year 2000 and a notification of
November 26, 2001 issued by the Department of Housing provided, inter alia, as
follows: Operatives / West Bengal Housing Board / Joint Venture Companies
 / Others Entrepreneurs etc. for residential / business / commercial
 / other purposes, as well as overall infrastructural development
 relating thereto. In doing so the WB HIDCO shall have the right to
 sell, lease, rent and dispose of those lands freely and without any
 restriction subject to the condition that the said disposal will be in
 accordance with and in pursuance of the stated development
 objectives of the New Town, Kolkata as laid out in the approved
 Master Land Use Plan (MLUP) / Land Use Development Control Plan
 (LUDCP) & other plans prepared under the relevant statutes." 36. As per the supplementary affidavit of the company, the board of directors
of the company met for the first time on May 21, 1999 whereat a chairman was
appointed. At the fourth meeting of the board of directors of the company held on
February 2, 2000 under the chairmanship of Shri Gautam Deb, the then
Minister-in-Charge, Housing and Public Health Engineering, the business
transacted in respect of "Disposal and Allotment policy of land" appears almost
as a footnote to the minutes. It is easy to miss the profundity of the following
short sentence as the real purport thereof is reflected in a note appended to the
minutes: 37. The relevant "Agenda Note" is quoted in the body of the supplementary
affidavit and appears at page 114 thereof as follows: 38. The petitioners refer to an order issued by the Housing Department of the
State on October 13, 2003 by which a committee was constituted with the
principal secretary in the Tourism Department as the chairperson "to examine
the applications for allotment of land in New Town against the discretionary
quota of the Chairman, W.B.HIDCO and to make necessary recommendations to
him for a final decision." The committee also comprised the managing director of
the company, the principal advisor to the chairman of the company, the general
manager (administration) of the company and the officer on special duty to the
 chairman of the company. The petitioners place the minutes of the 37th meeting
of the board of directors of the company held on December 29, 2006 whereat
item No. 17 records as follows: 39. On or about October 12, 2007 notices were released by the company in the
Ganashakti Bengali newspaper, which is the self-styled mouthpiece or organ of a
political party, and another little-known and much less read English newspaper,
 The Echo of India, inviting applications for allotment of non-residential plots in
New Town under the chairman's discretionary quota. The applications were
invited on plain paper and the last date for submission thereof was indicated to
be December 31, 2007. The notice referred to the applications being required to
conform to certain guidelines and informed the would-be applicants that the
guidelines could be inspected at the enquiry counter of the company's office at
the Salt Lake Stadium Complex or downloaded from the company's website. A
further notice was published on or about February 27, 2008, extending the last
date of submission of applications for allotment of commercial plots under the
chairman's discretionary quota to March 31, 2008. 40. The committee which was constituted by the Housing Department of the
State on October 13, 2003 apparently considered the applications received for
allotment of plots for commercial use under the chairman's discretionary quota.
The cryptic minutes of the meeting of such screening committee held on April 28,
2008 reveal the following decision: 41. To maintain the chronology relevant for the present purpose, it would
suffice to cut to February 28, 2011 for the next two frames in the saga. The 59th
board meeting of the company was held at 12 noon on February 28, 2011 under
the chairmanship of the minister with 13 other directors of the company and
several other officials as invitees along with the company secretary. The
allotments of land for diverse purposes, including in favour of several private
parties, were deliberated upon and decisions taken. A committee was constituted,
 comprising a director and the managing director of the company and the
additional secretary to the Health Department for considering the eight proposals
of private parties for allotment of land for setting up medical facilities in New
Town. Though the board meeting was held in the afternoon of February 28, 2011,
the business transacted under item No. 8 in the minutes reflects that the
"Committee met on 28th February itself in the evening ..." The minutes of the
meeting of the relevant committee have also been disclosed in the supplementary
affidavit and it is evident that such committee met at 6 pm. It is inconceivable
that the meeting of the relevant committee was held at 6 pm on February 28,
2011 but the decision of such committee could be taken note of at the board
meeting of the company which began at 12 noon on the same day. 42. Apart from the charge of hostile discrimination levelled by the rejected
allottees on the company, they reserve their severest criticism for the manner in
which the company went about cancelling the allotments. The rejected allottees
say that the notices of cancellation almost read the same in the three dozen or so
cancelled non-residential allotments before court and, apart from tweaking a line
here or altering a sentence there, the reasons proffered for cancelling the non-
residential allotments are vague, unsubstantiated and based on conjecture. The
petitioners submit that since both the State and the company are continuing
bodies, merely because there is a change of government it would not follow that
past, concluded transactions would be reopened or revisited or reviewed. At any
rate, the petitioners assert, the company ought to have invited the rejected
allottees to satisfy the company if it harboured any doubts as to the veracity of
their applications. The rejected allottees refer to the notices of cancellation of
their allotments and the allegations of impropriety levelled against them to
suggest that no reasonable person - far less a State or a government company -
could have taken the decision reflected therein or attributed motives or duplicity
to the allottees without affording them an opportunity of representing their
version or a hearing. Some of the petitioners have taken serious exception to the
use of the word "complicity" in the letters of cancellation. They say that apart
 from the enunciation of a series of unsubstantiated grounds for cancelling
allotments, the accusation as to impropriety on the part of the allottees was
uncalled for. The petitioners say that the near-identical letters of cancellation
demonstrate the complete non-application of mind to the matters in issue and a
predisposed mental make-up in going through with an arbitrary decision on
stereotyped reasons that bear no resemblance to the facts or the records. 43. The letter of cancellation issued by the company to the allottees in the lead
petition is set out: 44. The primary reason indicated in the similar letters in the other cases is
identical. Some of the sentences in the subsequent paragraphs have been altered
in the other letters of cancellation but the relevant letter issued to the allottees in
 the lead matter is substantially similar to those served on the others in course of
cancelling the allotment of non-residential plots. 45. The petitioners say that since the cancellation of the allotments made in
their favour has to stand or fall on the basis of the letters of cancellation, the
reasons indicated in the letters of cancellation do not constitute worthy grounds
for depriving the petitioners of the right that had vested in them upon allotments
being made in their favour by an undertaking of the State. 46. The petitioners submit that to the extent the letters of cancellation of
allotments are in excess of, or at variance with, the final decision taken by the
board of directors of the company at the meeting of December 1, 2012, the
cancellation has to be ignored and set aside. They say that the board's final
decision regarding cancellation of the allotments is reflected in the resolution
adopted under the 16th item of business at such meeting; and the same covers all
types of allotments made on or after February 28, 2011 for which approval was
given on February 28, 2011. In the light of such resolution, the petitioners
contend that the approval accorded to allotments prior to February 28, 2011
would not be covered thereby and almost all the petitions should succeed on
such score alone. 47. Article 14 of the Constitution has been invoked by the petitioners to
suggest that even though such provision cannot be seen to advocate a sense of
negative equality, the treatment of similarly placed persons in a dissimilar
manner is anathema to the underlying principle embodied therein. Most of the
petitioners, including those in the lead matter, assert that if they are not
permitted to retain their allotments on the ground that others similarly situated
had been allowed to enjoy their allotments, the least that can be done to ensure
the application of the principle of equality in Article 14 of the Constitution is to
cancel the allotments made in favour of such others. 48. The State and the company raise serious questions as to the propriety of
the decision of the screening committee pertaining to the non-residential
applications and the abject non-application of mind evident from the minutes of
the meeting of such committee held on April 28, 2008. They suggest that from
the very mooting of the chairman's discretionary quota to the manner of inviting
applications thereunder to the perfunctory assessment of the applications by this
screening committee and the indiscriminate approval accorded by the then
chairman, the entire exercise reeks of arbitrariness, irrationality and crass
perversity. The State and the company submit that whether or not this State has
any industry or this State lacks employment opportunities, the allotment of
government land for commercial use could not have been made pursuant to an
advertisement issued in a newspaper run by the principal political party in power
and another which may have had no meaningful readership at all. The State
exhorts that if the intention was to issue plots in New Town for commercial use to
encourage business enterprises or rejuvenate the local economy, the company
ought to have advertised more openly and in a more legitimate manner to attract
such players who could have made a difference and helped kick-start the
floundering economy in this State. The State laments that the manner in which
the company went about inviting applications and doling out allotments for
commercial purpose smacks of nepotism and like unsavoury practice. The
respondent authorities insinuate that the procedure adopted is so opposed to
public policy that it merely requires to be narrated and the case rested. 49. The State and the company submit in unison that when the records came
to the notice of the present directors of the company, several alleged applications
made by the allottees were not on record. The company says that though several
of the petitions rely on received copies of the applications made by the petitioners
for allotment of land under the chairman's discretionary quota, the purported
rubber stamp apparently acknowledging the receipt thereof is not the one
available with the company. They suggest that some applications may have been
ante-dated or not made at all; yet the allotments awarded on extraneous
 considerations under the then chairman's discretionary quota. The State and the
company make out that upon going through the records available in the
company, the present directors, who are nominees of the State government,
discovered the irregular and improper allotment of plots made under the
chairman's discretionary quota without reference to the guidelines and without
there being any material to demonstrate the application of the mind to any
request for allotment. The company says that it was faced with a Hobson's choice
of ignoring the colossal irregularity or being required to annul all the allotments
made arbitrarily, whether under the chairman's discretionary quota or by the
board, irrespective of possession being made over in certain cases and
construction also being fully or substantially completed on the plots. 50. The State and the company say that in such circumstances the company
was constrained to try and ensure that the further mischief set afoot by the
whimsical allotment of plots under the chairman's discretionary quota or by the
previous board was immediately arrested. The company maintains that it
decided to make a distinction between residential plots and non-residential plots
on its perception that residential plots would be less amenable to continuous
commercial exploitation. The company submits that it decided to cancel the
allotments made under the chairman's discretionary quota or by the previous
board if the letters of intimation pertaining to residential plots were issued on or
after February 28, 2011 and if the letters of firm allotment in respect of non-
residential plots were issued after February 28, 2011. 51. The company has made a distinction between the two generic forms of the
initial letters that it addressed to all allottees of land in New Town. Typically, and
as is evident from the records and all the petitions, an initial letter of intimation
would be issued by the company to the applicants informing the applicants that
an approval had been accorded for allotment of a plot to the applicants whether
for residential or for a specified commercial purpose. There appears to have been
a printed format of such letters (or a soft format thereof) which had blanks to be
 filled up by inserting the relevant details. It is such letters of in-principle
acceptance of the applications that the company refers to as the letters of
intimation, though this distinction between a letter of intimation and a firm letter
of allotment attempted to be made by the company at the hearing is at variance
with how the board of directors of the company considered the matter as evident
from the minutes of the board meetings. As to the firm letters of allotment, the
company says that such letter would be the one informing the applicant of the
particular plot allotted to the applicant, the price of the land and the schedule of
payments. 52. The petitioners have referred to several judgments in support of the various
contentions raised by them. They first rely on a judgment reported at (1999) 1
Cal LT (HC) 220 ( Indian Oil Corporation v. Ujjal Chowdhury ) for the proposition
that when a process has started prior to any election being announced and the
model code of conduct coming into effect, the continuation or completion of such
process would not be in violation of the model code. In that case, an
advertisement was issued in October, 1995 inviting applications for selection of
LPG distributors. Upon applications being received interviews were conducted,
but prior to the issuance of the letter of intent to the writ petitioners the Election
Commission announced the schedule for the General Elections to the 11th Lok
Sabha on March 20, 1996. The letter of intent issued to the petitioners was
subsequently revoked as it had been issued when the model code of conduct was
in operation. The challenge launched by the writ petitioners to such revocation
succeeded before a single Bench. In the appeal, the Judges differed and a
reference was accordingly made under Clause 36 of the Letters Patent to a referee
Judge. It was held in such reference that since applications had been invited and
the process for selection had been set into motion and the interviews held prior to
the model code of conduct coming into force, the letter of intent issued to the
distributors after the model code came into effect could not be annulled only on
such ground. The judgment emphasises that the purpose of the model code is to
ensure that the election is held in a fair and free atmosphere and that the party
 in power does not exploit its official position by doling out patronage to the
electorate so as to influence the minds of the voters while exercising their
franchise. 53. An unreported judgment delivered on February 10, 2014 in WP No. 7797
(W) of 2012 ( Asutosh Ghosh v. State of West Bengal ) by a single Bench of this
court has been cited by the petitioners for the proposition that unless an
authority vested with the jurisdiction to take a decision is clothed with the power
to review the decision, the original decision cannot be revisited. The judgment
was rendered in the context of a foreign liquor off-shop license granted to the writ
petitioners under the Bengal Exercise Act, 1909 and the relevant rules framed
thereunder. The provisions recognise the district magistrate to be the ex-officio
collector in the district and, as such, the licensing authority. In that case a
licence was issued to the writ petitioners in November, 2005 and the petitioner
started and operated the business till the middle of 2011 when complaints
against the location of the shop were made to the excise authorities. The district
magistrate as the collector undertook the exercise of making re-measurements to
ascertain whether the licence originally issued to the petitioner was in
accordance with the mandatory provision in such regard. The petitioner
questioned the authority of the collector to look into the complaint after a lapse of
six years from the issuance of the licence. The collector disregarded such
objection and passed an order for closing down the off-shop. The primary ground
urged in challenging the collector's decision in this court was that such official
assumed a jurisdiction which he did not possess. The court referred to Section 8 of the parent statute that governs matters relating to "Control, Appeal and
Revision", and held that it "is settled law that unless the power of review is
conferred by statute on an administrative authority, it has no inherent power of
review." 54. The proposition is inapposite in the present context. Apart from the fact
that in every case it cannot be said that a previous wrong by an administrative
 authority cannot be righted however opposed to public interest or public policy
the original decision may have been , in that case , the issuance of the licence had
been acted upon and the liquor shop was functional for more than six years
before the perceived erroneous issuance of the licence was sought to be corrected
at the behest of some neighbours. Indeed, one of the aspects dwelt on in such
unreported judgment was of the licensee having continued business in
accordance with the terms of the licence for a substantial period of time. Several
Supreme Court judgments noticed later recognise the power of an administrative
authority to cancel a process which is opposed to public interest. 55. The seven-Judge decision in the first Judges' case reported at 1981 (Supp)
SCC 87 ( S.P. Gupta v. Union of India ) has been placed by the petitioners in the
lead matter for the dilution therein at paragraph 20 of the report of the strict rule
of locus standi and the acknowledgment therein of "public interest litigation" -
litigation undertaken for the purpose of redressing public injury, enforcing public
duty, protecting social, collective, 'diffused' rights and interests or vindicating
public interest ... (by) any citizen who is acting bona fide and who has sufficient
interest ..." The petitioners in the lead matter say that they have no right to
institute any public interest litigation in respect of the allotments made in similar
circumstances to other allottees which have not been cancelled by the
respondent authorities. Such petitioners claim that since they have a direct
interest in the matter of allotment of plots in New Town or the cancellation of
such allotments, their only chance to ensure that the State under the present
regime lives up to the command of Article 14 of the Constitution is to assert the
same and attain the objective in the present proceedings and not by way of any
future or further public interest litigation. 56. There is a semblance of substance in what the petitioners in the lead
matter submit on such count. By virtue of the business allocated to the Judges of
this court by the Chief Justice, public interest litigation in this court is taken up
by a Division Bench. There is also a view expressed in a Division Bench judgment
 [ Sohan Lal Baid v. State of West Bengal (AIR 1990 Cal 160)] that any matter
taken by any Bench which does not fall within the business specifically allotted
to such Bench or has not been otherwise expressly assigned to it, would be an
act inherently lacking in jurisdiction. As a consequence, the operation of the
principles as established by judicial pronouncement may preclude the petitioners
from questioning the propriety of the allotments made in similar circumstances
in favour of persons whose allotments have not been cancelled pursuant to the
drive by which the allotments in most of the present cases have been annulled. 57. The more important aspect of S.P. Gupta, however, is in its recognition of
public interest being the touchstone on which administrative decision ought to be
founded. 58. Further judgments have been brought by the other petitioners in support
of their challenge to the annulment of the allotment of plots made in their favour.
A decision reported at (1988) 4 SCC 534 ( Bharat Singh v. State of Haryana ) has
been placed for the recognition therein at paragraph 13 of the report that there is
a distinction between pleadings governed by the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908
and petitions or affidavits filed in proceedings under Article 226 of the
Constitution. The passage placed from the relevant paragraph provides as
follows: 59. The petitioners rely on the judgment to suggest that to the extent the State
and the company have criticised the system of allotment of plots in New Town in
excess of what appears in the affidavits filed by the company, the same should
not be countenanced. They also rely on the proposition to the extent that the
distinction made in paragraph 20 of the supplementary affidavit is at variance
with the resolutions passed at the meetings of the board of directors of the
company. 60. On similar lines, the petitioners refer to a judgment reported at (1979) 3
SCC 371 ( Shankar Chakravarti v. Britannia Biscuit Co. Ltd ) for the proposition at
paragraph 32 of the report that an allegation which is not pleaded, even if there
is any evidence in support of it, cannot be examined because the other side has
no notice of it and, if entertained, it would amount to granting an unfair
advantage to the first party. Thus, the petitioners contend, the case made out by
the State and the company herein, that the allotment of plots made in New Town - whether in-principle allotments or firm allotments - were illegal or improper,
should not be accepted as the decision-making process culminating in such
allotments being made has not been appropriately or adequately questioned in
the company's affidavits. The petitioners refer to another judgment reported at
(2000) 2 SCC 367 ( Murray & Co. v. Ashok Kr. Newatia ) for the principle that a
false statement made in an affidavit filed in court would amount to contempt of
court as it tantamounts to obstruction of justice. 61. On the aspect that only the reasons contained in the letters issued for
cancellation of the allotments can be seen in support of the decision embodied
therein, the petitioners refer to the oft-quoted Constitution Bench judgment
reported at (1978) 1 SCC 405 ( Mohinder Singh Gill v. The Chief Election
Commissioner, New Delhi ) for the opinion therein that when a statutory
functionary makes an order based on certain grounds, the validity of such order
"must be judged by the reasons so mentioned and cannot be supplemented by
fresh reasons in the shape of affidavits or otherwise." The petitioners maintain
 that since the primary ground asserted in the impugned letters of cancellation -
that all the allotments were in violation of the model code of conduct - is frivolous
and untenable, such notices are liable to be quashed as the other grounds
contained therein are vague, unsubstantiated and stereotyped without making
any distinction between one allottee and the other. 62. The petitioners also cite the famous judgment of cancellation of petrol
pump dealerships reported at (1996) 6 SCC 530 ( Common Cause, A Registered
Society v. Union of India ). Though the petitioners place paragraph 25 of the report
to criticise the impugned cancellation of allotments in their favour as they claim
to have been picked up arbitrarily and in a discriminatory manner, the relevant
passage is of significance in the backdrop of the primary consideration in the
present proceedings: 63. Since the celebrated judgment, which deals with misfeasance in public
office, malicious abuse of power and deliberate mal-administration, has been
cited by the petitioners, the most important message in such judgment must be
noticed: that "in the matter of grant of largesses including award of jobs,
contracts, quotas and licences, the Government must act in fair and just manner
and any arbitrary distribution of wealth would violate the law of the land." The
Supreme Court had no hesitation in naming the concerned minister in that
matter and holding that he had "acted in utter violation of the law laid down by this Court and has also infracted Article 14 of the Constitution of India ...
betrayed the trust reposed in him ..." The court also observed that with more
discretionary powers in the field of distribution of government wealth in various
forms, if a public servant abuses his office by an act of omission or commission,
and the consequence of that is injury to an individual or loss of public property,
an action may be maintained against such public servant. The judgment in that
 case and the observation against the concerned minister were based on the
records pertaining to the applications made for allotment of petrol pumps and file
notings briefly indicating the reasons in support of the allotments. Paragraph 20
of the report is relevant in the larger context of the present matter: 64. One of the petitioners has referred to the observation made on
arbitrariness in exercising discretionary power by a public servant in the
judgment reported at (2003) 2 SCC 673 ( Onkar Lal Bajaj v. Union of India ). As in
the case of Capt. Satish Sharma, a news article in The Indian Express newspaper
led to the complaint before the court regarding allotment of retail outlets for
petroleum products on arbitrary, politically motivated and extraneous
considerations. The news article attributed political patronage in the grant of
dealership and distributorship. As a result of the controversy and the question
being raised in the Parliament in such regard which resulted in proceedings in
one of the houses to be stalled, the Prime Minister reviewed the allotment of
petrol pumps, LPG gas and kerosene agencies by public sector oil companies on
August 5, 2002 and directed the relevant ministry to initiate steps to cancel all
allotments made with effect from January, 2000 till then. The effect of such
decision was the cancellation of all merit panels numbering 3760 that had been
prepared by district selection boards after considering thousands of applications
and interviewing many of them. All those selected by the district selection boards,
except 214, had been issued letters of intent and in 2248 cases agreements had
been executed between the oil companies and the dealers or distributors. Several
petitions were filed in various High Courts challenging the legality of the decision
to cancel the allotments. Such petitions were transferred by the Supreme Court
to itself and the matter decided by the judgment cited. 65. The Supreme Court noticed that the matter had been triggered off by a
media expose. The issues relevant for consideration were framed in the form of
the following questions at paragraph 20 of the report: 66. The petitioner in WP 4574(W) of 2012, who has relied on such judgment,
places particular emphasis on paragraph 27 of the report for the proposition that
unequals cannot be clubbed together; on paragraph 35 of the report for the
principle that "public interest" or "probity in governance" cannot be put in a
straitjacket; on paragraph 36 thereof for the observation that the "role model for
governance and decision taken thereof should manifest equity, fair play and
justice"; and, on paragraph 45 for the finding that resorting to cancellation of all
allotments was worse than the problem as the "Cure was worse than the
disease." 67. The Supreme Court noticed the case of Capt. Satish Sharma and held that
nothing tangible was brought to its notice that warranted the cancellation of all
the allotments merely because a controversy had arisen. Before quashing the
impugned decision and setting up a committee to scrutinise the 413 cases which
had been specifically reported in the newspaper as tainted, the court enunciated
the following legal position at paragraph 45 of the report: 68. The petitioners in WP 2565(W) of 2014 have relied on a judgment reported
at (2011) 9 SCC 286 ( Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation Federation
v. B. Narasimha Reddy ) for the observation therein at paragraph 40 of the report
that upon the change of a government, it is the duty of the new regime to carry
on the unfinished job of the previous government. However, as would be evident
from the exception recognised in the general operation of such rule in the same
paragraph of the report, the judgment may not further the petitioners' cause in
the present proceedings: 69. The petitioners in WP No. 21411(W) of 2013 refer to a judgment reported at
(2011) 3 SCC 464 ( Pragati Mahila Mandal, Nanded v. Municipal Council, Nanded ).
A charitable trust made a request to the relevant municipal council for allotment
of a plot of land for starting a school to provide education, especially for girls. An
allotment was made in the year 1984 on a 60-year lease. A petition was filed
before the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court by way of public interest
litigation, challenging the allotment. The petitioner died during the pendency of
the matter and advocate formerly appearing for the petitioner was appointed
amicus curiae since the court had already taken cognisance of the matter
complained of. The High Court set aside the allotment. In the appeal arising out
of the special leave petition filed before the Supreme Court, such court noticed
that one of the respondents to the writ petition had filed an independent suit
against the allottee and failed. The special leave petition from the order
dismissing the relevant suit had also been withdrawn. On the ground that the
legality of the allotment had been duly pronounced upon by the High Court,
albeit in a different matter, and the further grounds that the project was for a
noble cause and the authorities had the power to lease out government land for
educational purposes, the Supreme Court set aside the High Court order and
upheld the allotment. 70. The petitioners in WP 3132(W) of 2012 have relied on a judgment reported
at (2011) 8 SCC 737 (State of Tamil Nadu v. K. Shyam Sunder) for the proposition
that a change of the political party in government would not imply that decisions
taken by the previous government ought to be reversed. The issue that arose
before the Supreme Court is evident from paragraph 16 of the report: that "the
law does not permit change of policies merely because of another political party
 with a different political philosophy comes in power ... " The judgment quoted
from Onkar Lal Bajaj and another decision to consider the circumstances when a
"Government should revoke a decision taken by an earlier Government." It
concluded, at paragraph 35 of the report, "that unless it is found that act done
by the authority earlier in existence either contrary to statuary provision, is
unreasonable, or is against public interest, the State should not change its stand
merely because the other political party has come into power." 71. Another judgment reported at (2007) 9 SCC 593 ( Popcorn Entertainment v.
City Industrial Development Corporation ) has been brought by the petitioners in
WP 7752(W) of 2012 for the proposition that while developing a township the
objective of the planning authorities is not to earn money but to provide a
systematic and all-round development of the area. In that case, the allotment of a
plot of land in favour of the appellant was cancelled on the ground that the
allotment was opposed to public policy and was made without issuance of any
tender. The appellant-allottee questioned the cancellation on the ground that it
had been singled out for such treatment though hundreds of allotments made
without issuance of tender were allowed to remain. The Supreme Court read the
land policy of the development authority to permit it to consider individual
applications without inviting tenders. In course of setting aside the judgment of
the Bombay High Court dismissing the writ petition on the ground that the
appellant had an equally efficacious remedy of filing a civil suit, the Supreme
Court observed, at paragraph 48 of the report, as follows: 72. The petitioners in WP 7084(W) of 2012 have placed a judgment reported at
(1988) 1 SCC 86 ( Delhi Cloth & General Mills Ltd v. Union of India ) to suggest that
the doctrine of promissory estoppel would apply in this case. Paragraph 18 of the
 report has been placed where it was observed that the principle of promissory
estoppel is now more refined than it was at its formative stage: it is no longer
necessary for a party to invoke such principle only if he suffered 'detriment' or
'prejudice'; all that is now required is that the party asserting the estoppel must
have acted upon the assurance given to him. The doctrine of promissory estoppel
was, however, found not to be applicable in that case and it was further
observed, at paragraph 25 of the report, that the doctrine "cannot be used to
compel the public bodies or the government to carry out the representation or
promise which is contrary to law or which is outside their authority or power."
The court went on to add that such estoppel stems from the equitable doctrine
and, as such, "cannot be invoked if it is found to be inequitable or unjust in its
enforcement". 73. The petitioners in WP 21310(W) of 2011 have relied on the judgments
reported at (1974) 1 SCC 345 ( Pooran Mal v. The Director of Inspection ) and (1996)
2 SCC 37 (State of H.P. v. Prithi Chand) on the aspect of copies of the company's
records being available with some or most of the petitioners, particularly the
rejected allottees of non-residential plots in New Town. The celebrated
Constitution Bench judgment in Pooran Mal dealt with the aspect of evidence that
is unearthed in course of an illegal exercise. The Supreme Court quoted with
approval a Privy Council judgment that in considering whether evidence is
admissible, the only test to be applied is whether it is relevant to the matters in
issue; and, if it is admissible, the court should not be concerned with how it was
obtained. In Prithi Chand the judgment in Pooran Mal was noticed and it was
reiterated that merely because the evidence was obtained in course of an illegal
search and seizure operation, such evidence could not be discarded. It is
necessary to record the circumstances in which these two judgments came to be
cited by the relevant petitioners. As noticed earlier, several of the petitioners,
particularly the allottees of non-residential plots, have appended copies of the
company's documents that they would not be expected to be in possession of.
Upon the court quizzing some of the petitioners as to how they could lay their
 hands on photocopies of the company's records, they have come up with Pooran
Mal as the answer. However, the Constitution Bench judgment is only an
authority for the proposition that relevant material should not be shunned
because it may have been discovered in an irregular or illegal manner. It does not
follow that when private parities are found to be in possession of copies of key
records of a government body, an adverse inference as to their nexus with those
in control of the body may not be drawn upon a suitable explanation not being
furnished. 74. The petitioners in WP 224(W) of 2014 have referred to two judgments for
the proposition that a change of the political dispensation in the government
should not affect the decisions taken by the previous regime. The judgment
reported at (2002) 2 SCC 507 ( State of Haryana v. State of Punjab ) was rendered
in a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution by which Haryana wanted the
concluded agreements with Punjab pertaining to the Sutlej-Yamuna link canal
project to be enforced. It was in course of deciding such issue that the Supreme
Court observed that "decisions taken at the governmental level should not be so
easily nullified by a change of Government and by some other political party
assuming power, particularly when such a decision affects some other States and
the interest of the nation as a whole." 75. In the decision reported at (2014) 2 SCC 401 ( J. Jayalalithaa v. The State of
Karnataka ) the Supreme Court repeated the observation in K. Shyam Sunder
(supra) that "unless it is found that the act done by the authority earlier is either
contrary to the statutory provisions or unreasonable, or is against public
interest, the State should not change its stand merely because the other political
party has come into power." 76. Another judgment reported at (2014) 13 SCC 692 ( PRP Exports v. State of
Tamil Nadu ) has been brought by the same petitioner for the proposition that in a
case where larger public interest is involved, the events subsequent to the
 institution of the petition could be looked into. The Supeme Court quoted the
following passage from a judgment reported at (2010) 6 SCC 614 (All India
Recruitment Board v. K. Shyam Kumar) to distinguish the dictum in Mohinder
Singh Gill (supra): 77. The petitioner in WP 13996(W) of 2013 has relied on a judgment reported
at (2014) 4 SCC 186 ( S.V.A. Steel Re-rolling Mills Ltd v. State of Kerala ) for the
proposition that it would be unfair and immoral on the part of the State not to
act as per its promise. In that case the relevant State government framed a policy
to encourage the setting-up of new manufacturing units in the State by declaring
to give continuous electricity supply at a particular rate to certain new units. In
pursuance of such policy, the appellants before the Supreme Court established
manufacturing units in the State. The subsequent conduct of the State
amounted to the promise being breached. It was in such context that the
Supreme Court made the following observation at paragraph 30 of the report,
which may not be apposite in the present situation: 78. The petitioner in WP 27353(W) of 2013 has referred to several judgments
as to the desirability of oral instructions in administrative matters. According to
such petitioner, the doctrine of dictation has no place in administrative law and if
the State or any functionary requires a public body to do a certain thing, the
instructions must be reduced in writing. The first of the judgments, reported at
(2006) 7 SCC 172 ( State Inspector of Police v. Surya Sankaram Karri ), pertained to
the sanction for prosecution granted to investigate into an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . At paragraph 16 of the report, it was held
that the issuance of an oral direction was not contemplated under the relevant
statute and, in such light, it was observed that the concept of issuing an oral
direction "is unknown in administrative law" and that statutory functionaries are
enjoined with a duty to pass written orders. Section 17 of the Prevention of
Corruption Act with its non obstante clause permits an investigation of
misconduct by a public servant by police officers of the ranks specified therein.
The second proviso to the Section mandates that investigation in certain cases
not be conducted without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a
superintendent. It was such statutory condition that had not been complied in
that case which was admitted by the investigating officer to the extent that he
had not received any authorisation letter but had been orally authorised to
conduct the investigation. It was the mandate of the statute that prompted the
observation at paragraph 16 of the report, which has been sought to be cited
completely out of context in the present case. 79. Another judgment, reported at (2010) 11 SCC 374 ( MRF Ltd v. Manohar
Parrikar ), has been brought for the discussion at paragraph 72 of the report that
the Rules of Business framed to fulfill the mandate of Articles 154 , 163 and 166 of the Constitution are mandatory and not directory. The decision in that case involved the abandonment of revenue pursuant to a notification issued by the
government of Goa for grant of rebate to industrial consumers of electricity in the
State. The Supreme Court noticed that the Rules of Business of the State
government mandated that any proposal which was likely to be converted into a
 decision of the State government involving the abandonment of revenue for which
there was no provision in the Appropriation Act had to be processed after the
concurrence of the Finance Department and the approval of the council of
ministers. It was in such context that the Supreme Court held that the decision
of the State government ought to reflect the collective wisdom of the council of
ministers or at least of the chief minister who heads the council. The principle
has no manner of application in the present case; at any rate, except to the
chagrin of the petitioners herein. 80. Three judgments have been cited by the petitioners in WP 2569(W) of 2014. In the judgment reported at (2004) 1 SCC 139 ( State of Orissa v. Mangalam
Timber Products Ltd ), a plea was taken by the government of Orissa that since
there was no contract in writing was entered into with the writ petitioners, the
principle of promissory estoppel would not apply. The Supreme Court held that
for "the applicability of the principle of estoppel it is not necessary that there
must be a contract in writing entered into between the parties" and that when a
representation was held out by the State and a party had acted thereupon, the
State could not be permitted to resile from its position. There is no doubt that a
State or other authority answering to that description under Article 12 of the
Constitution has to be held responsible for its decisions as communicated to any
person. Equally, if the State annuls its previous decision in public interest or on
the ground that the initial decision was opposed to public policy, the doctrine of
promissory estoppel may have to yield to larger public interest. In support of the
petitioners' contention that the real issue in the present proceedings is the
impugned decision of cancellation of the allotments and not the manner in which
the allotments were made, they refer to a recent judgment reported at (2015) 2
SCC 796 ( Census Commissioner v. R. Krishnamurthy ) where the Supreme Court
advocated the exercise of judicial restraint in matters pertaining to policy. The
judgment quotes revered jurists as Felix Frankfurter and Benjamin N. Cardozo to
hold that it is not within the domain of the courts "to embark upon an enquiry as
to whether a particular public policy is wise and acceptable or whether a better
 policy could be evolved" since the court may only interfere if the policy framed is
absolutely capricious or not informed by reasons or totally arbitrary or offending
the basic requirements of Article 14 of the Constitution. The judgment may have
been apposite if there was a policy that was discernible in the matter of allotment
of plots in New Town under the erstwhile chairman's discretionary quota. The
other judgment cited by the petitioners in WP 2569(W) of 2014 reported at (2015)
4 SCC 245 ( Delhi State Industrial Development Corporation Limited v. Ashok
Kumar Madan ), where the Supreme Court considered the propriety of the
cancellation of the allotment of a plot by a government body on the ground of
non-payment. The writ petitioner before the High Court was running a
commercial establishment in his residential premises and, pursuant to a
direction of the Supreme Court for relocation of businees carried on in residential
properties, he applied for the allotment of a plot and made a deposit therefor. A
plot was allotted to the writ petitioner, but he failed to make the payment therefor
within the time stipulated. Following the belated final payment made for the plot,
the government body issued a communication to the writ petitioner seeking
certain documents to facilitate possession of the plot being made over to him.
However, before the possession was made over, the allotment was cancelled and
the amount paid was refunded with interest. The petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution was allowed by a single Bench on the ground that the government
body had not corrected its mistake and had remained silent for four years after
receiving the entire consideration. The order also noticed that the writ petitioner
had paid interest on the delayed payment. The appeal was dismissed, resulting in
the government body apporaching the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court
upheld the impugned order on the ground that the reasons cited by the
government body in cancelling the allotment, were, in the circumstances, not
satisfactory and had been rejected by two courts. Though the petitioners in this
case seek to rely on the ratio in such judgment in support of their contention
that the reason proferred for cancelling their allotment is precious, the judgment
may not be of any relevance in the context of the large-scale irregularities in the
matter of allotment of plots under the chairman's discretionary quota. 81. The State and the company have also relied on a number of authorities to
justify the cancellation of the allotment of certain plots in Rajarhat on the ground
that the allotments had been improperly made. 82. A judgment pertaining to the construction of a high-end hotel in this city,
reported at (1987) 2 SCC 295 ( Sachidanand Pandey v. State of West Bengal ), has
been referred to by the respondent authorities for the proposition therein that
public interest must be the paramount consideration in dealing with State or
public property. Though the judgment is more famous for it quoting the profound
reply of the wise Indian Chief of Seattle to the offer of the Great Chief in
Washington to buy Indian land, paragraph 40 of the report has been placed for
the present purpose: 83. Another judgment reported at (1980) 4 SCC 1 ( Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy
v. State of Jammu and Kashmir ) has been placed by the State for the proposition
that when governmental action is found to be wanting in reasonableness or
lacking in public interest, it would be liable to struck down as invalid. The State
says that when the records pertaining to the allotment of plots in New Town,
whether under the erstwhile chairman's discretionary quota or by the board of
directors of the company, came to the notice of the present board of directors of
 the company, the arbitrary manner in which the discretion was exercised without
assigning any reasons and on no discernable basis, obliged the company to undo
the wrong to the extent that the transactions had not been concluded or
possession of the plots made over to the unworthy allottees. 84. The respondent authorities have relied on paragraph 10 of the report where
the celebrated case of Ramana Dayaram Shetty [(1979) 3 SCC 489] was noticed
that "(s)ome interests in government largess, formerly regarded as privileges,
have been recognised as rights, while others have been given legal protection not
only by forging procedural safeguards but also by confining, structuring and
checking government discretion in the matter of grant of such largess." The
Supreme Court observed that the discretion of the government in such cases was
not unlimited and the government could not confer benefits "in its arbitrary
discretion or at its sweet will or on such terms as it chooses in its absolute
discretion." The court reminded that there were two limitations imposed by law
which structured and controlled the discretion of the government in such regard: 85. It went on to say that unlike a private individual, the State could not act as
it pleased in the matter of distributing largesse; that while a private individual
would ordinarily be guided by economic considerations of self-gain and he may
also act contrary to his self-interest, but the government would not be "free to act
as it likes in granting largess such as awarding a contract or selling or leasing
out its property". The constitutional power conferred on the government, the
judgment instructs, cannot not be exercised by it arbitrarily or capriciously or in
an unprincipled manner; it has to be exercised for the public good as every
activity of the government has a public element to it and it must, therefore, be
informed with reasons and guided by public interest. The court proceeded to
recount the tests of reasonableness in its famous previous judgments as V. G.
 Row [(1952) SCR 597], Maneka Gandhi [(1978) 1 SCC 248], and E. P. Royappa
[(1974) 4 SCC 3] to express the following view at paragraph 14 of the report: 86. A more recent decision, reported at (2011) 5 SCC 29 ( Akhil Bhartiya
Upbhokta Congress v. State of Madhya Pradesh ), has been carried by the
company for the acknowledgement therein that no functionary of the State or
public authority has an absolute or unfettered discretion as the "very idea of
unfettered discretion is totally incompatible with the doctrine of equality
enshrined in the Constitution and is an antithesis to the concept of the rule of
law." The matter that fell for consideration in that case was the allotment of a 20-
acre piece of land near Bhopal to a trust without any advertisement and without
inviting other similar organisations to participate in the process of allotment. A
public-spirited body challenged the allotment of land before the Madhya Pradesh
High Court, which summarily rejected the writ petition by observing that the land
belonged to the government and it was for the government to decide whom to
allot the same as per its policy and no case of violation of any legal or
constitutional right was made out by the petitioner. Affidavits on the issue were
filed for the first time before the Supreme Court. Before annulling the allotment,
the Supreme Court referred to American, English and Indian decisions to
appreciate the maxims: "Where discretion is absolute, man has always suffered",
"Rule of law may be said to be the sworn enemy of caprice" and "Discretion
means sound discretion guided by law ... not by humour; it must not be
arbitrary, vague and fanciful." The judgment noticed Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy
and the case of Capt. Satish Sharma to hold that every action of the State or its
 agencies or instrumentalities to give largesse or confer benefit must be founded
on a sound, transparent, discernible and well-defined policy, which ought to be
made known to the public by providing for adequate publicity; that "distribution
of largesse like allotment of land, grant of quota, permit licence, etc. by the State
and its agencies/instrumentalities should always be done in a fair and equitable
manner and the element of favouritism or nepotism shall not influence the
exercise of discretion ..." 87. The respondent authorities refer to another judgment pertaining to
allotment of land to a famous personality reported at (2011) 6 SCC 125
( Humanity v. State of West Bengal ). A distinguished son of the soil had , in that
case , been made a one-off allotment of a plot in Salt Lake in 2009. Offers were
invited by an advertisement which earmarked the relevant plot for setting up an
integrated school from the primary level to the higher secondary level with extra-
curricular activities. The allottee applied pursuant to the advertisement and
succeeded. About a year after obtaining possession of the plot, the allottee wrote
to the concerned minister that the plot was not big enough to set up a school
with ICSE affiliation. The allottee expressed a desire to surrender the plot in
exchange for a bigger one. Upon receipt of such letter, the concerned department
allotted a different but bigger plot to the allottee. It was such subsequent
allotment which was challenged by way of public interest litigation. This court
repelled the challenge and such order was carried to the Supreme Court. The
Supreme Court allowed the appeal by cancelling the allotment after observing
that it "is axiomatic that in order to achieve a bona fide end, the means must also
justify the end." 88. Three recent judgments of the Supreme Court concerning matters that
have rocked the country have been relied upon by the company in support of its
decision to cancel the allotments that it found had been improperly made and
where the transactions had not been concluded. The judgments in the 2G
 Spectrum case, the Presidential reference arising from the 2G Spectrum case and
the Coal-blocks Allocation case have been cited by the company. 89. In the 2G Spectrum case, reported at (2012) 3 SCC 1 (Centre for Public
Interest Litigation v. Union of India ), the court held that the State was the trustee
of the people and it could allocate natural resources only in public interest
through a fair and transparent distribution process affording equal opportunity
to all interested parties. The procedure adopted by the Department of
Telecommunication in the grant of unified access service licence with 2G
spectrum was questioned before the court on the ground that it was arbitrary,
illegal and in derogation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The company in the
present case relies on paragraph 89 of the report that speaks of distribution of
natural resources to be guided by constitutional principles, including the
doctrine of equality and larger public good, and the criticism of the first-cum-
first-served policy and recognition of public auction as the most desirable process
for distribution of natural resources in paragraphs 94 and 96 of the report. 90. Following the observation in the 2G Spectrum case that the distribution of
natural resources should, preferably, be by public auction, a Presidential
reference was made under Article 143 (1) of the Constitution to the Supreme
Court. The opinion is reported at (2012) 10 SCC 1 (Natural Resources Allocation,
In Re, Special Reference No. 1 of 2012). The company has placed copiously from
the lead judgment, particularly the reference to Article 39 (b) of the Constitution
that mandates that the ownership and control of material resources of the
community are so distributed as best to sub-serve the common good. The
Constitution Bench concluded that auction may not be the only manner by
which natural resources may be distributed by the State. Paragraph 135 of the
report appears to summarise the legal position: 91. In the Coal-blocks Allocation case, reported at (2014) 9 SCC 516 ( Manohar
Lal Sharma v. Principal Secretary ), what fell for consideration by way of public
interest litigation under Article 32 of the Constitution was the propriety of the
allocation of coal-blocks made by the Union between 1993 and 2010. The
company has, again, placed several paragraphs from the report. At paragraph 65
of the report, the court observed that allocation of a coal-block was not merely an
identification exercise as it conferred a valuable right on the allottee. The court
disagreed with the submission of the Union that the allocation of a coal-block did
not amount to the grant of largesse and observed, at paragraph 76, that "such
allocation has to meet the twin constitutional tests, one, the distribution of
natural resources that vest in the State is to subserve the common good and,
two, the allocation is not violative of Article 14." The judgment noticed several
previous decisions referred to hereinabove and concluded that the entire process
of allocation of coal-blocks suffered from the vice of arbitrariness and legal flaws,
that guidelines had been honoured more in their breach and that there was no
objective criterion for evaluation of comparative merits. The court held that the
approach had been ad hoc and casual, that there was no fair and transparent
procedure and that the ultimate result was the unfair distribution of national
wealth where common good and public interest had suffered heavily. 92. The company refers to a passage from American Jurisprudence (2d), Volume
16A, paragraph 694 on the doctrine of impairment of obligation. It appears that
the strictness with which the impairment clause was once regarded has been
diluted in its liberal construction in modern times; that it now prohibits
unreasonable impairment only; and, it is not an impediment to the State's
authority to safeguard the vital interests of its people. 93. Much emphasis has been placed by the company on a judgment reported
at (2015) 1 SCC 558 (City Industrial Development Corporation v. Platinum
Entertainment) which pertained to the allotment of land by a statutory authority
in the State of Maharashtra. The matter that reached the Supreme Court was a
sequel to the Popcorn Entertainment Corporation case noticed earlier. Allotments
of plots to three entities were cancelled, which resulted in petitions under Article
226 of the Constitution being brought before the Bombay High Court. Following
the requests by the writ petitioners in those matters, commercial plots were
allotted to them on leasehold basis. In certain cases the entire payment was
received and even agreements to lease were entered into by the statutory body
and the lessees. Notices of cancellation were issued and the agreements were
sought to be repudiated. The statutory authority in that case was a town
planning authority appointed under a State Act. Such statutory body contended
that the allotments had been made pursuant to direct applications being made to
office of the chief minister and a subsequent inquiry revealed that the allotments
were illegal and had resulted in a massive financial loss to the State. The High
Court quashed the order of cancellation, which was challenged before the
Supreme Court. The judgment considered several authorities noticed herein and
took cognisance of a report that observed that the allotments in that case were
made in an arbitrary manner. It also saw that all three allotments were made in
favour of entities controlled by a solitary individual. The court observed that no
procedure was adopted by the statutory authority for allotment of the commercial
plots "either by tender or by competitive bidding" and held that "no transparency
has been maintained ... in making these allotments of the government land." The
 Supreme Court quoted several of its previous judgments pertaining to allotment
of land, distribution of natural resources and grant of State largesse, wherein it
had been asserted that actions of agencies of the State must be for the public
good, for achieving the objects for which they exist and should not be arbitrary or
capricious. The company focuses on paragraph 45 of the report where the
Supreme Court found that while considering the propriety of the cancellation of
the allotments, the High Court had ignored the circumstances in which the
allotments had been made. The court observed that though the statutory
authority had the power to make the allotments "but the conduct of such
allotment should have been more clear and transparent and without presence of
any element of favouritism and/or nepotism and without being influenced by any
such thing in exercising the discretion ..." The appeal was allowed by upholding
the cancellation since the statutory body "showed undue favour to the
respondents and managed to allot the government land in favour of one person
..." The observation at paragraph 49 of the report is of some relevance in the
present context: 94. The company has referred to a judgment reported at (2008) 8 SCC 92
( State Bank of India v. S. N. Goyal ) for the distinction made therein between the
process of adjudication by a civil court and the exercise of the power of judicial
review in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. Paragraph 21 of the
report has been placed in support of the respondents' contention in the present
 proceedings that the court may look into the records pertaining to the allotments
made by the board of directors of the company and those under the chairman's
discretionary quota to satisfy itself whether the allotments were justified or made
on appropriate considerations: 95. As to the cut-off date of February 28, 2011 fixed by the company for
cancellation of both non-residential and residential allotments, the company
relies on three judgments. In the judgment reported at (2008) 14 SCC 702
( Government of Andhra Pradesh v. N. Subbarayudu ), it was observed that the
court must exercise judicial restraint and, ordinarily, leave it to the executive to
fix the cut-off date as the government "must be left with some leeway and free
play at the joints in this connection." In the next judgment reported at (2011) 8
SCC 269 ( Orissa Power Transmission Corporation Limited v. Khageswar
Sundaray ), it was observed that the court would generally presume that a cut-off
date had been fixed upon taking relevant considerations into account; and it
would be for the party questioning the reasonableness thereof to substantiate the
same. The other judgment on this aspect is reported at (2012) 1 SCC 226 ( Union
of India v. Nitdip Textile Processors Private Limited ) where the Supreme Court
observed that there was a broader power of classification in taxation matters
than in some other exercises of legislation. But the court cautioned that the test
is not one of wisdom, but of good faith. 96. The company has relied on Sachidanand Pandey (supra) and K. Shyam
Kumar (supra) to suggest that though it is generally the rule that the reasons
assigned by a State or such authority in support of a decision or particular action
 cannot, subsequently, be added to, when there is overwhelmingly consideration
of public interest, additional reasons can be gone into. The following passage
from paragraph 27 of the report in Sachidanand Pandey is apposite: 97. The individual features of the many petitions have been permitted to be
placed by the several petitioners. The petitioners in the lead matter purchased a
five-cottah plot of land in an area under the Rajarhat Police Station by a deed of
conveyance executed on October 3, 1988 at a princely consideration of
Rs.5,000/-. Such land was acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 for the
Rajarhat New Township project in the year 2000 upon payment of a sum of
Rs.39,540/- to the petitioners. The petitioners in the lead matter claim to have
applied on March 29, 2008 for allotment of a 10-cottah plot for non-residential
purpose under the chairman's discretionary quota. They introduced themselves
as land-losers, referred to the advertisement issued on December 22, 2007 and
disclosed that they intended to set up a multi-car showroom with a workshop
 and allied automobile services. They emphasised that the project would "facilitate
the people of Rajarhat and ... generate employment of West Bengal." 98. It was such momentous application that was apparently taken up for
consideration by the screening committee at its meeting of April 28, 2008 and
recommended without any supporting reason, presumably because the
application spoke eloquently for itself and could not have been improved upon. It
appears that the commendable application was accepted as god-sent by the
minister-chairman and he accorded his approval under the discretionary quota
on February 17, 2011 which was intimated by the joint managing director of the
company to the petitioners on February 25, 2011. Apart from the obvious merits
of the application, the other aspect of note in the lead petition is the authority
with which facts pertaining to the board meetings of the company, the
deliberations and the minutes thereof have been disclosed in such petition.
Despite the pointed question to the petitioners in the lead matter - and, indeed,
to several other petitioners who have relied on copies of the company's
documents (screening committee minutes and board minutes which have not
been forwarded as extracts) - as to how photocopies of the company's records
could be available to the petitioners, there has been no answer. The petitioners in
the lead matter, however, insist that they had been favoured with an allotment
since they were land-losers and they had submitted a project that the then
chairman, in his discretion, regarded as capable of generating employment. 99. The company says that the application that may have been made by the
lead petitioners cannot be found in the company's records. The company insists
that not only did the purported application not indicate how the petitioners
conformed to the eligibility criteria indicated in the guidelines for allotment of
non-residential plots in New Town under the chairman's discretionary quota, but
the allotment was made in dubious circumstances since no copy of the
application is available in the records and the rubber-stamp on the received copy
of the application is suspect. In the affidavit-in-opposition filed by the company
 in WP 5158(W) of 2013 the company has asserted at paragraph 10 that the
similar rubber-stamp in that case was not the company's. The company says that
several of the applications that have been relied on by many of the petitioners
herein carry the same dubious rubber-stamp with a scribbled short signature of
a person that the company and its officers claim not to be familiar with. 100. The petitioner in WP 37304(W) of 2013 refers to an even more lucrative
employment opportunity that he presented by his application of November 5,
2007 that the chairman, in his wisdom, could never have refused. The petitioner
sought a five-cottah plot on the excellent credentials of he being a young
businessman from a family which was in the jewellery business for several
generations. The petitioner did not refer to the earth-shattering employment
opportunities that his project would generate but merely indicated that he
intended to open a jewellery showroom "so that I can expand the family
business." Such convincing application was approved on November 22, 2010 by
the minister-chairman and the company informed the petitioner on February 1,
2011 that just as the petitioner has sought, a five-cottah plot had been allotted to
him in New Town to establish his jewellery shop. As in several other cases,
particularly in the allotment of non-residential plots, the initial letter of
intimation was followed a couple of months later by a formal offer of allotment
identifying the exact location of the plot. In this petitioner's case, the letter of
allotment was issued on May 3, 2011 and the petitioner made substantial
payment in terms thereof before the allotment was cancelled by a generic notice
of December 2, 2013. This petitioner has also asserted that if the cancellation of
the allotment in his favour is not revoked, all other allotments made under the
chairman's discretionary quota and by the company should be annulled. 101. The company refers to the guidelines for allotment of non-residential plots
under the chairman's discretionary quota, particularly the clauses therein
pertaining to eligibility, preference and selection: Indeed, the letter of intimation of February 1, 2011 required the petitioner "to
kindly furnish a project report ... " The company suggests that if the "concept
plan of the project" had not been submitted by this petitioner and no material
evidencing the fulfillment of the eligibility criteria by this petitioner was
furnished, there was nothing on which the chairman could have exercised his
discretion to approve the allotment in this petitioner's favour. The company says
that this petitioner's case is not an exception, but the general rule; in the sense
that allotments of non-residential plots were approved by the chairman when
there was no material on which any rational assessment could be made and
there is no record of the chairman giving any iota of reasons in support of the
approval of any allotment of plot in New Town. 103. The next in the line is WP 5158(W) of 2013, instituted by two companies
and the persons in control thereof who had applied on December 26, 2007 to set
up a financial hub in New Town. The application was accompanied by a concept
plan which revealed the revolutionary business that the applicants intended to
pursue in the office complex that they proposed to set up for trading in shares
and securities, commodity trading, mutual funds services, insurance services
and training in the financial sector. The applicants also intended "to provide
office space" to other entities for conducting banking services, taxation and
accountancy services and other advisory services. Such petitioners have relied on
a document appearing to be dated February 28, 2011 where most of the names of
the allottees are printed and the plot numbers are indicated in hand. The
minister-chairman accorded the approval by apparently signing the document on
February 28, 2011 whereupon a letter of intimation of the same date was issued
by the company to the petitioners. The formal offer of allotment of the plot was
made to these petitioners on May 7, 2011. As in most other allotments of non-
residential plots in New Town, the petitioners were required to pay Rs.13.36 lakh
per cottah for the allotment of the land on freehold basis. After the company took
up a review of the allotments made under the previous management, the
petitioners were requested to withdraw their application and obtain refund of the
 payments made by a letter dated September 14, 2011 before the allotment was
finally cancelled on similar grounds as in a number of non-residential plots by a
letter dated February 11, 2013. This case, along with the seven other allottees of
non-residential plots evident from the document of approval of February 28,
2011 appearing at page 134 of the petition, conforms to the exact parameters of
the final board decision of December 1, 2012 to cancel such allotments that were
approved and intimated to the allottees on February 28, 2011. 104. The company has said in its affidavit that the application alleged to have
been made by these petitioners is not available in the records of the company.
The company has denied the rubber-stamp on the received copy of the
application and the signature thereon. The more robust criticism of the approval
of the allotment in these petitioners' favour by the erstwhile minister-chairman is
that three allotments were made in favour of the members of one family which
was contrary to the express stipulation in the guidelines that one person or one
organisation could apply for only one plot. The company demonstrates that the
petitioners in WP 5158(W) of 2013 and the petitioners in WP 2521(W) of 2014
and WP 13956(W) of 2014 are controlled by or belong to the same family. The
company refers to the guidelines pertaining to allotment of non-residential plots
under the chairman's discretionary quota and the restriction therein of allotment
of more than one plot to the same person or organisation. The company says that
if the chairman's discretion was exercised in such arbitrary and wanton manner
by disregarding the relevant guidelines and the norms fixed, the allotments
cannot be honoured as it would be opposed to public policy to do so. 105. None has appeared in support of WP 2531(W) of 2012 and it is submitted
by advocate formerly appearing in support of such petition that the change of the
political banner in the petitioner municipality may have resulted in the allotment
not being pursued. 106. The next petitioners in WP 28365(W) of 2013 have contributed
substantially to the jurisprudence in this court and the law on acquisition of sick
 jute mills pursuant to sanction granted by court that every student of company
law would be aware of. Such petitioners, like several other allottees of non-
residential plots in New Town before and after them, have access to photocopies
of board meetings of the government company responsible for allotments and
other records of such company. The petitioner company claims to have applied
on January 12, 2011, which appears to have been received on January 17, 2011,
for a 20-cottah plot in New Town for setting of its "Corporate Office-cum-R&D
Centre." The petitioner company flaunted its running of the Victoria Jute Mills
which was, according to it, "a sick industry which has been subsequently revived
by us." It was but natural that with such credentials and the epoch-making
proposal of setting up a corporate office and research centre, that the application
was approved by the minister-chairman on February 1, 2011, which was
communicated by the letter of intimation of February 21, 2011. The petitioners
are silent on how the application made by them in January, 2011 that they have
disclosed in the petition was approved with remarkable alacrity in less than a
fortnight. Though the respondent authorities insinuate that the allotment was
pursuant to the then Transport Minister's recommendation of January 19, 2011,
as is evident from such minister's letter to the chairman of HIDCO, the
petitioners refer to their original application of February 21, 2008 which is
appended to the letter of recommendation. The offer of allotment of the land was
made by the company on May 7, 2011 at the usual rate of Rs.13.364 lakh per
cottah. The allotment was cancelled by a letter of July 26, 2013 on the same lines
as of the lead petitioners extracted above. 107. The company suggests that it is unusual that an application is made in
January, 2011, purportedly in pursuance of an application earlier made in the
year 2008, but the subsequent application does not refer to the previous
application. The company contends that neither application disclosed any
material for the minister-chairman to assess whether the application or the
applicant conformed to the eligibility criteria for the allotment of a non-residential
plot under the chairman's discretionary quota. 108. The next lot of petitioners in WP 30170(W) of 2013 sought a plot of "around
one acre", apparently for constructing a corporate office and residential complex
for the senior personnel of the petitioner company. The petitioner company
claims to have applied on December 27, 2007 and indicated the diverse range of
its business from metal containers to mosquito repellants and its impressive
turnover of Rs.686 crores in the year ended March 31, 2007. The application
met with the approval of the chairman on February 1, 2011 and the same was
intimated to the petitioner company on February 21, 2011. The 20-cottah plot
was identified in the offer of allotment of May 7, 2011 on freehold basis under the
chairman's discretionary quota at Rs.13.364 lakh per cottah. The allotment was
cancelled by a letter of August 6, 2013 on similar grounds as indicated in the
letter of cancellation issued to the lead petitioners extracted above. The only
other point of note in this matter is that HIDCO has disclosed a letter dated
February 25, 2008 in its opposition where the turnover of the petitioner company
for the year ended March 31, 2010 has been disclosed. However, the petitioners
say that the date on such application is written in hand, though they do not
appear to be embarrassed by the managing director of the petitioner company
addressing an undated letter to the chairman of HIDCO. Such petitioners also
question the unsubstantiated allegation of fraud levelled against them in the
company's affidavit. 109. The company contends that the copy of the application disclosed in the
petition could not have been the one which was taken into consideration by the
erstwhile chairman for according approval to the allotment. The copy of the
application disclosed in the company's affidavit uses the words "once again" in
the opening sentence and the company suggests that such words would indicate
that it was the later application. Curiously, the business that the petitioners
sought to set up at New Town at the proposed plot is not identical in the
applications dated December 27, 2007 and February 25, 2008. In the alleged
earlier application disclosed in the petition, the proposed use of the land was "for
 constructing a Corporate office and a residential complex for our senior
personnel." In the application disclosed by the company, the petitioners sought
the allotment "for constructing a Corporate office for our Packaging Division."
Though such serious anomaly has been indicated in the company's affidavit,
paragraph 16 (e) of the affidavit-in-reply implicitly acknowledges the copy of the
application disclosed in the company's affidavit to be "subsequent reminders
which were addressed on behalf of the petitioner company, but the receipt in
respect of which were not acknowledged." The icing on the suspicious cake is the
proposed use of the land as indicated in the letter of intimation of February 21,
2011: "construction of corporate office for Packaging Division." 110. It is, thus, apparent that the approval of the allotment in favour of this
petitioner company was made on the basis of the application that carries the
hand-written date of February 25, 2008 and which has been disclosed in the
company's affidavit. The petitioners have accepted the application apparently
dated February 25, 2008 to be theirs, but they only dispute the date ascribed to
the document on the ground that it may have been inserted by hand to show
them in poor light. Even if the hand-written date on such application as disclosed
in the company's affidavit is disregarded, it would be evident from the reference
to the turnover figures of the petitioner company of March 31, 2010 referred to
therein, that such application could not have been made prior to some time in
the middle of the year 2010. If the last date for receiving applications for
allotment of non-residential plots was March 31, 2008, the application carrying a
reference to March 31, 2010 could never have qualified for consideration. More
importantly, the committee that met on April 28, 2008 to consider the
applications for non-residential plots, could not have had an application referring
to the figures as at March 31, 2010 before it. The anomaly is too glaring to ignore
and throws considerable light on the manner in which allotments were approved
by the minister-chairman under his discretionary quota. 111. The next set of petitioners in WP 4737(W) of 2014 insist that they have
been needlessly clubbed with the allottees under the chairman's discretionary
quota since these petitioners' allotment was made by the board of the company
as was informed to the petitioner company by a letter of February 15, 2011. The
allotment was of a 20-cottah plot for the petitioner company to establish a
corporate office and training centre. Like the other allottees of commercial land in
New Town, these petitioners say that the very setting-up of an office would
generate employment and such consideration weighed with the board in the
allotment being made in the petitioners' favour. Like several other allottees of
non-residential plots, these petitioners question the cancellation of their
allotment on the ground that the respondent authorities do not suggest that
some applicants were arbitrarily chosen for allotments while others were rejected.
These petitioners exhort that a golden opportunity to resuscitate the local
economy would be lost to the State if the cancellation of their allotment is not set
aside. 112. The company refers to the minutes of its board meeting held on October
22, 2011 and the discussion under item 13C of the business transacted thereat.
The minutes reflect that a 20-cottah plot was allotted to the petitioner company
in the central business district in New Town by a board resolution of January 24,
2011, but the minimum plot size in the CBD area was of two acre. The board
resolved on October 22, 2011 to cancel the allotment since no offer of allotment
had been issued to the petitioner company nor any payment received. The
company submits that since no firm allotment of any plot was communicated to
the petitioner company, the company was well within in its rights to correct an
erroneous decision taken at a previous board meeting. 113. The petitioners in WP 3162(W) of 2014 had applied in the name of the
petitioner company on March 4, 2008 to set up a real estate project on the
expressway in Rajarhat for an "ultramodern commercial building complex of
international city standards." The allotment was made in the petitioner
 company's favour under the chairman's discretionary quota on January 17, 2011
with the letter of intimation being issued on February 1, 2011. As in several other
cases of allotment of non-residential plots, the letter of intimation issued to the
petitioner company required a detailed project report to be submitted. The letter
of intimation was delivered by hand and the project report was acknowledged to
have been received by February 3, 2011. The offer of allotment on freehold basis
at Rs.13.405 lakh per cottah was issued on May 10, 2011. The letter of
cancellation was issued on December 6, 2013, which has been challenged on
similar grounds as in several other matters, including the erroneous reference in
the letter of cancellation to the date of approval of the allotment. 114. The company says that the petitioners are property dealers and did not
furnish any information as to how the petitioner company was eligible to obtain
an allotment under the chairman's discretionary quota. The company claims that
the application disclosed in the petition is not available in the company's records
and there is nothing in the copy of such application to suggest that it was
deposited with or received by the company. 115. The next petition, WP 2565(W) of 2014, is by a company that owns a
landmark mall on the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass off Salt Lake and which is
part of a group that spins real estate projects under the appropriately sounding
name of "Mani." The petition discloses an undated application for allotment of a
two-acre plot in New Town and the purpose was for setting up a corporate office.
Quite understandably and since the project promised to sub-serve the common
good, it was approved by the chairman under his quota on February 26, 2011
and intimation thereof was issued on February 28, 2011. The offer of allotment
on freehold basis at Rs.13.405 lakh per cottah was issued on May 12, 2011 for
the 20-cottah plot. The notice of cancellation was issued on December 9, 2013 on
similar lines as most of the previous cases of revocation of non-residential
allotments. The one salient feature of this matter is that the refund offered by
HIDCO of the amount that had been paid pursuant to the allotment, was
 promptly encashed by the petitioner company and it is claimed that such
encashment was without prejudice to the rights of the petitioners to seek
annulment of the cancellation of the allotment. 116. The company says that it has only a coloured photocopy of the application
in its records. The company refers to the application to contend that the
information therein was not sufficient for the erstwhile chairman to assess
whether the applicant was eligible for an allotment under his discretionary quota.
As in several other matters, the company contends that if the letter of intimation
required the project report and the other details to be furnished, the exercise of
the discretion by the chairman to approve the allotment, without reference to
such material, had to be on irrelevant and extraneous considerations. 117. In WP 2521(W) of 2014, the trump-card is thrown at the first instance by
referring to the board note pertaining to the minutes of the 61st board meeting of
the company held on October 22, 2011. The petitioners say that the allotment
made in their favour is not referred to in board note No.28 or in any of the charts
appended thereto. They claim that their application of December 27, 2007 for a
20-cottah plot was to satisfy the burning need for a conference and banquet hall
in New Town and it was in the best interests of developing the township that the
remarkable concept plan was accorded approval by the chairman under his
discretionary quota on February 24, 2011 which was intimated to the petitioner
by the company's letter of February 28, 2011. These petitioners appear to be
slightly disappointed with only a 15-cottah allotment being made in their favour.
They claim to have made substantial payments upon receipt of the offer of
allotment on freehold basis at Rs.13.405 lakh per cottah. They attack the generic
letter of cancellation of November 27, 2013 for it betraying non-application of
mind and being otherwise without basis. 118. The primary challenge by the company to the allotment made in favour of
these petitioners is on the ground that a solitary family was favoured with the
 allotment of three non-residential plots by the erstwhile chairman in derogation
of the norms set down in the relevant guidelines. 119. WP 3788(W) of 2014 was among the petitions taken up with the others but
it was dismissed as not pressed on March 25, 2015. 120. WP 2523(W) of 2014 is similar to WP 2521(W) of 2014 in the name of the
petitioning allottee not being reflected in the relevant board note pertaining to the
minutes of the board meeting of the company held on October 22, 2011. The
petitioners say that unless the allotment is revived, the one-of-a-kind showroom
of steel products that the petitioners plan on their 15-cottah plot as a show-case
to the world, would be lost to the city and the State. Apart from challenging the
cancellation on the grounds already urged by others similarly placed, these
petitioners refer to the confusion in the business transacted at the board
meetings of the company, particularly the mix-up between the allotment of
residential plots and non-residential plots at the 70th board meeting of the
company. The petitioner company claims to have applied by a letter of August 12,
2010 for allotment of a non-residential plot in New Town "for showroom
purpose". Even the nature of the showroom was not indicated in the application.
The chairman approved the allotment in favour of the petitioner on February 17,
2011 and the letter of intimation was issued on February 25, 2011. The offer of
allotment was issued by the company to the petitioners on May 12, 2011 for the
15-cottah plot on freehold basis at a price of Rs.13.405 lakh per cottah. The
petitioners claim to have paid the money in full prior to October 22, 2011, but
their allotment was cancelled by a notice of November 28, 2013 on identical
grounds as in the case of the lead petition. 121. The company claims in its affidavit that though the petitioner company
claims to have applied for a plot in 2010, the last date for receiving applications
for allotment of non-residential plots under the chairman's discretionary quota
was March 31, 2008. The company asserts that the petitioner company could not
have applied within the time stipulated to obtain any allotment under the
 chairman's discretionary quota since the petitioner company was only
incorporated on January 14, 2009. A copy of the relevant certificate of
incorporation has been appended to the company's affidavit. The company
submits that the charade that the company under its erstwhile chairman played
out is epitomised by the approval accorded to this petitioner company. 122. The company has disclosed the minutes of the meeting of the committee
set up to scrutinise the applications for allotment of non-residential plots in New
Town. The minutes of the meeting of such committee held on April 28, 2008
referred to its consideration of 849 applications. The list of the 849 applications
has also been disclosed. The list is in the form of a table that has six columns,
including one for the date of the relevant application and another disclosing the
purpose of use of the land. The name of the petitioner company appears against
serial No.310 in the list. The purpose is recorded as "Showroom Purpose" and the
date of the application is record as "25.02.2008". It appears from the list that the
applications were arranged serially on the basis of the dates thereof. It would
appear from the documents as disclosed by the company, with copies made
available to these petitioners and other parties interested to obtain the same, that
this petitioner company apparently made an application a year before its
incorporation and the copy of the application disclosed in the petition may not
have been the one on which the allotment was made. 123. The company suggests that if these petitioners are to be believed and their
application of August 12, 2010 accepted at face value, it would imply that the
minutes of the meeting of the scrutiny committee shown to have been held on
April 28, 2008 may have been ante-dated for obvious reasons; for, an application
that the applicant claims to have been made on August 12, 2010 could not have
been considered by the committee on April 28, 2008. 124. The company suggests in the alternative that if the application had been
made on the date of February 25, 2008 as attributed to it in the relevant list
available in the company's records, it was an application by an entity that did not
 exist; and ought to have suffered summary rejection. The respondents submit
that if such was the quality of evaluation of the applications, the approval
granted by the chairman under his discretionary quota was improper and
questionable. 125. The petitioner in WP 36986(W) of 2013 appears to have been clairvoyant. It
applied under the chairman's quota on December 23, 2007 for setting up an
economy hotel on a 10-cottah plot in New Town which it foresaw as being named
Jyoti Basu Nagar though the former Chief Minister of the State died only in
January, 2010. The allotment was approved on January 17, 2011 and the
intimation issued on February 1, 2011. This petitioner suggests that since its
offer of allotment was issued on April 21, 2011, it cannot be treated on a different
footing than Balaji Enterprise in which case the approval was also accorded on
January 17, 2011 and the offer of allotment was also made on April 21, 2011.
The petitioner complains that for reasons which are not difficult to imagine, the
deed of conveyance in favour of Balaji was executed on October 21, 2011, a day
before the board meeting of the company of October 22, 2011, and the court
should not accept the childish explanation proffered by the company that the
transaction in Balaji's case was completed by lesser minions in the company
before the decision to annul the allotments under the chairman's quota had been
circulated. The petitioner challenges the grounds of cancellation in the relevant
letter of November 27, 2013 as being baseless and unsustainable as the
petitioner was not offered any opportunity to deal with the apprehension
expressed therein. To the extent the notice of cancellation ascribes mala fides on
the part of the petitioner, it says that no stigma could have been attached to its
conduct without previous notice. 126. The company's affidavit refers to New Town being renamed after a former
Chief Minister by a notification of September 27, 2010 published in the gazette
on October 1, 2010. The company contends that the tell-tale suspicious rubber-
stamp of the company appears on the received copy of the application dated
 December 31, 2007 disclosed in the petition. The company suggests that if the
ante-dated application is seen to have been made in 2010, it would imply that
the scrutiny committee could not have considered the application at its meeting
of April 28, 2008. It may, thus, be inferred that the minutes of the meeting of the
scrutiny committee were ante-dated and no real scrutiny or examination of the
applications was undertaken by such committee in which three of the members
were the officer on special duty to the chairman, the principal advisor to the
chairman and the chief advisor to the chairman. 127. Though no submission has been made in support of WP 6011(W) of 2014,
it appears from the petition that the petitioners had applied for setting up a
"college for job oriented courses". Like several other applications for allotment of
plots in New Town, the date is written in hand and the receipt issued by the
company on February 29, 2008 bears the same rubber-stamp and initials as in
several other matters. The letter of intimation was issued on February 1, 2011 for
"setting up a college for IT and Management courses" upon the chairman's
approval thereof on November 26, 2010. The offer of allotment was issued on May
12, 2011 for a 10-cottah plot at Rs.5.50 lakh per cottah on freehold basis under
the chairman's discretionary quota. The allotment was cancelled by the
company's letter of December 2, 2013 on similar lines as in most other cases of
cancellation of non-residential allotments under the chairman's discretionary
quota in New Town. 128. The petitioners in WP 36271(W) of 2013 suggest that spice is the flavour of
life and the allotment of a 10-cottah plot for a Chinese restaurant in their favour
could not have been cancelled, at least on the grounds indicated in the notice of
November 22, 2013. These petitioners had applied on December 18, 2007 and
their application was approved by the chairman on February 17, 2011. The letter
of intimation was issued to them on February 25, 2011 and the offer of allotment
identifying the plot was issued to them on May 7, 2011. The allotment was
 cancelled on similar grounds as many of the other allottees of non-residential
plots. 129. The company refers to the copies of the two documents appended as
annexures P-1 and P-2 to the petition. The first of the documents is dated
January 29, 2007 in hand at two places after deleting the printed date of
"15.12.2006". In such letter addressed to a general manager of the company, the
petitioner claimed to have applied "for setting up a 16,000 sq. ft. hotel cum
restaurant" and requested the company "to kindly consider the same afresh and
inform me of your decision." That would imply that even before advertisements
were issued by the company on October 12, 2007 inviting applications for
allotment of non-residential plots in New Town, this petitioner had applied
therefor and had also issued a reminder in such regard. The letter dated January
29, 2007 could not have been issued in pursuance of the more formal application
for allotment that is said to have been made on December 18, 2007 that appears
as annexure P-2 to the petition. 130. The next petitioner in WP 4574(W) of 2012 applied as a land-loser for
allotment of a non-residential plot "for my proposed commercial project at New
Town to take care of the loss I had to face" upon the State acquiring the
petitioner's ancestral land. The petitioner intended to set up a budget hotel.
Following his application of January 3, 2008 (the date is written in hand), the
chairman appears to have approved the allotment under his discretionary quota
on February 27, 2011 and the letter of intimation was issued to the petitioner on
February 28, 2011. The company has appended a copy of a document dated
February 24, 2011 wherein the names of five allottees are printed and the non-
residential plots allotted to such applicants are indicated in hand. The document
appears to carry the signature of the minister-chairman. As noticed earlier in a
similar document evidencing the chairman's approval of the applications
recorded therein, there is no reason indicated in support of the approval. The
allotment made in favour of this petitioner has not been formally cancelled since
 he instituted this quia timet action in March, 2012 and obtained an order therein
on May 16, 2012 that the action taken by the respondents would abide by the
result of the petition; which was improved upon on an interlocutory application
on March 7, 2013 by directing status quo as regards the possession of the
petitioner to be maintained until further orders. Though it is the undisputed
position that the possession of any plot has not been made over to the petitioner
since even the offer of allotment identifying the plot has not been issued to him,
in deference to the order passed by this court, no further steps have been taken
by the company. The company, however, asserts that since no letter of allotment
was issued to this petitioner, no formal cancellation of the allotment is necessary;
and, the letter of intimation may not be required to be withdrawn since the
company does not intend to allot any plot to this petitioner. The petitioner insists
that since he has been informed that the allotment in his favour has been
approved and it cannot be doubted that another budget hotel is necessary in New
Town, the company should be directed to issue the formal letter of allotment,
execute the necessary documents in respect thereof and make over possession of
the allotted plot to him. 131. The company has referred to a representation made by the petitioner on
April 16, 2011, seeking to have the price reduced on the ground that he was a
retired school teacher and his son was unemployed and it was "impossible for us
to make this payment" of Rs.13.36 lakh per cottah. The company contrasts such
assertion with the declaration as to the petitioner's occupation in his application
said to have been made on January 3, 2008 where he claimed to be "Hotelier,
Partner of a 50 saleable roomed comfortable budget hotel at Tarapith ... with
swimming pool facility" and partner of a group of promoters engaged in the
construction of multistoried apartments. More importantly, the company refers to
paragraph 2 (v) of its affidavit in the matter where the company has claimed that
the company is in possession of the details of the petitioner as disclosed in his
income-tax permanent account number (PAN) card. The company says that since
the petitioner's date of birth in the PAN card is stated to be September 15, 1946
 and his age was disclosed as 64 in his application which is said to be dated
January 3, 2008, it would be evident that the application was made in the year
2010 or later and a false date of January 3, 2008 has been hand-written thereon. 132. The petitioner in the next matter, WP 6440(W) of 2014, claims to have
applied on February 28, 2008 for the allotment of a 10-cottah non-residential
plot to set up a Montessori and meditation school at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. The
application promised that the applicant would "provide 15% reservation for the
children of the families of land losers at Rajarhat & children of poor people of the
locality below the power (sic, poverty) line and will also provide direct employment
to persons which are further proposed to be recruited amongst the family of land
losers at Rajarhat ..." Such noble project must have conjured visions of ill-clad
toddlers sharing their expensive tiffin with their mates in the proposed school as
it prompted the chairman to approve the allotment on December 7, 2010 with the
letter of intimation being issued by the company to the petitioner on February 1,
2011. No further communication was addressed by the company to the petitioner
thereafter and, following the petitioner's query under the Right to Information
Act, 2005 , the company responded on April 10, 2012 that the "Chairman's Quota
in WBHIDCO Ltd. has been abolished." A further query of the petitioner resulted
in the company informing the petitioner on November 18, 2012 that the process
of cancellation of allotments under the chairman's quota was continuing and had
not been completed. This petitioner seeks to rely on the perceived anomalies in
the board note pertaining to the 61st meeting of the board of directors of the
company. The petitioner claims that the allotment of residential plots in favour of
Nasiruddin Syed, Shuvanan Ray, Abhilasha Cooperative Housing Society, Five
Star Housing Cooperative Housing Society Limited, Rajeev Kumar and Dipak
Kumar Bhattacharya, among others, ought to have been cancelled since the
letters of allotment in each case was issued subsequent to February 28, 2011.
The petitioner demonstrates from the documents disclosed by the company that
possession of the plot was made over to each of such allottees notwithstanding
that similar allotments under the chairman's quota had been cancelled. In Rajeev
 Kumar 's case, the status of the allotment indicated in the company's
supplementary affidavit is seriously criticised as the petitioner perceives it to be a
crass act of favoritism in favour of such allottee since his allotment is alleged by
the company to be under reconsideration despite it being cancelled. 133. Apart from the company questioning the approval of the allotment in the
petitioner's favour on the ground that the application did not furnish any
material to demonstrate that the petitioner was eligible to obtain a plot under the
chairman's discretionary quota, the company shows the suspicious rubber-
stamp with the identical scribbled initials thereon. The company, however, says
that though the company informed this petitioner following a query under the Right to Information Act , that "no records are maintained about unsuccessful
applicants i.e. who applied for Chairman's Quota but did not get any allotment",
there is the list containing some details of the several other applicants for non-
residential plots in New Town that the scrutiny committee apparently examined
on April 28, 2008. But the company submits that the applications and other
records pertaining to the unsuccessful applicants under the chairman's
discretionary quota are not available in its records. 134. The petitioners in WP 21411(W) of 2013 are a charitable trust and its
trustees. They applied to the chairman on June 22, 2009 for a two-acre plot to
set up a multipurpose care centre in New Town which would include an old-age
home, cater to the disabled and provide coaching facilities for children of poor
parents. Following the application, the company requested the trust on October
31, 2009 to submit a project report. The trust responded by its letter of
November 9, 2009 by which it apparently submitted its project report, though
such report does not accompany the copy of the letter appended as annexure P-4
to the petition. What is of significance is that even before the project report had
been submitted, the representatives of the trust had been shown a plot in New
Town which they confirmed would suffice for their purpose. The decision to allot
a 1.15-acre plot to the petitioners was taken at the 51st meeting of the board of
 directors of the company held on January 15, 2010. Copies of the relevant pages
of the minutes of such board meeting have been appended to the petition. The
company informed the petitioners on May 10, 2010 that it had approved in
principle to allot a plot of land in favour of the trust. At the 55th meeting of the
board of directors of the company held on October 8, 2010, it was recorded that
though an allotment of a plot outside the periphery canal had been made to these
petitioners "for its noble objects at a price of Rs.1.30 lakhs per Cottah ... the
allottee had to face lots of problems and there was no easy solution for taking
possession of the plots." In such light, the board recorded that an alternative plot
of about one acre had been identified and the board approved the allotment of
such alternative plot after cancellation of the previous plot "on leasehold basis at
a price of 50 % of the break-even cost of Rs.2.75 lakhs" to the trust. The offer of
allotment was issued by the company to the petitioners on November 22, 2010,
identifying the one-acre plot allotted on leasehold basis for a period of 99 years
"for construction of a Residential Campus for carrying out various social welfare
activities" at a price of Rs.1,37,500 per cottah. After the reconstitution of the
board of directors of the company in 2011, the matter pertaining to the allotment
to the petitioners was discussed at the board meeting of the company held on
October 22, 2011, where the board noted that the trust had requested for change
of the status from leasehold to freehold. The board resolved to refer the issue to
the State government and authorised its new chairman and managing director to
take appropriate steps in such regard. The allotment was cancelled by a notice of
February 28, 2013 on the principal ground that it was "vitiated by favouritism,
unfairness and prejudicial to the interest of WBHIDCO and contrary to public
interest." The letter also asserted that the allotment on leasehold basis at a price
of Rs.1,37,500/- "was unconscionable, shockingly low ... " The trust's failure to
pay the balance amount was also cited in support of the cancellation of the
allotment. The petitioners lament that a benevolent project has been dumped by
the company on unfounded suspicions and conjectures without affording even a
post-decisional hearing to the petitioners. 135. The company has carried the original records available with it pertaining to
this matter and all the other petitions. The company suggests that the principal
trustee of the trust enjoyed considerable clout under the previous dispensation
as would be evident from some of the documents appended to the petition and
the file noting in its records. It appears from the petitioners' letter dated May 4,
2010 issued to the managing director of the company that the petitioners were
aware of the identity of the plot that would be allotted to them. By a letter of May
10, 2010, the company informed the petitioners that it had agreed in principle to
allot a plot of land to the trust. Though the land was not identified even in such
letter, the petitioners were aware thereof even before this letter was issued to
them. The company says that the petitioners and the principal trustee did not
intend to use the plot for setting up any philanthropic project as would appear
from the letters dated November 24, 2010, November 27, 2010, December 8,
2010 and December 24, 2010 issued by the trust to the company, copies whereof
have been disclosed in the petition. The first of such letters called upon the
company to alter the status of the holding from a 99-year lease to freehold or a
999-year lease. It is apparent from the letter of November 24, 2010 that the
principal trustee, who was also the settlor of the trust, had liberal access to the
chairman and to the managing director of the company. He demanded that the
proposed use of the land should be converted to residential and that permissive
possession be given "to employ the Developer and start build up formalities." His
next letter sought permission to mortgage the land. The following letter repeated
the request for permissive possession and the letter of December 24, 2010
dictated that the lease document "should allow transfer by way of sale/under
lease to third parties" of the "residential complex and/or units built thereon
together with proportionate share in the leased land ... without further approval
and/ or sanction from WBHIDCO". The letter also disclosed that the trust "has
decided to enter into an arrangement with AMP Universal Realty Private Limited" 136. The company shows from the note-sheet appended to the relevant file
(which has been permitted to be perused by Advocate for the petitioners), the
following noting of December 29, 2010: 137. The company places its letter of January 5, 2011 by which permissive
possession of the land was allowed even without the reduced consideration being
tendered. The company submits that the allotment of the plot in these
petitioners' favour was at an unconscionably low price and it is evident that the
petitioners were treated as favoured applicants and their every demand was
attended to with an indecorous promptitude that is unbecoming of a government
organisation. 138. The next lot of rejected allottees in WP 3132(W) of 2012 intended to set up
a budget hotel and a commercial centre at the 20-cottah plot allotted to them
under the chairman's discretionary quota. The petitioner company applied on
December 31, 2007 (again, the date is written in hand), introducing itself as a
company engaged in "various civil engineering works like bridges, roads &
buildings etc. with a turnover of Rs.112.33 crore per annum." It informed the
chairman in the application that it was "scheduling to spread out our business
activities in other sectors like to setting up the 'Budget Hotels Chains' in various
cities." The credentials of the applicants and the proposal were too attractive to
reject and the chairman approved an allotment on January 17, 2011 which was
intimated by the company to the applicant on February 1, 2011. The letter of
allotment was issued on May 12, 2011. The impugned cancellation was by a
notice of December 1, 2012. Such notice is different from the similar notices
issued to cancel several of the other non-residential allotments. The notice in this
case curtly informed the allottee that the chairman's decision of January 17,
 2011 "has since been reviewed in the context of the extant policy of the State
Govt. by the Board of Directors in the Meeting dated 22/10/11 ... (and) ... the
Competent Authority has approved cancellation of the instant offer." The
petitioners criticise the notice and the decision reflected therein by asserting that
no policy was disclosed in the relevant letter and it was not indicated how the
allotment in favour of the petitioners was contrary to public policy. The
petitioners point out that the decision to cancel their allotment cannot be
sustained in the backdrop of the arbitrariness with which the company has
selectively chosen some allottees for proceeding against them while the decisions
of the new board reflect that discretionary allotment of plots in New Town
continues. 139. The company places paragraph 4 of the petition where the petitioners
consciously avoided mentioning the date of the application. The company says
that its records pertaining to this matter contain an application which bears the
hand-written date of "31.12.07". By a letter dated January 7, 2013, Advocate for
the company called upon Advocate for the petitioners to forward a copy of the
application made by the petitioner company along with the proof of the receipt
thereof. Inspection of the relevant document was also sought. Though the letter
was duly received on behalf of the petitioners on the same day, no copy of the
application was forwarded nor any inspection offered. In the application in the
records of the company bearing the hand-written date of December 31, 2007, the
name of the petitioner company is disclosed as "Rajpath Contractors & Engineers
Ltd." and there is a reference to its turnover being Rs.112.33 crore per annum.
The company has relied on a second certificate of incorporation issued by the
registrar of companies on July 21, 2008 that the word "Private" was deleted from
the name of the company with effect from July 14, 1998. The company has
appended the project report apparently filed by the petitioner company with its
balance-sheet as at March 31, 2010. The annual turnover of the company as
indicated in the project report is Rs.112.33 crore in the financial year 2009-10.
The company maintains that the hand-written date on the application is fictitious
 and the fact that such document is in the file of the company would demonstrate
the complicity of the petitioners with the erstwhile chairman to whom the
application was addressed. The company says that the petitioner company could
not have applied prior to April 20, 2011 for allotment of any plot for undertaking
any hotel business since its memorandum of association was only amended on
April 20, 2011 to include hotel business. The anomalies as highlighted in the
company's affidavit have been side-stepped in the petitioners' reply. The company
says that since it is evident that the application in this case had not been made
prior to September 2, 2010, since the annual accounts of the petitioner company
for year 2009-10 were signed on such date, it is plain to see that there was no
examination of the application by the scrutiny committee and the purported
minutes of the scrutiny committee of April 28, 2008 ought to be disregarded. 140. The petitioners in WP 7746(W) of 2012 are not represented to pursue their
challenge to the cancellation of the allotment of a non-residential plot in their
favour by a letter of March 28, 2012. The petitioner company in this case is a
Government of India undertaking. The company, however, submits that
Hindustan Steel Works Construction Ltd has accepted the refund offered by the
company and has issued a letter dated June 30, 2014 to the company that it
would not proceed with this petition. A copy of the relevant letter, as made over
to the court by the company, should be retained with the records of this petition. 141. The petitioners in WP 7752(W) of 2012 are two companies and their
promoters. These petitioners seek to defend the allotment of a one-acre plot in
their favour made by the board of directors of the company for setting up a multi-
specialty pediatric hospital. The petitioners applied in 2005 to the Health and
Family Welfare Department of the State for setting up such facility. The
department forwarded the application to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The
petitioners applied on September 30, 2010 to the company which met with the
board's approval at the 59th meeting of the directors of the company on February
28, 2011. As noted earlier, eight proposals for setting up medical facilities in New
 Town received by the board of directors of the company were referred to a
committee at such meeting. The committee approved all the proposals at its
meeting held at 6 pm on February 28, 2011 which was incorporated in the
minutes of the meeting of the board of directors of the company which
commenced at 12 noon of the same day and the board's approval recorded. The
application was made by a SAF Fermion Ltd and shortly upon such company
being intimated on March 1, 2011 of the allotment, it requested the allotment to
be made in favour of Kidz Healthcare Private Ltd by a letter of March 14, 2011
which was approved by the company, without it being apparently referred to the
board, as would be evident from the offer of allotment of the one-acre plot on
freehold basis at Rs.4.15 lakh per cottah in the company's letter of April 9, 2011.
Curiously, no request was made by Kidz Healthcare Private Ltd for the change of
name of the allottee, though the petitioners suggest that the promoters of the two
companies are substantially the same and it was Kidz Healthcare which had
applied for the allotment on September 30, 2010. The company requested the
allottee, by a letter of September 14, 2011, to withdraw the application on the
ground that the allotment had been made when the model code of conduct had
come into operation. The cancellation of the allotment was effected by the
company's letter of March 20, 2012 on the same grounds as cited in several other
cases including in the lead matter with the additional ground that no board
resolution of the company had been passed to allot any plot to Kidz Healthcare
Private Ltd. The petitioners contend that though the relevant company was
incorporated in the year 2006 and the proposed hospital in New Town would be
such company's maiden venture, the credentials of its promoters and the
experience of the persons associated with the allottee should have encouraged
the company to allow the project. 142. The company says that these petitioners must have been regarded as
special by the previous management of the company since the company
secretary, no less, personally received the letter issued by the petitioners for
changing the name of the allottee on March 14, 2011. The company also
 expresses surprise in the note-sheet appended to the company's file pertaining to
this matter recording that Kidz Healthcare is a fully-owned subsidiary of SAF
Fermion, though the original allottee's letter of March 11, 2011 to the company
referred to Kidz Healthcare being a "sister concern" of SAF Fermion Ltd. 143. Though no submission has been made in support of WP 3171(W) of 2012,
it is evident from the petition that the petitioner applied on December 31, 2007
for allotment of a commercial plot to set up a gallery for sports trophies and
corporate awards. The petitioner has relied on a copy of the notice dated October
11, 2007 issued by the company along with the guidelines for allotment of non-
residential plots under the chairman's discretionary quota. The petitioner has
also relied on a subsequent notice of February 27, 2008 by which the time to
apply for plots under the chairman's discretionary quota was extended till the
end of March, 2008. Though the application was made by an entity described as
"International Trophies & Co.", the letter of intimation was issued in the name of
"Awards International" on February 1, 2011 following the chairman's approval of
the allotment on November 22, 2010 for "trading and gallery purposes of sports
trophies and corporate awards." The tentative allotment was cancelled on
December 13, 2011 on the basis of "a policy decision" taken by the board of
directors of the company on October 22, 2011. The notice of cancellation also
asserted that no formal application or payment had been received for the
allotment. 144. The case of the petitioners in WP 22170(W) of 2012 appears to stand on a
different footing than the others. A 10-cottah plot was allotted under the
chairman's quota to the petitioner company for an office building with a
community-business centre or an office and retail centre with food courts and
restaurants. The application of December 26, 2007, which the petitioners were
shy to disclose in the petition, has been revealed by the company in its affidavit.
The short application and the purposed use of the land as indicated in the
accompanying documents should be seen in the applicants' words: 145. In the company's affidavit in this matter, it has disclosed the application
said to have been made by the petitioners on December 26, 2007. The
application, in which the date is written in hand, is signed by two persons
claiming to be the directors of the petitioner company. The company claims that
the petitioner company was incorporated only on July 12, 2008 and, as such, no
application could have been made by the company within the stipulated time till
March 31, 2008 for being allotted a non-residential plot in New Town under the
chairman's discretionary quota. The company asserts that since the petitioner
company was incorporated on July 12, 2008 and its application could only have
been made thereafter, it is evident that the scrutiny committee could not have
considered the application at its meeting of April 28, 2008. The company says
that it intends to cancel this allotment altogether and maintains that this
allotment would demonstrate that the records of the company under the previous
management may have been fabricated to show a meeting of the concerned
committee to have been held even before this petitioner company had been
incorporated or could have applied for a plot in New Town. 146. The next petition, WP 24721(W) of 2012, is also slightly different in the
sense that following the application by the petitioner company, a 20-cottah non-
residential plot was allotted to the petitioner company, but no formal letter of
allotment has been issued and, consequently, no formal cancellation of allotment
has been made. The copy of the application dated March 25, 2008 relied upon by
the petitioners reveals that the petitioners intended to set up a research and
development centre for the development of new varieties of seeds, including
herbal, medicinal and aromatic plants. The chairman approved the allotment
under his discretionary quota on December 7, 2010 and only a letter of
intimation of February 1, 2011 has been issued to the petitioner company.
HIDCO says that since no formal allotment of any plot was made to the relevant
 applicant, there may not be any need to issue any letter of cancellation, though
the letter of intimation may be required to be withdrawn. 147. The petitioners in WP 9162(W) of 2014 claim to have lost the copy of the
application made by them on February 29, 2008. The petitioner company was
allotted a five-cottah non-residential plot for the construction of an office,
including a guest-house, where its members from all over the State could stay
when visiting the city. The approval was granted by the chairman under his
discretionary quota on February 26, 2011 and the letter of intimation was issued
on February 28, 2011. The letter of allotment was issued on May 12, 2011 at
Rs.13.364 lakh per cottah. The allotment was cancelled by a letter of February 5,
2014 on similar grounds as indicated in several other letters of cancellation
noticed above. The only other feature of this petition is that the petitioners have
appended a list of the allottees of plots in New Town under the chairman's
discretionary quota with effect from December 1, 2010. The petitioners complain
that there are several anomalies in the list as disclosed by the company pursuant
to a query under the Right to Information Act and the incomplete list appended
to the supplementary affidavit of the company. The company contends that apart
from the general irregularity involved in the allotment of the plot to these
petitioners, the cancellation of the allotment was also on the ground that even
the earnest money was not deposited within the 30-day period and the same was
sought to be deposited much later on September 16, 2011. 148. The petitioner in WP 1992(W) of 2014 is not represented to make any
submission. A five-cottah plot was allotted to this petitioner for setting up a
Montessori school with an Abacus training centre and a centre to provide
training for higher education. The allotment was approved on November 26, 2010
and the letter of intimation was issued to the petitioner on February 1, 2011. The
offer of allotment of May 12, 2011 indicated the price of Rs.4.125 lakh per cottah.
The letter of cancellation of November 27, 2013 is on almost identical lines as in
the case of the lead petitioners. 149. The company says that as in many other files pertaining to the allottees of
plots in New Town under the chairman's discretionary quota, the original
application that may have been filed by this petitioner is not available in the
company's records. The company submits that that most of the applicants who
obtained allotments under the chairman's discretionary quota have relied on
letters which bear hand-written dates and the original applications are not
available in the relevant file with the company. In this petitioner's case, the
company says that she has relied on the copy of the letter of intimation that was
forwarded to the officer on special duty to the chairman as would be evident from
annexure P-2 to the petition. The company says that one original and three
copies of every letter of intimation was prepared by the company. The original
was issued to the applicant to communicate the tentative allotment of a plot on
the basis of the chairman's approval thereof; and the three copies would be sent
to the chief finance officer and to the secretaries or the like of the chairman and
the managing director of the company. According to the company, the original
letter of intimation issued to an applicant would carry a date at the top, but the
copies forwarded internally to personnel in the company would just carry the
dates under the signature of the joint managing director. In this case, the copy of
the letter of intimation relied upon by the petitioner is in arguably a photocopy of
such document as forwarded to the office of the chairman as would appear from
the appropriate tick against the designation of the second addressee to whom a
copy of the document was forwarded. Strangely, complains the company, the
copy of the same document in its records is also the document marked to the
chairman's office. The company suggests that the petitioner may have misplaced
or not received the original document and obtained a copy thereof from the
chairman's office, without disclosing any communication in such regard, to
append the same to the petition. The company insinuates that the nexus between
the petitioner and the erstwhile chairman is too obvious to ignore and that would
also explain the approval by the chairman of a sketchy application which
furnished no particulars for any meaningful assessment to be made as to
 whether the application conformed to the guidelines to earn an allotment under
the chairman's discretionary quota. The company also points out the dubious
rubber-stamp on the received copy of the application relied on in the petition. 150. The persons interested in the project covered by WP 8059(W) of 2012 are
residents of Junglighat in Port Blair. They applied to the company for a plot to be
allotted for setting up a cooperative housing complex for residential and
commercial purpose. The petitioners rely on an undated application addressed to
the managing director of HIDCO on behalf of a cooperative society that had not
been formed then. The proposal was for building a housing complex on 60,000
sq. ft of land to accommodate 125 families in G+4 structures. To be fair to the
petitioners, their application did not refer to the petitioners being seriously
affected by the Tsunami of 2004. However, the letter of intimation issued by the
company on September 28, 2007 regarded the application to have been made by
"Tsunami affected people." The company allotted 1.25 acre of land to the
petitioners at Rs.2.50 lakh per cottah by a letter of December 11, 2007 "for
construction of housing for Tsunami affected people ..." The allotment was
cancelled by a letter of January 11, 2012, but the petitioners complain that the
grounds therein do injustice to the petitioners since the petitioners had not held
themselves out as victims of the 2004 Tsunami who were in need of a shelter in
the mainland. The petitioners also say that much ado about nothing has been
made in the principal person who set up the cooperative society being
understandably unavailable at his Bondel Road address since such address was
necessary for the purpose of registration of the society in the State and the
relevant person is ordinarily a resident of Port Blair. 151. The company admits that Sanjay Chowdhury may ordinarily be a resident
of Port Blair, but adds that his place of residence in Port Blair was, for a
substantial period of time and may still be, the jail near Port Blair. The company
refers to its affidavit-in-opposition and a letter dated November 16, 2011 issued
by the anti-corruption wing of the Andaman & Nicobar Police. A deputy
 superintendent addressed the said letter to the company enquiring whether any
land had been allotted by the company or the State in Rajarhat for providing
shelter to some permanent residents of the islands or in the name of the
petitioner society. The company places a list of the members of the housing
society, which includes the names of several lawyers and others who
subsequently forwarded sworn affidavits to the company to the effect that neither
they nor any dependent or other relative had applied to purchase any land or
dwelling unit from the company. The original affidavits have been produced in
court. The company places a letter dated October 10, 2011 issued by one of the
persons shown to be a member of the society. The letter expresses surprise at the
company allotting a huge plot of land without verifying the credentials of Sanjay
Chowdhury or the organisation that he sought to represent. According to the
letter, Chowdhury invited applications for membership of the housing cooperative
society by publishing advertisements in The Daily Telegram newspaper published
by the Administration in Port Blair. The company says that many gullible
persons in the islands have complained of being duped by Sanjay Chowdhury
into parting with their money for the housing project. 152. The cancellation of the allotment of a non-residential plot to the petitioner
in WP 7084(W) of 2012 has not been effected since such petition was one of the
earliest and there is an order restraining third party interest being created in
respect of the plot. The petitioner applied on March 28, 2008 for setting up "a
State of the art R&D centre ... which shall fulfill every criteria of yours so as to
make the Township a place immortal." Possibly because of the poetic brilliance of
the application, a 15-cottah non-residential plot was approved by the chairman
under his discretionary quota on February 28, 2011 and the company
communicated such decision to the petitioner company on the same day. The
offer of allotment was made on May 7, 2011 on freehold basis at Rs.5.50 lakh per
cottah. The petition was filed on March 29, 2012 and an initial order was made
on April 12, 2012 that no third party interest be created in respect of the relevant
plot. The interim order may have expired, but the allotment has not been
 cancelled in deference to the matter being in court. However, as in some of the
other cases, a notice was issued by the company to the allottee on September 14,
2011 requesting the allottee "to exercise an option to withdraw" the application
made for the allotment of the plot. It was the company's refusal to accept the
balance consideration for the land that prompted the institution of the petition. 153. The petitioners in WP 2395(W) of 2014 sermonise that HIDCO being an
extension of the State, it has to act in a fair and reasonable manner and not be
unduly suspicious of allotments made prior to the change of government or be
vindictive against the allottees on the imaginary perception of any extraneous
consideration having passed between the allottees and the erstwhile board or
chairman of the company. The reason for the sermon is that the petitioners do
not have any application to show that may have been made within the time
provided by the advertisements issued in Ganashakti and The Echo of India for
applications for non-residential plots in New Town under the chairman's
discretionary quota. The petitioner company wrote identical letters on November
9, 2010 to both the managing director of HIDCO and its chairman, seeking a
one-acre piece of land "for our commercial and ancillary services." It may have
been the quality of the application, particularly the eulogy in the first sentence at
the success of project Rajarhat and the reference to a futuristic and resurgent
West Bengal in the last sentence that impelled the chairman to disregard the
niceties as to the time for making an application and accord approval for a 20-
cottah plot on February 24, 2011. The company intimated the applicant of the
chairman's decision on February 28, 2011. The letter of allotment was issued on
May 2, 2011 for freehold land at Rs.13.364 lakh per cottah. The allotment was
cancelled on December 9, 2013 by citing the model code of conduct and the other
reasons of impropriety as mentioned in similar letters of cancellation of non-
residential allotments. The petitioners complain that the company has not
disclosed its records and insinuate that the company has kept the records up its
sleeve to conceal the real intention behind its apparent drive to cleanse the
 system. However, the petitioners have not called upon the company to produce
any specific records. 154. The company has carried its file pertaining to this petition at the hearing
and the entire records have been offered to the petitioners for inspection in court.
The company refers to paragraph 5 of the petition where it has been pleaded that
the petitioners were impressed with the infrastructure set up in Rajarhat and "by
letters dated 9th November, 2010, your petitioner no.1 ... made an offer to the
Managing Director and Chairman respectively of the respondent no.2 to allot a
piece of land in the New Town ... to the petitioner No.1." In response to such
assertion, the company pointed out at paragraph 5 (d) of its affidavit that the
petitioners' application was made beyond the permitted time and could not have
been considered for any allotment of land being made. The company has also
disclosed at paragraph 8 of its affidavit that it had no application dated
November 9, 2010 in its relevant file, though there was another similar
application bearing a different date. It is alleged in the company's affidavit that
the date on the petitioners' application as available in the company's records "is
obviously antedated and contains the date written in hand." The petitioners'
affidavit-in-reply deals with the statements contained in paragraph 5 (a) to 5 (i) of
the affidavit-in-opposition at paragraph 8 thereof spread over pages 10 to 22
thereof, but fails to deal with the relevant allegation as to the existence of an
ante-dated application in the company's records. 155. The company submits that the stand taken by the petitioners would leave
no room for doubt that they did not make any application earlier than the one
said to have been made on November 9, 2010 for allotment of a non-residential
plot in New Town. The company asserts that if the petitioners do not say that
they had applied earlier than November, 2010 for the allotment despite the
seemingly earlier application and its existence being alluded to in the company's
affidavit, it is baffling that the list appended to the minutes of the meeting of the
screening committee said to have been held on April 28, 2008 ascribes a date of
 February 28, 2008 to the application of these petitioners. The company
maintains that since, on the petitioners' showing, their application was made in
November, 2010, such application could not have been considered by the
screening committee which met for the last time on April 24, 2008. The company
says that the inescapable inference is that the screening committee did not meet
at all and its minutes have been ante-dated and a list containing fictitious details
as to the applications has been referred to in such minutes. The company
submits that if there was no scrutiny of the applications for non-residential plots
and there is intrinsic evidence to show that some of such applications could not
have been made prior to March or April, 2011, the purported approval of such
allotments and the purported letters of intimation have to be regarded as
fabricated. The company says that even if one application approved by the
chairman under his discretionary quota is shown to be ante-dated, the veracity of
the other approvals granted by the chairman would be open to question and none
of the petitioners can be permitted to retain the ill-gotten allotments. 156. Deep into the hearing, the petitioners in WP 21310(W) of 2011, possibly the
first of the petitions pertaining to the cancellation of allotments under the
chairman's quota in New Town, attempted to drop a bombshell by disclosing The
New Town Kolkata (Building) Rules, 2014 as published in The Kolkata Gazette on
March 4, 2014. They refer, in particular, to Rule 24(2) of the said Rules that
provides for the "mixing of the other uses or occupancies with the joint principal
use(s) or occupancy" on the basis of a table set out thereunder. The table permits
25% of the total covered area on all floors to be used for purposes other than
residential accommodation though mercantile, storage, industrial and hazardous
uses are prohibited. The petitioners applied on March 31, 2008 for setting up a
hub "for use by finance professionals/students and entities rendering specialized
financial services." The allotment was approved in principle by the chairman
under his quota on February 28, 2011 for a 15-cottah plot and it was intimated
to the petitioner company on the same day. The offer of allotment was issued on
May 12, 2011 for freehold land at Rs.13.364 lakh per cottah. The company
 requested the allottee to withdraw the application by its letter of September 14,
2011. Upon the allottee's refusal to withdraw the application, the allotment was
cancelled by a letter of October 26, 2011 on the ground that the payment in
terms of the letter of allotment had not been made and the board of directors of
the company had decided, at its meeting of August 19, 2011, to cancel the
allotment. The petitioners complain that in the said Rules of 2014 being framed,
it would be evident that the company had attempted to expedite the progress of
the other projects on land allotted under the chairman's quota that had not been
cancelled. The petitioners maintain that in at least one the allottees of non-
residential land being required to change the status of the allotment from
freehold to leasehold, it is evident that the company endorses some of the
allotments made under the erstwhile chairman's discretionary quota. The
petitioners point out that all the allotments made by the board of the company
have not been disclosed despite an order in such regard. They submit that the
arbitrariness with which the allotments made under the chairman's discretionary
quota is being tainted would have been relevant if any person who had applied
thereunder had complained of the arbitrary rejection of his application. 157. The company submits that the records pertaining to this petition epitomise
the gigantic scam that was the allotment of plots in New Town under the
chairman's discretionary quota. The company says that the application dated
March 31, 2008 relied upon by the petitioners is a fictitious and bogus document
and, despite the attempt at hedging in the opening line thereof, the falsity of the
case would be apparent from the fact that the petitioner company was
incorporated only on March 14, 2011 as would be evident from a copy of its
certificate of incorporation appended as annexure R-5 to the supplementary
affidavit affirmed on behalf of the company on July 12, 2012. It may be necessary
to make an old-fashioned reference to the pleadings in such context. At
paragraph 6(v) of the company's supplementary opposition, it has been stated
that a copy of the certificate of incorporation of the petitioner company was
available in the records of the company. The anomaly is dealt with at paragraph
 7(iii) of the petitioners' reply that "while cancelling the allotment of the plot of
land the respondent No. 1 has not contended any reason in relation to the non-
registration of the company as on the date of application and therefore have
waived its right to create new reasons ..." Later on, in the same sub-paragraph,
the petitioners say that the deponent of the affidavit-in-reply "used to run the
petitioner No. 1 as a partnership firm, and had applied before the Registrar of
Companies in the present name of the petitioner No. 1, which has subsequently
been incorporated in the same name before the Registrar of Companies". Despite
such attempt in the affidavit, which is encouraged in no less measure by
indulgent courts in not awarding appropriate costs against dishonest litigants,
the petitioners have not been able to explain why the individual who signed the
application three years prior to the incorporation of the company described
himself as a director of the company and used a letter head of the company with
a reference to its registered office. Partnership firms do not have directors and,
unlike companies, the principal office of a partnership firm is not referred to as
its registered office. 158. The company says that since the application by these petitioners must
have been made after March 14, 2011, it is obvious that the records pertaining to
the approval and allotment of non-residential plots in New Town under the
chairman's quota have been fabricated and ante-dated to confer undue benefits
for extraneous considerations. The company says that the suspicious
circumstances surrounding the approval of allotments accorded by the chairman
under his discretionary quota would warrant that the cancellation of those
allotments where the land was not transferred is not interfered with. The
company has also relied on the New Town, Kolkata Department Authority Act,
2007 and the Rules framed thereunder to demonstrate that the 2014 Building
Rules relied upon by the petitioners pertain to plots other than those that came
under the control of HIDCO. The 2014 Building Rules relate to areas other than
the plots allotted or are still held by HIDCO. 159. Though none has appeared in support of WP 3816(W) of 2012 at the
relevant time, it is evident that the petitioners had been allotted a 10-cottah non-
residential plot under the chairman's discretionary quota with the letter of
intimation issued on February 28, 2011 and the offer of allotment on May 12,
2011. It does not appear that any notice of cancellation has been issued as the
prayers in the petition pertain to the refusal by the company to accept the
balance payment. 160. The company submits, somewhat tongue in cheek, that it is not without
reason that the petitioners have been shy in appearing in support of the petition
since the petitioners may have, unwittingly, admitted what actually happened in
course of the allotment being made in their favour. Paragraph 3 of the petition is
placed where it has been asserted "that on 28.02.2011 after being successful in
an open auction for purchasing land at Jyoti Basu Nagar by way of quoting the
highest rate ... the petitioners have been allotted" land for setting up a hotel and
a community hall. The application has been disclosed at page 26 of the
opposition. The application carries the hand-written date of March 5, 2008 and
refers to New Town as Jyoti Basu Nagar long before it was sought to be
christened as such. The company says that since the name of this applicant
figured against serial No.548 in the list appended to the scrutiny committee's
minutes of its meeting held on April 28, 2008, it must be concluded that the
meeting was ante-dated as the application had been obviously made much later
than its stated date. 161. The petitioners in WP 4903(W) of 2012 are also not represented. The
petition discloses an e-mail of May 2, 2010 by which the first petitioner, who
claims to be a doctor settled in Australia, requested the chairman of the West
Bengal Industrial Development Corporation Limited to help the first petitioner to
"buy a small piece of land" to set up an institute for treating diabetes. The
request was approved by the committee constituted by the board of directors of
the company at its meeting of February 28, 2011 and on March 1, 2011 the first
 petitioner was intimated thereof. The challenge in the petition is to the
cancellation of the in-principle allotment by the company's letter of September
14, 2011. 162. The company refers to the copy of the certificate of incorporation relating to
the third petitioner company which has been appended to the petition. Such
company was incorporated on May 23, 2011, only after an allotment was made in
the first petitioner's favour. The company refers to a supplementary affidavit filed
by the petitioners where it is admitted that the application to the chairman of the
company was made by the first petitioner only on February 14, 2011. The
company says that if medical facilities were intended to be set up in one or more
pockets in New Town, application should have been invited specifically for such
purpose and an assessment made, rather than approve all applications made,
either by accident or by design, for setting up hospitals or clinics in New Town.
Though the date of the application may otherwise be irrelevant since the
allotment was approved by the board of directors of the company and not under
the chairman's discretionary quota, the swiftness with which the application was
processed appears to be remarkable. 163. The petitioner in WP 4325(W) of 2014 applied to the chairman on February
28, 2008 for allotment of a one-bigha land "to establish a Star-Category Hotel on
main road of New Town ..." The chairman approved the allotment of a eight-
cottah plot on February 24, 2011 and the company informed the allottee
accordingly on February 28, 2011. The offer of allotment was made on April 21,
2011 for freehold land under the chairman's discretionary quota at Rs. 13.364
lakh per cottah. The allotment was cancelled by a letter of December 9, 2013 on
the same grounds as cited in a number of petitions noticed earlier. The company
contends that nothing in the bare-bodied application of April 28, 2008 could have
inspired any right-thinking public authority to approve the allotment in the
applicant's favour. The company expresses surprise as to how the chairman
 could discern from the application that the applicant conformed to the guidelines
for obtaining a non-residential allotment in New Town. 164. The petitioners in WP 30078(W) of 2013 have not been represented to make
any submission, but the petition includes a copy of a deed of conveyance of
August 25, 2008 by which HIDCO sold a plot measuring about 100 sq. m in New
Town to the petitioner company, which is incorporated in the United States of
America. The petition also includes a copy of a letter dated November 8, 2012 by
which the company called upon the allottee to disclose the steps taken by the
allottee for using the land after obtaining possession thereof. Though the allottee
informed the company by a letter of December 15, 2012 that it would start the
construction of the foundation by June 30, 2013, the company called upon the
allottee to return the land by executing a deed of reconveyance since the plot had
not been used for more than four years after possession thereof had been handed
over to the allottee. The primary prayer in the petition is for annulment of the
company's letter of December 20, 2012 by which the land was sought to be
reclaimed. 165. The petitioners in WP 13956(W) of 2014 applied on February 28, 2008 to
set up a vocational training centre. A 10-cottah plot was approved for allotment
on February 24, 2011 and the company intimated the petitioners thereof on
February 28, 2011. The offer of allotment was issued on May 3, 2011 for freehold
land under the chairman's discretionary quota at Rs. 5.50 lakh per cottah. The
letter of cancellation of February 5, 2014 was issued on similar lines as in a
number of cases noticed earlier: the allotment being in breach of the model code
of conduct, the allotment being otherwise improper and the like. The petitioners
assert that the letter of cancellation issued to them is in excess of the final
decision taken by the board of directors of the company on December 1, 2012. 166. In the company's affidavit in this matter, it has indicated how several
persons from the same family including these petitioners, Mohanlal Agarwal and
Shivmangal Securities were allotted three non-residential plots in New Town
 under the chairman's discretionary quota. Shivmangal Securities, the principal
petitioner in WP 5158 (W) of 2013, is controlled by two sons of late Sheokaran
Agarwal. Mohanlal Agarwal, the lead petitioner in WP 2521(W) of 2014, is another
son of late Sheokaran Agarwal. The present petitioners are granddaughters of
late Sheokaran Agarwal. The company submits that even if the chairman's
approval of all the three allotments is taken at face value, it will be evident that
multiple allotments had been made in favour of one family and in derogation of
the guidelines pertaining to non-residential allotments under the chairman's
discretionary quota. 167. A 20-cottah plot allotted under the chairman's discretionary quota for
setting up a shop and office complex is the subject-matter of WP 27109(W) of
2014. The application was made on March 26, 2008 and the "Shopping/office
Complex" that the petitioner company promised to develop was to "provide the
residents of the locality higher standard of living along with opportunities for
MNCs to further develop the region." Such a noble project was too good to lose
and the chairman approved the allotment on February 15, 2011 which the
company communicated to the petitioner company on February 24, 2011. The
offer of allotment was issued on May 2, 2011 at Rs.13.364 lakh per cottah. The
allotment was cancelled on December 2, 2013 on similar grounds as most of the
other non-residential allotments in New Town. The petitioners say that they have
encashed the cheque issued by way of refund without prejudice their contention
that the cancellation of their allotment is illegal. The petitioners refer to the
notification of November 26, 2001 by which the State transferred all the land that
it had acquired for the New Town project to HIDCO. They say since the company
had the authority to sell the land, inter alia, for business and commercial
purposes and the company was obliged to ensure the development of
infrastructure in New Town, it was but natural for the company to allot land for
setting up more than one shopping and office complex. The company's criticism
of the allotment made in favour of these petitioners and the next, as in most
other cases, is that the application lodged could not have satisfied the erstwhile
 chairman that an allotment under his discretionary quota could be made
thereon. 168. The last of the petitions pertaining to the cancellation of allotment of a
non-residential plot is WP 7468 (W) of 2014. The petitioner, who appears to be
the proprietor of a business running three hotels in the State, applied on
February 22, 2008 "to start a modern and sophisticated star quality hotel". The
petitioner claimed as son of the soil to have experience in running hotels in
Digha, Tarapith and Santiniketan. The proposal was approved by the chairman
on February 24, 2011 and such decision was intimated by the company to the
petitioner on February 28, 2011. The offer of allotment for the 15-cottah plot was
issued on April 21, 2011 on freehold basis at Rs.13.405 lakh cottah. The
petitioner claims to have made the entire payment and questions the propriety of
the cancellation of the allotment on the ground that the reasons are generic,
otherwise unconvincing and the insinuation therein is vague and
unsubstantiated. The notice of cancellation of February 5, 2014 is on the same
lines as in several other non-residential allotments including the lead petition.
The company says that the allotment of the plot in favour of this petitioner was
made in dubious circumstances as his application did not refer to any
advertisement and nothing in the application could have informed the erstwhile
chairman that the applicant conformed to the conditions set in the guidelines for
a discretionary allotment. 169. The petitioners who challenge the cancellation of the allotments of
residential plots say that their cases cannot be clubbed with those of the non-
residential allottees since different considerations arise. The general submission
on behalf of the allottees of residential plots whose allotment has been cancelled
is that there has to be an element of discretion available to any executive or an
elected government which cannot be bound in a straight-jacket. They contend
that discretion always involves an element of subjectivity and one man's
subjective exercise of his discretion on appropriate principles may be found to be
 arbitrary by another person from his stand-point or perception. These petitioners
suggest that as long as another person similarly situated as one of the aspiring
allottees of a residential plot under the chairman's discretionary quota does not
complain of being discriminated against, the discretion exercised in favour of an
allottee of a residential plot cannot be questioned. 170. The petitioners pertaining to the allotment of residential plots assert that
auction can never be the only method of selling residential plots as only persons
with deep pockets would then corner all residential estate; and that would lead to
increased disparity and concentration of resources in the hands of a few. 171. On the issue of hostile discrimination, these petitioners question the
rationale of the classification by the company and its new board in picking only
those who had been communicated the decision of the allotment of residential
plots in their favour on February 28, 2011. They say that it is evident from the
letters of intimation (some of the petitioners insist the letters of intimation are,
indeed, the letters of allotment that cannot be resiled from) issued to them that
the approval was accorded to their applications by the chairman under his
discretionary quota on various dates. They submit that the accidental choice of
the company to issue the letters of intimation to some allottees on February 28,
2011 cannot be made the basis for making a distinction between the allottees of
residential plots under the chairman's quota. They assert, just as the rejected
allottees of non-residential plots also do, that they cannot be seen to be at fault
for the company choosing to issue the letter of intimation to them on a particular
date. These petitioners demonstrate that a large number of allottees of residential
plots, who were informed of their allotment a few days before these petitioners,
have been allowed to retain their allotments as, in the wisdom of the company
and its new board, there is a discernible distinction between the two classes of
allottees merely on the basis of the date of issuance of the letters. 172. One of the principal grounds canvassed by these petitioners is that the
chairman invited applications for residential plots in New Town in several
 newspapers including The Statesman and The Asian Age in English and
Anandabazar Patrika, Sambad Pratidin, Aajkaal, Bartamaan and Ganashakti in
Bengali. Copies of the advertisements issued in several newspapers have been
appended to a number of the petitions. 173. The petitioners in WP 65(W) of 2014 appear to have applied both in English
and in Bengali for a residential plot. In the application made in English the
applicant claimed to belong to a "Landloser's family", but in the Bengali
application the applicant said that her family had land in Ghuni mouza and
Thakdari mouza which her brothers had sold to HIDCO. Though she also claimed
that the rest of the family land had been acquired by the State, she did not
furnish any details of the acquisition. Curiously, the applicant indicated her
address to be within the New Town Police Station and the copy of the Bengali
application available in the records shows it to be dated in hand as September
27, 2006, but the New Town Police Station was set up by a government
notification only on February 20, 2007. Further, the letter of intimation issued to
the petitioner on February 28, 2011 pursuant to the chairman's approval in her
favour on February 25, 2011 did not refer to any application; though in other
cases where the applications are on record, the relevant application is referred to
in the letter of intimation. The offer of allotment was issued to the applicant on
May 26, 2011 for a 2.24 cottah freehold plot under the chairman's discretionary
quota at a total price of Rs.6.72 lakh. The allotment was cancelled by a letter of
October 9, 2013 only on the ground that the intimation of the allotment was
issued to the allottee "just prior to the date of declaration of General Election and
enforcement of model code of conduct ..." 174. Apart from pointing out the reference to New Town police station in an
application that was apparently made prior to such police station being notified,
the company has disclosed a Bengali application carrying a hand-written date of
September 27, 2006 by this applicant. The company says that nothing in either
application made by this applicant indicated her income or even the family
 income for the chairman to consider it appropriate to approve an allotment under
his discretionary quota. 175. The petitioners in the first petition pertaining to a residential plot refer to
several perceived anomalies. They refer to the charts disclosed in the
supplementary affidavit filed by the company in WP 5158(W) of 2013. They say
that such charts reveal that though only possession of 105 residential plots in
New Town were made over to allottees under the chairman's discretionary quota
between 2003 and 2010, 147 allottees under the chairman's discretionary quota
obtained possession of the plots allotted to them between 2011 and 2014. If what
these petitioners claim is true, then it would be evident that there were 252
allotments made under the chairman's discretionary quota relating to residential
plots where possession had been made over to the allottees and another 113
residential plots were allotted under the chairman's discretionary quota where
possession has not yet been handed over but the allotments have not been
cancelled. 176. On an analysis of the charts pertaining to allotment of residential plots
made under the chairman's discretionary quota, these petitioners show that
allotments made to Abhijit Saha and Dipak Kumar Bhattacharya, where the
letters of intimation were also issued on February 28, 2011, were not cancelled
though such allottees are on the same footing as the petitioners herein. It is
evident from the relevant chart at page 180 of the said supplementary affidavit
that possession of the plot was made over to Saha on April 29, 2011 and to
Bhattacharya on May 30, 2011. As per the charts appended to the said
supplementary affidavit, 59 applicants other than the petitioners herein, were
allotted residential plots under the chairman's discretionary quota in February,
2008. The petitioners suggest that at least the said Saha, Bhattacharya and Rajiv
Kumar, who were all issued the letters of intimation on February 28, 2011 like
these petitioners, should have been treated in like manner. They show that in Kumar 's case the allotment is said to have been cancelled but is now being
"reconsidered for removal of certain anomalies." 177. There are some features in the second of the petitions pertaining to the
cancellation of an allotment of a residential plot, WP 67 (W) of 2014, which are
similar to the first petition in such regard. The petitioner here also claims to be a
land-loser in his application made on September 27, 2006, the same date that
the previous petitioner also applied in an identical form. As in the previous case,
this petitioner also indicated his address within the New Town Police Station at a
time when such police station had not been set up. However, that this petitioner
was a land-loser is evident from the copy of an award appended to his petition.
The letter of intimation in his favour was issued by the company on February 28,
2011 indicating that the chairman had approved the allotment under his
discretionary quota on February 25, 2011 for a 2.24-cottah plot in the MIG-
individual category. No formal offer of allotment was issued to this petitioner. It
appears that the initial deposit on account of application money as demanded by
the letter of intimation was not paid by this petitioner. He made an undated
application to the company for extension of the time to make the initial payment,
whereupon the company permitted the same by a notice of May 12, 2011. The
allotment was cancelled by a notice of October 9, 2013 on the ground that the
allotment had been made immediately prior to the model code of conduct coming
into effect. 178. The company has disclosed the application in its affidavit. The company
alleges that there is a similar form of application in several of the residential
matters which would indicate that the documents may have been fabricated. In
this case, the applicant disclosed an intention to purchase an HIG plot, but later
in the application indicated the category to be MIG. The company says that since
this application was similar to that of the first residential petition, it carried the
identical reference to New Town Police Station a year before such police station
was set up. 179. The next petitioners, whose allotment of another 2.24-cottah plot under the
MIG-individual category has been cancelled, also applied, coincidentally, on
September 27, 2006. Such petitioners in WP 68(W) of 2014 did not refer to the
New Town Police Station while indicating their residential address in the
application, but sought an allotment in "Jyoti Basu Nagar" in the year 2006
when the then former Chief Minister was still alive and long before New Town,
Kolkata was christened "Jyoti Basu Nagar" by a government notification of
September 27, 2010. Like the previous petitioner, these petitioners were also shy
to disclose the application and it required the company to reveal the same in its
opposition. As in the cases of the previous allottees of residential plots under the
chairman's discretionary quota, nothing in the application of these petitioners
disclosed how the application conformed to the guidelines for allotment under the
relevant quota. The letter of intimation was issued to the petitioners on February
28, 2011, following the chairman's approval for the allotment on February 25,
2011. No formal offer of allotment was made to the petitioners and the tentative
allotment was cancelled by a notice of October 9, 2013 only on the ground of the
allotment being made prior to the model code of conduct becoming effective. 180. The company claims that the application by these petitioners was made
after New Town had been named Jyoti Basu Nagar in October, 2010 and has
been shown to have been made on September 27, 2006. The company suggests
that the reference to Jyoti Basu Nagar in the application would demonstrate that
the meeting of the committee to scrutinise residential application was ante-dated
as its meeting could not have been held on May 24, 2007 to consider an
application that was made after October 21, 2010 when New Town was renamed
as Jyoti Basu Nagar. The company also points out that the formal application in
the form as supplied by the company to the petitioners is shown to have been
received on May 2, 2012 though an affidavit of the joint applicant in the
company's file is dated May 26, 2011. The company has alleged at paragraph 8(h)
 in its affidavit in this matter that the application form was submitted along with
the affidavit more than 60 days after the issuance of the letter of allotment. 181. The petitioners in WP 70(W) of 2014 applied to set up a cooperative
housing complex. The application made on September 27, 2006, as in the three
previous cases, was not disclosed in the petition. The company has carried a
copy of such application in its affidavit. The principal promoter of the proposed
cooperative society claimed in the application that most of the applicants had
made over their land for project New Town. The applicants also referred to the
New Town Police Station several months before the Police Station was set up by a
notification of February 20, 2007. The letter of intimation in favour of the
petitioners was issued on February 28, 2011 upon the chairman approving the
allotment on February 25, 2011. The petitioners have also relied on a copy of the
signed minutes of the screening committee of May 24, 2007 that found that all
the applications for cooperative housing projects were in order and recommended
them for allotment. No formal offer of allotment indicating any schedule of
payment was issued to these petitioners. The tentative allotment was cancelled
by a letter of December 1, 2012 on the ground that the matter had been reviewed
by the company and as per the decision of its board of directors on October 22,
2011, the offer stood cancelled. Apart from assailing the grounds indicated in the
notice of cancellation, the petitioners say that the decision taken at the board
meeting of the company on October 22, 2011 stands eclipsed by the decision on
the allotment of plots in New Town taken at the 70th board meeting of the
company held on December 1, 2012. 182. The petitioners in WP 37136 (W) of 2013 applied for a plot under the bulk
cooperative category. The applicants claimed to be football players "of highly
esteemed football clubs of Bvengal (sic, Bengal) ... and representing Bengal/India
(in the) National and International football arena ..." The applicants named in the
copy of the undated application appended to the petition include one Susmita
Saha, another Indrani Sen and a Nishant Mundhra. An altogether different copy
 of the application is available in the company's records as disclosed by it in its
affidavit. The names of the three noticed above were not mentioned among the 20
applicants and several other names included in the application disclosed in the
petition did not figure in the application disclosed by the company. Curiously,
the application in the company's records is dated September 27, 2006 (which is
written in hand), the same date on which several other applications pertaining to
residential allotments appear to have been lodged. The petitioners have disclosed
the copy of a two-page document signed by the erstwhile chairman on February
22, 2011 by which allotment of plots was approved in respect of 34 cooperative
societies. The document indicates that such application had been received
pursuant to an advertisement published in September, 2006. The document also
reveals that the approval was made in the light of the recommendation made by
the screening committee. The relevant committee had recommended the cases on
May 24, 2007, as would be evident from the terse minutes of such committee
disclosed as annexure P-4 to the petition. The letter of intimation was issued on
February 28, 2011 and the offer of allotment was issued on May 21, 2011 for a
13.45 cottah plot on freehold basis at a total consideration of about Rs.44 lakh.
The petitioners claim to have made full payment for the allotment before it was
sought to be cancelled by a letter of October 8, 2013 on the ground that the
allotment had been made just prior to the model code coming into effect. Prior to
the issuance of the letter of cancellation, the company had advised its bankers to
not accept any further payment in respect of certain allotments made under the
chairman' discretionary quota. The name of the petitioners' cooperative society
figured in the list appended to the company's letter to the bank dated October 31,
2011. The petitioners have denied the authenticity of the signature appearing in
company's copy of the application. They say that their allotment was made in the
usual course by reason of their contribution to football and the ground on which
the allotment has been cancelled is untenable. 183. The company points out that apart from the discrepancies in the two
applications, several of the persons who are shown as members of the proposed
cooperative society are not the petitioners herein. 184. Several employees of Howrah Improvement Trust complain in WP 5562(W)
of 2014 that their bonafide application for the allotment of a plot in New Town to
set up a cooperative housing complex has been arbitrarily cancelled. The copy of
the application appended to the petition is undated, but the copy thereof in the
company's records carries the same date of September 27, 2006 as the previous
applications for residential plots noticed herein. The petitioners assert that as
government employees or employees in a government undertaking, the
petitioners were entitled to be considered on a separate footing than the other
applicants. The letter of intimation of February 28, 2011 informed them of the
chairman's approval of the allotment under his discretionary quota on February
21, 2011. The offer of allotment of a 5.98 cottah plot on freehold basis was made
on May 12, 2011 at a total price of about Rs.19.73 lakh. These petitioners also
refer to the instructions issued by the company to its relevant banker on October
31, 2011 to not receive further payments from several allottees under the
chairman's quota. The name of the petitioners' cooperative society, however, does
not figure in the chart appended to the company's instructions to the relevant
bank on October 31, 2011. The allotment was cancelled on October 8, 2013 by
the company on the ground that the tentative allotment had been made only a
day prior to the model code of conduct becoming effective. 185. The company refers to the copy of the application in its file. Such
document, a copy whereof appears at page 26 of the company's affidavit, carries
a date of September 27, 2006 written in hand. As noticed in several other matters
pertaining to allotment of residential plots, this date seems to have been favoured
by most of the successful allottees. The handwriting of the same date in several
of the application looks similar. The company, however, emphasises on the
writing and the date of the application. In the copy of the application bearing the
 hand-written date in the company's records, the document refers to the minutes
of a meeting of the proposed cooperative society held on May 19, 2007. The
minutes of such meeting are also appended to the application with the signatures
of the persons attending the same. The company says that the application could
never have been considered since it was filed beyond time and has been
obviously ante-dated by overlooking the reference to a later date in the
document. The company has specifically referred to such alarming feature
evident from the application at paragraph 5 (f) of its affidavit. No affidavit-in-
reply has been filed by the petitioners. 186. The petitioner in WP 5566(W) of 2014 was allotted a 2.99 cottah plot in the
HIG-I individual category at about Rs.3.57 lakh per cottah. The petitioner has
disclosed an undated application made by him to the erstwhile chairman which
the petitioner claims, on the basis of the rubber-stamp and the handwriting
thereon, was received by the company on June 27, 2010. It is necessary to see, if
only as an example, the manner in which the petitioner applied and the
particulars disclosed in the application in the context of the guidelines fixed by
the company for allotment of residential plots under the chairman's discretionary
quota: With such particulars as above, the erstwhile chairman reckoned that the
petitioner complied with the guidelines for an allotment to be approved in the
petitioner's favour. The guidelines for allotment of residential plots under the
chairman's discretionary quota, as disclosed by the company, are worth noticing,
particularly to assess the objective that the discretionary quota sought to serve
and the eligibility criteria: The 34 allotments that were approved by the chairman, as evident from the
relevant document of February 22. 2011, pertained to individual plots and plots
for cooperative buildings in various categories. The offer of allotment was issued
to this petitioner on May 11, 2011. Such allotment was cancelled by a letter of
October 9, 2013 only on the ground that the letter of intimation pertaining to the
approval of the allotment in the petitioner's favour had been issued on February
28, 2011, a day before the election schedule was announced and the model code
of conduct became operative. Like several petitioners before him, this petitioner
says that he was not at fault in applying for a plot and the additional reasons
indicated in the company's affidavit for the cancellation of the allotment made in
his favour should not be countenanced as such reasons were not mentioned in
the impugned notice of cancellation. This petitioner insists that he was eligible to
apply under the applicable guidelines and the approval of the allotment in his
favour by the erstwhile chairman must be presumed to have been made on
relevant considerations. 187. The petitioner in WP 2735(W) of 2014 has not disclosed the application he
made for the allotment of an individual residential plot. The petition claims,
without specifying when the petitioner applied for a plot, that the petitioner was
"very much impressed with the progress of development work that was being
 carried out by the authorities of HIDCO in the said New Town project and
accordingly decided to purchase a plot of land and settle there and accordingly
made application ..." There is no attempt by this petitioner to indicate whether he
was eligible for an allotment under the chairman's discretionary quota or that he
made the application pursuant to any advertisement that he noticed. The letter of
intimation was issued to this petitioner on February 28, 2011 on the basis of the
chairman's approval of the allotment on February 22, 2011. The offer of
allotment was issued to him on May 3, 2011 for a 4.48 cottah plot in the HIGI-II
category on freehold basis at a total price of slightly over Rs.16 lakh. The
allotment was cancelled by a letter of October 8, 2013, only on the ground that
the letter of allotment had been issued to the petitioner a day before the model
code of conduct became effective. It must not be missed that this petitioner was
the private secretary to the minister-in-charge of the Department of Sunderban
Affairs, Sports and Youth Services. Apart from the usual ground of questioning
the cancellation for the frivolity of the reason cited therein, the petitioner has
raised a serious constitutional issue of propriety that when the erstwhile
chairman of the company had approved the allotment of the plot in his favour, a
lowly general manager could not have issued the notice of cancellation. 188. In its opposition to the petition, the company has spoken of a copy of an
application in its file bearing the date of January 12, 2011 which was long after
the time for making applications for residential plots under the chairman's quota
had expired. The records produced by the company, however, reveal an
application in Bengali made on September 26, 2006, but bearing a reference to
Jyoti Basu Nagar several years before the name of New Town was sought to be
renamed thus. 189. WP 2558(W) of 2014 has been carried by a lawyer practising in Siliguri. The
petitioner has not appended the copy of any application that he may have lodged
for allotment of a residential plot in his favour under the chairman's
discretionary quota. Paragraph 20 of his petition says that in the middle of 2013
 he came to learn that several writ petitions had been moved in this court for
setting aside similar orders of cancellation of allotments as the petitioner had
suffered. It was then that the petitioner started looking for the necessary
documents. The rest of the paragraph needs to be seen in the petitioner's words: 190. Thus, the "non-essential" document as the application that may have been
made by the petitioner was not referred to or relied on in the petition. There is,
however, an assertion at paragraph 4 of the petition that the "petitioner made an
application in 2010 to the respondent no. 1 for allotment of land against the
chairman's discretionary quota." The first respondent to the petition is the State
of West Bengal, through the principal secretary in the Department of Housing.
The letter of intimation was issued to the petitioner on February 28, 2011
informing him of the chairman's approval of the petitioner's allotment on the
same day. The petitioner's plot of 4.48 cottah was in the HIGI-II category at
Rs.3.575 lakh per cottah on freehold basis. The petitioner has made no attempt
to even suggest that he conformed to the eligibility criteria laid down in the
rudimentary guidelines set by the company for allotment of residential plots
under the chairman's discretionary quota. The petitioner's allotment was
cancelled by a letter of September 14, 2011 only on the ground of the letter of
intimation having been issued to him a day before the model code came into
effect. 191. The company submits that since this petitioner applied only in 2010,
which was long after September, 2006 till when applications for allotment of
residential plots under the chairman's discretionary quota could be received, it is
evident that the approval of the allotment of a plot in the petitioner's favour was
 irregular and on extraneous considerations. The company further states that
since this petitioner did not submit the formal application within 60 days of the
date of the letter of intimation, no offer of allotment was issued to him and no
plot was identified. The company maintains that in the absence of any offer of
allotment indicating the plot being issued to any aspiring allottee, it is not
necessary to withdraw the letter of intimation; though, by way of courtesy, the
petitioner was informed of the cancellation of the approval of his allotment made
by the erstwhile chairman. 192. The petitioners in WP 34290(W) of 2013 have also not disclosed the
application made for a residential plot. As to when the petitioners made the
application is completely glossed over in the petition and the narration therein
begins with the letter of intimation dated February 28, 2011 issued by the
company upon the chairman approving the allotment on February 25, 2011. The
offer of allotment of the 2.99 cottah plot under the HIGI-I category on freehold
basis was made on May 26, 2011 at a total consideration of Rs.10.68 lakh. It is
also some significance that as in the present case, several of the beneficiaries
under the chairman's quota were allotted corner residential plots. The allotment
was cancelled by a letter of October 9, 2013 on the ground that the intimation of
allotment was issued a day before the model code of conduct became effective.
Upon this petition being received on November 28, 2013, an interim order was
passed that restrained any third party interest in respect of the relevant plot
being created. The petitioners were also given leave to encash the cheque by
which the money deposited was refunded, without prejudice to their rights
herein. 193. The company claims that neither did these petitioners disclose the copy of
any application made for allotment of a residential plot under the chairman's
discretionary quota nor does the company's file pertaining to the allotment in this
matter contain any application. The company refers to the vague averments in
paragraph 4 of the petition and demonstrates that such averments are a
 repetition of what appears in the petition pertaining to WP 2735(W) of 2014.
According to the company, given the dubious circumstances surrounding several
other allotments made under the chairman's discretionary quota, the allotment
made in this case should also be regarded as irregular and based on extraneous
considerations. In any event, the company asserts that nothing in the petition
demonstrates that these petitioners fulfilled the criteria to obtain an allotment of
a residential plot under the chairman's discretionary quota. 194. A 21-cottah plot under the bulk cooperative category was allotted in favour
of the next lot of petitioners in WP 224(W) of 2014. The petitioners applied in
2008 and, in the petition, they have called upon the company to produce a copy
of their application. The letter of intimation was issued to the chief promoter of
Lambodar Cooperative Housing Society Limited on February 28, 2011 upon the
chairman approving the allotment on February 22, 2011. However, no
"Lambodar" has been impleaded as a party to the present proceedings though the
petitioner no. 8 is a HUF and such petitioner's name was also included among
the 32 members of the relevant cooperative society. No offer of allotment
indicating any payment schedule was issued to these petitioners, but the
petitioners claim to have paid the full consideration. The payment made by the
petitioners indicates another corner-plot allotment under the chairman's quota.
The tentative allotment was cancelled on identical lines as in several other
residential allotments by the generic letter of October 9, 2013. These petitioners
insist that if the allotments under the chairman's discretionary quota were per se
considered to be improper or illegal, all the allotments should have been
cancelled and not only a few. They maintain that it is only upon the change of the
political party in power in the State that the petitioners have suffered this fate
based on the conjectures of the present board of the company as to the
circumstances in which allotments were made under the chairman's quota. 195. The company submits that as in several other matters, including WP
2735(W) of 2014 and WP 34290(W) of 2013, no copy of the application made by
 these petitioners have been disclosed, though the petitioners attempted to be
clever by calling upon the company to produce a copy of their application. The
company says that the petitioners were aware that they had been allotted a piece
of land in an irregular manner and on irrelevant considerations and sought to
cover up the irregularity by being aggressive and demanding that the company
produce a copy of their application. The company insists that it is inconceivable
that an application for the allotment of a plot would be made by any person to a
government body, but a copy thereof would not be retained. The company also
points out the casual statement in the petition that "Sometime in the year 2008,
the petitioners herein applied to HIDCO for a plot of land at New Town ..."
appearing in the third paragraph of the petition. The company says that the
petitioners do not claim to have made an application pursuant to any
advertisement and, in the year 2008, no application could have been received by
the company or its erstwhile chairman for allotment of any residential plot in
New Town under the discretionary quota. 196. The petitioner in WP 5550(W) of 2012 applied on September 25, 2006 for
an individual plot in the MIG category. The application referred to an
advertisement published in an unnamed newspaper on September 9, 2006 but it
did not indicate how the petitioner was eligible to seek an allotment under the
chairman's discretionary quota in accordance with the guidelines declared by the
company. The letter of intimation was issued to the petitioner on February 28,
2011 on the basis of the chairman's approval of the allotment in her favour on
the same day. The allotment was for a 2.24 cottah plot at Rs. 3 lakh per cottah.
The tentative allotment was cancelled on the ground of the model code of conduct
by the company's letter of September 14, 2011. The company has claimed in its
affidavit in this matter that even the initial application money was not paid by
the petitioner within time as it was deposited only on June 3, 2011. 197. The company says that the belated deposit of the application money by this
petitioner was returned to her by a cheque bearing No.306261 drawn on
 Syndicate Bank, New Town Branch dated September 14, 2011 which was
encashed by the petitioner by October 28, 2011. The company has relied on a
copy of its relevant bank statement in its affidavit. The petitioner has admitted,
at paragraph 21 (f) of her affidavit-in-reply, that she has encashed the cheque by
which the application money was refunded to her. The company,
understandably, suggests that implicit in the petitioner's encashment of the
cheque was the acceptance of the cancellation of the allotment made in her
favour and the petitioner can no longer be heard to complain of such
cancellation. 198. The petition in WP 23157(W) 2012 is similar to the first two petitions
pertaining to residential allotments. No copy of the application has been
disclosed in the petition and the company says that such omission is for good
reason: since the copy of the application dated September 27, 2006 (again,
written in hand) refers to New Town as "Jyoti Basu Upanagari" long before New
Town was sought to be named after the former Chief Minister. The letter of
intimation was issued by the company to the petitioner on February 28, 2011 on
the basis of the chairman's approval of the allotment on the same day. The offer
of allotment of the 2.99 cottah freehold plot under the HIG-I individual category
was issued to the petitioner on May 21, 2011 and it demanded a total price of
about Rs.10.68 lakh. The allotment was cancelled by a letter of September 14,
2011 by citing the model code of conduct coming into effect on the day following
the issuance of the letter of intimation. 199. The company says that the photocopy of the petitioner's application in the
company's records does not match with the copy of the application disclosed in
the petition. It is plain to see that the signature on the two copies of the similar
document, as disclosed in the petition and in the affidavit-in-opposition, are not
the same. In the copy of the document appended to the petition the date is
written in Bengali; in the copy that remains in the company's file, the date is in
English. There is a mobile telephone number which is written under the address
 in the document relied upon by the petitioner and under the signature in the
document in the company's file. The company has disclosed three sets of
documents in its affidavit. The first is a list containing the names of 59 allottees
whose allotments were apparently approved by the chairman on February 28,
2011. The document is signed by the officer on special duty to the then chairman
and is dated February 28, 2011. The next two documents contain two lists, the
first spread over three pages with the chairman's signature and the date of
February 28, 2011 on the last page; and the other list bearing 10 names with the
chairman's signature and the date of February 28, 2011 thereon. The company
says that apart from the fact that none of the approvals accorded by the
chairman indicated any reasons in support thereof, it is inconceivable that
during the busy day that was February 28, 2011 in the office of HIDCO, the
chairman could have had the time to meaningfully consider any of the
applications. The company says that the four-page note of the officer on special
duty to the then chairman qualified the approval of the allotments as being
"subject to fulfilling eligibility condition". The company questions the rationale of
the approval without the eligibility of the applicants being assessed and without
ensuring that they conformed to the disclosed guidelines. 200. The next petition stands on a completely different footing than the other
matters. The petitioner in WP 4470(W) of 2012 was allotted a 5.98 cottah plot
under the HIG(C) cooperative category as the chief promoter of the relevant
society. The petitioner claims to have applied by an undated letter, a copy
whereof appears at page 24 of the petition. The company has, however, disclosed
a similar application in its records which carries a printed date of July 24, 2007
at the top and a handwritten date at the bottom. The handwritten date appears
to have been the most auspicious for prospective allottees: September 27, 2006.
The petitioner seeks to brush aside the several anomalies pertaining to the
application pointed out by the company on the ground that the cancellation of
the allotment was on an erroneous and fictitious ground. The letter of intimation
was issued to the petitioner on February 26, 2011 pursuant to the approval by
 the chairman on February 10, 2011. However, the notice of cancellation of
December 14, 2011 informed the petitioner that the letter of allotment had been
"inadvertently" issued as the allotment was not intended to be made in favour of
the petitioner's cooperative society. When the petition was received on March 5,
2012, it was pointed out on behalf of the company that the allotment of the same
plot had been made in favour another society (which has instituted the next
petition referred to herein). On May 16, 2012 an order was made on this petition
restraining third party rights being created in respect of the plot in question. 201. The next petition, WP 13996(W) of 2013, is by the chief promoter of
another cooperative society which was allotted the same plot No.IIIA-2252 under
Action Area IIIA of New Town in the MIG(C) category that had apparently been
mistakenly allotted to the cooperative society in WP 4470(W) of 2012. The
petitioner in this case apparently made an application on September 26, 2006 for
allotment of a residential plot to set up a cooperative complex in New Town. The
application claimed that the members of the housing cooperative society were
unsuccessful in obtaining an allotment, presumably under the lottery therefor
conducted by the company. The letter of allotment was issued for a 5.01 cottah
plot on February 28, 2011 on the basis of the chairman's approval thereof on the
same day. The offer of allotment was made on May 11, 2011 at a total
consideration of about Rs.13.78 lakh. The company issued a similar letter of
September 14, 2011 as in several other cases calling upon the petitioner to
withdraw the application. The allotment was cancelled by a notice of February
28, 2013 only on the ground that the letter of intimation was issued a day before
the model code came into effect. 202. The company says that the photocopy of the application in its file bears the
tell-tale sign as in several other applications which were approved for allotment
by the chairman under his discretionary quota, in the date being hand-written in
a printed letter. The company submits that it is unnatural that a printed
application for something as important as an allotment of a plot of land made to
 a government body would remain undated or the date would be written in hand.
The company suggests that it would be too much of a coincidence for so many of
successful applicants under the chairman's discretionary quota citing undated
applications or printed applications where the date is written in hand. The
company's file pertaining to this matter that has been carried to court and offered
inspection of to advocate for the petitioner carries the copy of what appears to be
a recommendation of this petitioner's application by another minister or the office
of such other minister. 203. The petitioners in WP 3245(W) of 2012 are lawyers practising in this court.
The petitioners claim to have applied on September 26, 2006 for the allotment of
a plot to set up a cooperative housing complex, but no copy of the application
has been disclosed in the petition. The letter of intimation was issued to the
petitioners on February 28, 2011 following the chairman's approval of the
allotment under the discretionary quota on the same day. The offer of allotment
was made on May 18, 2011 for a 5.98 cottah plot on freehold basis at a
consideration of about Rs.19.73 lakh. As in the cases of several other allottees of
residential plots, the petitioners were required by the company's letter of
September 14, 2011 to withdraw the application on the ground that the
allotment under the chairman's discretionary quota was made a day before the
model code came into effect. The allotment has, however, not yet been cancelled
since the petition has been pending from or about February, 2012. 204. Apart from the company questioning the propriety of the chairman's
approval of the allotment of a residential plot in these petitioners' favour along
with a host of others on a busy February 28, 2011, it points out several
anomalies pertaining to this matter that have been detailed in its affidavit. The
eight who apparently applied in September, 2006 are not all parties to the
petition. The application has not been disclosed in the petition, but paragraph 2 (c) of the company's affidavit says that one Kazi Abrarullah, who was shown to be
a joint applicant in the purported application, was not enrolled with the Bar
 Council at the relevant point of time. The company also asserts that the second-
named applicant in the purported application is neither a petitioner nor does
such person support the allotment. At least two of the original applicants,
according to the company, were not members of the Bar Association. The
company has produced its records which contain a copy of an application of
September 27, 2006 wherein the applicants claimed in the first sentence as
follows: 205. The next lot of petitioners in WP 12617(W) of 2012 has also complained of
the cancellation of a plot allotted to a cooperative housing society. No copy of any
application that may have been made by the petitioners for allotment of a plot in
New Town in their favour has been disclosed in the petition, though paragraph 6
of the petition says that the application was allotted a number, 8646, by the
company. The letter of intimation was issued to the chief promoter of the
proposed cooperative housing society on February 28, 2011 upon the chairman
approving the allotment on February 22, 2011. The offer of allotment was issued
on May 2, 2011 for a 5.98 cottah plot on freehold basis in the HIG-C category at
a total price of about Rs.19.73 lakh. The petition was instituted upon the
instalments sought to be tendered by the petitioners not being accepted by the
concerned bank. Following a query under the Right to Information Act , the
company informed the chief promoter of the society that the instructions issued
by the company to its bankers to not receive further payments relating to certain
allotment of plots in New Town were on the strength of "a Resolution passed by
the Board of Directors of WBHIDCO Ltd. which speaks that in view of the wishes
of the State Govt. and more particularly in view of allotments made/issued just
before implementation of the Code of Conduct ... approval was accorded to
cancellation of all such plots concerned." Notwithstanding such assertion in the
company's response to the query on April 26, 2012, there does not appear to be
 any formal letter of cancellation of the allotment, presumably because the
petition was filed in the year 2012. 206. WP 18529(W) of 2013 was among the petitions taken up for hearing, but it
was dismissed as not pressed on April 16, 2015. 207. One of the rejected joint allottees in WP 36084(W) of 2013 was the director
(engineering) of the West Bengal Housing Board when he applied for a plot in
New Town on February 14, 2011. This matter lends credence to how some of the
applications may have been processed before they culminated in allotments being
made under the chairman's discretionary quota. Within 10 days of the
application being made, it received the approval of the chairman. It is evident
that this application did not receive any attention of the screening or other
committee since there was virtually no time between the application being made
and it being approved. The letter of intimation was issued to the applicant on
February 28, 2011. The letter of allotment forwarded an application form, just as
such letters in the cases of other residential plots had also forwarded formal
application forms. The application form, along with documents in support
thereof, appears to have been submitted by the petitioners jointly. The offer of
allotment of a 2.99 cottah HIG-I plot on freehold basis was made on May 2, 2011
at a total price of about Rs.10.69 lakh. The allotment was cancelled by a notice of
October 8, 2013 on the same ground that the approval of the allotment was
communicated to the allottee a day before the model code became effective. These
petitioners make several points, including that they should not suffer for the
perceived arbitrariness of allotments under the erstwhile chairman's
discretionary quota. They overlook the fact that the application for the allotment
did not mention how the applicant was eligible for consideration under the
chairman's discretionary quota, but assert that the formal application submitted
by them subsequent to the approval being granted by the chairman included all
material to demonstrate that the petitioners were eminently qualified to obtain an
allotment under the discretionary quota. They refer to the company's affidavit to
 suggest that irrelevant considerations were taken into account in cancelling their
allotment. They also read out several other names from one of the charts
appended to the company's supplementary affidavit filed in WP 5158(W) of 2013
to suggest that they have been picked out for hostile discrimination. In the
company's affidavit in this matter it has been alleged that these petitioners
applied on September 27, 2006, which was the last day for seeking allotments
under the chairman's discretionary quota. The petitioners assert that they did
not apply on September 27, 2006. They claim that the allottees of residential
plots under the chairman's discretionary quota named against serial Nos. 317 to
356 of the relevant chart at page 178 of the said supplementary affidavit,
including a joint secretary in the Housing Department and the Housing
Commissioner, stood on the same footing as these petitioners, but such other
allotments had not been cancelled and most of such allottees had been made
over possession of their plots in 2013 and 2014, long after the perceived
anomalies in the allotment of residential plots under the chairman's
discretionary quota were apparently discovered. The relevant allottees whose
names figure against serial Nos.317 to 356 at page 178 of the supplementary
affidavit were all informed of the approval of the allotments in their favour in
February, 2011 and the approval in almost every case was accorded in January
or February of the same year. The petitioners say that the joint secretary in the
Housing Department, whose name figures against serial No.322, was given
possession of the relevant plot on February 4, 2013 and the Housing
Commissioner, whose name figures against serial No.334, was given possession
on January 16, 2013. The petitioners claim that if the allotments made in favour
of several cooperative societies, as evident from page 179 of the supplementary
affidavit, were not cancelled despite the cooperative societies not being registered
at the time that such supplementary affidavit was affirmed in May, 2014, there
was no reason to cancel the allotments which were intimated to the allottees on
February 28, 2011. The petitioners submit that it was the company which chose
to intimate the petitioners of the chairman's approval of their allotments on
February 28, 2011 and it defies logic that an allotment approved on February 18,
 2011 would pass muster under the scrutiny that the allotments made by the
chairman under his discretionary quota have been subjected to, but an approval
on February 24, 2011 would be caught in the dragnet merely because the letter
of intimation was issued on February 28, 2011. 208. The company says that these petitioners were ineligible for any allotment
under the chairman's discretionary quota since the application was filed only on
February 14, 2011. The company says the arbitrariness in the allotments of plots
under the chairman's discretionary quota would be evident from the fact that this
application was even entertained and processed. The company refers to the
principal petitioner's name figuring against serial No. 266 in the list appended to
the minutes of the committee appointed to examine the applications for
residential plots held on May 24, 2007. The first applicant is described as the
director (engineering) of the West Bengal Housing Board in such list. Paragraph
4(b) of the company's affidavit claims that the first petitioner did not hold the
post of director (engineering) of the Housing Board on February 27, 2006 when
he is shown to have applied. According to the company, the inclusion of the first
petitioner's name in the list of the applications purportedly scrutinised by the
relevant committee on May 24, 2007 would demonstrate that such minutes
cannot be believed and ought to be seen as fabricated and ante-dated. It is
accepted on behalf of the petitioners that the first petitioner was not the director
(engineering) of the Housing Board in September, 2006. In his affidavit-in-reply,
the petitioners have altogether denied having made an application for allotment
of a residential plot in New Town on September 27, 2006. 209. The petitioner in WP 27353(W) of 2013 claims to have applied for a
residential plot in New Town under the chairman's discretionary quota on August
19, 2005. The copy of the relevant document appended as annexure P-4 to the
petition suggests that it was received by the company on the same day. For the
sheer quality of the application, the particulars furnished in the application call
to be noticed to the last detail. The petitioner described himself as "Student of
 Electrical Engineering, IIIrd year, Future Institute of Engineering and
Management under WBUT, Kolkata. Training in Computer from NIIT,
Represented South Point H. School in interschool meet in cricket, represented
W.B.State as a member of the cricket team to play against Bangladesh and
various states of India." As per the category in which the petitioner applied, the
petitioner mentioned "Engineering student with IT bias. (75% marks in the last
test)." As for supporting documents, the application promised, "Will be provided
when required." The young cricketer's application was too good to resist and it
resulted in a letter of intimation being issued by the company on February 28,
2011 immediately on the chairman's approval of the allotment under his
discretionary quota on the same day. On May 26, 2011 the petitioner claims to
have written to the company that he received the letter of intimation by ordinary
post only on May 23, 2011. He requested for the time to make the deposit to be
extended by 60 days. He wrote another letter on July 23, 2011 seeking to
ascertain how he could pay for the allotment approved in his favour. The
company does not appear to have responded to either letter. No formal offer of
allotment was issued to this petitioner in furtherance of the approval of a 2.24
cottah plot under MIG-I category in his favour. The company informed him on
September 14, 2011 that the allotment of the plot in the petitioner's favour stood
cancelled as intimation thereof was issued to the petitioner a day before the
model code of conduct came into effect. The budding cricketer is aggrieved by the
cancellation of the allotment approved in his favour. He suggests that there was
nothing illegal in the approval of the allotment in his favour but the real reason
would be evident from a report of the The Times of India of January 1, 2011 that
two ministers of the State government held a meeting to discuss the issue of
allotment of plots in New Town with officials of the company and that the
government had "decided that all land deals that Hidco had implemented during
the Left rule, particularly during the last few months, will be probed into." The
report also referred to the dissolution of a body by the name of Bhangar-Rajarhat
Area Development Authority. The petitioner exhorts that there is no place for any
oral direction in administrative law and the company could not have acted on its
 imaginary perception of the wishes of the State government without any written
direction issued in accordance with law in such regard. The company's affidavit
in the matter refers to the committee that had been constituted by the erstwhile
chairman to examine the applications for residential plots under his
discretionary quota. The company's affidavit avers that "the said Committee met
for the last time on 24th May, 2007 at 3 p.m. From the minutes of the said
Committee as found in the records of WBHIDCO it appears that on that single
date i.e. 24th May, 2007, the Committee had completed the examination of all
applications for allotment and recommended 835 applications relating to
different categories." The company has also expressed surprise at the alleged
recommendation of the committee of May 24, 2007 being "suddenly" taken up
"after nearly four years, on the eve of election" by the chairman for allotments
being made under his discretionary quota. 210. The petitioners in WP 2569(W) of 2014 have not disclosed their application
in the petition. The company has appended a copy of the application for
allotment of a plot to set up a cooperative building in New Town. The application
is dated September 27, 2006 in hand and the members of the cooperative society
as disclosed in the application are different from the eight petitioners who have
filed the petition, save three of them. The letter of intimation was issued on
February 28, 2011 following the chairman's approval of the allotment on
February 22, 2011. The formal letter of offer was issued on May 12, 2011 for a
5.01 cottah MIG-C category plot on freehold basis at a total consideration of
about Rs. 13.78 lakh. The petitioners claim to have made full payment of the
consideration and even the documentation charges. The allotment was cancelled
by a letter of October 9, 2013 by citing the model code of conduct coming into
effect a day after the issuance of the letter of intimation. The petitioners rely on
the principle of promissory estoppel and say that upon the offer of allotment
being issued and the payment for the land received by the State, it had no
authority to cancel the same. The petitioners also remind the court that what is
relevant for the present consideration is whether the cancellation of the
 allotments are illegal and not whether the allotments made under the chairman's
discretionary quota were justified. 211. The company has carried the photocopy of the application in its file which
also bears a rubber-stamp with the same initials as in several other matters and
the date of June 24, 2010. The company suggests that it is inconceivable that all
the doubtful applications have been received by the same official. 212. No copy of any application has been disclosed by the petitioner in WP
929(W) of 2014 but it has been asserted that the petitioner had made a "prayer
for allotment of a plot of land" at paragraph 3 of the petition without any further
particulars thereof being furnished. The letter of intimation was issued by the
company to the petitioner on February 28, 2011 indicating that the chairman
had approved the allotment on February 26, 2011. The offer of allotment was
issued on May 2, 2011 for a 2.24 cottah plot in the MIG-I category at a total
consideration of Rs.6.72 lakh on freehold basis. The letter of cancellation of the
allotment was issued on identical lines as several other similar letters of October
9, 2013. This petitioner has made no attempt to even urge that he was eligible for
the allotment. 213. The petitioner in WP 5655(W) of 2014 claims to have applied as a land-
loser and says that she was entitled to a plot by virtue of her status and her
allotment could not have been cancelled by the general sweep with which the new
board of the company has approached several allotments of plots in New Town
under the chairman's quota. The petitioner purchased a plot measuring about 2
cottah 5 chittack in mouza Thakdari in Rajarhat at a consideration of
Rs.23,000/- by a deed of sale of May 22, 1992. The petitioner claimed in her
application of February 23, 2011 that such plot was acquired by the State for the
purpose of developing the township against a compensation of Rs.75,273/- paid
to her in August, 2003. Her application received the immediate attention of the
erstwhile chairman who approved the allotment on February 26, 2011 for the
letter of intimation to be issued to the petitioner by the company on February 28,
 2011. The offer of allotment was issued on May 3, 2011 for a 2.24 cottah MIG-I
plot on freehold basis at a consideration of Rs.6.72 lakh. The allotment was
cancelled by a letter of October 9, 2013 for the intimation being issued to the
petitioner a day before the model code came into effect. The petitioner says that
her protest of the cancellation by a letter received by the company on November
20, 2013 has been rejected without any reasons on December 3, 2013. It is
submitted on behalf of the petitioner at the hearing that though her application
was dated February 23, 2011, she had applied much earlier and it was the same
application which was submitted again on February 23, 2011. However, the
petition does not make out what has been submitted at the hearing on behalf of
the petitioner on such aspect. A casual reading of the first six paragraphs of the
petition would give the unmistakable impression that the petitioner had applied
to the chairman for an allotment under his discretionary quota only on February
23, 2011. The date of the application is of some significance since it is not the
petitioner's case that she applied at a time when applications could have been
received for allotments under the chairman's quota pursuant to the dates
therefor being fixed by any advertisement. The company has insinuated in its
affidavit that the allotment was made under the discretionary quota on
extraneous considerations as the application was not vetted by any screening
committee and the petitioner's status as a land-loser had to be assessed in the
backdrop of the petitioner having acquired land in Rajarhat only in 1992. 214. WP 25416(W) of 2012 pertains to an allotment of a plot to a proposed
cooperative society. The application has not been disclosed in the petition, but
the company has revealed the same in its affidavit. The chief promoter of the
proposed cooperative society applied as the persons indicated in the application
were "living away from kolkata ... (and were) facing much trouble to reside in
kolkata or near kolkata." The letter bears the hand-written date of September 25,
2006. The letter of intimation was issued by the company to the petitioners on
February 28, 2011 following the chairman's approval of the allotment on
February 22, 2011. The petitioners have been resourceful enough to disclose a
 copy of a document as annexure P-4 to petition which is signed by four members
of a committee that was apparently set up to examine the applications for
residential plots under the chairman's discretionary quota. The minutes as
disclosed are worth noticing in their entirety: The designations of the four members of the committee are printed below their
signatures as "G.M(A)", "OSD to Chairman", "M.D. & Principal Advisor to
Chairman", and "Chairman" with the "Chairman", presumably, being the
chairman of the committee without his more appropriate designation being
disclosed in the minutes. 215. The company has subsequently disclosed the same minutes with several
lists appended thereto. The first list pertains to applicants for individual plots
and the names of 521 applicants are recorded with the dates of applications and
 categories indicated. The next list is of the 198 applicants for MIG plots. The
third list contains the names of 53 applicants for HIG cooperative plots. The
fourth list contains the names of 25 applicants for MIG cooperative plots. The
fifth list has the names of 13 applicants for LIG cooperative plots. The sixth and
final list has the names of 25 applicants for bulk cooperative plots. 216. The letter of allotment was issued by the company to the chief promoter of
the proposed housing cooperative society on February 28, 2011 indicating the
chairman's approval of the allotment on February 22, 2011. The letter of offer
was issued on May 12, 2011 for a 5.98 cottah plot on freehold basis under the
HIG-C category at a total consideration of about Rs.19.73 lakh. The petitioners
claim that they discovered that their allotment may have been in jeopardy
following the response of State Bank of the India on November 26, 2011 to the
petitioners' query that the bank had been advised by the company in terms of a
letter dated October 31, 2011 "not to accept instalments/deposits, inter alia,
from you, in connection with the allotment of land." The allotment made in
favour of the petitioners has not been cancelled, presumably because this
petition was filed shortly upon receipt of the bank's communication and an order
was passed thereon on February 25, 2013 directing the respondents to not allot
or transfer or alienate the property in question in favour of any other person. The
petitioners have impleaded several other allottees and one of them, the
respondent No. 13, has filed an affidavit-in-opposition. At paragraph 26 of the
petition, the petitioners have alleged that the officer on special duty to the
erstwhile chairman of the company, who has been impleaded as the eighth
respondent, had also been allotted a plot of land on February 28, 2011. The
petitioners claim that since such person "is having access within the office of the
HIDCO authorities, his plot of land was not cancelled ... (and) ... formalities in
respect of the plot of land of Kalyan Sen has been completed and the possession
of the land has been handed over to him." The petitioners suggest that blatant
favouritism was exercised by the company in not cancelling the allotment in
favour of the officer attached to the chairman. The petitioners have also
 questioned the allotment made to the HIDCO Employees' Housing Cooperative
Society Limited and allege that since such persons have access to the powers
that be, the allotment was not cancelled. According to the petitioners, the deeds
of convenience in favour of Kalyan Sen and the said society were executed with
undue haste in May, 2011. The petitioners claim at paragraph 28 of the petition
that that allotments made unto several others under the chairman's
discretionary quota, including to police personnel and to two former judges of
this court, stood on the same footing as the allotment made in favour the
petitioners, but the other allotments have been preserved while the petitioners'
has arbitrarily been cancelled. The petitioners insist that if their allotment has to
go, all similarly situated allottees of residential plots under the chairman's
discretionary quota should suffer the same fate. 217. The company points out that this is another case of the application having
been apparently misplaced. The company refers to paragraph 10 of the petition
where the petitioners claim to have applied on August 18, 2005 though the copy
of the application in the company's records bears a hand-written date of
September 25, 2006. There is no doubt that the copy of the application that is in
the company's records is, other than the hand-written date, an identical copy of
the application said to be dated August 18, 2005 appearing at page 78 of the
petition. The signature is identical, which is unusual as signatures of the same
person, however similar, are rarely identical. The marks appearing in some parts
of the two documents are the same. The company says that only the printed date
of August 18, 2005 has been removed and a hand-written date of September 25,
2006 inserted in the copy of the same document and kept in the company's files
since the list appended to the minutes of the meeting of the committee allegedly
held on May 24, 2007 to scrutinise the applications for residential allotments
carried such date of the application. The company says that it is evident that
records have been fudged in course of the allotments being made under the
chairman's discretionary quota. 218. The petitioner in WP 5988(W) of 2014 has not disclosed a copy of the
application made for the allotment an individual plot to him but has averred at
paragraph 10 of the petition that such application was made "within
27.09.2006". The letter of allotment in his favour was issued on February 28,
2011 following the chairman's approval of the allotment under his discretionary
quota on February 22, 2011. The petitioner has disclosed the copy of a two-page
document relied on by several other petitioners, which evidences the approval
accorded to several applications by the chairman on February 22, 2011. The
petitioner was issued the offer of allotment on May 12, 2011 for a 2.24 cottah
MIG-I plot on freehold basis at a consideration of Rs.6.72 lakh. The petitioner
claims to have made the entire payment but suffered a notice of cancellation of
October 9, 2013 on the ground that the letter of intimation was issued to him a
day before the model code of conduct became effective. 219. The final matter, WP 22158(W) of 2011, was one of the earliest of the
petitions challenging the cancellation of the allotment of a plot in New Town. The
petitioners have relied on a copy of their application made on September 13,
2006. The letter of intimation was issued by the company to the chief promoter of
the cooperative society on February 28, 2011 upon the chairman's approval on
the same day. The offer of allotment was issued to the petitioners on May 12,
2011 for a 5.98 cottah plot in the HIG-C category on freehold basis at a
consideration of about Rs.19.73 lakh. The allotment was cancelled by a letter of
September 14, 2011 on the ground that the letter of intimation was issued a day
before the model code of conduct came into effect. An ad interim order was
declined when this petition was received on January 20, 2012, whereupon an
appeal was preferred and an order obtained restraining the respondents from
creating third party rights in respect of a property for a limited duration. These
petitioners have relied on the perceived anomalies indicated in the
supplementary affidavit filed in the lead petition pertaining to non-residential
allotments wherein it has been claimed that the allotments made in favour of at
 least 180 have not been cancelled and that 81 allottees of residential plots under
the special quota had obtained possession of their land between 2011 and 2014. 220. With the facts pertaining to the petitions in the saga that was the
discretionary allotment of plots in New Town, Rajarhat having been noticed in
some detail, the matter now reaches its business end for the assessment. But
before it can be ascertained whether the actions of the company questioned by
the petitioners herein call for any interference, it is necessary to summarise the
salient features, then to appreciate the issues that fall for consideration and the
tools therefor before proceeding to assess them. 221. All but one of the live petitions herein pertain to a matter other than the
cancellation or the threatened cancellation of the allotment of plots in New Town;
and even in that solitary matter, the company says that it proposes to cancel the
allotment altogether rather than have the allotment converted from freehold to
leasehold. In only one of the live petitions, the possession was made over to the
allottee; but the allottee had not used the land within reasonable time of
obtaining possession thereof and the company has issued notice to cancel the
deed of conveyance and repossess the land. The concerned allottee has not
pursued the petition, even though it is among the bunch taken up for
consideration: the petitioners in WP 30078(W) of 2013 have not been represented
on any of the nearly 30-odd days that these petitions have been heard at the final
stage. Of the two major groups of petitioners pertaining to non-residential
allottees and residential allottees, six of the allotments in the non-residential
class have been made by the board of directors of the company and not under
the chairman's discretionary quota. Such six matters may have to be seen
slightly differently. 222. The petitioners claim, almost in unison, that the only issue that falls for
consideration is whether the acts of the company complained of are rational or
reasonable. They insist that whatever else may be seen in these matters, what
 cannot be questioned is the allotment of the plots made to the petitioners. They
argue, in general, that once it is seen that the company had due authority to allot
plots in New Town and it allotted the plots under such authority, the allotments
cannot be challenged by revisiting the circumstances in which the allotments
may have been made. To begin with, the petitioners say that it is not as if the
allotments made in their favour were illegal; that the cloud sought to be raised is
on account of perceived illegality - and perception depends on the perspective,
which may be tinged or skewed or of a different hue. They suggest that the arrow
having been shot, it can no longer be brought back to the quiver. In addition,
they cite the legal ground of estoppel and maintain that the acts of the company
complained of are a direct result of the change in the government and, as such,
vindictive. The petitioners submit that, in any event, each cancellation or
threatened cancellation of the allotments has to be seen on the anvil of the
reasons proffered therefor and not decided by a general sweep in the light of the
aura of suspicion created as to the allotments. They also question the motives
and the propriety of the company's action in assailing allotments made under the
previous regime by not cancelling all the allotments but picking out a few for
such harsh treatment. The petitioners submit that there is no suggestion, far less
any evidence, that any of these petitioners obtained the allotment by offering
illegal gratification. 223. There is both a superficial and a more wholesome answer to the primary
issue that the petitioners raise, that it is the cancellation or threatened
cancellation which has been called into question and not the allotments made in
their favour. Article 226 of the Constitution confers the power on every High
Court to issue certain writs to any person or authority, subject to territorial
considerations. Though the history of the writ jurisdiction in India dates back to
the Royal Charter of 1774, the origin of writs is in medieval England. It may not
be necessary in the context to trace the history from the Provisions of Oxford of
1258 or the Provisions of Westminster of 1259 since the authority to issue writs
in this country has to be guided by constitutional principles and the all
 pervading sense of reasonableness which is the very ethos of the suprema lex. It
is not as if such consideration is relevant only for the superior courts exercising
the prerogative of issuing writs, but it would apply to all courts in the pursuit of
the juridical holy trinity of justice, equity and good conscience. 224. If the petitioners' contention is upheld and a myopic assessment of the acts
of the company complained of is conducted without reference to the possible
consequence of an order annulling the acts complained of, it would be an
adjudication in derogation of the constitutional principles and not in public
interest. It may be useful to refer to the opinion in Platinum Entertainment (supra)
where the Supreme Court, in effect, held that the High Court had missed the
woods for the trees in confining itself to the impugned cancellation of the
allotment without peering into the circumstances in which the grant had been
made in favour of the writ petitioners. 225. The principle that a decision affecting a citizen has to be tested only on the
basis of the reasons indicated in the decision in support thereof as recognised in Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) has been substantially watered down in recent years
and held not to be applicable where larger public interest is involved. Indeed, K.
Shyam Kumar (supra) advocates that "the decision-maker can always rely upon
subsequent materials to support the decision already taken when larger public
interest is involved." There can be no larger public interest than when the
government allots the most scarce of commodities: land. The company's assertion
that the allotments made by the erstwhile management of the company or the
erstwhile chairman under his discretionary quota are all in suspicious
circumstances, cannot be brushed aside as irrelevant without assessing the
quality of such assertion. 226. Contemporary jurisprudence suggests that the classical Wednesbury test
of reasonableness has yielded to the doctrine of proportionality. But the
judgment in K. Shyam Kumar (supra) observes that though the "current trend
 seems to favour proportionality test but Wednesbury has not met with its judicial
burial and a State burial, with full honours is surely not to happen in the near
future." At least one later Supreme Court judgment [(2011) 15 SCC 616
( Maharashtra Land Development Corporation v. State of Maharashtra ]] has
observed that the "Wednesbury principle of reasonableness has given way to the
doctrine of proportionality." The distinction made in that case between the two
sets of tests is that under the "Wednesbury principle administrative action can be
subject to judicial review, on the ground of illegality, irrationality or procedural
impropriety" whereas the "principle of proportionality envisages that a public
authority ought to maintain a sense of proportion between particular goals and
the means implied to achieve those goals, so that administrative action impinges
on the individual rights to the minimum extent to preserve public interest."
Without resorting to tautology, the two principal decisions that fall for
consideration in the present matters are to be tested to ascertain whether they
were arbitrary or in abuse of the discretion available. The two decisions are: first,
the cancellation or threatened cancellation of the allotments; and, secondly, the
manner of allotment of the plots to the petitioners in these matters. The propriety
of the later decision has necessarily to be considered ahead of the other; for, if it
is found that there was no ground to cancel or want to cancel the subject
allotments, the manner of allotment would not be required to be gone into. 227. There was a change of the political dispensation in government in or about
May, 2011. As a consequence, the government's nominees on the board of
directors of the company were replaced by or about August, 2011 and the new
board took stock of the business and affairs of the company subsequent thereto.
At the first meeting of the newly constituted board of directors of the company, it
decided to look into the status of the allotment of plots in New Town. In course of
such exercise, the board or the company in its new avatar perceived that the
allotments made under the previous dispensation may have been improper. As
would appear from the initial notices issued in many of the cases herein in
September and October, 2011, the company called upon the allottees to withdraw
 their applications for allotments which would have resulted in the automatic
annulment of the allotments or the approval thereof without shedding any blood.
Over the next year or two that the company issued letters of cancellation to
several of the allottees of plots in New Town, whether the allotments had been
made by the board or under the chairman's discretionary quota, it does not
appear that the company had a full grasp over the circumstances in which the
allotment of plots, other than by way of lottery, had been made under the
previous regime. This was reflected in the notices of cancellation issued to several
of the petitioners in the present proceedings. The letters of cancellation
pertaining to allotment of non-residential plots had a bit of this and bit of that;
but it is obvious that the company had not been able to discover or comprehend
the level or extent of arbitrariness with which allotment of plots in New Town had
been made under the former management of the company and, particularly,
under the chairman's discretionary quota. But now that everything has been laid
bare and the suspicion that the company harboured as to the manner of
allotment while cancelling or threatening to cancel the allotments, appears to
have been founded on good grounds, the acts of the company now complained of
have to be assessed in the backdrop of the manner in which the allotments were
made in the first place. 228. The new management of the company that was installed in the middle of
2011 perceived that the allotments made immediately before the 2011 assembly
elections were announced required to be looked into. There was substantial basis
for such decision, as the last dates for receiving applications for residential and
non-residential allotments were in 2006 and 2008, respectively; but the number
of allotments made under the chairman's discretionary quota in the four calendar
years prior to 2011 showed a remarkable jump in the first two months of 2011.
Till the year 2007 no allotment of any non-residential plot in New Town was
made since it appears that non-residential allotments were opened up only in
2008. The last date for receiving applications for the allotment of non-residential
plots under the chairman's quota was March 31, 2008. It would be expected that
 within reasonable time of such last date for receiving applications, the
applications would be considered and allotments made. The petitioners have
relied on the minutes of the meeting of a committee that was set up to scrutinise
the applications received for the allotment of non-residential plots. Such
committee, according to the petitioners and the records available with the
company, is said to have met on April 28, 2008 to consider the applications and,
in one sweep and without assigning any other reasons, the committee found all
the applications to be in order and worthy of allotment save the few which either
did not indicate the size of the plot required or the purpose for the allotment. If
the relevant committee considered the applications for non-residential plots -
whatever may have been the quality of such consideration - and it submitted a
report by way of the minutes of the meeting on or about April 28, 2008, the
chairman should have acted thereupon within reasonable time of the receipt
thereof. But the undisputed figures of allotment show that the chairman allotted
one non-residential plot in 2008 and another four in 2009. The tempo picked
momentum with 43 allotments of non-residential plots in 2010, most of them
appearing to be in the last two or three months of the year. Compare this to the
63 allotments of non-residential plots made by the chairman under his
discretionary quota in the first two months of 2011 with 15 of them being
approved for allotment on February 28, 2011. The board approved the allotment
of 27 other non-residential plots at its meeting of February 28, 2011. 229. The last date for receiving applications for the allotment of residential plots
in New Town was September 27, 2006. Again, it would have been expected that
the allotments from the chairman's discretionary quota under such head would
be made within reasonable time of the last date for the receipt of applicants.
Several of the petitioners pertaining to the residential allotments have referred to
a committee that was set up to scrutinise the applications received for the
allotment of residential plots in New Town. Such committee, according to several
of the petitioners and the records available with the company, is said to have met
on May 24, 2007 to consider the applications and, without assigning any
 reasons, the committee found all 835 applications to be in order and worthy of
allotment. When the relevant committee considered the applications for
residential plots - whatever may have been the quality of such consideration -
and it submitted a report by way of the minutes of the meeting on or about May
24, 2007, the chairman should have acted thereupon within reasonable time of
the receipt thereof. In the four calendar years preceding 2011, a total of 25
residential allotments were approved by the chairman under his discretionary
quota: seven in 2007; six in 2008; two in 2009; and, ten in 2010. In the first two
months of 2011 the chairman approved the allotment of 219 residential plots in
New Town, 60 of them on February 28, 2011. In the light of the alarming flurry of
activities towards the end of 2010 and the crescendo in the first two months of
2011, the company was justified in revisiting the allotments or, at least,
reviewing the circumstances in which the allotments were made. The figures
suggested a story and it was perfectly in order for the company to try to discover
it. 230. In most cases where the allotments have been cancelled or threatened to
be cancelled, the only reason cited or one of the several reasons given by the new
management of the company is that the intimation of the approval of the
allotment was made just prior to the assembly elections in the State being
announced. The petitioners have attempted to discredit the reason by referring to
several judgments and even the opinion of the Election Commission that a
process which had been started long prior to any election being announced
would remain unaffected by the model code of conduct. What the petitioners have
attempted to gloss over is the fact that the trend of allotment that started
towards the end of 2010 ought to have continued in its upward graph even after
February 28, 2011 or tapered off in a reasonable manner without the abruptness
with which it seems to have been arrested on February 28, 2011.
Notwithstanding what the company may have said in its letters of cancellation,
the issue is not as to whether the allotments made immediately prior to the
election dates being announced may be regarded as dubious or contrived to beat
 the deadline; the more appropriate assessment would be whether the company at
the relevant time perceived that no further approval of allotments could be made
upon the election dates being declared. It is the inescapable inference that may
be drawn from the conduct of the company in the days leading up to February
28, 2011, that its chairman perceived that further allotment of plots could not be
approved or the approval intimated to the allottees after the election dates were
declared. There is no dispute that except for the issuance of a solitary letter of
intimation on March 1, 2011, the letters of intimation in all other subject cases,
whether under the chairman's discretionary quota or by the board, were issued
on or a few days prior to February 28, 2011. 231. The company's supplementary affidavit in WP 5158(W) of 2013 has
indicated the rationale of cancelling some of the allotments made under the
chairman's discretionary quota while not proceeding against the others. For non-
residential allotments, cancellation has been effected in only those cases where
the offers of allotment (those letters which identified and demarcated the plots
and indicated the schedule for payment therefor) were issued after February 28,
2011; and in case of residential plots, where the letters of intimation were issued
on February 28, 2011. Paragraph 17 of such supplementary affidavit has
specified that other than the four allottees identified therein by name, the
allotments of all other non-residential plots where firm offers of allotment were
issued after February 28, 2011 have been cancelled. Of the four exceptions, the
deeds of conveyance relating to two of them were executed by the beginning of
November, 2011, prior to any letter of cancellation being issued to them. In the
two other cases, the allotments were not cancelled because the allettees had
already applied to this court and the matters were sub-judice. Paragraph 15 of
the supplementary affidavit indicates that all residential allotments under the
chairman's discretionary quota where letters of intimation were issued on
February 28, 2012 have been cancelled except the seven allottees mentioned
therein. In the cases of Abhijit Saha and Dipak Kumar Bhattacharya, the
possession of the relevant plot was made over in April and May, 2011,
 respectively. In the other five cases, the allottees had filed petitions and
cancellation of the allotments had not been effected in deference to the matters
being in court. Some of the petitioners have referred to a further exception being
carved out by the company for one Rajiv Kumar in that the cancellation of his
allotment was under reconsideration. The company has made a categorical
statement in court which has been recorded in an order of May 5, 2015 that the
cancellation of the allotment in favour of Rajiv Kumar is final and the matter will
not be reconsidered. Thus, it would be evident that a cut-off date has been
chosen by the company in either case and the decision to cancel the allotments
made on the basis of such cut-off date is without exception, save what was
beyond the control of the company. The company has also submitted that it has
instituted civil suits against Balaji Enterprise, the respondent No.16 in the lead
petition, and against Alo Eye Care Private Ltd and that it will pursue such
actions diligently. In respect of the residential allotments made in favour of
Abhijit Saha and Dipak Kumar Bhattacharya, it appears that they were favoured
citizens under the previous management of the company since they obtained
possession of their plots before the change of guard at Writers' Building or the
effect of such change trickled down to the HIDCO headquarters. The petitioners
have not been able to cite the instance of any other allottee who may have been
covered by the decision of the company for cancellation of allotment, but has not
been proceeded against. Contrary to what the petitioners suggest, the company
has not resorted to picking and choosing a few for harsh treatment on an
imaginary classification. 232. Despite the unrelenting rumblings of the rejected allottees as to the basis
and manner of classification, there appears to have been both reason and
rationale in the company choosing where the axe would fall. Once it is
appreciated that the alarming trend of allotments towards the end of the tenure
of the previous regime justified a revisit of the circumstances in which allotment
of plots in New Town were made, any decision to cancel the allotments on the
grounds of impropriety would have required a cut-off date or a classification
 unless all the allottees were similarly circumstanced. The company has said that
it was slightly stricter in dealing with improper allotments of non-residential plots
than in residential plots since non-residential plots lend themselves to be
exploited more for commercial gains. There is sound logic in making a distinction
between non-residential and residential allotments and it may have been
irrational if it was not so done. As to the cut-off date of February 28, 2011 in
either case, it would be evident that the company chose the last possible date
without being vindictive and cancelling all the allotments under the discretionary
quota by disregarding any distinction between those who may have already taken
steps upon obtaining title or possession or both of their allotted lands and those
who had not got title or possession. 233. The ancillary question which arises is that whether another cut-off date
could have been chosen or the distinction between who to proceed against and
who not to proceed against could have been otherwise than as decided by the
company. When the propriety of a cut-off date or the manner of classification is
called into question it may, more often than not, appear that another date or
another set of criteria may have been equally or more efficaciously chosen. It is
here that the court should realise the bounds of its authority and eschew
usurping the administrative decision-making function unless it is demonstrated
that the impugned cut-off date or the classification was not based on intelligible
differentia or that the same had no nexus with the object of the exercise. It would
not do for a court to discredit the impugned cut-off date or classification merely
because another, probably better, was possible: for that would be taking upon
the burden of administration; the test in such a case would be whether that
which has been chosen is mala fide or demonstrably erroneous on the twin
benchmarks of intelligible differentia and nexus with the object of the decision. 234. The facts as they have unfolded may have justified the cancellation of all or
most of the allotments in New Town made under the chairman's discretionary
quota, but that may have been too sweeping. In such a scenario an allottee who
 had built upon an allotted land would have been treated on the same footing as
an allottee who may not have obtained possession of the land or title thereto; and
the rationale could have been seriously doubted. Except for a solitary case where
the company has sought to repossess the plot for non-use, the company's
decision to cancel the allotments is restricted to such allottees who have neither
obtained title nor possession of the plots allotted and, in some cases, who have
not even been made firm offers of allotment by identification of any plot. The facts
undeniably demonstrate that the process of allotment of plots in New Town, both
by the board and under the chairman's discretionary quota, was unfair,
irrational and otherwise improper. Once such position is established, it cannot be
said that merely because the company had informed some of the applicants that
their allotments had been approved or even the formal offers of allotment were
issued, the process could not be revisited or reviewed. The company had due
authority to cancel any allotment if it reasonably perceived the process to have
been improper. Merely because the company has chosen a cut-off date which
allows some of the other unworthy allottees to retain their allotments, it cannot
be said that no action could have been taken by the company despite discovering
the colossal irregularity in the process. Article 14 of the Constitution does not
operate in a negative sense. Just because another citizen has got away with a
wrong does not imply that the next wrong-doer has also to be let off. 235. Some of the petitioners have argued that in the company perceiving all the
allotments made under the chairman's discretionary quota to be improper but
proceeding against only a few, it has sought to put its imprimatur of propriety on
the other perceived improper allotments. Such argument does not appeal. Just
as the State or an instrumentality of the State must be guarded and informed in
conferring a benefit to a person; once the benefit has been conferred, the State or
instrumentality is obliged to exercise greater caution and restraint in recalling or
undoing the benefit conferred. The doctrine of proportionality or even the test of
reasonableness would make a distinction between two unworthy recipients of
State largesse depending on the extent of the activities undertaken by the two
 recipients in pursuance of the grant. Say, for instance, two persons were
improperly allotted and given possession of parcels of land by the State on
freehold basis and one of them proceeded to transfer the same; it may not then
be possible for the State to divest the transferee of his property if he had acquired
it in good faith upon satisfying himself of the title of his vendor. But the fact that
the State cannot undo the improper grant to the one may not stand in the way of
the State recalling the allotment improperly made to the other allottee. 236. While it is acknowledged that these petitions have not come by way of any
public interest litigation, yet it cannot be forgotten that the exercise of authority
under Article 226 of the Constitution is primarily in public interest. As several
authoritative pronouncements, including the judgment reported at (2013) 5 SCC
427 (Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation v.
Subhash Sindhi Cooperative Housing Society), instruct, the primary purpose in
this jurisdiction is to protect and establish rights and to impose a corresponding
imperative duty existing in law. The issuance of high prerogative writs by the
superior courts in this country is designed to promote justice and its grant or
refusal is at the discretion of the court. Such discretion is exercised by taking
into consideration a wide variety of circumstances, including the facts of the
case, the exigency that warrants the exercise of the discretion, the consequences
of the grant or the refusal of the writ and the nature and extent of the injury that
is likely to ensue by such grant or its refusal. The discretion has to be exercised
on the considerations of public policy, public interest and public good. The
authority to issue a writ is equitable in nature and governed by the principles of
equity. The issuance of a writ may be refused on grounds that lead to injustice: Several other applicants for non-residential allotments appear to have referred to
facts in future, if the dates appearing on their applications are to be given any
credence. Most curiously, many of the petitions do not carry copies of the
applications for allotment or rely on printed applications for allotment which are
undated or where the date is written in hand. As to the rejected allottees of
residential plots, several of the applications refer to "New Town Police Station" or
to "Jyoti Basu Nagar" years before such police station was set up or New Town
was sought to be renamed. Many of the residential applications that fall for
consideration are also either undated or carry hand-written dates or are in a
similar form. It is unnatural that so many anomalies appear in the applications
for allotment of plots. The only logical inference is that the process was
undertaken on the basis of extraneous considerations and the related documents
have been fabricated or manufactured to try and window-dress the process as
authentic. 240. Three of the petitioners pertaining to non-residential plots admittedly
applied well beyond time. At least three of the petitions pertaining to residential
allotments also reveal that the applications for allotment were made long after
the time specified in the relevant advertisement had expired. It is possible that in
an odd case, a conscious extension of time is granted on relevant considerations
or the extension does not prejudice any other applicant. However, it would be
evident from the list of 849 applicants for non-residential plots and the list of 835
applicants for residential plots that a majority of the applications were not taken
up for consideration by the chairman. Apart from the fact that there is nothing
which indicates why some applications were taken up for consideration and
others not, the chairman owed a duty to all the applicants to consider the
applications on a level-playing field. If all the applicants had been allotted plots
and some late applicants also accommodated, there would be no cause for
complaint; but when several of the applicants are shown in the list to have
applied within time but other applications which, according to the relevant
applicants, were filed much later than the last dates therefor and the dates
ascribed to such applications in the list, the entire process is vitiated. In fact, the
facts as noticed in the discussion pertaining to the individual mattes would
reveal that several of the applications could not have been before the committees
set up to scrutinise the same. 241. The sanctity of a process is destroyed if even a solitary instance is shown
that would cast a doubt on the date on which the process is shown to have been
undertaken. There are instances galore which lead to the inevitable conclusion
that the minutes of the two committees which met to approve the residential and
non-residential applications on May 24, 2007 and April 28, 2008, respectively,
were fabricated and brought into existence as a part of a charade to cloak a
dubious process with contrived authenticity. The facts lead to the inescapable
inference that the entire process of approving or granting allotment of plots under
the chairman's discretionary quota was a sham and that the exercise of
 discretion was arbitrary, at variance with the guidelines set therefor and
otherwise opposed to public interest and contrary to public policy. 242. In an article entitled Reasonableness in Administrative Discretion: A Formal
Model by P. L. M. Lucatuorto [(2010) J. Juris 633], the author propounds that the
term "discretion" has at least five uses in administrative law: the authority to
make individualising decisions in the application of general rules or
"individualising discretion"; the freedom in filling gaps in delegated authority in
order to execute assigned administrative functions or "executing discretion"; the
power to take action to further societal goals or "policy-making discretion"; if no
review is permitted the agency exercises "unbridled discretion" and, if the
decision cannot by it very nature be reviewed, the agency exercises "numinous
discretion". According to the proposition canvassed in the article, different
judicial considerations flow from such distinction and only the first three of the
types of discretion are subject to review by courts on either the test of
arbitrariness or the test of abuse of discretion. However, the Supreme Court of
Canada in a judgment reported at (1959) SCR 121 (Roncarelli v. Duplessis) held,
by a majority opinion with one in disagreement, that in public regulation "there is
no such thing as absolute and untrammeled 'discretion', that is that action can
be taken on any ground or for any reason that can be suggested to the mind of
the administrator; no legislative Act can, without express language, be taken to
contemplate an unlimited arbitrary power exercisable for any purpose, however
capricious or irrelevant, regardless of the nature of the statute." The context in
which such observation was made may be seen in brief. Members of the cult of
Jehovah's Witnesses went from door to door in Montreal in the 1940s seeking
converts. The State wanted them off the streets and the police arrested several for
selling magazines without licence. The cult challenged the peddling bye-laws. The
arrested members would have remained in jail as the challenge to the bye-laws
remained pending in the courts, but for a restaurateur with deep pockets who
bailed the members out on each occasion. The Prime Minister of the province
directed the liquor commission to cancel the liquor licence of the benefactor. In
 the action that followed, the State cited the liquor control legislation that
permitted the commission to "cancel any permit at its discretion"; but the
majority view adhered to the principle that even if no limits on a discretionary
power are stated in the legislation that confers it, the law subjects the power to
limits. 243. In the chapter entitled "Discretion and deference" in Administrative Law by
Timothy Endicott (OUP; 2ed), the author refers to three principal reasons for
allocating power to an administrative body: expertise; political responsibility;
and, effective processes. The same grounds are indicated as reasons for a court
to defer to the authority of an administrative body and its exercise of discretion;
with an additional reason: the fact that the law has allocated the power to an
administrative body. The chapter is prefaced with the following wise words: 244. Celebrated judgments of the Supreme Court, from Ramana Dayaram
Shetty (supra) through Capt. Satish Sharma (supra) and to Platinum
Entertainment (supra), instruct that it must be taken to be the law that in the
matter of grant of largesse, the State must act in a fair and just manner and any
arbitrary distribution of wealth would violate the law of the land. If a minister of
the Union was regarded to be "in a position of a trustee in respect of the public
property under his charge and discretion", a minister in a State government has
to be seen as charged with the same obligation and responsibility. If the role of
the concerned minister in Capt. Satish Sharma prompted the Supreme Court to
refer to "a tort which has been called misfeasance in public office and which
includes malicious abuse of power, deliberate mal-administration, and perhaps
also other unlawful acts causing injury", the manner in which allotment of plots
 were made in New Town under the previous dispensation, particularly under the
chairman's discretionary quota, invites the same reference. 245. In an ideal situation, equality of opportunity would be if everyone is
impartially situated as equals. In the real world, everyone is not similarly placed.
For social justice or distributive justice to be brought about by reconciling liberty
and equality in a principled manner, there has to be an element of discretion in
distributing State largesse. Since the political executive has an accountability to
the legislature and consequently, to the people, the political executive does have
the mandate to exercise discretion in how best to distribute land, licence, permits
and the like. In judicial review of any impugned distribution of State largesse, the
court may not say that it could have been done better or that a different set of
parameters ought to have been applied therefor. Whether on Wednesbury
reasonableness or on the basis of the doctrine of proportionality, the court will
assess whether the process was fair or in furtherance of the object of the
exercise. It is found in this case that only some of the applicants under the
chairman's discretionary quota were selected for approval without even a rational
basis for picking out some and leaving out the others. Even the allotments made
by the board of the company on February 28, 2011 were not on any rational
basis but on the purported recommendation of a committee that is shown to have
met long after the board meeting on the same day had commenced and whose
purported recommendations were approved by the board apparently on the same
day. As to the board allotments, it is true that all the applications that were made
to the board may have been approved, but government land cannot be
distributed without relevant considerations being taken into account. The
paramount consideration may not necessarily have been the best price possible,
for government cannot be seen to be driven by profit motive even though such
profits may be channelled to programmes for the less privileged citizens. But if
the board was to allot plots on the basis of applications and not by invitation, it
should have advertised therefor and not have exposed itself to an inference that it
may have engineered the applications to allot plots to favourites. 246. It is understandable that when a particular township is developed, the
presence of the amenities thereat has to be ensured to attract people to come
there; but that has to be done in a thought-out, planned manner and not on the
basis of any accidental or engineered application for setting up facilities or
amenities that may make the township attractive. If the government felt that
office or commercial hubs or motor garages or markets were also necessary for
residents to be attracted to the township, it could have invited applications for
commercial use in several categories and chosen a reasonable process, whether
by auction or even invitation, to set up such facilities. In any event, publication of
advertisements in a self-professed mouthpiece of a political party as Ganashakti
and a little-known and much less read English newspaper as The Echo of India
cannot be regarded as a bonafide method of giving wide publicity for applications
for allotment of commercial plots in New Town; and it appears to have been more
of a token compliance with the requirement in judicial pronouncements in such
regard. The manner in which the allotment of plots in New Town has been made,
other than by way of lottery, seems to be arbitrary from the beginning to the end. 247. Take, for instance, the day that was February 28, 2011 at the offices of
HIDCO. At 12 noon the 59th meeting of the board of directors of the company
commenced in the conference room at its then registered office in the Salt Lake
Stadium Complex. It was attended by the minister-chairman, the managing
director, the joint managing director and 11 other directors. Eight other officials
were present at the meeting by invitation. The company secretary was also in
attendance. The minutes show 38 items of business transacted thereat. The
minutes were prepared on the same day or by the next day if the chairman's
signature with the date of March 1, 2011 is to be believed. On February 28, 2011
a committee constituted at the board meeting of the same day met at 6 pm under
the chairmanship of one of the directors of the company. Of the two other
members of such committee, one was the managing director of the company. The
company secretary of the company was also in attendance at the meeting of the
 committee. The committee is supposed to have "scrutinized/analysed" eight
applications for setting up medical facilities in New Town and approved all of
them. Since the minutes of the 59th board meeting do not record that any of the
directors or the company secretary left such board meeting to attend any other
meeting, it is safe to assume that the board meeting had concluded prior to the
board-appointed committee meeting at 6 pm on the same day. Yet, the
recommendation of the committee appears to have been approved in the minutes
of the board meeting held earlier on the same day. Apart from the board meeting
and the committee meeting held on such day, 42 letters of intimation of non-
residential plots (27 board allottees and 15 allottees under the chairman's
discretionary quota) were issued to the relevant applicants by the company on
February 28, 2011. A further 60 letters of intimation were issued to the relevant
applicants for residential plots on the same day. In addition, sometime earlier
during such busy day the chairman considered 59 applications for allotment of
residential plots and approved them. The chairman's signature and the date of
February 28, 2011 appear on the two sets of documents in such regard. After the
chairman approved the 59 applications, a more formal note was prepared by his
officer on special duty and forwarded to the managing director of the company on
the same day. The relevant four-page document bears the signature of the officer
on special duty and the date of February 28, 2011. The chairman also had time
to approve at least three allotments in the non-residential category under his
discretionary quota. If the time taken for the considerable deliberations that the
board-appointed committee had to undertake to assess the applications for
setting up medical facilities in New Town is taken into account, it was very late in
the day and well beyond usual working hours when the board of directors of the
company must have considered the recommendations of the committee before it
approved the same. Without going into the nicety of how letters of allotment
bearing the date of February 28, 2011 could have been issued to the applicants
who wished to set up medical facilities in New Town when the board minutes
approving the allotments in their favour were signed only on March 1, 2011, it
would have been very late in the evening when the last of the letters of intimation
 pertaining to such allotments could be prepared. It appears to have been a day
well spent at HIDCO, except that there does not appear to have been any
comparable level of activity on any previous or later occasion. 248. In the supplementary affidavit filed by the company in WP 5158(W) of 2013
there is an initial list containing the names of 111 allotess of non-residential
plots in New Town under the chairman's discretionary quota. The approval of
such allotments and the issuance of the firm offers of allotment in the first 11
cases appear to have been completed by November, 2010. In respect of the first
ten allottees the deeds of conveyance had already been executed and possession
of the relevant plots handed over to the allottees. The 11th name in such list is
that of the petitioner company in WP 22170(W) of 2012 where the new
management of the company proposed merely to alter the freehold allotment to
leasehold basis, which has been challenged by the allottee. It has now been
discovered that the petitioner company in such matter had not been incorporated
on the date it is shown to have applied for the allotment and HIDCO's
submission has been recorded above that it is now proposed to altogether cancel
this allotment. All allotments made in favour of the allottees whose names appear
against serial number 12 onwards have been or are intended to be cancelled
except for Balaji Enterprise and Alo Eye Care Private Ltd in the circumstances
noticed above. All the allottees whose names appear in the list from serial
number 12 onwards were issued the firm offers of allotment after February 28,
2011. The distinction made by the company between the two groups of allottees
of non-residential plots on the basis of title and possession passing to some and
not to others is in order and does not call for any criticism or interference,
particularly since the company has indicated its stand in respect of the allottee
against serial no. 11 and against Balaji Enterprise and Alo Eye Care Private Ltd.
It may have been open to the new management of the company to even proceed
against the other allottees of non-residential plots in New Town who had already
obtained title or possession; but the fact that the company has not chosen such
option, is not enough to undo the reasonable classification that it made in this
 category. However, it is left to the company and its discretion if it wishes to
proceed against all the other allottees of non-residential plots under the
chairman's discretionary quota since the entire procedure is found to be faulty,
arbitrary and opposed to public policy. 249. For a long time it remained a mystery as to why two lists of residential
allottees under the discretionary quota had been appended to the company's
supplementary affidavit in WP 5158(W) of 2013. Queries to the respondent
authorities in course of the final hearing did not elicit any response beyond the
assertion that both lists appended to such supplementary affidavit pertained to
residential allotments under the chairman's discretionary quota. It is only on the
final day of the hearing that the mystery has been unravelled following a vain
attempt on the part of some of the rejected residential allottees to discredit the
list pertaining to applications for residential allotments appended to the minutes
of the meeting of the relevant committee held on May 24, 2007. It was sought to
be urged on behalf of some of the rejected allottees of residential plots that the
present management of the company had manufactured the document that
contained the particulars of the 835 applications for allotment of various
categories of residential plots in New Town. In course of such endeavour, it was
submitted on behalf of some of the petitioners pertaining to the residential
allotments that the relevant list could not have been taken up for consideration
by the relevant committee on May 24, 2007 since a number of the applicants
listed therein had already been allotted plots by then. What emerged from the
exercise conducted on behalf of the relevant petitioners was that the names of
the early allottees of residential plots (prior to May 24, 2007) were only from the
list euphemistically referred to in the supplementary affidavit as "special quota".
The names in such list indicate several "special" persons, with many of such
allotments apparently approved in 2005 and 2006. Thus, it is evident that even
before the facile exercise of referring the residential applications to a scrutiny
committee, a host of prominent citizens or persons in important public positions
had already been conferred the grant. There is no doubt that the guidelines
 pertaining to allotment of residential plots under the chairman's discretionary
quota refer to social workers, political workers and eminent persons in various
professions being eligible to obtain plots in New Town thereunder; but when
certain people in powerful positions and certain eminent personalities are chosen
ahead of others of their ilk, motives may be attributed to both the person making
the allotment and the allottees unless there is a transparent process with
complete disclosure at the relevant point of time. The guidelines do not indicate
how any distinction could be made between eminent persons in different fields or
persons enjoying like offices. In this case, there does not appear to have been any
discernible basis for considering some eminent persons more special than others
and allotting plots to them under the "special quota". It is imperative that the
powerful or the otherwise eminent who have been allotted residential plots in
New Town under the chairman's discretionary quota be also made aware that
some of them were regarded more special than the others. In a constitutional
democracy governed by the rule of law such allotments call for a probe that may
be beyond the scope of the present proceedings. 250. The second and third lists of allottees appended to the said supplementary
affidavit disclose names of several persons from judges to politicians, IAS and IPS
officers to other former or continuing public servants and sportspersons to other
prominent personalities. The arbitrariness with which the allotments under the
chairman's discretionary quota was made, unfortunately, betrays the
conspiratorial appropriation of State wealth by the modern day uber caste - of
those in power. In the absence of any entitlement to State largesse attached to
positions in public office, the distribution of government land to public servants
or persons exercising public authority has always to be frowned upon. The least
that company ought to do, if it does not proceed against the other allottees of
individual plots under any discretionary quota, is to prominently publish on its
website and make a public disclosure in at least two leading newspapers of the
names of all the allottees of residential plots under any discretionary quota
together with the designation of the allottees who may be continuing in office and
 the last-held posts of the allottees who have demitted office. But the distinction
made between those allottees whose letters of allotment of residential plots were
issued on February 28, 2011 and those whose letters were issued prior thereto
cannot be said to be unjustified or without basis since no further letters of
intimation appear to have been issued to any applicant for a residential plot after
February 28, 2011. This will, however, not prevent the company from taking any
reasonable action against the allottees of residential plots under any
discretionary quota who were issued the letters of intimation prior to February
28, 2011. 251. The manner in which discretion was exercised by the company or its
erstwhile chairman in approving or allotting plots in New Town does not leave
room for the justification of any of the allotments that have fallen for
consideration in the present proceedings. Indeed, the functioning of the company
during the relevant point of time appears to have been on the writ of its minister-
chairman. It is difficult to imagine that the other officials of the company,
including the other directors, could have acted independently or carried a view
that may not have been in tune with the chairman's. In such context, two lines of
argument canvassed on behalf of several of these petitioners do not appeal. There
is no legal mandate that a decision approved by the chairman of a government
company cannot be recalled or undone by a subsequent decision of a lesser
officer of the company. In either case, the decision is that of the company as a
chairman of a company is usually the chairman of the board of directors of the
company and, ordinarily, no chairman has such authority that the majority
directors of the company cannot override. Further, the actions taken or proposed
to be taken against these petitioners have been endorsed and deemed to have
been ratified by the company in it filing affidavits in support of such actions. A
further contention, needlessly raised by some of the petitioners, that the decision
to cancel the allotments in their favour is in excess of the relevant resolution
passed at the 70th meeting of the board of directors of the company held on
December 1, 2012, is equally fallacious. The decision reflected in the minutes of
 such board meeting was in furtherance of the decisions taken by the board at its
earlier meetings, including at the adjourned 60th meeting on August 19, 2011
and at the 61st meeting on October 22, 2011 and not in derogation thereof. At
any rate, the letters of cancellation or the proposed steps to cancel the relevant
allotments - whether or not the names of the relevant allottees were included in
the charts appended to the notes pertaining to the 61st board meeting of the
company of October 22, 2011 - have been endorsed and ratified by the
subsequent conduct of the company and its filing of affidavits in the present
proceedings, including the supplementary affidavit affirmed by its present
chairman-cum-managing director in WP 5158(W) of 2013. 252. In the light of the factual position that has emerged in course of the
present proceedings, none of the allotments made in favour of the petitioners
appears to be beyond question or on the basis of any rational exercise of
discretion or by way of any fair procedure. The facts show that the erstwhile
chairman of the company vainly perceived that he had unfettered discretion to
make allotment of plots to whoever he pleased without assigning any reasons or
without reference to the guidelines. The discretion was exercised in a most
capricious, inequitable and feudal manner. There was no basis in the choice of
the beneficiaries from among many and the manner of exercise of discretion does
not satisfy the tests laid down by high judicial authorities. 253. Two of the petitions carry applications that have either outserved their
purpose or have worked themselves out in course of the final hearing. CAN 6406
of 2014 in the lead petition, WP 2522(W) of 2014, for supply of various
documents, stands disposed of without any further order. CAN 9338 of 2012 in
WP 4575(W) of 2012 has become meaningless in the light of the judgment above. 254. WP 2522(W) of 2014, WP 37304(W) of 2013, WP 5158(W) of 2013, WP
2531(W) of 2012, WP 28365(W) of 2013, WP 30170(W) of 2013, WP 4737(W) of
2014, WP 3162(W) of 2014, WP 2565(W) of 2014, WP 2521(W) of 2014, WP
 2523(W) of 2014, WP 36986(W) of 2013, WP 6011(W) of 2014, WP 36271(W) of
2013, WP 4574(W) of 2012, WP 6440(W) of 2014, WP 21411(W) of 2013, WP
3132(W) of 2012, WP 7746(W) of 2012, WP 7752(W) of 2012, WP 3171(W) of
2012, WP 22170(W) of 2012, WP 24721(W) of 2012, WP 9162(W) of 2014, WP
1992(W) of 2014, WP 8059(W) of 2012, WP 7084(W) of 2012, WP 2395(W) of
2014, WP 21310(W) of 2011, WP 3816(W) of 2012, WP 4903(W) of 2012, WP
4325(W) of 2014, WP 30078(W) of 2013, WP 13956(W) of 2014, WP 27109(W) of
2014, WP 7468(W) of 2014, WP 65(W) of 2014, WP 67(W) of 2014, WP 68(W) of
2014, WP 70(W) of 2014, WP 37136(W) of 2013, WP 5562(W) of 2014, WP
5566(W) of 2014, WP 2735(W) of 2014, WP 2558(W) of 2014, WP 34290(W) of
2013, WP 224(W) of 2014, WP 5550(W) of 2012, WP 23157(W) of 2012, WP
4470(W) of 2012, WP 13996(W) of 2013, WP 3245(W) of 2012, WP 12617(W) of
2012, WP 36084(W) of 2013, WP 27353(W) of 2013, WP 2569(W) of 2014, WP
929(W) of 2014, WP 5655(W) of 2014, WP 25416(W) of 2012, WP 5988(W) of 2014
and WP 22158(W) of 2011 are dismissed and the impugned action, including the
letters of cancellation issued by the company, and proposed action of
cancellation of the allotments by the company are left undisturbed and not
interfered with. In the facts of the case, there will be no order as to costs. 255. The concluding thought is as to the adverse impact of the lack of probity in
public life which leads to a high degree of corruption. Corruption may not
necessarily imply the acceptance of illegal gratification: for when there is political
patronage or any form of favouritism or nepotism where the beneficiary of State
largesse is chosen not on the character of his application but on other
considerations as to his conduct or allegiance, the faith in the system as a whole
is shaken and there is a revulsion to conform to order in society. As much as this
decision may be used for political mileage, those in office today must remember
that they will be judged on the same basis. As a parting thought, one can do no
better than repeat the words of the Supreme Court in the Jain Hawala case
[(1998) 1 SCC 226 ( Vineet Narain v. Union of India )] after quoting from Lord
Nolan's Report of 1995 on "Standards in Public Life": 256. Certified website copies of this judgment, if applied for, be urgently made
available to the parties, subject to compliance with all requisite formalities. (Sanjib Banerjee, J.)

Later: