SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: MLMs in the market 
DATE: 2024-08-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ejv731/mlms_in_the_market/

--- POST TEXT ---

So recently, i was contacted by a member of the company called Team fire 64. Which is basically a MLM scheme, she shared a zoom meet link where i was given a lecture on "how to be financially independent without having any skills". He went on ranting about how AI is gonna takeover, how the layoffs are affecting people and shit. 

About 30 mins later, the meeting got over (there were hecking 800+ people). And he was like join our 2 days training session, it's open for 300 people, first 100 people are getting discount of 50 bucks. I reverted back to the one who told me about the scheme, she was like she's really enjoying doing this and all, i did a bit more f research on their scheme and asked her if i had to pay, initially she was like no, just pay for the training thing. 

I didn't leave her there, i knew the pyramid market strategy and told her that, from another source, I've got to know that i am supposed to buy their worthless products and then only i can be a part of their company. She was like yes, their products are good and she's using it. Whem i askee her about what the products she's using, she was like, telling these info os against their policy itseems ( like wth?) she also told me to join the training because, 50bucks isn't a great thing for her, i was like, dude, even 10 bucks are hecking important and i was persistent on asking her to name the products. She was like, if it was a fraud, she would've not gotten people into it. Later she got irked, and she was like "okay, leave it then, all the best for your future".

What I don't understand is that, why aren't people getting to know this schemes? Like are they so dumb? This has to be made illegal. Ik pyramid schemes are illegal as there are no products involved, but they sell some worthless products and continue. 

No hate for those who are already trapped. You are either in the upper or the lower part of the pyramid, where the distributors are the customers. All the best tho.

(Fun fact, she was my college senior)

Some other scam companies are, 
1. Biz Gurukul
and the list goes on. 

Please don't comment hatred on this post until you educatr yourself a bit from various resources available on the internet.