Gary Gensler, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will be stepping down on January 20 next year, the agency said in a press release . He will be stepping down more than year before his term ends, on the same day as President-Elect Donald Trump’s inauguration, who had previously announced his intention to fire Gensler on day one of his administration .

During his tenure, the SEC became known for its aggressive stance against the crypto industry, including high-profile litigations against Binance and Coinbase . Soon after his appointment, Gensler had slammed the crypto industry to be a “Wild West” and asked Congress to give the SEC the power to oversee cryptocurrency exchanges alongside crypto lending and trading.

The SEC subsequently went after Binance for thirteen counts of security violations, including allegedly deceiving investors about its risk control practices and manipulating the market to artificially increase the platform’s trading volume. Coinbase was next on the list, for allegedly failing to register itself as a securities trading platform.

The regulator also trained its targets on NFTs, sending legal notices to marketplaces like OpenSea , Yuga Labs and Impact Theory .

Gensler also publicly battled the US legislature, extensively criticising the ‘Financial Innovation and Technology for the 21st Century Act,’ a bill supported by both Democratic and Republican members of the US House of Representatives. According to the SEC chief, this act watered down regulations for the crypto market and reduced investor protections.

On the other hand, Trump has managed to get the crypto industry to rally behind him. He promised to “make Bitcoin great again” in the same speech where he talked about firing Gensler. He also came out with his own cryptocurrency, World Liberty Financial, and announced that he would ensure that the US government held on to all of its crypto reserves. Trump also promised a first ever crypto advisory council. Trumps election victory caused Bitcoin to soar even higher, with Gensler’s resignation givng a further boost .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event