YouTube has announced a partnership with Creative Artists Agency (CAA), a major talent agency in the United States, to automatically detect and manage deepfakes featuring CAA clients. The partnership was announced on December 17, will begin early next year, and will provide major American celebrities managed by the CAA access to “early-stage technology” designed to identify AI-generated content that features their likeness. The tool will not only detect deepfakes but also allow the subjects to easily submit removal requests through YouTube’s privacy complaints mechanism.

YouTube indicated that this partnership would act as a test for their technology, helping them incorporate feedback from the artists, before they released it to a wider group of creators and artists. The platform plans on including more YouTube creators, creative professionals, and other talent managers.

The rise of easily accessible AI tools has brought with it a number of celebrity deepfakes. In January this year, sexually explicit deepfake images of popular singer Taylor Swift began circulating on the internet, especially on X, where “Taylor Swift AI” was a trending topic for two days. The incident even prompted the White House to call for legislation protecting people from inappropriate deepfakes featuring their likeness. A similar incident occurred in India with actress Rashmika Mandanna , following which the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) instructed social media platforms to take down deepfake content within 24 hours.

Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar also drew attention to the phenomenon on X, when he found out deepfake versions of himself promoting an online betting game.

Platforms like YouTube seem to have taken cognizance of the problem. The video hosting site announced in November last year that it would allow users to report deepfakes and request removal. It also stated that if the person making the request was a well-known individual, there would be a “higher-bar” for removal and that it would take into consideration if the content was satire or not. It also began requiring creators to reveal if their videos contained synthetic or AI generated content.

YouTube also updated its harassment and cyberbullying policy in January to state that it would remove videos that realistically simulated minors or victims of major crimes recounting their experiences. This policy change came after a rise in true crime content on YouTube and TikTok featuring AI-generated victims describing their ordeal.

The platform also updated its privacy guidelines in July to allow users to report their own deepfakes.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event