SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of people asking for Aadhar Number over the telephone on the pretext of pending KYC for bank accounts.
DATE: 2018-01-09
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7p89au/beware_of_people_asking_for_aadhar_number_over/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tldr; Do not provide your Aadhar number over the telephone to any one under any circumstance. Go to your nearest branch for KYC. For verifying authenticity of the caller, ask for details about your bank account; name of branch, account number, types and number of accounts you hold in the branch. Spread awareness amongst people; especially those who can easily be a victim of such frauds.

Today I was called from a mobile number pretending to be a call from SBI.
The person on the other side of the telephone seemed very professional and started the conversation mimicking someone who actually works in SBI.
He started off saying that my KYC was pending and that my passbook and debit card would be blocked of I do not update my KYC. He would be sending an SMS to my number and I should reply to the number with my Aadhar and PAN details.
I informed him that my KYC was already completed and asked him to give details proving his authenticity.
At this he stated that he was calling from the "main branch" in Noida and that my Aadhar number was not showing in the "central database".
Side note: SBI sends a letter stating "KYC status stands verified" after successful verification. I have already received this letter, so, I played along.
I informed him that I have already completed the KYC verification and then asked him state the name of the branch in which I had my account.
At this he quickly concluded, "If you are absolutely sure that KYC has been completed, then it is alright", and disconnected the call.

Some of my friends and family members have also dealt with similar fraud calls.

Do not provide your Aadhar number over the telephone to any one under any circumstance. Go to your nearest branch for KYC. For verifying authenticity of the caller, ask for details about your bank account; name of branch, account number, types and number of accounts you hold in the branch. Spread awareness amongst people; especially those who can easily be a victim of such frauds.