SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: False accusations ruined my brother.
DATE: 2023-04-09
SCORE: 182
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12gengq/false_accusations_ruined_my_brother/

--- POST TEXT ---

My brother is an average kid. He was very much into gaming. He made a small video game .It took him two years to complete. He was also 17 that time. So, my cousins family was staying with us. They were in my town for a wedding. My brother showed his game to all the other cousin but Nandini was invested in the game other cousins were not. They carried on with their fun and I went to Library. 

When I came back from Library my father was beating Avi. I stopped him but my uncle(Nandini's father) and father cornered him. They explained that Avi haf put his hand in Nandini's clothes and tried to provoke a sexual interest in her and tried to sleep on he and kiss her. She also said that he touched her multiple times in the past. I was shocked because when I let these two were having a great time. Avi said she was lying, they only played games. Nandini showed some texts between her and Avi claiming he was blackmailing her. It wasn't anything out of the ordinary but he had deleted many messages. He said he was talking about the family dispute from the past but I didn't believe him and nobody did. 

So, he was beaten. His face was swollen and they stopped. In a fit of rage my father remove the computer and CPU, the force he pulled it with damaged the monitor. They took his phone, found a upi payment of rupees 2000. Avi said he only lend money to his friend and when they called his friend he confirmed. But my father still had his doubts. He convinced my uncle to not go to the police and that he will never do it again. 

My parents stopped talking with Avi. They didn't ask him anything, they didn't pay anything for him. They took away his phone and computer and he wasn't allowed to go out. My mother lied to his friends that he wasn't studying and only playing games so this is his punishment. At that time even I hated Avi, to which now I'm feeling guilty.

Fast forward to this year. On 1st April Nandini made a reel on Instagram. She has 4k followers. So, she made a reel on how one of her pranks escalated and she cannot tell the truth because of that. She explained she got her cousin pranked but it went too far. Now this, someone from the family shared this reel on the family group. And that made everyone very furious. That Saturday my father brought 2 large pizzas. My father didn't say sorry but he just told him to eat the pizza and get over it now, there is no point in creating more drama inside the family. My brother wept as he ate the pizza. I remember he cried to me in diwali that he was innocent and didn't do anything and i just said yea whatever. Now, I feel bad. Anyway, my mother was trying her best to make him speak but he wouldn't speak a word. Few days later my uncle and father got him the New iPhone 14. Hoping that this would solve the problem. But he didn't even open that box. 

Uncle finally decided to bring Nandini to apologize. She took a little beating because my whole family gathered for the drama. She deleted her insta also. And he still didn't speak a single word he just kept staring. I know he's trying to get back to my parents. They didn't speak with him for a year. I got his computer repaired but he didn't even touch it.

What should I do next? How can I help him?