SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Got SCAMMED on 1st day of new year. Everything that could have went wrong, did at that moment.
DATE: 2025-01-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hrypgq/got_scammed_on_1st_day_of_new_year_everything/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is going to be a long read and i will sound very dumb so please bear with me. I was working out like usual around 6pm and i was pretty tired when i recieved a call. It was unknown number i picked up (1. i never pickup unknown calls but did today for the 1st time).

The person claimed my father has asked him to send me money (2. My father usually asks me or my mom to transact for him so it was normal. However, I always comfirm with my father before recieving or sending any money, for the 1st time i didn't).

The guy said he was supposed to send me 10000 therefore needed my upi number which i disclosed to him. He transffered 1st 8000 and i recieved the text message. (3. He didn't, what he sent me was a text message with his 2nd number just like the bank ones exactlt copied with some random account number and transaction id. for the 1st time I ignored that whenver i send or recieve any money i recieve the message from my bank and also truecaller shows a message highlighting the amount).

I thought i have recieved and he proceeds to send the remaing money but the message i recieve was 20000 this time instead of 2000. he asked me to return the rest. I was dumb enough to not check it. and ended up transferring him the remaining 18000. (4. I always cross verify whenever i recieve any money but for the 1st time in my life i didn't).

It was when i sent him money and he asked me that he was sending another 25k to me and asked me to transfer them to 2nd number because he wasn't able to do so i when i caught up. I quickly check my account and i realised i lost the money.

I contacted my dad told him about the whole senario. Also immediately contacted the bank, raised a disput against fraud and got my upi, net banking, debit card and bank app blocked within 5 min. Next i called to the 1930 and registered the required complaint. Today i visited the bank again and they raised a fresh dispute. Today i recieved the message from the bank that the 1st dispute was closed because i paid him with my upi only so it can't be treated as fraud but the second one remains.

My question is anything else that i can do. I have all the numbers, chats, payment screenshots, his upi id-the one i paid to. Is there any way to trace him? Can anyone help me find his location or identity? I know it sounds where dumb what i am asking but I tried asking the bank guy but go no help from there. Also the people in the bank or the police seem so unbothered by all these. All they did was try to convince me that i lost money and there is no point in proceeding further. Made me realise how slow the system is and how everyone forces to accept the situation and escape the work they might have to do. But i did what i could anyways.

I feel very dumb. All the blunders that i could have done, i did altogether within a span of 3-4mins. My peace of mind is gone. 
Anyone who can help me in tracing him further or any sugesstions to proceed further with be really helpful. Or anyother intel based on his numbers or upi id. Please Guide me. It'll be a big help.