1.	Heard, Shri Virendra Mishra, learned counsel for the appellants and Shri Paltoo Ram Gupta, learned counsel for the respondents. 2.	The instant Second Appeal has been filed against the judgment and decree dated 07.12.2016 passed by the Additional District Judge, Court no.9, Sitapur in Misc. Civil Case No.08 of 2014; Pati Rakhan Versus Smt. Chandrani by means of which the application for condonation of delay in filing appeal has been rejected and the judgment and decree dated 18.07.1987 passed by the learned Additional Civil Judge, Sitapur in R.S.No.40 of 1983;Smt.Chandrani Devi Versus Raj Rani and others. 3.	The brief facts of the case for adjudication of the present Second Appeal, as borne out from the pleadings, are that one Brij Mohan had only two daughters, namely, Raj Rani wife of Anirudh Prasad and Ram Lali wife of Swami Dayal @ Dhondhey. Both the daughters had half share each in the property of Brij Mohan after his death. The respondent has claimed half of the property on the basis of sale deed executed on 18.04.1978 by Raj Rani. Rajeshwari @ Raj Rani had filed a suit for cancellation of the said sale deed vide R.S.No.229 of 1978. The Suit was decreed ex parte on 26.03.1980. The respondent had filed an application under Order 9 Rule 13 of the Civil Procedure Code, which was rejected on 02.12.1981. Thereafter the Misc. Appeal filed by the respondent was also dismissed on 20.01.1983. Consequently the respondent had filed Regular Suit No.40 of 1983 for cancellation of ex-parte decree dated 26.03.1980 and permanent injunction. The injunction was sought for whole of the property of late Brij Mohan on the ground that one of his daughter Raj Rani had executed a sale deed of the half portion and in regard to the remaining half portion the second daughter Ram Lali had executed a Will deed in favour of the respondent. The suit was decreed by means of judgment and decree dated 18.07.1987. The appellants filed a First Appeal on 22.01.2014 alongwith an application for condonation of delay vide Misc. Case No.8 of 2014 as injunction of the whole property was sought and granted on the ground that the injunction of property of Ram Lali has been obtained fraudulently without impleading the appellants and no Will was executed by late Ram Lali. After inviting objections and hearing the application for condonation of delay has been rejected. Consequently the appeal stands dismissed. Hence the instant Second Appeal has been filed. 4.	This second appeal was admitted on the following substantial questions of law:- 5.	Submission of learned counsel for the appellants was that the appellants, who are the sons of Ram Lali wife of Swami Dayal @ Dhondhey, were not impleaded in the Regular Suit No.40 of 1983 filed by the respondents despite the fact that injunction in regard to the property of Ram Lali was also sought. Therefore, the appellants could not know about the proceedings and judgment and order passed by the trial court. The appellants came to know about the judgment and decree dated 18.07.1987 when a copy of the same was filed by the respondent on 26.12.2013 in an appeal filed by the respondent Chandrani Versus Pati Rakhan and others under Section 11(2) of the U.P. Consolidation of Holdings Act 1953 before the Settlement Officer Consolidation, Sitapur. After coming to know about the order, the appellants applied for the certified copy of the order dated 18.07.1987 on 03.01.2014 and obtained the same. Thereafter applied for copies of all other documents on 09.01.2014 and 13.01.2014 to file the appeal and after receipt of the same the appeal was got prepared from 17.01.2014 to 19.01.2014 and thereafter filed the same on 22.01.2014 with an application for condonation of delay. But without considering the grounds raised by the appellants and that the Regular Suit was filed and the judgment and decree dated 18.07.1987 was obtained by playing fraud without impleading the appellants, who are legal heirs of Ram Lali the application for condonation of delay has been rejected merely on the ground that after passing of the judgment and decree dated 18.07.1087 in Regular Suit No.40 of 1983 many cases, relating to it, were contested by the parties of the said suit in various courts and revenue courts. While the appellants were admittedly not a party in the said suit. It was also submitted that the respondent herself had got filed an application for impleadment by some one impersonating as their mother Ram Lali, which was rejected, therefore, the appellants had no knowledge of it also. 6.	He further submitted that in view of Section 17 read with Article 123 of the Limitation Act 1963, limitation to set-aside ex-parte decree and the decree obtained by fraud will start from the date of the knowledge and discovery of the fraud, but it has not been considered by the appellate court. He also submitted that the respondent, while filing the suit for setting aside the decree, had not disclosed the earlier proceedings of application under Order 9 Rule 13 of the CPC and the appeal filed by the respondent in regard to the judgment and decree in question. He also submitted that it is settled proposition of law that the judgment and decree obtained by fraud is nullity in the eyes of law and it can be challenged at any time and its invalidity can be set up at any time even in collateral proceedings. 7.	On the basis of above learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the judgment and order passed by the appellate court is liable to be set aside and the appeal is liable to be allowed. Learned counsel for the petitioner has relied on Gauhati University Versus Niharlal Bhattacharjee; (1995) 6 SCC 731, Yashoda Devi and others Versus Special/Additional District Judge, Paratapgarh and others; 2008 (26) LCD 1, Ram Autar and others Versus Board of Revenue, Allahabad and others; 2016 (34) LCD 2724, Jeet Narain and another Versus Govind Prasad and others; 2010 ( 110) RD 374, Suresh Giri and others versus Board of Revenue, U.P. at Allahabad through its Registrar and others; 2010 (109) RD 566, Gama versus Board of Revenue U.P, Allahabad and others; 2015 (126) RD 334, Dahari Lal and others Versus Deputy Director of Consolidation and others; 2010 (110) RD 736, Rikhdev and another Versus A.D.M.(F), Azamgarh and others; 2011 (114) RD 631, S.P.Chengalvaraya Naidu (dead) by LRs. Versus Jagannath (dead) by LRs and others; (1994) 1 SCC 1, State of Maharashtra and another Versus Rattan Lal; 1993 All.C.J.1077 (SC), United India Insurance Company Ltd. Versus Rajendra Singh and others; 2000(18) LCD 586 (SC), Manoj Kumar Versus Commissioner, Luckow Division, Lucknow and another; 2017 (35) LCD 1778, Dodram Versus Collector, Pilibhit and others; 2014 (125) RD 333, Ram Niwas Singh and others Versus Deputy Director of Consolidation, Gorakhpur and others; 2016 (5) ADJ 710, Executive Officer, Antiyur Town Panchayat Versus G.Arumugam (D) by LRs; 2015 (128) RD 80 and N.Balakrishnan, Appellant Versus M.Krisnamurthy, Respondent; AIR 1998 Supreme Court 3222. 8.	Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent does not dispute that Brij Mohan had two daughters, namely Raj Rani and Ram Lali. But he submitted that Raj Rani had executed a sale deed of her half portion in favour of the respondent and Ram Lali had executed a Will deed of her half portion in favour of respondent. He further submitted that since Ram Lali had already died, which was mentioned in the plaint, therefore, there was no occasion to implead her or her legal heirs. He further submitted that though the marriage of Ram Lali was settled but the groom had died on the date of marriage so she had not married and she died unmarried. The appellants were the sons of Kokila who was impleaded and not of Ram Lali. Kokila had also filed an application for impleadment by impersonating her as Ram Lali in R.S.No.40 of 1983, but her application was dismissed in default on 07.03.1984 as she did not appear to give evidence. Kokila, the mother of the appellants was impleaded as Kokila was the wife of Dhondhey and the appellants are the sons of Dhondhey, which is apparent from the entries made in the electoral roll of 1975, a copy of which has been filed alongwith the objection. He further submitted that the name of the respondent was mutated in place of Smt. Raj Rani and Ram Lali on 14.03.1981. 9.	On the basis of above, learned counsel for the respondent had submitted that no fraud was played by the respondent by not impleading the appellants and in fact the fraud has been played by the appellants; firstly by trying to get Ram Lali impleaded in the suit by impersonation and secondly by filing highly time barred appeal showing them as the sons of Ram Lali while she had died unmarried on 05.07.1978. He had also submitted that the appellants had also filed an application for mutation and they were granted time to produce evidence but they did not appear so the same was rejected. Therefore, the application for condonation of delay has rightly been rejected by the concerned court and this appeal is misconceived and is devoid of any merit and is liable to be dismissed. Learned counsel for the respondents has relied on G. Ramegowda, Major and others Versus Special Land Acquisition Officer, Bangalore; (1988) 2 SCC 142 and In the matter of: Begum Shanti 
 
Tufail Ahmad Khan; 2005 (Suppl.) RD 214. 10.	I have considered the submissions of learned counsels of the parties and perused the records. 11.	The undisputed facts are that one Brij Mohan had two daughters, namely Raj Rani and Ram Lali and after his death both had half share each in the said property. Raj Rani had executed a sale deed in favour of the respondent, which was set aside by means of the exparte judgment and decree dated 26.03.1980 passed in Regular Suit No.229 of 1978;Smt.Rajeshwari Versus Smt.Chandrani Devi. Hence after dismissal of the application under Order 9 Rule 13 of CPC and the appeal, Regular Suit No.40 of 1983 was filed for setting aside the judgment and decree dated 26.03.1980 and for permanent injunction in regard to whole of the property of Raj Rani and Ram Lali. Ram Lali or her heirs were not impleaded in the said suit and it was mentioned that Ram Lali had died on 05.07.1978. Claim for injunction in regard to the property of Ram Lali was set up on the basis of the alleged Will executed by her. The suit was decreed by means of the judgment and decree dated 18.07.1987. This second appeal is in regard to the property of Ram Lali only. 12.	The appellants had filed a highly time barred appeal on 22.01.2014 against the judgment and decree dated 18.07.1987 on the ground that the decree was obtained by playing fraud by not impleading the appellants, who are the legal heirs of Ram Lali, therefore, they had no knowledge of the judgment and decree. On coming to know about the same on 26.12.2013, when it was filed by the respondent in an appeal under Section 11(2) of the U.P. Consolidation of Holdings Act, the appeal was filed therefore it was within time from the date of knowledge. The learned appellate court has not considered the plea of fraud raised by the appellants and the application for condonation of delay in filing the appeal has been rejected merely on the ground that after passing of the judgment and decree many cases were contested in various courts and revenue court between the parties of Regular Suit No.40 of 1983, but has not considered that the appellants were not party in the said suit and also whether the said judgment and decree was brought before the court in any proceeding by the respondent prior to 26.12.2013. 13. Section 17 of the Indian Limitation Act provides the effect of fraud or mistake, which is reproduced below:- the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff or applicant has discovered the fraud or the mistake or could, with reasonable diligence, have discovered it; or in the case of a concealed document, until the plaintiff or the applicant first had the means of producing the concealed document or compelling its production: 14. Article 123 of the Limitation Act provides the limitation in the case where the summons or notice was not duly served, which is 30 days from the date of knowledge of the ex-parte decree. Article 123 is reproduced below:- To set aside a decree passed ex parte or to rehear an appeal decreed or heard ex parte. Explanation.- For the purpose of this article, substituted service under Rule 20 of Order V of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 shall not be deemed to be due service. Thirty days. The date of the decree or where the summons or notice was not duly served, when the applicant had knowledge of the decree. 15.	The Hon'ble Apex Court considered the Article 123 in the case of Gauhati University Versus Niharlal Bhattacharjee (Supra) and held that the limitation begins to run only when the appellant had knowledge of ex parte decree. 16.	This court, in the case of Yashoda Devi and others Versus Special/Additional District Judge, Pratapgarh and others (Supra), has held that the period of limitation will start to run from the date of knowledge of contents of exparte decree and not from the date of mere knowledge of exparte decree. 17.	This court, in the case of Ramautar and others Versus Board of Revenue, Allahabad and others (Supra), after considering the effect of Article 123 of the Limitation Act held that limitation of 90 days has been provided from the date of the decree where summons or notice was duly served and when summons or notice was not duly served then 90 days from the date of knowledge of exparte decree and held that the application under Order 9 Rule 13 CPC filed on 01.08.2013 for setting aside the order dated 31.01.1981 was within time from the date of knowledge of the decree and ignored the delay of 30-32 years. 18.	The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of Jeet Narain and another Versus Govind Prasad and others (Supra), held that it is now well settled that fraud unravels everything and observed that the courts below have rejected the claim of the appellant therein only on the ground of limitation and they have not considered the dispute on merit. Therefore while considering the application for condonation of delay the merit of the case is also liable to be seen. 19.	This Court, in the case of Suresh Giri and others Versus Board of Revenue, U.P. at Allahabad through its Registrar and others (Supra), has held that the fraud vitiates every solemn act and an act of fraud is always to be viewed seriously. The relevant paragraph 19 is extracted below:- 20.	This court, in the case of Gama Versus Board of Revenue U.P. Allahabad and others (Supra), has held that in case of fraud limitation starts from the date when the fraud is discovered for the first time by the aggrieved person under Section 17 of the Limitation Act. The relevant paragraph 8 is extracted below:- In view of above in case of plea of fraud it was required to be considered as to when the alleged fraud was discovered by the appellants because the limitation would start from that date only. 21.	This Court, in the case of Dahari Lal and others Versus Deputy Director of Consolidation and others (Supra), has held that where an order is obtained by playing fraud, embargo of limitation does not come in the way. 22.	This Court, in the case of Rikhdev and another Versus A.D.M.(F), Azamgarh and others (Supra), has held that it is well settled principle of law that any judgment or order obtained by fraud is nullity and non est in the eye of law and can be challenged in any court, at any time, in appeal, revision, writ or even in collateral proceedings. The relevant paragraphs 26, 27 and 39 are extracted below:- 27. It is settled proposition of law that a judgment, decree or order obtained by playing fraud on the Court, Tribunal or Authority is a nullity and non est in the eye of law. Such a judgment, decree or order by the first Court or by the final Court has to be treated as nullity by every Court, superior or inferior. It can be challenged in any Court, at any time, in appeal, revision, writ or even in collateral proceedings. 39. In para-39 of the judgment of A.V. Papayya Sastry (supra), it has been laid down that it is established that when an order was obtained by a successful party by practising or playing fraud, it is vitiated. Such order cannot be held legal, valid or in consonance with law. It is non-existent and non est and cannot be allowed to stand. This is the fundamental principle of law and needs no further elaboration. Therefore, it has been said that a judgment, decree or order obtained by fraud has to be treated as nullity, whether by the court of first instance or by the final court. And it has to be treated as non est by every Court, superior or inferior." 23.	The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of S.P.Chengalvaraya Naidu (Dead) By LRs Versus Joganath (Dead) by LRs and others (Supra), about fraud and the effect of decree obtained by fraud has held as under in paragraph 1:- 24.	The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of State of Maharashtra and another Versus Rattan Lal (Supra), has held that on discovery of fraud, suppression or omission of fact, the authority is suo moto competent to reopen the proceedings and the period of limitation would start running from the date of such discovery. 25.	The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of United India Insurance Company Ltd. Versus Rajendra Singh and Others (Supra), has held that it is unrealistic to expect the appellant to resist a claim at the first instance on the basis of fraud because he had at that stage no knowledge about the fraud allegedly played by the claimants. The relevant paragraphs 15 and 16 are extracted below:- 26.	In view of above in case the decree has been obtained by playing fraud the limitation would start from the date of discovery of the fraud. It is obvious also because unless a party comes to know about the fraud played by the other party he would not have any cause of action to challenge the same. Similarly in the case of ex-parte decree unless the concerned party comes to know about the ex-party proceeding and decree passed against him he cannot challenge the same. When a person has not been imleaded in any proceeding it is not expected that he would be knowing about the proceedings unless it is specifically shown by the other party as to how it was in the knowledge of the person who is challenging and when it was known to him. 27.	In the present case Lower Appellate Court, without ascertaining as to whether the appellants had any knowledge about the passing of the decree before 26.12.2013, has rejected the application while there was no specific denial by the other side except that many cases were contested between the parties in regard to the property in question. It has never been disclosed as to whether the impugned jugement and decree was ever brought before the appellants in any such proceedings before 26.12.2013. 28. 	A plea was taken by the opposite party that Ram Lali had executed the alleged Will. The objection was filed before the lower appellate court against the application for condonation of delay with a plea that Smt. Ram Lali had no issue and she had died many years ago, but it is not mentioned that she was unmarried. The objection was mainly filed on the ground that the appellants were not party before the trial court, therefore, they have no right to file an appeal. It has also been alleged that in the original suit Smt. Kokila, the defendant in the suit, had tried to get impleaded impersonating as Smt. Ram Lali but the application was dismissed in default as she did not appear to give evidence whereas the application was rejected by means of the order dated 07.03.1984 with a finding that there is dispute in regard to the death of Smt. Ram Lali and the defendants may get her examined as a witness so there is no justification of her impleadment. In this view of the matter admittedly the appellants were not party in the original suit, therefore, the application could not have been dismissed merely on the ground that many cases have been contested between the parties of Regular Suit No.40 of 1983 in many courts and revenue court. 29.	It was mentioned in paragraph 15 of the Suit that the defendant nos.1 and 2 are the real sisters whereas in the suit itself, a copy of which is available in the lower court record, it was mentioned in paragraph 3 and 7 that Smt. Rajeshwari and Ram Lali were real sisters and daughters of late Brij Mohan. Even then Smt. Raj Rani and Smt. Rajeshwari were impleaded, as defendant nos.1 and 2, both showing the wife of late Anirudh Prasad. Therefore, the submission of learned counsel for the appellants seems to be correct that Smt.Raj Rani and Rajeshwari were one and the same lady and both the names were of Smt. Raj Rani and the other sister was Ram Lali. Subsequently the name of Smt. Rajeshwari was got deleted also from the suit. It smacks of some mischief, which is required to be considered. 30.	The application for condonation of delay in filing appeal cannot be rejected merely on the ground that there is great delay because the law of limitation is not meant to take away the right of appeal and the length of delay is not very much material if there is some substance in ground and on merit also. 31. 	The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of Shakuntala Devi Jain Versus Kuntal Kumari; AIR 1969 SC 575, has held that unless want of bonafides of such inaction or negligence as would deprive a party of the protection of section 5 is proved, the application must not be thrown out or any delay cannot be refused to be condoned. 32.	This court, in the case of Manoj Kumar Versus Commissioner, Lucknow Division, Lucknow and another (Supra), after considering several judgments of the Hon'ble Apex court, has held in paragraph 14 as under:- 33.	Similar view has been taken by this court in the case of Dodram Versus Collector, Pilibhit and others (Supra) and Ram Newas Singh and others Versus Deputy Director of Consolidation, Gorakhpur and others (Supra), relevant paragraph 7 of which is extracted below:- 34.	The Hon'ble Apex Court has also taken similar view in the case of Executive Officer, Antiyur Town Panchayat Versus G.Arumugam (D) by LRs (Supra). However the same may not be applicable on the present case because in that case the Hon'ble Court has held that in case there is an attempt on the part of the Government officials or public servants to defeat justice by causing delay, the court, in view of the larger public interest, should take a lenient view and condone the delay. 35.	In view of above, the Rules of limitation are not meant to destroy the right of the parties, rather they are meant to see that the parties do not resort to dilatory tactices to seek their remedy promptly. Therefore while considering the application for condonation of delay the court has to see carefully the explanation given by the aggrieved person and also the objection and if there is some substance in the explanation the delay may be condoned. The period is not very material because some times the delay of a very short period may not be condonable, but sometimes the long delay may be condonable if the explanation seems to be justified and sometimes looking to the merit of the case also the delay may be condoned so that the injustice may not be done to a party. In case of fraud, the limitation will not come in the way if it is within time from the date of discovery of fraud or further delay has been sufficiently explained which is to be seen by the concerned court. 36.	This view is fortified by the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of N.Balakrishnan, Versus M.Krishnamurthy (Supra), the relevant paragraphs 8 to 13 are extracted below:- 37.	 The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of G.Ramegowda, Major and others Versus Special Land Acquisition Officer, Bangalore (Supra), has held that if there is negligence, deliberate or gross inaction or lack of bona fides on the part of the party or its counsel there is no reason why the opposite side should be exposed to a time-barred appeal. However, each case will have to be considered on the particularities of its own special facts and the expression 'sufficient cause' in Section 5 must receive a liberal construction so as to advance substantial justice. The relevant paragraph 14 is extracted below:- It must be grasped that judiciary is respected not on account of its power to legalise injustice on technical grounds but because it is capable of removing injustice and is expected to do so." 38.	In the case of In the matter of: Begum Shanti Tufail Ahmad Khan; 2005 (Suppl.) RD 214, relied by learned counsel for respondent, a Coordinate Bench of this court has held that the law of limitation is a law of repose based on rules of estoppel. It serves an important purpose of bringing finality to state of affairs which have prevailed in the knowledge of parties for sufficiently long period of time. This court refused to grant probate and dismissed the case as the laches were not adequately explained on record. However, it is not applicable on the facts and circumstances of present case. 39.	In view of above, this court is of the considered opinion that the First Appellate court has failed to consider the grounds raised by the appellants for condonation of delay in filing the first appeal and the law applicable on it and has rejected the application without recording any finding in regard to the pleas raised by the appellants and the date of knowledge as to when they came to know about the judgment and decree impugned in the appeal. Therefore, the judgment and decree passed by the Lower Appellate Court is not sustainable in the eye of law and is liable to be set aside. The substantial questions of law are decided accordingly. 40.	The second appeal is partly allowed. The judgment and decree dated 07.12.2016 passed in Misc. Civil Case No.08 of 2014;Pati Rakhan Versus Smt. Chandrani by the Additional District Judge, Court no.9, Sitapur is hereby set aside. The lower appellate court is directed to reconsider and decide the case afresh in accordance with law and the observations made here-in-above in this judgment. 41.	No orders as to costs. .........................................(Rajnish Kumar,J.)
 
Order Date :-03.02.2021
 
Banswar