Appellant was the complainant in C.C No.384/10 on the file of CDRF Ernakulam. 2.  The grievance of the complainant is that the complainant had an agricultural electricity connection as Consumer No.7810 for agricultural irrigation purpose.  There is a pump house in which the motor was kept.  On 03/04/2010 the officials of the opposite party inspected the pump house and issued a penal bill dated 30/04/2010 for Rs.70,443/-.  The allegation against the complainant was that a service centre was functioning.  The electric connection was disconnected without notice and issued the bill.  Though the complainant preferred objection it was not considered.  The opposite party inspected the pump house and found some electrical articles including one old air conditioner, motor etc.  It is the definite case of the complainant that the articles including electrical materials were stored in that room only.  The complainant's husband was a Gulf returnee and he need not conduct a service station in the pump house.  It is also stated in the complaint that the inspection conducted on 20/04/2010 but the engineer who conducted the inspection signed on 29/04/2010.  There was nothing to penalise the complainant.  The bill was issued in enemity by the lineman with the complainant's family.  The penal bill was prepared by calculating additional load and converted it into LTVIIA tariff which is baseless and arbitrarily changed the tarrif.  The complainant prayed for re-connection of the electricity connection and also to quash the bill for Rs.70,443/- issued by the opposite parties and prayed for Rs.15,000/- as compensation. 3.  The opposite party filed detailed version contenting that the complainant used the electrical connection for other purposes which were intended only for agricultural purpose.  The opposite parties on inspection found out that there were two more pumps in the premises.  The equipments which were connected to electrical line were taken into account for penalisation.  The power connection given for agricultural purpose was extended at a concessional rate and had 2 additional pumps connected in the pump room. It is also found out that an air conditioner was connected in the adjacent room which was used as a service room.  The misuse of energy was assessed on assuming the usage as 4 hours per day with a load factor of 0.6.  The air conditioner was installed with all accessories fitted on the wall.  So it is quite evident that the air conditioner was regularly used by the complainant.  The mistake in the date of inspection is an inadvertent mistake and the inspection was conducted on 29/04/2010 and on that date itself the complainant's husband signed as witness in the mahazar.  The opposite party calculated the bill in accordance with the provisions of law.  The complainant was given an opportunity to be heard on 29/05/2010 and  the explanation given by the complainant was not satisfactory.  The electrical items and materials connected used cannot be considered as dumped in the pump house.  It is also stated that the electricity which was exclusively intended for the agricultural purposes was misused by the complainant.  The tariff for penalisation was based on the connected load and it was used as a service room.  No deficiency in service committed by the opposite party and the disconnection of agricultural line and the issuance of bill is rightly done by the opposite parties. 4.  Before the Form below the complainant's husband gave oral evidence as PW1 and documents A1 to A12 were marked.  The opposite party was examined as DW1.  On appreciation of evidence, the Forum below found out that there had illegal extension and unauthorized load connected in the premises of the complainant and justified the issuance of the penal bill and dismissed the complaint. 5.  The learned counsel for the appellant/complainant submitted that the inspection conducted by the opposite parties does not reveal any unauthorized electrical equipments connected to the electrical supply.  It is in evidence that during the inspection there had no connection to any equipment in that room.  It is an admitted fact that there had some electrical equipment and some unused electrical items in the room.  The counsel pointed out that the husband of complainant was an Electrical Engineer who returned from Gulf Countries and he brought some equipment.  He also submitted that when they returned from Gulf Countries the air conditioner was brought and kept in the pump house and it was not connected at all.  The pump house was used only as a store room for unused electrical materials.  It is also argued that there is no evidence that the air conditioner was in working condition.  The Mahazar prepared by the opposite parties were not proved properly.  Though the inspection was conducted on 20/04/2010, the Mahazar was prepared on 29/04/2010 and the genuineness of the Mahazar is disputed.  The electrical connection was used only for agriculture purpose.  The meter was also in order.  It is also submitted that the agricultured connection was paid through the Krishi Bhavan  in a lower rate and bills were kept by the complainant. The penalization of huge amount is without appreciating the actual facts.  The bill was issued on personal vendetta of the lineman who had enemity with the husband of the appellant.  No excess reading or any complaint for the meter was reported so far and the meter is in working condition.  Six consecutive electrical bills were produced by the appellant to substantiate his contention that the meter was running properly.  There is no case for the complainant that the bills were not in order and the meter was recording the actual consumption.  It is also submitted that the electrical authorities have not checked the working condition of the meter also.  The bill issued by the respondent is to set aside and the appeal is to be allowed in favour of the appellant. 6.  Opposing the arguments raised by the counsel for appellant, the respondent's counsel argued that the appellant was using the electrical connection which was exclusively for agricultural purpose was found out using for other purposes.  On inspection the pump house intended for the agricultural irrigation was having two more pump sets and other electrical items in the room.  The bills for the irrigation purpose were remitted through the Krishi Bhavan at a very low rate.  It is also found out that an air conditioner in a fitted condition and was having connection.  This was evident from the Mahazar prepared by the respondent which was countersigned by the husband of the appellant.  As per the Mahazar the authorized connection load was 2238 watts whereas the unauthorized connection of 3HP motor was connected from the main switch.  There had a double switch connected to power plug with 30A capacity and lamp of 100 watts also connected.  The Mahazar was countersigned by the complainant's husband who was present on the same day and the Mahazar is to be taken into evidence as a proof on the part of opposite parties.  The complainant was given sufficient opportunity to file objection regarding Mahazar also.  It is true that the objection was rejected as it is found unsatisfactory.  Further contention is that the complainant was having only 23 cents of agricultural land where as persons eligible for agricultural connection should possess an area of 30 cents of land.  The tariff for penalization was based on the usage of electricity as there had unauthorized connection which was calculated and assumed to have a usage of 4 hours per day with low factor of 0.6.  The counsel also pointed out that the change of date is only an error committed by the officials.  It is also submitted that the bill was prepared on the basis of the equipments connected in the pump house.  There had misuse of electricity by the appellant.  The respondent is entitled to issue panel bill against misuse of the electricity and the penalization is calculated as per law. 5.  We heard both the counsels in detail and had gone through the records on file.  We are of the considered view that the appellant/complainant who was enjoying the electrical connection under agricultural connection was having 2 pumps in addition to the pump used for the agriculture purpose.  As per the Mahazar the appellant connected the air conditioner on the wall in a connected position.  It is also in evidence that there had soldering iron and some other materials.  Though it could not be found out that there had equipments it can be used for service station as there had equipments inside the room.  It is also an admitted fact that the appellant had two pumps rooms fitted in the pump house.  This it shows that there had misuse of electricity.  Further from the evidence of the complainant's husband, it is clear that they were having only 50 cents of land out of which only 23 cents of land is used for agriculture.  From that itself we have to infer that the complainant is not entitled for agricultural connection as she is not having 30 cents of land.  It is also evident that she had not secured separate connection for the pumps connected in the pump house.  From the materials on record it is clear that the appellant was using agriculture connection for other purposes also and misuse of energy and unauthorized conception of energy were also very clear from the evidence on record.  Further it was also not proved that the air conditioner was in a working condition.  The penal bill was issued for one year additional load in LTVIIA tariff.  As per misuse of energy, unauthorized load is to be presumed that such unauthorized use of electricity was continuing preceding the date of inspection.  In the instant case the penal bill was issued for a period of one year (12 months). In the result, the appeal is dismissed and we find no ground to interfere with the order based by the Forum below. The office is directed to send a copy of this order to the Forum below along with LCR.