SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Can't recover from the trauma of getting scammed
DATE: 2024-12-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hi2skv/cant_recover_from_the_trauma_of_getting_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

I(20M) am getting really hopeless about the future of India or even the humanity as a whole... Here's a overview of what happened with me
I recently went to my material uncle's home (rural area) and because his business took a hit, he asked me to help him start a new business (I'm from delhi and as you know Delhi is the hub for every good) 

So I researched about it and I figured out Footwear business can be a good business to start... After 2 months of literally roaming around the street and knowing as much as I can.. I finally decided to start a business... Gathered alot of courage and found a sweet man of similar age who literally spend the whole day with me in the factory and did all the fake promises... 

So... I was set and I asked my uncle about it and he warned be to be careful with people but I ignored that...My uncle invested 1Lakh in the business and my brother also have me 50k (he recently joined the job in June)... I buyed goods worth 1.5Lakhs from that 1 guy and next day he dispatched some of the goods and promised to do rest after a day Or so... 

After 14 days when I went to my uncle's town to start the business, I figured out theigoods I received worth only worth 60k and I thought aprox 1.3lakhs worth of good were already dispatched... After continuously saying him to dispatched my good, he said he did it but he lied to me... He send the goods one month after the same... And still the goods aren't worth more than 1.3lakhs for which I paid 1.5lakhs... 

Cherry on the cake was my uncle backed off saying that you do the business and I am here if you get into any trouble... I don't wanna ruin my relationship with my uncle so I decided I cannot live in the rural area and I decided to sell the goods and get off... 

Now, I realized like how bad the Indian market is... I realized why businesses close... People are crooks, they donot care about anyone but themselves... I cannot tell you what I feel... You can say I lost all 50k my brother gave me and my brother being a gentleman says *you got a lesson get over it,we have alot to achieve right now*
And I can say he was sad but he is now cool with it...(I am into capital markets and I manage all the money of the house and see where I can invest and make good yield and I am pretty good at it..) 

I have recovered my loose of 50k by stock markets and other instrument and it's been less than 6months so I don't care about the money anymore... But I feel like what the help actually happened, how can a market like this thrive while people are literally vultures... I am a believer of karma and I know God will make that di*k pay for the scam he did... But bro how can people like this even exist in this kind of world... Don't they feel ashamed of people...

and for reference I can tell you he is an uneducated person so now after the incident, I don't really interact with people small businessman and uneducated people... I feel they got no ethics.. And I am more than happy to join the corporate and as I also have a passion for capital markets I think I can make a fortune in corporate and atleast corporate is not this much dirty... 

Also, I am a chill person who don't really let other's know when I'm hurting... Sometimes, my mom says that you made a loose of 50k and all and since I recovered it the topic comes to an end... But sometimes (like the one now) I feel so bad for what happened to me and how I wasted so much time and money into it... And most importantly the innocence in me is somewhere gone.. I don't see people same way as I used to... 

I swear it.. I day I will become an HNI and leave India forever on it's own