1. The present suit has been filed seeking relief of permanent injunction
 restraining the defendants from infringing the personality and publicity rights,
 goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff, along with other ancillary reliefs.
 PLEADINGS IN THE PLAINT 2. The plaintiff is a distinguished individual with a notable career in the
 investment and private equity sector. 3. The plaintiff is an alumnus of the Wharton School of Business at the
 University of Pennsylvania, where he graduated Magna Cum Laude with a
 Bachelor of Science in Economics. 4. After graduating, the plaintiff began his professional journey at Merrill
 Lynch, where he served in both New York and London offices. Thereafter,
 the plaintiff worked in the financial institutions group at Deutsche Bank in
 New York. 5. Subsequently, the plaintiff worked with TPG Capital India Private
 Limited for thirteen(13) years, where he spearheaded TPG's Growth and Rise
 investment activities in sectors such as consumer, technology, and financial
 services in India. 6. The plaintiff, for his expertise and contributions to the investment and
 private equity industry, was featured in The Economic Times "40 under 40" 7. Since August 2023, the plaintiff has been serving as a partner and head
 of private equity at KKR India Advisors Private Limited, a subsidiary of
 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (hereinafter the "KKR"). KKR, a
 prominent firm in investment management headquartered in the United
 States, provides financial services including alternative asset management,
 capital markets, and insurance solutions, with an extensive global presence
 through its international offices. The plaintiff's appointment to the partner's
 role was prominently covered by leading news outlets. 8. KKR, since its inception in 1976, has continuously and extensively
 utilized the trademarks "Kohlberg Kravis Roberts" and its acronym "KKR"
 (collectively referred to as "KKR Trademarks") KKR holds exclusive
 ownership and proprietary rights to these trademarks globally, including in
 India, where the trademarks are registered under Class 36, encompassing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH Signing Date:10.12.2024 15:39:12 CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 2 of 10 financial services such as investment and asset management, investment
 advisory, merchant banking, and capital markets services. 9. The defendant no.1 [John Doe/ Ashok Kumar] are unknown persons
 engaged in illegal, fraudulent and misleading activities inter-alia by
 impersonating the plaintiff. 10. The defendant no. 2 is an individual who through fraudulent means
 falsely represents himself as the plaintiff's assistant on messaging platforms
 such as Telegram and other similar Over-The-Top services (hereinafter the
 "Apps"), as well as social media platforms. The defendant no. 2 has created
 and operates multiple profiles under various phone numbers on these Apps
 and platforms and has established numerous groups impersonating the
 plaintiff. 11. The defendant no.3 [Telegram FZ LLC], a company having its office
 in UAE, is a cloud-based instant messaging and Voice-over-IP service that
 permits users to create profiles without verifying their identities, enabling the
 defendants no.1 and 2 to carry out acts of impersonation and fraud without
 disclosure. 12. In December 2023, the plaintiff became aware of several instances of
 fraudulent and unauthorized activities involving the misuse of his name,
 photograph, and reputation. At the time, the plaintiff discovered that various
 pages on social media platforms such as Facebook had emerged which were
 falsely and fraudulently using the plaintiff's name and photograph, purporting
 to offer financial services. It is averred that these actions of the defendants
 no.1 and 2 were carried out without the plaintiff's consent and constituted a
 misrepresentation of his identity. 13. Furthermore, several groups had been created on the messaging
 platform WhatsApp which were fraudulently using the name "KKR" and
 impersonating the plaintiff. The defendant no.1 and the defendant no.2, acting
 as the administrators of these WhatsApp groups, had unlawfully used the
 plaintiff's name as their username and his photograph as their display picture.
 It is stated that a deepfake video was being circulated within these groups,
 falsely depicting him providing investment advice and misleading individuals
 into believing that he endorsed the groups' activities. 14. In addition, an Instagram account had also been created at the time,
 fraudulently using the plaintiff's name and photograph, purporting to offer
 financial services to the public. 15. To address the impersonation and fraudulent activities carried out by
 the defendants no.1 and 2 on social media platforms and messaging services,
 the plaintiff, through his Advocates and KKR's legal representatives, on
 January 11, 2024, sent a notice to WhatsApp about two fraudulent WhatsApp
 groups impersonating the plaintiff and KKR, requesting their removal.
 Similar action was taken against two fraudulent Facebook pages, with notices
 sent to Meta Platforms Inc. However, only one of the Facebook pages was
 restricted, and no response was received from WhatsApp LLC. 16. A cease-and-desist notice dated 19th January, 2024, was sent to the
 defendant no.2 on WhatsApp and Telegram, to stop using the plaintiff's
 identity, likeness, and personality rights. Despite this, the defendant no.2
 continued to falsely represent himself as the plaintiff's assistant. 17. It is stated that the defendants' actions constitute a clear violation of his
 personality rights, including unauthorized use of his name, image, and
 likeness, as well as misrepresentation of an association with KKR. These acts Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH Signing Date:10.12.2024 15:39:12 CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 4 of 10 are not only infringing upon the plaintiff's rights but are also defrauding the
 public by falsely claiming to provide financial advice and investment services.
 The defendants' actions, carried out with mala fide intent, have caused
 reputational harm to the plaintiff and misled the public, necessitating legal
 intervention to restrain such activities. 18. Accordingly, the plaintiff filed the present suit seeking to restrain the
 defendants from carrying on the impersonation of the plaintiff, violating his
 personality rights and goodwill along with other ancillary reliefs.
 PROCEEDINGS IN THE SUIT 19. On 5th February, 2024, this court granted an ex-parte ad interim
 injunction in favour of the plaintiff restraining the defendants no. 1 and 2 from
 using the name, likeness, image, photos or any other personality rights of the
 plaintiff and/or claiming to be associated and/or connected with the plaintiff.
 On the same date, the defendant no.3 along with Meta Platforms Inc, was
 directed to remove/ block/ delete the accounts, profiles and groups created by/
 administered by the said defendants which were misusing the plaintiff's name
 and his association with KKR. 20. It was further directed that should other groups, channels, or profiles of
 a similar nature emerge on these platforms, the plaintiff shall have the liberty
 to provide the relevant details or URLs to the respective social media
 intermediaries, who shall then take action to remove or block access to such
 content in accordance with applicable law. Along with the aforesaid
 directions, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Union of
 India, and the Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of
 Communications, Union of India, were directed to issue necessary
 notifications or directions to all telecom and internet service providers as well Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH Signing Date:10.12.2024 15:39:12 CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 5 of 10 as domain name registrars in India, to permanently block, delete, or remove
 access to all telephone numbers, websites, domain names, and similar
 platforms identified as misusing the plaintiff's name and his association with
 KKR. 21. In compliance with the aforesaid directions, an affidavit of compliance
 was filed by the defendant no.3 stating that the defendant no.3 has blocked all
 the impersonating accounts mentioned in paragraphs 22.6 and 22.7 of the
 order dated 5th February, 2024. 22. On 5th April, 2024, the Joint Registrar noted that there was no service
 report qua defendant no.2. Additionally, it was noted that the Ministry of
 Electronics and Department of Telecommunications, to which directions were
 issued by this Court, had been served, however, there was no appearance on
 their behalf. 23. Vide Order dated 10th July, 2024 passed by this court, the plaintiff was
 granted four weeks to effect service on the defendant no.2 and file an affidavit
 of service confirming the same. 24. In compliance with the order dated 10th July, 2024, an affidavit of
 service dated 14th October, 2024 was filed by the plaintiff stating that the
 defendant no.2 was duly served with summons through Telegram and
 WhatsApp on 9th February, 2024. 25. On 26th November, 2024 in the order passed by the Joint Registrar, it
 was recorded that despite being served with summons the defendant no.2 did
 not enter an appearance and no written statement was filed on behalf of
 defendant no.2. Consequently, right of the defendant no.2 to file written
 statement was closed. 26. Till date, none has entered appearance on behalf of defendant no.2,
 hence, the defendant no.2 is proceeded against ex parte. 27. Now, the plaintiff seeks a decree against the defendant no.2 in terms of Order VIII Rule 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (hereinafter, ' CPC '). 28. I have heard the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties and
 also perused the material on record. ANALYSIS 29. The plaint has been duly verified and is also supported by the affidavit
 of the plaintiff. In view of the fact that the only contesting defendant is
 defendant no.2 and no written statement has been filed on behalf of the
 defendant no.2, all the averments made in the plaint have to be taken to be
 admitted. Further, since no affidavit of admission/denial has been filed on
 behalf of the defendant no.2 in respect of the documents filed with the plaint,
 in terms of Rule 3 of the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules 2018, the
 same are deemed to have been admitted. Therefore, in my opinion, this suit
 does not merit trial and the suit is capable of being decreed in terms of Order
 VIII Rule 10 of CPC . 30. Based on the discussion above, it is apparent that the defendants no.1
 and 2 are attempting to defraud the public by falsely claiming to offer
 investment advice and stock trading tips through messaging and/or social
 media platforms, which they claim are associated with the plaintiff and KKR. 31. The defendant no. 2, in particular, is falsely representing himself as the
 plaintiff's assistant on the messaging platform operated by the defendant no.3
 and encouraging the individuals to join the fraudulent WhatsApp groups.
 These actions are clear instances of unauthorized impersonation, fraud, and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH Signing Date:10.12.2024 15:39:12 CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 7 of 10 exploitation of the plaintiff's identity, causing significant harm to his
 reputation and misleading members of the public. 32. Furthermore, the defendant no.2 is dishonestly taking unfair advantage
 of the plaintiff's reputation and goodwill by impersonating him without any
 legitimate basis, thereby deceiving unwary consumers into believing an
 association with the plaintiff. 33. Clearly, the plaintiff's name, likeness, image, photographs, and
 personality rights have been used by the defendants no.1 and 2 with the clear
 intent to defraud and deceive the public. The unauthorized actions of the
 defendants no.1 and 2, including the creation and operation of fraudulent
 Telegram and WhatsApp groups, have exploited the plaintiff's personality
 rights in a manner that mislead consumers and members of the trade. These
 actions have given rise to substantial confusion, causing individuals to falsely
 believe that the Impugned Facebook Pages, WhatsApp Groups, Telegram
 Profile, Instagram Account, and other similar accounts or platforms are
 authorized, associated, or affiliated with the plaintiff and KKR. Such activities
 aim to misrepresent and confuse the public and constitute an infringement of
 the plaintiff's personality rights. 34. At this stage, it may be relevant to note that defendant no.2 did not
 appear before the Court, despite service of summons on 9th February, 2024
 via WhatsApp and Telegram. Further, no communication on behalf of the
 defendant no.2 has been placed on record in respect of the allegations of the
 plaintiff in this suit. Hence, the right to file written statement for the defendant
 was closed on 26th November, 2024. 35. Since the defendant no.2 has failed to take any requisite steps to contest
 the present suit, despite having suffered an ad-interim injunction order, it is
 evident that it has no defence to put forth on merits. RELIEF 36. In view of the foregoing analysis, a decree of permanent injunction is
 passed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants no. 1 and 2 in
 terms of prayer clauses 42 (a) and (b) of the plaint. 37. In respect of prayer clause 42 (c), the suit is decreed in terms of the
 following directions passed by this court in paragraph 24.2 of the order dated
 5th February, 2024: 38. The counsel for the plaintiff states that the prayer sought in the prayer
 clause 42 (f) has already been granted vide order dated 5th February, 2024.
 Accordingly, the plaintiff does not press for the relief sought in clause 42(f). 39. Counsel for the plaintiff does not press for the remaining reliefs in
 clauses 42 (e), (g), (h) and (i). 40. Let the decree sheet be drawn up. 41. All pending applications stand disposed of. AMIT BANSAL, J
 DECEMBER 5, 2024
 Vivek/-