SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The recipe to find India's next leader
DATE: 2024-03-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1brcg09/the_recipe_to_find_indias_next_leader/

--- POST TEXT ---

From looking at the current landscape, this is what it would take to find the next leader of India. 

If from BJP:

1. They would need to build mass appeal in the next 6 years
2. Tackle the internal politics of BJP after Modi steps down
3. They can pick 3 camps:
- Extremist 
- Moderate 
- Party Elites 
In the ensuing power struggle after Modi, their will be an Amit Shah camp, a Yogi camp and some moderate camp. They will all want to keep Modi in their corner because his endorsement might actually help them win. 

4. They would need to appease to the rabid communal Hindu 
5. They would need to appeal to the business community with more development, less corporate taxes
6. They would need to appeal to the insecure Indian diaspora abroad so they can chest thump among the whites (who don't even acknowledge their existence) 

To become a BJP leader, you don't actually need to do any progressive work. Jobs, economy, border security are secondary to religious fanaticism and foreign relations. Its all about fake perception building among Indians about how great India is, specially Hindu India. 

However, when you're trying to win grassroots support and mass appeal to become a PM candidate, you need to do actual work. Like Modi did, the perception about him in Gujarat was that he developed it, he made it into a business powerhouse and that is what propelled him to acceptance. So a new candidate will have to do this. 
People do care about results of their work at State and District levels.

Example: BJP replaced Vadodara MP Ranjanbhen Bhatt with Hemang Joshi for elections. This is because Ranjanbhen didn't do anything to progress Vadodara at all. She was woefully inadequate. This has resulted in infighting. So at state and district level work actually matters. 

That concludes our BJP next leader requirements. 

Now these are the requirements for the opposition party prospective leaders. 

1. Do the above when it comes to actual work and development of their constituencies. 

2. Find moderation that is palatable. The media is not your friend, you don't have enough money to pay them so find moderation that will not have you attacked

3. Constantly speak in favour of the Army, their rights, the border, the horrendous land grab of China under BJP

4. Do not attack Modi from the get go, do not try to win support of the few leftists who will agree with you. It won't work. Modi still has a lot of support. 

5. Push policies that are progressive, development related. Do not just push freebies and reservation. That public is not going to win you elections 

6. The Indian diaspora are some of the most insecure people in the world, so speak progressively about India and how you could make it better. Speak of the spirit of the Indian worker and how we can beat China (lol) and others. Even if its realistically impossible without actual leadership and about 15 to 20 years. 

7. Don't be constantly seen with the Gandhis. Indian whatsapp uncles will rail you with conspiracy theories. That you're a puppet. 

8. Don't actually be the puppet of the Gandhis

9. Have a squeaky clean image, even though BJP competitor may have comitted crime after crime. Because the media will again try to demonise you for even a tiny infringement. 

10. Don't speak about religion, temples, mosque etc. Just don't even go there. It's a dead case. 

11. This is probably the most important, become a radical within your own party, if Congress is seen as pro freebies. Become a job creator, go above and beyond in your constituency to promote business and development. Gain that mass acceptance 

12. Be ready to deal with fully bought media, ED, CBI, supreme court. You would need to out maneuver them at every point. You can't just be arrested and sit there looking innocent in jail. The Indian public doesn't respect weakness even if its unjust and completely made up against you, they just don't like candidates who can't beat all this injustice happening to them. Its like a game. 

So that concludes it. 

Potential list of candidates:

1. Yogi Adityanath
2. Amit Shah
3. Himanta Biswas
4. Rahul Gandhi
5. Priyanka Gandhi
6. S Jaishankar
7. Mamta Banerjee
8. Arvind Kejriwal
9. Naveen Patnaik
10. Shashi Tharoor
11. J Scindia
12. Nitin Gadkari
13. Nitish Kumar
14. MK Stalin

These are my thoughts:

Congress can say good bye to winning any major elections until Rahul Gandhi is in power. He is a nice guy and works hard and has some good grassroots support, so does his sister but that family has been tarnished beyond repair by the media. The public will never accept them.

On top of this, most of Congress's ideas are more reservation and freebies. I don't know any new radical ideas. Whenever I think of congress, I don't think progress. They offer moderate social fabric which is obviously welcome but that's not enough to win elections. 

If Shashi Tharoor didn't have a murdered wife under suspicious circumstances, I would say he could have made a good PM candidate but that's a long shot. 

Who do you think should start working as per the requirements list for the next 6 years to replace Modi?