Privacy safeguards are essential for digital identity projects, and blanket internet shutdowns violate human rights, the UN Secretary General said in a report on digital cooperation in September. Last June, a UN panel headed by Melinda Gates and Jack Ma laid out some objectives for digital cooperation on the international level. The High-level Panel on Digital Cooperation, appointed by the UN Secretary General, laid out broad goals to be achieved in the coming years. Here is a summary of each of those recommendations, and the gist of what should be done on that front, per a roadmap by the Secretary General released a year after the report was released, where he made the observations on digital identity projects and internet shutdowns.

The roadmap or the preceding UN report has been endorsed by Lacalle Pou , the President of Uruguay; Recep Tayyip Erdoğan , the President of Turkey; Vargas Maldonado , president of the Dominican Republic; President Rebelo de Sousa of Portugal; and President Egils Levits of Latvia. While India did not participate in discussions this year on some of the recommendations, the Indian Software Product Industry Roundtable (iSPIRT) participated in a roundtable discussion on Digital Public Goods.

What follows are recommendations from 2019, and the points underneath represent the roadmap outlined by the UN Secretary General in May.

Every adult should have internet access by 2030, with safe and sufficient access to banking and health services.

Digital public goods recommendation: There should be a “multi-stakeholder alliance, involving the UN” to share and pool digital public goods and data sets, in a privacy-respecting way.

The UN and national governments should work with civil society and the private sector to push for equal digital access to women and marginalised groups.

With a focus on gender, metrics on digital inclusiveness should be agreed on and urgently measured internationally.

“Help desks” should be formed at the regional and global levels to help countries understand digital issues.

The Secretary General should review applicability of existing international accords around human rights on emerging digital technologies , and social media companies should work with governments and civil society to respond effectively to human rights concerns.

Algorithmic AI systems should be designed to be explainable and accountable to ethical standards, and “Life and death decisions should not be delegated to machines.”

There should be a “Global Commitment on Digital Trust and Security to shape a shared vision, identify attributes of digital stability, elucidate and strengthen the implementation of norms for responsible uses of technology, and propose priorities for action”.

The panel recommended that the UN “develop updated mechanisms for global digital cooperation”, and that the Secretary General appoint a “Technology Envoy”. It added, “We support a multi-stakeholder “systems” approach for cooperation and regulation that is adaptive, agile, inclusive and fit for purpose for the fast-changing digital age.”

Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event