Recently, the Election Commission of India (ECI) issued a directive to all political parties, asking them to comply with the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) in the context of the upcoming general legislative assembly in Bihar and a few other constituencies. Among others, the Commission advised all the political parties against using AI tools to create deepfakes or spread misinformation, stressing the need to protect the integrity of the electoral process. While this directive calls for the precautionary measures that the political parties and leaders are supposed to take to ensure “integrity of the electoral process,” the directive doesn’t explain what kind of content will be taken down and its process.

According to the press release ( archive ) sent by ECI in June 2024, the social media platforms have to remove the fake content, including deepfakes, misinformation and synthetic content, within three hours of notifying the platforms. However, neither ECI’s Handbook on Media Matters nor the guidelines mentions how to identify and confirm whether the flagged content is fake news or not. The ECI has the guidance on how to identify fake news through Social Media Experts of the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC), a body constituted to certify the political advertisements.

However, authorities currently provide no clear definition or specification of what constitutes a deepfake and how to regulate it. While guidelines exist for paid news and related content, regulators still lack clarity and rules for deepfakes and generative AI (GenAI) content.

To illustrate the rising takedown orders, especially during the election period, we can look at the content take own orders during 2019’s general elections, social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, and WhatsApp, removed more than 900 posts. While Facebook took down 650 posts, Twitter deleted 220 tweets, and ShareChat removed 31 posts. Additionally, five YouTube videos were taken down, and three WhatsApp accounts were disabled. It is important to note that in the same year, an industry body, the Internet and Mobile Association of India, submitted a Voluntary Code of Ethics, which ECI refers to in its documentation for media regulation and governance during the elections.

Similarly, the Ministry of Home Affairs’ Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) has issued 426 content takedown notices to online platforms since it became responsible for flagging unlawful online activity in March 2024. In total, the I4C asked platforms to remove over 1.10 lakh URLs and accounts from their services.

The highest number of notices, 78, were sent to WhatsApp, directing the removal of 83,673 accounts or groups. This figure closely resembles the 83,668 WhatsApp account takedowns that the Ministry previously linked to digital arrest scams in Parliament. The second-largest number of notices, 73, were sent to Instagram, seeking the removal of 22,150 URLs and accounts associated with deepfakes, investment scams, fake stock trading platforms, obscene content, misinformation, impersonation, and job scams.

The Government of India disclosed these figures in its submission to the Karnataka High Court during the case filed by X (formerly Twitter), which challenged content takedown orders issued under Section 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, a provision that strips platforms of immunity if they fail to comply with government orders.

Since Social Media, by definition, falls under the category of electronic media, the ECI mandates that all political advertisements on social media require proper pre-certification from the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) before being posted on social media. They also need to provide the cost of advertisements, expenditure spent, etc.

However, the major drawback is how loosely the advertisement is referred to and interpreted.  For example, the guidelines note that “Any political content in the form of messages/comments/photos/videos uploaded on ‘blogs/self accounts’/websites/social media platforms will not be treated as political advertisement,” irrespective of who uploads the content.

The Returning Officer who assumes the Social Media Expert position in the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) is required to issue pre-certification for all political advertisements on social media before they are posted. The RO is also made aware of the various social media handles and the “roles and responsibilities of the CEO, DEO, Social Media Nodal Officer, etc” with an emphasis on the e standard operating procedure for pre-poll and Polling Day Social Media updates and voter awareness. For context, Article 324 empowers the ECI to run elections in India and monitor the internet for fake news and misinformation as part of MCC.

According to the presentation, “Theme 17 – Social Media & Fake News,” there are two aims:

The social media expert for the District or State MCMC should preferably be a government officer not below the rank of SDM with at least five years of experience in an IT or social media department. If a private individual is appointed, they must hold a master’s degree in IT, have at least 10 years of relevant government or social media experience, and possess proven neutrality and professional integrity.

As laid out in the Handbook, the duties of the Social Media Expert are:

The ECI has outlined the following specific indicators for detecting suspected cases of paid news:

The ECI follows an SOP to manage fake news and misinformation. When officials find fake news, the ECI’s Media Division reports the violation to social media platforms for action, including takedowns. ECI Social Media Nodal Officers escalate violations to platforms for removal and further action.

It is important to note that the latest 2024 Handbook on Media Matters, especially designed for CEOs and DEOs, doesn’t mention anything about how to identify and detect deepfakes.

During the MediaNama event, Deepfakes and Democracy (2024) , several experts explained the ways to detect deepfakes using technology.

The detailed advisory that was referred in the documentation is not available on the ECI’s website is not accessible.

In 2019, the Internet and Mobile Association Of India, a not-for-profit industry body, sent a letter to ECI drafted ( archive ) by it with a code of ethics drafted to increase transparency in political advertisements. The guidelines state that the Voluntary Code of Ethics, which came into effect on March 20, 2019, are applicable during all the general and state assembly elections. X (formerly Twitter), Google and its products, Facebook, WhatsApp, Share Chat, and Koo are signatories of VCE.

Aims and Functions:

Under these guidelines, the social media platforms have to create a high-priority dedicated grievance redressal channel for taking the “expeditious action” on the cases reported by the ECI or MCMC. They should also ensure that the Media Certification and Monitoring Committees (MCMC) pre-certify them and that they include pre-existing labels and disclosures.

Addressing these points, after a couple of weeks of IAMI notifying these rules, several social media companies had earlier reached out to the industry body, raising several concerns.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event