(Judgment was delivered by T.S.SIVAGNANAM,J)

http://www.judis.nic.in 2 These appeals are filed by the assessee questioning the common order

 passed by in W.P.No.27524 of 2018 etc. cases dated 26.10.2018. 2. In this judgment, the parties are referred to as the assessee and

 the Revenue. 3. The assessee filed the said batch of writ petitions challenging the

 common Order-in-Original dated 29.2.2016 whereby the demand raised on

 the assessee for service tax was confirmed under Rule 14 of the CENVAT

 Credit Rules, 2004 (hereinafter called the Rules) read with Section 11A of the

 Central Excise Act, 1944 (hereinafter called the Act). In the said common

 Order-in-Original, there was a demand for interest as applicable under Rule

 14 of the Rules read with Section 11AB / 11AA of the Act and equal penalty

 was also imposed as that of the central excise duty under Rule 15 of the

 Rules. 4. As against the said common Order-in-Original dated 29.2.2016, the

 assessee preferred appeals before the Commissioner of Central Excise

 (Appeals-II), Chennai [for short, the CCE(A)]. Admittedly, the appeals were

 filed beyond the period of limitation and there was a delay of 121 days in

 filing the appeals. The law relating to the power of the CCE(A) to condone the

 delay having been settled in various decisions, the CCE(A), vide common

 order dated 21.9.2016, held that he has no power to condone the delay in

 filing the appeals. http://www.judis.nic.in 3 5. The assessee carried the matter on appeal to the Customs, Excise

 and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, South Zonal Bench, Chennai (for short,

 the Tribunal), canvassing the merits of the matter as to how the demand

 made in the show cause notices containing various dates starting from

 31.1.2008, as affirmed in the said common Order-in-Original dated

 29.2.2016, is not sustainable. Further, the assessee also referred to the

 affidavit filed by their counsel before the CCE(A) explaining the delay.

 However, the Tribunal, vide common order dated 29.6.2017, dismissed the

 appeals as there is no provision either under Section 35 of the Act or

 anywhere in the Act to allow the assessee to seek any further time to present

 an appeal before the CCE(A) or for that matter to the latter to allow any

 further condonation beyond the period of 90 days. 6. As against the said common order dated 29.6.2017, the assessee

 filed appeals before the Division Bench of this Court in CMA.Nos.1691 to

 1700 of 2018, in which, the assessee raised five substantial questions of law

 for consideration, one of them being that the Tribunal ought to have

 appreciated the difference between the provisions of Sections 35(1) and Section 35B(3) of the Act and come to the conclusion that the CCE(A) does

 not have powers to condone the delay beyond 30 days, as the same is

 contrary to the provisions of Section 35 of the Act. The assessee further

 contended that the Tribunal was not correct in coming to the conclusion that

 there is no power for the CCE(A) to condone the delay, when Section 35(1) http://www.judis.nic.in 4 of the Act does not prescribe a mandatory time limit for filing the appeals. 7. The Division Bench of this Court, by a common judgment dated

 07.8.2018, dismissed the appeals filed by the assessee by relying upon the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Singh Enterprises Vs.

 CCE, Jamshedpur [reported in (2008) 221 ELT 163]. The Division Bench

 also referred to another judgment of this Court in the case of

 R.Gowrishankar Vs. CST-I (Appeals), Chennai [W.A.No.589 of 2016

 dated 13.6.2016]. The Division Bench of this Court, in paragraph 17 of the

 said common judgment dated 07.8.2018, observed that though the reasons

 assigned (for belated filing of the appeals) may appear to be sufficient, the

 Statute does not provide condonation beyond the period provided therefor

 and that if the prayer made by the assessee is accepted, it would amount to

 adding words to the Enactment. 8. Having failed before the Division Bench on the ground of belated

 filing of appeals and also on the ground that there is no power for the Court

 to condone the delay, the assessee filed writ petitions challenging the

 common Order-in-Original dated 29.2.2016. 9. The main contention raised by the assessee before the learned

 Single Judge was that Rule 15 of the Rules deals with situations warranting

 penalty for irregular availment of CENVAT credit availed in respect of inputs,

http://www.judis.nic.in 5 capital goods and input services by both the manufacturer and the service

 provider, that invocation of proper Sub-Rule of the said Rule is mandatory in

 order to impose penalty on a manufacturer or a service provider, that the

 assessee being a manufacturer, the only applicable Sub-Rule upto 31.3.2010

 is Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 15 of the Rules, under which, penalty cannot exceed

 Rs.2,000/- and that there is no separate provision for cases involving fraud,

 suppression, etc. 10. It was further contended by the assessee before the learned Single

 Judge that for the period upto 31.3.2010, there is no provision to impose

 equal amount of penalty on a manufacturer for wrongly availing any credit on

 input services irrespective of the issue as to whether any fraud or

 suppression is involved or not. Challenging imposition of equal amount of

 penalty under Rule 15 of the Rules, the assessee contended that the first

 respondent clearly exceeded in jurisdiction vested upon him under Rule 15(3)

 of the Rules as it stood then by imposing equal penalty for the period from

 01.3.2008 to 31.3.2010, during which period, he cannot at all impose equal

 penalty on a manufacturer, who has wrongly availed any credit on input

 services and that the penalty that could be imposed under Rule 15(3) of the

 Rules could be only Rs.2,000/-. 11. With regard to equal amount of penalty imposed for the period

 from 01.4.2010 to 31.1.2015, before the learned Single Judge, the assessee

 stated that in none of of the show cause notices, the first respondent alleged

http://www.judis.nic.in 6 fraud, willful misstatement, collusion or suppression of facts, that the show

 cause notices are periodical in nature and that there is no case for imposition

 of equal amount of penalty, since Rule 15(2) of the Rules specifically states

 that such penalty can be imposed only in cases where fraud, willful

 misstatement, collusion or suppression of facts with an intention to evade

 payment of duty is made out. 12. Before the learned Single Judge, the assessee referred to various

 decisions on the point with regard to availment of GTA credit and stated that

 there was a dispute on the legal issue and that there were several judgments

 and that ultimately, the matter stood settled by the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in the case of CCE Vs. Ultratech Cement Limited [reported in 2018-TIOL-42-SC-CX]. Therefore, it was submitted that the

 question of suppression can never be invoked, as the issue was continuously

 being litigated for several years. 13. Before the learned Single Judge, with regard to maintainability of

 the writ petitions challenging the said common Order-in-Original dated

 29.2.2016, in spite of the assessee having lost upto this Court on the ground

 of limitation in challenging the orders, reliance was placed on the decision of

 the Hon'ble Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Electronic Corporation of India Limited Vs. Union of India [reported

 in (2018) 361 ELT 22] and the decision of the Hon'ble Full Bench of the

 High Court of Gujarat in the case of Panoli Intermediate (India) Private

http://www.judis.nic.in 7 Limited [reported in (2015) 326 ELT 532]. 1. 14. The learned Single Judge, who heard the writ petitions, at the

 admission stage, was not inclined to entertain the same on the ground that

 in both the decisions relied upon by the assessee namely Electronic

 Corporation of India Limited and in the case of Panoli Intermediate

 (India) Private Limited, the appeals filed by the assessees therein were

 only upto the Tribunal and they were dismissed as time barred. However, in

 the case of the assessee herein, the appeals filed before the Division Bench

 of this Court were dismissed confirming the orders of the First and Second

 Appellate Authorities and this is a distinguishing feature in the case of the

 assessee herein. After noting the decisions in the case of Electronic

 Corporation of India Limited and in the case of Panoli Intermediate

 (India) Private Limited, the learned Single Judge observed that even going

 by the said decisions, the assessee has to satisfy that their case would fall

 under any of the following categories namely the Adjudicating Authority lacks

 jurisdiction or acted in excess of jurisdiction or in violation of principles of

 natural justice. Further, the learned Single Judge noted that the assessee

 had challenged the common order of the Adjudicating Authority on merits

 and not on any of the grounds indicated by the decisions in the case of

 Electronic Corporation of India Limited and in the case of Panoli

 Intermediate (India) Private Limited. 15. With regard to the power to impose equal penalty for the period

http://www.judis.nic.in 8 from March 2008 to March 2010, the learned Single Judge was of the view

 that it is a wrong quoting of the provision by the Adjudicating Authority and

 that as long as he is competent to impose penalty, the decisions in the case

 of Electronic Corporation of India Limited and in the case of Panoli

 Intermediate (India) Private Limited could not be made applicable to the

 case of the assessee herein. Further the learned Single Judge observed that

 the Division Bench of this Court already dismissed the appeals arising out of

 the orders passed by the Adjudicating Authority though on the ground of

 limitation and that therefore, the assessee was not entitled to file writ

 petitions as a matter of right, as the jurisdiction vested on this Court under Article 226 of The Constitution of India is, undoubtedly a discretionary one,

 not necessarily to be exercised even assuming that the assessee has made

 out a case. The learned Single Judge further observed that it is not as if the

 assessee is without any remedy and that it is always open to the assessee to

 challenge the order passed by the Division Bench before the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court. For such reasons, the writ petitions were dismissed as not

 maintainable vide common order dated 26.10.2018. The said common order

 is impugned in these appeals. 16. We have heard Mr.G.Natarajan, learned counsel for the assessee

 and Mr.T.Pramod Kumar Chopda, learned Senior Standing Counsel accepting

 notice for the first respondent and Mr.S.R.Sundar, learned Senior Standing

 Counsel accepting notice for the second respondent.

http://www.judis.nic.in 9 17. The first issue to be considered is as to whether the assessee was

 entitled to file writ petitions challenging the said common Order-in-Original

 dated 29.2.2016 after having lost before this Court in CMA.Nos.1691 to

 1700 of 2018 dated 07.8.2018, by which, the appeals filed by the

 assessee were dismissed confirming the orders passed by the Tribunal, which

 upheld the decision of the CCE(Appeals) rejecting the appeals filed by the

 assessee as barred by limitation. 18. We need not labour much to take a decision on this question, as

 an identical issue was considered by the Hon'ble Full Bench of the Andhra

 Pradesh High Court in the case of Electronic Corporation of India Limited

 wherein a reference was made by a Division Bench to the Full Bench raising a

 question as to whether the decisions of the Division Bench in the case of

 M/s.Resolute Electronics Private Limited Vs. Union of India [reported

 in (2015) 319 ELT 51 (AP)] and in the case of Star Enterprises Vs.

 Joint Commissioner, Guntur [reported in (2016) 41 STR 20 (AP)]

 require reconsideration. By these decisions, the Division Bench of the Andhra

 Pradesh High Court held that a writ petition under Article 226 of The

 Constitution of India would not lie against an Order-in-Original passed under

 the Act once the statutory remedy of appeal against the said order stood

 foreclosed by the law of limitation. 19. The facts in the case on hand are identical to the facts of the

 cases, which were the subject matter of reference before the Hon'ble Full

http://www.judis.nic.in 10 Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Ultimately, the Hon'ble Full Bench

 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the decision in the case of Electronic

 Corporation of India Limited, after taking into consideration the decision

 of the Hon'ble Full Bench decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of

 Panoli Intermediate (India) Private Limited, answered the three

 questions framed for consideration in the following manner : (3) On the third question, the answer is in
 affirmative, but with the clarification that
 (A) the petition under Article 226 of the
 Constitution can be preferred for challenging the
 order passed by the original adjudicating authority in
 following circumstances that
 (A.1) The authority has passed the order
 without jurisdiction and by assuming jurisdiction
 which there exist none, or
 (A.2) Has exercised the power in excess of the
 jurisdiction and by overstepping or crossing the limits
 of jurisdiction, or
 (A.3) Has acted in flagrant disregard to law or

http://www.judis.nic.in 11 Rules or procedure or acted in violation of principles
 of natural justice where no procedure is specified. (B) Resultantly, there is failure of justice or it
 has resulted into gross injustice.” 20. In the decision in the case of Electronic Corporation of India

 Limited, the first question was answered against the assessee thereby

 holding that the period of limitation provided under Section 35 of the Act can

 be extended only upto 30 days as provided by the Proviso and it cannot be

 extended beyond 90 days. The second question was also answered against

 the assessee holding that a writ petition is not maintainable for the purpose

 of condonation of delay in filing the appeal. 21. The third question, which assumes importance for the case on

 hand, is when the statutory remedy or appeal under Section 35 of the Act is

 barred by law of limitation, whether, in a writ petition under Article 226 of

 The Constitution of India, the order passed by the Original Adjudicating

 Authority could be challenged on merits. This question was answered in the

 affirmative, but with a clarification. The Hon'ble Full Bench of the Andhra

 Pradesh High Court issued three pointers while answering the said question

 in the affirmative. In other words, the Hon'ble Full Bench held that a writ

 petition under Article 226 can be preferred for challenging the order of the

 Adjudicating Authority under three circumstances, the first of which being

 that the Authority, who passed the order, did so without jurisdiction or

 assumed jurisdiction. Secondly, he exercised powers in excess of jurisdiction

 and by overstepping or crossing the limits of jurisdiction. Thirdly, he acted in

http://www.judis.nic.in 12 flagrant disregard to the Rules or the procedure or acted in violation of the

 principles of natural justice where no procedure is prescribed. Resultantly,

 there is a failure of justice or it has resulted into gross injustice. 22. Thus, we are required to see as to whether the assessee has

 brought their case within anyone or more of the circumstances as pointed by

 the Hon'ble Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of

 Electronic Corporation of India Limited. Identical view was taken by the

 Hon'ble Full Bench of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Panoli

 Intermediate (India) Private Limited. 23. Admittedly, the assessee, while responding to the show cause

 notices, which we find as periodical notices, did not specifically canvass the

 issue, which they raised in the writ petitions namely challenging the

 jurisdiction of the Authority to impose equal penalty for the period from

 March 2008 to March 2010. Secondly, the assessee did not raise the

 contention, which was raised in the writ petitions stating that equal penalty

 could not have been imposed for the period from 01.4.2010 to 31.1.2015

 since there is no allegation in the show cause notices that there is any willful

 misstatement, fraud, collusion, etc with an intention to evade payment of

 duty. We find that while replying to the show cause notices, the assessee

 canvassed the merits of the matter stating that the demand itself is not

 maintainable. Consequently, they stated that imposition of penalty does not

 arise. http://www.judis.nic.in 13 24. In our considered view, the issue, which has been raised by the

 assessee before us and in the writ petitions, touches upon the jurisdiction of

 the Adjudicating Authority to impose equal penalty for the period upto

 31.3.2010 and whether circumstances warrant imposition of equal penalty

 post 31.3.2010. We are not in agreement with the observation made by the

 learned Single Judge that a wrong provision was quoted by the Authority. We

 have perused the show cause notices and we find that in the show cause

 notices, there is a reference to Section 11AC of the Act and Rule 15 of the

 Rules. The Adjudicating Authority, while issuing the show cause notices, did

 not indicate as to under which Sub-Rule, he proposes to impose penalty, but

 merely mentioned Rule 15 of the Rules. 25. The respective learned Senior Standing Counsel are in a way right

 in pointing out that there is a reference to Section 11AC of the Act. However,

 the question of jurisdiction of the Authority to impose equal penalty requires

 to be considered, as Rule 15 of the Rules, as it then stood, provided

 imposition of penalty only upto an amount not exceeding Rs.2,000/-. 26. In this regard, it is relevant to quote Rule 15(3) of the Rules,

 which was applicable for the period from 01.3.2008 to 31.3.2010. It reads as

 hereunder: statement, collusion or suppression of facts, or
 contravention of any of the provisions of the Excise
 Act or the Rules made thereunder with intention to
 evade payment of duty, then, the manufacturer shall
 also be liable to pay penalty in terms of the
 provisions of Section 11AC of the Excise Act. (3) If any person takes CENVAT credit in
 respect of input services wrongly or in contravention
 of any of the provisions of these Rules in respect of
 any input service, then, such person shall be liable to
 a penalty which may extend to an amount not
 exceeding two thousand rupees. (4) In a case, where the CENVAT credit in
 respect of input services has been taken or utilized
 wrongly by reason of fraud, collusion, willful mis-
 statement, suppression of facts, or contravention of
 any of the provisions of the Finance Act or of the
 Rules made thereunder with intention to evade
 payment of service tax, then, the provider of output
 service shall also be liable to pay penalty in terms of
 the provisions of Section 78 of the Finance Act. (5) Any order under Sub-Rule (1), Sub-Rule

http://www.judis.nic.in 15 (2), Sub-Rule (3) or Sub-Rule (4) shall be issued by
 the Central Excise Officer following the principles of
 natural justice. Rule 15A. General penalty — Whoever
 contravenes the provisions of these Rules, for which,
 no penalty has been provided in the Rules, he shall
 be liable to a penalty which may extend to five
 thousand rupees.” 27. For the period from 01.4.2010, Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 15 of the

 Rules is amended, which reads as follows : 28. Rule 15(3) of the Rules, which was in vogue till 31.3.2010, states

 that if any person takes CENVAT credit in respect of input services wrongly or

 in contravention of any of the provisions of the Rules in respect of any input

 service, then, such person shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to

 an amount not exceeding Rs.2,000/-. After amendment with effect from

 01.4.2010, the said Rule contemplates levy of equal penalty where the

 CENVAT credit in respect of input or capital goods or input services has been

 taken or utilized wrongly by reason of fraud, collusion, willful misstatement

 or suppression of facts, etc., with intent to evade payment of service tax. 29. Thus, for the period from 01.4.2010, mens rea requires to be

http://www.judis.nic.in 17 established to impose equal penalty. In our considered view, the issues as to

 whether equal penalty was imposable or in other words, whether the

 Adjudicating Authority had jurisdiction to impose equal penalty for the period

 prior to 31.3.2010 and as to whether facts warranted imposition of equal

 penalty for the period from 01.4.2010 are definitely issues touching upon the

 jurisdiction of the Authority to take a decision in the matter. Therefore, we

 are fully convinced that the assessee has made out a case for interference of

 the said common Order-in-Original in exercise of the powers under Article

 226 of The Constitution of India, as we are prima facie satisfied that the

 Adjudicating Authority assumed jurisdiction, which has been shown to be not

 in existence for the period upto 31.3.2010. 30. The second aspect is for the period from 01.4.2010 and the issue

 would be as to whether the Adjudicating Authority exceeded in his

 jurisdiction or crossed the limits of jurisdiction or acted in violation of the

 principles of natural justice in not examining as to whether the conduct of the

 assessee attracted the provisions of Rule 15(3) of the Rules and as to

 whether there was any mens rea on the part of the assessee. Thus, the

 issues raised by the assessee being issues touching upon the jurisdiction of

 the Authority, we are of the considered view that the writ petitions can be

 entertained. 31. However, we are conscious of the fact that these issues were not

 specifically canvassed by the assessee at the time they submitted their reply

http://www.judis.nic.in 18 to the show cause notices from the year 2009. Nevertheless, these being

 issues relating to jurisdiction, we are of the view that the assessee should

 not be foreclosed from raising such issues, so that the first respondent can

 adjudicate upon such issues. For such a reason, we are inclined to

 remand the matters to the Adjudicating Authority for a fresh decision

 only in respect of imposition of penalty. 32. For the above reasons, the writ appeals are allowed. Consequently,

 the writ petitions are allowed and the common Order-in-Original dated

 29.2.2016 is set aside so far as imposition of equal penalty for the periods

 both from March 2008 to March 2010 and from 01.4.2010 to 31.1.2015. The

 matters are remanded to the first respondent/Adjudicating Authority to take

 a fresh decision. The assessee is granted 15 days' time from the date of

 receipt of a copy of this judgment to file their objections to the show cause

 notices raising the contentions with regard to jurisdiction of the Adjudicating

 Authority to impose equal penalty. On receipt of the reply, the Adjudicating

 Authority shall afford an opportunity of personal hearing to the authorized

 representative of the assessee and take a fresh decision on merits and in

 accordance with law with regard to imposition of penalty. We make it clear

 that since we have remanded the matters to the Adjudicating Authority to

 take a fresh decision with regard to imposition of penalty for both the

 periods, the Adjudicating Authority shall take a decision after hearing the

 assessee uninfluenced by any of the observations contained in this judgment.

 No costs. Consequently, the connected CMPs are closed.

http://www.judis.nic.in 19 22.1.2019
 Speaking Order
 Index : Yes
 Internet : Yes

 To 1.The Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise (Now the Assistant
 Commissioner of CT & CE), Tambaram Division, Plot No.40, Ranga Colony,
 Rajakilapakkam. 2.The Commissioner of Central Taxes & Central Excise, Chennai Outer
 Commissionerate, Newry Towers, No.2054, I Block, II Avenue, 12 th
 Main Road, Anna Nagar, Chennai-40. RS

http://www.judis.nic.in 20 T.S.SIVAGNANAM,J
 AND
 N.SATHISH KUMAR,J

 RS

 WA.No.92 of 2019 etc.
 cases

 22.1.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in