Last week, sources informed MediaNama that e-pharmacy platform Pillup will be winding down its operations by November 25th. In conversation with MediaNama, Pillup’s Co-founder Ankur Solanki clarified that the plan isn’t to shut down—and that regulatory clarity is needed for businesses like Pillup to remain viable in India.

Pillup provides consumers with pre-sorted sachets of their medical prescriptions. The individual sachets delivered to consumers contain all the tablets they need to take for that day—an alternative to the medicine boxes often used to segregate and store daily tablets. The company is headquartered in Delhi, and officially launched in October 2022.

“We are doing our best on what we can do for the customers [safety], but we’re open to suggestions from the regulatory body [on more things we should be doing],” said Solanki, speaking to us on Friday. “Our dialogue needs to be open. Right now, everything is in silos.”

Understanding the context : Solanki’s comments come in the backdrop of a sector that remains under-regulated in India. Multiple e-pharmacies offering different services—including medicine deliveries—have cropped up of late. However, some argue that these online platforms violate critical provisions of India’s drug regulations , like the Drugs and Cosmetics Act of 1940, and the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945. Legal challenges against platforms allegedly operating without the right licences are ongoing at the Delhi High Court, with the court issuing an interim stay order on their operations—multiple businesses like Tata 1mg, Pharmeasy, and Apollo have reportedly been served notices by drugs controllers under the order.

The Indian government has also dragged its feet on bringing regulations for the sector for years now. Earlier this year, the Court directed it to finalise its stance on the rules, with the government reportedly holding fresh consultations on the matter. The Indian government sought more time to do so, the case will be heard next on November 16th.

Businesses like Pillup have similarly come under the scanner. Its main competitor Pharmallama (which offers a near-identical service and was successfully invested in on Sharktank India) was served a notice in March by the offline pharmacy group, the South Chemist and Druggist Association. The notice was sent to the investors too. The overall claim: that the business model violates the 1940 Act, and the 1945 Rules, and that no law permitted this sort of “repackaging of medicines”. The body alleged that supplying medicines without their original packaging would render them ‘misbranded’, ‘spurious’, or ‘adulterated’ under the 1940 Act, and that they were removing information that should be disclosed to patients. Removing the packaging could also lead to contamination, harming their health.

“PillUp has all the required licenses under Forms 20, 20b, 20f, 20g, 21, and 21b [of India’s drugs regulations ],” Solanki said. “PillUp is [also] not an e-commerce website. We don’t do online orders [of any drugs], but we do medicine delivery [based on prescriptions].”

In this interview, Solanki explains how Pillup’s business works, his response to offline pharmacy industry groups, and the kinds of clarifications the company seeks from the government.

MediaNama : We got a screenshot from a source which basically indicated to Pillup consumers that the company is closing its doors by November 25th. Is that the case? If so, why is Pillup taking this step?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : Our plan is not to shut down. But, because of the market situation, we are running out of funds and we are not seeing any investment in this space because it is a funding winter, first of all.

Plus, the healthcare sector in India is not doing too well when it comes to VC funding. [For example] when we talk about Pharmeasy [a major e-pharmacy], it’s not doing too good. They’re the biggest player in the market and their valuation has dropped significantly. They are struggling to pay out their loans. So, it sends a very negative sentiment about the market is doing or how the healthcare industry will do in general. Then we have different players who have raised money but they have been unable to build a successful business which can be profitable and can give returns.

Besides that, there are regulatory challenges. So we have been in touch with the Indian Pharmaceutical Association on different [regulatory] pointers. So, the laws [governing pharmacies and drugs] are back from 1945. Those don’t have anything mentioned related to the new technology, Internet, nothing is being covered, right? We are waiting for approval on the latest e-pharmacy laws, but that has been stuck [too].

So, all these points are creating issues for the VCs or the investors to put money in, because right now it’s a grey area. There are no laws saying it can be done, and there are no laws which say it can’t be done. But [the bottom line is], you don’t want to get pestered by the regulatory bodies that, ‘we interpreted the law in this way and hence you are liable for X, Y, Z reason’, and then have to go to court and fight and get a stay order like others have done.

MediaNama : Could you specify in what ways people perceive your business as violative of these drug laws? What parts of it are actually the parts under contention? Is it the fact that you’re delivering medicines from an online platform? Is it the fact that you’re giving these sachets out?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : Both the delivery and the sachets are in the grey area. We even reached out to the CDSCO [Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation] for clarification on those laws, and if in the upcoming versions [of the drugs and pharmacies laws] they want to add any more parts concerning these [aspects].

[Also] This technology is being implemented and adopted all over the world, in the US , Canada , Australia . Even if I talk about Asia, the Singapore government has adopted this technology because [in my opinion] they saw that the overall healthcare cost of my country is going down because my adherence level [as a citizen] is going up. So in Singapore, you get the option from the government only to take [medicines] in sachet form.

But, I understand the point of the regulators as well, that those countries don’t have the problem of fake medicines entering into the ecosystem. So, when we go into the sachet form [in India], there is a problem of [determining] whether this is the original or fake medicine [being supplied to consumers]. Whatever technology we can apply to help track the whole system is not sufficient till the point the regulators—instead of focusing on us who are trying to build innovative products—focus on making sure there are no fake medicines entering our ecosystem. That is the biggest problem .

MediaNama : So, a couple of months ago, we reported on how offline pharmacist groups met with the Karnataka government, and pointed out that your competitors, specifically Pharmallama, are violating the law by selling medicines via sachets [note: the same groups had sent a legal notice to Pharmallama as well earlier this year]. In your context in Delhi, have you ever faced similar actions or complaints from the Health Ministry or from drug controllers on your operations? How did you respond to them? How did you adapt?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : Only one of the inspections has been done [by a regulator unspecified in the interview], and we have cleared it with flying colours. The only objection we faced [that] was we were not maintaining the records of narcotics drugs in a specific notebook. So, that was the only compliance issue that we faced when the inspection happened.

[On the Pharmallama reports] In my honest opinion, that is because the local pharmacies are facing a big threat—innovation. So, when they’re competing with online pharmacies, the product is essentially the same. But, when we came into the system, we changed the user comfort [level]. We improve their adherence [with taking medicines]. The pharma lobby, the local pharmacies, are facing a threat because they can’t copy our product. We have spent a lot of time innovating with machine optimisation, [and] customising to the Indian audience. Because the local pharmacies cannot compete on this, they want us to shut down.

I would say to a certain extent they have been successful because in all of the conversations that we were having with the VCs, they have said that they are seeing a lot of regulatory issues in this space. Our competitors are getting sued by these local bodies. But, as a country, if you want to succeed, we need to support innovation. I think that’s where the regulatory bodies have to come in and work with us rather than stop us, [just] because we might be taking away some of the jobs of the local pharmacies.

MediaNama : But, some of these bodies are arguing that this concept of taking out a medicine from its capsule and then putting it in a sachet, can have adverse health effects. They’re protected in that packaging for a reason, it’s done to protect consumers in that sense. What about that, given your business model?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : [With respect to the global context] In the US you get [some] medicines in loose form. [Despite that] Obviously, there are drugs that need to be protected because they might get affected by moisture and air. Hence, we also don’t want to change the efficacy of the medicine. So, as a pharmacy, we do the cutouts. We don’t tamper with the original packing of the medicine. We just give you a small cutout [of the larger strip of tablets, in that the medicine is still packaged]. But, still if they [the lobbies] see this as also a problem, then you know that it is less about giving the cutout. It is more to defend their business and hamper the innovation process.

We are only removing two parts of the process [for consumers]. [First] Is cross-verifying which medicines they have to take because people get confused. The second part is [the process of] taking out the whole medicine box and taking the medicines out of those sachets individually. Here, you get all the medicines you need to take, take them out, and consume them with water.

MediaNama : On the fake medicines angle, how are you as a company checking for the quality of medicines you send out?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : There are multiple levels of technology. One is, we have given our customers a trackability option. So, [they have visibility] from the manufacturer to the distributor, from the distributor to when it enters into the Pillup ecosystem. [They can see] When do we buy it, from which vendor did we buy it, there is complete transparency. The date, time, batch number, everything is there, even [information on] when we used that particular medicine for an order, and when it was delivered to the customer.

We are giving complete transparency in our system because we felt that that was lacking in India. The governments have taken up initiatives by putting barcodes and QR codes on the back of the medicine boxes, but that has yet to be adopted widely by the country and is facing technical challenges. I think they are taking a step in the right direction, but the implementation is very slow and the cooperation by the manufacturer has been quite slow.

Second, the whole process [of preparing prescriptions] done by us is done by a registered pharmacist. Everything [within that] is done by machine, nothing is done by hand. So, the process is also completely automated. Besides that, we [Pillup and its competitors ] are using technology such as image verification systems, to make sure that people take the right medicine. Although the error rate of the machine is, I would say, less than 1%, you still don’t want any mistake to happen, and hence we do double verification. So, we [also] do a manual check with the pharmacist whose main job is to make sure that the right medicines are packed in the right sachets, and then the consumer can take the right medicines at the right time.

MediaNama : So, given you’re slowing down operations, how are your customers impacted?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : As it’s a grey [regulatory] area, we don’t want to go all out on advertisements, so customer education is a problem. That being said, we have amazing customer retention, over 90% aggregate month-over-month. And when we sent out this message to our customers [that we are shutting down], several of our customers have shown interest and are in talks to invest in our company because they really like the product. They see a lot of value in this and they want to keep this alive. So, we get a lot of positive messages from our customers that we have made their life easy, and have significantly impacted their loved ones’ lives. Some people were struggling because they were living away from their families in different cities. Now they are much more secure in their head knowing that, ‘hey, my mum is taking medicine the way it should be taken’.

MediaNama: What is the rough size of your customer base right now?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : It would be in the early thousands.

MediaNama : What changes do you think we need in the regulatory environment to enable a business like yours to work then?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : Obviously, there needs to be regulation out there so that the customers feel secure, say [rules ensuring that] we are following good manufacturing practices and other things. If our customers feel secure and everyone feels secure and the audits are being done because there are guidelines being followed, then it’s a win-win situation.

But, because right now there are no regulations out there, everything is a grey area. We are doing our best on what we can do for the customers, but we’re open to suggestions from the regulatory body [on more things we should be doing]. Our dialogue needs to be open. Right now, everything is in silos. There is no communication or dialogue happening with the CDSCO or the drug department or with the companies that are trying to innovate. Unless you try to involve every stakeholder, all the policies will be made with the limited knowledge that all the people in power have. They need to incorporate people who are tech-savvy or people who are trying to innovate products. They need to bring these people in.

MediaNama : On a final note, the Indian government was reportedly holding consultations recently on these draft e-pharmacy rules that have been pending—this came after a Delhi High Court direction to speed up the process. Have you participated in any of those discussions?

Ankur Solanki, Pillup : We have not been involved in the drafting of the new e-pharmacy law. We have been in touch with CDSCO. We have sent different requests in different forms, asking for clarification on the laws, and if there is anything missing, what can be done. But we were unable to get a satisfactory reply.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event