While considering an application for regular bail in a crime

alleging rape of a minor, this Court expressed its anguish at the

alarming rise in the number of sexual offences committed on school

children. The distress escalated on noticing that, in many instances,

the perpetrators themselves were students - either minors or those

who had just crossed the threshold age of majority. 2. The present bail application relates to an incident of

aggravated penetrative sexual assault by the petitioner on a victim

aged 15 who became pregnant. The victim affirmed in her statement

to the police that she was in a relationship with the petitioner and that

they even intend on getting married. Although attempts were made by

the relatives to terminate the pregnancy, the victim insisted on

continuing with it. Petitioner's family expressed their inclination to

accept the victim and the child. However, the fact remains that the girl B.A. No.3273/22 -:4:- is the victim of a sexual crime, and the young boy is an alleged sexual

offender. Unmindful of the consequences, they indulged in a sexual

act which can result in a minimum imprisonment of 20 years for the

accused. 3. The alarming rise in the number of sexual offences committed

against school children requires introspection. Many a time, the

perpetrators are youngsters. Young children indulge in such offending acts

for manifold reasons varying from pre-planned crimes to natural

inquisitiveness of adolescence and some arising out of amorous

relationships. At times the sexual acts are committed with the belief that

the consent of both partners is sufficient to absolve them from the crime.

By the time they realize their assumptions to be mistaken notions, it is too

late in the day, and the situation becomes destructive, leading to very

inconvenient results and beyond any remedial measures. 4. With the enactment of statutes like the Protection of Children from

Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'the POCSO Act '), and the

amendments to the Indian Penal Code 1860, laws relating to sexual

offences have undergone drastic changes, and the young seem to be

unaware of the enormity of the consequences of sexual acts. The crimes

committed by the adolescent or the youths expose them to consequences

that can snuff out their 'life', which could otherwise be resplendent. Taking

cue from the adage "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure", this B.A. No.3273/22 -:5:- Court felt it essential to invoke its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

Constitution for issuing directions, despite the application being one for

anticipatory bail under section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,

1973 (for short 'the Cr.P.C ). 5. On 08.06.2022, this Court suo moto impleaded the State of

Kerala, the Central Board of Secondary Education (for short 'the CBSE')

and the Kerala State Legal Services Authority (for short 'the KELSA') and

declared its intention to invoke the jurisdiction under Article 226 to issue

directions for paving the way for better awareness of the statutes relating

to sexual offences in the schools in Kerala. 6. After this Court proposed to issue directions, two persons came

forward requesting to implead in the proceedings. An NGO called 'Dil Se',

whose trustee is Dr.Janaki Sankaran and a law student, Ms. Parvathy

Nambiar, thus requested permission to put forward their suggestions.

Having regard to the objective behind the proposal of this Court, their

impleading petitions were allowed. 7. I heard Adv. Parvathy Menon, on behalf of KELSA, Adv.

Nirmal S., on behalf of the CBSE, Smt.M.K.Pushpalatha, learned Public

Prosecutor/Government Pleader, Sri. Nireesh Mathew, on behalf of the

petitioner in the bail application, Adv. Reshmi K.V., on behalf of the NGO

'Dil Se', and Ms. Parvathy Nambiar, the student from Hidyatullah National

Law University, as party-in-person, B.A. No.3273/22 -:6:- 8. Adv. Parvathy Menon submitted that KELSA has already issued a

booklet of relevant laws, which includes lessons on POCSO, which are

supplied to students of various schools and that they are conducting quiz

competitions for students above 11 years. It was also pointed out that

under the aegis of KELSA, a committee has been constituted for

formulating guidelines and suggestions for providing awareness among

adolescents and children. On behalf of KELSA, it was submitted that they

are willing to undertake regular awareness classes for the school students

of Kerala as they have felt the need to impart awareness amongst the

children on various aspects of POCSO and other statutes. Smt. Parvathy

Menon also submitted that the concepts of 'good touch' and 'bad touch'

needs better elucidation to enable the children to distinguish between the

two. Further, children ought to be warned of online abuse, online bullying,

online grooming and other modes adopted by the perpetrators of sexual

crimes and develop a healthy cyber culture, which is essential in the

present-day context. Suffice to say, KELSA, from their experience,

submitted that, it was imperative to create proper awareness amongst the

children and that the present system is insufficient and deficient. 9. Adv. Reshmi K.V., the learned counsel appearing on behalf of 'Dil

Se', submitted that they are willing to undertake regular classes for the

students. 10. Ms. Parvathy Nambiar, a promising youngster in the legal arena, B.A. No.3273/22 -:7:- submitted that her research and survey revealed ignorance of law as a

major reason for the rise in the number of cases under the POCSO Act .

She also pointed out that lack of awareness and proper orientation

amongst the teachers are also hurdles in effective communication with the

students. 11. Adv. Nirmal S., submitted that the CBSE had identified the need

for imparting awareness on the provisions of POCSO and other similar

statutes and had even issued a Circular in 2014 as well as in 2017,

making it mandatory for every school to initiate steps to instil awareness

on POCSO Act . As per the circular, failure to conduct sessions on Act is a

ground for disaffiliation of the school itself. They had also made it

mandatory to form a School Management Committee, which could play a

vital role in guiding the school. 12. Smt.M.K.Pushpalatha, the learned Public

Prosecutor/Government Pleader, submitted that a Circular was issued by

the Government on 18.03.2015 stating that the schools must conduct

awareness classes and should also discuss at the PTA meetings the

provisions of POCSO Act and provide drop boxes and therefore the

Government has already initiated appropriate steps. 13. Though none of the Counsel argued on the legality of the

proposal of the Court, it is essential to dwell, in brief, on the power of this

Court to issue directions under Article 226 , even while considering an B.A. No.3273/22 -:8:- application for bail. 14. Article 226 is couched in a comprehensive phraseology

conferring an ex facie wide power upon the High Courts to reach injustice

wherever it is found. The Constitution designedly used a wide language,

and its exercise is not subject to any limitation other than territorial and

other self-imposed restrictions. In the decision in Lt.Col.Khajoor Singh v.

Union of India and Another (AIR 1961 SC 532), the Supreme Court held

that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is of

the widest amplitude and it is not confined only to issuing of writs in the

nature of habeas corpus etc., for it can also issue directions or orders

against any person or authority, including in appropriate cases, any

Government. 15. Apart from the above, the High Court, as a court of plenary

jurisdiction, has the inherent power to do complete justice. The power

under Article 226 can also be utilised to effectuate the law and to ensure

that several authorities and organs of the State act in accordance with the

law. Reference to the decision in Union of India and Another v.

Kirloskar Pneumatic Co. Ltd.. [(1996) 4 SCC 453] is relevant in this

context. The inherent power vested in this Court can therefore be

exercised in cases where the Court is satisfied with the necessity to

exercise such power. Considering the lack of appropriate measures to

impart awareness on sexual crimes in the schools in Kerala, this Court is B.A. No.3273/22 -:9:- of the opinion that certain directions are required to be issued. Hence this

Court is of the view that an instance has arisen to invoke its extraordinary

jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 16. The POCSO Act was enacted with the specific purpose of

curbing the evil of child sexual abuse. Every step in the judicial process

under the Act is envisaged to be child friendly. The underlying feature of

the Act is designed not merely for the post-crime stage of reporting and

punishing the offender but also to curb the occurrence of sexual offences

against children. If the purpose of the Act has to be achieved, the statute

itself must act as a deterrent which can be achieved to a large extent by

awareness. 17. Article 39 (f) of the Constitution of India provides that the State

shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the children are

given opportunities and facilities to develop in a healthy manner and in

conditions of freedom and dignity and that childhood and youth are

protected against exploitation and against moral and material

abandonment. The observations of the Supreme Court in Alakh Alok

Srivastava v. Union of India and Others [(2018) 17 SCC 291] and in

Eera through Dr.Manjula Krippendorf v. State (NCT of Delhi) and

Another [(2017) 15 SCC 133] are relevant in this context. 18. If the purpose of the POCSO Act and the amendments brought

to the IPC are to be achieved, children must be made aware of the B.A. No.3273/22 -:10:- different aspects of sexual crimes and the modes to identify and avert

such instances. The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education

Act, 2009 , apart from Article 21A of the Constitution of India, mandates

that the State and its instrumentalities are bound to provide opportunities

for the children to be educated. 19. The procedure to impart awareness on sexual crimes, presently

in vogue, has not yielded the desired results as it falls woefully short of the

requirements. Even the terms "good touch" and "bad touch", which are

informed as being taught in some schools, are noticed to be too wide and

ambiguous. These wide terms may require better categorisation like "safe

touch", "unsafe touch", "unwanted touch", etc., not only to identify abuses

but also to avoid false or wrong accusations. The attempt of this Court in

this proceeding is to instil in the mind of the Government as well as the

school authorities the need to evolve a more functional and authoritative

procedure to create awareness of not just the provisions of POCSO Act but also to evolve a methodology to impart, in a systematic manner, the ill-

effects of sexual offences. This must include methods for identifying

instances of sexual offences, means to prevent the commission of such

crimes and other allied issues. One of the prime objectives is to impel the

school authorities to educate the children and empower them by imparting

awareness as a mandatory process. 20. The CBSE has as rightly pointed out by the learned Standing B.A. No.3273/22 -:11:- Counsel, issued specific guidelines which are certainly beneficial if

properly implemented. Despite the State Government having issued a

Circular in 2015, the same is insufficient. All these steps taken, as

mentioned earlier, have not achieved their desired results. 21. Adhering to the objectives of statutes relating to sexual offences

and abstaining from sexual crimes is a necessity in a civilized society. As

children grow up to be future citizens of the country, this civic sense, if

imbibed by them during their school years, will hold them in good stead

throughout their life. This civic sense can enlighten the mind of the child in

his formative years. No doubt. an enlightened mind dispels darkness. The

observations of the Supreme Court in M.C.Mehta v. State of T.N. and

Others [(1996) 6 SCC 756] that the "Child is the father of man, to

enable fathering of a valiant and vibrant man, the child must be groomed

well in the formative years of his life. He must receive education, acquire

knowledge of man and materials and blossom in such an atmosphere that

on reaching age, he is found to be a man with a mission, a man who

matters so far as the society is concerned" is apt in this context. 22. Issuing circulars which remain hidden to many will not serve any

purpose nor achieve the desired results. Awareness of statutory provisions

relating to sexual offences and other allied matters is to be made part of

the curriculum, to be taught at regular intervals as a measure of B.A. No.3273/22 -:12:- prevention-based orientation. Continuous or repeated awareness sessions

about the pernicious effects of sexual offences alone may achieve the

desired objective of a drastic reduction in the commission of such crimes.

It is the need of society that a child is provided with an atmosphere to grow

and blossom. However, a deviation or an aberration at a young age has a

tendency to snuff out his or her future. The awareness of the

consequences of sexual offences and their ramifications, if imparted timely

in the proper manner, can pave the way to prevent the commission of

such offences. 23. In State of Tamil Nadu and Others v. K. Shyam Sunder and

Others [(2011) 8 SCC 737], the Supreme Court observed that the right of

a child under Article 21A should not be restricted only to free and

compulsory education but should be extended to have the right to quality

education without any discrimination on the ground of economic, social

and cultural background. 24. Education is intended to empower and liberate. Empowering

each child to prevent or report abuses and liberating each child from

conservative and narrow-minded thoughts are also part of education. The

voice of the victim of sexual abuse should not be suppressed, and it is

only through education that the victim can be empowered to speak out.

Similarly, it is education on the punishments for sexual abuse that can

prevent or deter possible abusers from indulging in such heinous acts. B.A. No.3273/22 -:13:- Thus the concept of quality education can have meaning only if orientation

on sexual offences and the means to prevent them are imparted at the

school level itself. A prevention-oriented programme on sexual abuse is

therefore a facet of the right to education contemplated under Article 21A of the Constitution of India. 25. In this context, it is relevant to refer to the system prevailing in

many States in the United States of America. In the year 2011, in the State

of Illinois, legislation was passed that mandates all schools to implement a

prevention-oriented child sexual abuse programme. The programme

involves the teaching of students from pre-kindergarten to the twelfth

grades age-appropriate techniques to identify and recognise child sexual

abuse. The programme also includes the requirement to teach the school

personnel, including the teachers, all about child sexual abuse and also

the parents and guardians about the warning signs of child sexual abuse,

needed assistance or resource information to support sexually abused

children and their families. The legislation is called 'Erins Law' named after

Erin Merryn - a child abuse survivor. 26. The ''Erin's Law' has now been passed as legislation in 37

States and is pending consideration in 13 other States in the United States

of America. The fact that most States are incorporating programmes to

prevent sexual abuse as part of a mandatory requirement indicates the

success of such programmes. Erin's Law can be used as a guideline by B.A. No.3273/22 -:14:- the State of Kerala and the CBSE while including the programme as part

of the curriculum. 27. These are matters on which the Government, the CBSE and

other educational institutions must deliberate upon and evolve appropriate

methodology. 28. In view of the above, in the exercise of the powers of this Court

under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the following directions are

issued; (i) The State of Kerala and the CBSE shall issue necessary and

appropriate orders making it mandatory for every School under its control

and within the territory of Kerala to include a prevention-oriented

programme on sexual abuse as a mandatory part of the curriculum. (ii) A Committee of Experts shall be formed by the State of Kerala

and the CBSE within an outer time limit of two months from today to

identify the mode and methodology for imparting an age-appropriate

prevention-oriented programme on sexual abuse. (iii) The Committee of Experts shall submit its recommendations

within an outer period of six months from its formation, and appropriate

orders shall thereafter be issued by the State of Kerala and the CBSE in

tune with the recommendation so as to implement the programme from

the academic year 2023-24. (iv) The Secretary/ Secretary General of the respondents and all B.A. No.3273/22 -:15:- other Officers concerned under the respective respondents shall be bound

to comply with the above directions. The order dated 08.06.2022 granting bail to the petitioner is made

absolute and this bail application is disposed of. BECHU KURIAN THOMAS
 JUDGE
vps