A Delhi court ordered ed-tech platform Unacademy, to stop using Asian News International’s (ANI) copyrighted content on its YouTube channel ‘Pathfinder by Unacademy’. ANI is seeking a permanent injunction along with damages of Rs. 5 lakh for copyright infringement, piracy, plagiarism and unjust enrichment, according to a report by Bar and Bench.

Hemani Malhotra, a District Judge at the Patiala House Courts, restrained ‘Pathfinder by Unacademy’ from using ANI’s “original videos or any copyrighted work or content” for “posting, publishing, uploading, distributing, republishing on any platform, or using in any manner.” The court also directed Google to take down, block and disable access to the copyright infringing content published by the ed-tech company on its YouTube channel.

“It is clearly exploiting the original works of the Plaintiff (ANI) for its commercial gain,” read the suit filed by ANI. The news organisation argues that it invests a lot of resources like camerapersons, journalists and other equipment to produce news stories. ANI claims that the effort involved gives it the exclusive right to commercially benefit from the videos.

It referred to the following videos in its lawsuit against Unacademy:

When Unacademy received copyright strikes for these videos, it filed corresponding counter-strikes by using “fair use” as its defence. The ed-tech company said that the alleged Youtube videos included “original narration, analysis and critique of topical news…to discuss, analyse and critique news reports while providing educational content for students preparing for the UPSC exams”.

The court noted that Unacademy has apologised to ANI for using the original videos and agreed not to use their copyrighted works in the future. However, the ed-tech company went ahead and filed the counter-strikes, leading to the current lawsuit.

ANI continues to fight against unauthorised copying of its original videos by targeting multiple Youtubers demanding hefty amounts ranging upto Rs. 40 Lakh.

However, on the other hand, the so-called ‘unauthorised’ usage of content may qualify as fair use under The Copyright Act, 1957, depending on the specific use case.

Section 52 of the Copyright Act defines the fair use exceptions to copyright infringement based on the purpose and the intention. For instance, these include private or personal use, research, review or criticism, and the reporting of current events.

Despite the constitutional right of fair use, ANI’s strategic deployment of copyright strikes is making life harder for YouTube content creators, especially those who rely on YouTube to earn their living.

A news channel’s editor who requested anonymity, told MediaNama that the license fee ANI demands from YouTubers is a “type of blackmailing”. For context, if a channel receives three copyright strikes , then it can be permanently removed from YouTube.

In another case, ANI has sued OpenAI for infringing their copyright content to access and train their Large Language Models (LLMs).

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event