This first appeal is at the instance of an applicant under Sections 24 / 25 of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and is directed against the judgment and

decree dated 18th March, 2002 passed by the Additional District Judge, Hooghly,

in Matrimonial Suit No.424 of 1995, thereby dismissing the said application by

rejecting the prayer of the appellant for declaration that the alleged marriage

between the parties was null and void. Being dissatisfied, the appellant has come up with this first appeal.

 The appellant filed a suit under Sections 24 / 25 of the Special Marriage

Act in the Court of the District Judge, Hooghly which was subsequently

transferred to the Court of the Additional District Judge, Hooghly. The case made

out by the appellant may be summed up thus: The suit was contested by the respondent by filing written statement

thereby denying the material allegations made in the plaint and the defence of

the respondent may be summarised thus: In course of such business, intimacy grew between the appellant and the

 respondent and the appellant proposed to the respondent and her mother

 that he would marry the respondent and the respondent went to the

 appellant's father as per request of the appellant. All the members of the

 appellant's family knew that the appellant would marry the respondent.

 (2) As per proposal and arrangement made by the appellant, on June 21,

 1995, the respondent's mother and the elder sister went to Inchhura

 Kalibari at about 6:30 p.m. and found the appellant and his sister, Minu
 Banerjee, were present there. In Inchhura Kalibari, the priest, viz. Sri

 Sasanka Sekhar Bandopadhyay had conducted the marriage between the

 appellant and the respondent on that date and all the rites and ceremonies

 for Hindu marriage had been performed. After the marriage, the appellant

 took the respondent to his rented room at Kharaji Para, Panduah and the

 appellant and the respondent lived there as husband and wife for about

 two months. (3) Thereafter, as per proposal of the appellant, the marriage between the

 appellant and the respondent was registered on 23rd August, 1995.

 (4) It was absolutely false that by practising fraud the signature of the

 appellant was taken on some blank papers. At the time of hearing, the appellant, his father and his sister deposed in

support of the appellant while the respondent, her mother, her elder sister and

one Ramesh Tewari, a Marriage Registration Officer, deposed in opposing the

prayer of the appellant. As indicated earlier, the learned Trial Judge by the judgment and decree

impugned herein dismissed the suit. Being dissatisfied, the petitioner has come up with the present appeal.

 At time of hearing of this appeal, the appellant filed an application under Order 41 Rule 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure for taking into consideration the
 deposition of the respondent and her mother given earlier in the proceedings

under Sections 498A and 406 of the Indian Penal Code filed against the appellant

as additional evidence. The object of the appellant was to show the contradiction

in the deposition. In the earlier deposition in the criminal proceedings, both of

them stated that the mother of the respondent was not present at the time of the

alleged ceremonial marriage at the Kali Temple whereas in this proceeding they

stated that the mother of the respondent was present. The respondent in her

evidence stated in this proceeding that a notice in terms of Special Marriage Act was given whereas in the earlier proceedings she stated that no such notice was

given. After hearing the learned advocates for the parties, we were of the view

that such documents should be admitted as additional evidence and we allowed

the certified copy of such deposition to be marked as additional evidence. We also

gave opportunity to the respondent to file evidence by way of affidavit to explain

such inconsistency in their deposition. Pursuant to such liberty, two

supplementary affidavits have been filed, one by the respondent and the other by

her mother. According to the mother of the respondent, although she in the

criminal proceedings stated that she was present at the time of marriage in the

Kali Temple, it was wrongly recorded that in the said proceedings that her answer

was in negative. The respondent in her affidavit, tried to explain her statement

made in the deposition given in the criminal proceedings to the effect that in the

Kali Temple the appellant only put vermilion in her forehead but no other

ceremonies were held by saying that she was put a question in cross-examination

whether there was "sindur daan" which she answered in affirmative and in
 addition to that she was also asked whether there was any social function which

she answered in negative. She stated that she was never asked any question

whether there was "saptapadi" or "hom" or not and as such she had no occasion

to give answer and whenever she wanted to say anything more, the learned

counsel for the defence scolded her and asked her confine her answer to the

question put to her. We have taken into consideration those depositions marked as additional

exhibits in this appeal and have also taken into consideration the explanation

given by the respondent and her mother regarding her statement in the earlier

proceedings for the purpose of disposal of this appeal. Before entering into the merit of this appeal, we should not lose sight of

the fact that the scope of investigation of the disputes in this proceeding is very

limited. It appears from the certificate of marriage of the parties that the same

was registered in terms of Section 15 of the Special Marriage Act recording a

previous marriage alleged to have been solemnized under Hindu rites and

ceremonies and thus, in accordance with Section 18 of the Act, the parties

should be deemed to have been married under the Act. According to the

appellant, there was no earlier marriage whatsoever in any form and that his

signature was taken by practising fraud and coercion and such signatures have

been utilized to represent the application for the alleged registration under Section 15 of the Act. According to him, without going through the contents of

the application, he put his signature due to coercion inflicted upon him. The
 respondent, on the other hand, has denied such allegations and has contended

that there was a marriage earlier held between the parties in a Kali temple which

was duly consummated, the parties lived as husband and wife in a rented house

and that the appellant consciously applied for registration of such marriage. As mentioned earlier, the appellant has subsequently filed the present

proceedings under Sections 24 / 25 of the Special Marriage Act for declaration

that the marriage should be declared as a nullity. As provided in sub-section (2) of Section 24 of the Act, the benefit of sub-

section (1) of that Section would not be available to any marriage deemed to be

solemnized under the Act within the meaning of Section 18 , but the registration

of any such marriage under Chapter III may be declared to be of no effect if the

registration was in contravention of any of the conditions specified in clauses (a)

to (e) of Section 15 . Therefore, in this appeal we cannot declare the so-called marriage to be

nullity but our scrutiny will be limited to only to the investigation whether any of

the conditions specified in clauses (a) to (e) of Section 15 of the Act has been

infringed and if we find that any of such conditions has been contravened we can

simply declare that the registration was of no effect. Therefore, the question is whether condition (a) to Section 15 of the Act

was satisfied. According to that condition, an earlier ceremony of marriage
 should be performed between the parties and that they had been living together

as husband and wife ever since till the registration. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties and after going through

the materials on record including the additional evidence taken in this Court by

way of production of the certified copies of the deposition of the respondent and

her mother in the earlier criminal proceedings and also their explanation to the

alleged inconsistent stance taken in the earlier proceedings given by way of

affidavit before this Court, we find that the mother of the respondent has

altogether denied that she made any statement in the criminal proceedings that

she was not present at the time of marriage. According to her, such statement

was wrongly recorded and she did not know about her such statement. In the

subsequent civil proceedings she claimed to have been present at the time of the

alleged marriage on June 21, 1995. The respondent herself in her evidence before

the Criminal Court never alleged that her mother was present at the time of

marriage in the Kali Temple and she admitted in her cross-examination that

apart from putting vermilion, no other ceremony was performed. She has tried to

get out of such statement by way of her explanation given in this appeal by

stating that no question was put to her about performance of "hom" or

"saptapadi" and as such, she had no occasion to make such statement. In our

opinion, the explanations of both the respondent and her mother are on the face

of it a lame explanation. They never applied before the Criminal Court for

correction of wrong recordings of their deposition and no reasonable person
 would believe such explanation to be genuine. It is, therefore, apparent that the

story of presence of the mother of the respondent at the time of alleged marriage

at Kali Temple is a concocted one. Similarly, the essentials of a valid Hindu

marriage have not been performed as would appear from the deposition of the

respondent in the criminal proceedings and it is apparent that she is now trying

to improve her version. Even no independent person of the locality has come

forward to depose in order to support the statement of the respondent that after

the alleged marriage, the parties resided together as husband and wife in a

rented house mentioned in the written statement nor was Sunil Saha examined

to prove the allegation that they were residing in his house as a tenant after the

marriage. Even, although the defence is that the registration took place in the

office of the D.W.-4 near Chinsurah bus stand, the marriage registration officer,

the D.W.-4, in whose office the marriage was registered under the Special

Marriage Act , himself admitted that his office was situated at Chandannagore

where the registration had taken place. We, thus, find substance in the

contention of the appellant that his signature was taken at the bus stand of

Chinsurah by force and such paper was used for the purpose of showing

registration of a so-called earlier marriage at the office of the D.W.-4 at

Chandannagore. Even the respondent or her mother or her sister did not

mention in their evidence that the marriage was registered at the office of D.W.-4

at Chandannagore or that from Chinsurah, they went to Chandannagore but

such fact came out in the evidence of D.W.-4. The Court, at this stage, can take

judicial notice of the fact that Chandannagore is the next railway station after
 Chinsurah. It is apparent that the D.W.-4 did not care to verify properly whether

the requirements of conditions mentioned in clauses (a) to (e) of Section 15 of the

Act were satisfied. It further appears from the evidence adduced by the respondent that after

taking solemn affirmation she stated that she was aged 24 years on the date of

deposition i.e. 24th May, 2001 whereas the alleged marriage was held on 21st

June, 1995 and the same was registered on 23rd August, 1995. As pointed out by

a Division Bench of this Court in the case of Monoranjan Das Gupta vs. Suchitra

Ganguly and others reported in 1988(1) CHN 219, the name, parentage,

residence, age and profession of a witness stated at the beginning of the

deposition after taking solemn affirmation form part of his evidence and those

statements are binding upon him. However, if those are recorded before taking

solemn affirmation, those will not form part of evidence. Therefore, according to

her own statement made in this case after taking solemn affirmation, she was

aged 18 years at the time of registration of the alleged marriage. According to

condition (d) mentioned in Section 15 of the Act, the parties should complete the

age of twenty-one years at the time of registration of the marriage in terms of Section 15 . Therefore, the requirement of condition (d) of Section 15 was also

contravened. In this case, the registration being done in contravention of clauses (a)

and (d) of Section 15 , the Court should have simply declared that the registration

was of no effect as provided in Section 24(2) of the Act. Once it is held that the registration was of no effect being in

contravention of clauses (a) and (d) of section 15 , the Matrimonial Court

constituted under the provisions of the Special Marriage Act dealing with an

application under Section 24 of the Act loses its jurisdiction to grant any relief

even under Section 25 of the Act for the simple reason no "deemed marriage" The judgement and the decree passed by the learned Trial Judge are thus

set aside and we pass a declaration mentioned in the preceding paragraph of this

judgement. The appeal is allowed to the extent indicated above. In the facts and

circumstances, there will be, however, no order as to costs. (Bhaskar Bhattacharya, J.)

 I agree. (Rudrendra Nath Banerjee, J.)