2. By means of this application, the Petitioner seeks the
 indulgence of this Court for a direction to the Opposite
 Parties to register the FIR and to proceed with the
 investigation as expeditiously as possible. 3. The background facts of the case as mentioned in
 the application of the Petitioner is that on 28.04.2023 he
 received a WhatsApp message from an anonymous number
 +1(657)215-8839 identifying herself as Krisha and offered
 him an online job which was said to be simple and easy to
 help Youtubers and shopping sites, Beauty and fashion and
 interesting places to visit and his work was suggested to
 "subscribe and like" to earn daily income. The Petitioner
admitted the said proposal which later on involved
receiving and transferring funds from his accounts,
promising daily commissions. According to the Petitioner
the receptionist Sita and Instructor Shyla giving their
identity as employees of UNOCOIN gave him incentives
for the YouTube tasks and then engaged him in the job
with commissions to be paid daily. They took Rs.1000/-
from his account and then at different transactions
deposited different amount of money in his SBI Account
No.35711307072 and Union Bank Account
No.779802120001656 and his job was to transfer the
money to different accounts provided by them. It is further
alleged in the application that the Petitioner continued
doing the online job for the company up to 23.05.2023 and
receiving commission up to Rs.1000/- a day maximum
depending upon the transactions. Later he got information
from the Bank that his bank accounts have been freezed by
the Cyber Police of Thiruvananthapuram on the alleged
fraud committed in the account to the tune of Rs.12800/-
(Rupees Twelve Thousand Eight Hundred Only). When he
informed the company and office bearers, they
immediately deleted their telegram and Whatsapp accounts
which were having communication with the Petitioner and Page 2 of 4 the Petitioner believed that he was cheated by the cyber
criminals in the name of online job and dragged into the
problem. 4. Pursuant to the direction issued by this Court, the
learned counsel for the State has placed the written
instructions of the IIC Cyber Crime & EO P.S., Balasore
wherein the IIC has informed that pursuant to the
complaint received from the Petitioner alleging an online
jobs scam and unauthorized use of his bank accounts for
fraudulent transaction, the matter was entered into the P.S.
Station Diary vide Diary No.05 of 2025 dated 11.04.2025
and an inquiry was initiated. In course of the inquiry, it was
found that the amount of Rs.1,47,599/- (Rupees One Lakh
Forty-Seven Thousand Five Hundred Ninety-Nine Only)
has been received dishonestly in the Petitioner's bank
account in Layer-1 and Rs.2000/- in Layer-2. According to
the inquiry, there was neither any job offer letter issued in
favour of the Petitioner nor any document regarding
obtaining of job is exhibited. 5. Keeping in view the aforesaid result of the inquiry,
this Court is not inclined to pass any further direction. 6. A copy of this report be supplied to the learned
 counsel for the Petitioner. In the event, the Petitioner so
 desires, may approach the appropriate Jurisdictional
 Magistrate by way of a complaint for redressal. 7. Accordingly, the CRLMP stands disposed of. (Chittaranjan Dash)
 Judge

 Sarbani Page 4 of 4 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SARBANI DASH Designation: Junior Stenographer Reason: Authentication Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 19-Aug-2025 16:27:32