The Global Fintech Fest in Mumbai presented an opportunity for many players within the field of fintech, payments and digital financial services to launch new products. Here is a list of the products launched :

Bharat BillPay (BBPS)

NPCI launched Business-to-Business (B2B) payments and collections on Bharat BillPay services. The new service caters to businesses and aims to standardise and automate invoice payment processes. It will offer services such as business onboarding, the ability to search and add businesses, purchase order (PO) creation, invoice management, automated reminders, guaranteed settlement, financing, AR (Accounts Receivable) and AP (Accounts Payable) dashboard, and online dispute resolution have been built into the platform.

UPI Circle (Delegate Payments)

It also introduced the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) Circle, in collaboration with Google Pay, which allows a user to delegate payments to a secondary user. The primary user links with its trusted secondary users on the UPI App for either partial or full delegation of payments. In full delegation, the primary user can authorise a trusted secondary user to initiate and complete UPI transactions as per defined spend limits. In partial delegation, the primary user can authorize the initiation of payment requests from secondary users. The primary user can then complete the UPI transaction with a UPI PIN. While a primary user can delegate to up to five secondary users, a secondary user can accept delegation from only one primary user. It allows a maximum monthly limit of Rs 15,000 per delegation and a maximum per transaction limit of Rs 5000.

UPI Vouchers or eRupi

Merchants can offer customers prepaid vouchers, called eRupi, that can be tied to their mobile number, allowing them to make payments through any UPI app without linking their bank account. NPCI has collaborated with the Department of Financial Services for this service. Google has stated that it can be used by existing UPI users, as well as government and corporate organizations.

Clickpay QR scan for Bill Payments

Created in collaboration with NPCI’s Bharat Billpay, the ClickPayQR feature on Google Pay will allow users to pay bills by scanning a QR code. The user can access the latest bill automatically, after scanning a customized QR code generated by the biller.

Prepaid utilities payment

Also in partnership with NPCI Bharat Billpay, this feature supports recurring payments. Users can link their utility accounts (like energy accounts) and pay their utilities through the UPI.

Tap & Pay with RuPay Cards

Google Pay also worked with the NPCI to introduce Tap & Pay payments for RuPay cards, which will allow RuPay card users to tap and pay via Google Pay. Google clarified that card information (like the 16-digit card number) will not be stored with Google Pay.

Autopay for UPI Lite

Google introduced Autopay for UPI Lite, its payment mechanism for small purchases and transfers (up to Rs 500). Autopay will allow automatic top-ups for a user’s UPI Lite account when the balance falls below a certain amount.

Technology company Zoho announced its foray into the fintech sector with the launch of Zoho Payments, a B2B payments solution powered by the Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS) of NPCI Bharat BillPay Limited (NBBL). Zoho Payments is registered as a Bharat Bill Payment Operating Unit (BBPOU) with the NBBL as a payment aggregator. Thus, it can onboard buyers and sellers on the BBPS network.

Zoho will accept payments via UPI NEFT, RTGS, IMPS, cards and net banking. BBPS standardises invoice presentment and payments, and provides multiple payment modes, instant payment confirmations, invoice financing, and a unified platform for invoice transmission and reconciliation. It will also automatically update relevant information with the corresponding invoice. Businesses can also make bulk payments for multiple bills.

Zoho Payments is also integrated with its accounting software, Zoho Books. Businesses will be able to exchange invoices and transactions with their buyers and sellers through the BBPS network. The invoices sent through Zoho Books on the BBPS platform will automatically be recorded in the buyer’s enterprise resource planning (ERP) or accounting app and bills sent by their seller will be recorded automatically in Zoho Books. Businesses can also obtain financing for their unpaid invoices from lenders on the Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS) platform through the BBPS network.

Visa also collaborated with various fintech companies and banks to provide a slate of payment products.

PayU, in partnership with all major card networks, announced the launch of its advanced ‘Push Provisioning’ platform. This solution facilitates the sharing of card tokens between merchants and banks via a single platform.

PhonePe Payment Gateway also announced the launch of PhonePe PG Bolt, which will allow payments through UPI Lite, Wallets, and Electronic Gift Vouchers without requiring a PIN and redirecting to external payment platforms. Beauty and lifestyle retailer, Nykaa has adopted this feature.

Payments company, Razorpay , shared a suite of products at GFF.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event