Hi, I got a fake job interview letter. with the demand for rs.10500 as a security and refundable which is pasted as below: kindly take strict action on it as soon as possible. and the letter has come through email sponsored by hcl. so I request to take action against this issue and please help me in getting back my money from them HCL Technologies Limited Add # Manyata Embassy Business Park – SEZ Block C4 (ELM), 1st Floor of Wing A & Wing B Outer Ring Road, Nagavara & Rachenahalli Villages KR Puram Hobli, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560 045 (India) Document No. HCL-FCP[protected]FRE[protected] Sub. HCL First Careers - Training & Joining Program Dear Candidate, Congratulations! Your CV has been short-listed in our annual direct campus online interview program (HCL First Careers) in HCL Technologies Ltd. The Company required urgent staff for Administration, HR and IT Department. Your online process will be held, 12th of Feb 2022 from 9.30 A.M to 5.30 P.M. Appointment locations: Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Madurai, Noida, Nagpur, Pune & Vijayawada... HCL Online Recruitment Drive 2022 (A) Online Interview (B) HCL First Careers Training & Joining Program HCL Technologies First Careers Program: HCL First Careers is a 360-degree assured job training program that is aimed at new college graduates who are looking for the right first step for their global career in technology and IT Services. The program trains you with the practical skills needed to be successful in your first job. In the past few years, over 18000 candidates across the country have undertaken HCL Training & Hiring Programs and joined HCL post their successful completion of the program. First six months your online Training period, Company provide your (C.T.C) Salary up to Rs. 10k/Month. Students successfully complete the training program by online are employed on HCL Technologies Payroll without any Interview. Completion of the training program company offered the best salary (CTC) to all selected candidates for different posts – Starting Salary of INR 2.9 to 6.3 Lakhs per annum. Note: Appointment Letter allots after clear the online interview. If in case you are not clear the interview, then you can Join directly HCL First Careers Program, without any training fee. Payment Process: You have to deposit as an initial per program amount in favor of Company Name to collect your payment department for INR 5000 + 250 INR (G.S.T.) INR 5250/- (Five Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Rupees) in HCL Technologies. Just to prove that you will be attending the both Programs. Refund Condition: You are selected or not in both of cases amount is refundable without G.S.T. HCL Technologies Account Details: Cash | Check & D.D is Note: After deposit the payment fill the application form ASAP. Because after complete your application form company allot your offer letter & login details. The Last date to apply in the Application Form is 12th of Feb 2022. To register Application Form kindly click on the link (Application-Link) HRD - Manager | Prashanth Ramesh Contact Number | +[protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)