2. This bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant-
 Bhartendu Nayak with prayer to release on bail in connection with Sonua
 P.S. Case No. 17 of 2024 registered under section 376 of the Indian Penal
 Code, pending in the court of learned S.D.J.M., Porahat, West Singhbhum at
 Chaibasa. 3. The FIR of this case was lodged victim herself against the
 petitioner Bhartendu Nayak wherein the allegations are made that the
 informant had love affairs with Bhartendu Nayak from the age when she
 was 15 years old. On the pretext of marriage, he had been continuously
 sexually exploiting her. She was also married in childhood with another
 person. The same was also broken at the behest of Bhartendu Nayak and
 thereafter on the pretext of marriage he continued to establish physical
 relation with her. In the year 2022, she came to know that Bhartendu Nayak
 was going to marry with another girl. She met to Bhartendu Nayak, he still
 told her that he would marry with her and have faith upon him. In the year
 2024, she came to know from the relative of Bhartendu Nayak that he was
 going to marry and the marriage card were being distributed. When she
 asked the same to Bhartendu Nayak, he got annoyed and On 26.02.2024 he
 asked her to come to the hotel and also stated that if she refused to come he
 would make her nude video viral. He took her to the hotel by the motorcycle
 thereto he established physical relation with her. He took her to several
 hotels by showing her Aadhar card entry was made in the room and the
 sexual relations established with her. On 05.03.2024 he still blackmailed her
 on making the nude video viral. Further he also took her to a room thereto
 he also established physical relation with her in Chaibasa. A Panchayat was
 also held wherein the decision was given against her hence this FIR was
 lodged. 4. From the very perusal of the FIR it is found that the victim was
 having love affair with the petitioner since being 15 years old and in her
 statement under section 164 of Cr.PC she has categorically stated that for
 last 8 years she was having love affair with the present petitioner. On the
 date of lodging FIR victim was 23 years old. Obviously 8 years back victim
 was minor but on attaining majority at the age of 18 she continued in
 courtship of present petitioner and also continued to establish physical
 relation with her. She went to several places alongwith petitioner and never
 raised alarm and also established physical relation after having attained
 majority till the age of 23 year. She continuously established physical
 relation with him even after having come to know that his parents were not
 going to get him marry with her. The victim has also alleged that she was
 also married with another person. Her marriage was broken at the behest of
 petitioner but the same allegation is belied by the statement of younger
 sister of victim wherein she stated that the marriage of victim with her
 husband was broken after the settlement between the two families. 5. In view of the thorough conduct of the petitioner after attaining
 the majority, the bail application of the applicant is hereby allowed. Let the
 applicant be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.25,000/-(Rupees
 Twenty Five Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the court concerned in aforesaid case. (Subhash Chand, J.)
RKM 2