SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Section 498A,328,3,4 and 125
DATE: 2024-06-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dk7n95/section_498a32834_and_125/

--- POST TEXT ---

My case is under investigation for 5 months.
I have submitted all relevant proofs and recordings .
My I/ O called my husband who is on a study permit in canada for physical appearance. 
He threatened that he will file counter cases which I really don't care about.
Secondly my I/ O told me after sending this warrant if he doesn't appear she will send a Non- Bailable warrant and then proceed with submitting the charge sheet.
Meanwhile I got this letter from Canada Border Service agency-
"On June 10, 2024, the Office of the Prime Minister forwarded to the Honourable Dominic LeBlanc, 
Minister of Public Safety, Democratic Institutions, and Intergovernmental Affairs, your correspondence
regarding a possible case of immigration fraud and other matters. I am responding on behalf 
of Minister LeBlanc, and I appreciate your sharing the details of a difficult personal situation.
The Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) is committed to client service and acknowledges
the importance of the information you have provided. Information of this kind is actioned 
appropriately, in accordance with procedures and guidelines in place. However, please note that 
the Agency is unable to provide updates and follow-ups regarding specific cases.
If you wish to provide additional information or report other activities, please contact the CBSA 
Border Watch Line through its “Online reporting” link on the Agency’s website at cbsa-asfc.gc.ca/
security-securite/bwl-lsf-eng.html.
With respect to the alleged criminal proceedings, financial fraud, and marital issues, I suggest 
that you contact your local police of jurisdiction and/or (depending on the matter[s] in question) 
consult a lawyer who is authorized to practice law in India.
Contributions like yours are a valuable source of information for the CBSA in protecting the safety 
of Canada."
I have following questions-
1. My I/ O I believe are delaying the submission of chargesheet .
2. She claims to be on some duty due to recent Elections and will come after 10 days and then she will send letter and she told me that she will give him time to appear and he has said that he will corporate with the proceedings and threatened with counter cases.
Is it common for such cases to take 5 to 6 months for submission of chargesheet.
And I don't understand what counter cases he can file since I have done nothing and he threatened me with divorce. 
3. Do I have to fight divorce?
4. Do Canadian government take matters like these seriously? Considering he along with this has committed forgery, misrepresentation and immigration fraud.
5. I am sending a letter to ministry of external affairs and embassy if he doesn't appear.
6. What can I do to strengthen my case because I thought my evidence was Enough but now I came to know there are many other things like politics, bribes in play.
Please help.