SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Reddit, I Need Your Help! House Help Trapped in High-Interest Loan, Struggling to Survive
DATE: 2024-03-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1bcqeon/reddit_i_need_your_help_house_help_trapped_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone, I am a long-time lurker here but barely ever post anything. I needed help or suggestions from you guys. Our house help got her daughter married sometime ago. She took a loan from one of these unauthorized local lenders to get her daughter married. We weren't aware of that for a while until she started having money troubles. Once we learned about it, my family helped her with some money. I helped a bit with my savings as well, but I am still at an early stage of my career, so I barely have anything left after providing for my family.

The problem she is facing now is that after paying for the interest, she barely has anything left to buy food or pay for rent. Her husband and she herself have medical issues that they can't cater to because of this loan. And the problem with these unauthorized lenders is that they take advantage of people who are marginalized and charge a huge interest rate, knowing that banks wouldn't give these people any loans. It pains me to see that they don't even have an ounce of empathy while charging such a huge amount. Anyway, that's a rant for another day.

Given her present situation and her unavailability to make ends meet, I wanted to check with you guys to see if it would be possible for you guys to donate anything. She is a gem of a person and has been with us for so long. I wish that I earned enough so that I could help her. After helping from our side, she is still left to pay Rs. 30000. The interest she pays every month, of course, barely scratches the surface of the principal amount. I checked on crowdfunding sites as well, but the issue is that they need proof. She doesn't have any proof, as this whole unauthorized lending is based on trust.

I know that I have no proof to provide; it's hard to believe if this is legit as there are so many scams happening these days. But all I can say is that I can assure you guys that it is not, and I hope that there is a way to help her. So, people of Reddit, this is where I ask for your help. Would it be possible for you guys to donate a little for this lady in need, or at least provide me with an alternative solution? I am not attaching her bank details right away. I just want to know first what you guys think. Sorry for the long post.