SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: likely scammed out of $300 holding deposit
DATE: 2023-02-02
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/10r8vtm/likely_scammed_out_of_300_holding_deposit/

--- POST TEXT ---

I found someone on a FB group that posted an ad for a short term sublease. Messaged em on FB and paid a $300 holding deposit to take the apartment off market. Apartment #10B at a certain address. Remember that name. I paid the deposit through zelle after I was sent a contract signed by the tenant stating that its a refundable holding deposit that would contribute to month 1's rent. Didnt think much cos I had the contract and have paid for other things via zelle before. Tenant conversed in normal English via chat so I thought no way this was some indian call center mf or nigerian prince or wtv. I got sent pics of the place, and a video of tenant walking around the property, showing it, talking about it. They had a female voice that was consistent with their appearance in their fb profile. Everything looked legit to me. But, I've also never done this before, so I didn't think to look any further to make sure she's legit.

1 day after paying the deposit, I get a message. I was meant to tour the place this friday but in this message, tenant says she can't tour the place this friday bc she has a family emergency. She urged me to sign the sublease contract and that she could mail me the key after. I'm v skeptical now. So, I looked up the address, found the property mgmt company that owned the building at that address, called em, and they told me that no room called #10B exists, and no current tenant they know of is looking to sublet.

A very small part of my brain is hoping this is all a misunderstanding but I doubt it. I think its just an elaborate scam.

I'm still trying to message the tenant to get my money back but given the fact that #10B doesn't exist im gonna assume I got scammed.

Thing is, I paid that money to someone on Zelle. Got their name and email. Is there a way to report this? Even if the name on that account is fake it should still be tied to a real bank account, right? Surely there's a way to get the mf behind this in trouble. At this point I'd be willing to spend 3x the amount they scammed me if it means they go to jail lol (and maybe owe me the legal fees). Any tips?