SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: ‘Everything starts & ends with one family’: In Trichy, Modi accuses DMK of ‘scientific corruption’
AUTHOR: Shweta Tripathi
DATE: 2026-03-12
URL: https://theprint.in/politics/everything-starts-ends-with-one-family-in-trichy-modi-accuses-dmk-of-scientific-corruption/2876712/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Tiruchirappalli:
Prime Minister Narendra Modi Wednesday accused the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) of running a “scientific model of corruption” in Tamil Nadu. “In DMK rule, everything starts and ends with one family. Ministers may change, MLAs may change, but power remains only with one dynasty. DMK is in favour of their scientific corruption model. Today, the same model is being used to make Tamil Nadu an ATM for that family,” he said.
Accusing the party of funneling all resources to one family, Modi pointed indirectly at DMK Minister K.N. Nehru. The minister from Trichy is involved in a cash-for-jobs scam, the Prime Minister thundered.
Pitching the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as the only force capable of delivering “complete change” in the state, Modi said that the current election season reflects a strong public desire for change that goes beyond replacing one family. “Not only for a family, but they want a complete change and NDA can bring about the change,” Modi said.
Show Full Article
Emphasising that DMK has not fulfilled the promises made for the farmers in the delta regions, he said that DMK had promised advanced infrastructure, modern grain warehouses and support price hikes but it has failed the farmers. Modi highlighted the investments made by Union Government to underline his contention that the NDA is capable of bringing progress and development to Tamil Nadu. “Since 2014, the Central government has given Rs 3 lakh crore for development of Tamil Nadu. This is many more times than the amount during the earlier Congress-DMK government,” he said.
Also Read:
BJP has a wish list for Tamil Nadu. It’s brought seat-sharing talks with AIADMK to a standstill
“The NDA government has spent nearly Rs 57,000 crore on national highways in the state, which is four times the amount spent by the Congress-DMK government from 2004-14″. He also added that Rs 15,000 crore has been allocated for highways projects and Rs 8,000 crore for developing roads in rural areas.
The NDA’s push towards southern Tamil Nadu was highlighted as Modi highlighted Madurai airport’s upgrade to international status. “Now the world is at the doorstep of Madurai and it will benefit business owners, farmers, pilgrims and tourists,” Modi said, laying out his vision of farmers airlifting Madurai malli flowers to Paris or New York the same evening.
New projects galore
The prime minister inaugurated and laid foundation stones of multiple projects worth Rs 5,650 crore, covering railways, renewable energy, manufacturing, and rural roads—projects that promise thousands of jobs. He said that the projects are aimed at enhancing connectivity, energy access, and creating thousands of jobs for the state’s youth.
Modi also flagged off five new train services: two Amrit Bharat Express trains (Nagercoil-Charlapalli and Podanur-Dhanbad), the Rameswaram-Mangaluru Express, Tirunelveli-Mangaluru Express, and a new Mayiladuthurai-Thiruvarur-Karaikkudi service, boosting links with Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, and eastern India. In the petroleum sector, Modi laid the foundation for Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited’s City Gas Distribution Network in the Nilgiris and Erode.
He said there is a rise in crimes against women under DMK, including an incident involving a minor linked to a party member, and promised that under NDA “criminals will live in fear, not women”. Touching on women’s empowerment, the prime minister said that central schemes including Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) and Mudra loans have helped women, especially the women entrepreneurs. He also urged the public to not believe rumours of fuel shortages amid the ongoing West Asia conflict, recalling India’s mature response to the COVID pandemic.
He said that the upcoming polls are the most important for Tamil Nadu as it is a clear choice between “dynasty politics and corruption” versus “development and honest governance”. Tamil Nadu wants change, Tamil Nadu wants NDA, Modi said.
Sharing the stage with Modi, AIADMK general secretary Edappadi K Palaniswami also amplified the attack on DMK by slamming the party for “begging” Congress for a share in power and seats, only to become its “slave” in a desperate alliance after nearly 20 days.
Palaniswami hailed the NDA as a wonderful, strong, victorious partnership built on mutual trust, unlike DMK-Congress. He said that AIADMK workers would swarm like ants and bees to install a wonderful regime in the assembly polls. He framed NDA as united to ‘remove DMK, drive out the looters’ for Tamil Nadu’s growth. Palaniswami also said that only a quarter of DMK’s promises have been implemented, labeling them “all lies” and accusing the party of bold announcements followed by inaction.
(Edited by Nardeep Singh Dahiya)
Also Read:
Stalin writes to PM Modi over safe evacuation of Tamils stranded in West Asia, LPG shortage