SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Oxford Dictionaries selects first Hindi Word of the Year
DATE: 2018-02-02
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7uqyg1/oxford_dictionaries_selects_first_hindi_word_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

Oxford Dictionaries announced its inaugural Hindi Word of the Year on Saturday 27 January. 

​The word selected was ‘aadhaar’ which in its traditional sense means ‘The foundation on which all the weight of an object or idea is hinged’ but has come to be used more recently to refer to the ‘12-digit unique identification number issued by the government to all Indians’. It was this second meaning that established ‘aadhaar’ as the Hindi Word of the Year for 2017 given its position at the centre of the national conversation throughout the year as moves to mandate expansion of the programme to bank accounts and phone numbers resulted in significant debates around the merits and risks of the programme as well as several high-profile court cases and reports of data leaks which have influenced public opinion. 

The word was chosen by the Oxford Dictionaries team in India with the help of an advisory panel of language experts and was announced at the Jaipur Literature Festival where it was subject of a panel discussion with Ashok Vajpeyi, Hindi poet, literary and cultural critic, Saurabh Dwivedi, Editor at TheLallentop and former Associate Editor of India Today, Pankaj Dubey, writer, producer and director, Vinod Dua, Hindi journalist and Padma Shri award-holder, Anu Singh Choudhary, writer, translator and filmmaker, and Chitra Mudgal, one of the leading literary figures of modern Hindi literature.

The Hindi Word of the Year shortlist: 

Notebandi – Excluding notes of specific value classes from circulation
Swachh – 1. Clean living and pure surroundings. 2. Transparent and corruption free arrangement
Vikaas – 1. Taking action to move towards a better stage. 2. A better quality of life with happiness
Yoga – Balanced coordination of body, mind, and emotions
Bahubali – 1. A person capable of doing any work through strength of courage and physical strength. 2. A politically influential person

This is the first time that Oxford Dictionaries has selected a Word of the Year in a non-English language, underlining OUP’s growing language expertise outside of English and the strength of the Oxford brand to offer a unique perspective on lexical developments across the world.