SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Iran war prompts Ukraine-Saudi Arabia defence deal. Kyiv seeks Patriot missile swap for anti-drone tech
AUTHOR: Keshav Padmanabhan
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/diplomacy/iran-war-prompts-ukraine-saudi-arabia-defence-deal-kyiv-seeks-patriot-missile-swap-for-anti-drone-tech/2890324/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
The ongoing conflict in West Asia has led to Saudi Arabia and Ukraine concluding a defence cooperation agreement Friday,
as the Gulf countries
facing the brunt of Iran’s retaliation via unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) eye assistance in drone defence from Kyiv.
For Ukraine, the deal could potentially lead to an easing of supplies for the expensive PAC-3
(Patriot Advanced Capability-3)
munitions used by US-made Patriot defence systems to shoot down ballistic missiles. Kyiv is running critically low on its stocks of such munitions.
“We are ready to share our expertise and systems with Saudi Arabia and to work together to strengthen the protection of lives. Now into the fifth year, Ukrainians are resisting the same kind of terrorist attacks – ballistic missiles and drones – that the Iranian regime is currently carrying out in the Middle East and the Gulf region,” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a statement on X.
Show Full Article
He added that Saudi Arabia also has capabilities that are of interest to Ukraine, and this cooperation can be mutually beneficial. “We also discussed the situation in the Middle East and the Gulf region as a whole, Russia’s assistance to the Iranian regime, developments in fuel markets, and potential energy cooperation.”
Zelenskyy made a surprise visit to the Gulf kingdom Thursday, as Ukraine is increasingly worried that its promised military aid from the US may be diverted to the West Asian region, as the war between Washington, Tel Aviv and Tehran carries on into its fourth week, according to a report by the American newspaper,
The Washington Post.
Iran’s retaliation against the US-Israel strikes that began on 28 February has primarily targeted the six member-states of the Gulf Cooperation Council – Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates.
These countries have closed defence ties with the US.
The UAE in particular has faced the brunt of Tehran’s retaliation, engaging with over 2,100 drones and missiles in the last four weeks. Over 4,300 missiles and UAVs have been launched at the six GCC states,
as reported by ThePrint
.
Ukraine has been focussed on developing drone countering strategies as its war with Russia continues for the fifth year. Kyiv is considered to have built some of the best defence platforms against cheap drone strikes, as it has looked to maintain an edge to a larger and better equipped Russian military.
From the early days of the West Asian conflict, Zelenskyy has been pitching Ukraine’s expertise across the Gulf, eyeing the stockpiles of American defence technologies available in the region in return. Over 200 Ukrainian consultants have been sent to the region, as the GCC member-states look to develop cheaper methods to defend against drone strikes.
Iran’s “Shahed” drones cost anywhere from $20,000 to $50,000 a piece to build. These cheap units have been able to target long distances, up to 2,000 kilometers, with precision guidance systems.
The GCC states, that have long built their military arsenal from the US, are using expensive technologies like Patriot systems to shoot down these inexpensive drones. Estimates highlight that every missile launched by a Patriot system costs up to $4 million, creating large cost asymmetry to the war.
Ukraine in comparison has been able to create cheaper drone interception technologies over the last four years as it continues to hold Russia at bay across the front-lines in Eastern Europe. Zelenskyy announced earlier in March that based on a US request, drone interceptors and personnel were sent to Jordan to protect its assets in the West Asian kingdom.
“It also strengthens Ukraine’s international role as a security donor,” Zelenskyy said on the latest deal with Saudi Arabia as Kyiv continues to portray its utility to as a US administration that has long applied pressure on Ukraine to accept the surrendering of its territory and end the war with Russia.
Also Read:
How Iran choked Strait of Hormuz & why it’s not easy to break the blockade
What Ukraine needs from Gulf
For Ukraine, the deal with Saudi Arabia has come as it continues to rally against the Iranian regime. Iran has long been supplying Russia with inexpensive drones such as the Shahed-136, which is designated as the Geran-2 by Moscow.
Zelenskyy has previously confirmed that Ukraine is interested in potential swap deals with the Gulf, stating that “we would very much like this to be an opportunity for both sides” at a press conference after holding meetings with Rob Jetten, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands earlier this month.
Before the current conflict in West Asia began, Kyiv’s Defence Minister Mykhailo Fedorov had said that Ukraine is looking at forming a consortia with its partners to produce air defences capable of shooting down ballistic missiles to overcome the critical shortage of munitions for its Patriot missile systems,
according to a report by
Reuters.
Zelenskyy has long criticised Kyiv’s partners for being slow to transfer the PAC-3 ammunition to keep the Patriot systems online. In January, a number of systems had run out of ammunition, according to
Reuters.
Saudi Arabia received clearance
from the Department of State to purchase 730 PAC-3 missiles in a $9-billion deal with the US in January 2026. The Gulf nations have been building large stockpiles of American ammunition. This is potentially the kind of swap deals Zelenskyy is eyeing as the weather improves in Ukraine, which is set to lead to an intensification of fighting with Russia over the next few months.
(Edited by Ajeet Tiwari)
Also Read:
What Gulf states would say to Iran. War is temporary, geography is permanent