SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Relative harassing online/offline with false accusation.
DATE: 2024-06-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dink76/relative_harassing_onlineoffline_with_false/

--- POST TEXT ---

My father borrowed money from his uncle (who lives in the same colony as ours) years back. The relative have asked few times from my father to return the money, but due to poor financial situations and other loans my father isn't able to return money as of now(but every time my father has given them assurance that he will return their money). 
 
Lately father's uncle and his wife has been coming home to quarrel and fight loud at our door which creates ruckus and everyone in the colony knows about the situation. Still my father gives them assurance every time, he will return every single rupees he owes them.

My father and his uncle happened to share the same govt office(his uncle is retired now). His uncle has spread mis information in father's office that my father is denying to return money.

Few months back, they took one step above and started fighting and abused my family in front of our gate, every colony house saw that scene and has badly tempered father's image.

Few days after this incident my father got a heart attack(which I believe is due to high tension buildup caused by insult and tempered images), he had to undergo a hearth bypass surgery. He had to be bed ridden for 1 month and more 2,3 months as he was very weak and is still taking time to return to normal life. 

2-3 days back, the uncle's family has uploaded a video on social media platforms which shows father is admitting that he had borrowed money few years back and the other part of video shows a clip where the uncle and his wife are at our door fighting verbally with my mother and father, in which my mother is saying 'now we won't return money' which obviously was in the heat of moment because of continuous mental harassment and false allegations.

The videos has text mentioned something like this 'xyz city's biggest fraud and thief. The cap wearing person lures people wrongly to borrow lakhs from people and never returns. As seen in the videos when asked for returning money, the family fights and gives threats.' 
 
Which is utterly false, my father has never denied returning the money, it's just because of financial situations we aren't able to return money. Their family is now harassing our family and is trying every means to defame us.

My father and mother don't even use android phone, father still uses keypad phone and mother has touch phone but only use for calling. 
 
They take interests on the principal amount my father borrowed every few months. 
My father doesn't have money to return principal amount and some pending interests amount now, but with retirement funds he will return the money. He would retire in 2 years. I need help from this community, what can my family do and should do now as they have tempered my father's image in every possible environment(office, relatives, colony) in every possible way. The relative's family would not stop at this and would continue to put false accusations and harass my family.

For context, I don't live with my parents due to private job in other city.

***My question is what can we do with or without going to court to stop the family from harassing us?*** 
***What should we do in return for the false accusations they have shown in video, can we file a case against false accusations?***

**TLDR** 
**Father borrowed money from relatives which we aren't able to return due to poor financial conditions. Relatives family's has tried every mean to harass and defame father, now they have put a video on social media platforms putting false accusations.**