SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Delhi Police arrests history-sheeter using fake woman’s social media profile
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/india/delhi-police-arrests-history-sheeter-using-fake-womans-social-media-profile/2893985/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 1 (PTI) Delhi Police has arrested a 25-year-old history-sheeter after creating a fake social media profile of a woman to lure him, officials said on Wednesday.
The accused, Aman, a resident of Aram Bagh in Paharganj, was a listed “bad character” at the Paharganj police station with a long criminal history, they said.
A police team accessed his social media activity and created a fake profile posing as a woman. He was lured into meeting at a pre-decided location near Jhandewalan Metro Station, where he was apprehended on March 27, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Rohit Rajbir Singh said.
Show Full Article
The arrest followed an investigation into a complaint of a stolen scooter reported on March 19 from outside a residence in the Nabi Karim area. The police team analysed CCTV footage and identified the accused, the DCP said.
The arrest led to the recovery of four stolen scooters and the detection of multiple theft and snatching cases, they said.
During interrogation, the accused allegedly confessed to stealing two-wheelers and using them for snatching and other crimes in nearby areas. He followed a specific modus operandi, stealing scooters and hiding them for 10 to 15 days before using them in snatching incidents, police said.
After committing crimes, he would again conceal the vehicles and switch to newly stolen ones. The police recovered four stolen scooters based on information from different locations, including two from Nabi Karim and one each from Ranjit Nagar and Karol Bagh, they added.
“Aman has been previously involved in over 30 cases of vehicle theft, snatching and related offences across several police stations in central Delhi. Further investigation is underway,” the DCP said. PTI BM SMV APL
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.