SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: MP to host young legislators’ meet; 63 MLAs to participate
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-29
URL: https://theprint.in/india/mp-to-host-young-legislators-meet-63-mlas-to-participate/2891604/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Bhopal, Mar 29 (PTI) As many as 63 MLAs will participate in a two-day conference of young legislators, which will begin at the Madhya Pradesh assembly here on Monday.
According to officials, legislators from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan will be part of the conference organised by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (India Region Zone-6).
Madhya Pradesh Speaker Narendra Singh Tomar reviewed preparations for the conference and issued directions to officials to ensure the event runs smoothly.
Show Full Article
Assembly principal secretary Arvind Sharma was also present with him.
The event aims to strengthen democracy and deliberate on the role of young public representatives, Tomar said, adding that discussions will focus on youth participation and responsibilities in democracy.
Five sessions will be held during the conference, of which three are scheduled for the first day and two for the second day, officials said.
As many as 37 legislators from Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Rajasthan and 13 from Chhattisgarh, all under 45 years of age, will be part of the event, they added.
Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Mohan Yadav, Speaker Narendra Singh Tomar and Rajasthan Assembly Speaker Vasudev Devnani will also attend.
On the first day, deliberations will take place on “Role of Young Legislators in Strengthening Democracy and Citizen Participation”, and Vijay Manohar Tiwari, vice-chancellor of Makhanlal Chaturvedi National University, will address the participants.
Discussions on the second day of the event will focus on “Viksit Bharat 2047 — Responsibilities and Challenges of Young Legislators”, and Rahul V Karad, chairman of MIT Pune, will address a session.
Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh will attend the closing ceremony.
Madhya Pradesh Assembly Affairs Minister Kailash Vijayvargiya and Leader of the Opposition Umang Singhar will be present as special guests. PTI LAL ARU
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.