SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Advice on how to proceed with Friend not giving back money
DATE: 2022-02-01
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/shn0lo/advice_on_how_to_proceed_with_friend_not_giving/

--- POST TEXT ---

Short version : how to take back money from a friend who owes me ? (I do have whatsapp proofs and call recordings)

Long version:
Hello everyone,

In Dec second week, one of my friend has requested an amount of 35K from me. I generally don't entertain these situations but the said friend has lost his wife recently and I became sympathetic. So, even though I didn't have the money, I requested another friend for his credit card and gave the details for purchase.(they both don't know each other)

Now, at the time of purchase, he gave me 10k, effectively with a balance of 25k. He said he'll return in 10 days. I.e before Jan 1st week. He was in contact till Jan, asking for even more(for rituals), I was feeling irritated and didn't want to arrange even more and gently said, I don't have that much money and couldn't arrange. (Since I'm on medical leave, I didn't have any income from last two months -- this will be useful later). 

Now when the time has come to give the money back, he started giving excuses. 
-"I actually took the money for my cousin"
-"I'll give it back as soon as he gives"
And after couple of days of trying, he stopped responding altogether. We bombarded him with calls. He even picked up once from an unknown number and cut the call after recognising my voice.

He came in contact after 4-5 days, and gave excuses as to why he was unavailable. I was seething, but since I needed the money back, I was nice to him. Again, for 2 days he said he's getting money back from his Cousin and he'll pay back. After that, he went No-Contact again. I'll be trying calling him, he'll purposely ignore my calls. Call waiting will come sometimes when he's talking to others, and when the call is over, he'll cut my call and switch off the phone. 

It's been 45 days since all this started, and I don't have any hope he'll give the money back(since Yesterday was his payday). I was unable to pay my friend coz I was not working and he understood my situation.

What enrages me is he took advantage of sympathy and tried to scam me. If he atleast came in contact, and explained anything, I wouldn't be so angry at him. 

Now, my last resort, since he's not giving the money back, I'll wait another 15-20days, then to go to police. I just want a FIR against him, so that it'll be a problem for him when he tries to go overseas / change companies. (BGC will be done since we both are in IT industry)

-How should I proceed about this now ?(Legal perspective? I heard police won't file FIR and just take complaint on plain paper. How to force them to take complaint/FIR ? I don't care if they act on this case or not. Since if an FIR comes into picture, he'll automatically give the money back-- hoping)
-What sections does this complaint come under ? (Cheating ?)
-Can anyone suggest what should I do to get the amount back? Plan of action? I'm thinking the only way is to file FIR.