SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Lost all my savings to a fraud at the worst time
DATE: 2024-10-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1g9c6gp/lost_all_my_savings_to_a_fraud_at_the_worst_time/

--- POST TEXT ---

I want to begin by saying that I would always be surprised why people fell for the most obvious scams online and lose all their money. And maybe this was the reason why the same thing happened to me, because you truly don't understand until it happens to you or someone close.

I was planning to pursue my higher studies in the US for spring intake and I already had gotten a couple of admits from good universities. I needed an education loan of around Rs. 60 lakhs to complete my studies. I applied to various banks, both public and private as well as some nbfcs (also through we make scholars) to get this but every single loan application was rejected since I didn't have a strong co applicant. My mother is a single parent and she is the only person who can act as the co applicant. And since she is a homemaker and above 60 years old, my profile was not getting approved. 

I had enrolled in shiksha.com for assistance to study abroad. I was initially introduced to the culprit when he was still working in the financial department. He contacted me asking if I wanted a loan and after getting to know about my situation he promised that he could get an education loan of Rs. 60 lakhs without any co applicant. He asked me to pay Rs. 60k in advance for a loan of Rs. 60 lakhs. I disagreed and he finally settled for starting the application process for 5k. I paid this amount and he started to collect my personal documents for filling out the loan application. He said he was applying to incred finance, a leading nbfc. The next day he called me and said I had to pay more money to get the application move forward. This happened everyday for a week where he would ask for more money saying some or the other reason. Up until this point, I had transferred the initial advance he had asked i.e. Rs.60k. I got all the credit calls but no home verification, as the culprit said he had managed to bribe someone in incred to skip this. The next day, I got a official email from incred saying my loan was approved but upon opening the portal I saw only Rs. 36 lakhs was approved, which was very less than my requirement. I called him and he said that the relationship manager involved in my case was asking for more money to increase the amount to 60 lakhs. And so it began. Almost everyday, he would call me saying that the loan would be approved the very next day but I needed to pay an additional amount to get a signature from someone or get someone to send an email or something else like this. He always spoke in English and was very knowledgeable about all the immigration and loan processes and he also had given me his pan and aadhar (probably fake, I realise now), which was why I was convinced. For almost 1.5 months, he took a total of Rs.16 lakhs from my savings, 3 credit cards and even from my mother's savings. After the 3L mark, he always assured me that this money was going to be refunded so whatever I was paying was just temporary. 

I confirmed that he was a fraud when I asked him to send a picture of the incred office in Delhi which he said he visited everyday, and he sent some random googled image of another incred branch in Telangana. He is still in contact with me, and even yesterday he tried to convince me he sent that picture because it was forwarded by another incred employee. Now he is blackmailing me that the incred team will take legal action against me if I don't pay them more money for approval. He is saying that rejection is not an option at this point as he has involved some unknown person to act as co-applicant and this is why the incred team will put a case against me. From the last 5 days, I have approached 3 different police stations who have just pointed me to go to the other station because it doesn't come under their "limits". I have also approached west division CEN, but they have sent me back by telling this doesn't come under cybercrimes and should be charged as a cheating case. I have never met the culprit in person and all the transactions took place online. 

I have lost all my savings to this fraud but more importantly I don't know what to do next or who to contact. Is this what all common people who don't know some big MLA or MP go through when they are a victim of a crime? Maybe this is the reason why so many scammers are rampant in India. That they cannot be brought to justice as long as they target the common man. I will be very grateful if anyone can help me in this to get justice.

Thank you and don't be blindsided into falling for these evil people.