SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Having an issue with a Colive Property Management Company (The Helloworld Coliving)
DATE: 2025-01-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ib95wf/having_an_issue_with_a_colive_property_management/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, 
 
I want to know certain things. I have been living in rent in a property managed by The Helloworld Coliving in Mumbai. I am facing a fundamental necessity issue, which is drinking water, for which they were supposed to put up a water purifier on the property. They provide water that the property's caretaker refills from another property, and a 20ltr can be used for five people. I have faced multiple issues, such as 
1. Refilling the water from my friend's place. 
2. No water available in the middle of the night 
3. The caretaker not being available to get water, which I have to purchase from Blinkit 
 
I had raised multiple complaints with their support team, but they closed the ticket without providing an update or getting a customer response. Their customer service number is provided on the website. I called multiple times, but no one answered the calls. Sometimes, someone responded, but they lack basic essentialnication and accountability. 

The biggest culprit is the property manager; I am sure he has never visited the property. He does most of his work via phone like a mafia boss. Most of the time, he has made false promises and no accountability. Whenever an issue is raised in a call, he gives vague timelines like "it will be done". And the biggest irony is that there is only one property manager for the entire location. The support team mainly contacts the property manager to resolve tickets. IItis like a Ponzi scheme where the issue goes completely unheard. I am paying 30k as rent for one single room; I mean, there is a TV, a F#\*\*ING TV in the amenities, which is entirely useless but no Water Purifier. The management should be pretty dumb and lame to come up with this.

 
Now the reason I am facing eviction is I have already mentioned to the support team on email that I will be withholding my rent payment until my issue is fixed which they don't seem to care about as they closed those support tickets which I have raised saying the issue has been fixed but in ground reality nothing's been done. I am clear that when I signed the agreement Water Purifer was part of the amenities that they were supposed to provide. What should I do in this case?