SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: The thing more frustrating than the currently screwed Job Market is parents not understanding how crappy Job Market is becoming
DATE: 2024-01-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/19cyqre/the_thing_more_frustrating_than_the_currently/

--- POST TEXT ---

(Rant) 

I just want to vent out the most frustrating thing that I've been going through every day with my parents. I'm a 2022 graduate currently working a job with a decent salary, enough for covering basic needs and having money for side expenses like shopping and hobbies, but not quite enough to get "settled in life," you know, buy a car, save for retirement, etc. Just like everybody else, I am trying to get better jobs, but holy sh*t, it's just so frustrating.
For the past year, I think I applied for like 10,000 jobs, and I didn't even get a SINGLE legit reply from them. The replies I got were that they would conduct an interview and completely ghost you only after you realized you were just a free intern training their new hiring managers. Not to mention the cesspool scam shit of people asking you for money as "software expenses," which made up over 70% of the responses I got from all the jobs I applied for.

Ok, you can go screw online shit; I'm gonna just search for jobs the ol' way. Attending interviews and applying physically. I went through over 20 such interviews last year. The packages that were disclosed would be so good, but only after going through hell, which is like 7 rounds of interviews, will they disclose to you that they have multiple shits like "health schemes" that will catch more than half of the "package" and give you the ripe amount of ₹15k in hand. 

It seems that the only way to ever get a "good job" is to work as a glorified slave to corporations, working for 15+ hours a day in front of a laptop, or just go to jobs like delivery, cashiers, or participate in the nation-wide lucky draw that is competitive government jobs that will either actually get you settled in life or land you straight to the mental hospital after years of having parasocial relationships with books. Not even joking, I know at least 7 people who are in the state where they can't form coherent sentences, can't do anything, and are receiving therapy as frying your brain to books completely broke them internally.

Ok, I'll come to the point in the title. After the mental torture I go through every day, you know what my parents say? That I'm LYING. Yes, they can't believe that I didn't get a job after applying for 10,000 jobs. They said, "entha madaiyan aavathu summave job application nu poduvana? Unakku hard-working job panna ishtam illa, adhukkaga nee daily-um apply pandra maariyum, interview pora maariyum nadikira". 

This is honestly so unhinged that it's funny. The absolute mental agony and torture I go through every day of some guy calling me going "maadaam neenga 5000 mattum katna podhum maadaam ungallukku maasam 30k vandhurum" are all for my parents to tell me I'm lying and that I'm acting. Theyre literally in the 1980s, where they think people would get jobs that would settle them in life just like that after graduating. 

I can't believe how they would come to this conclusion, as even among my relatives, people my age are just earning 20k-30k, and two of my cousins are earning more than 80k a month. How are they earning that much? They work 16 hours a day; they leave for the office at 5 a.m. and come home by 8pm. After coming home, theyd open their laptops and work until 12 or 1 a.m. They went from being the happiest individuals to being someone who is one bad day away from becoming the Anniyan. 

I'm so dumbfounded by how anyone who sees the nilaimai of people my age every day has the ability to say, "I'm lying" and "I'm lazy" about jobs. 

End of rant. Thanks for coming to my TED talk.

PS: I am taking a break from applying for jobs. It's beyond frustrating when I open my inbox and see a thousand "job applied" emails and unknown scammers calling me every hour. 

TLDR: The current job market is so screwed for COVID and post-COVID graduates, and it's tiring how parents can't comprehend the sad state of the current job market.