SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need advice regarding Loans my Mom has taken on my name
DATE: 2024-03-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bd9ag4/need_advice_regarding_loans_my_mom_has_taken_on/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello guys,

My mom has 4 loans out of that 1 is mortgage loan for which I'm the co-applicant and 3 personal loans which were taken solely on my name and cibil.

Out of the 3 personal loan, 1 is of 88K taken from cred app for 1 month emi only and 2 loans of 5L from icici and kotak for 5 years since 2022.

Since last 6 months she was not able to pay the loans on time like the payments were done every 3 months. I have also helped in some payment but not much as I also want to do savings for marriage and my future.

The loans from ICICI and Kotak are due from last 3 months and the one from Cred has not been paid from last 5-6 months. The mortgage loan as well has not been paid since last 3-4 months and now I have been getting harassment from all these loan agents since everything was on my name.

Not sure what to do now? I earn around 14L PA which after taxes i get around 1L to 99k per month from which i pay house hold expenses around 20-30k per month and used to do 21k SIP in mutual funds ( 4.7 L invested till now since last 3-4 years) which i had to stop since last 6 months due to all these and help in the EMI.

Please help me with what steps to take to get this stress away and I'm also ready to settle the loans as last resort which will affect my cibil score for 7 years but not sure if that's the best way to go forward. I'm also planning to remove some amount from MFs to help in this but I'm worried that my future savings and plans will be cut short.

I have a visa application on the way for a business trip to UK which my company is sponsoring and I'm not sure if all these will effect my visa application approval as I do not want to miss this chance.

Currently we have given our home as a heavy deposit for 10L and rented out a new place 1bhk which is cheaper in rent around 10k pm.

Do help me how to manage all these.