SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Client harassing with legal action for freelance work
DATE: 2023-05-14
SCORE: 56
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/13gyuu7/client_harassing_with_legal_action_for_freelance/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Guys,
I am a freelance artist who works on Upwork.com. I have been working online with multiple clients over the past decade with no problems whatsoever. But recently I got into a contract over Upwork (American website) with an NRI Client from Canada. The client had an NDA signed by me and shipped me a HDD from Canada for his work to be done. 

When I submitted the first batch of work for review the client did not respond for a week or so and and post a week when I requested for payment the client sent a very rude message stating not to put pressure on him for payment and find work with other clients. Obviously I understood that the client is not financially capable to pay for the entire contract and verbally we parted ways. After a week the client again messaged me, to check if I had calmed down, as if I was making a mistake by not working with him. Since my grandfather was in the hospital I couldnt reply the same day. The very next day the client threatened me with police action for not replying to his messages. I replied to the client the same day that since he’s not paid me, I’m under no obligation to respond promptly. Plus he can have his HDD picked up at his own risk post clearing my dues. The client refused and wished to receive his HDD first, which he claims has confidential data (imo it’s crap) and then make payment. 

Post another few days the client ends contract on upwork, without paying me and sends me a message to ship the HDD else he will send police to my house for mischief. He called me unprofessional and unethical and a disgrace to Indians! He was constantly making personal statements despite not paying my dues. I googled this guy and apparently he’s a fraud in Canada. He’s had multiple cases against him. Even had his real estate license cancelled for unethical practices and had multiple employees sue him and judgements where he’s been penalised for thousands of dollars! 

Keeping all this in mind, I replied again that I will not ship the HDD at any personal risk and he should arrange for it to be picked up by one of his other Indian employees. The client agreed. I thought the drama was over but it was not. 

Just like Swiggy post ending the contract, I had left a negative review of the client on Upwork, which is a true picture of my experience. He had hired me, ended the contract abruptly without any prior warning and payment. Additionally I advised fellow freelancers to check him on Glassdoor and Trustpilot and work with him only on a secure basis and advised caution. 

This dude sends me a message threatening me with defamation and harassment, and tells me that he knows twice the number of people in Delhi than me (insinuating that he will send goons) and will have cops and lawyers at my residence in 30 minutes and if I did not change my review he will put a lien on my apartment! 

All the constant threats and harassment is taking its toll on me. I told this guy to do what he wants and blocked him. Yesterday an Indian employee of his messaged me over whatsapp asking me to ship the hdd to someone in Kolkata. I told her politely over a call that to safeguard my legal interests I will not ship the HDD and she can send someone in person with an authorised letter and a written affidavit and take the HDD from me. 

This guy again emailed me threatening with legal action along with rude language. 

Ladies and Gentlemen, I just want to know what’s the best legal recourse and is there really something this guy can do to me legally ? I am an Indian national. This guy probably holds a Canadian passport. I have signed an NDA which is valid only in Canada. The freelance website is registered in USA. Kindly advise. 

Thank you for your patience to read this and respond.