SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: CS against my previous employer.
DATE: 2024-09-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fcms94/cs_against_my_previous_employer/

--- POST TEXT ---

I worked in a bpo in mohali for nine months and I was given a work from home system however it stopped working one day and I had to submit it back in the office.
I wasn’t given any receipt of submission and when I asked my manager told me that he wasn’t able to generate a gate pass and that he will let me know when gets the pass and in the meantime I was asked to put the system in admin room.
I put my resignation after 15 days and my manager told me I won’t be getting wfh for my notice period.
I did ask him about the system three to four times and the told me I don’t need to worry about it as I will have to serve the notice period from office.
After completion of my notice period I came back home.
After 15 days I got an email about missing system from the office and they started asking me to pay 1.5 lacs to get my experience letter.
I mailed them again and again to check their security cameras and even texted my TL about the same but even after my multiple requests they sent me a legal notice at my house.
I started mailing higher authorities after that because my mother was so scared that she was trying to arrange that money.
She was afraid that I might go to jail.
After three months of resigning I got a text from my TL that they have found the system,
It is in the office and they are trying to locate it.
I asked them about the experience letter as I was getting a job as a fresher with very low pay without an experience letter.
I requested them multiple times to clear my fnf and give me my experience letter but he again started ignoring my calls texts and mails.
After waiting for 6 months I filed a civil suit against them.
I have demanded extra 6 months of experience and salary.

I want to know if I stand any chance of winning that case.
I have all the proofs of chats and mails.

Also, I joined this company in a lets say A process however that process was ramped down after three months and they gave me an option to join another process B,
I worked in B for 6 months and total of 9 months in the organisation.
When I resigned my brother went to the same organisation for the interview but he was rejected because his adharcard was already registered under my name in process A and they also told him that he absconded from the services without any proper formalities hence he cannot join the organisation again.
I cannot remember giving them my brother’s adhar card I don’t know from where they get that and why they used it under my name in process A and declared me absconded.

So I have also accused them of identity theft.