SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Scam at Nokia Authorised Service Centre, Saachi Services. Need advice.
DATE: 2019-10-06
SCORE: 42
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/ddzdtd/scam_at_nokia_authorised_service_centre_saachi/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, 

I got scammed at a Nokia authorised service centre and need some advice as to what I can do. Details are as follows (TL;DR below):

On Friday, I got caught in the rain and my phone got slightly wet but I managed to put it in a bag. I dried it as best I could and since it was working fine, I continued to use it. I know this was a mistake. I try to charge the phone and I can see the charging indication (but I now realise that it was not charging). After some time the phone got switched off and didn't boot, no matter what. So, yesterday I took it to Saachi Services, which is listed as an authorised Nokia service centre on their website. 

Once I got there, I told them the problem and even mentioned that it got a little wet in the rain. In hindsight that was not a smart thing to do but I just wanted to get my phone fixed ASAP. The lady at the counter doesn't prepare any kind of job card or note down my details, the phone details or the problem but says that they will open it and let me know what the issue is. They ask me to wait for 20 minutes, which I do. The technician then comes out and says that the charging port is an issue so he replaces it with a new one (I assume, as he took it out of what looked like a sealed packet) in front of me and tries to boot the phone. Nothing happens, so he checks the battery voltage and tells me that it is fully charged (it was about 3.4 V). Now he says that he'll have to check the motherboard and get back which will take another 20 minutes. I had to attend office, so I ask him to call me when it's done and get his number too. He doesn't call, so after about 1hour, I call him back. This time he says that the motherboard needs to be replaced, and asks if he can go ahead. Since the place is close to my office, I tell him that I'll come there and then confirm. I get there and he opens up the complete phone. He gets a new motherboard and replaces it but the phone doesn't turn on. He then gets out a screen and replaces that in the board and its working. Now he tests with the original motherboard and voila, that's working too. 

This is where the drama starts. I ask him the cost of replacement and he says it will be a max of ₹5000. I ask him to confirm 3-4 times and every time it's the same answer. I'm in a hurry, so I tell him to change it. Again, there is no paper trail so far that I have come to the centre and given my phone. I have to wait another 20 minutes, so I quickly head back out and tell him to call. However, I reach back by 6:30 pm (the store closes at 7:00 pm), which is when he said that the phone would be ready. I can see my phone still lying outside, dismantled. The technician takes it when he sees me and again asks me to wait. He comes out with the phone once and shows me that everything is working and takes it back inside. He finally comes out only after everyone else, except one guy, have left. I can hear them talking loudly about the cost of the screen. Then they both come out and are ask me if I want an invoice. I said yes, so then they said that they made a mistake. The actual cost of replacement is ₹9977. But, since they committed 5k, they'll do it for the same amount but without an invoice. I argue for some time but I didn't want to pay the 9k so I agree and transfer the money to the second guy's personal account using UPI. When asked about the warranty, the guy says that it will be treated under my original phone warranty, not a problem. I'm not happy, but I leave. The phone seems to be working fine, so I carry on. 

Later, I try to charge the phone again and I can see the charging indication but it is not charging. It is the same as before. I'm out 5K without any proof except the UPI transaction ID and my phone is still not working. 

If I had refused to pay the money, they would have just replaced the screen with any faulty one. Is there anything I can do and get my money back?

TL;DR

1) Got caught in rain, phone got wet. 
2) Phone stopped working so I took it to a Nokia authorised service centre. I know that water damage is not covered under the warranty terms, so I am willing to pay for the repairs (as long as it is reasonable). 
3) Had to go there 3 times and each time the problem told was different.
4) Finally I'm told that the screen needs to be replaced. When asked about the price, the technician says max of ₹5000
5) Agree to pay
6) When I go to collect the phone, the technician and one guy say that they made a mistake and the actual cost is ₹9977. They'll do it for 5k without an invoice.
7) They made me wait till everyone else left the office. It was only the three of us in there.
8) If I refused to pay, they would probably put a non-working screen even if my original one was working to stay in line with the story of screen damage. No way of confirming anything.
7) Pay the money through UPI transfer to the guy's personal account
8) Phone seems to work fine but is having the same issue as before

Edit: added some clarification.

Update 1: Thank you all for showing support. I wanted to post this so that others can also beware of such scams. I just want these cheaters to pay for their actions. Not optimistic about the money, but that's alright. I have sent an email to Nokia support. Waiting for the reply.

Update 2: Customer Care got back quickly the first time. After sharing the details of my situation, I had to follow up just to get an acknowledgement of the receipt of my email. They set up a call to understand the issue. Next they ask me to fix a time when I can visit the service centre and they will call and resolve the issue. I do that and reach the service centre, however no call back. I call them up and they ask to speak with the service centre executive. They get him to agree to create a job sheet and invoice. Once the call is over he starts pleading that how can he prepare the job sheet, etc. I call back the customer care and they speak to him again. After this he says he'll do it. He creates the job sheet and surprise surprise... There's no part in stock in their inventory. IF MY SCREEN WAS CHANGED AND NO JOB SHEET WAS CREATED, THE NUMBER OF SPARES IN THEIR INVENTORY SHOULD NOT HAVE REDUCED. I should have got the invoice on the spot but I have to wait for the part to come. Now I'm completely sure that this is a scam/fraud.

Have written back to Nokia but no response.