SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got a Call from "Cyber Police". Need Help.
DATE: 2023-11-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1841wcr/got_a_call_from_cyber_police_need_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

Someone named Ajay called me from North Zone Cyber Police Station in Chennai. Some minor kid's po-rn Is leaked in some group I was 'supposedly' in and that they have rounded me off because I was active in that group. The Child's mother is an influential political counsellor in DMK or DMD of TN. He says it's not a police case, but that the groups I have been in are immoral, therefore I need state sponsored counselling. They say I have been in so many groups like that and that they have checked my chats and stuffs. 

They say the chats are immoral because they discuss Incest and cuckolding. First of all, I'm not into either of them and I'm just looking for couples. So why would I need counselling, along with the people who have these extremities as fetishes? Also, I don't get off at CP and I honestly think it's gross.

I have a few reasons to believe it's a Scam. Because I only joined Adult WhatsApp groups yesterday and I only made a few comments in there. He further clarifies that it's a telegram group and that it was banned over a week ago. Now, I am definite that I haven't been active in any adult telegram groups. *Even if I was active a long time ago, my chats are always casual and searching for couples to have fun with.*

Now, what He suggested was that I pay the 2500 Rs. Challan by 9.30 AM today. Otherwise, I will get a letter from Chennai Cyber Police and I will have to be present for a counselling session, pay the 2500 Rs. Challan, and since I'm under 25, My guardians must also be present. He had called me at 8.00 AM today morning.

Now guys, do u think this is a scam? My heart tells me it is. I have got a 2 minute Audio recording at the end of our conversation, where he gets angry at me for not complying with his advises. I did make him say his name and office affiliation. 

What I want to know is, are there any Legal provisions to hold me responsible in such a way?

Should I be afraid of the possibility that it could be real? Are there any possibility that it could be real?