SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Myntra Scam : Return Pick up
DATE: 2023-04-26
SCORE: 239
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12z4eux/myntra_scam_return_pick_up/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I have been a regular customer of Myntra since many years and have never faced and issue. But this time the experience was so bad that I won’t be placing any order from Myntra again in future.

I ordered one product but a wrong product was delivered in place of what I ordered. But that’s not an issue as after writing to customer support they approved the return and pickup was scheduled. Next day the delivery agent picked up the as the usual process.

The issue happened when the I didn’t get a message that item was picked up and next day I received a message that return was rescheduled. We don’t get any return pickup slip from logistics team and we never ask for that as well ( I am going to ask in future every time for sure). So after that I have been following up with their customer support team since past two weeks and eventually they provide a solution that no item was picked up. Now because of no return slip I can’t prove it myself. But as a regular customer I won’t be following up for two weeks unnecessarily. My only option is that to get a CC TV footage for same or catch the delivery agent when he comes there next but both seem very delayed.

Eventually I did loose my money as Myntra is not able to provide any solution to this. Also I don’t have the product as it was picked up .
So please keep in mind so that you don’t get scammed by Myntra :

1. Always take a return slip from pickup agent.
2. Myntra support system is not helpful in these issues.
3. Do make sure there is some sort of proof for return as logistics will deny even after picking up product.

Hope no one else faces this scam from Myntra.

Edit update: Finally after several calls and raising complaint tickets , Myntra processed my refund.
Thank you all for good suggestion to follow up.
Also this is a learning for me as well when I raise a return next time.