SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Sometimes you have to do wrong to set things right
DATE: 2015-05-21
SCORE: 32
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/36r1mp/sometimes_you_have_to_do_wrong_to_set_things_right/

--- POST TEXT ---

two days ago I saw a thread about experience of ebay sellers. Here's mine. TLDR; some guy cheated me on ebay, so I beat the shit out of him. 

This whole thing happened approx 1.5 years ago. I had put up my laptop for sale on ebay. It's cost was some 1.7L and I had put it up for 1.5L. It was almost new, a month old. Due to some problems in family and need of money, I had put it up for sale. So it was at nice price and I was getting some good feedback. I am from Mumbai and a buyer from Bangalore bought it. I promptly shipped it with well packaging and he received it after 3 days. Next 3 days he was quiet and then he raised an Ebay Guarantee Claim against me and claimed me that I have sent a faulty laptop. 

I was new to ebay as a seller. (as a buyer I have 200+ feedback.) and this was my first sale. Ebay asked me to solve the issue with him. 

Since it was well within under warranty, I asked him to contact dell and see what they say. And he denied it saying he has no time and neither he was expecting a faulty laptop. 

After couple of email exchanges I had to give up. So I agreed to take it back provided he bears return shipping costs. he sent me back in same packaging. Except that, it didn't come with my laptop and some broken laptop. I was shocked and I called ebay asap. They took about 2 hours to get on line. Well the rep said send us pics etc. Which I did. 

Buyer claimed he did send my laptop back and there was no mistake from his side. He also shared the courier bill which displayed the weight and volume of package, which exactly matched mine.

Thats when I realized I was cheated and this was rather much elaborative plan from the buyer. I was so down at that moment, I locked myself in a room and cried. Because I knew I am never gonna receive any money from the buyer. or ebay.

Next few days went on exchanging emails. I begged the buyer, begged ebay. But none of them listened. Someone suggested me to contact ebay.com and higher ups. Tweet in social media, but everything was ignored. I started spending time on ebay community forums and this kind of cheating was common to everyone. poeple would just send back empty box, or broken mobiles, or taking HDD etc parts from the laptop etc. It was horrifying to read.

After 10 days (I think), the dispute was ended and ebay sided with buyer and refunded his money back. He had some 50+ positive buyer feedback and I had zero seller feedback. I thought ebay also has seller protection, looks like I was wrong. He also left me a -ve feedback for all this. 

Next, after suggestion of my friends, I filed a case at Cyber Crime Mumbai. Long story, short, nothing good came out of it after a month. 

So I had to let go of it anyway. I badly needed money and I had to take loan from a friend. Thanks to the buyer, he almost cost life of someone dear to me. Later, I called the buyer, when all ended. He was laughing in phone and told me he made a 'chutiya' to me. He was proud about that. He said he had done many times and he will do many times to make profits. Too bad I didn't record that call. 

I almost fell into a depression for this. 1.5L was not a small sum for me. It almost broke me inside. I started drinking more and wasting money. I was becoming a different person. Getting snarky all the time, shouting, getting angry easily etc. That stage of my life was real bad.

After 6 months, I went to Bangalore on official work. And I stayed at my old friend's place. And I shared him entire story. And after couple of pegs, we decided that we gotta teach the buyer a lesson. 

His home was some 15-16Km away from where we stayed. I had his address, but did not know how he looked etc. So we went near to his home, stayed at a nearby playground/park and started observing movements. An hour later a guy came out. I guessed he could be the one. So I called him from my phone he picked it up. I disconnected. Did one more time and spoke with him. I knew his name. So I asked for 'hey, are you XYZ'? He said yes. Then I asked about 'how are you, how is your new job etc', this was to show I had called to a wrong number, but with similar name. Obviously he denied and then I asked 'are you ABC not_his_surname', he denied and said, 'no, I am XYZ real_surname'. So thats how I confirmed the guy. Knew what bike he rides etc. 

I went back to mumbai after my office work was finished. I had made him a call, which was dubious so it wasn't right time to do anything. A month later I came back to Bangalore again on official work. And me and my friend again tracked him. 

one late evening, somewhere around 9pm, we caught him near the playground. It was dark and there were no people at all. We both were wearing helmets and stopped him asking for an address. While my friend was asking for address, I hit him hard and he fell off the bike. Before he could realise what was happening, I dragged him to a corner in the park and started hitting. My friend parked both of our bikes and joined me. 

Then I beat the shit out of him. I was very angry for what he had done. we had brought a cricket bat and I hit his legs till the bat broke. Then I found an iron rod near, and I started beating with that. My friend knew this was getting serious, so he started asking me to stop. I never listened. And that buyer had gone unconscious already. I broke his right leg, beyond repair with the rod. I am sure it almost got separated. And neither I spared the left leg. I knew I had made him a cripple. Then I took a large stone and threw on his right leg. That was it. 

I took all his belongings, so that it looks like an attempted robbery. We ran away. We ran like anything on our bike. next morning I went to my office as if nothing had happened and after finishing work I went back to Mumbai. 

So, am I proud for what I have done? No, certainly not. And to think of it i regret a lot for what I have done. He is a serial cheater and there are many such people. And still I didn't feel it's right, what I did. Still today it haunts me. In my whole life I never had beat up anyone and that incident scares me. The evil inside me had come out. 

I checked his facebook sometime later after months. I confirmed it that he had permanently had become a cripple. I cried that day. 

People like him ruin lives of many people. Go to ebay forums, you will see so many people pulling similar stunt what he had done. So many sellers are in loss of lakhs of rupees. And I still feel bad for what I had done, even though I weeded out a bad apple. And neither there's no way to confirm he stopped doing that.