SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My aunt was taken for everything she had. Over $40,000 gone. They have all of her personal information, and some family information. Where do we go from here? 
DATE: 2024-05-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d1fop6/my_aunt_was_taken_for_everything_she_had_over/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’m in need of some advice, and I’m hoping this post can gain some traction so I can get as much suggestion/help as possible. I’m sorry in advance for the long post, but there’s just so many details. 

Some backstory: My aunt is intellectually disabled: she’s a pretty functional adult, but she’s extremely emotionally immature and she’s just a lower IQ person in general. She has a full time job as a home aid for the disabled elderly and has lived with my parents for about 15 years. She cannot function by herself nor makes enough money to live alone. She’s had a hard life - between an abusive ex-husband, sexual abuse and bullying. She has not had male love/attention in her life since she got divorced 15 years ago. Dating isn’t an easy option because of her intellectual disability and her obesity. 

I’m not sure when the scam started or how it originated. But I believe it was around a year ago. She had just won a settlement, I don’t have many details on that, but it was something like $30-40,000. The first person to find out about the scam was my mother. My aunt brought up that she was seeing somebody. She told my mother that it was a Turkish actor, but refused to give his name because he told my aunt that his identity needed to stay secret between the two of them. My mother knew immediately it was a scam and tried to let her know, but my aunt wouldn’t listen and assured my mother that was not what is seemed. My mother tried to talk to her a few times after the initial conversation but my aunt by this point was CONVINCED this man was the real deal. She showed my mom a voicemail that sounded almost robotic? With a thick, non-Turkish accent. 

Fast forward a month and my aunt called my mother crying, saying she couldn’t make the rent (she pays a very small amount of rent to my mother for living there) my mother proceeded to ask her why she had no money, considering she just got such a large settlement. I guess my aunt got defensive, and said she no longer had it and tried to avoid the question, but she eventually confessed to my mother that she had given $12,000 to her Turkish boyfriend because he was in a desperate situation and was going to lose his home. She wouldn’t disclose to my mother where the rest of the money went, but I’m going to have to guess she was lying a bit about the numbers.. and it all went to him. She claimed that he was paying her back, and had already given her $100. 

My mother has a lot of very young children, and a full time job. She also takes care of her elderly mother with dementia alone, and part of that is because her sister (my aunt) refuses to help with their mother. My mother is not exactly willing to help my aunt, there has also been a lot of in-family fighting between the two. So despite this shocking discovery, my mother did absolutely NOTHING with the situation at this point. All she did was yell at my aunt, causing my aunt to get defensive and tell my mother that all my mother wanted to do was to “ruin her happiness”.

I found out about the scam only last month when my mom mentioned it in passing. I was a confused and wondered why no one in the family seemed to know about this as it seemed like a huge deal! Her $40,000 settlement was GONE. I tried talking to my aunt about it but she was unwilling to talk to me and said she was too busy. I live out of state so it’s hard to get in contact with her, especially since she didn’t want to talk about the situation. I continuously grew more concerned, and it really peaked when we found out that she was looking for her passport for an undisclosed reason.

Three days ago, my husband received a text from her. It said: “hey *insert husbands name here*, I have a friend who needs chemotherapy, and needs to pay for it upfront. Do you know where I can send him to get some money?” 

My husband texted her back and said “Hey Aunt *name*, Let’s talk a little later on the phone, I have a long drive and we can discuss this” 

She responded: “I’m so sorry - that was for my Pastor with the same name. Please don’t tell anybody about this.” 

My obviously concerned husband let me know immediately. We took a trip to visit home for 2 days. she wasn’t willing to talk to anyone else, but my husband was able to sit down with her and get all the details. So here’s the story:

She claimed that she knew he was real. That she loves him and he loves her. They’re in a serious relationship. Apparently, she’s told a few people about this man, and all of them have told her that it’s a scam. She said “ everybody thinks I’m crazy, and they’re trying to make me unhappy”. (This is where her emotional immaturity shows. She seems to think everyone just doesn’t want her to be happy.) She told my husband that this man’s cancer was “basically terminal” he was in the hospital and he needed chemo. She said that she had talked to “both his doctor and security guard” and they confirmed this supposed cancer. She said she could NOT let him die and she needed to get him the money immediately. She told my husband that she promised that she would sell her car in order to get the money for his chemo, and she was working on selling it currently. This is the last thing she has. Her bank accounts are drained. She barely makes ends meet and hasn’t paid rent to my mother in two months. She has thousands of dollars in credit card debt. Financially, she’s falling apart.

My husband begged and pleaded with her, he told her it wasn’t real. But when that didn’t work, he decided to play a different game. He promised her that if this man could prove that he is who he says he is, and he really needs chemotherapy, that he will help pay. This is a gamble my husband was obviously willing to make because he knew for a fact that this man is not who he says he is. So he instructed my aunt to let the “boyfriend” know that he would help pay for the chemo if this man would call him and talk to him on the phone. At first, she protested. She said she didn’t want to make the boyfriend angry because he lashes out and curses her out and gets very upset with her. But she eventually caved and asked him.

He responded immediately, and said that there was “no time” to talk to my husband, and he needed the money right away or else he was going to die. He had the “doctor” text her how serious it was he referred to scammer as my aunts “husband”. My aunt has not mentioned him being her husband, so I’m not sure what’s going on with that. Luckily, but not so lucky, my aunt has absolutely no money left so she couldn’t send anything immediately. 

There were a few other details in the story that obviously didn’t add up, so my husband pointed them out, but there were ALWAYS excuses. Here are the main points: 

1.) Turkish healthcare is free, meaning that if he needed chemotherapy, he would get it at no cost. The excuse for that was: “he has a private doctor that he goes to, so they have to charge him upfront” 

2.) this man claims to have four security guards. My husband brought up the point that security guards need to be paid and he wouldn’t just have them for free, So how can he afford them if he’s struggling so bad?” The excuse was that they’re his friends so they work for free.

3.) My husband told my aunt to ask for a picture of him inside inside the hospital. She told him that she’s never seen a picture of his face outside the internet. Ever. She says that she’s asked him to send one multiple times, but he refuses because he’s a private person. This just shows you how deep my aunt is. Even though this man refuses to send her a picture of his face, she was still so desperate to convince herself that this was real. 

4.) The communication from the “doctor” and “security guard” is only over text. 

5.) If he’s a big Turkish actor like he claims why does he have no money? Apparently they said he got scammed. Bunch of sickos. 

6.) She was told that the cancer was in the abdomen, but the “doctor” he is working with is a neurologist in real life. My husband was able to look him up as they gave the name of a real doctor. 

Apparently my aunt started crying towards the end of the conversation, she said “what if he’s not lying and he dies? It would be my fault.” She said she couldn’t talk anymore about it. She was sobbing. My husband assured her again that all the man had to do was prove he was real, and he wanted to help. 

My husband has been talking to my aunt almost all day for the past couple of days. He’s been playing his cards carefully, and convincing her he will help with this financial situation. She slowly started showing signs of doubt. She believed that if he wouldn’t talk to us, this couldn’t possibly be real. So she finally convinced her “boyfriend” to talk to my husband. 

Long story short, we got a whole run around via WhatsApp on why this man was unable to talk to my husband on the phone. His “security guard” was texting us. My husband pretended to be ignorant, and said how much he wanted to send the money - but he just really wanted to handle it over the phone. Finally, he got a call. The man clearly had an Indian accent. I was recording the call, and my husband asked if he could pay for the chemotherapy with Apple gift cards. The security guard said the hospital could accept gift cards, but they prefer steam gift cards (lmao). This was all the evidence we needed. My aunt may be naïve, but she’s not completely stupid and she knew this wasn’t right. 

It’s been devastating ever since. My poor aunt is broken. She keeps telling us she wants to die, and she has nothing left. She can’t talk about it more than 5 minutes at a time without sobbing uncontrollably. It’s heartbreaking. We don’t even know what to say to her besides the fact that it’s going to be okay. But honestly, I’m not sure if she’s ever going to escape this. The more my aunt tells us, the worse the situation seems, and the less likely it seems that she’s going to be able to have a quiet life. 

She’s now told us that they have everything. She gave them her Social Security card, her passport, her credit card numbers, her home address (my parents address, which is the home of many young children) her drivers license. Literally a scammers dream. She lost EVERYTHING. She said she hasn’t looked at her credit cards yet, but I’m guessing it will be bad. 

We’re doing our best to help her. We are immediately signing her up for an identity theft program. But what else can we do? How can we prevent this from following her the rest of her life? She already says that she’s tempted to text them again. I’m scared if we leave her alone for too long she’s going to get roped back in with some crazy sob story. She wants to believe this is real and I’m worried she’ll trauma block reality. I think even though she knows that they’re scammers, she still feels heartbroken over this persona of a man that doesn’t exist. I just don’t know what to do. Thanks for reading - Any advice is appreciated.