SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Small case loan against mutual funds experience - DO NOT AVAIL
DATE: 2024-07-14
SCORE: 25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1e2iqdj/small_case_loan_against_mutual_funds_experience/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was in dire need of money. Most of the lending apps were for some reason not willing to lend to me. Even if they were lending, it was at 30% APR which was crazy.

I did not want to liquidate my mutual funds as I truly believe that the longer you hold on to them, the more stable the XIRR becomes and with it reduces the chances of you making a decision in haste.

So I got onto the perfect product - Loan against mutual funds. You can pledge your mutual fund units and get a loan against it.

Small case was offering it and they state that the money is credited to your account in just 2 hours which makes sense as this was a secured loan product. I went ahead and did all the formalities.

They put a lien on all my mutual funds.

Now the funny part is that the loan is stuck in "Application under process" since 2 hours.

Why the f\*\*k did they put a lien on my MFs if they were not going to release the money immediately???

Some of these were liquid MFs which I could have liquidated otherwise and got the money I needed.

Now I am stuck confused on whom to talk to. The smallcase people don't have any helpline and even their intercom doesn't work. My chats keep getting deleted.

Meanwhile Bajaj Finance's helpline states upfront that you can only take a new loan or report fraud - NO customer service whatsoever.

I am worried if my loan is stuck in processing forever and my MF units are never released? The lien is marked already. What to do in such a scenario?

My two cents - NEVER TAKE LOAN AGAINST MUTUAL FUNDS FROM SMALLCASE.

EDIT 1 - It has been 12 hours now, no word from either Bajaj Finance or smallcase, but that's expected since it is a Sunday.

EDIT 2 - Some folks are thinking about loan disbursal. However, I must clarify, that I am not at the disbursal stage. That's the final stage. My loan is still "under process" which means that they're still deciding whether to extend me a loan or not and meanwhile they have marked all my units under a lien so I can't sell my MF units either. Now my bigger worry is that if the loan is rejected, when will the lien be lifted? After 1 day? 2 days? 3 days? Never? The whole "get money in 2 hours" that they write on their page is complete and utter BS and I fell for it thinking it would be possible since it is a secured product and they have collateral so disbursal will be faster. I have seen unsecured personal loans disburse faster than this BS product. STAY AWAY FROM IT.