SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: How do I complain/report about Herbalife in India?
DATE: 2024-05-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1ct37a6/how_do_i_complainreport_about_herbalife_in_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

Whom do I complain/report Herbalife to? In India

I’m sick and tired of many new nutrition/health/weight-loss/wellness club all over my area in Hyderabad, India. They’re all competing against one other, stealing each other members and their family but providing more referral perks/ family days/ picnics, etc etc marketing gimmicks, which are apparently mandatory.

They are so predatory, they call you like a school teacher for missing a “health class” everyday, members have to post their drink or what they are eating and join mandatory Heath webinars which is all bogus knowledge that is told by these idiots that memorised it from someone. They can’t answer single question. These mentors are uneducated, one of them was a mason who built my home, they have no idea what’s a calorie or a protein but go on and on for hours about it and these graduate members believe them and want us to join in.

This is destroying families, I’m sick and tired from persuading people away from it but my near and dear are so into this scam already, whatever I try, like showing medical papers, suggesting cheaper better alternatives, I even joined to show them the reality of pricing and commissions they are eating, nothing works, because the predatory club keeps persuading them otherwise. And they’ve definitely lost weight or got healthier for sure coz now they’re eating more protein, walking more steps, skipping meals for Herbalife bs. All of the healthier things that their loved ones suggested before but no, they will only do it after some uneducated brutes take money for them and taunt them to do it while feeding poison to their body and brain!

I want to stop this bullshit, but the ones getting scammed don’t believe anything I say, others around, even their loved ones don’t care as they think its not much big of a deal, they say they’ll just get bored of it and let go. But I’m seeing my loved ones destroy their health, wealth and reputation (by always trying to recruit others) since 2 years now.

I know Herbalife or those clubs are breaking some or the other law, how do I stop them? Whom do I report them to? 
I know Indian courts took action against Amway, there should be some way to start something against Herbalife, but how?

I know their pricing/commission models in detail and I know about the membership models these clubs are running. They sure don’t have any licenses to serve these drinks, or to give medical advice. They surely don’t pay taxes for receiving these monthly memberships fees as I know they earn lakhs per month on it but they still take government ration with white ration card(family earns less than 1 lakh a year).

How do I take it up? Is there anyone else sharing my frustration and agony?