SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Story of my life.got bored
DATE: 2021-05-12
SCORE: 42
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/nal7ya/story_of_my_lifegot_bored/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a long and arduous passage with full of grammatical errors that to be honest, I don’t advise you to read. The 10 minutes you spend reading this can be used somewhere else.I’ve only written this as I didn’t have anything else to do for an hour and no one to ask for help.

Narcissist-A disorder in which a person has an inflated sense of self-importance.
Narcissistic personality disorder is found more commonly in men. 
Symptoms include an excessive need for admiration, disregard for others' feelings, an inability to handle any criticism and a sense of entitlement.

This is what my mother calls my father on a daily basis. To be honest I didn’t know what it meant so I had to google it online and saw the description mentioned above.my father,being a doctor is regarded pretty high in the society. Ever since I could remember I’ve seen my father get respect from passers by and this made me think that being a doctor isn’t that bad. There are people who tell themselves that if they had gone back to the past at a certain point,they would have still made the same decisions.I’m not from this group of people.after seeing all the things I’ve witnessed in this house for the last 4 years, if I ever had a chance to go back,I’d gladly take it and get out of here. This family for the last 4years is basically what I can describe as a coin that is rusted on one side and shiny on the other. The shiny part is what the community thinks of this family.how we are perceived outside.the rusty part is the life inside the house .let’s start with the self proclaimed God of the house,my father. Being the elder son in his family,he always had a deep attachment to his parents. So deep that the bond between my grandmother and him are so close that whatever happens in this house regardless of whether it being a personal matter or not,whether privacy is needed or not,she will get to know anything and everything that happens in this house.there is a positive reinforcement that exists between them, in such a way that whatever he tells,she believes and follows and vice versa. There is no third person ever involved.He is someone who puts his mother and his brother’s family on a pedestal but treats her wife’s family like garbage. Countless times he has addressed my maternal grandparents with words that no should ever hear,in front of me and the rest of us.he uses similar words on the other members in that household as well. Even though on the outside he might seem as the ideal son in law,on the inside his intentions are different.

My father isn’t the same person today that I remember from my childhood. Granted even though his father paid for his education, he had worked initially in his career. He didn’t have to pay for the house he’s living in , and the fact that he didn’t have to pay for my education, were even though considered as ‘wins’ in his life, in reality these were basically seeds that would develop his narcissistic qualities. Having numerous pleasures such as going on countless trips abroad alone, his craving for alcohol,audio,cars,cameras and whatever new tech he catches his eyes on, has infact left him as barely the man he was before.what started out as a family trip 4 years back,I would’ve never thought it will end with the family’s reckoning.if one line was my fathers spending money on his so called hobbies ,another line was my mother’s need to know how the money was being spent,these 2 lines crossed 4 years back. What led was countless fights involving numerous name calling by both parties,fights that led to even physical abuse by by father toward my mother on a number of occasions . This is done in front of their children,as they need an audience for their fights at all times. But outside the house, we’re this fake “happy” family that was living a fake “happy” life. The time I’ve spent with them to try and solve their fights, the amount of times , me a grown adult had to cry so that they would just stop fighting are better not said. He displays his anger by smashing my mother’s appliances and the devices that she uses. And the worst part is , there is no one to control him. For anything. He has told me a number of times that he will do whatever he wants , whenever he wants and that no one can or will control him. In my opinion ,in his mind he thinks of himself as someone who will only live in luxury but in reality I think he has forgotten what life really is. He tries to spend money on whatever he can find to achieve happiness, but he can’t. What he gets every single time is temporary satisfaction. The fact that he gloats about the amount he’s spent on the premium wires he uses to connect his cables, and the experiences he’s had on his numerous trips he’s gone alone doesn’t help anyone. Has he provided for all of us, definitely yes.have we asked much,no. If the fact that he puts cameras all over the house to see if we are going somewhere, installing a tracker in the car to see where we take it, having direct access to me and my mother’s bank account to know how we spend each and every rupee, and eavesdrops on our conversations doesn’t show that he wants to control everything in the palm of his hands,I don’t know what else will. And if you think that we have access to his total expenditure on himself, wherever he’s going abroad or how he’s generating money,sorry. Only he himself has access to that. His mother is always in support of him and thinks he is doing nothing wrong. 

So who can bring justice to this family?who can right the wrongs done here?
And what’s the point of even hanging on?.I’ve told him a bunch of times,if he wants to live a life of a bachelor,none of us will stop him. Just let the outside world know it too.

Schizoid personality disorder -A condition in which people avoid social activities and interacting with others.Schizoid personality disorder typically begins in early adulthood.People with this condition don't desire or enjoy close relationships, even with family, and are often seen as loners. They may be emotionally cold and detached.

This is the term used by my father to describe my mother’s present “condition”. According to him it has been like this since the beginning of their marriage. I struggle to believe that as I’ve seen them happy together. Granted that it is more or less a miracle if i can ever see them happy now,there was a time when I didn’t worry about them. My mother was someone who started her life with dreams. But after her marriage , she was pretty much forced to give up on that and look after the family as you do in Indian households. She had looked after my well being and had done more than what was needed so that both her children could have a good childhood. Even after this, once her children were somewhat grown up , she started pursuing an endeavour on her own. Without much support from the family including us, she was able to make herself a name in our community as one of the top in her field of art. Unlike me father , she gave most of the money she received either to a charity or whatever would help her in pursuing her art. Looking back now , 4 years ago, we were a good family. With my father,mother and myself in respectable positions. But as fate would have it, the 2 lines that I had mentioned earlier just had to intersect and life in this house was never the same in this family. My mother was having constant fights with her mother in law and my father , even though married and spends more of his time with his wife, listens to his mother’s advice regarding everything. Just as I had stated before, my grandmother is the more prominent figure in my father’s life than my mother can or ever will be. What started out as daily fights , this soon progressed to cussing of my mother’s parents and her family and finally led to certain episodes of physical abuse. My father, as a doctor gave the same description of her countless times and that she needed medication. And me being a medical student at the time, blindly agreed. 

Was this true?. To be honest ,I can never be sure. Do I think my mother has a problem, definitely yes. What else do you call someone who locks herself in a separate room, uses a cocktail of her phone,a power bank, the WiFi, the a.c and the bed for the majority of the day. This has happening for almost a year.Everyday she googles articles on narcissism and sends them to me along with long and very poorly written hate speeches about my father. I don’t read them all. In my phone ,the only person on mute is my mother . Not because I don’t want to help her, but I can’t. Even I myself had called my mother names similar to what my father calls her . The situation I’m in is a little tricky to say the least and umpteen messages and calls daily from my mother with complaints about me and my father will never allow me to keep their matter aside and focus on my career. She is very religious but I think at the moment she is relying too much on religion.So much so that she is close to religious fanaticism. Going behind religion and leaving your whole life in disarray is never the answer. She also has a lot of mood swings. My mother who shouts at me and who throws vocal abuse on me and my father in the morning and afternoon may change into a different person in the evening. As in more calm and composed.She might even sit for dinner with my father at night as if the whole fight was an act of some sort. And the fact is there is no reason for this . She can go from laughter to rage to crying in a matter of 10 minutes or so based on what she hears. Lately she has seemed a bit delusional at times, by telling me that her husband and his mother are plotting against her and associating certain animals to certain people. She has also relied on pseudoscientific practices so as to find some meaning in her life. 

I don’t blame her for any of this. The fact that she gets very little respect as well as financial support from her husband,lack of support from her in laws and lack of a proper friends circle not including family members might be the reason . Even though she can call a certain member of the family as a friend, I don’t find it beneficial for her as she still remains locked up inside her room for most of the time.

She always tells me that she is staying together for the kids. Even though I had supported her a lot initially, right now I don’t think this relationship can survive.it’s like a dead animal inside the house or a leg that’s pretty much decayed and needs to get amputated. There is no point in keeping it any longer. Regarding support, I’ve told her that I will always be there for her. She has gone through a lot In this house. I can’t say the same for my father as he’s not been in the receiving end of the suffering as much as my mother.

Useless -not fulfilling or not expected to achieve the intended purpose or desired outcome.

Other than calling my name, I think this has to be the word I’ve been called the majority of the time by both my parents. It’s such a staple word in this household that to be honest I don’t mind it anymore. Granted they do speak much harsher words, but I think I recall this word the most to describe me. After a pretty much uneventful childhood, I had a bit of luck towards the end of school, and was able to enroll in a medical college. After putting in 2 years of hard work for my exam, and sacrificing a lot in the process I was not the same as before. I’d lost a lot of friends because of my pride and I was never able to adjust to the place that I had joined for my medical education. This was maybe because my father had decided where I should study rather than giving me a choice. Even though I was able to study , the fact had always remained in my head that I thought I deserved better . This led to me missing out on a lot of classes due to lack of will and my father had to solve the problems that I had created. You could say the fights between my parents that started in the middle of my higher education could be one of the factors ,but I can’t say for sure if I would’ve changed even if those never took place. The fact that even after becoming a doctor , I still didn’t know what I wanted to become and again lack of will, led me to lose some time. The comforts of my home didn’t help one bit in sharpening my vision for the future. The consistent questions and mockery from both my parents regarding my future was the icing on the cake. I don’t blame them for this though, as I’m a master at procrastination and often take a long time to do simple tasks. On rare instances I do attain a glimmer of inspiration and achieve a goal. The numerous fights between my parents that I had to intervene,the time that I had lost, the tears I’ve shed, the abuse that I was yelled at, has affected me a lot to say the least. I think my sibling did make a better decision in life by not associating with them during their fights. Guess the mental trauma will stick with me. And the fact that I couldn’t share whatever was happening inside the house to anyone of the outside world, since our family has “a good name” was not something easy to live with. Maybe this trauma was what has led me to become what I am now. The feeling of worthlessness is pretty strongly nailed on me by my parents. And I’m at a point where I don’t know when I will be worth something.

All this had led me to believe that I don’t have a place in this house. There is a limit to how much you can fake to the outside world. Even though I lack intent while performing most of my tasks, the task that is at hand in front of me , is looming large. At least once should my actions have some importance. Doing most of the grunt work in the house, made fun of for my incompetence , and striving a lot for a happy family has taken its toll on me. For most homes, an understanding family with interwoven values is a given. For me , I consider this a miracle to say the least. With my father asserting complete dominance over my life,even when I’m an adult had often confused me. I thought it was the same for other households but I was wrong. And my mother’s daily tantrums about my father didn’t help one bit. All of this had led me to take this decision.

According to my mother , I had done something what she considers as the worst thing to ever happen to this family. Something she says that will never be forgiven and she will not allow it under any circumstance. According to my father we belong in a certain “section of the society “ and we cannot stoop low to another level but we must look for associations that are either at the same level or above. These levels, sections has always puzzled me but my grandmother is pretty much a scholar in this field. She can categorically place each family in a locality as per a system that was baffling to me. I thought it was something that existed only in pre independent India but as far as I know it’s still at large. Basically a revamped caste system. There are many that I know of who instead of disregarding this system, use it to form associations and receive financial incentives for the said association. They take these financial incentives because they think they deserve it for being born in the right family. Going back to what my mother said, what she meant was that I had not followed this system and chose a path for my self. Even 1 year back,I’d never thought of doing something like this. I had geared up to be another member of this system. But I had met someone last year that made me change my line of thought . The grievous sin that I had committed was that I had asked my mother if I could have an association with a girl of another religion. I’m sure I need not worry about this in probably any other country . I think most of you will stop reading this here as I know the majority of readers follow the same system. Someone who was in the same profession I’m in, someone who I connected with a lot and was my pillar of support for a year , someone who was from a good family as well. “The worst thing that a son could ever do”. “We will disown you “. Quotes such as these should have made me recalibrate my decision, but I’m fed up of this fake life. I’m sick of looking at a person at the level their family is at or the amount of financial incentive received rather than the person itself. This financial incentive that my maternal grandfather gave my father cause of this system is now what’s ruining this family. I know whatever relationship I had planned won’t work out, but I’m damn well sure I don’t want to be part of this pathetic system.

So my plan right now is first and foremost get out of this house. If you’ve read until here, I’m pretty sure I’m already out of this place. Until I find worth in my life or some sort of redemption for what I’ve faced in there, I won’t be coming back. I’ll promise to be a support for my parents at all times but they should find a solution for their situation. Never fight in front of your children. Never touch alcohol. Never think you’ll achieve happiness by buying everything you set your eyes on. Never choose someone on the basis of their level in the society. Never demean your children. Life in this house has taught me all these ideals.But in the wrong way. I hope and pray that I can make it right one day.

Tl:dr life of an upper middle class guy who has to deal with constantly fighting parents and who fell in love with someone in a different religion.