Reviews All experience227 behaviour171 showroom52 polite39 +6 Sort by Most relevant Newest Highest Lowest Sontosh Chakraborty 8 reviews·1 photo 2 minutes ago NEW Very pathetic experience. The employees working here very unprofessional and cheater. They are fraud and try to trap you as they are heakers. Specialy Mr. Tukai is very unprofessional and dangerous person. I personally suggesting please …More Ila Nandy Majumdar 1 review·5 photos 2 months ago It was a very delightful experience at the new Tanishq showroom at Baguiati. I came to buy a pair of bangle but couldn't resist buying other jewelleries. Anirudhha, Pratiksha and Moumita were as always very cordial and helpful in assisting …More Photo 1 in review by Ila Nandy Majumdar Photo 2 in review by Ila Nandy Majumdar Photo 3 in review by Ila Nandy Majumdar Photo 4 in review by Ila Nandy Majumdar +2 1 Rajrupa Sinha Roy Local Guide·30 reviews·151 photos 2 weeks ago NEW Their collections always amazes us. And their staffs are so friendly, we can't thank them enough. Special gratitude to Shraboni ma'am for inviting me to celebrate my birthday with them. I had a great time. Thank you Madhumita ma'am for your friendly support. Thanks Tanishq for making my birthday special Photo 1 in review by Rajrupa Sinha Roy Mimangsha Dutta chowdhury 2 reviews·2 photos a week ago NEW I just loved shopping with tanishq and all stuffs behaviour is also so good. must go there ☺️❤️they also celebrated my bday in advance ❤️ Photo 1 in review by Mimangsha Dutta chowdhury Photo 2 in review by Mimangsha Dutta chowdhury 1 Sutrishna Khan 4 reviews·10 photos 2 weeks ago NEW It was very delightful experience at the new Tanishq showroom at Baguiati. I came to buy a finger ring. Priya Roy was very polite, gentle and helpful in assisting with the choice of jewellery. Loved shopping at Tanishq. Best wishes to team Tanishq Baguiati. Overall very good experience. Genuinely loved it. ❤️ Pampa Mitra Local Guide·26 reviews·49 photos 6 months ago Always loved being at Tanishq! But it has been a breath taking experience today at the new Baguiaty showroom. Mr. Anirudhya and Miss Pratiksha were as usual warm, welcoming and patient in dealing with an ever curious customer like me. Loved the service and ambience! 5 stars from me! All the best! Photo 1 in review by Pampa Mitra Photo 2 in review by Pampa Mitra Photo 3 in review by Pampa Mitra 4 Susanta Biswal 1 review·1 photo 2 months ago Customer satisfaction and very good behaviour. They Celebrate my birthday with cake cutting. helpful. Photo 1 in review by Susanta Biswal Dr Anisha Local Guide·12 reviews a month ago The store is very friendly and convenient. I have been a customer here since 3 yrs. Sraboni (staff) has been very polite and friendly. She will update with all the ongoing offers and apart from that u get so many gifts on every purchase. Highly recommended. 👍 1 Venkata Lakshmi Mandala 2 reviews 3 days ago NEW We purchased gold jewelry by exchanging old jewelry. The process of gold exchange is very simple and easy. Mr Hari, who handles this process is very knowledgeable and his before melting estimates are very much matches after melting …More Soumyadeep Chakravarty 4 reviews 3 months ago The overall experience in this store has been awesome !! Many thanks to Arpita Mukherjee who had been extremely helpful to assist in all ways to help us get the right product every time we have been there. Very professional and thorough in her dealing each time. Usha Bawali 1 review·2 photos 3 weeks ago NEW Tanishq baguihati showroom is amazing, and staff tanushree has been very polightly and friendly ..thank u Tanishq and all stuff Photo 1 in review by Usha Bawali Photo 2 in review by Usha Bawali 1 Jaya Banerjee 4 reviews·9 photos a week ago NEW Excellent attitude of Aniruddha. One of the most amazing staff I have ever met, very kind and gentle human being and helped us in each and every step of my purchase. Sejal Gupta 1 review a month ago Wonderful experience with Tanishq. 1st time visit love the design and quality. Hosted by Pratiksha very nice and lovely lady. Please guys do visit lots of collections and offers. 5 star service. Well done. Prasenjit Bhattacharya 4 reviews·12 photos a week ago NEW Good location & lucrative ambience. Very much cooperative & polite behaviour of Mrs.Sraboni is very highly appreciated. Again will visit this store. Sayantan Sarkar 1 review 3 months ago Purchased jewellery for my mom and wife on the occasion of my mom’s birthday. The experience was fantastic. Kudos to Ms. Pratiksha for helping us out with the selection..After the purchase they also surprised us with a birthday cake. It was …More Surajit Choudhury 5 reviews 2 months ago All staffs are very polite and got excellent support from them. We never had such a pleasant shopping experience in the past. We specially thanks to the staff Suita Chanda who help and guide us in entire shopping. Her politeness and …More 1 DEBTANU CHANDA Local Guide·8 reviews·73 photos 3 months ago The overall experience in this store has been great so far !! Thanks to Sudipa Saha who had been really helpful in assisting in all ways possible to help me choose the right benefit and right plans, right products every time I have been …More Sourav Basu Local Guide·36 reviews·53 photos 2 months ago Excellent store, great ambience, very professional behaviour by Pinaki Dutta. He explained and showed all designs very patiently. Awesome experience buying at Tanishq Raghunathpur. Highly recommended Amrita Singha Local Guide·115 reviews·20 photos a month ago It was really a nice experience shopping there. Ms Deepa was very good in handling her customers. Bought a beautiful Bangles amounting ₹97000.00 from that Store. Overall experience was very good, hope to visit there again. 2 Chandan Kumar 12 reviews 3 weeks ago NEW Service is outstanding and all the staffs are cooperative. Nice collection of gold and diamond jewelleries. Plea visit. Service provided by Sipra is too good. She explained about the product very well . They celebrated my birthday 🎂 Priyanka Mukhopadhyay 1 review a week ago NEW Mr. Singh attended and guided us in an extreme good manner. I am very very happy with the purchase and assistance of him poulomi mahanti 1 review a week ago NEW Great collection with good ambience. Special thanks to Madhumita Saha and staffs for being an excellent salesperson. Highly recommended Dean Chakravarty 2 reviews 2 weeks ago NEW One of the best Tanishq stores in Kolkata. Wonderful designs with awesome staff! The trust of Tatas blended with service, smile n support from Ms. Indrani, is what makes your shopping experience a delightful one!! Shaivi 3 reviews 2 weeks ago NEW Amazing staff especially pinki malakar so sweet caring polite frndly and patient all stafs were very patient nd put my earings on with a lot of effort and care and patience will definitely be coming here every time not pc chandra Sontosh Chakraborty 8 reviews·1 photo 2 minutes ago NEW Very pathetic experience. The employees working here very unprofessional and cheater. They are fraud and try to trap you as they are heakers. Specialy Mr. Tukai is very unprofessional and dangerous person. I personally suggesting please dont visit there and purchase any gold. I am sharing my experience as mentioned below mail which drafted to tanishq higher authority. Hi, I can't wait further as I have already wait for more than 10 months after GH investment. Now I want my precious money back with interest immediately without any further delay. I have been already misguided by your tanishq VIP Road branch, Kolkata, employee name Mr. Tukai, He has insist me to do the investment on your tanishq GH plan. But as per his commitment i him and done that investment but i have not received any benifit on this. Today I visited the tanishq, VIP Road Kolkata branch and when I asked for my money back as I want to withdrawal than Mr. Tukai behaved very roughly and threading me said that I will not get my money back in return. I was totally surprised and asking him why he is behaving like this than Mr. Tukai also said that for one dissatisfied customer tanishq not bother and the customer can't do anything. It's really very unfortunate and also not appreciated. Mr, Tukai shouted on me with his colleagues and try to dominate me as I was inside the tanishq premises. Please kindly check and do something on urgent basis as I have honestly investment my hard earn money to tanishq. Today I will visit to my nearest police station to raise this issue. I will also ask local newspaper to share this experience with public forum. However please kindly refund my entire money with interest immediately. Best Wishes, Sontosh Chakraborty Mobile Number [protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)