Hi Purchases Nokia 55 inches 4k TV through Flipkart on[protected] While installation, service man from FlipKart/Jeeves, I purchased extended warranty for 3 years. On 16th Feb 2022, I logged a complaint regarding some white patches all over my TV screen. On 18th Feb 2022, my TV was picked up by Jeeves executive. Claim ID is CLJWP[protected] They told me that my TV will be repaired and will be deliver in 4-5 days. Then after 4 days, I called Jeeves customer care to check the status and they told me to wait for 14 days. So waited for few more days. On 4th March, I again called them for the status update and they told me that my TV is repaired and they will install my TV on 6th March. On 5th March, I got a message from Jeeves that “Your LED TV Panel is available and they replace it and will update me on 11th March” Then I called again on same day and customer care told me that, my TV back panel was not repairable and they have arranged a new panel for my TV and they would need 7 more days to replace that. Then I wrote an email to Jeeves and some members ( got email IDs from internet ) and I got a call from Delhi head Mr Harsh and he said, my TV is already repaired and they will deliver it on next day. I was surprised as Head of Delhi service is saying something else and everyone at Jeeves service is saying something else. And finally, on 8th March, around 1 PM, they installed my TV back. While, I was using the TV from last 2 years, I was facing some issues with the TV. The quality was not good and there was an audio video lag in some apps. I called Mr Harsh directly and ask him to get it checked. On 9th March, (Today) he sent an engineer to check my TV. Surprisingly, in less than 1 minute, not touching the remote, he said “Sir, your TV is perfect as per me” You might have wrong doubts. I asked him to check the serial number. Then surprisingly, the serial number on the TV and on my invoice was miss-matched. I was shocked to see that they have deliver wrong TV to me. What if, I missed checking the serial number? I could have fall under more trouble in future. Anyways, he admitted that the TV which was deliver to me is not mine. And in few hours, they again picked the TV back. Now, I’m wondering, if they did something with my TV and they are just hiding thing with me and trying to give me an old TV which was not mine. How can I trust them now? I need my money back or brand new TV. I don’t trust these people anymore. This is totally a huge warranty Scam by Flipkart & Jeeves Consumer Services. They are cheating in the name of Extended warranty Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (10)