SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Problem of generalization - the reason why I think social media is toxic in context of Bengaluru
DATE: 2024-09-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1fa76do/problem_of_generalization_the_reason_why_i_think/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don't really understand the reason why people get into the levels of defaming whole Bengaluru or do racist attack on Kannadigas just based on some of the degenerate incidents happening across the city. 

In every case, the victim uploads a video on social media to seek justice and I appreciate this. The video gets retweeted and becomes viral and then it turns into pure racisim. The movement which begins from that should be a movement to seek justice and not a movement of propaganda and hate. Only few accounts tag the police and ask for justice while 90% of them just use it to defame the state, language or the natives here. It's no more about justice but it is about pure racism. 

I'll tell you some instances - a guy who is from IT cell of the current union Government calls it - "Rahul Gandhi's mohabbat ki dukhan". A guy from UP retweets it like - " kannadniggas and their culture". Some random guy says - "Saar we are educated Saar". Some guy says - " All IT companies should move out of shithole Bengaluru". I mean, how are these even related? In fact lot of Kannadigas on Twitter and on reddit too called for the arrest of the auto driver. Nobody human supports the assult on a woman and it is very henious. 

My question is simple, why people target the whole community? Now you see today, there is a huge backslash on Twitter by Kannadigas against those who were racist yesterday. 

What is the result? More divide. Most of the liberal Kannadigas who were liberal are now becoming conservative, I see that as a problem and I'm afraid of this change. It doesn't affect Kannadigas much but it affects the economy of India overall. You need to understand India lags behind in manufacturing, the only thing we have is a strong service sector and Bengaluru is in the forefront of this growth. 

So my solution is simple - let's address the actual issues instead of targeting a specific race or a community. We can do it better together and we can address actual issues.