SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need legal advise. Sort of Honeytrapped
DATE: 2025-04-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1kbgjdb/need_legal_advise_sort_of_honeytrapped/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a married 37 year old man. You are free to judge me for sort of cheating on my wife but still I hope someone can give me some sound legal advise.

Story- My relationship with my wife has been in troubled state for the last 5-6 years, but we are living together for our kid. I have never cheated on my wife ever, haven't been involved with anyone physically.

Due to this personal stress at home and work stress, I started to go out to clubs on every alternate weekends to spend the night listening to music and meeting new people.

There I met a lady, 6-7 years younger than me, she used to sit alone and felt lost. She used to dance with few guys to earn some quick bucks( yes that was the norm in that club).. but she was never too involved in the dance with those guys.. 
I started talking to her thats the start of her completely false story), she told me that she has 2 kids and her husband is a drunkard who is jobless and beat and torture her.. To feed for her kids she visit this club and depend on the tips for dance or for few hours of company, given by guys like me..

We exchanged numbers and started to exchange odd messages during the daytime.. I started going to that club more often even during weekdays to meet her and spend few hours talking to her.. this kept on going for good 4-5 weeks.. I shared a lot of things with her.. Gifted her few things like shoes, watches etc and used to bring gifts for her 2 sons as well.. She used to be accomapnied by her driver to the club as told by her..

One afternoon I got a message from her that the daughter of her driver is seriously ill and need to be hospitalized and if I can help his driver with some money.. Initially I offered her that I can come there and get the baby admitted to any hospital they want but she said the driver will manage hospitalization etc.. So as requested I gave her 25k.. 

And we kept on meeting in club.. I asked her out for a movie and lunch with kids but she refused saying she doesnt like going out and I respected that and never asked her out again..

After few days, she said her mother in law is not well and she needs 40-50k for her treatment and believing her I gave it to her..

After few days, her driver told me how much stress she is in due to a high interest loan she has taken from someone of 2.5 lacs.. I helped her repaid that..

Few weeks later, she told me that her driver is sellng the cab he drives and she wont be able to come to the club if the driver sell his car as she only trust this driver.. Driver need loan of 1.5 lacs else he will sell his car and I am being a dumbass gave 1.5l to the driver as a loan without any interest..

In between I gifted her few items like a gold chain and an iphone.. and realized I have started developing romantic feeling towards her.. I told her that I love you and she responsed back with a love you too..

Fast forward few weeks later, one of the patron coming in the club knew the reality of this girl and her so called driver.. The driver was actually the husband of this girl and this was a scam played by them on innocent fools like me to first get into an emotinal relationship telling all fabricated stories and then milking the money..

I confronted the girl and she said that driver is not her husband but I did some search on their fake accounts on instagram and found their photos together..(wish I have done this earlier)..

I made her kicked out of the club forever and filed a report at the nearest police post, but policement told me this is a civil case of money related matters and as I have given money by myself they can't do anything.. they did call the girl to the police chowki and aksed her to return the money but she refused and told me that she will file false 354 and 376 cases against me(luckily I have the recordings of those)..

The drive cum husband ran away from the situation and never met me again..

I have filed a civil case for money recovery of 50% of the amount that I gave her(close to 5 lacs).. I filed that case as a defence against her threats of filing false criminal cases against me..

money is not that important for me.. but the broken trust and trauma of such a scam has left me disturbed.. If I leave them they will do the same with someone else too.. So, I want advise can I file a criminal case of cheating against them and put atleast the husband behind the bar? They keep on blackmailing me with cases and sending out details of this affair to my wife and family.. I am ok to confess this to my wife and apologise.. My intention was never for physical relation with this girl and I felt emotionally attached.. But yeah I did wrong with my wife and I am ready for any punushment that my wife gives me.. everyone deserve a second chance.

But question is how do I teach these scammers a lesson so that they dont repeat this in future and I can get some peace..

Pls feel free to judge my character but please give your valuable advise!