SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: How to proceed? (Long post)
DATE: 2024-02-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ahn1nl/how_to_proceed_long_post/

--- POST TEXT ---

My cousin (32M) is mentally not a matured person. He got this genetically from his mother, according to doctors, she's shouldn't have been married in the first place, but you know those days! even though he's 32 (physically), his brain growth is not even 15. Passing 10th class was a big achievement for him after 2-3 attempts. He couldn't study anymore due to learning disability. His family was always in a chaos which resulted in him not getting required special care and support since childhood. 

He couldn't differentiate between good and bad. People take advantage of him and use him for money etc. He tells lies, steals money, can't ride a bike properly. If anyone family doesn't give him money or bike, it'll be a fight in house. currently he helps his dad in their fabrication shop. Now he's grown up (physically), and his parents becoming old, they couldn't control him. They can't keep a watch on him 24 hours or lock him down in the house. They try to control him as much as they can, but sometimes it's just out of their hands.

Now the big headache is, he's seeing some girl. This is not the first time, it happened earlier with few other girls. As I said earlier, he's mentally like a 15yr old. He thinks he's in love, imagines the other person truly loves him. Obviously they take advantage of him, extract some money, use him and ditch him. Knowing his condition, no sane girl would love him seriously. When enquired about this girl, she is having 2 kids, divorced recently and got married again recently. Now she's honey trapping him. We tried to talk to him but he doesn't listen, I know mental therapy/help is what he needs. But his family is already in big financial problems. Somehow they are planning for it.

Meanwhile we don't want him to get into any trouble. As I said, we don't want him to go fuck around, get beaten by that girls family/husband or get her pregnant or she puts a fake case on him, It'll be a big mess. From a legal standpoint, how can we protect him? Can we go and give a complaint in ps on that girl and provide his medical documents. Like he's not a matured guy, please stop seeing him, If anything happens, it's not our responsibility. Unfortunately if something happens, we don't want him/his family in any trouble.