SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Most normal Scams I have encountered
DATE: 2024-04-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1byvc54/most_normal_scams_i_have_encountered/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi!

As the Title suggests. 

1. Telegram Scam:
So someone contacts you from nowhere and it's usually scammers from the channels that you have joined. If you don't have picture on Telegram they usually don't know if you are Miss Or MR, these people can be everything from "Hi I am interested" in you, I have a business advice like crypto and then some. 
Remember everytime you talk with an individual you don't know, assume it is a scam. 
If they call you SIR or MAM, it's an Indian user LOL. 

2. WHATSAPP Scam:

Usually an unknown number contacts you and asks for someone, then apologizes about it. You can have fun with this because they are easy to tell. Usually there is girl photos and they start talking serious. I always tell them to come to my country so I can F**k them. If they don't back off, after that I just say Put on your camera and they bail as quickly as possible. Sometimes they get pissed off because they spend time on you, but you already knew it was a scam and didn't leave any details at all. 

3. Random Numbers calling you, even from other countries:

This happens now and then and it is obvious. Happening to me every 2-3 months. Call comes from another country and it can be whatever. It can be an Indian trying to call from "Microsoft". You have to remember also if you have joined recently any website or anything like that, it can happen that they sold your number to someone. One more thing is that Linkedin can also have alot of scams like the Indian scams, they try to contact you as recruiters and tries to gather information so you need to be careful. 

All in all, these are the most normal Scams I have encountered and of course I have never been scammed. 

One thing that I always filter out is the Email Scams. They can be the worst and if you recieve a Email that is meant to be from a website or company. Always check the Email adress. For example: Maybe you get a email from McDonald's with McDonalds email. Maybe the scammers will use Macdonalds instead in the email to trick you. If you start seeing these type of emails coming often, change your password immediately on your email, because it can be that someone has access to your email and tries to lure you to give out details that they need. 

Well good Luck everyone.