SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Met an Indian astrologer online who claims we are a perfect match
DATE: 2024-10-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gaqv93/met_an_indian_astrologer_online_who_claims_we_are/

--- POST TEXT ---

I think I’ve fallen victim to a romance scam but can’t believe it could really be true…

I guess I should state that I am in my late 30s and live in NY, USA. I’ve recently moved here within the last couple years, and I’ve been single for many years prior to this move. I don’t have a high income job, I don’t even have a car, and barely make my rent and bills every month. I don’t have time to date and wasn’t looking for it either. I have never been married, never intended to, no kids, no pets, no siblings or close contact with family, it’s just me and I’m okay with figuring my life out on my own.

I recently joined an online community through instagram for spiritual wellness, where I was connected with several new people. I never thought much about adding friends or professionally talking with others since my social media only consists of me following groups and businesses. I don’t post anything personal online, no pictures except my profile picture that’s at least 5 years old now honestly.

In that community was an astrologist from South India who is 32 years old and he also works in the medical field. He was very kind and informative of things that go on in the group, and even offered me a free astrology reading, which he went very in depth, and never charged me for. Only later he respectfully asked if it was okay to share his chart with me, which showed we were actually an excellent match for marriage (which I thought was extremely forward with his approach), but I agreed to talk with him more. We exchanged WhatsApp information and have been talking for the last 8 months.

During this time, we have video called and he does live with his parents and brother, who I’ve spoken to in passing but never an actual conversation with, but we talk every day. The time difference works perfectly with how our work schedules line up, so I can talk when I get off work and he’s getting ready for bed. He is incredibly sweet, and the most consistent and caring man I’ve ever talked to. I have questioned his intentions so many times and he has always been immediate to answer and provide proof without me even asking for it… he seems 100% real and genuine, but something in the back of my mind keeps warning me that this isn’t real.

From early on, he has been very forward with intentions to marry a woman, but not adamant on having children or following a strict Hindu religion. He has mentioned on several occasions, exactly how to get married (with me coming to India, spending time there, getting married, staying for a while, then maybe coming to USA) but he fluctuates on going to USA and not. He wants me to live in India so he can be close to his family, but promises that we can live in a separate home than them, claiming that his younger brother takes the responsibility of living in home with them, that he only must continue to help his parents financially. Which is fine, I have no arguments there, and it never was an argument or disagreement. I just found it so alarming how he already had this very detailed plan of exactly how we would get married, and then the mention of coming to USA.

Fast forward to yesterday. I haven’t slept because I feel like I’m still shaking in my bones. We have never exchanged money, but I did gift him a present for his birthday back in June. He insisted to send me a present for mine, and because his Aunty makes clothing he wanted to send me a handmade saree. I was so hesitant to send him my address, but he insisted and I just got the package yesterday. He said that he included something special with the clothing and that it was made at his aunt’s home and then he packaged it at his own house. And I know this sounds so weird, but I guess I was expecting the clothing to have some kind of a home-like smell? Only I got it in the mail, and it’s a beautiful saree, bright in color with gorgeous detail, just like how you’d buy at the store, smells like a warehouse too. And there was no letter or anything with it like he said there would be… and the address he claimed to live at was NOT the address of the person who sent the package, neither was the name or photo ID included with the shipping information.

I was standing at my dining room table shaking. Was this man who I’ve been talking to a scam?

I of course look up who this person who sent this package, and it is someone from his same town, just a few years older than him. But there isn’t much to his profile… when my Indian friend messages me later asking if I received the package, I just send him the pictures of that guy and the saree, telling him it’s beautiful but who is that guy? He says it must be the mail courier, that they must have repackaged the item and that his letter was lost in transition… this could be true, but I’m still extremely uneasy about it. He asked for a picture of me wearing the saree because his aunt wanted to see it on me and if he could send the picture to her… this saree could be perfectly stitched together, but from the looks and smell it does not seem handmade to me. I didn’t say anything to him about that though, I just thanked him for it.

He’s mentioned back and forth about me living in India and us having a wonderful life there, and then saying how we could live in the US. Neither one of us has been to either country, neither one of us has any kind of money or status. He claims to be a lonely guy looking for love, but if you only saw a picture of him, you’d wonder how someone like him has any troubles with the ladies at all. He’s average height, but strong with silky long hair, and has the charm and confidence to conversate with anyone. He admitted to having a girlfriend from Greenwich, UK. That they spoke for a year and she came to visit him, but it wasn’t a match despite their online connection. He swears up and down that he’s still a virgin, but I do not believe that either. His family knew about that girl, but did not approve because of their age difference. Him and I are only 6 years apart where she was 10 years older than him, and he also says they simply were not a match, that it was very uncomfortable with her in person. Who knows. He could be telling the truth, maybe she really is the only one… I doubt it and so do my friends and family, but he has been very consistent with everything he’s ever said to me, so who knows?

His parents do not know we are romantically involved, and neither to mine to an extent, they all probably suspect but we haven’t said anything. Lately he has been very, very pushy on me coming to India and marrying him. He says in order to build trust we have to be involved with something together and he’s made an instagram page for astrology readings and sent me the login information because he wants me to be a part of it with him. It links to his website and he keeps the money (he charges pennies for readings) it’s never been about money, he just wants me to trust him. He does everything he can to immediately answer my questions and stop me from overthinking or worrying but I still have doubts… and I just don’t know what to think about all of this.

To be honest, he has never asked for money or even hinted about wanting, needing, desiring money, but has mentioned how much money can be made in US. And it seems manipulative to me with the back and forth on strictly against going to US, and then wanting to go if we are married and he can get a visa. And I’ve never spoken to anyone romantically from another country before, so I had no idea the process, but he was quick to inform me, so it definitely raised some concern in my mind. I think he does want to come to US to work, but I think he might also be looking for love. If he wants both, and it’s a genuine connection, I’d be happy to be his wife. If he wants to use me to come here and then treat me like a used thing with no care, then I want him to stay away from me.

Has anyone else ever dealt with a similar situation? I feel so in the dark here and alone… I want to believe this kind of connection and love is real, but in the back of my mind I’m really worried it’s not. Is that my intuition or my fears talking?