SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: MIL Romance Scam
DATE: 2018-10-09
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/9mkdlr/mil_romance_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone! So I posted in r/legaladvice about a day ago but just discovered this sub so I thought it would be perfect to post here and get some feedback. My mother-in-law is involved in a romance scam. So, it all started around June of this year when my SO and I found out she was seeing a man who was stationed overseas as a general in the army. He has "tons of money" in an account in NY but can't get to it since he is stationed in Africa. SO told her it was a scam from the beginning and she agreed, we never never heard a word about it after that..until now.

A few weeks ago it came out that shit has hit the fan, MIL is still seeing this guy and has sent all her money to him. she has defaulted 2 months on her rent and we don't even want to know the extent of her other bills. We are going to make her late rent payments right so she will have a roof over her head for, at least, another few weeks. She is still in denial, she has freaked out on anyone who has confronted her about it. 

A little about her: she hasn't hit 60 yet and lives over 1,000 miles away from us, she has always been emotionally and financially unstable. We have helped her out before to the tune of $7,000. She is on state disability and food stamps and has been since I've met her about 12 years ago. She has my SO half brother living with her, he is 17, doesn't have a license and has been "homeschooled" AKA not schooled his whole life. She claims he has a ton of mental problems that he does not. He's so brainwashed that he will probably be living with her until she dies and then probably end up in jail. 

About this guy: He is a General in the Army and stationed in Africa. He has a 3 year old and his wife has died. He lives in Phoenix and is ironically named after a famous Indian painter from AZ, since this is all that comes back when I google him. His nanny raises his daughter while he is overseas. He looks around 30 years old from the pics I've seen. He was supposed to come visit her (that's why she took out a personal loan guys..even though she is behind on her rent) this week but unfortunately got into a car accident on his way to the airport and was in a coma until yesterday. 

We have contacted Adult Protective Services and they said if a case is made they will send someone out to evaluate her. If nothing is found from the eval they will drop the case. She recommended we call SSI and report her for fraudulent spending but I'm afraid if we do that, we are all screwed because she loses her check that she needs to pay her bills. Anyone have any advice? I am more than willing to do anything to put this behind us and go on living our non-crazy life.