SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: I wrote a poem on India. Give your honest feedback
DATE: 2021-11-06
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/qo0a5j/i_wrote_a_poem_on_india_give_your_honest_feedback/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yes , I’m an Indian
 Brown skinned ,black eyed , Jet black , lustrous hair with a tinge of oil
 Scrawny and impoverished I’m , yet with an indomitable spirit and a perpetual smile plastered across my face.
 
 Yes , I’ve been in the limelight for quite some time , the land of snake charmers , fakirs1 and what nots. From fantasies of Kipling2 , sewed into fables of ‘Mowgli’ and ‘Bhageera’ , That land of untold riches and inexpressible glory of the yesteryear , that Colombus3 had to end up in , A land that’s vyes to make itself great again.4
 
 Seven odd decades or so old , we undertook a tryst with destiny5 , at every turn we met with scoffs and disdain ; scepticism and pity poured in from the naysayers , how can a nation so divided stand ? For the idea of ‘An Indian ‘ was novel , was new , was something inconceivable at that time , where we stood divided along the lines of creed , caste and colour where at the forefront , stood a man draped in a loincloth “Was he the doctor or was he the saint ?“ 6 I do not know , ‘Maha –atma or so he was known ; character subject to aspersion , deemed by Ms Roy,the God that breathed ‘The God of Small things’
 
 The deft hands of a lawyer: a novice cartographer ; drew a pair of lines , to the east and west7 , a line of demarcation; men and cattle , hands held prayerful longing for a miracle , an exodus , A sight frightful , Ravi , Beas , Chenab and Jhelum bled that night , when the queen’s sovereign sword touched upon his shoulder’s thrice and he was addressed ‘Sir Radcliff”8 , it didn’t hurt half as much for him as it did for millions on that day.
 
 Kesh , Kanga , Kachera, Kara and Kirpan9 , they adorn themselves with. “Never bow to tyranny” a conviction they hold strong. They were wronged from Mughals to Jallianwala Bagh. Political opportunism10 overtook and the idea of unfairness was sowed into the minds of masses. On that unfortunate night , a blue star11 loomed over the sanctum sanctorum. The memories haunts us of the stomping , avenging and vengeance.
 
 Over the years , you and I , have stood witness to the test of time , to the character and perseverance of this great nation , it’s pluralism and multiplicity, men have come and men have gone , men have tried to tear this nation apart , with hurtful words and resentful verses.
 
Men with malice and vileful interests ; undertook a rath yathra12 “Jo Hindu hit ki baat karega wahi desh par raaj karega “ they chanted in unison “Pakistan Zindabad Hindustan Moradabad“Tensions sparked in Ayodhya, the birthplace of dieties and devotees , ‘Mandir wahi banegi. 
 
Mehta’s delusional Dalal street , 2G to Bofors , lest the truth shall prevail , ‘Sathyam’13 it is known regionally: an oxymoron, I suppose. Scam that tainted us in shades of dark.
 
Talking about oxymorons and contradictions, was Mohammed Aqlakh a good man or not ? I don’t know .. The poor lad and his child of 8 years was lynched on the mere assumption that they had beef.14
 
Let’s just leave it here with an abrupt end and some food for thought eh ? 
 
Footnotes
 
1. Even as of 2016 , India is stereotyped as that land of snake charmers and fakirs. The exotic east of spirituality , dacoitry and uncouth human beings. British Broadcasting Corporation ran a show , which attracted some heat and the link is given below.
2. Rudyard Kipling the famed colonial Indian author who gave birth to characters like Bhageera and Mowgli in his magnum opus Jungle Book , where precinct is set in India.
3. Christopher Colombus was an Italian seafarer and navigator. Designated with the task of finding and establishing shorter trade routes with India and Europe. In the due process Colombus ends up discovering the ‘new world’. The contemporary U.S.A. 
4. ‘ Make America Great Again’ was the signature slogan of 2016 presidential election used by Democratic candidate Donald Trump. It resonated with the masses of once flourishing cities of industrial belt like dtroit , which as of today is crumbling under economic stagnation.
5. ‘Tryst with destiny’ is a piece of oration delivered by Jawarhalal Nehru on the eve of independence. It symbolises the culmination of freedom struggle and essence of non violent struggle against the british.
6. Doctor and The Saint is a 200 page long critical essay , which was received under great acclamation by the Indian academia , that casts aspersions on M.K Gandhi’s character.It was authored by Arundathi Roy ; the recipient of man booker prize for her magnum opus ‘God of small things’. 
7. Cyril Radcliffe was an English lawyer that was designated with the task of demarcating a line of international boundary across the subcontinent for India and Pakistan. Modern historians are critical at large of the manner and method of demarcation. The process of demarcation had to be carried out in a month’s time and hence there was hastiness involved and no prior knowledge. This resulted in an suboptimal political demarcation that even today leaves both the countries on a political turmoil.
8. Roughly 14 million people were displaced and thousands of men dead. However subsequently in the following year , Radcliff was knighted by the Queen in 1948.
9. 5K’s ; Kesh , Kanga , Kripan , Kachera and Kara are 5 characteristic symbolisation of the Sikh faith.
10. Sikh expatriates were the first to moot for an idea of a separate Sikh state called Khalistan. This was advertised in 1981/16/ Aug in New York Times by an expatriate Jagjit Singh Chauhan. 
11. At the peak of Khalistani movement , separatist activists like Bhindranwale seeked asylum in the sanctum sanctorum of Sikh faith ,Golden temple. Indira Gandhi the then prime minister , with her hands crossed later with an iron hand ordered ‘Operation Blue Star’ for recovering political stability. Gandhi was assassinated by her bodyguards for defiling their sanctum sanctorum and this resulted in anti sikh riots in 1984.
12. Ayodhya a land of disputes. In a land designated the Ram janmbhoomi , Lord Ram’s birth place.There was a masjid standing at the same disputed place. This resulted in disputes between factions of Islam and Hinduism. Later L.K Advani , undertook a chariot procession with the slogan . “Jo Hindu hit ki Baat karega , wahi desh par raj karega”.
13. Harshad Mehta was a fraudulent con man that operated at Bombay Stock Exchange in ‘90’s. The scam rocked the Indian capital market and stained our credibility in the Asian market. Similarly , in ’09 Satyam was a computer company that was brought into light for falsifying their accounts.
14. In ’15 , at Dadri in Uttar Pradesh Aqlakh and his son was lynched to death on the assumption of stealing and slaughtering a cow. However later , prima facie evidence found that the meat he was storing was mutton.