SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Phishing Scam 2 yrs old. Case was closed without any resolution. Can we do anything now ?
DATE: 2025-04-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1kbkwno/phishing_scam_2_yrs_old_case_was_closed_without/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone,
About 2 years ago, my wife lost around ₹1 lakh in a phishing scam. It followed a very common modus operandi — someone impersonating a BSES official called her, shared a link via WhatsApp, and convinced her with alarming urgency to act. My wife, though well-educated, is a simple and kind-hearted person, and unfortunately, she fell for it. The scammer drained money from both her bank account and Paytm wallet once she clicked the link.

We acted immediately: called the bank to freeze the account (but I remember it took so long to get through to an executive till that time more money was drained), went to the police station and the cyber crime cell, filed an FIR, raised complaints with the bank, Paytm, and even escalated to the RBI’s Banking Ombudsman. We even had call recording of the scammer. After few months of follow-ups, the case was prematurely closed by banks. I think we were just told the usual — the money had been moved to multiple small accounts and was untraceable.

Eventually, after exhausting avenues and going through mental harassment, we gave up. Sometimes, for the sake of your own peace, you just have to let go. Although in hindsight I feel we should have gone harder.

You might ask, if we've moved on, why bring this up now?
Because even after all this time, I still see the pain and guilt on my wife's face every few months in conversations that are related to any kind of scams etc. It was not a small amount anyway. And it hurts me as her husband. She made a mistake — and we paid for it. I know she’ll never fall for something like this again, but it still bothers me that I can't free her from the guilt completely. 

So my questions are:

1. Has any common man ever actually recovered money lost in such scams in India?

2. Based on our past complaint and documentation, is there any point or way in re-opening or escalating the case again?

Thanks for reading. Would appreciate any insights.