SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Law student in penultimate year of law college, seeking general advice.
DATE: 2024-06-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dcqii2/law_student_in_penultimate_year_of_law_college/

--- POST TEXT ---

Greetings,

 
I'm not sure if this counts as legal advice, but I am seeking specific advice from legal professionals, albeit, on a non-legal topic. 

As the title suggested, I am a law student in my 4th year at a top-tier private college, a move I greatly regret as it doesn't feel like money well spent, at least not yet. 

I have a fair bit of solid internship experience at this point and have a good grasp of civil procedure and other niche areas where I pictured myself building a career in these last few years, such as data protection, TMT and even IP. Although, I have a few assessment internships lined up this year, I can't shrug this feeling of being mediocre.

Let me explain, the college I'm in puts a great degree of emphasis on making it into a tier 1 law firm, so much so that, I've witnessed my friends cry their eyes out after not receiving a perfect grade in their 3rd Year forensic science exam as it might stifle their ability to get an Anand and Anand internship. I get the appeal of such places, it's great pay and you get to work alongside some of the best talents in the country, but it's not the kind of law I joined this college to do. Law firm work often seems to be just overpaid clerical work with a few interesting days in between. Of course, I'm aware of litigation teams within firms and my next internships will be as part of those, so the jury's out on that as a valid career move. 

What sucks is that I feel as if I'm in too deep on this route to now switch, I have a fairly good chance of securing a well-paying firm job but I'm feeling the jitters now. Our seniors, even the brightest ones are struggling to find jobs that match their skills and expectations as most firms are in a hiring freeze and no one knows when it might end. 

Before I begin with my questions, I need to provide further context. I joined law school to become a judge and planned to take the judiciary exam after college then an encounter with a young magistrate completely changed my viewpoint, the letters written by a female magistrate which leaked last year solidified my choice to avoid the exam. I leaned completely towards a firm job as that's just what everyone around me did and it seemed safe. But, i still have this longing in my heart to follow my initial goal of Judgeship.

Now, I have two simple questions.

1. What advice can you give me as a soon-to-be lawyer to be a top professional in whatever field I decide to go to, even advice that might seem generic or cliched, please just lay it on me, I'm not a very social person so I have struggled to make contacts that I can be this vulnerable with and your 2 cents of wisdom might change my life. 

2. If I were to try and build a career as part of an IP litigation team within a firm, is there 
a pathway from there which can lead to an elevation, will I have to go for an individual office at some point and offer "full service", I believe that's the term. 

 
Please pardon me if this is the incorrect place to post this or If I've failed to provide adequate context. i shall mitigate that if you ask for it in the comments.

Thankyou.