SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: Just got scammed in pune
DATE: 2023-08-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/15nl81o/just_got_scammed_in_pune/

--- POST TEXT ---

I just got scammed in pune. Never thought it could happen to me. I know it was my fault for not paying attention to all the red flags and getting fooled. Lesson learnt. I just wanted to make everybody aware.
 I wanted to sell old metal cupboard as I wanted to buy new one. So I went on O*X for first time. I never sold/bought anything over there so had no idea how does this works. I asked for 1k . Immediately I got offer for 1k (never expected to get 1k) and asking for my phone number to finalise the deal. As I was being cautious I asked him why do you need phone number for? He said he wanted to finalise the deal. I unwillingly gave him my secondary number.
 Immediately call came. He told me he has company which deals with scrap. He enquired about cupboard and it's condition. Asked to send him my location. He sounded really genuine. He asked if there anything else which I want to sell. I had many old things which I wanted to sell. He asked me to send photos of things on WhatsApp, asked me how much I want for them. In return I asked him, how much he is willing to pay, but he insisted that I should tell how much I want for that. I asked for another 1k , expecting him to bargain. He didn't bargain, he immediately agreed. He asked about details of each and every item.e.g. what is capacity of the cooker etc.
 We finished the deal. He said his workers will collect the things tomorrow. And he wanted to pay in advance , I was again shocked. He asked me for my Google pay number and sent me QR code for 5 rs on WhatsApp. He asked me scan that code to receive money. I know what everyone might be thinking that that's not how QR payments work , I also know do they work, But at that time I don't know what happened to me. I should have identified it as fraud. But I didn't. He asked me scan QR and for 5 rs so we can test if I receive the money. I scanned that QR code for 5 rs . 5 rs debited from my account. And I immediately received 5 +5 rs. While making payment it was showing "Paying to &lt;my name&gt;". And I got fooled. Then he sent QR for 2k . I again did same for 2k payment. But this time only money from my account got deducted. No 2k +2k credited. 
 I asked him my own money got deducted. He said I will have to scan another QR and I will receive 2k+2k+2k. At this time my brain was screaming this is a fraud. I asked him is there any other way to transfer me money some other way. He said he can't he is using his card to make payment from machine and he doesn't have UPI. I was already down 2k, but I decided try one last time. Another of 2k deducted no refund. I understood what was happening. But he kept going. He sent me another QR of 6k telling me I will receive 4k +2k for payment. This time I decided to empty my bank account and transferred all my money to another account. Then I tried this 6k QR. Failed due to insufficient balance. I told him what was happening. I said I have no money left. He asked me to use another bank account. He even knew which other bank I had account in. When I refused to do so and i told him I know you are trying scam me more money and I will report him to cyber crime. He started abusing me.I decided to report him on OLX first. But his account was already removed. On WhatsApp he deleted our entire chat. I went on Truecaller and added warning. So others won't get defrauded. I went on cyber crime website. And went through FAQs, It said there could be penalty for falsely reporting crime. All the proof was gone. So decided to drop the idea.
 I know this has been very long post. But I wanted to cover all the details so nobody else will get defrauded. I know nobody else will be as foolish as me to think there might be latest way of receive payment through QR. I am not sad that I lost my 4k , I am sad bcoz I fell pray to such petty scam. I would rather donate it to needy person. We always read or hear all the precautions you need to take while using digital banking but we think we will never fall for this, and ignore all the instructions.

Red flags I could have noticed

1. No bargain from buyer on OLX
2. Scanning QR to get paid?
3. Totally different person's name on GPay account.
4. Warning from GPay regarding payment to that account could be fraudulent.(most important)

Again sorry for the such a long post. Only purpose is to make everybody aware.

Note: Decided to donate cupboard to cleaning lady form our building, lost will to sell it.