SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: [URGENT] I will almost go homeless due to family politics. In the verge of
suicidal thoughts and hopelessness.
DATE: 2024-03-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1b5p5ri/urgent_i_will_almost_go_homeless_due_to_family/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi there, I am in grave risk of going homeless very soon if I do not take immediate action as soon as possible. So this family politics is pretty dated, about running for 20 years. So there are three brothers in this game and one house which is divided in ⅓ share to each brother. Most hardworking brothers were younger brothers who in fact invested the most money for building this house, whereas the elder brother is all about taking advantage in every situation. Initially for around 8 years after the construction of this house was complete till first floor, then all three brothers with their families started living here. 

Just after 9th year, the wife of the elder brother started to plot any random situation to break apart the joint family and divide everyone. In many instances it was seen that she was jealous of others' success and properties and lifestyle, and
also that she was very unhappy that all three brothers own that house. Also my father built a house to live separately and the elder brother plotted and ruined the life of the youngest brother by inter religion marriage and thereby falsely framing him. After these incidents happened, everyone left that house except the elder brother and his family.

Youngest brother suffered a terrible lifestyle for almost 10 years by living in a separate rented place. Not only that, the elder brother filed a title suit against him claiming his part of the house citing he breached family rules and some bogus society norms. On the other hand, we also lived separately in our house which was recently built. Little did we know that they became most jealous that we were financially strong enough to build our own house. Same as the youngest brother, our family plunged into darkness and terrible pain due to relocating to our house. Elder brother used the financial resources of my father to fight a title suit case with my youngest brother for inter-caste marriage. However, the elder brother was responsible for arranging that marriage secretly to get him off of that property indirectly. He and his wife alone completely brainwashed my father into believing that me and my mother are his enemies by putting doubts into mind, a kind of slow poison. The house we bought was under a bank mortgage too. After a few years of brainwashing, he went fully against us and started harming us. Due to such cold clashes, the house was sold off by the bank in an auction. Not only that, the same happened to our other assets as well. If there is no peace at home, nothing can be successful ever. And so it happened. Now such political drama goes on, which happened to our other assets as well. If there is no peace at home, nothing can be successful ever. And so it happened.

Now such political drama goes on, which eventually is harming the future generation. I am suffering due to this, so are my cousins, although no relations are maintained due to such politics.

As anyone can imagine, I am homeless now. Well my father can always go to his previous house, but I cannot. And my mother cannot. To ensure that, he did the worst, he called a hit on me through goons to scare me off and also my mother. Soon after we informed police and lodged a written police complaint. He also sent us very vulgar messages threatening that we have no place at his previous home. Threatened my mom of divorce and court proceedings to scare her too. 

Due to the elder brother and his dirty politics, our joint family is broken into pieces. In concise form, it is seen that the elder brother wants to break apart the families of younger brothers so that he can take full advantage of that house including future inheritance. Wife of that inter-religion marriage by the youngest brother also is not living in that house despite being pregnant. Me and my mother are living on rent currently and suffering greatly every single day. Things have gotten so worse that I also decided to suicide, however later realized that it won’t change my life either. On the verge of getting a job but however, being homeless is a real pain since rent will eat away plenty of money. Not only that, the remaining balance of house auction is withheld due to a fake DRT case by my father (likely under instruction of elder brother) with the bank when clearly it's evident that such cases are destined to lose. Later we realised that the purpose of such a case is not winning or losing, but to block our funds as my mother was the joint owner. Same way the elder brother plotted against the youngest brother with a fake title suit. It is all greed.

I am in a really messed up situation where I’m running out of options and need help.