SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Romania arrests 13 in phishing scam targeting British tax office
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2025-07-10
URL: https://theprint.in/world/romania-arrests-13-in-phishing-scam-targeting-british-tax-office/2686253/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

LONDON (Reuters) -Thirteen people have been arrested in Romania after phishing attacks against Britain’s tax office HMRC, in which authorities suspect stolen data was used to fraudulently obtain millions of pounds of tax payments, HMRC said on Thursday.
His Majesty’s Revenue & Customs, or HMRC, said its criminal investigators had joined more than 100 Romanian police officers to arrest the people in the southern counties of Ilfov, Giurgiu and Calarasi.
Police also seized cash and luxury cars during the raids against the individuals aged between 23 and 53, and arrested on suspicion of computer fraud, money laundering and illegal access to a computer system.
Show Full Article
A 14th person, a 38-year-old man, was arrested in Preston, northwest England, earlier on Thursday, HMRC said.
The raids follow HMRC’s revelation last month that a criminal gang had stolen 47 million pounds ($63.7 million) by using phishing tactics to access more than 100,000 customer accounts and falsely claiming payments from the government.
The arrests are part of a number of HMRC investigations into phishing incidents, in which individuals are targeted with emails that seem legitimate, prompting them to unwittingly disclose passwords or credit card information.
HMRC had said last month the incident was an attempt to take money from the tax office, and not customers, although the authority had written to about 100,000 affected people.
Criminal gangs are suspected of having used stolen data to submit fraudulent tax repayment claims, including on income tax, value added tax and child benefit payments, the tax office said.
“We have already acted to protect customers after identifying attempts to access a very small minority of tax accounts,” Simon Grunwell, operational lead in HMRC’s Fraud Investigation Service, said.
HMRC also said two other men had been arrested in Bucharest in November on suspicion of cybercrime and fraud.
($1 = 0.7374 pounds)
(Reporting by Sachin RavikumarEditing by Bernadette Baum)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.