SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: The Blackmail Email Scam
DATE: 2018-05-03
SCORE: 187
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/8gsjba/the_blackmail_email_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

There have been many recent posts about the blackmail email scam, so I have written this post and will keep it stickied until the posts about the scam die down. If you are reading this because you have received one of these emails and you are worried, you can stop worrying. The blackmail email scam is a spam campaign that is sent out to thousands of addresses at a time. The threats are lies and you do not have anything to worry about. In many cases the email will be addressed to your real name, but this does not matter and does not mean that the email is true. If you receive one of these emails, you should post the text here with the personal information redacted so that it shows up on Google, and you should report it as spam if it gets past your spam filter. 

[Here](http://www.smh.com.au/technology/gadgets-on-the-go/latest-online-scam-aims-to-prick-porn-watchers-guilty-conscience-20170815-gxwvxl.html) are [some](https://www.fraudhelpdesk.org/alerts/blackmail-email-watching-porn/) news [articles](https://www.bbb.org/denver/news-events/news-releases/2017/09/alert-pornography-email-phishing-scam/) about [this](http://blog.dynamoo.com/2017/10/bogus-porn-blackmail-attempt-from.html) scam. 

Here are a few examples of the emails, you'll notice that they generally follow a similar script but use different words, and you'll notice that they include bizarre sentences and strange phrasing: 

----------
 
Your computer device was attacked by the malicious app . 
Whats the trouble? I placed my malicious agent on a erotica portal, you clicked on this data and promptly adjusted the malware to your computer . 
The hostile program made your selfie-camera shooting and I enjoy the videotape with you dash your doodle. 
In next 5 hours this hostile program copied all your contacts. 
Right now, I receive your all your contact information and video with you masturbating, and now if you wish me to destroy all the data affect payment 350 $USD in BTC digital currency. 
Other way I want forward that this record to all your contacts . 
I forward you my Bitcoin wallet - XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX You possess 27 hours after reading. In a case if I possess transaction I am going to undo that this record once for all. 
I beg pardon for my mistakes- I live in China . 
P.S. this postal address, I have thieved it

----------
Good day,

If you had been more careful while caressing yourself, I wouldn't worry you. I don't think that playing with yourself is very bad, but when all your colleagues, relatives and friends get a video recording of it - it is definitely bad for you.

I placed malicious software on a website for adults (with porn) which was visited by you. When the target taps on a play button, your device starts recording the screen and all cameras on your device begin to work.

Moreover, my program allows a remote desktop connection with keylogger function from the device, so I could collect all contacts from your e-mail, messengers and other social networks. I'm writing on this e-mail cuz it's your working address, so you must check it.

I suppose that three hundred twenty usd is good enough for this little misstep. I made a split screen video (recorded from your screen (u have interesting tastes ) and camera ooooooh... its awful AF)

So it's your choice. If you want me to erase this compromising evidence, use my Bitcoin wallet address: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
You have one day after opening my message; I put a special tracking pixel in it, so when you will open it I will see. If you want me to show you the proofs, reply to this message and I will send my creation to five contacts that I got from your contacts.

P.S. You can try to complain to the police, but I don't think that they can help, the investigation will last for 5 month- I'm from Ukraine - so I dgf lmao 

----------

Hello . What's anything at all about the RAT 92965 virus? you will now, because you became a pleased owner of my own, personal construction of this virus. I personally monitored to discover a number of fascinating goods on your pc, in addition i was able to link to all your own units such as a portable phone. However these are simply nothing. I actually forced our trojan to connect into a mike, net camera and also record the pictures from it, I monitored to acquire a lot of fascinating video clips, I think a few of them will end up being intriguing to you personally

My software managed to get, as soon as u seen one adult movie page. i actually spent 3 working hours to be able to stick a pair of video clips, one of which is a graphic from your screen, and also the some other photograph from a cam. It absolutely was pretty surprising!

I want you paying 480 Usd to my account

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

I only use bitcoin. In the event you have any problems sending - use web. Soon after transaction. We both will forget about this discomforting moment and i will delete everything. U now have 5 days. I will send everything to contact info I stumbled upon inside ur equipment, in the event that u won't throw me my pay out. All your friends will receive a film and your own talk data.

My wallets get closed constantly, therefore you need to hurry up. You are not the only one who gets such letter, I infected 6000 and also found positive files on over 500 of them.

Police will probably not aid you, best thing they can do is to turn off my account. So think before doing brainless shit. If i would not receive my income any purpose- your status would be destroyed. Thus, make it fast!!!

Im highly serious about anonymity and use one-time mail for sending messages, other than i use just broken wi-fi's, besides double VPN Thus, Tend not to contact me.

----------

Good day. Dont pay attention on my English, Im from India.

We installed mine virus onto your OS.

After that I pilfered all confidential background from your system. Moreover I had some more evidence. The most entertaining compromising that I have- its a record with your self-abusing. I adjusted virus on a porn site and then you installed it. As soon as you chose the video and tapped on a play button, my virus at once loaded on your device.

After setup, your front-camera shoot the videotape with you self-abusing, furthermore software captured precisely the porn video you chose. In next week my malicious software collected all your social media and email contacts.

If you need to erase all the evidence- send me 200 euro in BTC(cryptocurrency). Here is my Bitcoin number You have 30 hours to go after reading. If I see transaction I will erase the video forever. Differently I will send the video to all your colleagues and friends. 

----------

What's up,

If u were more attentive while caress yourself, I wouldn't worry you. I don't think that playing with yourself is really terrible, but when all colleagues, relatives and friends get video record of it- it is awful for you.

I placed virus on a porn web-site which was visited by you. When the target press on a play button, device begins recording the screen and all cameras on ur device starts working.

Moreover, my virus makes a dedicated desktop supplied with key logger function from the system , so I could get all contacts from ur e-mail, messengers and other social networks. I've chosen this e-mail cuz It's your working address, so u will read it.

I suppose that three hundred twenty usd is pretty enough for this little misstep. I made a split screen video(records from screen (u have interesting tastes ) and camera ooooooh... its funny AF)

So its ur choice, if u want me to destroy ur disgrace use my bitcoin wallet address- 16oooMVEjvdbmMRXJip8PPBewKh2PPkxmm You have one day after opening my message, I put the special tracking pixel in it, so when you will open it I will see.If ya want me to show u the proofs, reply on this message and I will send my creation to five contacts that I've got from ur device.

P.S. U are able to complain to cops, but I don't think that they can solve ur problem, the inquisition will last for 5 month- I'm from Estonia - so I dgf LOL

This is a scam, right? I am almost certain and just wanted to check. 

---------- 

And here are some common keywords used in the email so that this thread can be found by people Googling the email: 

"Marlware", "RAT 68006", "the damnific malware", "buff the muffin", "choke a chicken", "front camera capturing video ", "with you frigging", "with you chaturbating", "with you masturbating", "web digicam", "U are going to have 5 dayss", "i utilize just hacked wi", "pressured this trojan to", "glue a pair of videos", "glue two videos", "the RAT ", "if you want me to destroy this whole video", "downloaded all contacts from your computer", "your list of contacts or relatives will", "I made a video that shows how you masturbate", "hacked you through a virus in an ad on a porn website", "my illiteracy", "nоt mind on my illiterаcy", "I рilfered all рrivy bаckground", "videоtaре with yоur masturbаtion", "my delеtеrious soft", "cаmеra shооt the videоtaрe", "you sеlf-аbusing", "Differently I will send the video to all your colleagues and friends", "your front-camera made the videotape with you self-abusing", "RAT 98390 malware", "the minute you went to one adult page", "information to contact info I discovered on your devices and remember there is a lot of these", "not including Double VPN As a result", "I forced my malware to hook up to a mic", "web camera and catch the video from it", "poisoned a number of adult sites", "video clip to fit on a single tv screen", "This letter has invisible monitoring program inside and i will be aware of when you are going to check", "doing ur stuff and a clip u jerked to", "the investigation will last", "I uploaded our malicious program on your device", "furthermore malware saved exactly the video you chose", "its a record with your wanking", "friends will see u taking proper care of yourself", "Your system is controlled by the malicious program", "If you were more careful while playing with yourself", "that whacking off to adult web-sites is", "adult website which was poisoned with my malware", "nor i think that jerking off to porn sites is really a gross thing", "so I dgf lmao", "proof just reply to this email with", "if you want me to destroy all this compromising evidence", "will send your video to 5 contacts", "amount in Usd that can cope with this scenario", "You are welcome to contact your local authorities", "If you want proof, reply with", "i pride myself in being apart of an internet group", "so i dgf", "I take good care of my being anonymous", "information related to the RAT virus", "been able get in to all ur units"