SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: The Packers, The Movers and The Cops
DATE: 2023-07-20
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/154nfmu/the_packers_the_movers_and_the_cops/

--- POST TEXT ---

Back in April 2022, I had to send four boxes from Bangalore to my native. I got their number from google while I was searching for GATI. These scammers, I realised later, will create imposter listings on Google with their phone number and trick you into calling them. They lure you with same day pick up and very cheap initial quote. Red flags I know, but I have learnt my lesson. After the pickup, they gave me the receipt of a different company (not GATI). When I asked for the GATI tracking ID, the packers said that they were a third party and were outsourced by GATI to do pickups within the city and the tracking details will be shared with me once the consignment reaches the GATI warehouses. Red flag again. I naively believed them and let them take my belongings hostage. After a week of no communication, I reached out on the number where I had called initially to check for the status and I was given an inflated quote (around 10 times more than what I was told earlier). It was at this point I realised that I had been scammed. I tried to request this person to return my belongings and I will pay them to have it back in Bangalore itself, but they kept insisting that my consignment was at Vishakhapatnam. I questioned how that was possible to move the stuff even before I paid. They told me that they will destroy my stuff if I don't pay and were very rude. I went back to Bangalore and then to my local police station, the cops were slightly helpful, but were mostly uninterested because the sum of the items I had lost were not more than 50k Rs at the time. I had 6 paintings from an ex girlfriend of mine which I valued a lot (sentimentally). The cops equated my problems to the multiple rapes and murders plaguing the streets of Bangalore and tried to make me feel guilty for even approaching them for help. They argued that this is neither theft nor coercion since I consensually gave them my stuff. They refused to file a report (FIR). The next day I went to the police station again, this time begging and acting helpless and I was able to convince one of the sub inspectors to calling the scammers. The scammers stated that the delivery was as scheduled and I was the criminal here since I was not paying. The cop asked me to visit the address listed on my receipt and file a complaint in the police station for that address. As I went to the address, I realised that it was a bogus address and there was no packers and movers company for kilometers. I went to the nearest police station. Showed them the bill and the FIR draft. The cops that day were busy, you could hear people wailing from the lock ups from behind the building and the sound of fibre sticks singing through flesh pierced through. They refused to file my report, since the address is bogus, it does not make sense to file it here but in the jurisdiction of where the crime occurred. I was half expecting this, but I had accepted my fate by now, but in a Kafka-esque way. I did not give up. I went back to my local police station and described what I had found and done and how the cops at the other station refused to file a report. The local cops told me that I should file a case in the cyber crime department and they can track the miscreants from the UPI usage. But they asked me to wait for a day. In the meanwhile, we called the scammers again. After a few minutes of back and forth, the guy on the call said that their warehouse was in Nellamangala. Hearing this for the cop was like honey to a bee. He asks me then to file a report in Nellamangala, based on the new address provided. I visit the address the next day and again it was bogus, so I reach the nearest police station to file a complaint. As expected, they refused to file a complaint and then ask me to go back to my local police station to file the FIR. I reach the local police station the same night and ask them for help. Coincidentally, another gentleman was grieved by a similar scam and with the help of a constable they were able to nab the packer and mover valet and brought him to the station. The sub inspector slaps the shit of the scammer and gets him to talk to his handlers and have the items returned. After a chat with the fellow complainant I realised that his consignment was worth around 5-6 lakhs and he was tipping the cops 10% for their bravery and help. Out of this, the cops suggest me to follow the same modus operandi as in this case to nab the scammers. They asked me to schedule another pickup from a different place and call the PCR vehicles to assist you. The next day I do that. With the help of a very kind friend, I was able to schedule a pickup at an address where there was only one exit. After spotting them at the site, I called 112 and explained my case as I was asked by the cops. After having lived for more than 5 years, I had never cared to learn Kannada. I will have bursts of enthusiastic learning followed by really long lulls of disinterest and disregard, because of busy work lifestyles and being able to get by without ever having to use beyond 2 or 3 words in it. I regretted this attitude the most at this point. The cops in the PCR, were unable to understand where I was asking them to come. After a delay of 15 minutes due to miscommunication on my part, they finally arrived. I took them to the spot and they were cornered. The sub inspector in the vehicle was rude throughout. Kept calling me names and always reminded me that I am an outsider. I bore all the humiliation just so I can get my justice. Upon initial questioning they feigned ignorance and asked to get in touch with their boss on the phone. Their boss, the guy who I had made the first call to, asked to talk to the sub-inspector wherein he hands the phone on the other side to a cop in Kudlu Gate police station. The sub inspectors demeanour changed completely. Kept saluting the guy on the phone and then he started hurling abuses at me. He disconnected the call and then took a picture of me and made me write my number down in their logs. All this while he kept hurling abuses at me. A crowd had gathered around by now. The cop reminds me again how trivial my problems are compared to what they could have done instead, like stop a murder or a rape or both. The cop threatens me to beat me up and then drag me into his car. Just intimidation, I knew. He had to save face for whoever was the superior that gave him the instructions. He calls back to the control room to close the incident by putting the blame on me for non payment and letting the scammers leave. He asks me to join the scammers in their truck and head to their warehouse at Kudlu Gate. Yeah, right. This is where I gave up. I did not want to see another cop. I gave up on any attachment I had to my stuff. The cops new who the scammers were but would not act, because the monetary value was too low to extract a good commission. This is not just the story of Bangalore but anywhere in India. How common people run from pillar to post and eventually give up. After three days of having given up that I would ever see my stuff again, I get a call from my father in my native, that they have received a consignment. One of the bags was missing. But I recovered most of my stuff, especially the paintings. I paid the initially quoted amount to the scammers/impostors, since I did not want to be in dubious legal territory. My point is, be diligent, learn the language of the place where you live and never hope cops to help you (in India). Life will always be difficult but it will be easier to bear.

TLDR;

1. Use only reputed packers and movers and transport companies. Don't go the cheaper route unless it is India Post.
2. Learn the local language so that you don't get judged by the cops.
3. Bangalore cops are in bed with all the scammers out there. Action is only ever taken when you offer more money than the other bidder.
4. Be diligent, aware and do not ignore red flags.