SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Land Scam - Legal Advise
DATE: 2024-09-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ff84fa/land_scam_legal_advise/

--- POST TEXT ---

So this may cover a little more than legal stuff, but just to set the context, my cousin's dad has a small piece of land in the outskirts of Bangalore, which he had bought long ago. In the last couple of years, he has been trying to sell it off to generate some liquidity for his retirement. For this, he seems to have hired an agent who said he could help out with the sales process and knowing all the local government officials, it would be easier to get the work done. They hadn't been successful in getting a good prospective buyer, and for some reason, it was kept in the back burner. 

Last week, my uncle got a call from the agent, and to his shock, he was asked if the land was sold off to someone. I don't know the exact details, but apparently, there was a GPA that was created, between someone and with my uncle's signature and other details, and using this GPA, the land was sold to someone else. And this transaction with the monetary details reflects in the sub-registrar's office and documents. 

So currently, they are now in the process of figuring out what the hell happened and how it all happened. Which brings me to my question, that how the hell does something like this happen without anyone's knowledge? Is it that simple to try and scam someone's property with forged documents? Are there no checks and balances to this process? I thought your physical presence is required for such things. What's crazy is that we are frequently handing over our Aadhaar and PAN and other documents to trusted folks, so this could probably happen to anyone.

Secondly, after hearing about this, I have been trying to figure out how one can protect their assets (properties, market investments, vehicles, etc) from such kind of situations? Is there a way to ensure such kind of scams can be avoided without our knowledge where all anyone needs is a copy of your signature and some ID proof and you can lose your life savings? What's the legal preventive solution to all of this, if any? Or maybe there are consultants or professionals who assist with such issues? Seriously thinking now of how I can get this done with my dad's and our family assets. How do rich folks protect themselves in this regard? They have assets worth crores, so I am sure there must be a way they are ensuring its all protected? 

Any advise and suggestions will be highly appreciated. Also, curious on other ways such scams could potentially take place. I am sure it will help the general public as well.