SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Car dealer sold me a car already sold internally to someone else, with warranty already started pre-purchase.
DATE: 2023-07-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/14pnh6h/car_dealer_sold_me_a_car_already_sold_internally/

--- POST TEXT ---

A Honda car dealer in Delhi sold me a car which was already sold internally, in the records of Honda, to someone else, 6 months prior to my date of purchase. The standard warranty date also started on that date, which the dealer now says can't be corrected to my date of purchase as the records are already registered in Honda Cars India.

I was able to find all this when I received the 1st service invoice, which was billed to somebody else, had their address and PAN card details. I contacted that person whose details was used, and even he was shocked about how the car dealer could use his details, such as his PAN, to mark a sale internally. I might have never found out had I not

On top of that, I have had various issues with the car which is barely 5 months old too. The clutch has been changed, some part in the gearbox has been changed as the reverse gear was not engaging properly, and a seatbelt in the rear side has been changed too.

&amp;#x200B;

From whatever I have read so far, I feel the dealer has not only done a fraud with me, by indulging in misrepresentation and unfair trade practices, but also done a crime on the other person's end by misusing their PAN details. I have tried contacting Honda Cars India, and they just forward the case to the dealer. The dealer although acknowledges their 'mistake' but is just offering some extended warranty, which I am not going to accept.

I have given them 3 options (Fix the warranty start date to my date of purchase, Replace the car, or Provide compensation by treating it as a 6 months old car; in the same order of preference) but the dealer is just beating around the bush, and its all proving to be a waste of time and lots of mental trouble for me.

Now what should be the next legal course of action for me?