SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: My friend is getting blackmailed and harrassed by a pedo guy she met online. What can I do to help her?
DATE: 2024-01-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/190vzlg/my_friend_is_getting_blackmailed_and_harrassed_by/

--- POST TEXT ---

My really good friend only told me this recently because she started getting threatened with blackmails more frequently. Basically, she met this dude online 4 years ago out of young blind love and boredom (pandemic was still ongoing), she was 15 and he was 21 at the time. Knowing each other's ages, the dude still started dating her and video calling her everyday. The dude eventually started asking for inappropriate pictures (YES SHE WAS 15 AND HE WAS 21 AT THE TIME), and in the video calls, told my friend to strip down her clothes, which she did. The problem started when she did these requests. 3 or so years later, my friend decided to break up with him because she said he started creeping her out, so they broke up. The problem was that the dude kept screen recordings of her doing inappropriate things in the video calls and saved the inappropriate pictures in his phone. Now she is being threatened with the pictures and videos to make her get back with him. When he makes specific requests that she refuses to do, he will scare her with threats saying he will post her stuff in social media, forcefully giving her no choice but to do it. Now he has control of her social media accounts, has a gps app so that he can track anytime where she's at (he doesn't let her turn off her phone's location services, and again, threatens her if she does), and gets angry with her when she doesn't reply.

If it helps, me and my friend are from the Philippines and this guy said that he was from Kolkota, India. This is currently ongoing right so we really need help. I don't know if this is the right subreddit to post this on so I am sorry in advance (Please tell me where I should post this if it is not okay to post it here.)