SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Was I scammed?
DATE: 2022-09-06
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/x7bkmj/was_i_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello all.

I'm sorry this is going to be quite long so please bear with me. Thank you :)

I (26M) texted this lady early last year on Twitter and soon we became good friends. Got her number and we would text daily on WhatsApp. We got a little close since we had a few things in common.

Some background info on her. I estimate her age to be late 20s. She told me she's from Greece and India but she was currently in my country (a certain African country) on vacation. Later on she would tell me she's here on a work assignment.

She and the family (her three sisters) are apparently very well off and she told me she was staying at some villas here and the cost of a lease will set you back almost $100,000 in my estimates. She also claimed to have all these late model European cars.

Anyway around August 2021 I asked her if she could help me with a job since I was unemployed (I still am) she said no problem I can be her personal driver (she said she'd be paying me $525 per month- where I stay that's good money for a driver) I didn't know how to drive so I went to driving school. Passed my test and got my license.

Just before I could start working for her she becomes very ill. I keep checking on her through her sisters. 

Once she gets better one day we are having this conversation and I tell her it would be great if I could leave the country for greener pastures and studies ( I hold a Bachelors Degree in Economics btw so I wanted to get a Masters). She says no problem she can sort that out. She's like if I'd told her earlier I would've been gone already by then. 

She had apparently been sending people to go for work to the US, UK and another country I'm forgetting. I'd see her occasionally post on her status telling those people when they'd be flying out. She would do this out of kindness. She also ran an orphanage in the country.

Anyway since she still wasn't 100% due to illness she handed me and a close friend if mine she'd agreed to help to her older sister to help us. I send her sister $265 to process passports for me and my friend and within days she tells me the passports were ready so she was going to use a contact at the UK embassy to process our visas. 

They both tell me the jobs have been secured. Asst. Manager at a Sweaty Betty's in London for me and son role at an Immigration center for my friend. Also in London. For accommodation we were to stay at their house in London (Camden Town, apparently). My school too was. At London Business school apparently.

The elder sister then gets an impromptu assignment and has to leave the city. She ends up gone for about 2 months. She eventually returns but says she's too busy to help plus apparently there was something missing. Some sort of tax number needed on the UK.

They also asked whether we wanted UK citizenship. How cool huh. I tell them okay. Apparently she had a favor she could cash in and they'd get it for us. After sometime she says it went through and we shall get US passports.

At some point during this whole thing she tells me son people from Greece came to my country and were offering grants but the catch was I had to bribe the person in charge ( a local). So I sent $160. The grant was about $30,000. Long story short I haven't got it to date.

She also said she'd give me a house (she'd built for someone but they disappointed her) to me as long as I give her any amount of money. I asked if she was serious. I couldn't believe it so I sent her $50. She also said she'd give me a car. Sent another $50. Got neither.

Fast forward she gets seriously ill again and has to fly home for treatment. Takes about 3 months there. Would check on her once in a while. Now she's back but she isn't replying my messages. 

I apprehended her a few times but she'd always give excuses and say she's going to sort me out. She last texted me a few days ago.

By the way I have never met this person (once we had planned to meet so I went to the villas but she hadn't given me the exact address and I couldn't reach her. Her sister wasn't helpful either) nor her sisters. Never even heard her voice. Apparently she doesn't do calls because her family (Mom, dad and brother) once died in a car accident and someone called to tell her over the phone so she's had trauma ever since. 

I have a number of things that don't really make sense. If she has scammed me then why continue talking to me and my friend? A scammer would block you and not talk to you anymore right? 

And if yes then she's scammed me financially and emotionally too. I really thought I'd make the big move to the UK. Where I come from going to such a place is a big deal. I would have got some money to help the people back home and also improve on my own life. It's sad.

Did she do it for the money? (total i sent her was about $465) Or just for the fun of it because maybe it gave her an adrenaline rush. It's mind boggling to me really. 

So that's my very long story. Thank you for taking your time to read through. Hopefully you can share with me all y'all thoughts.

TL;DR: Not sure whether I was scammed or not. A close buddy made me some big promises. I had to send some money but to date I haven't got a single thing she promised.

Edit: Thank you for your responses. Either they are so good or I was just dumb or unlucky lmao. We spoke for several months and she literally didn't initiate anything financial. I'm the one who brought up the issue of moving abroad. Not once did they ever suggest anything.

Edit 2: I'm seeing romance scam but we weren't into each other or anything. Just talked a lot about a wide range of topics but it was purely platonic.

Edit 3: So the thing is...why keep talking to me at all after scamming me yet it had become clear I wouldn't send any more money. Why not just stop talking to me and block me or something?