SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Student held for ‘sexually abusing’ 5-year-old girl in Telangana
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/india/student-held-for-sexually-abusing-5-year-old-girl-in-telangana/2893467/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Hyderabad, Mar 31 (PTI) A 19-year-old student was arrested here for allegedly sexually abusing a five-year-old girl, filming the act and uploading it online, officials said on Tuesday.
The incident involving the minor girl came to light after the Child Protection Unit of Telangana Cyber Security Bureau (TGCSB) analysed evidence received through the Child Sexual Exploitative and Abusive Material (CSEAM) tipline, which also indicated that the parents may be unaware of the abuse, they said.
“The TGCSB successfully rescued the minor girl victim. The sad truth is that the perpetrator is the girl’s cousin, whom she innocently calls ‘bhayya’ (brother),” TGCSB Director Shikha Goel said in a release.
Show Full Article
Based on a detailed examination of the video shared through the tipline with the Child Protection Unit, the TGCSB was able to identify the accused, a degree second year student, Goel said.
Upon questioning, the accused “confessed” to abusing the victim girl, the official said, adding the accused frequently visited the victim’s residence and committed the offence by taking her to the terrace of the house.
The electronic device used by the accused has been seized ond sent for detailed digital forensic examination to identify any additional CSEAM material and to support further investigation, she said.
A case was registered under relevant sections of the IT Act and POCSO Act and the accused has been remanded to judicial custody.
The rescued child has been provided necessary support and counselling has been extended to her parents.
Crimes relating to child sexual abuse are often hidden, and most of the offenders are persons known to the family or victim, the official added.
The TGCSB is continuously working to detect and stop such crimes using advanced technology and focused investigations.
The public is advised to remain vigilant and report any suspicious online activity involving children through appropriate cybercrime reporting channels, the release added. PTI VVK VVK ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.