SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Phishing - Advice needed
DATE: 2023-06-17
SCORE: 66
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/14bfy1q/phishing_advice_needed/

--- POST TEXT ---

A friend got phished of ~4L, she doesn’t have enough Karma points to post here so posting on her behalf. 

Edit: I guess I have to explicitly spell it out, please don't add any anecdotal word vomit in comments. Some folks here seem to have the whole 'holier-than-thou' attitude,'I would never fall for this, HAHA'. Not really helpful on a post where someone is looking for genuine advice. Don't be a jerk!

“On 1st June I got an IVR call from FedEx on 1st June where they told me that one of my parcel is pending from Mumbai to Taiwan, Upon moving to helpline number through the same IVR, the executive told me that the parcel contains numerous articles including 150 gms MDMA and because of the MDMA, the parcel has been put on hold. Further the executive connected me to the nearest police station. Police asked me to connect through Skype where they forced me to keep my camera on. Then police took my details and further connected me to the cyber cell and cyber cell told me that some unauthorized transactions (ie money laundering) is happening in my account through Bitcoin. Some bank officials are also involved, because they first do transactions then the bank officials delete those transactions, hence common people don't get to know. Then they connected me to finance team where they told me to back track the account numbers through which fraudulent transactions are happening you have to do a code transaction of INR 98426 and it will reflect back in your bank account in 1 hour. Then they asked me to do one more transaction of the same amount. Then third transaction of INR 211914.

When they asked me to do a fourth transaction of INR 253416 then I didn't do and cut the call. I then after 2 hours filed cyber crime report online, followed by police FIR in Bisrakh Thana in Greater Noida West the following morning and reported to banks and Gpay. 2 transactions were from Gpay and 1 from mbanking. 1Gpay and 1 mbanking transaction from ICICI bank ie my savings account and 1 transaction from HDFC bank ie my current account.

Later on 3rd June, the cyber cell was able to retrieve INR 94410 and I called up cyber cell helpline to ask the process to get the money back in my bank account, they told me to contact the local police station to extract the money. I contacted the same police station to know the process. They told me to hire a lawyer and get a court order stating to release the money. Later I contacted 3 lawyers and all of them told me the same thing that it is a State vs Police case, no civilian can go upto the court and ask for a court order.”

What is this court order ? And is this an excuse by the Police ? What are her options here ?