SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: [India]Maunto investment scam : how do i withdraw the money deposited ?
DATE: 2025-05-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1kc7pyz/indiamaunto_investment_scam_how_do_i_withdraw_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

My dad recently invested in an “investment company” under the name “Maunto” he found off some social media page. He invested around USD 500 under the advice of a “chief financial manager” from the same company. She made him transfer money with him sharing his screen on zoom. 

The thing with my dad is he trusts people too much that you can even say he’s a bit gullible. He didn’t crosscheck the legitimacy of the company or check reviews, and worse, he did all this without telling me or my mom. He finally (thankfully) spilled everything today and it was quite obvious it was a scam. 

Didn’t take more than 2 web searches to realise how easily fake it looked and the number of people scammed the same way. We immediately filed a withdrawal request. 

Thankfully the “chief financial manager” called him while i was around him and this time i picked up. With the industrial noise in the background and the Indian with the wannabe British accent gave it away instantly. She told me to give the phone to my dad cause it was a “business call” and only wanted to talk to him. He eventually gave it to me and to he honest, even she didn’t have enough knowledge to scam someone. She called me again to share his screen on zoom for god knows what reason. When asked she said something about an “open p&amp;L” and some documents which she apparently needed to process withdrawal. 

When interrogated about the legitimacy of her company, she said she was “an Indian working from home in Turkey for a company based off of South Africa”, girl really was out of lies. 

The india part came out only when i asked her about the fake accent. Anyways by now she started swearing at me cause it started getting to her and I honestly don’t think any money is going to be deposited back by them. 

So i wanna know is there any legal procedure to get the money back. My dad is quite shaken and i have never seen him tear up, ever. 

The payment was via UPI (Gpay). We live in India. The payment was done to an account with the name “Bella Enterprises”, UPI ID “dazzledrift@yesbank”. We have screenshots of the transactions done so far, just in case. 

I have told my dad not to entertain their calls for now but it would be nice to get back the money scammed off of us. This is not the first time this is happening to him and i can actually see the stress getting to him. Open to all questions. Please :(