SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I did something really, really stupid and now I'm out of sober $2,000
DATE: 2017-07-20
SCORE: 38
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/6ocugz/i_did_something_really_really_stupid_and_now_im/

--- POST TEXT ---

To spare you sometime commenting: I'm 17 years old and naïve. I realize. 

I have been looking for a job along the lines of housekeeping, babysitting, housesitting, etc. 

I posted ads everywhere with my resume and got a response from a woman named Jessica explaining that she was a private contractor that recently had lung surgery and needed things done for her and was willing to pay me $700 a week. Obviously, I jumped on this. 

Now before I go on, I'm not a complete moron. I knew the red flags were there. They always were in the back of my mind but I always have the benefit of the doubt with people. I like believing people are good and genuine with their actions. I know I shouldn't have. I knew it was naive. Anyways. 

I let her use my bank account to make a deposit. (big mistake number one) Kids, don't give people your bank information. This is common knowledge. I knew this. You know this. It didn't cross my mind that the money she'd put in were fraudulent checks. I didn't even know that bank accounts could accept fake checks. I was wrong in assuming that in 2017, we'd have better security than that. I figured "What the hell" ya know? "What's she gonna do? Scam me of the 75 cents I had in my bank account before this?" Yeah.... 

So she deposited the money into my account and wanted me to send via moneygram. I withdrew it and went onto CVS to do as she asked at moneygram. She was sending it to a client in Oklahoma. Neato. I don't remember how much each one was. I think the most was $500. I sent money to two places: Seminole, OK and Goa, India.

Now yesterday, I tried to log into my bank account. Restricted access. Okay, weird. ("Is it though?" I ask myself now.) I call the number and they ask me questions about my bank account activity and tell me I have to go in with my mother (primary account holder) and work this out. By this time, I knew I was fucked but not entirely sure how. I played it cool via text with "Jessica". Her, prying at me to get it fixed quickly cause she had another deposit she wanted to run. 

With Jessica's supposed lung surgery I felt it rude to ask of her to talk on the phone with me. I was tempted a couple times but I was sooooo sympathetic and didn't want her to use up so much precious energy on little ole me. She should be recovering, resting. 

At the bank (really, a credit union. Cause fuck banks.) They explained why my account was on hold, the checks were most likely fraudulent, why I was an idiot, etc, etc. A quick mental breakdown on the bathroom floor of Suncoast Credit Union and 20 minutes later, ended with a sticky note with the number $2466.70 that I have to pay back within a month or 60 days or something like that, a second sticky note with the link IC3.gov, and my mother slamming the car door saying "That's fucking great." 

I have names and addresses to the places in both Oklahoma and India, I have "Jessica's" email address, her phone number is fake. Textnow, of course. I don't even want to contact the authorities just because it's all my fucking fault and I just want to get a shitty waitressing job at fuckin Cracker Barrel and pray to god I can pay all that money back and move the fuck on with my life. However if anyone has any sort of advice for me or if you just want to make fun of me, go right ahead.