SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: I feel so dumb and need to vent out regarding a scam so that i can sleep in peace.
DATE: 2024-09-30
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1fsp83z/i_feel_so_dumb_and_need_to_vent_out_regarding_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tdlr: Got a call that my number was used for illegal activities and an FIR was made. I was so stupid to give away my personal details like Aadhaar and video call in almost 1n half hour call. Luckily no money was transferred as I gained my senses soon. After i shared my incident i came to know about similar instances where women were targeted particularly. One of my neighbours relatives lost 5 lakh , was able to recover 2lakh. Read in a local news that one woman was duped in a similar manner for 50lakh and another senior citizen F too. Please take care of mother , sister, grand parents and let them know.

SO this happened to me:

2 days back i got a call from TRAI ( an IVRS said ) my number will be blocked in next 2 hours please click 1 for more information.

I usually don’t bother and cut the IVRS calls but i click 1 and my call got transferred to an TRAI agent, he told me my number was used for some illegal activities and when i asked about the number he told me some random number which i told wasn’t mine. He gave me details and told to book FIR with these details to Alambagh police station as the sim was bought in that region. 

I told I won’t be able to as i stay far away ftom the said location. Then he told to submit a digital FIR and he will be transferring my call to them . (I have already wasted my 20min asking for reasons and all the stuff)
My call transferred to police station and the guy asked me politely to give details of the incident and all. I did that , then he asked me to give him that in a video format for proof with holding my aadhar. I was such an idiot to do so. He told me he will do a video call just for the proof the video i sent is not made up video. I was like ok and went ahead. 

The video started and there was this guy in video with full police uniform and setup ,the audio and video weren’t matching and the time in the wall was 12:07 where as the actual time was 2:38. Now i got nervous as i understood what was happening , I didn’t asked the person regarding the time and all . After the video , he told me to stay away in an empty room to show who are around and all the stuff which i ignored saying i stay alone. He told i should be in video call till they have all the details should not talk to anyone and also should keep my phone in charge.

Now i was tensed, because of my stupidity i compromised my video that they can use for anything, they can morph it maybe to blackmail . Also my Aadhaar details were compromised . I told my personal details like who do i stay with and all. And thinking these while in the call was making me anxious and felt like i will get a heart attack soon.

As i thought they started blaming me saying my details were associated with money laundering cases and i have duped around 30lakh from various people. I kept denying the allegations and told i need to talk to my husband. They said you can’t call other wise we will have to arrest you.

I took a deep breath and told them to go ahead. Please send the cops at my doorstep or i will go to the nearest police station. They told me i will get arrested there cz they have an arrest warrant against me . I still kept defending myself (it prolonged for more than an hour) . They kept calling me even when i cut their calls. 
I was so annoyed due to my stupidity that I told them to not ring me untill they send me arrest warrant or FIR against me . If they want to send cops, i am ready for them too. 

They stopped calling me after that .
But now daily i am getting these call atleast twice. Yesterday got a call that my bank account is compromised and some foreign transfers are made. Today i got a call that my fedex parcel has bern send to police station .
I just want rant here sorry for such a long post , now i can sleep in peace.

I have already raised a complaint against the numbers in cyber crime. As no money fraud was done , they told it won’t be their priority but will look into it.
I also came to know mostly women were getting targeted by this. One of my neighbours relative (20yo woman) who was going to USA for studies was duped to 5lakh. They told she us trying to run away and they will cancel her VISA . Luckily her mother suspected and called her father telling the girl was in video call not opening the door not for food water and is asking me to leave and looks tense. Once father came and asked her to cut the call and went to police station they were successful on recovering 2 lakh . Other such incidents also came in today’s local new paper.