Sir/ ma'am, I got a message from +[protected] about promising part time job in amazon sales merchandise with promising salary of around 7000 per day. She asked me to contact her on Telegram through this link (https://t.me/mary18866). Later she gave me instruction to do the tasks, I was asked to complete 3 assessment tasks based on which I could be offered permanent job. In the first task they asked me to deposit Rs.200 because it was a small amount which i can afford to even lose if this was a scam. after which I will be rewarded Rs.240 as my commission on selling the product to the merchant which gave me a total of Rs.440 to be withdrawn. As I was able to complete the 1st task out of 3, this lady asked me to contact her manager using this link https://t.me/harrypai2 his name is Manmohan Singh and I was able to really withdraw the amount which made me believe this was genuine. After that they asked me to continue with the task to earn more money, so I went on with the task which later asked me to deposit more money which again I was able to withdraw easily with profit. But now the cost of the product increases rapidly and eventually the deposit amount also increases, but since I was able to withdraw the money earlier, I thought could withdraw after this task so I deposit the required money. But later this cycle goes on, I deposit the money in the belief of easy withdrawal but eventually I ended up losing all my savings and now all my money is stuck into their system. Now they say I'm only able to withdraw my money after I finish the remaing task in which they ask me to deposit 25000 more to sell 1 product after which I can withdraw which I don't think I will be able to now because this is a Fraud trap I fell into just for the sake of making some money. I already deposited 15000, now I don't have any money, I am a student. I'm employed. Please someone help me getting back my money. It was a mistake. Please 🙏 These are some Id's where I deposited the money with screenshots attached: [protected]@paytm [protected]@okicici Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (1)