SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Domestic violence in India - An Indian gynecologist's vent!
DATE: 2020-09-18
SCORE: 811
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/iuyf6l/domestic_violence_in_india_an_indian/

--- POST TEXT ---

Domestic Violence. 

This is for the men. 

Domestic violence is a topic that has become extremely close to my heart. As a gynecologist it is very common for a woman to open up to me in the OPD and relive their everyday horror. The prevalence in our society is alarming. 
My upbringing has been one of independent thinking, maybe veering on certain occasions towards feminism. I was naive in the beginning thinking that why doesn't a woman just leave her husband if he is physically or verbally violent. It took time to understand that the society we live in is complex. Patriarchal.

I will give 2 examples from different families. A few years back a woman wd come to my antenatal opd and I gently scolded her once as hers was a high risk pregnancy and she wdnt come for her checkups regularly. She was from a poor family. Her son was 4 and had a congenital heart disease and was booked for surgery. This was her 2nd pregnancy. I tried to emphasize the need for coming for regular ANCs and she burst into tears. On a closer look, her eye was bruised and she had scratch marks on her face. She was 8 months pregnant living with an abusive husband who neither cared for her nor their son. During her delivery she pleaded with me to let her stay in the hospital for an additional 3 weeks as she would then be stronger after to withstand his beatings than soon after delivery. We tried to help her whatever way we could reaching out to an NGO, securing her a part time job, making her stand on her own feet. Despite all this she could not muster the courage to leave her husband... What would her community say? And the beatings continue. 

The 2nd lady is a mother of my son's classmate. What we would call a good family on the outside but in reality a fake image portrayed towards society. She called me once for a medical problem and while explaining that she needs to visit the OPD, she burst into tears. She said she just needed someone to talk to and she was a victim of domestic abuse. I tried to help. To talk her into standing up for herself. To fight the abuse. But how? Her husband hasn't allowed her to have her own account or even a Paytm account. She is completely dependent on him financially and doesn't want to bother her parents by revealing her situation. She is worried about the impact of her trauma on her young 5 y old son. And the beatings continue. 

My post is to vent. Our society will not let these women come up. Their stories will be hidden and they will be shamed. There is no future for our children if we allow our women to be mistreated just because they are women. To be abused. Persecuted. Oppressed. 

Let us create awareness and let our children and our men know that this is not right. The women already know. 

Roses are red. Violets are blue. Lets slam the abuse. Both me and you ❤️