SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Apple service centre wanted to charge me 4000+ for replacing my audio jack.
DATE: 2023-08-19
SCORE: 111
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/15vh23i/apple_service_centre_wanted_to_charge_me_4000_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

You are a hard-working employee at a reputable company. You use your office provided apple mac book pro for your daily tasks and projects. You have a lot of deadlines and responsibilities to meet. You also have a lot of fun and creative ideas to share. You love your job and your mac book pro.

But one day, something goes wrong. You plug in your headphones and try to listen to some music, but you hear nothing. You check the volume, the settings, and the connection, but everything seems fine. You try different headphones, but none of them work. You realize that there is something wrong with your audio jack.

You are worried and stressed. You need your audio jack to work for your online meetings, classes, and presentations. You also need it to relax and enjoy your favorite tunes and podcasts. You wonder how you can fix it as soon as possible.

You decide to take your mac book pro to the nearest apple service center and hope they can help you. But when you get there, you are shocked by what they tell you.

They say that your audio jack is broken and needs to be replaced. They say that it will cost you 4000+ to do it. They say that it will take at least two weeks to get the new part and install it. They say that you have no other option but to pay and wait.

You can't believe it. You feel angry and cheated. You think that they are trying to scam you and take advantage of your situation. You wonder why a simple audio jack can be so expensive and time-consuming to fix.

You refuse to accept their offer and decide to look for another solution. You search online for ways to fix your audio jack by yourself. You find many articles and videos that suggest different methods and tools.

You come across one that catches your eye. It says that you can fix your audio jack using wd-40. It says that wd-40 is a water-displacing spray that can lubricate and protect metal parts from rust and corrosion. It says that wd-40 can also dissolve dirt, grease, and grime that might be stuck in your audio jack.

You are curious about this idea. You think that it sounds simple and easy. You think that it might work for you. You decide to give it a try.

You go to the nearest hardware store and buy a can of wd-40. You go back home and follow the instructions on the video. You spray a small amount of wd-40 into your audio jack and gently insert and remove your headphones a few times. You wipe off the excess wd-40 with a cloth.

You plug in your headphones again and turn on your mac book pro. You hold your breath and hope for the best.

You hear a sound.

You hear music.

You hear voices.

You hear joy.

You did it! You fixed your audio jack by yourself using wd-40! You feel a surge of happiness and relief. You feel proud and smart. You feel like you just saved yourself a lot of money and time.

You celebrate by listening to your favorite songs and dancing around your room. You call your friends and tell them about your amazing feat. They congratulate you and praise you for your ingenuity. They ask you how you did it and you tell them about wd-40.

You smile and enjoy your moment of glory.

https://www.youtube.com/shorts/s9C03DiBU1A?feature=share

PS - ya i used chat gpt to write some of this lol

EDIT : Our is remote company

office didnt pay for wear/tear earlier . I wfh .

We dont get replacement too

We need to bear the cost on our own. 

Few pitfalls for a permanent wfh company so its ok