SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Maharashtra legislature passes Freedom of Religion Bill to check conversions through fraud
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-17
URL: https://theprint.in/india/maharashtra-legislature-passes-freedom-of-religion-bill-to-check-conversions-through-fraud/2881882/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mumbai, Mar 17 (PTI) The Maharashtra Freedom of Religion Bill 2026, which has stringent provisions to prohibit religious conversions carried out through coercion, fraud, inducement or marriage, moved a step closer to becoming a law on Tuesday with its passage in the council.
With the state legislature now clearing the bill, which the assembly passed by voice vote a day earlier, the draft statute will now be sent to the governor for assent.
The bill was tabled in the council by Minister of State for Home Pankaj Bhoyar.
Show Full Article
Notably, the opposition Shiv Sena (UBT) has supported the bill, while the Congress and SP opposed it.
As per the Bill, those involved in unlawful conversions on the pretext of marriage will be punished with imprisonment of seven years and shall also be liable for a fine of Rs 1 lakh.
The bill prohibits conversion made by use or practice of allurement, misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion or by any other fraudulent means. It details the procedure for conversion, which includes submitting a prior notice to the competent authority declaring the intention to convert.
The bill mandates declarations by the converted person and the institute that organises such conversion, to the competent authority after conversion.
According to the objects and reasons of the bill, instances of religious conversions that are forceful, involuntary or caused by influencing the free consent of citizens have been increasing and are being carried out in an organised manner by various institutions.
“Many instances of mass conversion have come to light where gullible persons have been forcefully converted from one religion to another by offering any gift, gratification, easy money or material benefit either in cash or kind, employment, free education in school or college run by any religious body or institution, promise to marry, better lifestyle, divine healing, etc.
“These instances are causing disturbance to public order in the state and are affecting social harmony,” according to the statement of objects and reasons.
Individuals or families are susceptible to unlawful conversions due to their social and economic vulnerability in society. Such vulnerable sections of society need protection from the state. The existing laws are inadequate to tackle various issues arising from such religious conversions, it said.
The bill also specifies punishment for violating the provisions, and provides for investigation of unlawful conversion by an officer not below the rank of sub-inspector of police. It also provides for rehabilitation support by the state government to victims of unlawful conversion and maintenance and custody of children.
Bhoyar said Maharashtra has no law to regulate such religious conversions.
Various states, including Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, and Tamil Nadu, have already enacted similar acts prohibiting such forceful and unlawful conversions.
NCP (SP) MLC Shashikant Shinde said it is necessary to demonstrate that the bill is not against any community.
He said that while this law is being legislated, there is a need to introduce a law for maintaining harmony in society.
Shiv Sena’s Hemant Patil supported the law, saying “love jihad” is happening in a big way. He also demanded legislation that makes the one-child norm compulsory.
Independent member Idris Naikwadi, who belongs to the ruling NCP, expressed concern over the bill, questioning the need for a law when Article 25 of the Constitution gives freedom of religion.
He said the intent of the bill is good, but history shows that such laws are misused. “There is a fear among people that they will be troubled under the pretext of law,” he added.
Naikwadi pointed out the “long period” of 60 days mandated in the bill for giving notice to the competent authority if any person intends to convert from one religion to another.
He expressed concerns that certain people can exploit the notice period to incite sentiments, especially in rural areas, and demanded that the notice period be reduced to seven days.
According to Naikwadi, the bill can be misused to target organisations.
BJP’s Pravin Darekar said that bringing such a law is a public demand.
Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra has already clarified that the bill is not directed against any particular religion, and it aims only to prevent religious conversions carried out through force, fraud or inducement.
“This bill does not restrict a person’s right to follow a religion as guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution. The right to religion does not include the right to convert another person through coercion, misrepresentation, fraud or allurement,” Fadnavis told the assembly during a marathon debate on Monday.
He told reporters that several women had been lured into marriage through relationships and later abandoned, asserting that the bill aims to curb such practices.
“The Opposition parties are politicising the issue for vote-bank gains, but once they read the bill carefully, they will have no objections,” he added. PTI PR NSK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.