SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Girlfriend Duped out of 28,000 aed in UAE by India based no , any way out or chance of recovery ?
DATE: 2024-09-25
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fow17k/girlfriend_duped_out_of_28000_aed_in_uae_by_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi . Recently my girlfriend ( Indian ) in UAE received a text from an Indian no offering a job . She was hesitant at first but continued on a whim . The person asked her to subscribe to various YouTube channels for which she will receive a 10 aed reward . For this he asked for her bank details which she gave after some assurances of no foul play .
For this she directed my girlfriend to a telegram channel operated by another person. She did the subscription and got the money . This continued for around 10 transactions after which the telegram person told her of another job that will require a particular amount of investment but will give guaranteed returns . she agreed to it .
For this , she was directed to another telegram with 5-6 people ( don't know victims or co conspirators ) with a tutor managing the group who was in contact with the first telegram person .

They told her they represent the IHC , abu dhabi ( real company ) and will invest the money in various crypto currency . For this they had developed a fake website with the real company's name . Now telegram person 1 asked for various amounts to be deposited in various UAE based accounts . She invested first a small sum of 300 aed and got back 90 aed investment, further strengthening her belief . After this they asked for various amounts each larger than before and whenever she asked for a return told her to withdraw but that she had made a mistake while withdrawing . 

Now the case being put on her is that her demat account is frozen and she needs to pay 20 k aed more to unfreeze after which she can withdraw all remaining amount .

All this happened without mine or any of her family members knowledge .

Kindly guide on What to do next as the no of contact was Indian and in UAE as well ? 🙏