SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Need help filing a case against Spain based Music Distribution 
DATE: 2025-01-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1hr7d5q/need_help_filing_a_case_against_spain_based_music/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am looking for a lawyer who can help me with filing a case against a Spain based music distribution called Sepuchral Silence.

I started my music record label in the year 2020 to help small artists. Fast forward to year 2024, my label has grown pretty decent with multiple songs signed under. I shifted to this distribution because one of my online friend told me about it and started using them for distributing our releases. Smh few month back when I tried accessing the website, my account was banned. 

When I mailed them regarding this, they were like the song was created using AI and all our tracks which we released using them will be held by them for 5 years and takendown later from music platforms and all the collected royalties will be with them. If I ever want to get out of this, I have to pay 10$ per track itseems. In the first place, why tf do I have to pay them to takedown my content and how are they holding our songs and royalties for some fake reasons they made up?
I even said we can prove the track was infact created by a person and not a AI, but they stopped responding and even blocked me on instagram. I asked the producer to take a screenrecording of the music production to prove it was created by him and they aren't even responding when I mailed it to them. I have all proofs of the conversation and can explain further details to you. I am 20 and I have no idea how to move forward with this, if anyone can help me with this or you know someone who can help please let me know

I'm ready to payout aswell, I can give all my shares from the music (50%) to you, I just need to make sure we can give back the remaining royalties to the respective artists and their music.

Please let me know, me and all the artists would be forever grateful!