SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Business Investment Scam going around town - Caution
DATE: 2023-09-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/16p1bvt/business_investment_scam_going_around_town_caution/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I get a call from sis and bro in law to come and meet them at around 8pm at a cafe as they have something very important to talk. 

I reach home from work, rest for a while. Check my torrent downloads and think about running one out before the boring ass elders meet afterwards. 

I open the newly downloaded Hot bisexual interracial orgy porn video and to my surprise vlc player asks me, if I want to continue watching where i left. I am a bit petrified now. So i open the next video Gay Mormom boys after church sucking and Christ on a cob, vlc still asks me for if it want to continue where i left. I have never open these videos before. 

Now I am not thinking rationally and feel may be sister wants to meet because they stumbled upon my 50gb of bi,gay, transexual porn folder. 

I still go meet them nervously at a cafe, praying for the spirits of my gay brethren and sisterens to save me. But they ask me if they can borrow 2 lakhs from me . I am shocked and ask them why ?

Story starts a few weeks ago , They own a small call center and they were approached by extremely business looking two men who were apparently scouting for new business partners to manage their customer care dept of 20 seats. Bro is interested and sends a proposal and a presentation and even meets up with some Parsi foreign return Nri speaking on British accent. 

Finally they convince my broinlaw , that needs this super secure CRM software if he needs to win this contract and made him pay 2lacs to an account. And now they are absconding.

He tried reaching them and finally after a week they reached out to him and said sorry someone else won the contract as they had better infra and experience. And if my bro needs it he needs to pay 4 lacs additional to the procurement head. The software for which they paid and is supposed to be installed is nowhere in picture all this while. 

I told them this isn't how any contracts works, that 2 lacs is gone most likely, please don't pay. And if possible ask them to meet in person somehow and lay a trap. Asked them to file an FIR. 

This scam seems to have involved in person meeting and lot of time spent as well. They had even offered him a new office with 50 seater capacity and told him to pay deposit of 10lacs to the owner. the final contract is supposed to be for 14cr so they got blinded as well. 

I am so tired of all these scams and commen these days.

ps: also does vlc player have glitch were it wrongly shows the video as already played before ?