SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: FIVB takes charge of VFI with steering committee; raises visa, pending dues concerns with IOA
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-20
URL: https://theprint.in/sport/fivb-takes-charge-of-vfi-with-steering-committee-raises-visa-pending-dues-concerns-with-ioa/2885089/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 20 (PTI) The International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) has granted provisional recognition to the Volleyball Federation of India (VFI) while raising concerns with the IOA on the delay in granting visas to athletes for an event conducted this month and pending dues of over Rs three crore from private partners.
In three separate letters to Indian Olympic Association (IOA), the FIVB has also formed a steering committee to “ensure institutional coordination between the FIVB, IOA, and the VFI interim leadership, while safeguarding the interests of athletes and ensuring the continuity of national team programmes and international participation.” The recognition to VFI has been granted for eight months and the FIVB said it is being done “solely and exclusively to facilitate the release and utilisation of government funding due to VFI for preparation, training and participation” of Indian teams internationally.
The Steering Committee comprises IOA Executive Council member Rohit Rajpal, CEO Raghuram lyer, FIVB General Sports Director Steve Tutton, FIVB Head of Legal Affairs and General Counsel Stephen Bock and Hitesh Malhotra.
Show Full Article
Tutton, in a separate letter, has gone on to complain about visa issues faced by unspecified athletes who competed in a Beach Pro Tour competition in Bhubaneswar.
Twenty seven men’s teams and 22 women’s teams from 23 different countries took part in the Bhubaneswar Challenge.
Tutton also alleged that the FIVB has still not been paid its dues, which amount to over Rs three crore, for the Pro Tour events held in 2023 and 2024 in Goa and Chennai respectively in partnership with private clubs.
“It is too early to say anything. The IOA will need to study all the contracts, agreements, applications etc. to understand the true picture,” an IOA official told PTI when asked about the FIVB’s letter.
Another well-placed source questioned Tutton’s assertions on visa denial.
“Some of the applicants had violated the terms of the visa by competing in India while being on a tourist visa earlier and it was brought to the notice of the relevant authorities. A repeat application in such a scenario will obviously lead to greater scrutiny and delay,” said the source.
“As for the dues of over Rs 3 crore, the FIVB was very much a part of the ad-hoc committee that was running the show at that time. The VFI, at present, owes them nothing financially,” he added referring to the presence of FIVB Head of Legal Affairs and General Counsel Stephen Bock in the ad-hoc body that was constituted in mid-2023.
The steering committee formed by FIVB now virtually takes over the functioning of the VFI, which is currently headed by Virender Kanwar, who won the elections conducted last year.
It has empowered itself to establish a Selection Committee composed of national team coaches and technical experts responsible for recommending athletes for participation in international competitions.
“The Selection Committee shall operate independently and without any interference either from the VFI interim leadership or any other third parties appointed by VFI interim leadership,” the FIVB letter states.
“The Steering Committee shall supervise the process of restoring full governance within the VFI,” it asserts. PTI PM PM UNG
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.