SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammed by a fake recruiting company
DATE: 2024-06-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d656de/scammed_by_a_fake_recruiting_company/

--- POST TEXT ---

Got a message from Indeed asking if I was interested in a job (one that is relevant to me) starting at $25/hr. I live in an expensive city, but that was still a lot of money for the position. I clicked that I was interested and got a call from a supposed third party recruiting company. On the other end was a man with a thick Indian accent. He asked me the normal questions about my experience, but then asked me very narrow questions that I could only answer yes or no to. Eventually, he asked me for my birthday (month and day) then the last four digits of my SSN to create an ID for me in case someone of the same first and last name applied. That’s when I was about to hang up the phone, but my mother (who was silently listening off to the side) told me to give it to him. Being young and trusting my mother, I did.

All afternoon I’d get emails from the “recruiter” asking questions that were already answered on my resumé, asking me to explain gaps in time, etc. Then he sent me a Word doc with a reformatted and reworded resume, and asked me to approve it. He’d call a total of 5 times in a couple of hours to rush me through the process until he could submit the application to the hiring company. The last call I got was from an Indian woman instead, my recruiter’s supposed manager, asking me to clarify other gaps of time.

That’s when I found tons of 1 star reviews on BBB and Yelp for this company, saying it’s a scam. Apparently a few people were getting their emails hacked, getting non stop calls — these scammers even found ways to contact people’s parents. I’m afraid I 1) gave away too much information with the last 4 digits of my SSN, and 2) gave them access to my email or computer by clicking on that Word document. I’ve reinforced my emails with every security measure I could possibly think of and have been checking which devices they are logged into my emails.

This is the first time this has ever happened to me and it has caused a significant amount of stress and anxiety. I’m having nightmares of them hacking into my emails. I feel so stupid.

Any further actions I can take?