SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Received a Call from a person pretending to be TRAI and Mumbai Police 
DATE: 2024-06-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dlcrsq/received_a_call_from_a_person_pretending_to_be/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, 
Today I've received a call, it was an automated message in the beginning, that said they were gonna deactivate my number within two hours, and asked me to press 9 to talk to their customer care executive, when I pressed 9, a guy was on the line and he basically told me that there was a number on my name which was carrying out fraudulent activity such as sending harassing texts, he told me the details of the phone number, from where that Sim card was purchased etc, Then he asked me if I can reach the Mumbai police station ( also mentioned the branch but I don't remember now, coz I've never been to Mumbai ). Then he told me that there's a possibility that i can register the compliant online and connected my call with a person who was claming to be from Mumbai police. She basically asked my name, age and my profession. Then she asked me to join on a call w her on skype which I did, there I have given my aadhar number and address, Then she told she had to check my aadhar number with some other personal to see if there're any existing cases on me, after a few seconds a person on the walkie talkie replied that there's a money laundering case and a canara bank account registered under my name, I denied to all of that, then at some point she asked me about my bank balance (I'm a 19 year old student, so I didn't have alot of money in my bank ) I told her I have around 2k, then she asked me if I have any mutual funds or fds on my name and I said No, then she just told me she'll talk to her superior and help me out in this case, she told me that it would take 15 days to proceed with the investigation and would call me back if it's necessary. 

Now, I know it's foolish of me to believe them and share my aadhar number and address with them. I'm being honest I wasn't aware of any scams like this previously, and that lady was so believable that she started lecturing me about things like "you shouldn't be giving your aadhar to everyone, always take care of whom you're sharing your personal details with, etc etc".

My questions here are : 
 What do you guys suggest me to do?
 Are there any potential risks like identity theft with the aadhar number and address? 
I've read on reddit that they might tamper the video and use it for KYC, is it actually possible? 

Thankyou for taking your time to read this.