SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: FAKE FEDEX SCAM ARTISTS FROM INDIA
DATE: 2018-01-29
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/7tto7m/fake_fedex_scam_artists_from_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

***Important Message***

Hey guys, I just wanted to warn everyone about scam artists (from India) posing as "FEDEX" and using their real contact number to call and arrange a delivery of a package.

Background on what happened a few minutes ago:

I'm sitting at work and I notice 2 missed calls from a 1-800 number on my cell. I call back and I realize it's FedEx based on the automated prompts and introductory message. I speak to a representative and she seemed to have absolutely no idea why FedEx called especially because there wasn't a message left on my voicemail. As she was confirming if there was a package and also confirming the number that called me which was the same as FedEx's number (1-800-463-3339) that same exact number called again while I was on the line with her! I answered the call and it was a male with a heavy/distinct Indian accent and the line seemed a bit choppy as if it were a long distance call. 

The guy started to sound super shady. He knew my first name and confirmed my mailing address and stated there's a package from Ottawa that needs to be delivered. He asked if I am home right now and also asked who is available at home. He then wanted a cell phone number of anyone living at home to drop the package off. &lt;--- Major Red Flags.

I asked to speak to his Manager and he put me on a brief 30 second hold and then the same guy resumes the call after lowering his voice. I knew it was a scam right away and I called him out on it. The scam artist was immediately frustrated and started to swear: "YOU'RE A BASTARD GUY, YOU KNOW THAT?". I started laughing and said I knew he was a scam artist from India because I've read online about stories of fake calls from Microsoft, or CRA (Canada Revenue Agency) and else where asking for money. He continued to swear and eventually hung up the call.

I called back FedEx and reported the incident in detail. FedEx also confirmed there wasn't a package nor anything required for them to provide such a call and ask for that kind of information. I looked online and others have experienced this as well.

Essentially, these scam artists set up these calls to ensure nobody is at home so they have people come in and break and enter and rob your home.

Here's more information:

In the Delivery Break In scam, victims will receive a phone call from "Fed Ex" or "UPS" advising them of a pending package delivery. The caller wants to know when the best day to deliver would be.

Victims will typically say something such as "Monday is no good; I have to work and nobody will be here to receive the package." This is all the verification the caller needs. They now know the victim will be gone on Monday and when the unwitting victim comes home from work Monday evening, they are greeted by the sight of a house that has been broken in to and burglarized.