SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Amazon contractors possibly attempting fraud?
DATE: 2020-11-01
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/jlnpmu/amazon_contractors_possibly_attempting_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi,

This is the only place I could find that may be able to offer some insight into this, apologies if this is not the right topic for this sub.

Backstory: I have pre-ordered the PS5, spare controller and couple of games from Amazon UK. ABout 2 - 3 days ago I contacted amazon via the chat assistant thing on the website to try and find out when the would take the payment.(money is in my savings and would need to be transferred to current account)

The amazon associate at the time(Indian name) told me when they would likely take were the money. All good. I then thought it might be easier to transfer the order value into my gift card and essentially pre-pay for the order. I asked the chat assistant if I could do this and his replies where a bit strange.

When I asked if I could transfer the money he replied "Yes, Please" and asked if I had put the money in already. I said I would put it in in a couple of days. He said he would keep an eye on the order or words to that effect.

His replies where a bit odd but I thought maybe he just had bad English.

Today, I decided to transfer the order value to my gift card, so I did that. A couple of minutes later, I got a phone call but didn't answer in time. Whoever it was left a voice message. The person said they were from Amazon and needed confirmation to process my order.

Of course, I contacted amazon chat again and they told me the call wasn't from them.

I've not been defrauded, thankfully. But was wondering if anyone else has encountered this from someone saying they are from amazon? Seems someone was waiting to see if I topped up the gift card.

I'm not sure what they hoped to achieve if I did take the call, maybe just try and get my card details or something.

Has anyone else encountered a fraud attempt like this?