SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Flipkart Delivery Guy Tried To Scam Me out of Rs5000
DATE: 2024-09-25
SCORE: 296
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1folsro/flipkart_delivery_guy_tried_to_scam_me_out_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

I bought a Samsung S24+ for Rs70k+ and exchanged old device which valued Rs12,925, including a Rs10,000 exchange bonus. First of all he said I would get a notification in the Flipkart app about my exchange, and he left, saying he had other deliveries. I got an SMS for consent for exchange which I provided. The delivery guy then called me from his personal number and asked me to pay Rs5000 Extra, even after of Rs 10000 bonus. This doesn’t make sense at all. Even in the worst case, I would only have to pay maybe ₹2.5k to ₹2.9k. Then he had the nerve to ask me to transfer ₹3,000 directly to him if I wanted the phone delivered! His exact words were "Company ko denge toh 5000 dene padenge, mujhe 3000 do abhi kar dunga", I refused and confronted saying that 10k was the exchange bonus to which he replied with "3000 toh fir bhi dena hi padega na". I was not able to record this call as I have been doing online purchase for years and this was just another delivery for me but it went other way.

I asked him to come to the address and I will pay the remaining amount, but I guess till now he felt that I knew this is a scam. He tried raising a cancellation request showing that I am refusing delivery and I received an OTP for cancellation. He said "Sir OTP aaya hoga exchange ke liye", I said that I won't give any OTP unless he is on the address and he disconnected the call.

I tried calling him back, with intention to record it on call and ask him to visit the address so that I can record him on camera, but he didn’t pick up. Later, I got a message that my order was canceled, without any OTP or approval from me. Now, I’m being refunded the amount with Rs199 less, meaning I lost ₹199 for the pickup charge due to Flipkart team’s mistake and the delivery guy's unprofessional behavior. In the end, I didn’t get my order, I lost ₹199, and I’ve had to deal with this awful service. Some reddit users suggested that I will receive this ₹199 refund too but I have not received any message till now regarding this.

And the support guys are just cherry on top, "Sir nothing can be done now as the order is cancelled" LOL atleast register a complaint if I am saying so, I have to literally school a support girl to get my complaint registered.

My order was cancelled stating that the product is damaged. No OTP, no Email, just a refund message.

I might have avoided a potential scam but don't know how many decent buyers fall for such scams daily. I just want to keep everyone aware on this and possibly need advise on the ways action can be taken on the delivery guy. I don't think Flipkart will take my complaints seriously but I lack any evidence to make it a strong case.

 
Edit: What I have done till now - 10+ calls to support. Posted on Twitter and Reddit. Registered complaint to social media team and normal support team. I asked the support guy twice if I will get the pickup charges refunded as its not my mistake, he said no. He had no resolution except registering a complaint, which I did.

Edit 2: FK support team says they are able to see the exchange value of Rs12726, so ideally I should’ve paid only the 150-200rs difference.