SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I just sent this email to Airtel. Posting here too, because I am lost on how to deal with these people[NP]
DATE: 2016-11-14
SCORE: 28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5cvwpb/i_just_sent_this_email_to_airtel_posting_here_too/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi,

I have tried to get in touch with you via phone for the past hour or so and I have been unable to get a single representative on the phone. I have been unable to receive any form of assistance and you have intentionally shut down all forms of communication. Your landline number has been shut down / changed and your stupid IVRS has eaten up even more of my time and money. 

Trust me when I say that I am fuming. I thought I would have a better experience with Airtel than ACT but you lot are just thugs. The moment billing is due, you start dropping mails and calling at all sorts of times and yet when it comes to registering a complaint you are nowhere to be seen. In fact if I try to call your Karnataka number to register a grievance the number is not even valid, and the number provided to lodge appeals requires a token number, which to no surprise I cannot give because YOU HAVE SHUT DOWN ALL MEANS OF REGISTERING COMPLAINTS! Nice little scam you are running. 

I don't even know what I am paying for. The emails you send your bill in only display the final amount. The PDF containing the breakdown is bloody password protected! I have had 3 set of conversation with you over the past 3 months, and the only thing that has consistently happened in this time has been that my bill has increased. In fact the only channel that seems open to contact you is your 121 number which is available exclusively to - lo and behold - Airtel phone users. So, what's the grand idea, you want me to buy into one of your plans, pay you even more money? Please note, this last question is entirely rhetorical. I am absolutely convinced that that is in fact exactly the idea, and frankly I have had enough. 

I have not seen such an institutionalized effort to hoodwink and scam customers from a large business entity anywhere before - but at least you are innovating in some aspects of business. However, as I stated before, I have had enough.

I know this won't spoil your day because you don't give a shit.

Sincerely,

Prakhar