SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I Received a Call about a Fake Grant Scam
DATE: 2016-09-10
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/520rtj/i_received_a_call_about_a_fake_grant_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don't always answer a call without knowing who it is, but there was a 702 area code and my daughter lives out there, so I answered it. The guy sounded like he had 10 cotton balls in his mouth, filled with mush. (kind of like the Godfather but with an Indian accent..) I could barely understand him. He had long pauses of silence and he kept saying, "Are you there?" I said, "Yeah, what do you want?" 

He went into this speech about how I was accepted for a special free grant and his voice sounded like he was from India trying very hard to speak normal... but I knew that was impossible because he was very slow in speech and had no brain inside his skull. 

I cut him off because I was expecting another call and hung up on him. If I would have had the time, I would have bulleted him with questions. So, instead, I looked up the number he called me from. It was to a construction site in Las Vegas. This site purported to have 6 well known clients, none of which you could click on, so I had to look and see/look them up and none of them existed. 

The phone for the construction site, is answered in a generic voicemail, which did not seem normal, as this is supposed to be a major construction company, calling them in the middle of day and no identification as to the greeting, that it even WAS a construction company. 

I went to another site (I was really trying to let the business the caller ID number came from be warned about the spoofed number) So, I go back on the website (all the while, waiting for FedEx to call me) and there was a number. I called it. It said, "You have reached Roto Rooter." I said what the heck, let me hear who answers. A guy answered and he sounded just like the scammer with the mouth full of mush! I got tired of investigating the call ...but it's my first Fake Grant Scam call or what I believe to be, as I should have let the scammer play it out on the phone but I was too busy. But the number he called me from was leading me nowhere.