SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: An ex-Swiggy delivery guy here wants to clear a few COD queries.
DATE: 2023-09-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/16nn59y/an_exswiggy_delivery_guy_here_wants_to_clear_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

Itachi ordered Pizza from XYZ cafe, and he chose the mode of payment as Cash on Delivery (COD). 

I as a delivery guy pick it up, there is a note on the delivery about the mode of payment and there are notifications to get the cash from the customer apart from the horror 90s tring tring SOS tune for picking up the order, lol.

I reached the location, and I asked Itachi to pay on my Gpay/Phone QR code, there is no QR code from Swiggy which some people were saying (As of 2023, when I worked).

Even if you argue, that Itachi has cash/change then why the hell I'm still persisting to pay on a personal QR code?

Well, here's the deal:

1. Itachi gives me cash, I've to go to an ATM and deposit it. It's time time-consuming process coz working on Saturday/Sunday was a lucky day for us, working full time for delivery is not easy, no weekend chuti like how corporate has, then find the ATM of ICICI/Axis Bank, enter the details, and wait for the deposit success thing. Additionally, people may say that depositing money is so simple! Nope, it's not. I didn't have a single minute to sit or wait except in the restaurant, once 1 delivery was done, I had to pick up another delivery option from the app within the next 30 seconds and then go to the pick-up location, I couldn't reject it coz the more deliveries I rejected the fewer incentives, and salary I will get + in worse case I might have been banned from the app.
2. Itachi has empathy, and on my request, he pays it on my QR code, be it Gpay/PhonePe/XYZ UPI.
3. Itachi chose COD, but doesn't have cash or has but he will instantly say to show my UPI code instead of waiting for me to say it. Cool and empathy wala itachi, lol.

In that fair-skinned guy's post, he didn't have money in his UPI account which is fine but most of the delivery guys are not that knowledgeable and want to just do the work fast. In case, this guy did give money to him using UPI on his code HE HAS TO PAY THE DAMN MONEY TO THE SWIGGY USING HIS DELIVERY APP AND TRANSFER THE MONEY AGAIN FROM UPI.

So, no way he was pulling some scam or fraud, that doesn't mean all delivery folks are gareeb manus, some are arrogant but it is what it is. Don't get angry and start fighting with the delivery folks, some are school drop-outs, and we were/are going through financial difficulties, and dealing with customers like this fair-skinned Redditor or some Indian Karens is not easy. Hardly anybody gives tips offline, like 10/20/30 rupees let alone a simple gratitude: "Thank you dada/bhaiya/bro"

I left that job due to a petrol price surge and a low salary.

So, keep empathy, and don't lose your patience. 

The Karens were shouting to stay where I was standing and not to enter the premises or touch the lift, the building was not some tower. Just some chapri 20-year-old building with gate wali lift. Their husband(s) were kind and told me to ignore their shouting.