SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: 31M, came back. Need advice for paramedical diplomas (General Nursing &amp; Midwifery) OR (Radiological Tech).
DATE: 2025-02-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1im4ctq/31m_came_back_need_advice_for_paramedical/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys, 31M here US citizen here awaiting 6 months for my aadhar here in BLR. I got my bachelors in behavioral health in the US back in 2016. I got a low gpa and have no interest in pursuing a masters and even ppl in the US with masters who go into social work don't get paid enough and have to run around alot and it's just not mainstream job. I thought with a bachelor's i should be able to get ANY $60k job in US as a college grad. But after graduating college, I realized the brutal reality of what it takes to ACTUALLY get a job regardless of having a bachelor's and we can't get ANY $60k job (since they ask for skillset, experience and having introduced to the hiring manager and company ppl via internships). No one told me about the trackpath of how I should be getting ready in developing my resume in the background while I was in college to SELL MYSELF TO fortune 500 companies...and since it's nearly impossible even now to get hired as an out of state applicant even in the US - especially when you don't have sought after skillset ESPECIALLY with no experience... I started doing my research on reddit back in 2016 and 2017 after graduating and after settling for a 3 yr call center job at BoFA (which went nowhere for me - since the dept and site I was in didn't care about professional development of employees and everyone there was useless to me and micromanaging and a toxic environment) I found out via online for grads struggling like me similar to my position... college is a scam in our generation and we're just told to get a degree and start working without any step by step help of how to actually secure a job, its like a dating lottery. Anyway, I would've kept trying to shift to a different industry but unfortunately I was born to a backwards disrespectful financially coersive father who doesn't listen and would not let me be on free govt health insurance (Medicaid) so that I could've stayed at home to upskill for free in order to enter a better industry, but he didn't listen and you have to make 3x the advertised rent in US in order to live on your own and I didn't have time to make a decent friend since u was constantly trying not to fail my classes in college and just get my bachelor's regardless of my GPA. So i couldn't afford to move out in US nor have a friend to move in with even after working for 3 yrs in a call center to find a friendly coworker. So from 2012 to December 2024 I struggled unnecessarily and in order to get away from him and to avoid him from physical assulting my mom over the years. I took my prescence out of his house and had no choice but to come back to BLR. 

My question: I've done the research that no one really tells students of what industries are worth pursuing in this world and with my poor academic background due to the hard science prerequisite courses kicking my butt (which are useless and not needed ever in the work place btw even as a doctor/engineer/financial analyst or any other profession UNLESS if you end up being a scientist or going into academic research...) they don't give students the choice to NOT take chem, bio, physics, etc and just throw these courses in the first year to make students fail so the colleges can have a reason to loot the students both in US and in India I'm sure. 

I figured now I can't become a doctor, lawyer, accountant, or financial analyst - I'm poor at hard sciences and math - I do decent at high school level algebra, bio, anatomy and phys but that's it, I almost failed high school chemistry too. I hate high level quantitative chem, trig, precalc and beyond. Totally unnecessary. 

Industries left for me in India now after doing my research: 

 paramedical job (3 yr nursing and midwifery or 2 yr radiological technician)

supply chain (I might have to get my MBA first for this online), 

Insurance claims adjuster/broker (same for this), 

HR or sales (MBA might help with this as well)

IT (software dev or cybersecurity - I know if I do a Cybersec. masters online - I can stand a chance at getting a job in this), 

Design engineer - (although I don't have a mechanical engineer degree for this - at this point I'll take another break and I'll have to do more research on just upskill for free online and see if BLR or if there is a popular certificate or diploma that are valued for these types of jobs in India (AutoCAD/CNC machinist (programmer))...I'll have to research the # of jobs in the market to see how cutthroat it is and weather it's worth pursuing since i would be entry level AND if there are barely any jobs for this even tho it seems needed in the robotics, civil engineering and mechanical engineering space. 
 

Now, if it's up to me, I don't even want to spend money on going back to school. I hate doing this nonsense, but it's not up to me, it's society/ job market/industry standard rules. So my first try will be towards ONE of the paramedical diplomas (I ran the analysis on pursing one of these two courses and I needed to know how the work life is for a 3 yr nursing diploma grad - what nursing colleges in BLR are accredited for me to sit for the Indian national licensing nurse exam if I do this course - how many jobs are available in BLR vs. doing the Radiological tech diploma and same questions for this as well (work life balance and # of jobs per quarter within a year in BLR for Xray techs). I know that with atleast a paramedical national license I can get employed fast and there is the stability that paramedical jobs, supply chain or insurance jobs give unlike IT, HR and sales. I have checked with KIMS medical college and they do say it's possible for me to get registered for the 3 yr nursing diploma even if they count my USA bachelor's degree based on the courses I've finished in the US...but I still need to see the course syllabus for these 2 diplomas I'm considering so that I don't fail the first year courses again like I did during my US bachelor's with "C" grades or lower and I plan on studying for these pre-reqs hard science courses 6-8 months ahead of time before I even register for these diploma courses. 

But if can't successfully pass the paramedical diplomas, then I move onto supply chain, insurance, HR/sales in that order bcuz u know trying to crack IT will be even harder, but by then if nothing works out, I'll have enough time in my life to do nothing but trying to wrap my head around IT or if that doesn't work, I'll try to build an online social media business/learn about how the startup world works and pursue entrepreneurship. There are a few trades profession I have in mind as well that I can potentially turn into a business as well if it works out for me if non of the above works out for me - but at this point I know I'd have honestly tried everything without me having to work some random job JUST to get health insurance or satistify income based Health insurance thresholds annually on Obamacare and deal with complex tax filing AND THOUSANDS to paying taxes JUST to be eligible to sign up for Obamacare and qualify for AFFORDABLE health insurance monthly premiums like I was forced to do in the US due to my father getting in my way unfortunately. 

Thoughts, opinions, perspectives guys? I'd need advice and direction from current nurses/medicos/xray Techs or anyone that knows ppl in either of the two paramedical jobs that I was talking about above for me to decide for what I'm seeking to invest my time, money and effort into to finally start saving my life financially and stand on my own two feet. Thanks guys. 🙏 . 

TLDR: What's the highest paying job in Bangalore that's in a stable industry that doesn't require a 4 yr degree but a 6 month cert or at MAX a 2 yr diploma + lots job openings that can give me ₹50k - 2lakh/month immediately after me finishing a 6 month cert or 2 yr diploma? My research based on the above info/LLM analysis has presented to me that GNM or DRT diploma trackpaths are the only popular non-niche areas with lots of jobs since I'll also be having a license once I pass a national registration exam after the diploma JUST so I can get employed asap with the highest chance of employment and lowest chance of competition and lowest chance of running into hiring managers that are overwhelmed with applicants.