SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The art of cheating travellers at dhabas
DATE: 2018-07-19
SCORE: 405
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/903opf/the_art_of_cheating_travellers_at_dhabas/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was travelling from Hyderabad to Bangalore on a weekday in a bus. At around 11pm the bus stopped at a restaurant/dhaba for dinner somewhere before the Karnataka border . Before deboarding the driver informed that there is some problem with the bus and it may take about an hour before we resume the journey and so asked the passengers to have their dinner at leisure.

I got down half asleep, attended my nature's call and slowly proceeded to grab a table for dinner. With no menu cards anywhere, I began looking at what other people were eating. As I was doing so a waiter approached my table and asked "Chapathi or Rice"? I saw that the person sitting in front of me was having Chapathi and Egg curry and it looked delicious. I ordered the same.

My food came in 2 minutes. I was halfway into my meal and my table mate  who helped me decide my food was paying his bill. The waiter came and gave him a piece of paper (not a proper bill) and I saw him clearly paying Rs.120 and leave. After some time I finished my dinner and when the waiter came I handed him Rs.120 thinking since we ordered the same item the bill would be same.

He then said "Sir, its 150" and handed me a piece of paper written so. I inquired that the guy who sat in front of me paid only 120 for the same item. He said you're mistaken Sir, he paid 150 only. I didn't want to argue for Rs.30 so I paid the amount in full. I went to the Irani Chai stall outside the hotel to drink and pass the time till the bus gets repaired.

Few minutes later my waiter came out to smoke a cigarette and was speaking in Kannada (my mother tongue) on his mobile. As soon as he finished his call I asked "Anna cigarette jothe tea thogothira"? which translates to "Brother would you like a cup of tea with your cigarette". He agreed.

We exchanged some brief pleasantries and then realizing I had established some trust I began to ask him more specific and bold questions. The resulting the conversation was really fascinating.

Deepak : "That was beautiful how you conned me of Rs.30"

Waiter : " (Laughs) you noticed"

D : "Wont the owner be angry if he finds out you're overcharging customers?"

(Owner sits at the billing counter at the entrance of the dhaba)

W : "(Laughs harder) everyone in the hotel staff is in on it, part of the skimmed money goes to the owner only"

D : "Aren't you guys afraid if the customers create a scene?"

W : "Brother let me tell you something, travellers are the easiest people to cheat - they are always in a hurry, they are anxious because of new environment and wont create a scene, the best part is you wont see them again even if they do create a ruckus"

D : "Makes sense, how do you stop yourself from getting overzealous and greedy, you could have charged me Rs.200 instead of 150"

W : "There is a manager for every 4 waiters, he oversees their activities and action is taken if some mischievous activities are undertaken by the waiters, it may even lead to termination. I have seen a lot of waiters getting fired since I started working here. People are dying to work here as waiters because of the extra amount they get by scamming the unsuspecting travellers. The worst part is every bill goes through the owner and hence very less avenue to be creative. However whatever we make after the cut to the owner is ours for the take"

D : "What are the factors you look at while overcharging customers?"

W : "Brother before we continue can you buy me another cup of tea and some cigarettes"?

D : Sure ( I was hooked at this point)

W : "The first give away is the clothes, anyone wearing fancy clothes is high value customer, I mean look at yourself with your shorts and fancy slippers (I was wearing crocs), sometimes us waiters fight to serve customers like you. The second is number of people travelling together. Ideally if someone is travelling alone or in a group of 4+, these guys have the least likelihood of arguing. These are not hard and fast rules, you need to adapt according to conditions. Once there was a customer who was well dressed yet was cautious, he had carried his laptop bag also with him to the hotel and was asking for the price before ordering. You don't scam customers like that"

(Another bus parks at the dhaba and he prepares to get back inside)

D : "Thanks for the info Sir, you disclosed it rather easily. Aren't you afraid that I might complain n stuff?"

W : "This is the situation wherever you find travellers, be it dhabas, railway stations, bus station etc. We are not the only ones scamming customers. Don't blame the Tiger just because deers are weak"

The conversation came to a abrupt halt, I wanted to listen more but I guess the thing about complaining really rubbed him the wrong way. I would have loved to hear more nuances of the cheating but unfortunately I have to be content with this for the time being. I came back to my seat and was thinking about what he said, it made a lot of sense. I shared it with my close ones, some of them had their suspicions and some were as astonished as me.

Anyway what is the take away from this and how do we as customers be more vigilant. The best lesson comes from the waiter himself, always ask for prices before hand, go in detail if you have to, make sure that you give them a impression that you are smart person and that will scare most of the scammers away.

You really cant blame the tiger for hunting deers, but we as deers can sure as hell give them a run for their money.