SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Potential Recruitment Scam (Not sure if I am being scammed or not)
DATE: 2020-11-24
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/k09hug/potential_recruitment_scam_not_sure_if_i_am_being/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have been searching for contact tracing gigs for a while now as it is my preferred method of working during COVID times. I had finished a contract and have been looking for a new one. This week, I was reached out to by a recruiter from a company named Trioptus informing me of a job opening for contact tracing. Not sure if I am allowed to talk about locations as it might be identifying info, but the location for this job is a long distance from where I am now.

My resume is available on my LinkedIn and other job searching sites, so that might be how I was found. I have been sent a lot of "job offers" to my email that are just clearly scams trying to harvest my info to sell to advertisers/spammers/etc. This is the first one I have received that has a company name to it and an official website. Furthermore, the recruiter in the email also has links to Trioptus' FB page and LinkedIn, official website, and a link to her personal LinkedIn. A quick glance at her LinkedIn makes it look rather legit. Lots of work experience and recommendations from other accounts and people.

So I decided to give it a shot and responded to the email saying I was interested in the position and shared my phone number. She gave me a call literally within a minute of sending my email. The call came from the same number that was listed in the email for Trioptus. She talked about the pay, the exact facility that I would be working at, and other fine details. Only issue was I did not have a BLS certification, but she told me I could get it easily online and is required for the posted job. She then said she needs my SSN and would be sending a form that I would fill that information in along with other info. I have not received this email yet. Once she receives this info, I would be on track to start working there in two weeks.

I've been trying to do due diligence on the company, but nothing really comes up on searches other than their FB page, LinkedIn page, and their official website. The company is based out of India and has an office in the States, but something about this just seems fishy to me. Everything about the company, the recruiter herself looks so legit, but the situation at hand just seems odd. What say you, am I in the process of getting scammed at the moment? What else could I do to try and verify the validity of this email? A lot of this stems from job hunting being so different nowadays, I can't tell what are legitimate opportunities and what are scams anymore.