SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Credit card scam alert : priviliged information leaked
DATE: 2024-04-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1bw6xcv/credit_card_scam_alert_priviliged_information/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, i came across some sort of phishing scam, realized thus mid of the call and blocked the caller. 

Bakground: I have bunch of credit cards and latest one to add was a ltf from indusind. I got this around a month back and have at home. Primary cc is from hdfc and I rarely carry other cards. 

I got a call yesterday who introduced themselves as indusind credit card dept employee and asked me if I have activated my newly received card. He was specific enough to mention the type of card and my full name.
 
I thought this is followup call so told him yes, its activated and I also made some transactions. 

He proceeds to tell me that although mine is LTF card I had inactivated the card wrongly and hence it got converted to normal paid card and has added rs.3500 as annually fees. 

He would guide me to get this corrected, he told me to install the Indusind app and he would send me the link to install this. 

Within 5 seconds, I get whatsapp message with attached apk file(Named Indus ind application or something similar.). 
I then understood this is a scam, 
Told him I won't install the app provided over whatsapp and will do only through Google play. He got defensive and told the one in playstore is old and they won't ask any OTP or other details. 

He proceeds to tell me my pan no, full address, employer name, etc. I then realised that this is def a scam. So went ahead and blocked that number. He tried calling back from another number, but I unblocked it too. 

What is alarming is, all the details he told were correct. So there has been data leak, but I don't know from where. 

This is a PSA post, to avert such scams. Don't install apk files that is not from play store or trusted sources. 

Numbers I got call from :

+918910960924
+918981906069