SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: In need of urgent Help
DATE: 2024-09-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ft1if3/in_need_of_urgent_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

How a woman can ruin lives

I’ll keep it simple so it’s easier to understand. 

So there’s this woman who is my friend’s Girlfriend. We were a group of 4-5 friends &amp; everything was going well, until we come to know that friend’s girlfriend is getting married. My friend’s girlfriend was very clear about marrying someone else who is richer and can provide. My friend was given one year to prove himself but he couldn’t, so her girlfriend started seeing boys and she even found one An Indian guy who is well settled in Australia. 

All this happened, we were feeling sad for my friend who has now became an alcoholic. So One day her Girlfriend texted me to meet and talk. As a good friend I Met her. We talked, she told how my friend didn’t do anything for her while in relationship. 4 years of relationship and my friend didn’t even take her to a movie, how he would take money from her for recharge and alcohol. This went on for a hour or so. So I told her to just leave him Bcoz you’re already engaged to this NRI guy, concentrate on your new relationship and move on.

She had told me that now she’d stop meeting and texting and all and move on. 

After a few days, this woman My friend’s Girlfriend went to my friend and told him that I have had a crush on her this whole time and he told me this and that. My friend was furious. He started removing me from groups started giving threats and I was like WTH just happened. This woman told me something else and she did the opposite.

She was well meeting with my friend. They are still enjoying and having fun while she’s engaged to this NRI guy. And all my friends just abondoned me without even listening to me. This has made me depressed, lonely and angry.

I don’t understand what and why she did this to me. So me in anger, texted her NRI fiancé relative and told them that she’s still having a affair with her ex who is my friend, which has caused problem for her. 

So in the end, she’s played with my friend, ruined my credibility and reputation as a friend for no reason, while she’s engaged to this NRI guy. And now she’s threatening me that she’ll go to the police or cyber crime. Please tell me now what to do about.