SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Pakistan bowler Naseem Shah asked why Maryam Nawaz got queen treatment. Imran fans jumped in
AUTHOR: Debdutta Chakraborty
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/go-to-pakistan/pakistan-bowler-naseem-shah-asked-why-maryam-nawaz-got-queen-treatment-imran-fans-jumped-in/2890137/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Pakistani cricketer Naseem Shah asked on X why Punjab Chief Minister and PML (N) leader Maryam Nawaz was being treated like “a queen” during a cricket match and set off a free-for-all between her supporters and critics.
Shah faces a likely ban for the now deleted post, though he is claiming that his account was hacked.
The moment came during Thursday’s Pakistan Super League opener between Lahore Qalandars and Hyderabad Kingsmen. Maryam Nawaz, daughter of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, was at Lahore’s Gaddafi Stadium as guest of honour.
Show Full Article
When the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) shared a picture of her walking to the stage with the body’s chief Mohsin Naqvi, Shah responded —  “Why is she being treated like the queen at Lords?”
The controversy has drawn a variety of reactions from Pakistanis. Some are applauding him for speaking ‘against the regime’, others are unearthing his old fan posts on Imran Khan, while the rest are questioning the politicisation of Pakistani cricket.
Also Read
:
Why are Pakistanis angry with David Warner now? He called PSL captains ‘school kids’
From ‘queen’ to former PMs
Humour has been a common thread across the political divide in Pakistan.
Reacting to the audacity of Naseem Shah’s pronouncement, Pakistani X handle @iffiViews shared an old clip of Bilawal Bhutto Zardari speaking in broken Urdu. The PPP leader is seen issuing some kind of warning: “What I do next is something you will never forget for generations.” The caption wryly notes: “Naseem Shah’s manager handling his career.”
Naseem Shah’s manager handling his career
pic.twitter.com/sM3KvVp5ZU
https://t.co/VkO4nD5TPG
— iffi (@iffiViews)
March 26, 2026
Soon appeared an old video showing Shah shaking hands with PCB head Mohsin Naqvi, who is also Pakistan’s Interior Minister. The fast bowler smiles during the handshake and then his expression appears to quickly change into a glare.
NASEEM SHAH. I WASNT FAMILIAR WITH YOUR GAME.
pic.twitter.com/KRPe1dPMnE
— noor🍓|quaidi no. 804 stan (@stfumoik)
March 27, 2026
Focus also turned on Shah’s cricket.
“He knows that he’s washed and he has never won a match for Pakistan with his bowling and his bowling is getting worse. He’s pulling the youthiya card so that when he inevitably gets dropped he can cry political victimization,” wrote @GongR1ght.  Fans of Imran Khan are colloquially referred to as ‘youthiyas’ in Pakistan.
Naseem Shah knew exactly what he was doing. He knows that he’s washed and he has never won a match for Pakistan with his bowling and his bowling is getting worse.
He’s pulling the youthiya card so that when he inevitably gets dropped he can cry political victimization.
pic.twitter.com/QLd5efYXaR
— yang goi (@GongR1ght)
March 27, 2026
Another X handle @Catlux2 wanted Shah to own it: “If Naseem Shah has done it in reality, he should accept it and not hide behind the ‘HACK’ scenario,” she wrote.
If Naseem Shah has done it in reality , he should accept it and not hide behind the “HACK” scenario .
Youthias are anyways spoiling your career what ever is left of it . they are not helping Naseem …
And yeh none of you have seen the testament of Queen in Lords .
— JustMe (@Catlux2)
March 27, 2026
Others called out the politicisation of cricket in a country where the PCB chief is also a minister in the Shehbaz Sharif led government.
“Enough of politics in cricket, that’s why it’s ruined! Why aren’t Naqvi sahib taking any action? Why are guys like Naseem Shah in the team? Why hasn’t action been taken against him yet? Who will answer this,” asked @KarTjzy5815.
Enough of politics in cricket, that's why it's ruined! Why aren't Nakwi sahib taking any action? Why are guys like Naseem Shah in the team? Why hasn't action been taken against him yet? Who will answer this? 😒
— سیاسی تجزیہ کار (@KarTjzy5815)
March 27, 2026
Others chose to focus less on blame and more on the potential fallout.
“Naseem Shah, what have you done? Tough days ahead for Naseem,” wrote
@
CallMeSheri1_.
Naseem Shah, what have you done. Tough days ahead for Naseem.
— Sheri. (@CallMeSheri1_)
March 26, 2026
An apparent Imran Khan fan, one Abdullah, with the handle @michaelscottfc, pointed out that Maryam had got a “reality check” and that most Pakistanis wondered why she got  “queen treatment”.
Jo bhi kaho maa ji ko reality check to mil gaya. No amount of PR campaigns or billboards with her face on them will change the fact that the majority of Pakistanis feel one thing about her why is she treated like the queen at lord's.
— Abdullah (@michaelscottfc)
March 26, 2026
References to jailed Pakistani cricketer and former PM Imran Khan also came up.  The handle @rantspakistani shared screenshots of Nawaz Sharif’s batting performance at a
1973 match
for Railways against PIA. He’d scored a duck.
“It’s not Naseem Shah’s fault. Cricket and cricketers have just never been kind to Sharifs,” said the caption.
It’s not Naseem Shah’s fault. Cricket and cricketers have just never been kind to Sharifs
pic.twitter.com/QRO8wNQeUX
— rants (@rantspakistani)
March 26, 2026
The best reaction perhaps came from Pakistani handle @fiftyoverwc, who simply shared a screenshot of Naseem Shah’s post and captioned it: “Hang it in the Louvre”.
hang it in the Louvre 😭
pic.twitter.com/5pHS8Y7Utw
— Tasneem🇵🇸 (@fiftyoverwc)
March 26, 2026
(Edited by Asavari Singh)