SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Why are these police being lazy ?
DATE: 2025-04-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1k8dz13/why_are_these_police_being_lazy/

--- POST TEXT ---

Byculla,
Mumbai,
Maharashtra

This is my own story but it's complex and police ? They're blind in this case

-[If anyone has legal knowledge and some time to read this stuffs then please someone can advice me because police aren't ready to take action in it and won't even give written answer.]-

There are on going fraud in the society, I live in South Mumbai and the committee member also trouble me and my parents as we did some work legally which they didn't wanted to do because few people were in their favour and we went through BMC, removing the grills in common passage which few handful of tenant took advantage of it for almost 22 YEARS. BMC send multiple notices through my parent's complaint and did demolition (17th Jan 2023) on these handful of tenant who used to live in the conner room. They removed their grill but still all the stuffs like bed, cupboard, shoe rack are still there as those people claim this common passage because the society members don't take actions (favouritism). They even have to take almost 11-12 lakh of penalty but they don't want to take (favouritism). 

We went deeper in this shit because they started troubling us and harassing us. But before that I want to tell you the incident of a common passage light which started at 2021 (didn't know the accurate date). So what happened is that -- At that time (2021) Mhada worker were assigned in my building for maintenance work and also to repair the damages ceiling of tenants, so they did just outside my apartment, and for that they have to remove the tube light of the common passage (ceiling repair) and meanwhile we also did few repairs in our room and the rabit which were formed by the repairs were kept just outside my apartment (Point to be noted - There is no another room infront of me and only a gallery - so we kept it outside) the chairman told us to pay ₹2100 for the debris. Now as per rules: No tenant has to pay the rabit fees if kept just outside their apartment (I don't know if this rule is common or just within my society). So we deny. After some times when the repair work was done, my dad called the guy from the committee who fix light problems in the common passage for everyone but he told my dad that, "Chairman order me to not to install the tubelight because you (my dad) didn't paid the rabit fees". This was stupid and there were few law which we didn't know at that time (2021). We gave letters to the society about the reason that why the haven't installed the light ? They says - You can't ask us, you're not the owner of the room (My paternal uncle - My dad's elder brother is the owner of the room but he didn't stayed there for the past 25 years. Since 2000) so legally I guess we have the authority, as my dad has been staying here since the past 45 years. But that's internal matters and nothing is with the society. We started to do letters with the Mhada (Bandra office - उपनिबंधक) about such treatment and for almost 1.5 year there were no light installed in the common passage outside my apartment room even when we paid the maintenance fees. When उपनिबंधक sended letters to the society, they clearly mentioned in the letter which says, "NO ONE CAN STOP THE NECESSARY SUPPLY OF WATER, ELECTRICITY AND MAINTENANCE FEES OF ANY TENANT NO MATTER WHAT." Point to be noted - This rule was a government rule where they themselves can't break it, but here society was purposely harassing us. So twice we installed a normal white tubelight by our own money even after paying maintenance. When the tubelight stopped working, we had enough, me and my mom decided to bring a 10 meter bright warm yellow LED strip and called electrician to installed it. Once done, we out the connection inside the same connection in which the normal tubelight was put in, the common passage light connection. This happened in the January of 2024 and it took a whole year for society members to notice and take action on it. I'll get on it later.

When we come back to the FRAUD, fraud happened in the room next to me. [Room no 309] &lt;-- This number is major player here because this room was also owned by my paternal uncle when the building was build in 2000 my uncle purchased this extra room on the discount benefit of the main room in which we live [Room 308] and 308 is the room since chawl, if you get what I mean - My family used to live in chawl before this building was formed and 308 is the main room as we call it "मूळ गळा" or "मूळ घर" and my uncle purchased 309 to live separately with his wife. He decided to sold the room and live somewhere else because of some family conflict with his wife and his parents so he sold the room at 2002 (point to be noted -- He sold RN309 at 2002 = Under 5 years, which means he broke one of the Mhada's rule which says, "No tenant can sell the house within the 5 years of purchasment without any strong and serious request such has Hospital bills, etc" and also he must need the approval of Mhada to sell the room. He didn't gave any real reason and sold the house to a guy name "गुणाजी वाडकर" at 2002. Now here's a little more complex thing - Gunaji kept someone from his family in that room 309 for few years without owning the flag properly. In 2010, he started to kept the house for rental while the property was still under the name of my paternal uncle "नंदकुमार बने". Why Gunaji Wadkar didn't made the property under his name is not known but he kept a lot of rental (I guess 7-8 because at that time I was in school) even without claiming the property as his property and society ? They didn't care. Maybe they were getting money ? I can't acused, I don't know the real reason but what I know is that - THEY DIDN'T DO ANYTHING AS SOCIETY MEMBERS. Wadkar kept rental from 2010-2017 because in the year 2018 my father put a objection (हरकत) on that room at the Worli office (मिळकत व्यवस्थापक परिमंडळ ३) when he got to know that this stuffs are being illegal as - Wadkar didn't put his name on the room, kept rental, had money, and failed to put his name on the property for 23 years since my uncle sold him the property at 2002. When my father put objection on that property, he stopped keeping rental and they did a lot of stuffs behind us and my own uncle tried to help Wadkar to get his name on the property as soon as possible. In 2024 where we were doing this Paperwork in different government agency, we got to know that there is another file already made at मिळकत व्यवस्थापक परिमंडळ ३ in the year 2018. I mean if both rooms [ RN 308, RN 309 ] are under the name of my paternal uncle then they (Worli office) have to make separate file ? And at the earlier times those people in that office kept the separate file of RN 309 hidden from us. How we got this ? On the building name board where they put names of owner and room number. How it should be :--

Room number 308 - नंदकुमार बने
Room number 309 - नंदकुमार बने

How it was :--

Room number 308 - नंदकुमार बने
Room number 309 - गुणाजी वाडकर

In 2023, my parents put two RTI about RN 308 and RN 309 and that time they didn't gave us a separate hidden file of RN 309. And as per we know it was wrong so we put RTI at Mantralaya about the different names on the main name board. They send it to Bandra office (उपनिबंधक) and they send it to Worli office (परिमंडळ ३). That's when we got to know that there's ANOTHER SEPARATE FILE of room number 309. My parents were furious, Because they kept it hidden (maybe society and my uncle bribe them ?). Another thing we got to know that my paternal uncle नंदकुमार बने did GIFT DEED to गुणाजी वाडकर as COUSIN BROTHER. When we got to know, we didn't know why he did it ? Cousin brother ? Maybe he got tax break that's why he showed him as brother because if not then there's no need to show him as brother. Even NOC was inside the file with the signature of only the chairman, only chairman, no one else. And even there was no mention of my father's objection of 2018 and that's when we got to know that this is a fraud with the society members, my uncle and परिमंडळ ३.

10th January 2025, we submitted a file (bunch of proof and paperwork) to the Byculla police station on the same day when my parents had hearing at the Bandra office but the society members didn't showed up saying, "We didn't got any letter" where actually they got but no signature so they can lie easily. Since that 10th Jan to the date I am writing this which is 26th of April - Nothing happened about that file and I am damn sure they didn't even tried to see what's in the file. 

12th January 2025, I was alone in the house as my parents were somewhere outside. All the society member came outside my apartment room forcefully with a different electrican and started to remove the connection of the LED strip and to put a new white tubelight there to show that they're doing their job but they were just covering up things. I myself asked them if they have any written answer they gave to उपनिबंधक but they just took me for granted and said, "Yes we have." And ignored me. I did video call to my parents as they even got furious because these people they kept us in dark for 3 years, and whatever they did on 12th Jan 2025 was provocation hidden "Doing their duty as society members". The chairman started making video of how everyone is doing work, how we passed his point in general meeting about the LED and now we're removing the connection (not the LED, they cut the connection and install their own light). Later my parents quickly tried to come home, and I went to the police station to tell what happened and what not but they didn't took me seriously because I wasn't above 18. I told that police guy that these stuffs are already happening in the Bandra office and Mhada but these people are troubling us. He did nothing except putting my name, age, and other stuffs in a stupid diary and ignore it. When my parents came to the police station, we got to know that the chairman already came here and filed an NC saying that my parents used swear words on the society members as they were doing their work. The next day, on 13th January, my parents made a video just outside the apartment showing the proof and paperwork that Bandra gave us people telling everyone what actual stuffs these society members especially chairman and secretary did while we cut the tubelight connection and joint our own LED into the same connection and upto date (26th April) we are still using the LED because we didn't got any written answer from the society members about why they haven't instal light since 3 years (2021-2024).

Then at 10th Feb 2025 we got first lawyer's letter from the society by some cheap lawyer's association [Seema Hunnurkar and association] and they gave us notice saying we did this and that wrong, demanding to send written apology to chairman and secretary and disconnect the LED. And we are damn sure that these people just used some cheap lawyer to intimadate us and to make us cut the light, we didn't. We got 1st reminder at 26 of Feb 2025, same stuffs to say sorry to chairman and secretary and disconnect the LED light. Now we thought to do something. But another thing, in this 1st reminder they claimed that WE DID THEIFT OF ELECTRICITY. On 24th of Feb 2025, two people were captured in the CCTV outside my apartment, we got a clicked that they are possibly from B.E.S.T. and we went there, did inquiry and we got to know that society had filed a complaint there without sending notice to us from themselves or even telling to my uncle, they went straight to B.E.S.T and lawyer. We put RTI at B.E.S.T and within 30 days we got their answer saying "We saw LED, but didn't found anything unauthorised." And this was the answer from the B.E.S.T. Society members especially chairman and secretary didn't waited for the B.E.S.T response and went straight to lawyer to make notice and scare us. We didn't got scared. After the 1st reminder of 26th Feb 2025. We planned to answer the lawyer with a 7 page long letter, explaining things but we didn't joint any proof, why ? Because we thought to show it in the court directly if they filed complaint in the court. This 7 page letter went to the lawyer at 15th March 2025, then after 15 days, we send a reminder because we didn't receive anything from the lawyer as they USED TO claim allegations on us, we also include a warning that we might put a complaint to the BCI on this harrasment, so we did send a 1st reminder to the lawyer on 1st April 2025. And within 2 days we got such a letter from that lawyer where I was furious but my mom was very chill. The letter from the lawyer didn't had a neutral tone, it was full of threatening and yapping about the rights of lawyer, the letter also didn't had a SUBJECT, and still the same begging to say sorry to the chairman and secretary and disconnect the LED light. We even went to meet the Station in-charge of Byculla police station, Sir. Chimaji Adhav and talked with him on this stuff that society members are still troubling us and as we got to know from our own research this included Criminal intimidation, defamation, false accusations and misue of legal provisions but the in-charge said to challenge their notice in court and I was like, "What the fuck ? Are you idiot or something ? We came here to tell you hoping you might help us but you're pushing on court" even when we mentioned that we got to know that the chairman had file a class NC on us, we should file FIR on him but the in-charge said, "Challenge that NC through court." And I got a little aggressive on him and said, "Sir, why should we head to court when you guys can do it ?" And his ass got burnt so he asked me my name and my age because I talked back to him, we failed and he still said to challenge this through the court. As planned, we head to the Bar Concil of India a few days later, got to know that we need 3000/- to spend to file a complaint !? Me and my mom, we looked at each other with a bruh look. We both were like - "We cannot spend 3000/- on these cheap peoples, just give their lawyer another letter saying 'do whatever you want to do, we don't care'." And as planned mom made letter and we posted the letter at 22th April 2025. And in this overall case, police isn't doing anything. 

If anyone read until this, big thanks but we need advice or help on this. I know this is very complex but I am just 18 and know all these things still these police aren't doing anything.

So please suggest something strong. Lawyer is an option but my parents don't want to spend when we can get government lawyer once FIR is filed.