SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: hdfc savings account put on debit freeze due to mismatch in account activities with profile 
DATE: 2024-09-28
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fqysej/hdfc_savings_account_put_on_debit_freeze_due_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, I got an email from hdfc bank saying my savings account has been put on a debit freeze. They reason they gave was : 
Your attention is crucial. We have noticed some account activities that do not match the profile associated with your HDFC Bank account (Account No. XXXXXXXXXXABCD)

I visited my home branch, talked to the branch manager and he asked to check my statement for the past 1.5 years. He was shocked to see that I made around 2400 transactions in the past 1.5 years, which is approximately 4.5 transactions a day, which is fairly normal for a student living in a different city than his parents. He further said, he would go through my statement thoroughly and get back to me in a few days. Adding further, he said that ED might build up a case on this matter. 

Here’s what actually happened :- 

I am an employee of a firm based in Germany, that deals in digital goods globally. They wanted to buy xbox digital codes from a seller in India. The indian seller said he can only accept the payment through indian payment methods. So I was asked to convert crypto currency to INR and then further transfer the money to the Indian seller. So, I found a seller on P2P, but due to the ongoing scams in the p2p/crypto industry (bank freeze due to scam funds), I asked the seller to deposit cash in my bank directly through an ATM. While I didn’t realise, the transactions accumulated upto 15L, crossing the yearly cash deposit limits. I knew I was in for some trouble, but didn’t knew of what kind. 

I have invoices of the goods purchased from the seller and more importantly, I had no personal gain from these specific transactions except for the salary I get on a monthly basis, which is under the minimum tax bracket. 

As a 22 year old, I’m scared of the consequences and don’t know what to do next. Some advice from a qualified person here would really really help ease my stress. Please help me out. 

Thank you!