SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: BE AWARE OF DATING APP - LAZADA DROPSHIPPING SCAM - lazada.gzycr.com
DATE: 2024-07-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1e8p0xp/be_aware_of_dating_app_lazada_dropshipping_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys, I am here tell and warn about my recent experience that I was scammed. A month ago, I have met this guy on CMB who faked his name as J\*ck W\*, lives in Singapore. He insisted to take the chat over to Whatsapp and the story begins here. He has been sweet talking so much to the extent that I did not believe every word he said, even so I thought he was genuine and we could be friends, we do get along at times like when we were talking abt demon slayer lol (moreover he had sent mirrorfie with his dog, gym mirrorfie, lunch pic etc ). He insisted we will meet in person and no video call before that but we had audio msg, and he had this Bangla accent in his English. When I confronted him as this should not be an accent of a Singapore Chinese who graduated from NUS, and he said it's because he grew up in Little India... I was so dump to believe that. After that, from time to time, he been luring me to join the Lazada dropshipping scheme which he said has "changed his life", claiming we should think abt our future, it's good to have same interest yada yada, he had also given me his id and pw to manage his store for him for a day but of course it still looks super suspicious to me, I have did my research but somehow these reddit threads did not show up by then. T.T 

In the end, I have signed up using a promo code he provided without knowing anything abt the platform( because I was not planning to take it seriously or transfer any money,). Apparently, you have to "recharge" to complete the orders within 24 hours or your store will be frozen along with the inviting store, can't withdraw money. This guy came to me and said he had all his savings in his store and because of me it is now blocked because our stores are connected, and I ignored all the orders in my store. ***I was smart enough to believe this platform is a scam, but dumb enough to believe this guy was a victim of the scam as well and those are rlly his savings***. So I literally recharged USD 530 (min amt to recharge, they gave us some random company bank acc to transfer instead of LAZADA bank account), cleared the orders, and hoping both of us could withdraw everything once the money return to my wallet. TOO NAIVE. there were more orders came in to my store but thank god I wasn't rich enough in the first place to fullfill all the orders. He had asked me to loan from others, but I am super grateful that my mom taught me to never borrow money from others in ANY circumstances like my father (asides of medical urgency). There was customer service in the platform but they are super rude, and all they would say is asking you to fullfill the order, so they can scam more money :) squeezing your wallet as much as they can

 
Our relationship gone bad after I refused to ask for a loan, he called me irresponsible and shit while I say I don't care, it's not me who had my savings in there. After that, I stopped replying and felt bad as if I thought it's my fault that someone gone into bankrupt. Next day, I decided to google again about this and came across the threads on reddit. Now I am certain that this is a scam and thank god I am feeling super grateful that I did not lose too much of money nor in debt. I have reported his number on WhatsApp as well as the website.

 
To the recovery scammers out there, I have accepted the fact that this is a price paid for a lesson :)

 
REMINDER: PLEASE BE AWARE OF THE PPL YOU MET ON DATING APP AND BE EXTRA CAUTIOUS WHEN IT INVOLVES MONEY. HOPE NO ONE WILL FALL FOR THIS ANYMORE. FEEL FREE TO SHARE ACROSS OTHER PLATFORMS AND YOU WILL SAVE LIVES . GOOD LUCK!