Dear Sir/Madam, This is to bring to your kind attention the regretful state of affairs that I am currently experiencing on account of having purchased a 40GB Playstation-3. The system was purchased in February 2008 from "SONY WORLD" at Park Street (EASTERN CARPETS PVT.LTD. 29 PARK STREET CENTRAL KOLKATA - 700016) in Kolkata with a warranty period of one year. Being an avid gamer, it was after much thought and serious research, that I chose from amongst- (i)upgrading my Desktop (PC) (ii) buying an XBOX 360 from Microsoft, and (iii) buying the Playstation-3 from Sony. As it turns out, buying the Playstation-3 has been the most illogical thing to do. The system was working fine for  a year and a half after which, it ceased functioning abruptly. Thereafter, I have been unable to switch on the system. To add to this, I have been informed by the personnel at the Sony Service Center (32, Hazra Road, Kolkata.) that Playstation-3 is not repaired/serviced in India as matter of policy.  Upon enquiring for an alternate solution, I was informed that the system being more than 2 years old, I would, at best be given a 15-20% discount over the retail price on a new replacement. Considering the fact that I bought my system for a price of Rs 25, 000/- and that the new consoles are being sold at a price of Rs 18,000/-(approx), I do not see reason as to why the payment of Rs 14,000/-(approx, after discount) for a replacement is justifiable by any yardstick of imagination. The matter is even more disheartening due to the fact that I paid a premium over the prevailing black market price at the time of purchase, only due to the fact that I did not want Service/Repair of the console at a later time to be hindered. To show the least amount of responsibility to a customer, the personnel at SONY should have at the very least, bothered to inform me of the Service/Repair Policy of SONY India w.r.t to the Playstation-3, at the time of purchase. Unfortunately for me, the same did not happen.  I was assured that all Service/Repair needs will be carried out at the authorised service centers. If the right information had been provided to me, I would have had changed my mind and opted for and XBOX 360 instead. In effect, after around 1.5 years of having  paid Rs 25,000/- to buy a console, I'm left with two options- (i) buy a replacement for a discounted price of around Rs 14,000/-( more than half of what I had initially paid) (ii) throw it away since it serves no purpose now. In view of the above, I fail to understand how Sony India justifies the following statements on its website- "One of the most recognized brand names in the world today, Sony Corporation, Japan, established its India operations in November 1994, focusing on the sales and marketing of Sony products in the country. In a span of 15 years Sony India has exemplified the quest for excellence in the world of digital lifestyle becoming the country’s foremost consumer electronics brand. With relentless commitment to quality, consistent dedication to customer satisfaction and unparalleled standards of service, Sony India is recognized as a benchmark for new age technology, superior quality, digital concepts and personalized service that has ensured loyal customers and nationwide acclaim in the industry." As far as I understand, concealing factual information about the true nature of Service/Repair to a customer at the time of purchase and forcing (since there is no other alternative) the customer to "buy"  a "replacement" at a  discounted price do not appear to be an effort in the direction of " commitment to quality, consistent dedication to customer satisfaction or unparalleled standards of service." At best, it can only be termed as an unethical attempt to force existing customers into buying the same product over and over again whilst not even upgrading the product. Having made a product as brilliant as the Playstation-3, it is the "after-sale" service from SONY which has left customers like me feeling cheated. I sincerely hope that I have been able to put forth my plight and request you to come up with a viable solution to the problem at the earliest.