SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: got scammed in the stupidest way possible by a girl on telegram, can I even do anything?
DATE: 2023-01-06
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/104v1rf/got_scammed_in_the_stupidest_way_possible_by_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

tl;dr - sold a phone from Hyderabad to Mumbai on telegram without taking any advance and she blocked me after receiving the phone.

&amp;#x200B;

I was in the Asus Zenfone 5z telegram group and there someone told me they needed a broken phone because they needed just a few parts of it and I replied to them coz I had a broken phone. Now the person who actually asked for the phone didn't message me but a girl did. We did a few negotiations and she agreed to buy the phone. She lived in Mumbai and I in Hyderabad. Before packing the phone I clearly explained the situation of the phone and even sent her a video showing it and she agreed to it. I send the phone and stupidly enough, didn't take any advance. And more stupid was that she didn't give her own number and address. For the number, truecaller gave some other name and the address was of a hotel. But still, I didn't suspect anything (don't ask me why). I send her phone and as soon as she receives the phone in Mumbai, she removes her dp, and the chats are cleared(I asked about it and she said that she was using her mom's phone and that it didn't have much storage so she had to clear it). Then she told me she need to show the phone to the repair guy and he was ill so it'll take time. She even made lame allegations that the phone is in bad condition. We argued a little bit and I got tired and ask her to either pay me or return back the phone. She said she'll return on a Tuesday(28th Dec). Tuesday comes and I see the chats are cleared again. I text her asking what's the status and to this day she didn't reply. I think she blocked me or something. I know what I did was stupid but since she was a girl, I was a little hesitant asking in advance or be a little more strict. Is there anything I can do to teach this bitch a lesson or should I just forget it? Will the Mumbai police help if I make an online complaint about cybercrime?