SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Do you think the people working in the Indian call centers are in on the scam?
DATE: 2021-11-01
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/qkhu46/do_you_think_the_people_working_in_the_indian/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just a thought that's been kicking around my mind for a while. Every time I try to see where a scam phone call is going for shits and giggles, I of course get booted over to some Indian call center. Now I don't doubt that there's an office (or many offices) full of people in India who know exactly what they're doing trying to scam people out of their money.

But it also seems entirely possible that they're just a bunch of hired mooks who think they're legitimately working for some credit card/student loan/vehicle warranty/etc. You occasionally hear stories about people working in factories, warehouses, even retail stores in other parts of the world who think they're working for a legitimate company making/selling genuine apple products or whatever, only for the business to get raided by the government because they were some seedy bootleg operation.

I could definitely see some ambitious scammer realizing they could hire people in a developing country for mere pennies to make their calls for them and maybe even convince them that they're actually Amazon customer service reps or whatever.

I've tried to ask a few of them myself. Results have been all over the place. 

Some of them double down trying to convince me they're legit, so either they really don't know when to quit, or they genuinely think they can help me with my student loans.

Some of them just hang up, so I figure they may be in on it, but it could also be part of their training that if a "customer" doesn't seem receptive, to just disconnect.

Some of them get real angry. I think they're probably in on it, but then again, I doubt a scam outfit wouldn't be providing much training in terms of best practices for customer service, and they could be up against some hard quotas from their boss to "extend *X* car warranties" a day or they could lose their jobs, and are just legitimately upset that I'm wasting their time.

One guy didn't seem to mind that I was calling him out for being a scammer, but seemed absolutely appalled at the suggestion that he was in India.

Just curious what other people's thoughts on the matter.