SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Fault in our stars.... born unlucky ... bad marriage... single parent 
DATE: 2025-01-10
SCORE: 160
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1hy1bmx/fault_in_our_stars_born_unlucky_bad_marriage/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi , I m 34 f born in kerala settled in karnataka. Had a normal childhood. I am an introvert. So never got a chance to be in a relationship... it was all one way crushes. I was born manglik and astrologers scared us into marrying only with Kundali match. He said if she does love marriage she would have a very bad life or husband would die. Why would I risk someone's life. So I never took the risk to avoid pain. 

PS - very long post. Please jump to end for the summary 🙂

I got married when I was 28 . It was arranged marriage and coincidentally his sister was working in the same office... she introduced herself to me after me and the ex husband (33 M when we married) met for the first time with family. 
I met him in Feb, married in may. I din get much time to get to know him. Since his sister was in my office she was after me whitewashing him saying he s the best guy in the world blah blah and literally forced me to acceptvhim saying please don't reject my brother. Kundali was matching, my relatives checked their family background, his ancestral family had good name. My relatives also forced me saying I m already 28 , parents getting old... usual manipulation. So I got married. 
My dad spent a lot. His pf money was used on my jewelry eventhough I asked them not to. I told the ex husband that I don't like wearing jewelry like kerala brides he said okay not marrying u for ur jewelry . Then my mom got a call from his mom saying dont tell ur financial troubles to ur daughter she s telling my son that she doesn't like wearing gold as it's her dad's pf money... we also gave our daughter lot of gold blah blah... my mother asked me to not talk like that to him . I got married wearing lotbof jewelry like a malayali bride. On the night of my wedding the MIL was saying lot of thief's in the area , and she will keep the gold in her cupboard as it has lock. Then next day she kept it in bank locker taking all her Relatives with her to show off saying we will be in blr so lets keep it in locker. I thought fair enough since its safer....That was the biggest mistake of my life!

After that their behavior with me changed. Sister in law used to bully me and got involved in our private life constantly. MiL treated me like a servant. And husband's attitude changed completely, started acting like he married me under pressure from parents, he doesn't like fat women. Which angered me. I asked him y dint u say this in the beginning. Then the whole family used to fat shame me on regular basis because that the only thing they had against me. I had more education and good job. So they started pin pointing my weaknesses. Once they understood that by fat shaming they couldn't get into my head , the husband started insulting me in bed saying I m fat and ugly and he gets turned off seeing me and having sex with me is like necrophilia... I had to google this word. This started affecting my confidence. He used to compare me with his sister constantly like she does her hair color , takes care of fig everything for her husband but I Don't do all that and I don't have qualities of a women I look like Transgender blah blah .my self esteem was going down and down. Then I got pregnant. No one was happy. The SIL asked me to abort but I kept the baby. Thinking that would improve my marriage. But it was a disaster. During covid lock down I was 3 months pregnant he kicked me out of the house when I asked him not to smoke next to me. He was a chain smoker. I was alone throughout my pregnancy. Nobody came after I delivered baby. They came after a month after persuasionfrom from my parents. After 6 months he called me back to his house because he had no job. He constantly asked money from me. After I went to his house his mother asked me to join job as he was jobless. I was sole breadwinner of that house. His mother din help me with the baby at all. She watched Serial all the time intentionally. She and the husband were constantly fighting over bills so I helped him in paying seeing her insulting him I made him do some course in data science spending my money. 

After 6 months I came to my home with my baby as nobody helped me with my baby in his house and I had to work and I had health issues also. While was at my home I asked him to send me his resume which he dint. Before also when he was left job I had asked him his resume he never shared. We had a fight about this and he blocked me for 3 months. In this 3 months I tried to contact him in many ways. He completely disappeared and I cried every night .then I took the decision to divorce after much thinking. I had nothing in this marriage. There was only mental and financial abuse!

Before filing the divorce when parents discussed the issues we asked them to return my jewelry which I had worn on my wedding day. They refused to give that and asked me to go to court! His dad said let ur daughter be with u and let us keep ur gold. He wanted to scare me that they ll take custody of my daughter if i open my mouth. Now it's been 3 years me and my father are roaming court for my own assets!!

But During this time I got to know lot of bitter truths
1. The ex husband was engineering drop out. He married me saying he was from a particular engineering college. We got to know it was fake. He said he was a system engineer but he was tech support guy.

2. They were highly debt ridden. Their father was drunkard and never worked his whole life. They lived by selling mother's gold and ancestral property shares and were out of money after they got their daughter married to show off by taking huge loans. They married me only to use my jewelry for clearing the debts.

3. They always portrayed me as mentally unwell whenever I reacted to their unfair biases , comments and body shamingand physical abuse like kicking and chocking. the ex husband was emotionally unavailable to me throughout the marriage. Their plan was to discard me or force me into committing suicide so that they can completely use my jewelry! And they would show the world that I might have killed myself due to depression or mental illness 

4. My own cousin knew that they were frauds but she and her family kept it from my family so that I marry and suffer. They thought I would suffer the marriage and financially drain myself and my family to protect the marriage. 

This was a well orchestrated hiest but plan derailed as I got pregnant. My baby saved my life

The only reason I tolerated this marriage was for my parents and I din wanted a divorce but after filing divorce I realised their truth and if I had not taken this decision I would have been on news of dowry deaths. They would have killed me if I had found out about their truth when I was with them and made it look like a suicide.

Will I get my gold back ?? Court procedures are delaying due to high number of cases and they bunk most of the time. I visit every hearing. They have ran away to blr and I heard they booked flat also. I have proofs of them taking gold loans even after we filed case. Please suggest . I m just asking for my gold which is my asset and I din ask for alimony also. I m a single parent and he never tried to even see the child.he and his family are great in disappearing after cheating . Will I get justice?