SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: a weird scam i don't understand, a bit of a long post, i apologize
DATE: 2022-03-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/tnx796/a_weird_scam_i_dont_understand_a_bit_of_a_long/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, I've had this weird scam experience a while ago and I've found this subreddit and was hoping for someone's knowledge over this type of stuff

So i was reading a comic online, specifically the latest One Punch man chapters (the that are released prior to the volume release, where 10 chapters are compiled together each volume) and i had no issue until I finished reading it and then I closed the chrome window. 

For some reason, a pop up window had opened up which I hadn't noticed, did it open in the background? First thing that i noticed was that the chrome window color was different (cause I've set mine to be a dark purple theme, so the tabs and search bar appear all in dark purple hues). This window's theme was the normal default white, and it was the "national indian government" website (I am North indian) and it had the layout of a professional website, and it had the words-

"Please pay 29000 RS as a fine for watching pornography online, or else your device will be blocked and the apps on it erased" something along the lines of this. The second thing to happen, was a loud siren sound going off and no YouTube tabs were open and no media files were either, so i assumed it was from the website. I just muted the laptop, cause that seemed like the only way to stop the sound. 

Now, I'll be honest, I did panic because I assumed this was like a false accusation on me and that fact that it was asking for 29000 RS and the fact that it said closing the website would result in a fine increase. 

The thing that caused me panic the most was the fact that the website was SECURE, and the URL seemed to be having gov.in which usually is a sign that it is a government website. The situation only felt worse. 

It was asking for the credit card number, the amount to be sent, and my date of birth. 

Here is where a pop up appeared, that said "press esc to get out of full screen". I wondered why that would appear and I clicked esc, and I could see my original dark purple theme again. 

It seemed like there was a tab open, with a completely different URL of a website that was unsecure, and below that, open like a website was the Indian National government website, but with its URL under the unsecure URL. I tried clicking on the gov URL and nothing happened, like it was a still image. I tried clicking on the logo of the gov website hoping for it to take me to the main web portal, it didn't. Even the three buttons at the top right (minimise, minimize to taskbar, close) were under the dark purple search bar. I tried clicking on them and it did nothing too, but the bar where you're meant to enter the credit card info was working. 

I called my father who was sleeping, to check this out, and he looked over it for a few seconds, closed it and went back to sleep. 

I'm pretty sure it was a scam, but I'm posting this to this subreddit because of a few questions I have from this experience. 

1) the unsecure website's name was either fooldating.com or fooldating-somethingelse-.xyz I think. 
They seem like scam websites but my question is are all websites having .xyz a scam website? 

2) secondly, I couldn't find the website's URL in my history. I tried looking, but it wasn't there. I opened a couple of other websites and closed them, and they appeared in the list but this one did not. I regret not noting down or taking a photo of that URL before my dad clicked close. Can anyone tell me why it did not appear in my history? (I wasn't even on incognito)

Thank you

EDIT - Spelling mistake