SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Potential luxury home buyer wants to save taxes and pay through instant money transfer wallet
DATE: 2020-09-03
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/ilshm1/potential_luxury_home_buyer_wants_to_save_taxes/

--- POST TEXT ---

Throwaway, because I don’t want it traced back to me.

Has anybody heard of this?

I work for a high-net-worth-individual who is selling his luxurious home for a low two-figure million dollar amount. The house is listed with various, prestigious realtors. A couple weeks ago one of them brought in a potential buyer (Indian guy, works as Head of IT &amp; Tech for a global group in banking/finance), they agreed on a slightly lower purchase price. So far, so good. Buyer seemed legit. But now the buyer has been stalling for weeks. Apparently my boss had his identity checked with personal contacts in intelligence. Supposedly the guy has a three-figure million amount in his accounts. So far the name was for a real person with a real job in banking (I had it also checked with my personal contact, who works for the same group of finance companies and successfully looked him up in the directory.) 

I do all the paperwork for my boss, so far this guy was granted two further extension periods to come up with the full amount of money. Nothing happened, just excuses. Supposedly the buyer has already sent money and then retracted his statement. I would have been fed-up by now, but I guess my boss has been patient, knowing that it’s sometimes hard to gather liquid assets although being rich as fuck.

Yesterday my boss asks me to find out what it takes to register him with an instant money transfer wallet. He didn’t tell me what it was for. I take one look at it and my alarm bells start ringing. Bad layout, not functioning links and Lorem Ipsum for references... I googled some more and all there is, is fraud warnings. You can transfer currencies digitally but no one was able to successfully pay out. Not one positive statement. I tell him, this is a scam, I am not going to register him for it. He answers he has no risk, he just needs a registration to receive funds. I ask him if he is sure. He then sends me a Screen grab video from the potential buyer sent through the real estate agent, explaining how to register and set-up his wallet. Oh. Last point was to purchase a membership level to be able to transfer funds to real banking accounts. That membership level costs 4 Bitcoins = currently worth more than 40k USD...

So yeah, we may have been naive until now but we’re definitely not that stupid.