SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Hacked social media account used for mischief. Police called. 
DATE: 2025-01-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1huwu86/hacked_social_media_account_used_for_mischief/

--- POST TEXT ---

Appreciate advice from legal folks only, please. 

Few years back, I had made an Instagram account for a new business I was starting. This was just before covid. When covid came around, the whole plan was ditched and this account fell into disuse. I thought I had deleted it, but I had actually only disabled it. Since I had not actually started using the account, I had not set a strong password for it. There is a very good chance that account was hacked long back and I did not notice. A while back I discovered it was still active, and I logged back in, and deleted it. 

Last week, I got a call from a policeman on his mobile that this account was involved in some sort of illegal activity and came up while they were investigating a cyber-bullying case. They (police) said they had sent a legal notice to Instagram and it gave them my details, including phone number. Apparently, according to the report Instagram gave them, the IP address which that account used was also used by me. 

To be sure I was not being conned, I called the station's landline to verify the name of the cop and spoke to the same person again via the thana landline. I asked the policeman for some details. He mentioned they got a complaint about that account (and some others). They sent a notice to Instagram, who replied that the same IP was used to access that account and my real account. So they suspect I am (one of) the person who runs the account which was used for whatever mischief. 

What are my options in this case? How should I prepare? 

Should I ask for the complainant's info and contact them to convince them I'm not bullying them, just someone who was careless with their alt account and let it get hacked? 

Should I visit the station? In a different city. 

Should I let it go to court? 

Should I hire a lawyer already? In which city?