SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: I got scammed by VCare 
DATE: 2024-10-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gco6qe/i_got_scammed_by_vcare/

--- POST TEXT ---

VCare is a famous skin and hair treatment clinic all over India and today I took a doctor appointment there because they said free doctor appointment for one day because of festival and made me pay 400 alone for "skin test" which was quite ironic but since it was only 400, I thought it wouldnt hurt and decided to give it a shot. Today afternoon I reach there and take a bunch of skin tests and told me that I'd have to do prp micro needling treatment in order to fix my acne scars. First of all, I only went there to enquire the price for a CO2 laser surgery and they ended up suggesting me an entirely diff treatment. Even though I was vocal with the doctor lady that I needed time to first think about it before deciding (obviously its my body) and that I also needed time to collect the cash but she kept peer pressuring me into accepting the treatment by saying its only one day discount and that if I pay 90k I can get it done immediately. I stood on my business and told her I cant afford it right now until she started talking to me about EMI plans. I didnt know how to get myself out of that so I thought I'd act like Im interested and since I had an average credit score because of multiple loans and few bounces, I thought Id play along for a while before I have to fully decline the offer. So she invited some guy into the room and he started making me click some bajaj links and asked for a lot of OTPs inorder to check credit eligibility and the result came out to be ineligible as I expected but then she came up with a new plan saying she has another lender and will ask him. Since I already put myself through all this I thought I'll go along for one last time to see what happens because they can take my money without my consent, right? right????

thats where I was wrong. She finally called up this new dude who was not in person but on phone who said he was from "FIBE" and even tho I was not supposed to be eligible he came back saying Im eligible for a 40k loan which was definitely not possible because I already have so many loans opened and been rejecting by a lot of banks. It was literally impossible but this nigga made it work somehow and he caught me off guard on giving away an otp for loan disbursement and they ended up disbursing the loan to VCare without even starting the treatment or any paperwork or even my signature. I called up fibe customer service and told them to cancel the loan and they said its not possible from their end since the money has already been disbursed and until VCare sends them the money back they cant cancel the loan. I was like "wow wtf did these scammers get me into". So I called up the shady "fibe" guy and asked him about it and he said I gave my consent when I shared that OTP even tho I was not fully aware of what that OTP was for. They took like multiple OTPs from me including my Aadhar OTP on digi locker so I thought this was just another OTP and gave it to him only to find out later that I have a 40k loan to repay for which I didnt even get any service. This is daylight fraud and Im sure they know it too. Im currently talking to them on the phone about it but they havent got back to me like they said which is quite ironic because till the moment I went to the clinic they kept spamming my phone asking if Im coming for the consultation or not but now they have conveniently stopped calling anymore. I'm trying my best to resolve this without taking a legal action because end of the day I just want my money back. Im gonna visit them once again in person otherwise I'm gonna have to lawyer up and file an FIR. If there's a possibility I can sue please let me know because this is just daylight fraud and Im sure there must be many other victims like me. Cant believe I got scammed by a doctor, that not counting to see it on my bucket list of an average experience in India