SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I think I’m getting scammed with threats
DATE: 2022-03-08
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/t98h7c/i_think_im_getting_scammed_with_threats/

--- POST TEXT ---

So here’s how it began your boy was down bad and decided to follow the rabbit hole of prostitutes on dating apps. Not my smartest move I know but live and learn. So believe me when I say don’t do it if you’re tempted

So talked a bit with her and said message my manager and paid security deposit and activation codes with him with receipts and reviews of people getting their money back. Well I messed up the activation code payment cause it was supposed to be bitcoin. I refused to pay it properly until I was given money back to pay for it. Told him to cancel the meet up and keep the money. He kept persisting and kept saying I need you to get your refund but to do that I need you to pay. Eventually a few days later he offered a deal with less money to get the money back so I paid more to get a refund. Then he said I needed to get the money out of escrow by paying more money

Well one block and one week later got a random text from the guy claiming to be the security manager of the operation if you want to call it that saying he saw the money in escrow that’s void and it’s messing with other accounts. I told him look all I can afford is a fraction of the amount I can’t pay through other methods cause you seem like a scammer to the apps like cash app. He asked for more and I was like no. We’re not doing more and he began to threaten me with stuff like “I’ll send a my boys to you” or “you’ll be in our custody”.

Now given the nature of the beginning of all this I’m not trying to alert the authorities just to be charged with attempting prostitution and plus cause I don’t want to cause problems with the people I live with so I reluctantly agreed to pay more to end the void.

At this point I’m too deep in with $2000 down so I take the gamble on I might get the money back. So pay a processing fee followed by oops problem the escrow company has a minimum of $4000 refund. So once again I go along with it while constantly confirming “hey is this is it after this we’re done right?” And boom we need you to pay for the transaction code.

After this I’m tired and done with it and I say so. After all a constant new problem coming up to get money back is ridiculous. This is where he starts threatening hard like “I’ll have my boys get you” “you’re making a big mistake” “stop blocking my numbers” “I have ways for you to face my wrath” last one is incredibly cringey and can’t help but to laugh. But threats are scary and honestly I’m afraid. Took the my picture from my what’s app sent it to me saying he’s going to send it to who he needs to. But with false bravado I play it off and basically said everything you’re doing smells like a scam you’ve offered no proof on my end. Then he said he’ll gather all the proof and send all the proof tomorrow as soon as when there is the possibility I’ll bite again.

And that’s where I’m at right now a bit shaken and smelling heavy bs from the other end. There have been receipts and such but with the occasional typo. And the one phone call conversation was very muffled with what I can only guess was an Indian accent. Going deeper I knew was a gamble but it’s the threats that got me to dive in and I want a second opinion on it cause I am scared

TL;DR tinder prostitution attempt goes poorly with a canceled meet up. Problem after money throwing problem comes up to get refund. Eventually refuse and then here come the threats followed by I’ll show you all the evidence that this is legit tomorrow

PS will admit nice technique with the receipts, and screenshot of the money, with forcing payment by seeming rushed saying “we need to do this now”