SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: A guy borrowed money from my friend in sept last year, now he keeps on postponing days after days, after a small altercation today he threatened to morph and leak her pics. please advice, urgent.
DATE: 2024-02-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ay8vmn/a_guy_borrowed_money_from_my_friend_in_sept_last/

--- POST TEXT ---

In Sept last year, a guy borrowed some money from my friend \[Rs. 14,010\] saying that he will trade it, and will return the money later on. 
My friend very naively agreed. Later on, he kept on postponing and postponing, until about a week ago after asking the money back, and getting nothing back they decided to file a cyber crime report, which then told them to report to nearest police station. The guy had moved to Delhi, while we are from Varanasi. The police told them that since the guy isnt in varansi, they can only ask the delhi police to help. They (friend and her mom) decided not to file an FIR and give the guy a warning, for which he transferred about Rs.500 and Rs. 1500 on 20th Feb 

He send a text, 
"mai exactly date baata de raha...20 ko 4 hjar... 
25 ko 6 hjar.....5 ko baaki ke rest amount" 
As i mentioned, on 20th, instead of 4k he send 1.5k only and postponed them all 
My friend told me all this when she was feeling disturbed, today a few hours ago i came across his instagram post with his mom where i in my stupid rage i commented, 
"Kya mata ji ko pata hai ki tum aur logo ke paise lekr baitho ho? . Aur uss udhaar ko wapis karne time par tumse nahi ho pa raha h?............ Kya mataji ko ye bhi pata hai ki agar paise wapis nah ihue tumhare kahe hue last day ko, toh fir tumpar FIR hone waali hai?" 
By the way, my friend's mom talked to his mom, on the day they they were about to transfer the money, but after that he has never given any phone number of theirs. The guy's mom and sister knows about his trading ventures, his dad doesnt. When he was in Varanasi he used to borrow money from here and there for trading from hostel mates and other people. 
Anyways, continuing on, after that comment he bans my account, hence removing the comment. 
He the calls my friend and her mom back to back, furious about the comment, he then calls my friend and says something along the lines of, "account badi chiz hoti hai (he's a wannabe influencer with about 1.9k-2k followers) abhi hum bhi insta waale game mai utar jayenge toh boht kuch kar sakte hai, samjh rahi ho na? bohot photos hai tumahre..." he repeated the same words to her mom as well. 
Please advice what to do