SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Cyber criminals hacked my router and stalks my mobile phone conversations
DATE: 2025-04-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ju8138/cyber_criminals_hacked_my_router_and_stalks_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Two years ago, I used to receive a lot of personal loan and overdraft facility calls from scammers. I use a scam/spam call blocker app to filter such calls, but over the past year, things have taken a new turn. Even though auto-blocking is enabled, I still receive a few spam calls on a weekly basis.

Since last year, I’ve been getting several calls from unknown numbers related to conversations that happened on my mobile. For example, I receive a call about insurance the day after I speak with my insurance agent about automobile insurance. I get a call about an overdraft facility the day after I discuss it with my relationship manager. I even receive calls about credit cards the day after I search for them on Google. These scammers talk about exactly what I searched for online or discussed over the phone. If I search for "HSBC credit card," the next day they ask if I’m interested in an HSBC credit card.

You might assume these calls are genuine, but when you check the numbers, they don’t belong to any bank. I have full DND (Do Not Disturb) activated. When I report such numbers to TRAI through their app, disciplinary actions are usually taken within 10 days. So far, I’ve reported over 100 numbers, and almost all of them have been acted upon. If these calls were genuine, TRAI wouldn’t take action.

I also receive different kinds of virtual arrest calls, which come from spoofed international numbers. (These idiots don’t even realize I’m actually playing them.) TRAI can’t take any action because the numbers are spoofed and not from India.

Recently, these scammers have started involving people who speak my native language. It felt like a honey trap. One woman sent me a voice clip on WhatsApp pretending to be a customer care manager in my bank and asked if I needed any assistance. She even gave me a solid detail about one of my investments. I’m sure she (or they) somehow spied on my phone conversations with my real bank relationship manager.

I filed a detailed complaint through the cyber portal, hoping for some action. The complaint was forwarded to the local police station. But you know how local police stations work, right? They’re couch potatoes who can’t even move their lazy asses to write a GD entry. I’m now planning to file at least an FIR.

I have internet security software installed on both my laptop and mobile. No threats were found after a full scan. I even contacted the support team and provided them with deep-level data as requested. After analyzing everything, they confirmed there were no suspicious or malicious activities or apps found on my devices.

Yes. My mobile number and email addresses are leaked in dark web because of the breaches in different sites like boat, zoom car etc....

Can someone guide me on how to move forward legally and what defensive measures I can take?