SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: USA is not as good as people seem to think 
DATE: 2024-12-20
SCORE: 216
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1hik5cp/usa_is_not_as_good_as_people_seem_to_think/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is little off topic for this sub but I have seen several posts of people wanting to move to Usa or comparing their lives.

First of all I like to acknowledge USA is land of opportunities and you can earn very high salaries and can have a pretty good life. But for the most part life is not at all that great in Usa. It has good roads and infrastructure but comes with alot of problems.

First and foremost there is no public transport here. Apart from few big cities like nyc you’ll never get decent public transport. Car would be absolute must to go anywhere. The roads are designed in such a way that there aren’t even walkable paths in some areas. With Car comes cost like maintenance and insurance. Although fuel is cheaper in comparison but maintenance cost and insurance are quite high

Healthcare is absolute worst here. I used to watch movies and tv shows where rich people used to come to Usa for treatment when in reality it’s the opposite. Many Indians actually goto India for proper health care checkups and other appointments. For perspective if you need a specialist consultation then wait times can be months to get one appointment and if urgent then you have to goto emergency room which 3x expensive. Its literally cheaper to fly to india and get check and get medicine then get medical help here. 

Health insurance is the biggest necessity here and also seems like the biggest scam. Insurance for a family of 4 can cost upto 1000$ a month. Even with good insurance you’ll have to pay from your pocket most if times. For eg if procedure cost 10,000$ good chance you’ll insurance won’t cover entire thing. Also insurance have right to reject procedures and medicine and give you cheaper options. Healthcare is highly dependent on insurance here. Many hospitals won’t even see you with insurance 

Safety is also a biggest concern in Usa. Almost all big cities here are not safe at night. I’ll be brave enough to roam around alone in Nyc or boston or chicago. Homeless people have increased and also there gun violence. There are mass shooting news every single day and sometimes it could be near you. Have to be careful especially in public transport which are not properly monitored. 

Usa is good place if you have good job, money, insurance, live in nice areas and have cars. But on an average life here is not that great. Alot of people want to move to India after some time is because of these reasons