SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Iphone lost in the train
DATE: 2025-02-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ik2804/iphone_lost_in_the_train/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was travelling with my 5 colleagues in a Three-Tier AC in 07696- RMD- SECUNDARABAD special train on December 6th 2024, night. We had our dinner, chats, gossips, and everyone went into sleep around 12:30 AM(7th December). I had kept my phone(Iphone 14) in charge and slept on the phone on top of it. (pillow above his phone) in the upper birth. I had my bedsheets on me. Lights were switched off. All went to sleep. In the morning, around 7 AM, when I woke, the phone was not in the cable.I got panicked and we all searched our entire boggy down to up. We tried calling his number back to back, it was already switched off.

Around 7:40 AM, we once again called back, this time it began to ring and a person picked the call speaking in hindi. He stated he is GRP officer from Gudur Railway Station, and he has caught an iphone and micromax mobile from Bangla theives. He Deliberately cut his call and whatsApp messaged us back to number which we called to my number, asking for our PNR number, Name and INVOICE to confirm our identity. With no second thought, we gave the things he asked for, (because he had a professional Police officer whatsApp DP), the moment while we were speaking, he said the phone will be sent back to Hyderabad. We called him back, but the phone was switched off, neither was his whatsApp number. Then we realized this would be a potential scam. We deleted our bill details. And took SS of the conversation. We used railmadad, spoke to the SECUNDARABAD RPFs, sent a distant friend to gudur railway station to check such character. We already made a e-lost report and blocked IMEI in CEIR website. What we are assuming is the thief must have taken the mobile in Nellore, Ongole, Kavali in these stations or the thief was among the passengers? Please suggest some ways on getting my phone back! Couldn't able to move on, since I bought it in my very first salary💔