SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I'm having trust issues. 
DATE: 2024-02-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1b0acgy/im_having_trust_issues/

--- POST TEXT ---

So sadly I got scammed 2 months ago he called me saying that my father has told him to send money to me cuz he can't transfer it to my father's account as it's not working which happened once with him so he asked me that if I can help him but my father did this in front of me so later on he did gave me my money back. So that's what I thought what happened to his account probably not working and he asked this person to give to me the money And ohh I was so dumb and i believed him but the problem was my phone recharge was finished so I can't do any outgoing calls but incoming was working. So even if I wanted to ask my father that what this person saying is truth so that I can transfer him money but i couldn't call him. And this person was already on phone and when he transferred money he said that my father told him transfer 16k money to my account so at first he did 10k and second 30k and he said he accidentally transferred extra money and now he wanted the money back i didn't check my bank balance(and for your reference I'm a student and I just got into online banking and i didn't know how to check bank balance). He was getting impatient and I was panicking that this person has extra transferred money to me so i should quickly give him back so he can be free.... But I was so naive.
So i only had 15k in my account which was my scholarship money like my first own money and it precious to me as i was planning to buy my study books. And I lost 12k during that call period. That was the story

As this incident happened my sis said that i should complaint a file to cybercrime branch and also local police which I did but they didn't took much action as they said the amount is not big and also I transferred money through UPI so they can't much help me. After complaining about this i got a WhatsApp message as shown above. So i wanna ask you all do they contact victim through WhatsApp or is this another scam and they also gave a Google form to confirm my complaint it showed to fill data about my incident and after that to fill my bank details and Debit Card details and the chalan fees was 1₹. I didn't that at first cuz I'm already devastated i literally can't handle another scam again.