SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam warning on Zip Recruiter
DATE: 2017-08-25
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/6vujqs/scam_warning_on_zip_recruiter/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is my first reddit post. A little while back ago I signed up for zip recruiter which like indeed assists you in finding a job by posting your resume. I decided to give it a try after a few positions struck my eye,  not only was it full of false advertising with crazy unrealistic jobs for example becoming a insurance claims fraud investigator without even being license to by your state, tons of working from home jobs, or jobs that paid $30 an hour for a customer service position / administrative assistant. That was crazy but not the worst.  I removed my profile from zip recruiter contacted my states Attorney Generals office and tipped them off  so they can do their own investigating. But what I find bad as I contacted zip recruiter to inform them that a few of their ad postings or fraudulent( quite a few)  not only is there no way to get ahold of them over the phone but when contacting them online though they're customer service email not only did I hear nothing back but an automated message stating that everything that they post is legitimate there is no way to get in contact with a human. On another note I am still as of now getting phone calls with nobody on the other end, which either is my crazy psycho stalker or its more fraudulent phone calls. Which has of recently I've been receiving a lot also of texts messages from a 602 area code/Phoenix, Arizona. About how somebody found my resume and what love to interview me via text message or through Google Hangouts. 
Trying to get more information and maybe a little bit of boredom I received a email about one of these great job postings about a work from home administrative assistant job for Cadila Pharm LDT which is a pharmaceutical company in India that pays $38.00 a hour and $18.00 training. So I'm just going along with everything  to see how far it all go, he even what so far to ask if I have a bank account after I told him I did not and was in between banks he offered to mail me via FedEx a check for all the equipment that I would need to do my job successfully, shortly after he started asking personal information life Social Security Number, date of birth so on so forth I stopped replying. 
In my opinion they are a joke and would strongly discourage anyone from using their services.
Thank you for reading.