SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Solve this mystery/scam
DATE: 2024-11-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gipz1k/solve_this_mysteryscam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I used to live in India, but currently living in Canada. I wanted some products to be parcelled to me from India. So I talked over phone that I need all these products and I will be paying the money, you just need to handover the stuff to the parcel company which I mention. So now after the call I received a scam sms that my parcel held at customs and I have to update address and I am smart enough to know it’s scam, so I ignored it. The main mystery/scam starts now. My family handed over the parcel to that private company who uses fedex to parcel. We choose that private company because they take care of everything (packaging, what products are allowed or not, almost everything). My family even saw that the package was packed in front of them and handed over to a fedex guy. So next day I got an sms from India post and tracking id which was legit. The sms came like everyday as an update. I checked that tracking code by going on India post website and it shows the full correct history, like on which date and time the parcel was booked, it was exactly same when my family gave the parcel. I was still ok that maybe that parcel company used India post, but after few days the sms said that my parcel is delivered to addresse to someone in Bhayander, India. While I was expecting it to reach here in Canada. So I contacted the parcel company where my parcel was given, then I was told that don’t believe any sms as the parcel went to Fedex and due to Diwali it’s stuck at the store house, I will update you with tracking id after Diwali. So the mystery is if someone is scamming how they knew from where the parcel was booked and at what time. Also What benefit the scammer gets? as they really booked a parcel as I can track on India Post. Or the parcel company is telling lies and they booked through India post and they messed up and now that parcel company might be trying to correct things from there end. Sorry for this long story. But I need to solve this asap because I need the parcel urgently.