SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: laptop repair scam
DATE: 2024-07-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dvvd97/laptop_repair_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I went to a repair shop, found it online with good reviews on Quora, and called before going to him. 
He took my signature on the motherboard, wifi card, SSD, and screen. Then he took the laptop inside his room, came back 1 hour later, and told me that "there is a chip that is shorted." He said it would cost me 1800 rupees, and I said I'd look elsewhere. He went back inside, came back half an hour later, and showed me my signatures. There was heat damage to the black film that protects the motherboard from copper heat pipes. He told me to be careful of people stealing parts; he knows this as he has been working for a long time.

I went to another store. 
They said the laptop had been opened; saw heat signs on the black film, and said maybe something had been done. If foul play is detected, we will return your laptop. He also said that he can tell me if something is wrong and if the motherboard is repairable if I give him some time. 
He saw my signatures and asked me to sign on the WIFI card slot, stating that sometimes the sign on the motherboard is erased from the cleaner they use. He asked me to take a picture of my motherboard number. He then stripped my laptop of its peripherals and placed them in front of me. took the barebones motherboard, heat sink, and fan, inspected again, and then sent the motherboard to another shop someplace away. 
came back 2.5 hours later and said nothing was done and the repair guy needed more time.

I suspected that he was trying to scam me, as the former guy found the fault within an hour. I asked what you were doing in between. He said the repair guy needs more time. He showed me the laptop, and I suspected something was wrong. Maybe he did something to my CPU, and I asked him to uncover it, as that was the only uncovered part, to which he obliged. The CPU did not look touched. He closed the laptop. 
 
After thinking about it for a while, I decided to get it repaired for 1800 by the first guy. 
I went back to him again, and he said, Why have you come back? I told him about my situation, and he said if there is nothing else wrong, he will do it for 1800, but if something else is wrong, he will return my laptop. He took apart my laptop, went inside, and came back in a hurry after 0.5 hours. He haphazardly showed me the signatures and started assembling, stating that something else was wrong. I asked what was wrong, and he said that the motherboard was short. 
I panicked, thinking the motherboard was gone, and did not remember any further things he said.

I went back to the second guy and confronted him; he denied doing anything. I made them talk to each other on the phone, and the first guy told me that it was not his problem. I requested that he tell the second guy exactly what was wrong and what he thought had gone wrong. 
He stated that the board is short. 
Nothing came out of the confrontation, and I left for home. I told my dad about all this; he cursed and said he would get it repaired from Nehru place. At this time, I did not know if something was stolen from my laptop or if the first guy was bluffing for more money.

Four days later, my father took this laptop to another repair guy, who told him that someone had stolen a chip, which should be 32 MB, but the one connected to the board is 8 MB. I asked my father which chip he was talking about, but he could not say. 
So I looked online for replacement boards in an attempt to find which chip was different. 
I found that the chip in question is a Bios chip. and the first repair person probably stole it. as the photo I have was taken before giving for a second repair inspection, which luckily showed that the chip is different.

 Can something still be done?

tldr: i have a photo that shows one chip is replaced from my motherboard by the first guy.