SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: HP Gas supply scam
DATE: 2022-11-29
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/z7x9yv/hp_gas_supply_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have been a HP gas customer for several years now. I usually book online and when the guy comes to deliver, I usually tip him even if he does ask as I feel sorry for the guy carrying the cylinder up and down my apartment.

In the past sometime I used to get an alert saying a cylinder has been booked when I didnt book it. I called up the agency and they were totally chill about it and said to just refuse to accept it when the delivery guy comes. So I did that and went about life as usual

Recently, due to some family circumstances I dont avail a cylinder for months together. I was also away from Bengalure most of this month. I got an sms saying cylinder has been booked and as I was busy and it had happened in the past, I didnt pay too much attention.

Today I logged in online and checked my transactions and two cylinders have been shown as delivered to me this month!

I filed a complaint with HP online . Nothing happened for a while and then I got a feedback request for the case which I obviously gave the loowest rating for. Then just now the Gas delivery guy calls up and pleads with me saying it was a mistake, please forgive him this once as he will lose his job and please talk to the owner and withdraw the complaint.

I was livid for a while as it is obviously a scam where this guy books the cylinder in the name of apartments that have not availed their quota for a while and sells it in the black market. I was livid at the delivery guy and for being made the target of a scam, but I dont want him to lose his job and his family suffer. I am not fluent in kannada but I berated him with what I could. Finally I relented and said ok I will speak if the owner calls tomorrow.

I feel bad on one hand and dont want to be inflexible but on the other hand this guy will get away scot free and will probably repeat this. Im not sure how to proceed. Any advise? Also, I suspect that the agency itself is in on the whole scam and are probably involved.