I have bought reliance netconnect+ on 24th Jan 2013 evening. Still now I am not able to use device. The device is not recognized as modem in Red Hat Linux, coming only with ZTE USB Storage FFF1.(Screen shot attached for more understanding) Issues to be Addressed 1) There is no clear communication steps about how to do activation once I bought device. 2) There is no information mentioned on device box saying it won't support Red Hat Linux. I can able to connect using 159 huwai model but not using AC2738 model. Why product have been released with defect with out supporting Red Hat Linux. 3) No proper identification of problem in initial level ( Neither Shop Nor supplier- Ravi not understood what do mean by detection of device, driver support by OS ). 4) More than 10 days I am awaiting to use data card on my system after I paid Rs. 1999. What kind of compensation can be provided Information about Me and data card device Name: Manikandan Identification Proof Submitted: My Voter Identity card Mail Id: [protected]@gmail.com Contact Number: [protected] Model: AC2738 MDN: [protected] RSN: RZTCDC[protected] Artifacts 24th Jan 2013:  Evening I have bought data card. Shop Keeper not told that I have to contact [protected] for activation not mentioned anything on data card box. 29-Jan-2013:  I asked him why it is not detected still now. For that he asked to contact [protected], I contacted immediately, they told number will activate within one hour. I have tried after 1 hour but failed to detect data card. 30-Jan-3012:  Shop owner asked to contact Ravi(Supplier) - [protected]. I have explained him that I have tried in my Linux OS and tried other windows but not detected in any. Ravi asked to return data card to shop then he will check device. And replied with saying device is activated not replied anything about detection of data card device. 4-Feb-2013:  Shop owner asked to contact[protected] for complaint. They told data card model not support on Red Hat Linux. I asked for the one which is working in Red Hat Linux OS. They contacted Ravi to handover the device which supports Red Hat Linux OS.