SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: PLEASE HELP ME EXPOSE AND TAKE DOWN THE MASSIVE SCAM THAT IS DR BATRAS
DATE: 2022-08-26
SCORE: 434
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/wxtxxv/please_help_me_expose_and_take_down_the_massive/

--- POST TEXT ---

Edit: hey guys don't incriminate me for seeking homeopathy please, I do acknowledge i didn't know any better at the time. I am now seeking a treatment from my dermat, I've mentioned in the post too. I thougt I'll make a post just so I can get it public attention for people similar to me who didn't know any better.

TLDR; DR BATRA IS GIGANTIC FRAUD THAT FEEDS ON NOT ONLY PEOPLE'S INSECURITIES, BUT ALSO SERIOUS AILMENTS AND DESPARATION. Their doctors have no idea what t-cells are, what enzymes are, what autoimmunity is and they claim to treat autoimmune issues. You can ask them if you ever visit and they won't be able to answer. 

Guys all I can say is, it hurts me to no extent that such shit is allowed to exists this freely where we live, and please, once and for all, let's just stop these bastards from duping innocent people who are dealing with issues already. I'm just,19, there's not much I can do on my own, but please help me circulate this and stop these fuckers. 

Around April is when I started experiencing copious amounts of hairloss and I let it continue for a good 2 months putting my fooding habits, the humidity, hard water etc. to blame. Yet even after 2 months, it only kept increasing and started taking a toll on my mental health. I told my mom about it and she said she'd take me to the doctor soon, which is how I ended up at Dr Batra's. They have their ads at the top of every hairloss related Google search, on Instagram, on Facebook, random websites, they spam on SMS with their adverts, extremely diabolical marketing, but I can understand why someone would fall for their trap. Even on YouTube, they've tried to flood their channel with hundreds of fake testimonials which helps them lure their innocent victims. I'll emphasize even more on their shitty marketing later, however here is my experience at their clinic. 

I walked into their Karol Bagh clinic around June, with the consultation fees being only 199, which again should have been a red flag because no legitimate and respectable doctor would need to put the '99' gimmicky figure at the end of their fees, however I was so desperate, I looked it over along with many other red flags until it was too late. The clinic was spotless clean, there was a reception with a lot of Dr batra products arranged around it (which are all bottom tier trash), there were sign boards of celebrity testimonials from Dhoni, to Saif Ali Khan etc. very vaguely appreciating and recommending Dr batra, which was something that made me hopeful and kept me there. 

My mom and I were the only 2 people in the clinic for what seems to be a very long time, and the receptionist had us fill a form with the clause "that no matter what happens the money paid won't be refunded", the form was uselessly ambiguous too, but made to look like it gave a good overview of all types of hairloss even though it only showed male pattern baldness. But someone who would not know about hairloss types would very easily be convinced that there is only one type of hair loss in men that is the one depicted on the form.

We waited around half an hour after filling the form eventhough the guy who would be my treating doctor was roaming around the clinic freely and joking with the receptionist to an extent, I didn't even realize he would be my treating doctor. Half an hour wait and I'm called into a booth, the so called doctor looked at my form, asked me what the issue is and then he put this very zoomed in microscopic machine on my scalp which displayed it on the computer monitor and he went on to say some extremely scary and negative things about my hair such as the density being extremely low and that my hairloss is irrecoverable, there was so much fear mongering that I was moments away from breaking down in tears. He then said I still have a chance at saving my 'remaining hair' after their treatment and that I need to start asap. He diagnosed me with seborrheic dermatitis, which is no where near my actual diagnosis from a real dermat. 

Before discussing the treatment, we discussed the treatment packages which should have been the biggest red flag yet, but I was so scared that I couldn't think rationally. They said their treatments showed 97.77% positive results which is absolute bull crap, please don't fall for this shit like I did, they said that I require a 3 month package minimum, cost rs17500 just for the medicines which is fucked up considering how cheap homeopathy usually is. This much money despite the terrible efficacy rates homeopathy has. 

They also made me pay extra for their useless fancy supplementary treatments, one of which was the HVT. They gave me a helmet with spikes inside it to wear on my head and sit for 20 minutes, however there was nothing coming out of the helmet, no light, no temperature change, nothing and it wasn't sanitized before use, God knows how many heads it has been on. They said my treatment includes a 'personalized' diet chart however all they gave me was a sheet with the most 'generic' fucking dietary habits possible, not one single thing was personalized about it. 

Here's where I started realizing it's a bloody fraud, after my helmet therapy facade, the doc guy called me into his booth and asked me so many questions that weren't hairloss related at all. Questions about my leadership qualities, about introvertedness etc, the fuck they gonna do for my hairloss??? But he shut me up saying they prescribe medicines based on personality. He also prescribed their brand's unreasonably overpriced shampoo, conditioner and toner all of which increased my hairfall, dried up my scalp and gave me dandruff. 

After psychoanalysing me, dude said my medication was already ready at the counter and I was like huh? He didn't even call the counter, had no contact with the receptionist whatsoever then how is my medicine at the counter already? At the counter this dude gave 4 yellow packets of the homeopathy sugarballs and said I have to eat them in a pattern or I'll have terrible consequences, major wtf moment. Then I went home. Dissatisfied, I called them to ask what an autoimmune disease is and dude had no idea what 't-cells' are or what enzymes are, and he had been practicing for 9 years, I broke down in tears and cut the call. 

I have been having them for the last 2 months and my hairfall has worsened so much, nothing about the experience sat right with me. I looked up it's reviews online and let's just say these people are some of the cheekiest fuckers.

Here's the video of a person who was diagnosed with hairloss at Dr batras despite having none, his experience too was eerily similar to mine. 

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=SO34U1Iv8D4

I also found this reddit thread discussing Dr batra. Whats funny is that there are some reviews at the bottom of the thread by allegedly real people saying they've had positive experiences. However they've all been fabricated as they're all written by a generic Indian first name followed by a surname, eventhough no one on reddit puts their real name in the user and if you click their profiles, they display dr batra adverts. Again no legitimate organization would resort to this bullshit. 

They've followed a similar pattern and inundated quora with similar reviews for not only hair and skin problems, but also issues like diabetes and autoimmune diseases which is so so dangerous and absolutely past the threshold of acceptable immorality. The more I look into it, the more I marvel about how low they can stoop. 

The reddit thread (see profiles of last 3 users): 

https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/2ogldt/how_big_a_scam_is_dr_batras/

When it comes to refunds, you can beg, plead, threat, no matter what all these doctors turn hostile and ask you write a mail to get your refund/issues resolved. However there is never a single follow up to those requests by any authority. You can see it here on consumer complaints forums, thousands having similar experience to me. God knows how abhorrent they have to be to claim 97.77% positive results.

https://www.consumercomplaints.in/dr-batras-b107812

Guys all I can say is, it hurts me to no extent that such shit is allowed to exists this freely where we live, and please, once and for all, let's just stop these bastards from duping innocent people who are dealing with issues already. I'm just a M,19, there's not much I can do on my own, but please help me circulate this and stop these fuckers. I'll put this below my tldr as well just in case no one wants to read the whole thing. 

LET'S SHUT DOWN THEIR BUSINESS ONCE AND FOR ALL.