SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Scam by CA Wallah by PW
DATE: 2024-09-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1f8fy5h/scam_by_ca_wallah_by_pw/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm 18F.

This is gonna be too long because they have endless no of scams in this coaching institute running in the f2f batch for ca intermediate may 2025 in Laxmi nagar, Delhi.

So, when I was giving my foundation exam in June 2024, I somehow got convinced that I should enroll in early bird batch for ca intermediate.
 They said that the batch will start from 15 July and if we join the batch late, we will miss out on our syllabus. So I pre-registered for it as I took some lectures from youtube and I liked the teachers teaching style 

Scam no 1.
They told that batch will start on 15 July but they started only 1-2 subjects per day and that too 1 hour class only and most of the days cancelled the class. They kept delaying saying that after foundation declaration they will start the batch but after weeks of declaration also they didn't start. They finally said that they will start the batch from 20 August. Literally 5 weeks.

Scam no 2.
The teachers they showed us during counseling were different and then half of the teachers who taught us were different. They faked that too for their marketing and got money from us by showing different teachers.

Scam no 3.
Writing this post on 03 September, till date they haven't given us any single book, they keep saying that teachers are taking time to amend the books, but today I asked one teacher, he said that he gave the books from his side 1 month ago.

Scam no 4.
Every Saturday they cancel the class, till now there's only one Saturday they took the class. And the worst part is they don't even inform that they have the entire clases for the day. We come, spend our 3-4 hours of travel time and our money and then they say go back home.

Scam no 5.
Accordingly from 16 july, they couldn't even cover a single chapter from any of the subject. They don't even care to take the classes.

Scam no 6.
They delay the classes a lot. Teachers don't come on time at all. They literally come 1 hour late. Having class at 8, they come at 9 and they proceed to teach as if nothing happened.
Due to this, no proper schedule is followed, we don't know how much break time do we have, or when will the next class start.

Scam no 7.
During the counselling they said that we have 24/7 doubt support and then after paying the fees, when I asked them they said that you can ask the doubts in the class from the teacher no online support will be provided.

Scam no 8. 
They don't even take the full classes like 8 to 5 as they said. 8 to 2:30, they take up the subjects for 2 hours or 1:30 hours. Also before 20 aug, they didn't take a single class for audit and after 20 aug, they didn't take a single class for law. They are completely ignoring the subjects.

There are endless things especially the rude behaviour of staff and receptionist. Whenever you ask them for something, they keep sending you to any other staff and this loop contines.

I paid 51700 after the discount of early bird. They are not even returning the money.
It was my decision to join this institute because of pw brand value and teachers good teaching style on YouTube. But that's the worst decision I ever made in my life. I completely wasted the money, now I don't know how to prepare, can't purchase another batch and have wasted my 2 months. I am stressed and don't know what to do.

Please any suggestions 🙏🏻