SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Iran’s embassy in India buckles under Pak pushback, deletes tweets thanking ‘people of Kashmir, India’
AUTHOR: Debdutta Chakraborty
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/diplomacy/irans-embassy-in-india-buckles-under-criticism-deletes-tweets-thanking-people-of-kashmir-india/2887803/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Shortly after thanking India and the “kind people of Kashmir” in multiple posts on X, the Iranian embassy here deleted the posts without any clarification—amid criticism, largely from Pakistan-based accounts, for referring to Kashmir as part of India. The now-deleted posts expressed gratitude for humanitarian aid amid ongoing tensions in West Asia.
The Iranian Embassy in India has since shared and amplified content from Iranian state media thanking “Kashmiris,” without any mention of India.
One post—deleted shortly after it was posted—read: “We sincerely thank the kind people of Kashmir…This kindness will never be forgotten. Thank you, India.”
Show Full Article
Another described a woman in Kashmir who donated gold kept in memory of her late husband, concluding with: “Thank you #Kashmir. Thank you #India.”
A reshared version of the video embedded in one of the posts later appeared with a shortened caption that omitted any reference to India or Kashmir, stating only: “We will never forget your kindness.”
We will never forget your kindness.
pic.twitter.com/mLbk27DFKy
— Iran in India (@Iran_in_India)
March 24, 2026
The deletions triggered reactions on both sides. Some Pakistan-based X users argued that Kashmir is disputed territory and should not be described as part of India.
On the other side, Indian X users questioned the decision to delete the references, with some calling on the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to respond.
The episode comes against the backdrop of longstanding sensitivities between Iran and India surrounding Kashmir.
India maintains that the entire region of Kashmir is Indian territory, and that the subject of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir is a “bilateral” issue to be addressed within the framework of India-Pakistan ties.
Humanitarian aid to Iran from the region ranging from cash and jewellery have surged in the past month, particularly among segments of the local Shia Muslim community.
The sequence of events also echoes earlier tensions in diplomatic messaging between New Delhi and Tehran.
In 2019, after India revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, the then Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had publicly expressed concern over the situation of Muslims in the region. India, in a sharp response,
summoned the then Iranian Ambassador
Ali Chegeni.
Then in 2020, Ali Khamanei also commented on the Northeast Delhi riots and most recently in 2024, referred to Muslims in India when talking about the
‘repression of the Ummah’
.
Despite this, India has maintained strategic bilateral ties with Iran.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the Lok Sabha Monday that India’s position has remained consistent from the outset when it comes to the West Asia conflict, expressing deep concern over the situation, calling for de-escalation, and firmly opposing attacks on civilians as well as critical energy and transport infrastructure.
(Edited by Amrtansh Arora)
Also Read:
‘India knows where its interest lies’—how New Delhi is coping as Iran war escalates