SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I got a video call on Skype. I rejected it. After a few days an unknown number video called me on Whatsapp. I attended it, told her to F off and shut the call . It was a Filipino woman. I used a public Wifi in Philippines and I guess that’s when i got compromised.Apparently she has been watching me.
DATE: 2022-11-03
SCORE: 1077
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/yl9sa2/i_got_a_video_call_on_skype_i_rejected_it_after_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

The scammer from Philippines has hacked my windows Laptop and has been watching me do stuff inside my room. 

She has videos of me without clothes walking around, coming out of the shower, undressing, and etc. 

When I told her that I don’t care she sent me the screenshots of those videos along with my relatives’ FB profiles and my PayPal account. 

I deleted my PayPal account, removed all the details from my Fb account. 

Then she messaged me from a new number and told me that she will get very angry if I block her. She say she is ok if I don’t pay but I’m not allowed to block her. 

Then she changed her mind within a few seconds and told me that she is going to release my nudes to the world. 

I knew nobody is gonna look at my nudes so, I told her to F off and that I don’t care if she posted my nudes online. I told her that I’m not going to pay her. 

I think she posted some pics. She posted my nudes back when Tumblr was open to NSFW. She posted with my username so some guys messaged me. I told them that it was leaked by a hacker. To be honest I didn’t care that my pics were floating around. After a few months, luckily Tumblr crashed and took all the NSFW out. 

After all these days she has been just messaging me “hi” once every 6 months. I told her that I’m broke now and I can’t pay her any money. She just keeps sending me “Hi” to remind me that she has my number and my nudes. 

What to do?

UPDATE 1: I reported her account to PayPal. I gave them all the details. I have sent one report to FBI and planning to give the details to the local cops at my place too along with Indian Cybercrime branch

UPDATE 2: Stop asking me for my nudes.