SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Posters targeting Chouhan and Nath over graft spark Cong-BJP slugfest in poll-bound MP
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2023-06-23
URL: https://theprint.in/india/posters-targeting-chouhan-and-nath-over-graft-spark-cong-bjp-slugfest-in-poll-bound-mp/1640112/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Bhopal, Jun 23 (PTI) Ahead of the year-end Assembly polls, the BJP and the Congress slugged it out on Friday over posters of Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his predecessor Kamal Nath that surreptitiously surfaced here and contained corruption charges.
It was not immediately clear who put up these posters in Bhopal as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the main Opposition outfit sought to wash off their hands from the “poster war” with argument that it was a fallout of “infighting” in their respective state unit.
Chouhan, a senior BJP leader, and Nath, the MP Congress president, are expected to lead the campaign of their respective party in the Assembly polls likely to be held in November.
Show Full Article
It all started in the afternoon when posters of the MP Congress president surfaced in the Shahpura area dubbing him as “corrupt Nath” and “wanted”, and linking him to a number of “scams”. The posters also featured a QR code with the message “Scam se bachne ke liye scan kare” (scan to prevent scams).
After a while, two posters with Chouhan’s pictures and captioned, “Not Shivraj, But Scam Rule” and “ Shivraj’s 18 years of rampant scams and frauds” with a mention of the Vyapam scam — an admission and recruitment racket — came up alongside a busy link road just a stone’s throw away from the state Congress office.
Later on, the CM’s posters sprang up at four other places in the state capital, eyewitnesses said.
An angry Nath claimed the posters targeting him were put up to tarnish his image ahead of the polls, where the Congress and the BJP will be engaged in a direct fight.
“They want to sully my image, but they won’t succeed,” the former CM told reporters in Bhopal without naming anyone.
Nath asserted his 47-year-long political career has been blemish-free and no one has ever pointed fingers at him for any wrongdoing.
“If there were allegations against my 15-month-long government (December 2018-March 2020), the BJP would have probed them as the party is in power for the last three years in Madhya Pradesh,” he said.
“People are a witness to my clean political life and I don’t need any certificate from the BJP,” the former Union minister said.
A state Congress functionary said the Opposition party has nothing to do with Chouhan’s posters and hinted it was insiders job.
“There is a fierce battle going on in the BJP over leadership in MP and efforts are on to defame chief minister Chouhan. BJP people are doing such things to create an impression in the minds of people that the Congress was behind such acts. Our party does not believe in such an ideology and style,” MP Congress Intellectual Cell Chairman Bhupendra Gupta told PTI when contacted over the phone for his comment.
State BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma said his party has nothing to do with Nath’s posters and claimed they were an outcome of “internal fight” in the Opposition party.
Congress workers led by former state minister P C Sharma and senior leader JP Dhanopia went to the Chuna Bhatti police station to file a complaint and seek registration of an FIR to find out who was behind the posters targeting Nath.
They staged a protest following which the police took their written complaint for investigation, a Congress leader said.
The last MP Assembly polls in 2018 threw up a hung Assembly with the Congress emerging as the single largest party with 114 seats in the 230-member House. The BJP won 109 seats.
The Congress, after 15 years in Opposition, formed a coalition government under Nath, but it fell in March 2020 when nearly two dozen MLAs loyal to Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia quit and later joined the BJP.
The saffron outfit then returned to power and Chouhan took over as chief minister. PTI LAL MAS RSY
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.