SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Aapke bacho ko dangai banaya ja raha hai (your kids are being made riot mongers)
DATE: 2022-02-01
SCORE: 94
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/shbhxf/aapke_bacho_ko_dangai_banaya_ja_raha_hai_your/

--- POST TEXT ---

This was a warning Ravish Kumar had given on TV a few years back. I remember thinking to myself that this dude is so extra. Welp, I was wrong.

Kids that were 8-12 years old in 2014 are 16-20 today. That means that they are THE generation that really grew up with the smartphone, the internet and with social media. It seems to me like tech has played a huge role in 'influentual' years of these kids, and that includes the propoganda, the nationalism and the hindutva. This is the generation that is making the memes online today.

There are so many subs now that in the name of sarcasm and humor are simply hating on muslims and cyber bullying minorities. I mean i get it, it's humor to some and maybe its just not funny to me, but man oh man read the comments. It's in these discussions that they cannot contain the hate. It's disturbing how comfortable they are to really to abuse and degrade minorities specially muslims, once given this mask of anonimity. I don't remember this happening a few years back. Sure we had memes and made jokes but it was atleast good taste. It wasn't just something disgusting and offensive written infront of a dumb movie scene with dumb music to pass off as a meme. 

I really had a lot of hope for the new generation man. I was under the impression that it is all coming together. Afterall we exist in the most peaceful time in human history, religion and caste would divide us less and less till it was all good. Really looks like we are going backwards again to the time before the Brits and India will be in pieces by conflicts within and be open to exploit for powers outside.

Making a joke on muslims or islam is not something I'm against but making a joke just to hate on people is segregation of society. These so called Hindus and nationalists are not laughing at the joke, they are laughing at minorities being the butt of the joke.