SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: National Technology Day: Generative AI known as ‘creative AI’ has more opportunities than risks
AUTHOR: ANI
DATE: 2023-05-11
URL: https://theprint.in/economy/national-technology-day-generative-ai-known-as-creative-ai-has-more-opportunities-than-risks/1568395/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi [India], May 11 (ANI): With more and more companies willing to go the AI way, experts have expressed that generative artificial intelligence (AI) otherwise known as ‘creative AI’ has more opportunities than risks.
With the advent of ChatGPT, AI segment has garnered so much interest and fear at the same time. There is interest because most CEOs have said AI foundation models will play an important role in their organisations’ strategies in the next 3-5 years. While there is fear because these technologies will take away jobs or work in any organization across the board.
On the occasion of National Technology Day, ANI asked experts about the interest in the segment and the disruption that lies ahead of us.
Show Full Article
Vic Gupta, Chief Technology Officer, Coforge, told ANI, “Generative AI (GAI), sometimes also referred as “Creative AI”, is based on neural language models and has lately garnered a lot of interest and sparked a lot of discussion in the community. We believe that GAI has more opportunities than risks and that we are yet to explore its true potential to improve our productivity, ingenuity, creativity, efficiency and communication.”
Content creators can leverage ChatGPT for various purposes. It can assist in brainstorming ideas, providing inspiration, or generating drafts for articles, blog posts, or social media content. It can also answer questions, provide explanations, or engage in interactive conversations with users.
Sundar Balasubramanian, Managing Director, India & SAARC, Check Point Software Technologies, said “Generative AI-based capabilities have been around for a while though ChatGPT recently took centre stage. It has powerful language capabilities and presents a game-changing opportunity for businesses irrespective of their size. However, Generative AI like ChatGPT is a double-edged sword.”
While it can help developers write and fix code quicker, enable better chat services for companies, or even replace search engines, the Check Point MD said it also poses a risk if used by hackers who can leverage it to potentially create malware and phishing emails, leading to more cyberattacks.
In order to curb these cyber attacks, Balasubramanian said, “We have over 150 researchers within our Check Point Research team researching new threats, emerging cyber threats and ongoing cyberattacks, with a dedicated team who are just working on ChatGPT-related research. We also have engines like AI and ML embedded in our technology solutions to help block more threats.”
The MD said the firm will continue to research and probe into the threat landscape associated with ChatGPT. “We have been advising our clients to put different controls in place to cover the security risks of emerging cyber threats like ransomware, and this growing threat from Generative AI,” he added. (ANI)
This report is auto-generated from ANI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.