SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Being harassed by delivery guy
DATE: 2023-04-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/12hv4q2/being_harassed_by_delivery_guy/

--- POST TEXT ---

So this delivery guy from xpressbees has been delivering my parcels since the past year or so.
Mostly my orders are COD. I’ve never had issues with any delivery guys in the past. Even if it’s a COD order they hand me the parcel first and then they pull up the QR code for payment. In the meanwhile I sometimes open the parcel and sometimes I don’t. But I’ve never EVER returned any parcel after opening on the spot or refused to pay incase there’s an issue with the contents. I understand it’s not the delivery guy’s issue and that I have to connect with the website that I purchased from.

On 24th March, this delivery guy from xpressbees was to deliver 4 orders - 2 from Ajio, 1 from Superdry and 1 from Nykaa. Number of articles is always mentioned on the shipping label.
This was the first time he didn’t hand me the parcels. He had them tightly held between his upper arm and chest and asked me to first scan the QR code. I didn’t think much of it and made the payment for all 3. I asked him about Nykaa and he said his brother has it as it was assigned to his brother and that he’ll get it in like 10mins as his brother is in the next building. I made the payment for the 4th parcel and he left. In the meantime I started opening the other packages.

After opening the parcels I found 1 article of clothing was missing in one of the packages. I immediately called up Ajio and the lady asked me to check thoroughly for tampering. It is important to mention that I have never till date faced any tampering issue. So she guided me where to look and unfortunately I found where it was tampered. She asked me to send pictures and a complaint was raised.

While all this happened he had still not returned with my Nykaa order. I called him and his phone was switched off. That’s when I panicked because I had a strong feeling that he had tampered the parcel and now he’s trying to get away with a fake delivery as he had marked my Nykaa order delivered.

I called xpressbees and they confirmed the name of the delivery person who had come and said that the parcel was assigned to him only and not his brother. They said they are raising a complaint against him and will ensure the order gets delivered. 

A good 30-35mins had passed and he hadn’t returned. I found out his brother’s number somehow and called him. Brother said he doesn’t have the parcel. So I threatened him with a police complaint and he said he will try to reach him and ask him to deliver.

After 1 hr the delivery guy finally came and acted as if nothing had happened. I confronted him about the tampering and he admitted that he didn’t handover the parcel to me first and it was his fault. I pressured him to call his manager and the manager tried to turn it around on me saying that I should have checked the seal before making the payment. And when I told him that his delivery guy didn’t hand it over, he hung up on me. The delivery guy said he can’t do anything and left. His behaviour and body language were extremely shady and I felt like he was involved in this somehow.

Ajio took a good 13 days to investigate the issue and finally told me they wouldn’t refund because the courier company told them that they delivered a sealed parcel. The next time when the same delivery guy came to deliver another order I again confronted him and asked him why did he lie about delivering a sealed parcel? He says to me “I delivered a sealed parcel and when I came after 1 hr you had already opened it so I didn’t see the tampering before it was opened”. He tried to imply that I stole the dress and messed with the seal. I asked him again if the parcel was tampered or not and why was he switching his statements like this. He then admitted that it was tampered.

I finally filed a complaint with consumer helpline and Ajio refunded me the amount the next day. 

Now yesterday morning he came to deliver an order from Tata Cliq Luxury. He came with a very bad attitude and refused to let me check the packaging for tampering. It was a COD order so I rejected it. Then in the evening I get a message from xpressbees saying that they could not deliver the order because “customer wanted open delivery”. 

This is the third time he has deliberately lied and tried to mess with my order.

I want to know what can I do to deal with this issue. I have complained to xpressbees multiple times but they refuse to take any action. Can I take any legal action against him? I don’t know if that’s an option. I’m now scared to place any orders online because what if it is assigned to xpressbees then again this guy will try to cause trouble.