SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Why are Pakistanis angry with David Warner now? He called PSL captains ‘school kids’
AUTHOR: Triya Gulati
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/david-warner-psl-captains-school-kids/2889127/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
In the pre-tournament captains’ press conference of the Pakistan Super League, Karachi Kings captain David Warner snapped at fellow skippers. Fans were quick to call the Australian batter over his ‘unprofessional behaviour’.
The incident occurred as Warner was talking about his team’s chances of winning the PSL. Meanwhile, Marnus Labuschagne (Hyderabad Kingsmen), Shaheen Afridi (Lahore Qalandars), Muhammad Rizwan (Rawalpindi), Babar Azam (Peshawar Zalmi) and Saud Shakeel (Quetta Gladiators) were seen discussing something else and laughing. Warner stopped midway and said, “What’s wrong? Sorry, gentlemen, we have got school kids here.”
Many users on
X said
the players broke into laughter because
Rizwan farted
.
Show Full Article
“Rizwan farted during the PSL captains…press conference, and all the captains started laughing.”
Pakistan cricket fans were quick to call out Warner. Sharing a screenshot of him using his mobile phone in the middle of the media interaction, an X user, Urooj Jawed, slammed PSL management as well.
“Unserious Behavior at PSL Press Conference? During today’s PSL press conference, David Warner was spotted using his mobile phone. This behavior is not considered appropriate for a senior and experienced player. At the very least, it’s essential to observe basic etiquette on important occasions like press conferences.”
“If PSL wants to become a world-class league, it will need to strictly enforce such matters to maintain a professional environment,” read the
tweet
.
Also read:
‘Krishna played cricket first’— Sanatan Premier League gives the game a Hindu makeover
Watch-from-home model
The PSL is set to begin on 26 March, two days before IPL, with the final being scheduled for 3 May. This season, the tournament has been reduced from six venues to just two, with all matches now scheduled in Lahore and Karachi. Additionally, the opening ceremony in Lahore has also been called off.
“With the tournament temporarily shifting to a watch-from-home model, the PSL will introduce enhanced broadcast and production features aimed at delivering an even stronger viewing experience for fans across Pakistan and around the world,” a PCB media statement said.
“The league remains confident that the passion of its audience, combined with innovation in coverage, will make this edition one of the most widely watched in its history.”