SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Scam or not?
DATE: 2024-12-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1h69ntc/scam_or_not/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi folks! Yesterday afternoon, I received a call from an unknown number- 9036780743 (trucaller shows Delhivery verified number). I could not pick the call as I was at a meeting, and I was also expecting a parcel from Delhivery at my office.

This morning, I received a call again from the same number saying that he is at my location. I was getting ready for my office and asked whether he is in front of the office building, he said outside your apartment. That was my first flag, as I rarely order stuff at my home unless it is a prime delivery and will definitely come on weekends.

Still, I decided to check it out. I went downstairs and the person said it is a CoD of 699. My second flag, as I almost never order CoD, unless I am unsure about the buyer. It was a small box and the description said 'Yahya Whitening Toothpaste'. Also, the box was open at one end. I knew this order was not for us, but still decided to check with my partner who was also getting ready for office. As expected, she had not placed this order as well. Next we checked our phones for keywords with 'toothpaste', 'delhivery', 'yahya', but nothing. That was our third flag.

I requested the guy that this order was not for me and to cancel the order. He was very helpful and then told me he needed an OTP to cancel. I know that is even a standard with Amazon/ Flipkart, but for some reason, that came as another flag to me. I told him that I don't want to share OTP because we listen a lot about these scams, to which he started explaining me that we have to see how the OTP scam messages begin, and then share the OTP. I was still not convinced and refused to share OTP. The guy simply got pissed and told me he won't bring any of my future orders even if they are "good". I explained that there is absolutely no trail of us placing this order, no notifications on the same, and the box is also open. He continued with his rant saying we wasted his time, we don't think about others, and how he would block my future orders. I didn't think much of this as I order mostly at my office, and rarely from Delhivery.

TL;DR: Refused to recieve a CoD order (with open box) from Delhivery and give cancellation OTP, as there was no order or notification trail on the phone for the purchase.

I wanted to ask the folks here if you think it was right to not share the OTP, or if this was indeed a genuine order, which just didn't have any trail on our phones?