SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: DMK sheltering expelled AIADMK leaders, alleges Edappadi Palaniswami
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-30
URL: https://theprint.in/india/dmk-sheltering-expelled-aiadmk-leaders-alleges-edappadi-palaniswami/2892526/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Kadayanallur (Tamil Nadu), Mar 30 (PTI) AIADMK general secretary Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday slammed the ruling DMK for “sheltering” those expelled from his party and said it would gain nothing from them in the ensuing Assembly elections.
He wondered whether the DMK was in power, as it appeared to depend on those expelled from the AIADMK to contest the elections.
Palaniswami said the DMK had given tickets to 19 leaders expelled from the AIADMK.
Show Full Article
These include expelled leaders O Panneerselvam and R Vaithilingam.
During the election campaign, Palaniswami accused the DMK of “sheltering” those expelled from the AIADMK. “Is there any gain from invalid votes? They have taken in those whom we cast out,” Palaniswami said while garnering votes for his party candidate, C Krishnamurali here.
But AIADMK, formed by late chief minister M G Ramachandran and nurtured by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, was not like the DMK. “Ours is a cadre-based organisation,” the former CM, who is seeking re-election from Edappadi Assembly constituency, said.
The DMK was dependent on its allies, and Chief Minister M K Stalin boasts of having several parties in his alliance. But irrespective of the number of parties in that alliance, one could win the elections only when the people deliver their mandate, he said.
“The AIADMK, which banks on the people for support, has formed the alliance to serve the people, to resolve their problems and to dislodge the DMK from power,” Palaniswami said.
He alleged that several attempts were made to “break” the AIADMK, but the party only emerged stronger by overcoming the hurdles imposed by its political foes.
Palaniswami said the AIADMK would waive off the crop loans of farmers once it formed the government by winning over 200 seats. PTI JSP SSK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.