SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Rental scam in Japan? Or something more sinister?
DATE: 2025-01-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1iafyph/rental_scam_in_japan_or_something_more_sinister/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am currently in Tokyo on a holiday with my family.

There was a lone girl (maybe mid-20s) outside our Airbnb around 10pm asking for help locating the apartment that she was assigned to by her work. Tried our absolute best to communicate with her but she spoke pretty broken English. We did a really quick google maps search of the address she was provided which had absolutely no results, but looking at the address it was definitely in the vicinity.

We told her we couldn’t find the address and to go to a nearby 7-eleven to ask the staff there. We didn’t really think anything of it but I checked the internet for the address and found a listing for that exact address with coordinates on a google map.

I ran back downstairs to try and help her find this building but when we reached the area it was just a dilapidated building that looked nothing like the listing.

We looked around the area a little more and couldn’t find anything remotely similar, she even showed me the listing that was provided to her on her own phone and it was the same set of coordinates. 

She was a little teary but I walked her to a nearby Family mart and told her to call someone from there or ask the staff for help.

I’m almost 100% certain she was scammed. But I’m still really concerned for her safety. When I was trying to help her find the place, she was taking pictures of nearby buildings and sending them to what I am pretty sure is the “agent” who rented her the building.

Things you might find important (?)
- She said she was from India here for a 1 month business trip (she has two decent sized luggage with her)
- The listing she showed me on her phone was SO sketchy. I didn’t get a thorough look but it was full of flashing banners and odd colours saying if you “book now you’ll get a discount”, that sort of thing.
- She said her company sent her here and got the apartment for her. (Company name was KVDI or something similar)
- Her booking confirmation wasn’t even an email on her mail app, it was just a photo of an email on a computer 
- She was texting the booking agent (I think) but getting no replies

I went back down to tell her to go to the police station or call her embassy, but she was gone by then

Is this just a rental type scam? Or something worse. I’m worried that now that someone (ie the agent) knows that she is lost and exactly where she is.