SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My (21F) brother (23M) got scammed of $2,180 (180K INR) as he was scared they will share his nudes
DATE: 2023-08-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/163l86r/my_21f_brother_23m_got_scammed_of_2180_180k_inr/

--- POST TEXT ---

My (21F) brother (23M) was visibly very disturbed last night. His work is very stressful so I didn't think much of it at first. He asked to borrow some money, saying his friend needed it. I was fine with it. 

He, then, took my phone without my knowledge and transferred more money to himself. Later, I noticed him leaving the room with my phone. Now, I caught on to the thought that he is doing something suspicious. I asked and he told me that someone is threatening him to pay them money, by sharing his nudes. They did share his videos with some of his Facebook friends and unsent them after receiving money. They were asking for more money to permanently delete these images from their mobile phone. I asked if we really need to do that. He started crying and trembling and said that he needed to try that, otherwise they will ruin his reputation. (We live in India and this would have been a huge problem because the people they sent his nudes were close relatives) He has a heart disease and he was trembling and crying so I panicked and asked one of friends (21F) for money (I exceeded the day's limit to transfer money). 

My friend got scared as well and kept asking what has happened. I tried to not share much as it would have affected my brother's social image. She got stressed and called other people and they contacted me. It was all very stressful. Again, they asked for more money. I, then, contacted the national cyber security cell and filed a complaint. My brother was advised to block and ignore the empty threats of this person. They sent the videos to some of his Facebook friends again and he was obviously scared and put up a story asking people to not pay attention to any video message of his, saying his account has been hacked. We felt like we couldn't share this with our parents as my father is depressed and would have probably needed to get admitted in a hospital after hearing about this. (This happened one time, when he saw my brother with a bottle of vodka)

I informed my family today morning (uncles and cousins) about this. We visited cyber crime cell in our city and the banks. After talking to these many people, we do feel better. Cyber cell told us they would try to freeze their account and get our money back. Our family has been supportive towards him. We also called a couple of the people whom they sent these videos to. Apparently, they unsent the videos after he blocked them. Things look better now but last night was one of the worst nights for me. I didn't sleep a wink.

The friend, from whom I got the money has called ~20 times today and I will obviously pay her back immediately. But I don't like the fact she told so many people about this even though I specifically asked her not to. I feel like that people won't treat me same now. They will look down upon me. Looking back, I know I shouldn't have paid these people but I panicked and I am very ashamed now. I don't know how I am gonna ever face people.