SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Phishing Case
DATE: 2023-12-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18sjnet/phishing_case/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently i was hacked somehow, I used an old samsung M series as my payment phone. I used to use gpay and other upi platforms on a daily basis. I had my Yono sbi app there too. Few days ago i got a call from my friend stating that I have requested money from him on gpay. I was reluctant at first thinking it was a prank, he told me that he has gotten these requests previously too and they disappear after sometime. I then got a call from my close friend stating that some amount of money was transferred from his gpay to mine without his knowledge and even the transaction history was deleted. Which I didn’t even know could be done. I rushed to my samsung phone and tried seeing the transaction but it wasn’t there . I couldn’t even download my statement as the filter kept showing last month only. Being scared I jumped on a call with my maa and dad . My dad had a friend in IB , he quickly jumped on a call with me and asked me to switch off my phone quickly. He then started asking me questions about who all has access to that phone and few other questions. I realised along the way that I didn’t have any lock on my phone and the phone i was using belonged to my father a long time back. He stated that my phone has been compromised somehow and i was a victim of something called phishing. Someone had access to phone and even to my mail id’s which relate to my gpay. I always noticed that my phone was always on even after i click the power off button. It feels like someone was watching everything i did on that samsung phone. My friend feels kind if betrayed as he got the idea i did something there . The fact is , his mail id was logged in this phone along with mine . The guy at IB suggested that it can also be done when my device was in proximity to my friends . I realise how careless i was , i always thought that my samsung phone is old and broken and thats why it apps open on its own and the screen stays on. I am so embarrassed in front of my friends and family . I am just scared that how many times this must have happened and people must have paid me and i don’t even know . Can Anyone provide some clarity till my phone is checked for malware