SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Italy tourism minister quits in Meloni’s post-referendum purge
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/world/italy-tourism-minister-quits-in-melonis-post-referendum-purge/2888921/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Angelo Amante and Alvise Armellini
ROME, March 25 (Reuters) – Italy’s beleaguered Tourism Minister Daniela Santanche resigned on Wednesday, belatedly obeying a call to go from Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni who is trying to reset her government after a bruising referendum defeat.
Reeling from the rejection of her judicial reforms in the March 22-23 vote, Meloni on Tuesday secured the resignation of two scandal-hit officials and also asked Santanche, long accused of financial wrongdoing, to leave her tourism post.
“Dear Giorgia, As you have officially requested, I hereby tender my resignation,” Santanche wrote in a statement, saying she was going “only in response to a request (from) the leader of my party”.
Show Full Article
While insisting that she should not be made a scapegoat for a referendum defeat “which was certainly not my fault,” she said she had “no difficulty saying ‘I obey’ and doing what you ask of me.”
Santanche — a member of Meloni’s right-wing Brothers of Italy party — initially resisted the highly unusual public demand from the head of the government, who under Italy’s post-war constitution cannot directly sack ministers.
In the wake of the referendum defeat, the prime minister was quoted in the press as saying she was no longer prepared to cover for discredited allies.
OUTSPOKEN STYLE
Known for her outspoken style, Santanche has been mired in long-running legal controversies but had resisted repeated calls from the opposition for her to quit.
She faces a trial on false accounting charges at the Visibilia publishing group she used to own, and prosecutors are also seeking her indictment for alleged benefit fraud at the same company during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In disputes going even further back, she is under investigation in two cases of alleged fraudulent bankruptcy in an organic food group that she was chairwoman of.
Santanche stressed that “to date, my criminal record is spotless” — as none of the cases in which she is embroiled have led to a verdict.
Her decision to quit came after the centre-left opposition tabled a no-confidence motion that would have been discussed next week, creating a potential serious embarrassment for Meloni.
Applause broke out in the lower house of parliament after news of her resignation, with the main opposition group, the Democratic Party, welcoming it, but saying it should have come much sooner.
(Reporting By Angelo Amante and Gavin Jones, editing by Hugh Lawson and Gavin Jones)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.