SUBREDDIT: r/IndiaInvestments
TITLE: Is running Zomato Cloud Kitchens a sound investment/revenue generating idea?
DATE: 2021-04-25
SCORE: 289
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/IndiaInvestments/comments/my1rpn/is_running_zomato_cloud_kitchens_a_sound/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys,
Has anyone of you pondered over running Zomato Kitchens as an investment and money generating stream? Would like to know your views. Zomato's terms are 1. Need to have plot of 2000-3000 sq. ft. 2. Will need to invest 35 lakhs at the beginning. The company promises a monthly guaranteed income. Has not quoted any definite figure. I understand that income varies depending on locality and demographics. How about running it in tier-2 city, rapidly developing locality?

Edit 1 : Guys, I am overwhelmed with your responses. I had not imagined that you would pour out your soul in this discussion. Even a big thank you is not enough to express my gratitude. If I fail to respond to any response please do not think I did not read your response. Reading, thinking, analyzing and appropriately answering your queries is a big task for me and hope you will forgive me in case I fail to respond. I request you to keep bombarding me with queries. Finally I will compile a list of all queries so that this whole discussion will ease the work for all of us when we ponder over this option in future.

Edit 2 : Here is the list of questions that every newbie must go through before holding talks with zomato folks. All the credit goes to the guys who have participated in this discussion. I will refine this list and avoid redundancy, but here it is as promised. 

For potential franchisee/cloud kitchen owner 
What is the business model? Are they asking for a royalty cut from the revenues or is it a fixed franchisee fee every month? You mentioned guaranteed income - how does that factor in here?

 Will the kitchen be run by Zomato or will it be run by you? The rest of the questions are more relevant if it has to be run by you.

 Does Zomato have a good supply chain to ensure fresh ingredients are delivered to you every day?

 How much staff are you expected to retain? How many managers?

 Will they help train your staff to ensure consistency in food preparation?

 Do you have pricing control over menu items?

 Are you contractually obliged to run the cloud kitchen for certain times and during certain days (example holidays)?

 How does Zomato handle complaints from customers about food quality/safety?

 What are the cost of permits in your city to run a kitchen?

If things go well, Zomato has ALL the data and can easily usurp your business by opening a competing "cloud kitchen". This could be via company support OR even a regional manager leaking info to his friend. It's generally good to see if they have non-compete, i.e. won't allow another cloud kitchen in 3KM Radius serving same cuisine or something?

 While we order from these places, we see high markup. How much of that is Zomato vs left on table for food provider?

 Will they further take money from you for promotions etc? (on top of their regular per order cut).

What is the cuisine? North Indian fare has 35-40% food cost, Chinese has 20-25%, South Indian has 15-20% etc

Finally, who runs the show?

Are they asking for a royalty cut from the revenues or is it a fixed franchisee fee every month? You mentioned guaranteed income - how does that factor in here?

 Does Zomato have a good supply chain to ensure fresh ingredients are delivered to you every day?

 How much staff are you expected to retain? How many managers?

 Will they help train your staff to ensure consistency in food preparation?

 Do you have pricing control over menu items?

 Are you contractually obliged to run the cloud kitchen for certain times and during certain days (example holidays)?

 How does Zomato handle complaints from customers about food quality/safety?

 What are the cost of permits in your city to run a kitchen?

 How irreplaceable are you in the chain and for you- if not Zomato then who ?

 How the revenue chain ensures that you are paid reasonably enough.

 What are clear cut real world measurables and rules which you MUST adhere to. 3.1 -- how many months or weeks from when you open, the full fledged SLAs kick in. 3.2 -- how often these rules change 3.3 -- any control/say given to you to get one or two rules specific to you. 3.4 -- any penalty if you want to back out for the owner within a year or some small duration from opening.

For a normal investor : 
Is this your only source of income? If you have another income source that can take care of your basic expenses then the ability to take risk goes up significantly.

What is a ballpark figure of monthly income?

Does the 35 lakh investment represent all/major part of your savings? In other words - what would your finances look like if your investment were to be a total loss?

Do they expect you to own this plot? Then you have to consider its opportunity cost too. Is it rented? Then who bears the rent and this 35Lac covers security deposit etc or not?

What is the revenue sharing/ profit sharing model?

What is the demand for delivery/take away in your immediate neighbourhood?

Will you serve Zomato customers exclusively or does your contract let you tie up with multiple aggregators or reach out to customers directly yourself? If you are not allowed to serve customers outside Zomato's network then that represents a high degree of risk.

Precautions while running the show :: 
 How helpless as a franchisee owner you can get in a legal battle. Remember the cars24 fiasco when they rented places in metros and unable to pay the rent and then highly unreasonable arm twisting with owners.

 This guaranteed income is equivalent to the real estate world's rent clause in case of delayed possession. You would hardly get anything.

 Penalties in case you want to come out.

 Usually in the agreememts there are negotiable and non negotiable clauses, which are totally dependent on your negotiation skills, do you possess them.

 Are they sharing some demographic data with you for your area in leiu if 35 lacs initial investment.

 Will you have to sign a non compete in case you decide to come out of this or transfer/sell thr e franchisee to someone.

 Do you have any choice of vendors while setting up and running the kitchen -- like flooring/roofing/cleaning/metal-sheeting/exhaust/utensils/cooling/freezer/periodic maintenance/packaged-raw-materials etc etc.

 Majorly cctv footage sharing will be huge clause. They might have some AI machine watching and checking for wrong patterns.