SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Someone is trying to take advantage of my aunt and I am worried about what could happen next
DATE: 2021-05-31
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/notg3s/someone_is_trying_to_take_advantage_of_my_aunt/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone this is my first time posting here. I will not put too much personal information for obvious reasons. I come from a small family but we are close to each other. My aunt in her late forties. She has been widowed from some years now and has been living alone with her younger daughter. She is an amazing person with a big heart who loves helping others and sees the best out of everyone and sometimes this can be an issue as people try to take advantage of her. I do not know the whole conversations between my aunt and the following person but I will tell you what I know. One man recently approached her on LinkedIn, he claims to be 54, from Germany, owning a company, etc.

He started befriending her and built his own story based on what she told him. He is also a widower, he lost his wife in a car crash, has a daughter and that he was born on the exact same date and year and my aunt's deceased husband... He started talking to her every day, building that trust and making promises that he is going to come to her country, to get married to her, that they would buy a house TOGETHER and grow old happily. 
Her started selling a dream to her.

All of this without ever having had a single phone call or video call and speaking for a few weeks via LinkedIn.
 

My aunt is not familiar with themes such as catfishing or scamming so she has no idea about all of this. I told my aunt to video call him but she is timid by nature and said she would not do it as she does not feel comfortable.

When we were told about this story, my sister and I found this a bit odd so started doing some research.

This company owner only had his LinkedIn account for a few months and activities from 2 weeks ago. It was mentioned to my aunt but she said it was normal and to not worry about it for some reason.

We then started digging his connections, no one from the company he owns is connected to him. The worst part? You click on his company and there is nothing, no existing employee, info or post.

Most of his connections are not even German, they are from India and Africa...

We then searched his Facebook and the same thing, this guy is a ghost, no posts, 2 photos, one is a selfie of him with many elder women (in their 50s) commenting, you can see that they are all from different countries and one of a house which could be taken off of Google. No friends from Germany, no family photos, no daughter, nothing.

Since he is a successful company owner, we decided to research his company on Google and nothing apart from his site (which I will mention later)

We then reverse searched his images, we found it used on several other profiles. I believe it is a stock image but I am unable to find the source and this worries me, because that person is an extremely good manipulator and he could always tell my aunt that other people stole his image and are using it on their profile.

Next, we got to his website. When checking we found out that the location is Nigeria and when inspecting the coding of the site, the photos of team members on it were called "Whatsapp_image1" etc
These images are of such low quality and distorted that it makes it hard to reverse image search.

The content of their website is also stolen word for word from another website.

I tried sending the website to a friend via Social Media to analyze but I was not allowed to send it as the URL was deemed unsafe. (I don't know what that means)

We showed the info to my aunt and told her how it is all a scam, she was obviously broken and I understand, she has been alone for a long time and life has been hard and even more since the pandemic. I can see that part of her still wants to believe that this is real.

I would like to know if you have any advice on what I could do to help her believe? Or if there are any people/help who can help track scammers so that I get more proof? And usually, what kind of scams do people like this do?

All along I said the scammer was "a person" but I genuinely believe that it is more than one person and everything they do, they do it really well. I am worried that they could manipulate my aunt to make her ignore all those red flags and this scares me.