SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Windows expired and I'm due a refund? Not likely.
DATE: 2019-05-21
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/br06xd/windows_expired_and_im_due_a_refund_not_likely/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently, I had gotten repeated cold calls that left messages claiming to be the refund department of Microsoft, that my subscription had expired, and I was due a refund. After the 15th message in half as many days, I called the number left in the message. I clearly get a call center employee from India who doesn't identify the company at all. I asked why I got a message about a refund and he started into his script. Once finished, I asked how it felt to scam old people out of the little retirement benefit they get. He started to go on a cursing spree, and when he got to the "Fuck Yous" I put on my most pitiful voice and said, "Would you? I'M SO LONELY!". He hung up. 

&amp;#x200B;

So I called back. I asked him if he'd fuck me like they fuck old people. Hung up again.

Once more, with feeling. I got him to go through the whole script again, then told him I didn't want another call coming my way or else I'd spend the rest of the evening getting together with my brother to make his life a misery. Then I hung up, as he cursed.

&amp;#x200B;

Not 10 minutes went by, I get another call and another message with the same number. I sent that number to my brother who is currently between jobs and LOVES these people. It gives him no end of amusement to see how long they take to either block his number or disconnect theirs.

&amp;#x200B;

I end up calling about 15 times, asking many "serious questions" then buttoning it with something like "I have one more question: Why do your people put their dead in their drinking water?" and other such insulting things. Each time it was the SAME EXACT PERSON.

My brother was another force all together. He went on to his favorite scam number sharing forums and opened season on them. He called them just under 100 times in the course of 4 hours, until the number didn't work any more. He kept them on the phone for an average of 5 minutes at a time, once keeping them on for about 30 minutes acting like he was following their directions and asking some of the most asinine computer questions that he could think of, here's an example:

MB: my brother Scammer: Obvious

MB: I get a refund? Oh wow! I could really use it,

Scammer: OK. What you need to do is go to this website

MB: OK, I've found a web in the corner of my room. How does this get me a refund?

Scammer: No No, a website. On your computer.

MB: OH! Ok. Wait, there's no webs on my computer.

Scammer: On the internet.

MB: Ah! Got ya. So Where do I need to go to find this internet? I don't fish.

Scammer: \*Proceeds to tell him how to operate his computer, even though he's being the most special of boys about it.\*

&amp;#x200B;

Minutes go by and then he'd button it with something like "Does Hamburger taste the same in New Delhi as it does in My Deli?" just to see if they'll hang up. The story was surprisingly amusing, and extremely culturally inappropriate. I have a feeling that if that asshole scammer still had something of a soul, he didn't by the end of the run.