SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Watch out for this toll scam by the Uber drivers
DATE: 2019-10-03
SCORE: 17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dcp7th/watch_out_for_this_toll_scam_by_the_uber_drivers/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is something Uber need to fix. Others, make yourself aware of this scam by the Uber drivers(not by Uber themselves) if you are taking Uber towards the electronic city in Bangalore (after posting it to Facebook learnt that this might be in other cities too so posting it here) 

I took Uber yesterday from electronic city to Lalbagh which routed the map via electronic city flyover. Ola clearly states that their fare is not calculated including the toll fee. However, for Uber, its calculated in the fare itself(which I confirmed with them previously) and do not need to pay the ecity toll. The driver tried to take the turn to skip the ecity toll, I gently reminded him to take the map suggested route which is via toll(since fare already included the toll fee). So he took the turn but told that I have to pay the toll. I told him I am aware of the fact that it's included in the Uber fare, he changed his line saying 'He is new to Uber and always driving for OLA before'. 

Once I suggested we can call up the customer care to find out, he changed his line again saying he doesn't have any money on him now. Well, this is something you can't argue about!

This is the trick! - Now you are left with two option. Either you pay for the toll, but then its already calculated in the fare but you pay extra another 50rs(toll fee for the car). Also, driver saves 50rs by the scam.

Another option is to take the route without ecity flyover, which would increase at least another 30 min to 1 hour just to reach silkboard. Of course, time is something we cannot afford. At least not to spend in traffic. 

The same scenario happened with same to same dialogue 3 out of 3 times so far(twice yesterday) whenever I took Uber. Going by that this is the trick used by most of the corrupt Uber driver. The driver will ask if you want him to take the flyover if you say yes, he will say you have to pay, if you already knew about Uber fare rules, then he will simply say he doesn't have the money. And then you are trapped.

I raised an issue through the app that I paid extra cash to the driver. Uber refunded it after a few messages and tweets, but with a warning that I should not pay to the driver. But offer no solution!