SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Car Driver Service scam/racket.
DATE: 2020-02-18
SCORE: 106
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/f5qa0v/car_driver_service_scamracket/

--- POST TEXT ---

There is this huge "hire a driver" racket that is happening on sites like sulekha and justdial.

I just saved myself from one somehow.

Everytime a driver looks up for a job on quikr or anywhere, these guys ("Driver Service Providers") get their contact info and save them.
Now, when a car owner makes a request or searches for driver services through sulekha, they match these drivers to the car owners.
They visit your place, get the driver along. Do a test drive to see if we like the driver's driving etc..

All good so far.

Then they collect a deposit of one month salary from the car owner, anywhere from 12K to 14K and tell if the the driver quits, or if we are not interested in continuing the service, the final month's salary will be given to the driver from this deposit or refunded to the car owner.

They do this, collect money and just poof, company is no more.

Not even the poor drivers are aware of this thing.

I agreed with this agency by name "Quality Find Services" who are apparently put up in Yeshwanthpur that I'd be availing their service and paying the driver 13K every month and that's my budget and then I sent them 13K as deposit in December 2019.

I got my first driver. Everything was going well. He worked for 1 month, I paid him his salary and after 20 days, he quit and they (quality find services) replaced him with another guy (this 20 days of unpaid service is how I was able to not let my deposit money go to waste) they sent another driver who asked for 15k salary. The company guys said I can pay them 13k as I used to pay the old driver and these guys will deposit 2k to the driver's account. This was first told to the driver when he called this agency after I telling him I can only pay 13K per month.

This is where I realized something is fishy. I even checked with them how does this work out for them. They gave me some vague answer. I just assumed they may have multiple customers like me who have deposited the money and they have some sort of rotation happening to get more money (how dumb of me, right?)

Now our driver who is with us from 1 month is trying to call them to get his 2K (even I am trying to) all their 6 numbers are switched off. No trace at all. 

There are lot of these agencies. 
1) Quality find services (Raju)
2) Book My Drive / Driver (Siddarth and Vinod)
3) Bangalore City Drivers (Kishan)

I don't know if should just let it go or file a complaint.
If I do file a complaint, should I approach Cyber crime or Civil or consumer court or something?

Everyone I know said cops don't do jack squat in these cases and they just ignore.

At least I want to spread awareness.