SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Taking action against indebted father.
DATE: 2024-03-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bp7su1/taking_action_against_indebted_father/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I (26M) along with my mom and brother (30M) are completely fed up of dad. The story is very long starting from 2016, I don't even know where to start and how to start, so I'll try to keep it as short as possible and add only relevant points and will add more details if and when needed.

1. In 2016 dad confessed to us that he is in a huge debt ( 15-20 crore ), he was a goldsmith, he used to deal with big jewellers of the market.
2. After confessing he said "either I will commit suicide or we have to run away". But we decided to consult one of our family friend's father who's into a lot of legal stuff, he advised my dad to not run away and instead declare yourself as bankrupt and we'll see from there. This is the same thing that we advised as well.
3. But my dad being my dad did not listen to any ( one of his trait that has gotten us into this mess ) of us and made his mind to run away. Us being dependent ( I was in my 4th sem of BSc(IT) ) on him could not do anything and had to do whatever he said.
4. Dad and mom went to other state while me and my brother changed our location, I stopped going college, but my brother continued to go.
5. All the jewellers rightfully lodged complaint against my dad, and by tracking my brother to his college, police were able to get a hold of my dad and arrested him in other state and brought him back.
6. Multiple FIRs were filed against him, my mom and brother took everything in their hands and visited all the police stations, lawyers, etc to get a bail. I did not indulge as I had to prepare for my final exams for that sem.
7. After a lot of settlement ( mom had to give all her jewelleries for it ), in about a month or two dad got a bail.
8. Now my dad is the worst kind of person you can't even think of, he use to always blackmail my mom for money or jewellery by saying things like "I will commit suicide if you don't give it to me, vidhwa hojayegi tu", "tere baap ne diya hai kya yeh sab". 
9. Immediately after getting out of the jail he was like "I have to start business again". And what he did was he took mortgage loan against our only house, and got around 70L with monthly EMI of 1L. At that time we advised him to use only 30-40L for business and keep the rest in case of emergency, but as always he didn't listen to us.
10. Now all these jewellers who filed complain, were not the type to easily leave a thief. And when they saw that dad again started business in the same place they knew he has money and they started putting pressure on dad for more money. My dad being a coward that he always wants to be tension free, paid a huge sum to a lot of them out of that 70L to shut them. Finally he was left with around 30-40L.
11. We were under the impression that he was actually doing business and able to generate income.
12. Things were slowly progressing in the same pace, I completed my degree, got a low paying job but it was okay for me at that time.
13. Fast-forward to 2020, covid hit, seeing dad's face everyday we knew something was not right, but we didn't say anything, but back in the mind I knew he was slowly going down the same hill. But I rather focused on working hard and was able to bag a good paying job in the start of 2021.
14. My dad use to always keep all kinds of bills pending for months, so after this job I undertook the responsibility of paying all the utility bills.
15. By the end of 2021 dad started giving us hints that he has ran out of the remaining 30-40L he had, as he again started asking mom and as well as me this time for small small amount of money 5k, 10, 20k, etc. His monthly expense were around 2L, so if there's no income, this amount of 30-40L was bound to run out one day.
16. On dec 2021 me and one of my friend wanted to put a crypto mining rig worth 5L, so we decided to take a loan, that's when I got to know my cibil score is very low and that is because my dad took a loan on my name of 80k and defaulted on it. As a result I decided to pay out the loan so that we can get the 5L loan and we succeeded in it.
17. Few months passed by and dad finally confessed that he had ran out of 70L, and not just that without letting us know he also took a top up of 30L during covid and he has also ran out of that 30L, so overall he was in debt of 1cr with monthly EMI of 1.7L and 0 income. I was totally convinced by this time that my dad is someone who has 0 knowledge to run a business.
18. After discussing alot we decided that we have no other choice but to sell the house. 
19. Since dad started defaulting the recovery guys started visiting the house.
20. Worrying that our house might go into auction any day. I, mom and bro decided to move out of the house and stay on a rented apartment instead. By this time I got good appraisal because of which I was able to manage all the expenses related to moving to the new apartment, the deposit amount as well as the rent.
21. When I conveyed this to dad, his reply was "instead of moving out, give me 15L and I'll fix everything", we simply ignored and moved.
22. By this time Mom and bro started hating dad so much that they did not want dad to come with us in this new apartment. But only because of me, because of the small soft corner I still had for him and for the sake of humanity I took him with us and boy it was a wrong decision.
23. In this new house we were expecting a peaceful life at least. Because back at our home dad would always say "This is my house, I can do whatever I want, if I don't pay EMI then you guys will face consequences, so give me money".
24. In a month or two dad was able to rent out our house with a high deposit, he got 30L as the deposit, out of which 15L he paid to someone from whom he lend money for paying the EMIs, as well as there were some pending cases on the house, and for settlement he had to give another 7L, so he was left with 8L, and you might have guessed it by now, he ran out of the 8L as well around 2023 sept\~oct. So total debt he has on him is 1.3cr by now.
25. All these time he tried to sell the house but couldn't find any buyer for a fair price.
26. Since last December he has started harassing me and my brother for money to pay his EMI, he will constantly call us and say "I am your father, padaya hai likhaya hai, won't you help me in these hard times", "I will commit suicide, help me", "You guys never supported me", etc and much more.
27. Few times I had to give him money just so that he can shut up and I can focus on work, by now I've given him around 1.8L total in last 3 months. But every month he will come again and start this drama.
28. Now I am a kind of person who tries to stay as much away as possible from such drama and focus only on work and earn money, because I have nothing behind me and I have to build everything from scratch, in the middle of this whenever my dad starts poking It completely ruins my mood and I am unable to focus on work.
29. At 26 I am handling each and every expense of my household and on top of that dad wants me to give him money for all his bullshit decisions.
30. Not just this, he will make other family friends or his friends to call us and tell us to support him and give him money.
31. He never told us what he his doing, he never followed our advice, he never thought about what will happen in future even when my mom would tell him to and now when the time has come to face the consequences he wants us to help him.
32. In similar way he emotionally blackmailed my brother and just to come out of guilt he gave him 17k which is a very big amount for him based on his earnings. Dad said he will return it in 3 days, 3 days passed and nothing.
33. Now by brother started asking him for the money and he again started his drama "I am your dad, I gave money for your engineering, and now you want this small amount 17k back from me ", "If I go to jail then you will see what happens to you all". Basically he was blackmailing as well as threatening. This lead to a huge fight between my brother and dad over phone.
34. And just before that he made a 3rd person call me and tell me that the recovery agents went to his office and made a ruckus and that my dad is going to commit suicide, so help him. I did not respond.
35. My dad also fraudulently added my brother as co-applicant for the mortgage loan which my brother had no idea of until he checked his cibil score which was significantly down due to non repayment of EMI.
36. By now I have totally started hating my dad and cannot stand him in this house, all of us now wants to evict him out of this house because of all the negativity he is bringing in our life along with 8 years of difficult life. He doesn't value what he is getting right now inspite of all the things he has done and still expects us to help him.
37. I might've not been able to explain his true nature and mindset, but I am willing to explain and respond to questions.

GPT generated 
TL;DR: In 2016, Dad confessed to a massive debt, chose to run away despite advice to declare bankruptcy. He continued his reckless financial behavior, taking loans and putting the family in more debt. Despite warnings, he squandered money, emotionally blackmailed his family, and misled them about his financial situation. His actions led to constant stress, fights, and threats, culminating in a desire from the family to evict him due to his negative impact on their lives.

 
I want you guys to tell me what can he do if we evict him and what else can we do here in this case to lead a peaceful life ?