SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: QueueNet MLM Scam
DATE: 2024-04-06
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1bwr7rl/queuenet_mlm_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Good evening Bengaluru.
I wanted to share an incident which happened with me today. I was approached in WhatsApp by a long lost friend last week and he started off saying there is a business opportunity to make money by working part time. I thought it was the regular review task scam but boy was I wrong.

There were a few back and forth calls between me and a "senior" member. They seemed determined to ask for an in person meet and did not reveal anything about the opportunity until I reached there. 

I went to a place in btm layout to meet the team. And so began the two hour presentation. It was full of testimonials of people having Mercedes, going to international trips for meetups, some miraculous healing products and time sharing hotels . As soon as I heard the words d2c and distributor cum customer, i understood this was an mlm scam. So basically how it works is you get a commission from the sale you make by introducing another member and you also make a commission from people who they coerce to join. This has many names like ponzi scheme, mlm, affilate marketing,d2c, pyramid scheme etc. it also features in the popular tv show , the office. This seems to have been prevalent in Kerala and now has proped its head in namma Bengaluru . I do not want anybody to fall for this. Please let everybody in your friends circle know.

The punchline was for a mere 3.5 lakh you can become your own boss and you don't ever have to go to an office again.

There have been instances where people take loan and join this and get stuck in a debt trap. Please do not. As soon as you hear anything similar to this ,run. They will try and sweet talk you to joining please do not. I might get downvoted but this has to be said. Its apparently gaining traction in engineering colleges where students are very impressionable. Please intervene and save them. They Target mainly middle class people who are looking to make a quick buck. 

Have you had a similar encounter?
Would love to hear your stories.

TLDR: I was too smart to get roped in to an MLM scheme.