SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I got scammed for INR 32097 ie approx US $400 - india - housing.com - real estate/property scam
DATE: 2024-09-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1f9rt4j/i_got_scammed_for_inr_32097_ie_approx_us_400/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have been scammed for ₹32097 for the Mahindra Vivante property in Andheri, Mumbai, listed by Aakash Hegde on housing.com. (I reported the property, of course, and it's gone now. But that happened)

 
The property seemed too good to be true (₹12000/mo rent for 1BHK and for those in Mumbai, they know it's impossible.) But, being a new guy in the city, excited to get my own first flat, I jumped the gun and fell for it.

The seller first asked for ₹4000 as a visiting booking token, which I paid. (I had done this before for a PG in the name of advance booking. He made it sound similar, so I did that.) I did ask for his identity proofs, PAN and Aadhar, which he shared with me. It was only after getting these documents that I made the first payment.

Asking for visiting money is the first red flag but I was too excited for that pretty flat. (yeah I should've known better, I know)

Then, after the payment, he said I'll receive a verification call. I received that call from someone from his team, pretending to be an associate manager of some sort (second red flag, why tf would an associate mgr call me???) to verify the amount I paid and send me a receipt, etc. 

Then, over the call, he said I needed to pay a month's rent to complete the booking in his system and that he'd send that amount back immediately to me. So, that demanded another 8099. (and I paid). After paying this, he said that the amount was supposed to be paid in 2 parts, 8000 and 99, so that the system would take it. I argued a bit but finally foolishly paid that amount.

But, even after this, he said that his system wouldn't take the payment cause I paid in two bits, once incorrect, once correct, so I needed to pay the whole amount again (12099). 

I had a feeling by then that this was a scam, but I wanted the original money back. So, I paid again. He kept saying he'd refund me immediately, and I kept falling for that. So, after this payment, he again said this needs to be in two parts - 12000 and 99. At this point, I returned to the reality that this was a SCAM, and I had fallen for it.

Throughout, each call was on recoding because I had a gut feeling, but I just chose to ignore it. Now, I guess it's too late for me to do anything (unless some whitehat hacker or cybercrime comes to my rescue)

But, for what it's worth, I'm putting my story out here for everyone else, excited and new to the big world like me, looking for accommodation. NEVER pay any money upfront unless you're at that place in person, in front of the other individual. Guess UPI payments are a curse as well - making txns so easy and effortless that you don't even bother checking too much.

I completed all these transactions and didn't get any refund from him or his team. He pretended to be an actual owner and sent me receipts and everything over email and property pictures over WhatsApp. 

Stay safe, stay aware and please never give in to your emotions and excitement. Think calmly and follow your gut feeling, please.

Do let me know if anyone has a legal way I can get my money back or do something about this.

Cheers!