SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How to get rid of a tech support scam?
DATE: 2023-03-15
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/11rhfp3/how_to_get_rid_of_a_tech_support_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Around a year or months ago, I've fallen for a tech support scam.

Before anyone flames me in the comments, I was unaware that tech support scams existed, and I was stupid enough to believe him.

It all started in a scary pop-up that looked exactly like it was from Microsoft. I jumped a bit because it was unexpected and, I was in the dark. I immediately called the number it had on the pop-up.

The scammer asked me to pay $500 and to download TeamViewer and there was another thing, but I forgot. And coming from the accent, I suppose he was Indian and living somewhere in India, or recently moved away from India. He made me call him, at least 2x, before I realize it was a scam.

After realizing it was a scam, I deleted TeamViewer and pretended that didn't happen. A few weeks later, they remotely controlled my computer and I decided to mess with them. I moved the cursor in the opposite direction of what they were trying to click. I guess it annoyed him? Because he stopped moving my cursor.

After that, I got rid of annoying pop-ups and people remotely controlling my computer from the control panel (I learned this from a blog, btw). And recently, they came back. And I think it's a different one. Despite getting rid of pop-ups, every time I restart and open my stuff up, they appear again. I had to delete the windows before they do anything ghetto with my stuff. For example, making the screen gray, and getting rid of my taskbar. And it's Supremo now. They even put their number in my hidden icons! Plus, it's a different number, but it could've been faked. From the first digits of their number, I could trace it back to a European country. And that's all the info I have on them. It's not even good info because the number could've been faked, and they are probably from somewhere else.

I just really want to get rid of them because they are annoying the fuck out of me.

&amp;#x200B;

Edit: I'm going to call the cops