SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Is my lawyer colluding (A high profile court case involving corruption, long post kindly help)?[urgent]
DATE: 2020-10-12
SCORE: 113
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/j9ca1v/is_my_lawyer_colluding_a_high_profile_court_case/

--- POST TEXT ---

So My dad is a government employee and he tried exposing corruption of senior officials but he was mentally harassed (he holds quite a good post) and transferred twice ((we have solid evidence that the senior official was involved with the transfer (RTI)) When he was transferred for the first time, We went to CAT . The transfer was put aside in 2 hearings. But after that the same seniors filed fake

fake misbehaviour charges filed against him and then they called an enquiry officer and he conducted the enquiry without informing my dad and so yeah he fixed charges and my dad gets a show cause notice out of the blue one day and it was at that day he got to know that there were charges against him. We replied (this was in 2018 end) and then he was transferred again ( Mind you , we got murder threats all along and he used to be chased my some cars when he used to leave his office, informed police and as expected noting happened) He also met the CEO of the government body and he assured that he would not transfer him again and agreed with the valid points my dad raised but he also asked him to not to get into his senior's way and he was transferred againin july , we went to high court this time , the case was dropped due to lawyers error also the judge said something else in court and something else was written in order, we assume it was our lawyers fault. The judge insulted the lawyer . So after that we got another death threat and this time we have name and everything of the person involved previous calls were done via internet . ALso my dad complained in CVC and they accepted his complaint and initiated an enquiry. This year in FEB out of the blue the misbehaviour charges appeared again ,mind you we submitted our STRONG reply to the previous show cause notice in 2018 november . My dad's ACR has been absoultely wrecked , same with his service book , He tried meeting with the New CEO but he was refused an appointment for 4 months and he got to make a call to him only after he told CEO's PA that he will try to meet secretary and other senior officials. he told in clear words "don't mess with seniors" and that everyone is keeping an eye on his court case , so yeah the case was dropped in single bench, we went to double bench , it was accepted there, the response from the judges has been very positive so far, they put an halt to all the disciplinary proceedings against my dad, but the bench has changed and we don't know what the new judges think, in the last hearing the lawyer from the other side challenged the stay the previous judge gave and our lawyer was silent the whole time , even the judge was kinda hostile towards our lawyer, he was scolding him for mic related issues when the problem was with someone else (it's an online hearing) So now our lawyer says that the judge has a beef with him

 and things aren't working as good online so he would try to get the dates postponed , also he's kinda ill these days so he will ask his colleague to be present on behalf of him so as to get the court case postponed a bit . Is this even a thing? The judge asked the other lawyer to file another affadavit but our lawyer refused to file a rejoinder , he says all the points are already in the main thing he filed in the starting . Please help. My dad isn't rich , we can't pay a lot , he's honest and idk why did he even bothered to complaint against his seniors , he's stressed all the time. Meanwhile the corrupt people are getting promoted. He was legally obliged to put forward his points to the CEO via a personal meeting (this is related to the fake misbehaviour charges) even that was refused , and he had to meet the ED of the department who is a well known friend of the people who are involved in this scam . We have a recording of the video conferencing , the ED said " so what are your points" and we replied and then he said OK and then initiated "punishment" we got a stay from high court regarding this punishment but idk what will happen . There are very powerful people with money involved . Please advice. Also is there anything we can do regarding the misbehaviour complaint? it has been cold for over a year and came back to life only after we went to court again. I tried reading some laws on my own but idk is there something we can do ? the time delay is quite a lot isnt it? please help. 

The next hearing is tomorrow.