SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Scam by Medvarsity online ltd. and Techfino capital!
DATE: 2024-08-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1f1m1cx/scam_by_medvarsity_online_ltd_and_techfino_capital/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello! I took medical courses online from Medvarsity Online ltd. The course included online as well as offline hand-on program at Apollo hospitals for 3months. 
They made me take the course through EMI saying it would be overall cheaper than doing one time payment. They gave me emi through techfino, once the payment was done medvarsity was not giving any response regarding offline course and the quality of online course made me realise its all a scam. The course is not recognised by govt medical body or by Royal college England like they said. They can't even provide transcript for taking courses.
After realising its scam and they were not replying regarding offline course I was repeatedly sending messages regarding cancellation but no one was responding moreover the customer care guy said I have to do the course even if I dont want to. The bank was not letting me close the loan as they said they have no association with medvarsity and I have to pay emi even if I don't do the course. I told them how can I pay for a course Im not doing or won't get anything in return and they aren't listening and still asking me to pay.I have been scammed. They are running really fraud services.
There are many students who got scammed like me. 
Recently I came across a video on youtube calling out Techfino capital pvt ltd. He had similar issue and on understanding its a scam closed his account,blocked the calls/messages from bank and was advising not to pay anything to them. I thought I got scammed by Medvarsity but I'm shocked bank is fraud too.Is that possible?
I get messages from spam number posing as recovery agents.But nothing has happened soo far. 
Please some one advice me how to proceed.
The courses from medvarsity are fraud and I have been reading on quora similar experiences as mine.