SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Facebook meets the tech support scams
DATE: 2024-10-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gebeks/facebook_meets_the_tech_support_scams/

--- POST TEXT ---

During most of this month, and some of the previous, I was reliably getting Facebook paid ads that were clearly gateways to tech support scams. Generally, the 'sponsored' post was something innocuous, like a listcicle, or a post about the royal family or something completely non controversial--not actually ads. 

Clicking on them took you to a page of lightened out porn images, with "DO YOU WANT TO CLOSE THIS PAGE" superimposed; sometimes they first went to a page ostensibly about black achievements instead of, or before, x the porn page. Clicking yes then took you to the old "Your computer is now locked" screen, complete with verbal warnings not to reboot or close the page, and sirens. And, of course, a phone number to call. Calling it would go to a call center presumably in India, but maybe Pakistan.

 I never called, having seen this scam before, just closed my browser and/or rebooted, which of course caused no harm. 

As I started to get more than one or two of these, I clicked "why am I seeing this ad" question, and the answer was always that the advertiser was looking for women 50 or over. (Yes, I AM old, thank you.) I began to know which ads were probably the scam ads, and I reported every one to Facebook, as well as, eventually, actually e-mailing Facebook support. I didn't think it would matter, but it seemed worth a try.

 Of course, clicking on them to see if they were the scams had the algorithms sending me more of them. The ads were never removed because they didn't "violate community standards". And that was smart, since the ad itself look innocuous until clicked on. I had a friend report that she got one like that, except that instead of going to the faded porn page, she was taken directly to the screen saying she was locked out (and she believed it. It took me hours to convince her to just reboot and not call the number.) I got one of those too, eventually, and it was noted as having women over 40 as a target audience.

I kept thinking this scam would be publicized as such in the usual places, but I haven't seen it come up anywhere. And for the time being, I seem to have stopped getting them. But I did want to alert people that this was out there.