SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Sona Mohapatra slams Badshah for Tateeree song. First to speak up from the music industry
AUTHOR: Tina Das
DATE: 2026-03-11
URL: https://theprint.in/entertainment/sona-mohapatra-badshah-tateeree-music-industry/2876149/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Singer Sona Mohapatra
slammed
Bollywood rapper Badshah Wednesday
for
‘flexing masculinity’ and ‘objectifying women’
in his song
Tateeree
.
Questioning the rapper’s creativity, Mohapatra
became the only
artist
from the music industry to have
openly criticised
the song
.
“Not the first time we’ve seen this template. A man puffing up his chest, flexing masculinity, objectifying women, and projecting himself as some irresistible hero, while women exist merely to drool around him. ‘Tu mujhpe marti hai, mujhpe jaan chidakti hai’ type of flights of rubbish swag. This isn’t creativity. It’s the laziest trope in pop culture,” wrote the singer in an
Instagram post
on Wednesday.
Show Full Article
Referring to
Badshah’s apology video,
Mohapatra’s post
added that it does not offset his lack of responsibility as an artist.
“Haryana already battles some of the country’s worst gender ratios, violence against women and honour killings. Cultural influence carries responsibility? Artists shape imagination. You can challenge misogyny or profit from it. BADSHAH & this lot, do better,” read her post.
LoC against Badshah
Comments on Mohapatra’s post lauded the singer for speaking out
on
the matter.
“This is why you’re such an inspiration. With a great name comes great responsibility–you’ve aced it always,” wrote singer Paushali Sahu
in the comment section
.
Badshah’s song, which draws
inspiration
from a popular Haryanvi folk number,
says,
“Aya Badshah doli chadhane, in sabki ghodi banane” (Badshah has come to get all these girls married and make mares out of them). The song’s video depicts young girls wearing school uniforms throwing away their school bags and appearing to run away from studies.
This has prompted a series of complaints and an FIR against the rapper, whose real name is Aditya Prateek Singh.
Haryana Police registered an FIR
on 6 March
based on a complaint lodged by a Panchkula resident, alleging the use of objectionable lyrics and visuals in the rapper’s recently released music video.
He has been booked under section 296 (obscene acts and songs) and section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita.
Additionally, sections 3 and 4 (indecent representation of women) of the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986, have also been invoked in this matter.
The police have
also issued a Look Out Circular against Badshah to prevent him from leaving the country. The Haryana State Commission for Women also
issued a
summons to the rapper.
Also read:
FIRs, summons and an apology video — Why Badshah’s song ‘Tateeree’ is making Haryanvis angry
Vishal Dadlani extends support
On 7 March, Badshah posted an
apology video
on his social media platform. “I am seeing that the lyrics and the visual representation in my new song ‘Tateeree’ have caused a lot of people, especially from Haryana, hurt. Firstly, I want to say that I am from Haryana. Those who know me will vouch for the fact that my entire identity rests on it,” said Badshah.
The video has more than 12 million views.
Meanwhile, s
inger Vishal Dadlani extended his support to Badshah and commented, “You’re a good man, my brother. We all know your heart is always in the right place.”
(Edited by Saptak Datta)