SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How do Social Security Scammers know that you've used your SSN Number?
DATE: 2021-01-08
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/kspyk5/how_do_social_security_scammers_know_that_youve/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday was a pretty normal day for me. All was going well and usual and later that day I decided to go to buy a vehicle at a car dealership. As we all know, you're required to give your social security number when financing the vehicle. I did and did not think much of it until later that day when something happened.

That same day I got a call from my county's administration center. I was a bit skeptical, so I checked the administration's number online and, alas, the number that was calling me was a spoofed number. I did not pick up the number, so I'm not sure who the person was on the other side, but things only got more fishy today.

From this morning to now, I have gotten 4 separate social security scam calls, and it's obvious that they are scams. The Social Security Administration will not call you like this and will certainly not call you with your local area code. The numbers were spoofed and likely from overseas Indian scam call centers. I called the numbers on an unrelated Text-Now number, and I knew my theory was correct when I heard a thick Indian accent on the other side and an obviously fake Anglo-Saxon name.

I usually don't think much of these calls, but the timing was very odd this time. I just used my SSN and I just happened to get these social security scam calls afterwards. This is odd to me. I usually get calls like these once a month, but I've never gotten 5 of them in short succession of one another. This leads me to believe the scammers knew that I used my SSN. I thought this strange, until I remembered this happened to me two times earlier this year!

Earlier this year I used my SSN to open a bank account, and I remember that shortly after I got social security scam calls. I got annoyed but didn't connect the dots. Moreover, my relative also used their SSN this year for financial reasons, and then they got a call from another group of overseas scammers. They almost fell for the scam once they got their card, but good thing their judgement got to the best of them.

Once might be a coincidence, but three times is certainly a pattern. Can anybody explain how these scammers know about this? How do they get information that we've recently used our SSN? I am not savvy at all about this stuff so I have no idea. Any speculation might be helpful so that I can change my practices in the future.

Thanks,