SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Horrible NoBroker experience
DATE: 2023-12-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/18ixvjp/horrible_nobroker_experience/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had purchased a MoneyBack plan from NoBroker after they constantly called me over the phone and convinced me that I would be able to find a house through them or I’d get my money back.

I finally bought the plan (which was around Rs. 7000) and even got a relationship manager assigned to me, but then I found out I couldn’t use their premium features because my account still wasn’t verified. I contacted their customer care and they said they were facing a technical issue of some sort. Since I needed to find an apartment ASAP, I went the broker way and acquired a flat. 

Subsequently, I requested for a refund from NoBroker since my plan didn’t even get activated after I paid them the whole amount, and they kept stalling me by saying they were still facing technical issues.

Eventually, I posted a thread on my Twitter documenting the entire experience and demanded a full refund to which they kept stalling me even more like before… until I told them I had registered a case for fraud against NoBroker.

Immediately after that they activated my plan and a representative from NoBroker called me over the phone the next day to say that my plan has been active and in use and that they can’t cancel my plan unless I send them the rental agreement of my new apartment that I found through external sources (as per their T&amp;C, apparently).

I refused to do so because I had been demanding my refund way before my plan even got activated and argued with them until they agreed to give my full refund. 

The representative told me they’d approve my refund only if I took my Twitter thread down. I only agreed to do it if they sent me an email stating that NoBroker has initiated my refund. Once I got the email, I took my thread down. In fact, they made sure that every trace of the incident was deleted from my profile and even emailed me the links to my own posts about the issue that I didn’t delete. Furthermore, they drafted a tweet for me and told me to post that instead which stated that NoBroker acknowledged my issue and had resolved it. They said my refund would only get approved once all my complaints regarding the issue were deleted from my profile. 

I finally got my money back after almost a 1-week ordeal, but that doesn’t invalidate this experience provoked by their low-quality app interface and their horrible customer service. 

I urge everyone to do their research before they opt for any of their services. There are enough and more Reddit posts and Twitter threads documenting various negative experiences.