SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: how can an indian mom learn about money management and finance? anything on youtube and somewhere she can understand?
DATE: 2023-09-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/16li9si/how_can_an_indian_mom_learn_about_money/

--- POST TEXT ---

my father was the head of the family in traditional sense. my mother did not learn to manage and invest money. she would keep her salary in account and ran household on father's pocket money. now my father has deceased earlier than we expected. 

it was the time i myself started learning about money - 

1. dont keep money in cash at home 
2. dont let salary sit in your account idle 
3. compound interest is the magic trick 

my mother is underconfident in her money management and rightly so. she is also afraid of scam/losses in the name of investment. i had to read a lot before i could convince myself and her that investing in mutual funds will not make us bankrupt. 

on youtube there are business gurus that teach in hindi but they seem to be very market oriented 

my mother is science graduate so no prior knowledge in finance unlike my father who was bcom graduate 

is there any way she can learn to manage daily expenses, run household on a budget, invest for future security and attain mental peace? 

she has some very irrational philosophies like -

1. all women she knows are doing kitty, going to parlour, have personal debit cards even if they are housewives, indulge in their self care 
2. everyone in the world is travelling, eating out, enjoying so much while she has to sit at home as a housekeeper
3. everyone around us has unlimited money otherwise how are they so relaxed? 
4. my father worked double jobs. while we respect his story, it seems that his colleagues etc. have made equivalent money from investing in mutual funds and bonds with less effort. perhaps i am falling for spotlight effect or selection bias. 
5. on one hand she is grieving and on other hand she is confused how other people around us or relatives make money from salary jobs? 

her goals are - 

1. daily expenses so i suggested 'liquid funds' where she can withdraw money whenever she wants
2. her happiness and mental peace 

please suggest something. thank you very much. any youtube playlist or books that teach the real thing, considering she is not very fond of reading books.