SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Civil contractor (Livspace Partner) did a pathetic job, messed up our house, and is now threatening us through the police to make full payment.
DATE: 2024-01-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/18y8mlf/civil_contractor_livspace_partner_did_a_pathetic/

--- POST TEXT ---

We undertook a small remodeling project for our house in September last year. We decided to go to Livspace since we had heard good things about their work online and also seen some examples in real life.

Now after the Livspace team came to our place and asked us what we wanted to get done, they informed us that they will only undertake the furniture part of the project (the kitchen) and for the civil work they gave us the contact of one of their official civil work partners. We assumed this person must be professional since a company like Livspace must have standards to give out their official partnership.

Now the civil work started in the first week of October. He initially told us the work will definitely not take more than 15 days since it is simple. There was demolition of a wall, reconstruction, some flooring, tiling and painting of the whole house. We had a family wedding in the end of November but we expected all this to get over in by the end of October itself.

Long story short neither did he stick to the timeline nor did he do any appreciable work. In the last week of November right before the wedding preps were starting, after 100's of calls and us screaming at him on call 4 times a week, the project was finally "completed". 

The demolition was done extremely shabbily with him clogging up the house with dust for 15 days. It was supposed to be completed in 4 days for context. The reconstructed wall has a slope of at least 3 - 4 inches from top to bottom. He kept assuring us that it will be fixed during painting but on that day the painter came and just painted over the same wall and he just ignored us when we asked him what is going on. The flooring is absolutely pathetic. It is not level anywhere and there is a 10 sq. ft. section where there are more 5 - 6 pieces of granite. Tiling was also pathetic and the painting is so horrible. For the premium we paid, there are patches of white everywhere around the house. 

Now for electric and plumbing work there were a couple of things that his technicians literally did not know how to get done. We had to get our own owns from outside and spend around 10k to get them done ourselves. Another point to note is he barely visited the site and checked upon the work 4 or 5 times in the 2 months.

We made all the payments prior to the last one promptly with zero delays. But we withheld the last one because of all these issues. Now we called him home finally, showed him all the pathetic work and told him we won't be paying the full amount considering we have already spent 10k for his own work he wasn't capable of doing. He did not own up to even a single mistake and in fact was arrogant telling all the work is perfectly done. If you want more go get it done yourself, not my problem. When we told him about the payment he told he won't accept anything less. When we refused he went "I know how to get money out of you" and left.

Now 2 weeks later, my father gets a call from someone claiming to be inspector of our area's police station and they tell him they have received a complaint that my father has cheated someone a particular amount of money (kannada : mosa maadidira). We attempted to locate the contractor's company but found no address on maps. The initial quotation, poorly created on Excel, was filled with typos.

Can the contractor file a case of criminal fraud against us? Are there government-set standards for civil work that we can use to objectively highlight the poor quality of work? We are demanding a discount of 15k on the remaining payment of 60k, considering the additional 10k we spent on the work he wasn't capable of doing and 5k for the time lost and the substandard workmanship. Many family members and even those in the interior work field advised us not to pay a single paisa due to the poor quality of work.

Any advice from those who have experienced a similar situation would be greatly appreciated.