SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got scammed for land
DATE: 2024-04-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bulfk8/got_scammed_for_land/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am from Goa. A few years ago, a couple of friends and myself were introduced to a piece of land for sale by a very close colleague. We were shown the land and all accompanying documents. Everything seemed legit. Our colleague's cousin was in charge of the land bookings. We paid him ₹50,000 via GPay (with proper payment notes) for booking plots. After that an Undertaking was created for the said land and we paid ₹3,00,000 to start all the formalities. This amount plus the booking amount was mentioned in the Undertaking. In the Undertaking, it was also stated that if the sale deed was not executed within 2 months, the full amount would be refunded without deductions.

However, it has been now 3 years, and nothing has progressed. The so-called developer of the land kept giving excuses that the SANAD was in progress or sale deeds would be done soon, problems with SANAD, etc. He even asked for an additional ₹3,00,000 to help speed up the process which unfortunately we paid.

We had asked for refunds almost 1 year ago and he kept giving excuses that he would give in the next week, next month, that sale deeds are being executed and he will get money to refund us. He gave us ₹25,000 in between and even deposited cheques of some larger amounts which eventually bounced.

We next went to the police and the police said they couldn't do anything but call him and ask him to settle. He told the police he couldn't come to the station as he was out of state but told them he would pay us soon. After that, he started demanding a cancellation letter to process the refunds with the explanation that he didn't trust us. He says we may still ask for the plots after he refunds the money. We refused to give him a cancellation letter but instead gave him a refund intimation letter. He said he had to protect himself after we went to the police.

One of our colleagues even put a cheque bounce case against him which has been running for 6 months but he never shows up to court.

Another colleague even went to his house and demanded a cheque, which eventually bounced. After that, he threatened that colleague with police action stating harassment.

Someone suggested we put a combined fraud case against him but said there is no guarantee that we will get our money back.

During this whole saga, we came to know that he is a famous scammer who is known for doing such scams and has multiple cases against him. We didn't do any due diligence from our side as we trusted our colleague. This scammer has no remorse for what he has done and keeps making false promises.

The colleague who introduced us to the land, says he had no idea about this scammer and that he is well-connected so we have to be careful. Plus his cousin is no longer taking our calls.

We still hope to get our money back one day as for most of us it was part of our life savings.

Is there anything we can do? Please advise.