SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My experience with an Indian Psychic
DATE: 2021-03-07
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/lzmkgz/my_experience_with_an_indian_psychic/

--- POST TEXT ---

Around 3 years ago my father had visited a psychic who was also a master occult practitioner. My father had been collecting money to buy a Car, but for some reason he was unable to do the same. As soon as the money was enough, one or other financial problems came up. The psychic told him that he should not worry and that 'Rakesh' would give the car to him. The problem was, my father did not know about anyone by that name.

Six months after this event, when my father was taking the delivery of his newly purchased vehicle, the man handing him over the keys introduced himself as 'Rakesh'.

My father refered him to one of his friends, whose wife had been displaying signs of capgras delusional. At times she would start screaming that members of his family had been replaced with impsosters. Or that their car had been replaced with a scooter, although they never owned a car in the very first place. Finally, she was brought to the psychic and made to sit in front of him. The psychic stared into her eyes for 5 minutes and her whole demeanor changed.

She started crying profusely and screamed in a manly voice," Forgive me brother, I was just playing with her!" I'll leave her, please don't hurt me". Let's just say that was the last we heard of her delusions.

In another instance, one of my friends had been experiencing paranormal activities in his house. Doors would open and close by themselves, books would fly off the shelves. The whole utensil set would start shaking crazily by itself in the middle of the night. He refered the psychic who told him that their was a certain nail hammered into one the walls in his house. The nail should be carefully extracted and brought to him.

None of the family members remembered ever hammering that nail into the wall. The nail was extracted and brought to the psychic. The psychic muttered some mantra and inserted the nail into a ball of lemon.

The next day, one of the friend's distant cousin was found dead with a nail hammered inside his skull. The police investigated but could not find the source of the nail. I have come to understand that it was probably the cousin that had done some black magic on the friend's family. And a ritual, if countered hits the originator with double force.

Finally, one of my closest friends was having trouble convincing his family to marry his long time girlfriend. I clearly told him to behave respectfully with the psychic but he was more interested in testing the psychic's ability. When the psychic asked the girl's name he gave him a fake name. The psychic calmly told him that the ritual cannot be performed with a fake name and that he should stop lying to him. But my friend gave him another fake name.

At this point the psychic got pissed. "So you and the fake name are supposedly soul mates, then so be it!", He thundered. My friend still did not take it seriously and went out of the psychic's house laughing.

To make a long story short, it was the psychic who had the last laugh. His girlfriend broke up with him and hence, no marriage could take place. My friend ended up meeting another girl by the same fake name he had given and ended up marrying her.