SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Mumbai, Maharashtra: Ex-tenant keeps paying electricity bill despite vacating 10 months ago.
DATE: 2023-03-13
SCORE: 116
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/11q4arj/mumbai_maharashtra_extenant_keeps_paying/

--- POST TEXT ---

UPDATE:

Based on some of the responses I got, and the general feeling of unease I had, I texted Chandu stating that since he's not responded to verbal communication stating not to pay bills on a property that's not his, I'm forced to take legal action against him. I had already contacted adani &amp; complained about the matter, so it's on their record. My next step was going to the police to file an NC (I spoke to Mumbai police on Twitter, who were also unsure which segment I can file under but encouraged me to go to the station anyways), so I broke this down to Chandu.

He's been avoiding talking to us for months now, but yesterday at the mention of police he immediately called me, which I didn't answer. I told him clearly, everything has to be in writing so only text/whatsapp/or email. He once again stated it was auto-deducted and he doesn't know how to stop that. He requested for his money back- but I told to contact the financial app he used for payment, and Adani since the money hasn't landed in mine or Reshmi's bank account. 

He sent me screenshots of switching off auto pay on his Paytm (yes, he suddenly understood how to do that).

My mum's unsure about filing a police complaint now, so I've switched off digital payments on the meter number, and paid up for the next 6 months in advance at adani's bill collection center.

Thanks for your help! Greatly appreciated &lt;3

&amp;#x200B;

\---------------------

This is a weird one. My mom has a small rental property in Mumbai, which is currently occupied by tenant Reshmi (fake name y'all)

Ex-tenant who vacated 10 months ago, Chandu, still keeps paying the electricity bill online for the property.

My mother has asked him to stop paying, and Reshmi has asked him to stop. He had no obligation to pay the bill, we've been paying on time AND he left 10 months ago!

What legal recourse can I take? I've contacted Adani electricity and they honestly can't understand.