SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Increasing Scams in Bangalore - Is It Just Me?
DATE: 2024-10-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1fzzmrc/increasing_scams_in_bangalore_is_it_just_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today morning i thought my problems solved themselves when some people requesting old clothes and books for donation caught my sight opposite my house, I've been meaning to donate a lot of old clothes and some books to charity (apparently goonj was the better option after research but I've been procrastinating since its so far away and porter costs a pretty penny). Well i called these guys inside and I asked them a few questions( theyre called Cordial Foundation if my memory serves me right) they wrapped it up in sarees and dhupattas, and they took some books and put it in an auto, I had to go out so I just left in the middle and asked someone from the family to oversee them while they finished. Later, I discovered mixed reviews about them online, many of which were suspiciously one-off reviews, making me feel like I might have been scammed because some did call ut a scam. It’s upsetting to think that my donations could be misused, luckily nothing monetary.

Later in the day, another man approached me outside Third Wave on New Bel Road, asking for help with a dubious story involving an MLA sending an ambulance—clearly a scam, seems wild that he noticed me from outside and asked the waiter to call me particularly to tell me this bs.On top of that, I received a call from someone who wouldn’t stop introducing himself, even after I told him it was a wrong number, I've seen in some places they try to make you think youre familiar to them and start a scam?

Experiencing so many suspicious and weird interactions in one day made me wonder if this is a big city issue or just Bangalore. It feels like there’s an increase in scams everywhere, and I’m left feeling like I can't trust anyone, dont get me started on relatives lol. I’d love to hear if anyone else has had similar experiences or if there’s anything we can do to combat this trend.

TL;DR: I’ve recently experienced multiple suspicious encounters in Bangalore, including a questionable donation request from a group claiming to be the Cordial Foundation and two other weird interactions in one day. It feels like scams are on the rise, leaving me wondering if this is a BLR thing. Has anyone else faced similar situations, and what can we do about it?