SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My experience with an elaborate scam.
DATE: 2024-09-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1fhpgxm/my_experience_with_an_elaborate_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

This happened to my mother in law (78). 

The set up: MIL is contacted via phone by someone claiming to be from the government Cyber Security Agency. The scammer provided a badge number and apparently sounded official, however had a British accent with a touch of Indian as well. She was told her identity was stolen and bank accounts had been compromised. In order to prove to the FDIC that the money taken was hers, she would need to transfer funds from her bank to a new Truist bank account. She said she didn't do online banking, so the scammer had her download an app that allowed him to remote access her computer. 

Once that was done, she was instructed to transfer money from her bank to the new Truist account. $100,000. She was then told she would need to buy gold, have it shipped to her house, put the gold in a different box, and someone would pick it up and deposit it in her name at an "FDIC vault". Someone did come to her house and took the package.

The only reason my wife and I know about this is that MIL had my wife visit to help her with computer trouble. Wife called me and began to explain what software she was seeing and I immediately told her it was a scam and find what her mother had done thus far.

MIL refused to say what happened to my wife. Says she was told if she spoke about it to anyone it would violate the "privacy act" and would be jailed.

Cut to today. My wife, knowing this seemed really wrong especially the secretiveness,went back to her mom's house and finally got the story as recounted above. Wife called me as she was near panic and at a loss. I told her to call the police, contact the FBI, and the FDIC (not sure if this one was needed). Sheriff showed up, took an extensive statement and is forwarding everything to their CID and an investigator will be in touch tomorrow. Since one of them knows where she lives, my wife will be staying there tomorrow since another package of gold is expected. This is the worrying part, but 911 is on speed dial.

I don't know if the money can be recovered or what will happen. I hope the authorities can do something.