SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: 3 Friends of the same college are facing soo much torture coz of another college mate.
DATE: 2024-10-30
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gf525j/3_friends_of_the_same_college_are_facing_soo_much/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Legal Advisors,

Here goes our story.

Let me introduce the characters.

Guy1, Guy2, Guy3 is Myself, and Guy4-Villian. We are all from the same college. We passed out from the same college, and we are in IT. Guy4 was also in IT.

* A Brief about the Guy4-Villain. He had a very hard upbringing. He struggled all his life. Finally, he became an engineer and was working in a startup. Wherever he went, he gained the trust of multiple people and friends. He is very, very smart. He quit his IT job around October 2023 and rented a homestay in South India and started running it. He and his dad constructed a home in his village around August 2023, and that's when it all started. He started asking for money from all his friends. We all gave some amount in lakhs. Then he didn't return that money fully. We showed him mercy, as he had quit his IT job and was doing something on his own.

* Guy1 - He had given around 27 lakhs till now, for which he has records for only 18 lakhs. remaining amount he has paid to the QR codes, which the Villain has sent and asked Guy1 to pay for. For any repair or anything, Guy1 has paid. The Villain told that he is doing an agricultural farm to residential plot conversion. Its a 2 acre plot worth 80 lakhs. Lets call it "**Project 2 Acre**" So, Guy1 gave money for that "Project 2 Acre." Now, the guy1 came to know that "Project 2 acre" is impossible as the total expenditure may exceed 1.5 crs to convert it into residential plots. Also, he wants to build or purchase a house. So, he wants his money back. He has scolded all kind of bad words for Guy1 and all proof of scoldings are there with Guy1. Total amount Guy1 has paid - 27 lakhs.

* Guy2 - He has given 5 lakhs to Villain for his personal expenses and also during his home warming ceremony. Moreover, villain had some tie ups with some Noida guys and He asked Guy2 to invest there as well. Villain brainwashed and convinced Guy2 to invest in Noida near Jewar airport. Guy2 invested around 20 lakhs and sent that amount to Villain. The Guy2 has not received anything till now as Guy2 was supposed to send 4 lakhs more to complete the registration. Guy2 got suspicious about the opacity of the villain and he asked his money back. Villain has given only 3 lakhs till now and he doesnt answer to the phone calls. If he answers, he scolds Guy2 very badly. All these scoldings are recorded and all the transactions data are also there. Total amount Guy2 has paid - 25 lakhs.

* Guy3 - Thats me.. I had given him a total of 22 lakhs in different instances whenever he asked for help. He too told me about "Project 2 Acre". He told that he needs some more money for the property which he was running as that property started leaking due to heavy rains this year and it was closed to the customers coz of heavy rains. So, he asked me and begged me to fund him. I took a personal loan of rupees 20 lakhs and sent it to him because I knew that everyone's money and the work was stuck. There was no progress. So, in a good intention, I sent him the money. He said to me that he will be making me as a partner with 50-50 partnership. But, till now, no partnership is being done. No partnership deed is done. He told that he will be paying the EMIs but its been 3 installments and I have only paid all three installments. I currently have a RUNNING EMI because of him and my CIBIL score is down 24 points because of him. I have not asked him the money to be returned, as I know what he is gonna do. He will also scold me left and right and he will make sure I suffer with anxiety and uncertainty. Total amount Guy3 has paid - 40 lakhs. (47 lakhs if you add the interest for personal loan also.)

Regarding the "Project 2 Acre" - He has paid the land owner of that 2 acre a sum of 30 lakhs and have spent another 12 lakhs in RTC and bribes and all.

Some more points about him:

1. He was supposed to open that property by September End, but, he has not opened it yet. He has told that he will be opening for Deepavali, but, that also doesnt seem like a reality. He has spent over 30 lakhs for the renovation of this property.
2. He some other loan of Rs. 30 Lakhs from some other bank and he has not paid the previous 3 installments.
3. He is a heavy weed smoker. He has huge ego issues.
4. He doesnt pick up the call and if he picks, then, he scolds or talks some crap which is no use.
5. Also, we have no full clue where and all he has invested our money. He is totally denying to return the money to Guy1 and Guy2. Also, he is not giving any closure for me regarding the partnership.
6. He twists the facts and points as and when he wants. Also, he lies a lot.

So, Guy1, Guy2 and Guy3 didnt come to know in what shithole we got stuck and we only came about his lies and his vile behaviour only after we synced up with each other over a phone call. 

I dont want to take legal actions right now. I wanna give him some more time (Around 1 year) until he starts his property, make some earnings and shows some progress in "Project 2 Acre." 

Currently, Guy1 and Guy2 are planning to go legal and take legal actions. So, what are best ways possible for Guy1 and Guy2 to take legal actions on him. ? Kindly suggest us the future steps. 

TL:DR - 3 Friends of the same college are facing soo much torture coz of another college mate coz he is holding our money and is not transparent of what he had done with our money.