SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Not right to play politics over war: Priyanka Gandhi slams PM Modi
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-30
URL: https://theprint.in/india/not-right-to-play-politics-over-war-priyanka-gandhi-slams-pm-modi/2892063/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 30 (PTI) Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi after he accused the opposition party of making “dangerous” remarks that could put Indians living in the Gulf at risk, and said it is not right to play politics over war.
She also asked what plan does the government have to bring Indians stranded in the Gulf out of harm’s way.
Her remarks came a day after Modi accused the Congress of making “dangerous” remarks that could put Indians living in the Gulf at risk to gain political advantage.
Show Full Article
Asked about the PM’s remarks, Priyanka Gandhi told reporters in the Parliament House complex, “Lives are in danger because bombs are raining from above. What is he doing about that? What is the plan for bringing people out of harm’s way? It is not right to do politics on these things, on war.” “We are one on this and the whole country is united, but we want a solution to the problems that are arising out of the conflict. That is why we are asking for a discussion in Parliament so that a debate takes place and we can also put forward our suggestions and a solution is found,” the Congress general secretary said.
“As this war is continuing, the crises are deepening. Today the gas cylinder has become so expensive that no one is able to buy it. What will happen in future? There will be a shortage of petrol and diesel. So what is the government’s plan to deal with that?” she asked.
The government has said in brief but there should be a discussion so that “we can find solutions unitedly”, Priyanka Gandhi said.
Addressing a gathering in Kerala on Sunday, Modi had said, “At this time, everyone’s attention is on the war going on in West Asia. Our government is continuously working to ensure that its impact on India is minimal.” Highlighting ongoing diplomatic efforts, he said, “Since the beginning of the war, I have been in constant touch with the heads of all these countries. All nations are giving priority to the safety of Indians stranded in the conflict zones.” He said Indian embassies are working round the clock to support citizens abroad.
“To ensure that our brothers and sisters there do not face any hardship, Indian embassies are also working day and night. The protection of Indians’ interests is the top priority of the BJP-NDA government,” he said.
Targeting the Congress in the poll-bound state, from where lakhs of people work in Gulf countries, the prime minister said, “You must also remember the kind of statements the Congress is making on this sensitive issue — they are dangerous.” “Congress wants the lives of nearly one crore Indians living in Gulf countries to be put at risk, so that it can gain political advantage from it,” Modi said. PTI ASK DIV DIV
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.