SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How can I ensure scammers can't hack my bank account on my phone?
DATE: 2023-11-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/17ltzau/how_can_i_ensure_scammers_cant_hack_my_bank/

--- POST TEXT ---

I live in India and the other day I got a phone call from some woman who asked me if I had made a fixed deposit from ICICI Bank. It's what you guys in the US call a CD.

I did make one about a week ago. The relationship manager from ICICI Bank came to my home and did it for me on my phone. I had asked her to show me how to do it so that I could do it myself from now on and wouldn't have to go to the bank to do it.

I told the woman who called that I thought she was a scammer and she hung up. 

My relationship manager confirmed that the call had not come from ICICI Bank. 

My question is, how do these scammers know our every move?

how did she know that I had made the fixed deposit?

And if I had been gullible and told her yes, I made a fixed deposit, what then? what would her next move have been?

 Would she have said there was some problem and asked me to share an OTP or something so that she could get access to my account?

 is this a common scam? If so, how do they operate?

 Is there anything I can do to prevent scammers knowing the transactions I make?

 Now I am worried they can get access to my account on the phone. I can change my PIN regularly but I suspect these people can figure out your PIN and access your account. 

And if they access your account, they can do anything. they can break a fixed deposit and withdraw the money etc.

 so how to protect oneself? 

I login to my account everyday to make sure that nobody else has done any transactions through my account. What more can I do?

 Should I completely stop making fixed deposits through my phone?

Is there any other forum where I should post my question? is there some that gives advice on how to avoid being hacked?

Maybe we should have a forum to talk about all the scams people are trying to pull today and how to avoid them.

Thanks for any advice.