SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Black Ticket Culture in Chennai #leo
DATE: 2023-10-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/178zx6q/black_ticket_culture_in_chennai_leo/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have never been a fan of fdfs. I just want to enjoy a movie. I am also a hardcore vijay and have always went to the theatre to his movie. In fact, I only watch Vijay anna movies in the theatre. Recently, since I decided to take a leave at my work to catch Leo's first day show somewhere. But the theatres still haven't opened bookings and was constantly checking online to book a ticket. When further investigated, it turns out the theatres themselved employ their staff to sell tickets in black! I was like "Whaaaat?", have we learnt nothing, last time I checked I thought black ticket culture in cinemas had ended? I couldn' believe that culture is still there. Kasi Theatre, Vetri theare, Rohini theatre, Kamalatheatre are all in on it. They wantedly sell the ticket themselves in black. I had no option other than getting it in black and now, have decided to watch Leo when it comes in OTT. I might have tried to go on Sunday or Monday shows, but I hate supporting theatres which loot people. I now respect multiplexes like PVR, INOX, now as even though expensive are transparent about prices, honest and respect customers. But such local theatres I mentioned are cheating off middle class like this. 
These are the prices I was offered:

1. Kasi Theatre - Rs. 5000 for 9am show, 3500 - 12am show.
2. Rohini Theatre - Rs. 2500 for any show for 19th and 20th oct
3. Kamala theatre - Rs. 3500 for 8.30 show
4. Vetri theatre - Rs. 5000 for 9am show

Mind it, I have contacted such black ticket agents through my friends and am pretty sure I have spoke with theatre staff I was asking tickets for. So, it might be obvious that the theatres themselves are selling tickets in black.

I love vijay anna but I feel that he should address this since, it is for his face that we middle class are getting looted by these theatres. I have rationally made decision to not to go to theatre for this, but some fans will definetely support such black ticket sales. I also feel lokesh kanagaraj should address this since he also has influence and is actively promoting the film. He said in an interview something like "I respect the middle class and even poor who earn 2000 rupees and sets aside 200 rupees to watch the film." That poor people is also the reason lokesh is such a big director in addition to his talent. That poor class is also the ones giving all his 2000 rupees earnings for one ticket. I also can't help but think that Lokesh won't address this because of angry theare owners who might retaliate and lower his market value. I am sorry lokesh, but I might be wrong but this is how I feel (personal opinion). The solution might be non-transferable ticket sales that everyone should adopt. 
Any other such experience anyone had when buying leo tickets?