SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Anil Ambani pledges cooperation in ED probe in loan fraud case, tells SC he’s ‘not a flight risk’
AUTHOR: Ruchi Bhattar
DATE: 2026-02-19
URL: https://theprint.in/india/anil-ambani-pledges-cooperation-in-ed-probe-in-loan-fraud-case-tells-sc-hes-not-a-flight-risk/2858374/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Businessman Anil Ambani has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court, undertaking that he will not leave the country without prior court permission, and will fully cooperate with the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) ongoing investigation into the alleged bank loan fraud involving companies of his Reliance Group.
The affidavit formally places on record a statement previously made by his counsel Mukul Rohatgi in court that Ambani “will not be leaving the country without the prior permission of this Court”.
Ambani said on oath that he has not left India since July 2025, when the current investigation began, and has “no plan or intention to travel outside India”. Furthermore, if any requirement for his foreign travel arises, he will seek the court’s permission first. By filing this undertaking, he argued it is “evident that I am not a flight risk and have no intention, whatsoever, to evade the process of law”.
Show Full Article
Addressing his involvement in the businesses under scrutiny, Reliance Group chairman and managing director Ambani clarified that his “role in the concerned companies had been that of a Non-Executive Director only”. He further asserted in the document that he “was not involved in the day-to-day management or operational affairs of the said companies”.
The affidavit said that the ED had summoned Ambani to appear on 26 February, 2026. He has undertaken to join the investigation on that date and to “fully cooperate with the authorities”.
An “examination under Section 50, PMLA 2002 is presently being conducted” alongside the Supreme Court proceedings, which allows the ED to issue summons for the examination of witnesses and documents.
Ambani maintained that he has been “fully cooperating with the investigating agencies” and filed this affidavit to demonstrate that his conduct has been “transparent, cooperative”, while the SC continues to oversee the matter.
The 66-year-old stated that the affidavit is intended to “ensure clarity, completeness, and procedural transparency in the judicial record”.
Also Read:
Why the delay? SC raps ED, CBI for slow probe into Anil Ambani group loan fraud case
Previous hearing
On 4 February, when this PIL was last heard in the Court,  the Supreme Court had criticised what it had described as the “unexplained delay” by the Enforcement Directorate in investigating the alleged bank loan fraud of over Rs 40,000 crore by Reliance Group companies.
A bench of Chief Justice Surya Kant, Justices J. Bagchi and V. Pancholi had also rapped the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for registering only a single FIR with respect to the complaints received from various banks. It had further directed the CBI and ED to complete the investigation in a time-bound manner.
The bench had directed the ED to form an SIT and the CBI to file separate FIRs on complaints by each bank.
Rohtagi assured the Supreme Court on the last day of the hearing that Ambani would not leave the country without the permission of the court.
The bench recorded the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s assurance that “all preventive/remedial measures would be taken to ensure that the ongoing investigations are not impeded”.
The case stems from a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed in 2025, arguing that the present investigation by the authorities (ED and CBI) is incomplete, and excludes the role of bank officials and public servants, deliberately, despite having material indicating their complicity. The PIL asked for a court-monitored probe.
(Edited by Sugita Katyal)
Also Read:
‘Intention to cheat’—bank’s case against Reliance Home Finance as CBI raids ex-director Jai Anmol Ambani