SUBREDDIT: r/IndiaInvestments
TITLE: Bitcoin dips a toe into the mainstream
DATE: 2017-11-01
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/IndiaInvestments/comments/7a2s3b/bitcoin_dips_a_toe_into_the_mainstream/

--- POST TEXT ---

https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2017-10-31/cme-bitcoin-futures-give-currency-push-into-mainstream

&gt;The status of bitcoin as a legitimate financial asset may be rising even faster than its price.

&gt;On Tuesday, the CME Group announced that it plans to list bitcoin futures contracts by the end of the year. The development is positive. Right now, if investors want to bet on the price of bitcoin, the only real way to do it is to buy bitcoin. That's not only potentially inflating the price of bitcoin but also making it harder to determine the currency's true value. One expert estimates that nearly a third of the transactions in the currency could just be traders swapping it, making it look more used as a medium of exchange than it truly is.

&gt;Second, bitcoin exchanges have been plagued by hacks. The CME's bitcoin contract will trade and settle, somewhat ironically, in dollars. The virtue of that is traders can bet on the price of bitcoin without the fear of the bitcoins in their accounts being hacked. And the CME trading venue removes counterparty risk as well. That should bring in more traders who are skeptical of the currency and could keep any bubble in check.

&gt;There is a risk, of course, that the opposite could happen. If bullish bitcoin investors flood into the CME's new contracts and push their price up, that could further inflate the value of actual bitcoins. Derivatives have been known to add air to bubbles. See the housing market. The price of bitcoin surged on the CME news.

&gt;But that's no reason for CME to look the other way. Bitcoin is most likely here to stay. Even excluding bitcoin trading, $350 million in transactions have been completed on average each day for the past six months, and that number has been more like $800 million recently. People who transact in bitcoins will want a place to hedge the currency. And bitcoins are going to get traded. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said that it is is looking into it, and other banks could follow. Without the CME, banks like Goldman may create opaque contracts to trade the currency. With the CME, investors will have a much clearer and safer view of bitcoin, just like any other grown-up asset.

***

**Gaining currency bit by bit**

https://www.valueresearchonline.com/story/h2_storyView.asp?str=34532

&gt;What is a currency? Anything that is accepted as both a medium of exchange and a store of value. It could be anything - paper, gold, silver, cowrie shells, etc., have all been used. Even strings of computer code with no physical existence could be acceptable.

&gt;Cryptocurrencies are harder to understand conceptually. Their existence depends on purely mathematical concepts, not on central banks. They take the definition of currency to the logical limit. Bitcoin is 'mined' by solving complicated maths puzzles using computers. Each 'coin' is a string of a cryptic computer code (it can be broken into fractions). The money supply is limited and increases in an exactly predictable mathematical fashion and there is an absolute upper limit to the money supply. There is no central bank control. The 'coinage' is maintained by a peer-to-peer network. The existence of every coin and every transaction ever made is recorded in an open transaction ledger called the blockchain.

&gt;The blockchain is a fantastic concept. It allows two anonymous strangers to conduct a transaction using a bitcoin - a computer code - in a manner which doesn't need a central bank. A blockchain copy can be downloaded by anyone and anyone can help to verify it. Every time a transaction is made, Bitcoin users check the blockchain for some key things. They check if the specific coin exists, if it's in the right place and if it's being being used in two transactions at the same time. Once a large majority of users confirm these details, a transaction is verified and recorded on the blockchain. So, the blockchain is constantly updated. (A technological change has led to a split in the Bitcoin protocol but it has just made transactions quicker.) The blockchain enables privacy. Bitcoins are held in anonymous digital wallets, which could be owned by anyone. So long as the blockchain verifies the transaction, it's fine. So the blockchain and a peer network replaces the central bank.

&gt;This concept of a peer-reviewed ledger has been adapted for many other purposes. Banks use blockchains internally to check for frauds. Art dealers use blockchains to check that a painting is genuine - two copies of the same painting are red-flagged. Fashion houses and whisky distillers use blockchains to prevent faking. Municipal corporations use blockchains to okay payments for public works. For example, a municipal corporation may contract with a civil engineer for road repairs. The payment is put in an escrow account. Every resident of that road is given access to a blockchain to monitor repairs. When all residents confirm that the road has been repaired, the payment is automatically released. This way the contractor cannot fudge work. Nor can municipal corporation delay payments to ask for bribes.

&gt;In India, cryptocurrency is in a legal black hole. It's not defined as a currency in India. Nor is it considered a commodity. So, at the moment the trade has few restrictive controls, though there is talk of SEBI regulations and GST imposition.

&gt;Are Bitcoin and other digital cryptocurrencies in a bubble? Yes, undoubtedly. Markets have trouble evaluating new assets. Remember the global internet bubble? That happened because investors got excited by the promise of new businesses but lacked the knowledge and metrics to make sane earnings-based valuations of such businesses. In a sense, digital cryptocurrency is even more difficult to evaluate - how do you value new global currencies?

&gt;The real dangers with crypto-currencies lie in their unregulated nature. Apart from cross-border trades, (which governments don't like), crypto-currencies have been used to fund too many crimes for comfort. Sooner rather than later, global central banks and market regulators will have to take stances on these new instruments. Those stances could be harsh and, thus, drive these cryptocurrencies into deep discounts. For what it's worth, I don't think trading in cryptocurrencies can be stopped since the market is too large and trading them is too easy. But curbs and controls could certainly affect valuations.

&gt;That's a large risk but if you can stomach it, consider the fact that rational asset allocations may involve taking small exposures to gold, silver and diamonds. Sometimes alternative investments involve buying art. Think of cryptocurrencies as something in between art and precious metals.