SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Governor, CM, DyCMs wish people on ‘Bihar Diwas’
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-22
URL: https://theprint.in/india/governor-cm-dycms-wish-people-on-bihar-diwas/2885883/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Patna, Mar 22 (PTI) Bihar Governor Syed Ata Hasnain and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday extended good wishes to the people of the state on the occasion of ‘Bihar Diwas’.
The 114th foundation day of Bihar is being celebrated here. Bihar was carved out of Bengal Presidency in British India on March 22, 1912.
The state government has organised multiple events as part of a three-day programme (March 22 to 24) featuring folk music, traditional dances, cultural programmes and exhibitions showcasing Bihar’s history and art.
Show Full Article
Hasnain “conveyed his heartfelt greetings and warm felicitations to all residents of Bihar and people of Bihari origin across the world on the auspicious occasion of Bihar Diwas,” according to a statement issued by Lok Bhavan.
He called upon everyone to renew their collective resolve to contribute wholeheartedly toward the holistic development of the state and the nation, while steadfastly upholding the rich legacy and glory of Bihar, the statement added.
“The history of Bihar has been full of glory, and through our resolve, we are building a glorious future for the state,” the CM wrote in a post on X.
Kumar called upon the people of the state to realise the commitment to building a prosperous Bihar.
“We will together take Bihar to new heights of glory,” he said.
Through his social media post, DyCM Samrat Chaudhary also called upon people to work towards making a Bihar that is “self-reliant, prosperous, full of opportunities and complementary to the progress of the nation.
Deputy Chief Minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said that the occasion is a reminder of Bihar’s rich cultural heritage, historic traditions, and the invaluable contributions of the great personalities it has produced.
“For centuries, Bihar has enriched India and lent new dimensions to knowledge, civilisation, and democratic values across the world. The state has long been recognised globally as a land of learning, spirituality, and culture,” he told reporters in Patna.
Sinha said that the continuous efforts of the Bihar government have led the state to the path of “holistic development”, adding that it is “our collective responsibility” to make Bihar prosperous, strong, and self-reliant.
“Let us all pledge to build a bright future with the spirit of ‘Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah’ (may all be happy), and ensure our participation in shaping a developed, empowered, and prosperous Bihar,” he said.
Themed around ‘Unnat Bihar, Ujjwal Bihar’, Bihar Diwas celebratory events in Patna are spread across three primary venues—Gandhi Maidan, Sri Krishna Memorial Hall, and Rabindra Bhawan.
Celebrities and artists, including Sona Mahapatra, Shaan, Angaraag Mahanta (Papon), Pandit Jagat Narayan Pathak, Prachi Pallavi Sahu, and N Vijayalakshmi, are expected to perform during the three-day programme at Sri Krishna Memorial Hall.
Cultural Pavilion, Mini Bihar Exhibition, Vyanjan Mela (Food Fair), and Education & Tourism Pavilions are being set up at Gandhi Maidan.
Iconic theatrical performances, including Bhikhari Thakur’s ‘Gabarghichor’ and the play ‘Vaijayanti’ are also scheduled to be staged at Rabindra Bhavan. PTI SUK RG
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.