SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Employer threatening with Cease and Desist letter and Criminal proceedings
DATE: 2025-05-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1kcv9le/employer_threatening_with_cease_and_desist_letter/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi I will keep this short 
I am a student at a college and was working at a company "claiming" to be Dubai based. I worked there from feb till 1st of this month and was terminated at 1st reason being said the company doesn't have funds to pay my salary. Even though the agreement I signed clearly mentioned the company is responsible to tell me of any such situations atleast 15 days prior. 
In my work there, I was overworked but I like the job so I kept doing it, HECK i was even awarded Employee of the month for the month of March but ofc didn't get the promised incentives. 
Now as you can predict this dude didn't pay me and 3 of the other employees their salaries for the month of march. And when I kept calling this other dude who basically hired me, he eventually blocked me from all the places and so did the founder. (it was a web3 company operating messages on telegram) 
And today in the morning as I am preparing for my end term exams I get a mail for cease and desist stating I have violated the NDA. Firstly I didn't do anything and secondly they claim I caused losses to the company of about 20crs 
Thirdly all of the things they claim I spread around are genuinely true. Lucky me I have all the relevant text an screenshots of them scamming a big crypto firm with their products. I even have voice recordings. 
I would like to iterate I am a student and I am scared asf rn so any advice would be helpful. If someone can guide me in any way it would mean a lot to me! 
"You will be served a **legal summons and cease-and-desist notice within 72 hours**, and be required to appear in legal proceedings to account for your actions." 
This is one of the lines sent in the mail please help guys. I read through the contract and I have not breached nothing mentioned there. Also they have no legal team, no Hr nothing its just a 2 person scam I can confidently tell this staying in the company so long. So yeah helpppp! 
Thanks