SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Complaint against OYO in Ingram
DATE: 2024-09-11
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fdp9i2/complaint_against_oyo_in_ingram/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had a bad experience with OYO room this July. I had prepaid booked a room - A big mistake.The room I had booked was not the one shown to me. It was in a horrid condition, a very small single bed room that was very dirty with lot's of missing amenities and no washroom. I confronted with the reception and with an attitude, he asked me to contact OYO. I did, and they tried calling the property owner and they didn't pick up the call. The OYO staff asked me to pass my call to the receptionist and he refused to answer. I understood this was some sort of scam.
Fine, I asked to refund my amount to the OYO staff and to my surprise, he said he can't do so because apparently I had checked in to the property that morning by providing OTP which wasn't true. I had barely reached the property that evening as I was in transit and not even once shared my OTP at any point. I even begged him to help me and even asked him to book an alternative room in a nearby property but to no avail. As it was getting late, I had no choice and I had to spend an additional amount to get the room even remotely advertised and even then it was missing amenities like AC and the room lacked hygiene with dirty toilet, spit marks on wall, dirty spreadsheets, and broken switches..

Upon reaching my home (different state), I decided to create a consumer complaint through ingram. Described everything and provided evidence. After couple of months of inactivity, I got a mail from ingram stating docking number was generated and within few days, a staff from OYO contacted me today afternoon. I did some explanation and she conveyed her apologies and said within two days the team will contact me. Today at night, I receive a call from a guy in OYO and he said to mail him the evidence of room condition and extra payment to initiate refund.

 How should I proceed? What should I be cautious about as this is my first experience with no one to advise. I won't be satisfied with just a refund. I need some form of action taken against the property for this scam, and the lack of negligence and support on OYO's part. I would have been satisfied with refund at that day but it doesn't feel justified with the trauma that I had to endure.

Thanks in advance