SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Do I have any other choice than taking this case back?
DATE: 2024-04-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1c6wo22/do_i_have_any_other_choice_than_taking_this_case/

--- POST TEXT ---

It’s been 5 months since I gave complaint against a guy for attempt to rape and murder,
He was in jail for one month and came out, he and his family are trying to contact my parents and they contacted one of my village head, idk what they have told him, he called my dad and told your daughter was not in pg she stayed with someone in flat also she gave complaint against a guy ask her what happened, 

I was so confused what to say I lied and managed somehow, I can’t tell my parents what happened with me they might give me more trauma.
I am depressed and I have ADHD and anxiety, it’s making it more worse 

And his lawyer contacted me I denied for settlement so they contacted that uncle again, 
Now my parents doubt me and no freedom. 
I can’t even show my face to my parents, they don’t know truth try still it’s hard for me.
I managed somehow.

I asked them to call that uncle and manage something if they want me to take this case back, so they did.

Now they are asking me to show Mersey on him, he lost job, he was in jail for a month, his parents spent all their money on him, his visa declined, they mean to say he just tired to rape and murder u, he did not coz he is kind.

I begged him to leave me that day I cried I did everything, I even tired to explain the consequences in future, he didn’t care and continued shooting my videos.

They are blackmailing and torturing me,
I can’t handle this anymore, if I give complaint again they contact my family, I am hopeless 😞 

I have to meet his lawyer next week and sign.
I am feeling so bad, this is why most of the women don’t file FIR, I just wants to end this and run away somewhere far from people.

Ps; I deleted that post, I met a guy on bumble in Bangalore, on 2nd date he asked me to go out for dinner but he took too his place by saying I need to change my clothes, i directly picked u from office, and tried to rape and kill me at his place. 
He lied about his name, native and phone number too 
Still police found him