SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: I need a job to survive, preferably remote
DATE: 2025-03-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1jeq6cw/i_need_a_job_to_survive_preferably_remote/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm 27M, living in Hyderabad. I recently lost my job due to process automation and redundancy, and I'm really struggling to even survive due to financial and personal commitments. I have 7 years of experience in the customer service domain, and my last drawn CTC was 7 LPA. Lastly, I worked as a Senior Quality Analyst for a big company, and my area of expertise lies in Quality Assurance, Fraud Prevention, Risk Analysis, Client Handling, and Reporting.

I can say I'm a jack of all trades but master at nothing. Because I was very passionate about tech, but I wasn't consistent due to my background. Even coming till here was a dream at some point for me, but I still have 6 lakh debt to clear, which is impacting my learning curve.

A little bit about me, I love building computers, and I pursued it, but I failed due to lack of financial strength. I love Data Analysis, I can say I'm good with Advanced Excel and have exposure to SQL and Power BI, but I couldn't pursue it due to lack of financial strength. I have exposure to Salesforce, programming languages like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and very little Python, but couldn't pursue due to lack of financial strength. I was a committed guy, but I couldn't be consistent because my financial commitments are eating me every day.

The current job market situation is giving a tough time for me and my family. I tried fighting my best, but I came to the point that I couldn't even have a single rupee. In fact, I don't even have a laptop to upskill myself and attend interviews now because I had to scrape whatever I had to meet my financial commitmets.

The only thing that is pushing me is knowing that I don't have anything to lose anymore. I mean, I had one, my job, but I even lost that. And then there's my family too, I can only wish I could provide better for them.

If there's anyone who can help me with an entry-level role in a technical domain, I'll be really grateful. I can assure anyone that I'm a capable resource, but unfortunately, I'm not getting any interview calls.

I'm in a very tough spot, and I can really use some help to land a job, just to survive and pay my EMIs. If there's anyone who can come forward, that’ll mean the world to me.