SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Registered Marriage via Hindu Marriage act queries
DATE: 2022-12-09
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/zgq4b0/registered_marriage_via_hindu_marriage_act_queries/

--- POST TEXT ---

My ex gf and myself had broken up and decided to part ways , two months after the breakup she pesters me and forces me to marry her for which I didn't agree. Since I didn't oblige to her requests of getting married to her , she complained against me to the police station stating that I have not been marrying her due to her SC/ST caste.She brought along with her women from the women's welfare comission who were demanding my arrest at the police station. The women welfare ladies threatened that they would make sure to get me jailed if i didn't marry her. Even the police were on their side and threatened me that they would jail me. They forcefully made me sign a NCR stating that I would get married to her on the very next day. The very next day the marriage was registered in sub registrar office forcefully. There were no Hindu rites performed like mangalsutra tying around her neck, sapthapadi or garland exchange, nor it was solemnized as per Hindu rites. After the alleged register marriage she goes to her house and i reach my house , The marriage was not consumated and we have never lived under the same roof after the marriage.
20 days after this incident , i filed for divorce since I did not consent for marriage and the hearing begins from the next month, Now her family is falsely claiming that the marriage was consumated on the day of marriage at our house and they are also claiming that before the said marriage i have raped her multiple times , which is totally false, they are also further claiming that before the register marriage all rites were performed as per Hindu customs at her brothers residence , since none of this occured there are no photographs of solemnization of marriage as per Hindu customs.

Now coming to my queries..

1.Can a marriage be registered at a Sub registar in accordance with Hindu marriage act without necessary photos produced as proof to them that the marriage was done as per Hindu customs ? ( Her father produced a fake invitation card printed on the same day to the sub registrar as proof , which was the only thing given by them as proof to the sub registrar to register this marriage)

2. Her family is making false claims that the marriage was consumated, Can I request court to obtain phone locations of both our phones , so that the truth that we were not together on the first night of our marriage can come out ? How else can I prove the marriage was not consumated?

3. After filing for divorce she has filed for RCR and maintenance from me , even though we have not lived together even for an hour after the alleged marriage . Will the RCR and maintenance be quashed by court since I already applied for divorce?

4. She has made false statements that I raped her and had sex without consent after i filed for divorce , which is totally false . Will the police/court consider this false rape claim of her after i applied for divorce ?