SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Environmental activists oppose Kerala govt’s Wayanad twin tunnel project, move SC
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-14
URL: https://theprint.in/india/environmental-activists-oppose-kerala-govts-wayanad-twin-tunnel-project-move-sc/2879260/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Wayanad(Kerala), Mar 14 (PTI) Environmental activists and groups have opposed the twin tunnel road project at Maripuzha here, alleging that it is “suicidal” as it was undertaken without scientific studies or an environmental impact assessment (EIA).
The Wayanad Environment Protection Committee told PTI that tunnels are being drilled through extremely sensitive mountain ranges and could end up destablising the area and causing landslides like the ones in Mundakkai and Chooralmala in 2024 that claimed over 200 lives.
It also said that the project was coming up near the areas that were hit by the landslides in 2024.
Show Full Article
The committee has moved the Supreme Court against the project.
Environmental activist Basheer Anand John, while speaking to PTI, warned that the project will have a serious impact on the surrounding area.
He claimed that drilling through the extremely sensitive mountain ranges, which receive the highest rainfall in the world, will destroy the natural structure of Wayanad.
“When a one-kilometer tunnel is built, lakhs of litres of water are drained from the mountains. This will change the course of the groundwater and destroy the internal stability of the mountains,” John claimed.
He also claimed that when the natural springs inside the rocks are cut as a result of the project, Wayanad will head towards a major drought.
He alleged that the environmental clearance for the project was given by hiding the real facts.
Environmental activist and Wayanad district secretary of the Environment Protection Committee, Thomas Ambalavayal, claimed that the proposed tunnel would destroy the very subterranean structure of the Western Ghats.
He told PTI that the vibrations caused by blasting of the rocks would affect the natural stability of the mountains and this would lead to major landslides in the future.
He said that it would also completely destroy the habitat of the wildlife in the area, including elephant herds.
CPI(ML) Red Star district secretary K V Prakash alleged that there was a massive corruption and involvement of real estate and quarry mafias behind the tunnel project.
He told PTI that presenting this project as an easy way for Wayanad people to reach the medical college for their medical needs was just a scam.
Prakash contended that instead of building a super specialty hospital for the people of Wayanad, crores of rupees are being spent on the tunnel to help contractors and mafias. PTI COR HMP ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.