SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I got scammed today. 
DATE: 2024-11-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gvg6m0/i_got_scammed_today/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’m so pissed. I had been on indeed looking for a job and came across a warehouse position for Amazon. A warehouse in my local area which is real and I promptly applied. Upon clicking the “apply now” tab it sent me straight to the Amazon jobs website (not thinking any of it since usually indeed will do that) I applied set my interview time after receiving a “contingency offer” (should have been red flag #1) and set my interview time. And after an hour or so I got an email stating that my scheduled appointment had been cancelled for unknown reasons (red flag #2). I went back into the “Amazon jobs” website logged in and rescheduled it was a success! It proceeded to tell me I needed to complete my I9 (red flag #3) before my interview the next day and so like a dummy I did. My name address, DOB and ssn. Complete! It then asked me to upload my documents to verify my identity for a background check (red flag #4) to which I did not because who in the hell would upload such personal information right? After seeing that it definitely made me question if I got scammed? (which I did) I needed up verifying the real Amazon website which I already had an account for (which I forgot about) and the job I had just applied for had not been listed under “jobs you have applied for” there was no history of it. There couldn’t be 2 Amazon job websites? Of course there was. One was legit and the other fake!! I can’t believe it. I’m so pissed at myself for falling for something like this. I even ended up chatting with a “virtual chat” representative who name was of Indian descent (red flag #5) by which this time I already knew. I was actually just hoping to scamming them back by saying I input the incorrect information and needed to edit and of course they couldn’t help me with that. All in all be careful everyone just wanted to give you my story so no one else has to go through this. Verify everything!!! The smaller details is what you need to look into a number the color a simple letter. Double, triple, quadruple check everything. Be careful out there as they are getting more advance with the scamming. It brought me back to seeing that YT video of how these bastards scammed a little old lady into transferring millions into a fake account and she took her life. RIP to her. 

Should I feel better that I’m not a person who has money, no bank accounts, no 401k, no pension, no job, no assets, nothing of any kind no cc’s, nothing! I have absolutely nothing to my name I just wanted a job to help out with the bills since the economy has been hitting really hard. A moment like this should I be grateful that I’m poor? Lol.