SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Very Serious Legal advice needed...
DATE: 2020-09-06
SCORE: 168
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/inqtta/very_serious_legal_advice_needed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Greetings,

One month ago, I joined a Indian call centre.

When I initially visited, the boss told me that they were helping people in the United States by providing them with loans and insurance during the interview process. So, I thought it was legit and started working there. ( I am very gullible and stupid so I didn't realize it at the time that it was a scam call centre )

I was instructed to call some numbers given on the list provided to me and tell the people who picked up the call that their loan application was approved upto 10,000$ and if they agreed to take the loan then we were to ask them the loan amount they needed... their routing number, account number and other details which was later used by the boss who asked them to secure their loan amount through a 100$ insurance. 

Slowly I realized, the list i was given mainly targeted very old people and baited them for loan. The 100$ insurance money was never refunded back to them.

This was the opening script that I was made to say on call: https://imgur.com/a/gCP71eh

I worked there for a month until I started getting suspicious because the people who were promised loans kept calling back days after the boss said that loans had been given to them and the boss was ignoring their calls after they had send the 100$ or something for insurance. 

So few days ago, I took phone number of one of the lady whose calls were ignored by the boss and secretly called her today. She said that she got scammed of 1500$ in total. My heart was crushed after listening to her.

That was just one customer. I am pretty sure my boss has scammed many old people in there 70s or 80s baiting them into some personal unsecured loan.

Now, I am feeling really guilty and angry. I'm planning to report these scammers to the cyber cell.

My questions are:

(a) Will I get arrested too if I reported the call centre to police because I worked there for a month being ignorant
... I really had no idea it was a scam until today?

(b) What evidences do I need? (The lady who got scammed told me she was ready to cooperate incase I needed evidence if I reported to the police)

Please guide me. I need some serious legal advice.

tl;dr worked in a scam indian call centre for a month and just realized now

(sorry for my terrible grammar)

EDIT1 - Karl Rock has replied to my email yesterday and is willing to help. I've shared with him the address, name, phone number and other details of the call centre that I had. He said that he will reply to me soon. 

I'll update this post as soon as I get an update from him.