SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Decived by a girl for a potential Psychology experiment
DATE: 2023-11-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/182ink3/decived_by_a_girl_for_a_potential_psychology/

--- POST TEXT ---

I made a friend on Twitter 1.5y ago called Shreya(who says her pet name is Mannat or Mannu or Riddhi of Khuffi). 
We chatted extensively. Day and night almost everyday. 
She used to send me voice notes of her singing. She never used to call cuz she only talks to her mom apparently. I never bothered. I happened to travel through her city on a trip and wanted to meet her. She didn't show up and said cuz her mom, died(a psychology prof nearby Delhi. Shreya gave me access to this email of her mom. Its old email where I once saw letter from clg etc). I then had enough proofs to believe that story of death. Then she wanted a relationship, i denied cuz we never met. We still kept talking. I was emotionally invested but never committed. I was doing as helping a good friend. Infact she talking helped me at my tough times. Couple of months ago she introduced me to her roommate and we got talking too. It was suspicious that they both used to text at same time (one on WhatsApp and one on telegram). I got suspicious and asked for phone call. She started spinning stories like her father is raping her (I have some screenshots of convo).

She gave me multiple phone numbers of which 2 don't work. 1 is of middle aged woman and another of middle aged man she claimed as her parents. I verified that name and employment of mom character checks out. I called them up and they say they have no idea.
I went back to the transaction she did to me few months ago. The bank account name seems to be the MOTHER'S NAME WO Father's name.
I called the num she gave as dad and he says he has no idea and he was hacked few months ago. In Truecaller, the girls number shows his name now (used to show her name before). 
He now is claiming i possibly hacked him.
Also, he now literally said the name of my tier 2 home town and i think he is possibly a part of the whole saga.

Thing is she told similar yet different story to 2 other people. I got to talk to them by chance(she gave one of the numbers as her brother and she gave him my address as her brother). The other one reached out to me cuz she was mutual connection.

I called the so called brother (we didn't talk) and then she started acting weird and blocked me. After that I called the brother again and he's a victim of this fake story thing too.

Apparently she talked about sexual fantasies with them. But they deleted the chat cuz it looked sus to them too.

Today I sat and was reverse image searching her photos and found Instagram account of someone in Canada. I reached out to alert them but i could only send 1 message (idk insta much).

So now how can I take legal action against them for everything. Impersonation, cheating etc. I want to make sure they can't repeat this ever.

I never paid them any money but she herself paid for 4 of my dinners a few weeks ago.

TLDR: met someone on Twitter. Talked for months. Created fake stories. Impersonates some real people. Cheated multiple guys with similar yet diff stories. 

Need help stopping this.

At this point i have no idea was she was trying to do no money was ever sent to her by me or her so called brother (another victim) i feel like it was some sick Psychology experiment.