SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Please help need desperate advice, my mother got scammed by a broker

DATE: 2024-02-26
SCORE: 33
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1b0jr9k/please_help_need_desperate_advice_my_mother_got/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mother got scammed by a political influential person recently, we were looking for a broker to get a loan and this person approached us. He seemed trustworthy and gradually won over the trust, he helped us get the loan and told us he was borrowing the money and will promptly return it. We never got it back, after some deep investigation we found out this fucker does this for a living, he scammed some old people just with this scheme. 

He targets people without any background support (my mother is a sick person and my father died when I was a kid me and my brother are not really that old either, I'm still doing my engineering and my brother just graduated from degree), my brother and my mom has been to countless police stations already, this guy is using his political influence and buying these people called "cops", 

my mother gets constantly berated by these so called cops and they make her come to the station frequently despite her been a dialysis patient and can't walk. We recently learned they tricked my mother into closing the case, if we approach them they are simply telling us to take it to the court.

 I keep telling my mother to just drop it but she just won't. The money despite the sum is not worth all this headache in my opinion I just can't see my mother depressed like this anymore. Please, any advice or any one who knows someone who can help us just comment,

 this part is important so please pay attention, WE HAVE HUGE AMOUNTS OF EVIDENCE. My brother was very suspicious and hence he recorded all the calls, conversations and made all transfers through bank so we can have proofs, we have solid proof and this guy has so many cases like this on his name, any advice is appreciated. We live in andhrapradesh state in vizag city and this guy is from madhurawada in vizag and he claims he is military, approaches helpless people and scams them. 

Another question of mine is the police keeps rejecting our case (despite accepting at first) saying it's a "civil case and take it to the court", let's we do take it to the court how long till this gets settled approximately? I understand that lawyers are costly and how much would it cost, we lost around 8 lakhs. Also how much merit does the police have saying that our case is a civil case?