SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Have I been Pwned?
DATE: 2019-09-04
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/cznv46/have_i_been_pwned/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am not a native English speaker so excuse my, if any mistakes. 

Okay,..... So I just visited my email inbox today after a week, because I never quite do it that often, just to check my business whatever. Suddenly I noticed an email from an address called " I recorded you" yes the email address was literally that. Long story short, you all probably now it, some anonymous douche trying to threaten on me claiming he has gained access to my password, which was actually written at the top (made me freak out a little bit) due to my un-updated browser and old browser. He went on and on saying he has videos of me jerking off as he now has access to my webcam and recorded it
(At that moment I realised he was full of shit because I never jerk in front of my PC lmao). Then he instructed me how to avoid my life being ruined by telling me to pay him some $1500 in bitcoin, for which I had two days otherwise he would send the videos of me jerking off and other nasty shit to all my friends and family. I checked my inbox and I found FOUR, yes 4 email like this, except one of them had different email address.
Now, I already knew something smelt fishy here but Ill admit, i was pretty scared, as my laptop indeed had some viruses on it (i ignored them, i never use it anymore). I proceeded to read about this on the internet and, thank fuck people say it's all SCAM, the email always looks the same for everybody, some dude trying to scrounge money from you, otherwise he destroys your life. So my question is? Am I really safe? Is it really a scam like 100% percent or should i just hang myself right away? He clearly said I had two days to pay the money, but the email is like 5 days long, and the others are more than a week old, and nothing happened (unless some of my friends enjoys watching me jerk lol) anyway I went on Have I Been Pwned portal, typed in my email and yes indeed, it has been pwned, in total two times.
So, my question is, does anyone really have access to personal data&amp; password ? I already changed all my passwords, including email and social media. I even downloaded 1Password app which I dont know how to use but anyway i hope some of you will explain to me how to use ,which I thank you for in advance. Please comment if anything like that has ever happened to you or somebody you know before and how you dealt with that. Im aware its probably bullshit but im still pretty scared and clueless right now, i have very stressful months in front of me connected with university and education, so I dont want to totally lose my shit by then. Thank you for reading this, even if it's full of mess (i was typing pretty goddamn fast) take care and dont let these motherfuckers from India or somewhere trick you in such way.