SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] [Rant] Fuck xiaomi flashsales.
DATE: 2018-03-28
SCORE: 20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/87q728/np_rant_fuck_xiaomi_flashsales/

--- POST TEXT ---

So xiaomi launched Redmi Note 5 Pro(RN5pro) with Snapdragon 636 and display with 18:9 aspect ratio and I was waiting for that phone from August 2017. 

Xiaomi said they were going to launch RN5 pro in the month of September and then they said they'll be launching desh ka smartphone and once again I was hyped because Redmi note 4 was desh ka smartphone so I thought it'll definitely be RN5. But in the month of October or November motherfuckers launched redmi 5A by calling that desh ka smartphone. Lots of people got pissed because of that. Then they said RN5 is going to come in the month of December but once again I was disappointed. They launched it in the 2nd week of January 2018 and then the most hard part began. The waiting part seems really walk in the park in front of those fuck all flashsales. Firstly they removed cash on delivery option so now it's even more frustrating. So I've been trying to get RN5 pro since 2nd week of February and still no luck. I don't go to college when there is falshsale so that I can get even more disappointed when I don't get the phone. Every time when there is flashsale I get excited and as soon as the clock strikes 12 I get really sad and upset. Most sad part about is that now xiaomi has many assembly units in India and then also they try to create this fake scarcity.

I don't know how much phones they stockpile for one flashsale, but when I got to the review section I saw about 20k 5 stars and another total of 10k from 4, 3, 2 and 1 star section. So that means they have only sold like approx 30k to 40k pieces. This one time I saw an manufacturing/assembly plant tour that are in India given by Manu madarchod. Those units are really big and they have like hundreds of assembly workers and he said something like it takes 2 to 3 minutes to assembly one unit. I don't see any problem there because they have many assembly buildings in India and hundreds of workers assembling so there's now wat there is any scarcity.

I think they are doing that to hype their phones but I don't think they need that because they are using really good quality processors and good hardware so why depend on such cheap tactics for sales? It's not helping their sales but instead it's making their customers think whether it's a good idea to invest in xiaomi or not.