SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: People who have studied/taught kids abroad: What things need to be eliminated? and What kind of knowledge / Books must be inculcated into our children's syllabi to increase their advantage in the outside world?
DATE: 2024-01-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/18vv3s4/people_who_have_studiedtaught_kids_abroad_what/

--- POST TEXT ---

There are huge loads of syllabi and most of them are overburdened with too many pages for rote which will sadly be of little use. 

For eg - 

children can rely on documentaries to understand history/geography.
One documented video from a well-learned person can benefit thousands in a short time.

The dictations should work only in language classes but not in science/economics/history classes where they simply copy from the textbooks. It simply means poor quality of education and 0 input from teachers.

Examinations shouldn't be penalized on memory only. People need more skill than rote memory to excel.

Many of the syllabi can be unburdened and many chapters can be compressed to reduce the information density.

Recitations of poems: I understand memorizing lines for the drama, but the recitation of poems? Its time taking and hardly does enhance any skill in a child. Rather than that, viva can be introduced to ask which lines mean what.

Additional :

Introductory things can benefit our population a lot :

for example, if there is some problem in the road in your area ., how to fix it?

The school teacher sees irregularities in PWD contractor's work, rather than shouting on Twitter, how does he report?
 
I guarantee you, half the guys reading here won't know which &amp; how to approach local bodies to get it fixed, its not our fault, we are trained to suck it up and not ask questions above. i.e, its been so since colonial times

In US &amp; UK you won't need the above, but a red tape country like India needs it. The system is built so to hide information from the public

Information about banking, investments, and insurance: We have been relying on FD &amp; RD, and ever since that 92 scam ppl vastly avoid stocks for understandable reasons. The large population didn't know about banks &amp; thought it to be rich ppl thing even during the 90s. People are still taking loans from shady financial services
A financially educated population will vastly benefit

necessary - Proper driving lesson - People wont care until it shows up in grades, right?

Bright side - I don't have issues how math is taught, but 11 , 12 is a steep curve though

This is just not criticism, we can inculcate tech in our education to advantage, their are pros and cons to it. Just wanted to know your side.