SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: US Army probing military helicopters flying near Kid Rock’s house, anti-Trump protests
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/india/us-army-probing-military-helicopters-flying-near-kid-rocks-house-anti-trump-protests/2892915/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Washington:
The U.S. Army said on Monday it was investigating why military helicopters were operating near the house of singer Kid Rock, seemingly in support ​of the vocal backer of U.S. President Donald Trump, and also ‌near anti-Trump protests.
Over the weekend, Rock posted a video on X, which showed two Army Apache helicopters flying next to his house in Nashville, Tennessee. The singer, standing in front ​of his swimming pool, can be seen saluting one of the helicopters.
Military ​helicopters were also seen flying close to demonstrators in the city, ⁠who were taking part in protests decrying Trump’s aggressive deportation efforts, war ​in Iran and other policies.
Show Full Article
“Army aviators must adhere to strict safety standards, professionalism, and ​established flight regulations. An administrative review is underway to assess the mission and verify compliance with regulations and airspace requirements,” U.S. Army spokesperson Major Montrell Russell said.
“Appropriate action will be taken ​if any violations are found. Until the review is complete, there will be ​no further comment,” Russell added.
The U.S. military is supposed to be apolitical, loyal to the ‌U.S. ⁠Constitution and independent of any party or political movement.
U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth has moved quickly to reshape the military, firing top generals and admirals as he seeks to implement Trump’s national security agenda and root out diversity initiatives he calls ​discriminatory.
Democratic lawmakers have ​warned the Trump ⁠administration is increasingly trying to use the military for political gain.
In his post about the helicopters, Rock took a swipe ​at Democratic California Governor Gavin Newsom.
“God Bless America and all ​those who ⁠have made the ultimate sacrifice to defend her,” Rock commented above the video of the helicopters.
Over the weekend, as part of the anti-Trump “No Kings” protests, more than 3,200 ⁠events ​had been planned in all 50 states, after ​the two previous nationwide events attracted millions of participants. Local news said thousands took part in Nashville ​as part of the protests.
This report is auto-generated from Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.