SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Horrible experience at Dr Swetha’s Cosmoderm Center! Money down the drain.
DATE: 2023-09-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/16i8u16/horrible_experience_at_dr_swethas_cosmoderm/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have seen various people asking for dermatologist recommendations in Bangalore and quite a lot of suggestions were to go for Dr Swetha’s Cosmoderm Center in Indiranagar. 

I was also looking for the same and thought to check out Dr Swetha’s for a small non surgical procedure and if it was okay, then go for the actual issues. So I called them up and asked for Hydrafacial appointment. For those who don’t know, Hydrafacial is a complex facial procedure and requires handling of potent serum and facial vaccum on facial skin. I called them and asked for appointment on Monday, they said Shwetha Ma’am is not available on Monday. I confirmed if the procedure would be donr by Shwetha, they said yes. After a while they called me back and said they can book for a 5.30 pm appointment on Tuesday . Since I was not available on Tuesday, I booked it for yesterday, i.e Wednesday at 5.30 PM. I had confirmed the price and they said its 7k plus taxes. The price sounded a lot but since it was to be done by a certified dermat, I thought at least I’ll be in the safe hands. 

Anyhoo, I reached the place at 5.40. I told them that there was some jam around the Indiranagar metro side hence I’ll be 10 mins late. Well I reached the place and 2 girls were sitting on the reception. They asked me to sit while they prep for the procedure. Asked me to sign a consent form and signalled me to go inside a room. I asked where is dr Swetha? They said my procedure won’t be done by Swetha as she doesn’t do Hydrafacial. I asked why did you guys say that it’ll be done by her on the call. The girl started making faces and said no body told me it’s going to be dr Swetha. I asked then who’ll do it. She pointed to the girl who was sitting at the reception. At this point, I was shocked. I asked if she has certifications to perform this procedure on me. She said she has been TRAINED by Dr swetha. I asked does she understand the difference between certification and training!! I said it’s a matter of my face, I can’t compromise here. Today beauty parlours also offer Hydrafacial at 4-5k but I didn’t prefer them because they are certified. And here I am paying extra and I am not even getting the dermatologist. At this point she called a guy, maybe her manager I guess and he started sugar coating, asked me to at least try before coming to the conclusion.

I gave in and said yes. I was taken into a room and the procedure started. I was super excited for this hydrafacial since a while now and I had done a lot of research and I sort of knew the steps. She has applied a cleanser and started using vacuum for extraction and using extremely low pressure and mostly focusing on nose and cheeks. I asked any she is not using it on the neck and sides of my face, she said extraction is not focused there. Then she used serum and again it was mostly on nose and cheeks. I kept asking her that I have pigmentation on the sides of my face and she didn’t apply there even not my neck. My neck basically was not a part of a process. I had seen on yt videos about lymphatic node massage being a step in Hydrafacial where the pressure is applied from to neck to side of the ears. This step was completely missed. And when I asked about it, the girl said she has no idea what lymphatic node is. Also, she said she os using a very little glycolic acid since this is my first time. And asked if I wanted some serum whoch cost rs 700 extra. I asked what it is. She said it’d brighten up my face. I asked again what’s the main components and she was not able to read from that tube and passed it to me to see. Well it was vit C and alpha aurbitin. Well, as a last step she used a basic sheet mask on me. And I was wondering when the led therapy mask would start which they are promoting so heavily on their Hydrafacial ads. Well turns out, they don’t have a provision for it. 

My procedure ended and I felt nothing. No changes in my face, my whiteheads and blackheads stayed put and I was feeling like a fool. Well I went to pay and I was told there’d be extra charges for credit card. I paid through UPI but I was not given a bill. She said it’ll go in my email id. I said no I want it now. Then she asked about my email id, and I was like how the hell you were gonna send the bill if you don’t have an email id. Anyhow I received the bill of 8200 something and that was FAKE bill. They applied 12 percent tax and that was not a GsT bill, not a tax receipt. I asked her to give a tax receipt not a fake bill and she said this is what they give.

Well at this point I was hating myself to the core. Why did I take a decision to go here and literally poured my money down the drain. My husband said we can file a legal case against them for a tax fraud and giving a fake bill. We’ll start working on that once we are back from the vacation.

I hope my post would help people who are considering Dr Shwetha’s cosmoderm center.