SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Thor Shipping Job Scam
DATE: 2023-09-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/16dpce1/thor_shipping_job_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was looking for a job on indeed and I saw a work from home job that looked perfect. They then sent me an automated email with a Google docs form to fill out with my contact info. I get no reply from them, but then this completely random shipping company based in California emails me about how they found my resume to be exactly what they’re looking for and how they pay $4,000 a month plus an extra $40 for every box I deliver. My first thought hearing about me delivering boxes was on of those phone center scams where they hire people to deliver the packages full of the victims money in it and I wanted no part in it. The thing is I never applied to this company or even heard of them, so I googled them and found no internet presence at all. Then I get a call from someone claiming to be from the company trying to talk to me about my “application approval” and I hung up immediately not wanting anything to do with this. The guy on the phone also had an Indian accent and I started thinking it actually was a scam call center trying to employ me. They tried calling me again and I didn’t pick up, so they left me a voicemail and another email saying to contact them anytime about questions. I tried googling them again to see if I can find any info about them and I found a single review left on some website called ripoff report with a guy explaining the exact same scenario I had. They had gotten his info on indeed and tried to make him buy his own time clock to punch in and out of work. When he asked the guy on the phone why he would be the one to purchase it himself they had hung up on him and stopped contacting him. What didn’t make any sense is how my indeed profile doesn’t show my private info, so my only guess is they disguised themselves as a legitimate company to get peoples info. I just wanted people to be aware of this scam. I don’t know if they’re trying to employ people or steal their credit card info or what. I’m just wondering if anyone else has any answers?