SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Excise duty cuts on fuel a historic, pro-people step: Chhattisgarh CM
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/india/excise-duty-cuts-on-fuel-a-historic-pro-people-step-chhattisgarh-cm/2890061/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Raipur, Mar 27 (PTI) Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Vishnu Deo Sai on Friday hailed the Centre’s decision to slash excise duty on petrol and diesel, terming it a “historic” and “pro-people” move that would provide direct relief to 140 crore citizens across the country.
Sai said that amid the prevailing global challenges, the Centre’s resolve to shield citizens from additional financial burden reflects a sensitive and people-centric approach with a tangible impact on everyday life.
The government has slashed special additional excise duty on petrol from Rs 13 a litre to Rs 3 and the same on diesel from Rs 10 per litre to nil. The move aims to shield domestic consumers from a surge in global oil prices triggered by the ongoing conflict in the Middle East.
Show Full Article
The government has also brought back duties on the export of diesel and aviation turbine fuel (ATF).
The excise duty cut follows record losses suffered by oil companies due to the surge in international oil prices. Prices of crude oil, the raw material for making petrol and diesel, have surged almost 50 per cent this month as the US and Israel’s attack on Iran and Tehran’s sweeping retaliation disrupts global supply.
Sai, in an official statement, lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “sensitivity and foresight” in taking the step.
The “historic” and “pro-people” move that would provide direct relief to 140 crore citizens across the country, he said.
The chief minister stated that the decision would bring significant relief to all sections of society, including families, farmers, labourers and the middle class.
Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, the Central government has consistently prioritised public welfare, and the latest decision reflects its commitment to the well-being of citizens, he said. PTI TKP ARU
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.