SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Please dont ignore. HELP ME OUT 
DATE: 2024-07-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1e82ktr/please_dont_ignore_help_me_out/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys. So my sister in law filed a complaint against my whole family. On the claim that we have been mentally harassing her for dowry, and we hit her everyday. (she has no proof of any claims in the FIR literally everything is a lie) tho she never stayed at our place for more than 12 days maximum. Now if anyone wants to know the full context do read this post
 
https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/s/x7tz9Q2ay1

As i said in the last paragraph that they have filed a compliant against us (police took the FIR without informing us for 15 days) they called my brother and asked him to come meet for counselling. My brother and us went with a lawyer (just to be safe). We came to know that they have filed an FIR against us and they were planning to arrest us. 
Due to some luck we escaped from there. 

Fast forward we filed for a bail and we got it. Now one thing we didn't know before all this was the fact that my sister in law had my brother's private videos with her (in which he's naked with a girl (his girlfriend before the marriage). They told the police that the video is of after marriage and that he cheated her(my brother has proof that it's before the marriage) we don't know how she got the videos. 
So we got the bail and we had to go meet the police for some documentation so we did. The police called my sister in law and her parents to come. They came with JAMAAT Muslim organisation) they solve cases like this. They came and talked to my parents and told us that in one week tell us about your decision. We were planning to go with jamaat instead of law they went with law first so we followed the same. That day after we were out of the police station they had 15 rowdies with them (as soon as me and my family came downstairs) all of them came to attack us. My sister in law and her mother threw chappal at my parents. And attacked me as well. all of this happened just in front of the police station. We filed a complaint against them but there was no follow up from the police. We got scared and just kept quiet. our lawyer did nothing as well. After all this we were waiting for the hearings and just kept our calm to follow the law(they were provoking us from the start). In the police station the police asked my sister in law to submit proof of all the claims she made in the FIR. She rejected the document didn't take it. 

Now after a week police called my brother again this time told him that she has left her clothes there (at my brother's home and that he should send them back) Tho they have all our gold with them, i dont understand police can do this. They are not following up on our complaints but calling my brother every week. We told the police that we are busy currently and that we'll send all her clothes to her after few days.
Today my sister in law, her parents and two police officers(one from their hometown one police officer was from our hometown) came to our home. Luckily we weren't home that time. The police called my mother I talked to the officer and he said we are here to collect the clothes( I told him that the case is ongoing in the court and that they have our gold with them to which he said okay). My sister in law and her parents showed those pictures and videos of my brother to everyone in our area and said that my brother has left her and is doing all this behind her back (our reputation is ruined completely). We had to stay outside all day today. We were scared to come home. After all this we went to the police and talked with the CPI he was very supportive of my sister in law he literally told my mother that your son is wrong let them do what they want. I told him that the court will decide who's wrong and who isn't. How can you send police to our home? to which he said they just wanted their clothes. I pushed him to take our complaint that we don't feel safe. They didn't take it. 

We don't know what to do anymore. She keeps her and my brother's personal chats on WhatsApp status. She calls my mother whore bitch( we have all the proofs) no one is listening to our complaints. The police is supporting them completely everything they do is supported just because she has those videos with her.

We feel helpless. I feel like our lawyer is not doing anything. And that the police is taking bribe and listening to their complaints only. My mother is a sugar and bp patient. We had to take her to hospital today(bcoz of low BP). 

Please help us out (SOMEONE WHO KNOWS LAW IN AND OUT) tell us what we can do. We have lot of proofs. Her father and mother threatening and abusing my brother. Their chats in which she has abused my whole family, my sisters(in the chat she said that my brother should sleep with my sister (that they are whores). I'm crying my heart out while writing all this. We are extremely exhausted. They're not letting us live in peace (we are going by the law). 

If you have any questions feel free to ask.