SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Maa Ambay Fabrics harassing and threatening to come to my house if i don't take my google review down.
DATE: 2025-01-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1htggd9/maa_ambay_fabrics_harassing_and_threatening_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

This situation began some time ago, and I recently received a message from them threatening to visit my house if I did not remove my Google review. This has happened several times, so I needed to write about it.

I had ordered some fabrics from Maa Ambay Fabrics, but one fabric was missing when the parcel arrived. I contacted customer service about the issue, and the representative asked me to place another order, assuring me that she would send the missing fabric in that new order and that it was human error on their part. I placed another order, hoping they would send me the fabric, but I didn’t receive the missing fabric, and one of my other orders (that I had placed before this order) also had another fabric missing. I messaged the representative again and received no reply regarding the issue.

I did what I thought was appropriate and gave them a one-star Google review. The next morning, I got a call from them, during which they called me "insensitive" and said it was a "human error" on their part for not sending me the fabric again. They asked me to delete my review to get the missing fabrics, but I didn't delete it. That’s when their harassment began—messaging me and demanding that I take down the review or they would file a defamation case against me. They called and messaged so much utter bullshit that I have no words for this behavior. Is this how a business is supposed to work? And after a while I got a message from their 'owner'(he said so while introducing himself which is weird because on Google it says it is a women-owned business but a guy messaged me) and asked if he could help me with anything. After telling him everything he said that he could send me another fabric of that same value and I did choose a fabric and sent the screenshot to him and waited for a reply. The next day I received a message saying 'Sorry that fabric is out of stock' and offered me a refund or a 50% off coupon code instead. I asked for a refund and he said sure send me the bank details. I sent the UPI code and he said he couldn't do the transaction as he owns a corporate business and wanted bank details. After sending him the bank details he asked for my GST number(?????)

After waiting for a week for the refund I got a message from him saying that the fabric I wanted was back in stock to which I replied with "When am I getting the refund?" then he sent me a screenshot of my product that sold on Amazon (also placed a COD order of that same product of 5 quantity) and the Maa Ambay Fabric team has now reached my Instagram account where I sell jewelry and crochet stuff and comment on how I run a fake business.

I sent the chats and their website to my friends so they can also give them reviews/report them and they are now replying to them(my friends) saying I SCAMMED THEM(maf) OF ALMOST 10000 and they CAUGHT ME and now I'm doing this for some unapparent reason.

They have also used my phone number to log in to other websites and I have been getting a lot of OTPs they have been placing several orders from different sources on my Amazon account(placing orders of up to 13000)

And then he sent messages threatening to come to my house if I didn't take down the reviews. What does this threat imply? Coming to my house to do what? Makes me wonder how they have 4.7 reviews. This is just abysmal that as a customer I am not allowed to write a review.

It has been a month and I still haven't received my refund.