SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I Fucked Up Big Time: Shame on me that I harassed a girl and but thanks to her that she saved my life. And am SUPER Sorry to HER! and other people.
DATE: 2019-11-10
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dueakf/i_fucked_up_big_time_shame_on_me_that_i_harassed/

--- POST TEXT ---

tl,dr; Harassed a girl under spell of mental disorder, gave trauma and stress to people but they saved my life. I am going to hell for this.

I Own this SHIT. AM ASHAMED and Probably should have been jailed. But this girl and other people saved not only my life but my dignity thanks to her.

I fucked up few months of life of lots of people due to my depression. This is a throwaway account and I am hiding the real identity of the girl but revealing my initials. I don't know if I should write the events in details and so openly but am trying to detail events.

Me: My family comes from a conservative Indian background and so I have never been so much in touch with girls from outside my family. Not every girl attracts me and I kind of maintain the decorum and limits while talking with any person. Its kind of basic courtesy and manner that my family has taught. One major issue is that I was sexually abused and bullied as a child by few people from outside family and this kind of has made me mentally sick. You can say depressed or whatever. I am coping up with it. Now I am an adult and work in a private company. You can call me SA-LA! I deserve to be scorned and probably abused now.

Her: So I met this nice girl on a dating app. We clicked and shared few months of time chatting and caring. I kind of slowly fell for her. We talked shits about studies and bitched about life too. I kind of loved her but without any sort of sexual feelings. You can say I never sexually liked her honestly and got bonded. She maintained some gaps in the conversation and I kind of always respected.

Gaps: So there were few spells of silences in our conversations. It was all in all healthy conversation gaps.

The FUCK Up: So after few months of chatting, I kind of started keeping busy with life and drifted. We stopped the conversation and we stopped the chatting on whatsapp and all. But being busy meant I remained indoor a lot of time. I started getting deficient in lots of Vitamins and other things. It started showing on my mental health. I started getting Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Spells. I kind of started pestering the girl on her Insta and other accounts to talk. My mind always thought why isn't she responding and I tried more to talk the more she ignored. I started stalking her on many other platforms. It became a never ending loop.

The Probable Cyber Compalint and My SHITTY Days: So I kind of became Attention Deficit (ADHD). In office time I became very crappy and hardly was able to co-ordinate with my work. It became a routine and I kind of pestered her for 3 months before she probably plugged Cyber Cell people and I kind of became trapped in this endless spiral. I used to chat god-knows-what shit and these people and she tolerated my SHIT! for almost 3 months!. I used to behave abnormally and talk shits. I kind of became the victim of my own mind. It was an endless spiral, I started sending my pics and audios and behave like psychos. It kind of fills horror in my head still now while writing it. My office colleagues started asking for me to take some break.

The Tripping Point: So while talking craps I kind of brought 'sex' in the topic and these people started asking for sexually explicit contents, through some different ids. In a major lapse of judgement under mental imbalance I shared sexual content (pics, audios, videos). Before I could gain my senses it was already late. it started another kind of guilt-trip inside my head.

After AFFECTS: After sharing my explicit content I kind of became obsessed for knowing who the F\*\*\* asked me these content. I kind of became suicidal with horrible behavior. I started assuming that the girl has asked me the content and I started abusing her on audios. It was some real SHIT! I didn't sleep for days and my mother was scared but didn't dare to ask whats wrong. I cried, cried and just cried non-stop with spells of laughter. INSANE!

The Care They Gave: Even after all this shit they cared for me. I was constantly plugged to my phone. I collected all the evidences to keep as a proof for my mental distress and for the reason of my suicide. I neared suicide once for split seconds and gained senses just before. They coaxed me to show to doctors and after 2-3 days I got the hints though pics.

The After Super Guilt: I kind of went to the hospital after the whole saga and shown a doctor. I consulted few other people as well and am under medication. I have taken long spell of off from work for making my mind normal. But I feel super guilty. Am SUPER SORRY, I gave trauma to all the people involved and am THANKFUL to everyone for saving my life.

Am SUPER SORRY to everyone for the Agony and Trauma I caused! Am FILLED with REMORSE.

(I have promised to myself I will never let this shit happen in life ever again).