Dear friend, i am raising a topic thats needed to be discussed... There are so many dispute found concerning with legitimacy of sunita network pvt ltd based noida, but one thing is missing - if they are fake, how can they expand thier business even a lot of complaints raised by guys like shaikh, ahmed found on iccf... And i am attaching proof of thier complaint in thier own words... So kindly snpl, u shoul take a good stand to resolve the issue... Its all about your name n fame... I think snpl u know much better than me what importance of reputation as well complaints on this or any other similar site for a company like stands? 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 1/10 Log in register Submit complaint Search company or product Sunita networks private limited noida India, Delhi Tweet 0 Consumer complaints and reviews about sunita networks private limited noida Abhikit jul 14, 2015 Sunita network fraud nexus Dear all I am a victim of fraud done by the sunita network noida. It is completely fraud company. I would like to tell you the incident happen with me and aspect reply from the Mastermind mr. Tridev vadera urf aakash. First of all on telephonic conversation they told me the upfront of india mart project (Copy past project) they assign me the Project by using fake name of india mart in 30000 but when i went to there office they demand me 50000 they said that fee increased by there wander they canot do Any thing, if you travel from jaipur to noida for sign up project you suppose to take project by paying them any ways after bargaining they are ready to give me by Upfront of 35000/then Again fake thing they do with me they present mr. Harpreet singh in front of me as a director and harpreet signed me all document (Which is Also fake) now days harpreet is eloped and mr. Harsh rana is taking place of fake director. During the project running time period trived vadhera urf aakash did Almost all cheating and fraud with me mentioned in above posts by other victimes thats way i stopped business after 45 Months as i lost 5lacks in the same project and With sunita network. So guys be cautious and aware fraud done by these kind of companies and nexus operated by tridev type masterminds. And aakas by clarifying any thingthink And writing your garbage think 1000 time before writing. I know, you will definitely write some [censored] but think if 100s of people Writing against you then we are not fool and in this world sunita network is not the only company on which we will spend our precious time to writing against you and Your fake company. And one more thing i would like to tell there is no existence of there registered office in delhi. So ministry of corporate affairs i request kindly take action against this Company and check its validity, and not found according to norms kindly shut down to protect innocents... Thanks Rawan m jul 3, 2015 Choor company sunita network pvt. Ltd Sunita network pvt. Ltd se koi bhi koi data entry process mat lena. Ye logo ke sath fraud kar rhe hai. Sab log jo jo process liye hai. Crime branch me complaints kerke ye company band krao. Jald se jald nhi to isi tareke se logo ko lootte rhege Rawan m jul 3, 2015 Total fraud company sunita network pvt. Ltd, Total fraud company sunita network pvt. Ltd, They don't have any process, they have an it team who are engaged in making fake softwares for accuracy and login log out. Rahul tondon (It head) is right hand of Tridev vadhera urf akash (Cheater) who always gives ideas to make a new software for clients to cheat in a new way Koi group of companies nhi hai ye Clients ko attract karne ke liye ye sab inke pet dialogues hain The biggest thing, inke good clients wo hain jinhe ye paise de kar reference bulwate hain They dont have any purity and they assemble purodrops what a big joke they are not manufacturing company Recommend 0 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 2/10 Idhar ka maal udhar karna kaam hai ink Sunita network maha fraud company Sunita network fraud company Sunita network fraud company Sale sab mile huye h Ye aor inki puri team aor sari companies Sale chooooor h Clients ka paisa le k use hi topi pehnate h Ek na ek din inhe inki aukaat zaroor pata chalegi Sale gareebo ko sapna dikha k khud ameer ho rahe h Inke jitne hi process h sab ke sab bakwaas h Sab me accuracy ka jhamela h Ye to ye inke jaise aor bhi h Noida aor delhi me Ye padhe likhe choor h Inka kaam hi yehi h Gareb ki jeb khali karna Inka kya h Ye paisa maar k beth jayenge Client kuch nahi kar pata Sale chewier sunita network wale stab k sab choooor h Sunita network Jain1 jul 3, 2015 Sunita network pvt ltd as fraud always All the complaints are true regarding sunita network pvt ltd. They all are doing only fraud with clients and they are only mean to grab money from clients and then they Don't have any responsibility for their clients. They don't have any process, they have an it team who are engaged in making fake softwares for accuracy and login log out. Rahul tondon (It head) is right hand of Tridev vadhera urf akash (Cheater) who always gives ideas to make a new software for clients to cheat in a new way Koi group of companies nhi hai ye Clients ko attract karne ke liye ye sab inke pet dialogues hain The biggest thing, inke good clients wo hain jinhe ye paise de kar reference bulwate hain 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 3/10 They dont have any purity and they assemble purodrops what a big joke they are not manufacturing company Idhar ka maal udhar karna kaam hai inka "chor akash ki chor company sunita network pvt ltd" Snpl jul 2, 2015 Important advisory Hello, We have important information to share. It has come to our knowledge that some people are sharing some fake and irrelevant comments about sunita network pvt ltd and trying to misguide our clients While we condemn such activity and regret the inconvenience caused to our customers. We would like to inform you that sunita network pvt ltd adheres to all compliance related statutory regulations with regard to plying in any part of india. Therefore we advise our customers to exercise caution regarding such fake and misguiding comments. In case of any query and doubt please feel free to reach out to our head office for an face to face doubts clearing session Regards Sunita network pvt ltd Another victim007 jul 1, 2015 Reply to tk vadhera Given data Suuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk_ choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk_ choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk_ choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk_ choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk choouuooooor_ Haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuouunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk+ choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk $choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuouunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk %choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Suuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk *choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Ssuuuunitta_% niettwuorrrkkk _choouuooooor_haiiiiieeeaaa +_%$/, Entered data: Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Account assistant / accountant /... Paperchase accountancy india private limited b.com, ca, ca inter, m.com account... Monster india 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 4/10 Sunita network chooooor hai Sunita network chooooor hai Mr. Tk vadhera can you please tell me accuracy of this sentence is 100% accurate or not? You know very well it is 100% accurate. Clients ka paisa maar maar ke tune company run kari h In your company only harsh rana sir is very kind hearted person. Thank god, After this work done: Surprise: Reply form technical team sunita network Total working data: 10 Data rejected. Jai shri raam Jai sita raam Tkvadhera jul 1, 2015 Reply of victim007 Hey another victim007 Are you really came across with any issue by our company or it is just a fake exercise to defame sunita network private limited?? I saw same complaint for one of other organization (Ascent international services/ascent bpo) in same vertical proof is attached I wanted to know are you really that much free to post complaints here or getting paid by any other of our competitor?? Its my last warning to you if you are this much confident (About sunita network private limited and ascent international) then why don’t you coming frankly among the Viewers with your contact detail. See as an md i don’t have this much time to continuously revert you. If you have really an issue then please visit us in our office. Seriously i think you are really much free to post free complaints Note:if Any victim or vendor seriously have problem please visit our office Regards Sunita network [protected] Another victim007 jul 1, 2015 Sunita network fraud company Saley chutiye rahul pet ho na tum uske Is liye aise bol rahe ho Khud ki pocket se paise jis din jayenge Grand fat k hate me aa jayegi Devender sharma jul 1, 2015 Reply comment of neha goswami Hello sunita networks team Kind attention : neha goswami 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 5/10 As being one of director and promoter of ascent international services i love to have review of our company so that we can improve our services. As being in same Vertical we are both are player here i wont say who is big or who is below or tiny. I notices your reply in which you have mentioned such a statement that we are doing fraud, i must say that ascent international services or ascent bpo services pvt. Ltd. (Whose directors are devender sharma and akhil singh) never had any agreement or never outsourced any project/assignment/task for sunita networks private Limited I want you to show proof of it either delete that comment and upload a apology for trying to defame ascent international services otherwise it may lead us To take necessary steps accordingly Regards : Devender sharma Ascent international services / ascent bpo Ph : [protected] Devender sharma jul 1, 2015 Reply comment of sunita networks in mentioned ascent internationals name Hello sunita networks team As being one of director and promoter of ascent international services i love to have review of our company so that we can improve our services. As being in same Vertical we are both are player here i wont say who is big or who is below or tiny. I notices your reply in which you have mentioned such a statement that we are doing fraud, i must say that ascent international services or ascent bpo services pvt. Ltd. (Whose directors are devender sharma and akhil singh) never had any agreement or never outsourced any project/assignment/task for sunita networks private Limited I want you to show proof of it either delete that comment and upload a apology for trying to defame ascent international services Regards : Devender sharma Ascent international services / ascent bpo Another victim007 jul 1, 2015 Sunita network fraud company Sunita network fraud company Sale sab mile huye h Ye aor inki puri team aor sari companies Sale chooooor h Clients ka paisa le k use hi topi pehnate h Ek na ek din inhe inki aukaat zaroor pata chalegi Sale gareebo ko sapna dikha k khud ameer ho rahe h Inke jitne hi process h sab ke sab bakwaas h Sab me accuracy ka jhamela h Ye to ye inke jaise aor bhi h Noida aor delhi me Ye padhe likhe choor h Inka kaam hi yehi h Gareb ki jeb khali karna 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 6/10 Inka kya h Ye paisa maar k beth jayenge Client kuch nahi kar pata Sale chewier sunita network wale stab k sab choooor h Rajrawat jun 29, 2015 Sunta network pvt ltd total fraud company Hello to every one who are looking for data entry project/non voice project. I took the data entry project name "copy paste" from the company name sunita network private limited, by paying the processing fees for the contract period of 11 Months. The director of this firm mr. T. K vadhera (Akash) and hanish arora will please you like allowing the granules to bird to get them in net. Like payout of this project is Good, we have many centers running in delhi and outside meanwhile they are getting their payment on time. This is a registered company you can check on mca and So on... Even they showed me their bank statement (Axis bank). But once anyone look to their bank statement it is visible that they made the payment for particular project but How you analyses for how many seats they are providing this amount, same happened to myself. Transfer 0f 15k might be for 10 seats who knows unless you verify with that center. I verified that but after paying for the project. Overall company is running on processing fees. So i suggest to every one be careful in future while having project from snpl, c69, Basement, sec58, Noida Rajrawat jun 29, 2015 Fake data entry company I am raj rawat ma 5 id sunita network se liya or 3 month se lagatar kam kar ha hu 60 days above ho gaye abhi tak koi bhi data accept nahi hua hai jo sahi bhi hai Use ye log reject kar dete hai inka to profit ho jata hai likin hum jaise log ka loss ho jata hai. Rs: 33, 000 ki ek id 30, 000*5 =1, 50000 lakh ki id li but ek rupya nahi mila 3 lakh ka mere loss ho gaya inka to profit ho jata ha. Kyonki ye jo data reject kar te hai usi ko Sahi kar ke aage bhej dete hai inko us data ki payment mil jati ha. Or hamara data reject kar ke payment 0 kar dete ha. Hi frien koi bhi sunits network se koi bhi process nahi lena ye total fraud company hai jahan paise diye to fas jaoge islye iske khilap fir kar ke company band kardo Nahi to ye sabko lootte rahenge. Nehagoswami jun 26, 2015 Reply to mr. Armaan Mr. Armaan, For your information, let me tell you that you are not directly signed up with sunita network pvt. Ltd. You came in touch with copy paste project by ascent bpo/ ascent international. They people took the franchise from us. And everytime, we are sending qc reports, we are not sending it directly to you. We send it to ascent bpo/ ascent international, then they forward the same To you and to the clients who are signed up by them. This is applicable for the payments as well. And i literally can't believe that your data is completely rejected from past 2 months. Because if it is so, then your centre might get terminated. But if you are currently working on the same, then there is something wrong going on. We are providing the payment of yours to ascent bpo/ ascent international, but if they aren't giving that to you, then this is not our fault. But still i am advising you to come down to our office and just discuss it face to face besides making such wrong comments about our company. Because we don't stop The payment of any of our clients. 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 7/10 And also, please recheck whether you are executing the project as per the guidelines or not, or are you properly get training on the same, because many of our clients Are making really good payments every month with the same data. Hope this can resolve your complaints. Regards Sunita network pvt. Ltd. Tkvadhera may 27, 2015 Revert of last post posted by tieper If you are this much confident then why don’t you coming frankly among the viewers with your contact detail. See as an md i don’t have this much time to continuously Revert you. If you have really an issue then please visit us in our office. In reference of projects whether it is mi or cp. In copy paste work these clause is clearly mentioned that data will be given by third party. However we have many clients who are earning 1k per month for one system And 20k for one system too, it just mean that its up to you that how properly your candidate works. I would like to suggest you that about data distribution, you should Think technically or you should consult to any technical expert that how it would be possible to give a particular data to particular client as the main client is getting or Purchasing the data in a bulk and how would we came to know that data is good or bad. It can be possible only if in the case when we open each data (Url), that is not Possible for us. If we are cheating with our clients and as you said that our company is running on the processing fees only, so i would like to give an example for your kind Information: For example: as per your statement that we are categorizing the data by our own then if we are working over 4k plus vendor in india that means on an average we Have to categorize 4crores of data per day which is not possible et all. As we knows that today we use to purchase the data just for an example if you will purchase one Url even in 1paisa (Which is not possible in today’s scenario) then the total amount for 4 crore data would be 4 lakh. It means that we are expensing 4lakh day. Then How you can say that we are gaining the processing fees for our own profit. As it is quite logical that if we are making the payment more than the amt. We are taking as Processing fees each month that can not be equal to generated amt. By all of the client working with us. In medical insurance project if client paying 25000 as a business fee then they are getting the 100% payment i. E. Upto 2lakh per month even in the first month billing. As i told you last time also that the company is running on processing fees is absolutely wrong. We are not a single company, we are a group of companies. We also Deal in it sector, manufacturing sector and we have some big clients, for whom we work. We have our own flagship brand in water purifier, the purodrops. We are Running a classified site bechdaalo.com and have a b2b service provider platform traderzplanet.com. The outsourcing of bpo, kpo, data entry projects i a small part of Our enterprise. Now i don’t think so that there is any need to define the things mentioned above as every company is having number of clients with good and bad experience. It's Impossible for any organization even your company also to retain happy customers. Some people want extraordinary output by investing minimum, they seem Unsatisfied. You should consider our lots of satisfied customers by contacting and visiting them. From :t K vadhera Tieper may 27, 2015 Reply of justification by director Hi, as you (Tk vadhera) said we have data in bulk and we don't have any detail which data is genuine. Okay. Your data is set in such a way that center could not billed more payment. Then how come the datas are continuously not fall under category (Terms &, condition) out of 1, 000 data, zero working records. What does this mean? Is this a data extraction? Totally wrong statements given by mr. T k vadhera. If data would be fine then payment will good. Or if your vendor is not providing you good data then why do you blame just stop this process or switch the vendor (Data). "same is medical insurance project. This process had been running in delhi as well as in u. P for more than a years with many centers. Assume that population of age 60+ in u. S. (35k insurance people data target for 10pc in month). If there are 10 such centers means 3, 50, 000 u. S 60+age people Records per month. 35 lac in a years. But they claims that 30+ such centers are running in and around delhi. Imagine from where they bring the datas. This is also same running on processing fees. I will explain you guys what exactly they do. They will take processing fees, give you s/w and data to work on that. Pay you for your job. This payment is very much low what you have paid comparatively. If you ask anything they reply sir we have paid you what you worked. Okay. Improve your work. Better try for next month billing. Why they pay you because to get new associates. Same process with them also. 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 8/10 Again when you (Associate) ask them for data. First of all they do not reply for 2 to 3 days busy in meetings or just ignore likewise anyway will say you by this day/date You can work. Your data has been reset/refreshed/new data been loaded. You imagine 1.5lacs for 10 seats (Negotiable) Payment30k To 40k1st Month (10 pc) 10 to11k2nd Month. (10 pc) Same as 3rd month. How long you pay your employee from your pocket. Would you continue for 4th month.? I guess no. Between these months they will show this payment to other party that we are making payments to centers. We have successfully running centers. Around 60 to 70k you (Business associate) got by payment by sunita net. Overall their profit from one associatejust Calculate??? Think twice before sign up sunita network pvt. Ltd. *associatewho Took this project from sunita network pvt. Ltd. Tkvadhera may 15, 2015 Reply of complaint Hi, This is t k vadhera and i am the director of the sunita network pvt. Ltd., noida. I see that you have a lot of complaints with us, mr. Or ms. Or whatever you are tieper. I will solve your issues. You are saying that we stop genuine data but for your information i would like to tell that we have data in bulk and we don't have any detail which data is genuine. The Amount you get depends on your working which are error free. There are numerous clients are working on same data and are happy with our services and they are Earning lacs or thousands rupees as payment depending on their work performance with same data. We have proofs and reference numbers and the second thing you Are saying that i don't pick calls is wrong. As a director i am quite busy with clients and there may be some occasion when i am unable to pick call. But you have choice To call our another director mr. Harsh rana and if they are also not available then you can contact our technical support number. If still anyone is not picking your call Then you have address of the company, you are free to visit our company anytime and can tell your problem to us. We or our any representative would be there who Will listen and tell you the ways to improve your work performance with bad data also. And last thing which you said that the company is running on processing fees is absolutely wrong. We are not a single company, we are a group of companies. We also Deal in it sector, manufacturing sector and we have some big clients, for whom we work. We have our own flagship brand in water purifier, the purodrops. We are Running a classified site bechdaalo.com and have a b2b service provider platform traderzplanet.com. The outsourcing of bpo, kpo, data entry projects i a small part of Our enterprise. It would be better if you come our office, get training and do good work. If still you have any issue, then you can contact me on my number. I would just say that we are not fooling anyone, we are giving you a chance to make your career. Come to our office, understand our process and if you are okay with it Then start working with us. Tieper may 8, 2015 Fake data entry services Hello to every one who are looking for data entry project/non voice project. I took the data entry project name"copy paste" from the company name sunita network private limited, by paying the processing fees for the contract period of 11 Months. The director of this firm mr. T. K vadhera (Akash) and hanish arora will please you like allowing the granules to bird to get them in net. Like payout of this project is Good, we have many centers running in delhi and outside meanwhile they are getting their payment on time. This is a registered company you can check on mca and So on... Even they showed me their bank statement (Axis bank). But once anyone look to their bank statement it is visible that they made the payment for particular project but How you analyses for how many seats they are providing this amount, same happened to myself. Transfer 0f 15k might be for 10 seats who knows unless you verify with that center. I verified that but after paying for the project. Overall company is running on processing fees. 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 9/10 So i suggest to every one be careful in future while having project from snpl, c69, Basement, sec58, Noida. Previous 1 2 next Complaint registration form Information of the company you are complaining about Subject of complaint City (Optional) Complaint details Attach photos (Optional) choose file no file chosen Confirmation code Submit Share this site with others Tweet 3.1k Recently updated complaints Paytm solutions Your problem 91 026410 44 Dear customer we available on 91 026410 44 this is a... Paytm.com djfjvc Any complaint any customer care online customer care... Tlc insurance india pvt. Ltd my Policy detiles Pls send me my policy details. Name : ganapathy... Sbi buddy wallet sbi.. ... Mnb Any complaint any customer care online customer care... 11k Like 3/2/2017 sunita networks private limited noida complaints http://www.complaintboard.in/complaintsreviews/ Sunitanetworksprivatelimitednoidal385460/ Page/2 10/10 Online sbi dye Online customer care number 84.05 94 59 29.84.05... Flipkart.com motorola Charger is missing Sir, the motorola charger is missing. The item is refund... Freecharge mobile Recharge I was doing a recharge into my customer's mobile no... Complaints | submit complaint | view full list of companies | latest complaints | terms o[censored]se | privacy policy | contact us © indian complaint board forum Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)