SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Warning: Beware of Mafia Scam Targeting Homeowners in Bangalore!
DATE: 2024-02-13
SCORE: 94
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1apzpfn/warning_beware_of_mafia_scam_targeting_homeowners/

--- POST TEXT ---

Attention fellow Bangaloreans,

I urge you to be cautious of a nefarious scam plaguing our city's neighborhoods. Landowners offering their homes for rent involving brokers are falling victim to extortion tactics orchestrated by local goons and rowdies.

Here's how the scheme unfolds: unsuspecting homeowners receive token advances from individuals(we were forced to take 5k without background check as they would return withj their family members to talk), often women, posing as prospective tenants. Later, these same individuals return accompanied by thugs, claiming the need for immediate occupancy and stirring up fabricated issues.

Subsequently, the goons, shielded by the patronage of local politicians(party funds) and police(hand in glove), descend upon the property, demanding exorbitant money under the threat of violence.

 Homeowners are coerced into settling for inflated amounts, often exceeding one lakh rupees, or face dire consequences.

As a long-time resident(30yrs) of Bangalore, I share in the frustration and disillusionment with the state of affairs. 

Regardless of which political party holds power, it is evident that the system has failed to protect its citizens from such criminal exploitation.(THE SYSTEM IS THE PROBLEM)

Regrettably, this ordeal has reached a point where even our children are not spared from threats.( I Would take up arms if need be for protecting my family if need be)

 It is indeed disheartening to witness our beloved country succumb to the grips of white-collar mafias.(era of corporate Mafia)

In light of these distressing circumstances, I am contemplating leaving my homeland for the safety and well-being of my family.( Iam a Dr with Honours and awards- Hard earned repute from a middle class with 1 family home)

 However, I implore fellow residents to unite and raise our voices against such injustices.
(It will be you or someone you know tomorrow)

Together, we can strive for a safer and more just society.(but im sure this is a call as big as a revolution that will be unheard and jst gain a few comments here for my frustration and rant as i have to leave my home,my land and plan an Exodous)

Hope i return to my hometown oneday when It is time for action, accountability, and the restoration of trust in our institutions.!!

Stay vigilant, stay safe.

P.S kind request no to rag any officers or social workers i guess they are already know these issues but can do very little as this rot is very deep nd its impossible right now for me to reveal further details.

This is just one scam in our quest to own a home in our city( went thorugh alot cant fight every battle when ur family is at stake)

Wish my INIDA i.e BHARAT will truly be independent from its true oppressors!

Superdoc
Signing out.