SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: HELP!! Unprofessional &amp; Unfair office politics!!
DATE: 2025-01-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1hxhrw1/help_unprofessional_unfair_office_politics/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR at end, but i request you to read the entire post for better clarity. 
I joined a company as a Financial Reporter in Delhi back in April 2024, completed my probation, and got an offer letter as a permanent employee. My manager never really explained to me the details of whatever files I worked on, but simply just told me the steps I need to follow for my tasks. And I did, like a Robot. As a result I ended up getting confused and sometimes made a mistake or two (which didn't impact my work, just led me to start over). Whenever I asked a doubt, I was mocked in front of the entire staff (colleagues, managers, senior manager, support staff) calling me names like "COVID passout batch" etc, and my mistakes were publically announced and laughed at. NONE OF IT HAPPENED WITH ANY OTHER EMPLOYEE. I handled tasks outside of my profile as well, juggling between Reporting, Banking, Accounting and Quality control on a daily basis. Never said NO to any task, despite it being given right when I was about to leave for home (Office ends at 6.30, hourlong tasks were given at 6.15-20)

Now since I had not been briefed through the data I was using, I made a big mistake (SEPTEMBER). I prepared reports for some clients but ended up using previous month's data in a report instead of the updated one. Long story short, I heard an earfull from my manager, senior manager, and HR.
The HR went as far as saying that I leaked confidential financial information and my salary details with other colleagues (which i never did. Ik how important data confidentiality is)

Since then I made no mistake in any work I was given. Made sure to confirm anything I had a doubt in. Last month (19 DEC) my team was abruptly changed to Bank reconciliation and Bookings. In a good spirit, i took up that profile and worked hard. It's been only 20 days in the profile (incl Sat-Sun, festivals) and I'm already handling 4 new tasks.... My new manager told me she'll assign me few more regular tasks tomorrow...

Meanwhile today the HR and the Director randomly held a meeting with me, rebuked me for the Reporting related mistake I did in September. Said my manager doesn't trust me to do my work correctly and that I should either resign or they'll change my team to SALES (they know I am not interested in sales, and infact anyone who joins that team leaves within 1-2 months coz of toxic manager (HR handles the sales team))... So that's just an excuse to pressure me into resigning. 

P.s. Another colleague with Neurological health condition (already treated), faced the same "Resign or Switch" warning. 

NOTE:-
1. In the last 20 days since my team changed, I worked overtime every day, I skipped lunch some days to complete my tasks on time, made No mistake, helped out others in my new team with their tasks.
2. Sometimes they said my manager doesn't trust me to work correctly, other times randomly brought up my health condition.... I HAVE TOURETTE'S SYNDROME!! Brought it up saying it'll affect my work etc. 
3. I made a list of tasks that I handled, and within just these 8 months, I've been assigned 23+ daily/weekly/monthly tasks, (not counting Ad-Hoc tasks, which itself would be over 10).

What should I do?

TLDR:- Manager didn't explain tasks, just told me steps to follow (Reporting). Mocked and announced publically whenever I made any mistake. In over 8 months since April, made 1 big mistake in Sept, got scolded by Mgr, changed my profile to banking as a punishment. Now both HR and Director want me to resign or join sales team because they don't trust me with data/New mgr supposedly doesn't have confidence in me as per HR (while Mgr said she is gonna assign me more tasks tomorrow onwards).. got called names, blamed for leaking Financial info (never did, no proof either). Discriminated coz of my chronic health condition. Not a new thing btw!!