SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Tonique website online scam
DATE: 2023-01-03
SCORE: 108
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/102168t/tonique_website_online_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

This incident happened with my sister on 2nd October, 2022. She and her friend wanted to get alcohol but since it being a dry day, they couldn't. Later, the friend suggested that they check online. In the Google search results a website for the renowned alcohol store in Bangalore, Tonique appeared and they got a number through it and called it. The guy asked them to text on whatsapp and upon being asked what is available he said everything, you just name it(sus, I know). They ordered a bottle of wine, paid for it but the guy used the infamous "Send x amount of money for this machine code" trick on them. Sadly, they got manipulated and my sister got scammed of Rs 1 lakh. The guy kept insisting that "Madam Tonique store hai 3 floor ka koi sabji thodi bech rahe hain jaldi paise bhejo" (Madam this is Tonique store that has 3 floors, we're not selling vegetables here. Send the money asap). This entire exchange between them is way too long, I'm just putting up an executive summary here.The next day they visited the Tonique store and narrated the incident to the manager who calmly informed them that the website has been hacked. He also claimed that they have it written on their store that they don't do online deliveries(there was a tiny tiny poster about this outside the store that they found upon inspecting closely). The ridiculous part is that the website was up for several days after this incident and no one in this so called 'huge alcohol store' bothered to take it down or get it taken down. We filed a complaint to the Blr police and the cyber department but to no avail. The police started blaming my sister and said that she should have been more careful with these things. There were several instances when she had to go to the police station alone and the police didn't take her seriously at all as she was the only woman there and were just laughing amongst themselves. After a lot of visits to the station and calling for an update the police said that the Tonique people had given out an ad in the newspaper about their website being hacked and she really should have been more wary of trusting a phone number from Google. Right now, the case is just shut cold and we still haven't recovered from the trauma. We do understand that getting manipulated was our fault to some extent but we're unable to understand why the police isn't helping.

Does anyone have any suggestions as to what we should be doing next? We have tried tweeting and tagging the police and cyber department but it didn't get enough reach. We're traumatized about the police not being helpful and the store refusing to take any responsibility. Please, any help is appreciated. Thanks in advance!

Edit : We're now aware that alcohol delivery is illegal in Karnataka, we weren't at that time. 
I had put this up because I had recently spotted a lot of online scam related posts in this sub so I wondered if I could get some insights. Thanks to everyone who took the time to read it and comment!