I have owned Scorpio SUV for the past 11 years. I am a retired officer from IAF. I purchased my third Scorpio SUV on 09 Dec 2014 from Sterling Motors, Gurgaon. All periodic service of the SUV has been done I have been getting my SUV serviced from Sterling Motors as per laid down mileage. GSP Motor, Gurgaon has opened a service workshop very close to my factory. Since Sterling Motor workshop is far from my factory, I started using the services of GSP Motors workshop located at Khasra No. 685, Village Kapashera, New Delhi-110037. I gave my SUV for AC Servicing and some other problems which I was facing with my vehicle. I was fully satisfied with GSP Motor workshop after this service. My SUV AC stopped cooling on 02 Sept 2018. Since AC system was serviced by GSP Motors, I gave my SUV to their workshop on 02 Sept 2018 for checking and rectification of AC System. I received the vehicle on 04 Sept in the afternoon. on 04 Sept evening, while reversing my SUV, I noticed that the Camera was not working. On 05 Sept, morning I took my SUV to GSP Motors workshop. The vehicle was with the workshop for the hole day and in the evening on 05 Sept I was informed by the workshop manager that SUV camera was defective. On 06 Sept I booked a complaint with Autocop. The engineer from Autocop attended the SUV for camera and informed me that the camera was O.K. However, during the AC system check, its code for activation is deleted. I spoke to Senior Manager of GSP Motor workshop. As per him there is no such code for Scorpio SUV. It is required only for XUV500. I called up toll free number of Mahindra & Mahindra on 07 Sept. I was told by the lady who attended my call that GSP Motor Gurgaon is no more authorized dealer of Mahindra. When I insisted that she was wrong, she checked with some one and said that she was right. However, she told me that someone from Mahindra will call me to confirm whether, GSP Motor in Gurgaon is Mahindra dealer or not. As usual, I did not receive any call from Mahindra. I called Sterling Motors and spoke to them about my problem. I was informed by the engineer from Sterling Motor that the software needs to be updated for activating the camera. I took my SUV to Sterling Motors and in precisely 15 minutes, the camera was working. I am bringing the hole episode to your knowledge to let you know that a dealer of Mahindra, GSP Motor is running a service workshop with unqualified persons and customer care toll free number employees are not trained sufficiently to provide correct information to Mahindra's loyal customers. I hope some corrective action will be taken by Mahindra & Mahindra to prevent its image being sullied due to such incidents.