SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: International Parcel - receiving - UPS Rant - redditgifts
DATE: 2018-03-12
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/83uwly/international_parcel_receiving_ups_rant/

--- POST TEXT ---

I subscribed to redditgifts Awesome Smells and my secret santa shipped me parcel from USA via Amazon. He / She ordered a product for me from Amazon which had direct shipping to India. My secret santa also provided me with the UPS tracking no, which was moving very fast. I was very happy with the courier speed. Today is the promised date of delivery. Since morning 11 am it is showing as out for delivery and till now i havent received it. Since my secret santa didnt have my mobile no, in the consignment only my PAN no seems to have been updated, which my secret santa took later since the Amazon order required my ID proof no, Aadhar or Pan or Passport No. I provided that information to him. Since i was getting worried about my parcel i called UPS and enquired them about the parcel and updated them my Mobile No. (good thinking on my part). My parcel is now just lying in their Office and the delivery status is all fake. I receive call asking my email ID and they send me a long email about KYC which is to be completed for receiving the Courier. I am so pissed off and frustrated, for convenience I gave my Office address and now they were asking me company letterhead letter, i told them that its my personal consignment and since no one is at home, i prefer delivery to Office address. Never knew receiving a simple courier from International would be so tough :(. Last time somewhere in 2010 i ordered a parcel from Dealextreme which was shipped through India post, and it just was lying in my mailbox with no tracking no. THe postman didnt even inform us and it lied in common mailbox of our flat / apartment and luckily i saw it. Had anyone taken it from there ,i could have done nothing. Now have the rules really changed or UPS is doing shit. After I receive my parcel tomorrow i plan to write to UPS USA about the fake delivery status and harassment of customer by their Chennai Office.

Do you have any experience of receiving international courier and doing this KYC? ?? 

THis is email exactly received from UPS:

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

With reference to the aforesaid shipment, we would like to inform your kind office that the mentioned shipment is held pending KYC verification.

 

As per Customs Circular No.9/2010 we require the following documents to proceed further

 

Ø MANDATORY DOCUMENTS:

o Authorization letter in company letter head with sign &amp; seal

o KYC form duly filled with authorized signatory photo along with sign &amp; seal

Ø SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR COMPANY

o Company registration certificate

o PAN allotment letter

o GST Copy

o IEC copy / Tel. bill

o Power of Attorney

o Memorandum &amp; Articles of Association

o TIN / VAT / Excise registration certificate, if available.

 

Ø SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR INDIVIUAL

 

o PAN allotment letter

o ADHAR CARD

 

Any two of the above mentioned supporting documents are to be provided along with the Co. seal &amp; signature.

 

Note: KYC documents is must &amp; mandatory, without KYC we can’t do further clearance process.

For supporting documents to be submitted, please refer attached word document, “KYC requirements Customs”.

For shipments consigned to and individual or in a personal name any 2 supporting documents. For companies/corporations, andy 3 supporting documents.

Same document cannot be used for both the proofs. Shipment cannot be cleared if we receive incomplete documents

At Your Service

 

Note: Please be informed, As per new amendment in Section 46 &amp; 47 of Customs Act, 1962 all Bill of Entry have to be filed in Customs within 24 hrs. of Flight/Vessel arrival in to India. Any shipment not filed within stipulated timelines will be subject to payment of penalty @ of Rs.5000/- per day (initial 3 days), Rs. 10,000/- per day (4th day onwards).

In this regard, we request you to provide requisite documents to avoid any fine and penalties for late filing charges.

As per amendment in section 47 applicable duty have to be paid within 24 hrs. of filing of Bill of entry else 15% (per annum) interest will be charged.