SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: This degraded way too fast 
DATE: 2024-10-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gex4pe/this_degraded_way_too_fast/

--- POST TEXT ---

So yesterday, a girl named Emmy Ross texted me on telegram asking me if I am interested about an info. I automatically knew that it was a scam because of the profile picture. I wanted to know where this will bring us. So I said yes. She said that I need to screenshot me following a professional account on Instagram. I did after asking her about what kind of company (trivial marketing smth) iis it etc. I searched the company and it exists etc. Emmy said that I am getting paid 20$us now for the screenshot and about 200 to 300$ everyday I complete the task. 

I asked her the profile picture and she said that it was her etc, I searched for the pic online and saw the exact ones multiple places on the web, I said I won't believe you if you don't send a real one. Making me waste time she sent me other fakes ones. Anyways I said that I didn't care and won't force for the pic, sonI continued the convo with her. She sent me the contact of another person that will pay me called Victoria. I gave to her the code that Emmy sent me to get "my reward", after she asked what crypto exchange I used. 

I told her the ones that I have used in the past and Victoria said that I need to send her my crypto address. Ofc I did NOT send her mine but I sent her a random valid crypto found on the web. 
Victoria said after a while that it was a fraudulent adress and I wanted to laugh a little more with them...

Today after receiving no answer from her, I checked telegram to look see what happening, and I saw that she erased the convos history. I texted her to ask why and she sent me a FBI ID (on image). It looks fake to my eyes but anyway I said that I am not scared about it l and instead they will find "you two" with the scam tried. Seems like I hit a nerve cuz she and Emmy started asked me if I was a hacker and Victoria was insulting my mom and to conclude (after I said that they weren't raised well) Victoria sent me a videos of some Asian people cutting other people, neck, body etc not censored. 

* I taught they were Indian because I have been receiving Indians scams for quite a while now, not that I have no problems with Indians. Those people comes from California they said.

* I also screenshoted the videos they sent me, but because I was in public I couldn't record. I won't send it here because it's way to graphical for some user.