SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Pretty sure I'm in the midst of falling for an employment scam, and it seems fairly new so PLEASE watch out because I didn't find anything about it on Reddit
DATE: 2020-01-07
SCORE: 129
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/elctdz/pretty_sure_im_in_the_midst_of_falling_for_an/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, I've been in the market for a job. I have responsibility in two different places so I've been looking for a remote job. I started looking on remote websites and have come across a company called CarolineLaBass Health Care based in Aurora, CO. The offer was for a virtual assistant position at $25/hr and $20 per hour for training. It appears to be a company that does elderly care. There is a website and an address and many many many job postings for virtual assistants and the like on many job sites. I think there's even some on non-remote websites asking for RNAs etc. However, when you go onto the company's website, all you see is stock photos and generic reviews from people with fake names like "Jennifer J.", "John D.", and "Jane S." Any sort of elderly care company's website that you go to has pictures of ACTUAL people at the ACTUAL place and ACTUAL testimonials.

 [https://carolinelabasshealthcare.com/](https://carolinelabasshealthcare.com/) 

Anyway, on the job website that I went to, it instructed me to apply by sending my resume to an email address and saying that I was interested in the position. Kinda weird, but okay. So I did. Didn't hear anything back for a couple weeks, but yesterday I got a response at around 5pm from an email address called ["info@carolinelabasshealth.com](mailto:%22info@carolinelabasshealth.com)" which seemed legit. The format of the email was even more legit. I've worked at health care offices before and that was the exact format that they use. Anyway, the email said that the head of HR wanted to interview me. I needed to just add them on Google Hangouts and wait for them to respond. I did that almost immediately and got a response from the person.

This lady claimed her name was Annie S\*\*\*\*\*\*\* and then she gave me a bio of herself. 
"To start with i am Mrs Annie S I received my  Bachelor of Psychology degree from \[an accredited\] University. I also studied accounting at the University of \[an actual place\]. i was made chief human resources officer, on July 1, 2016.. Everything i have accomplished in life has been on my own. I am very energetic and very driven to better my life. I give 150% on everything I do." 
So along with the awkwardness of the message, and the fact that it has some grammatical errors, this entire interview was conducted through Google Hangouts via message. Suspicious, but I was eager anyway.

Almost every response had some sort of mistake in it. I figured that it was maybe because she was older and wasn't used to messaging? But, if it's a professional interview..well...yeah. Also the message came from a random gmail account. She apologized and said that the interview process wasn't as professional as it could be, but she believed in using present day technology to conduct business? There wasn't really much that was super suspicious about the interview itself. She asked general questions you'd hear anywhere, and she even asked some that were specific to accounting. She gave me a long description of the job and asked if I could do it, etc. It all seemed fine. They never asked for anything beyond my name, cell phone number, and address. But then my boyfriend looked at it and got a bit suspicious. Why were they conducting a professional interview over chat? Why not do at least a phone call or a video chat? I've had remote jobs in college before, and yeah I was in a conference call with the trainer and several other employees. She didn't even mention considering me, it was basically like "alright you have the job." It was then that I had an awful feeling in my stomach. I asked her why it had to be conducted this way, and the fact that this was pretty weird, and if I would be actually speaking to anyone from the company. This is what was said:

"Sure you have nothing to worry about calling, by tomorrow morning a phone call will be placed to you by the admin about your application and interview update.. "

Me: "Okay, sounds good. Should I expect a Colorado number to be contacting me?"

"Sure, by tomorrow morning.. "

And then that was when she mentioned the whole " Before you start working, you will recieve a payment ,you will use this payment to set up your mini office by purchasing accounting softwares plus the shippng logistics,cos we will be sending you some equipments you will be needing to start work with, immediately you get this payment you start work."

And that is when the alarm bells really started. I looked up Annie S. and saw if I could get any hits looking even remotely like the picture on her hangouts message, but nope. I started scouring through Reddit for any similar stories I could find, and yep, pretty sure this is a scam. This morning I looked up the address, the phone number, and went back to the company website to see what I could find. The business doesn't exist on Google Maps, or Google for that matter. The only hits you get are the job postings and the bogus website. No employees or contact numbers, etc. I called the number and a guy with either an Indian/South East Asian accent answered, and it sounded very noisy and there was a lot of feedback. "Hello. Good morning."

I hung up immediately. DEFINITELY NOT the greeting one would use with a medical care facility in the United States. You would say "Thank you for calling blah blah blah, my name is blah blah blah." A couple minutes later, the number called me back. I blocked it. Annie messaged me this morning so I said "Hello, thank you for the opportunity but I'm no longer interested," and reported the address. And now I'm here telling you my story. I got really concerned because I couldn't find ANY Reddit posts about this place. I think people need to know about this, because they've been recently popping up on job websites.

So PLEASE be careful out there, folks. Job searches are hard enough without getting scammed :( 
Thankfully I didn't give any info that you can't find on a Google search, and I've locked my cards and changed my passwords, etc.

Let me know if you've come across this company before.