SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Need help starting out my financial journey
DATE: 2024-05-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1cywdur/need_help_starting_out_my_financial_journey/

--- POST TEXT ---

I 18(M) want to start my journey of personal finance. 

Currently I'm taking a drop year to prepare for neet entrance exam. I have about 20k with me right now and parents have promised an additional 10k for my good boards results. Plus I will also be able to save about 1-2k each month from my pocket money. 

1. I want start by creating a bank account. I want to know which bank would be the best to start with. (this will be my first bank account). My criteria would be good customer service, good NetBanking and upi services, low minimum balance, and easy to use for investment purposes. (P.S : I don't care at all about interest rates(religious beliefs))

2. I want to invest the 1-2k I'm saving each month in SIPs for the long term(could extend upto 30 years). I have a pretty large risk appetite and have made somewhat of a stock watchlist ( with actual research, I know, weird for an 18yo) i want to know how much of the amount that I have on me should I invest in large cap, small cap, and mid cap each and how much of it should I keep in my bank account. 

 (I'm willing to keep next to nothing in the bank and ready to invest it all since my parents take care of all my expenses(I recieve all money from parents in cash)) I just need a small amount to take care of any minor transactions in case I don't have cash available. 

So basically I want bank recommendation and investment sum advice.(P.S: I can't really ask any financial advisor in real life for such small amount of money and also am afraid they might scam me)

3. I went to HDFC Bank today and the guy there told me I can't directly start an account there and told something about KYC which I didn't really understand but didn't ask further because he was behaving very rude and uninterested as if he just didn't want to deal with me. If anyone could explain what's the deal with it then I'll be grateful🙏

Ready to recieve all advices with an open brain and will only act on it after proper thinking. Please feel free to give any advices you have🙏