SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Scammed by Hijras(Bellandur)in my first 3 weeks in Bangalore 
DATE: 2024-03-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1be98n4/scammed_by_hijrasbellandurin_my_first_3_weeks_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a 2024 grad and got an Intern opportunity for which I came to Bangalore. It was 22nd Jan the auspicious day of Ram-mandir inaugration( thought of writing this post earlier but didn't want to think about the incident so ..). I was really cheerful coming back from office, idk why but was really happy and was smiling all the way back to my PG (I walk to office and back). After crossing centro mall, I saw a Hijra coming from ahead with chandan teeka, mahandev bracelet(huge), rudraksha and all kinds of puja material on him. I didn't want to engage in their acts so I ignored initially. 

(idk about pronouns so I will refer to that hijra by 'he' because he looks like a guy 100% if not for the lady wear, no offence to their community but all the offence to that mf)

He blocked my way by putting his hands out and not letting me go. When I tried to go ahead anyway he made gesture with his hands for food and being hungry (weak point, thinking someone needs money for food really hurts. Little did I know). I told him I didn't have any cash on me and he told me that he accepts UPI.Then I remembered I had my purse in my bag, I got it out and have him 20rs. He started dancing, I was happy that it helped.

The scam part starts now

Many believe Hijra's blessing and curse come true (so does my mother). The hijra said "blessing blessings, god!" X3. I thought he wanted to give his blessings, but within a fraction of the second, he held my hands tightly and took all the big notes from my purse, this happened so fast that I couldn't even stop him. When I tried to take the money back he closed his eyes and put the money on his head chanting (pretending) to read some mantra. When I tried to take my money back he repeatedly told "blessing blessings, wait", repeated the process sometimes putting the money to his chest and back to his head. Then he pulled out a 5 rs coin, and asked me to open purse saying "blessings from god", I was relevied to get my money back and opened my purse. He again started doing the process of chanting mantra. This happened in less than 20 seconds, and meanwhile his 2 friends came behind him and stood there talking in kannada loudly. At this moment he stopped, and swiftly rubbed his hands. I paid attention to the hand holding the money and then saw another hand going inside his blouse. I realised I was robbed!

I thought of getting hold of other hand and gettingy money but then I realised that if he makes a noise shouting of harrasment then I am done for, also he had back up as his friends were staring at me and talking loudly in kannada(which now I realise is what he was waiting for and prolonging his process and starting it again after asking to open my wallet to give the money back). 

I knew I couldn't do anything by this point. He returned 2 notes out of 10-11 notes(500 and 100 rs). I had around 4500 in purse out of which I received 600+5(his contribution) which he returned in the name of blessings.

I stood there watching him and his friends leave. he kept saying "blessing blessing, for god, for god" while leaving. 

I couldn't come to the terms that I was scammed so badly on the road in Bangalore that I could tell just a few people and that too reluctantantly. 

Letting this post out so that others know to stay away. This happened again one day with lady near centro flyover. I stood there to watch and knew that thing would happen again, while leaving i took my phone out to check the time and started leaving. The Hijra dashed towards me and started shouting "you took video! show show", I showed him and there was no video and then he left. The lady then told that he forcefully took 100rs from her.