SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Magicbricks - Such a scam
DATE: 2022-12-23
SCORE: 47
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/zte4n1/magicbricks_such_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I live in the suburbs outside Chennai and the flats are like hot cakes here, there are people ready to send the first month rent without actually visiting the flat. I gave up finding a property through realtors because there weren't much left. All societies are packed full of college going kids or bachelors.

I had to sign up at various rental sites and Magicbricks was one of them. I received a call from one of their customer support member and he listed all the properties that are available near me. He almost listed all the flat societies in my checklist, which I am sure, does not have any vacancies. He insisted that Magicbricks always have these exclusive properties, listed only to them.

The catch is, I have to buy their membership to get access to their exclusive list. He enticed me in to paying Rs.1100 and promised my realtor needs will be taken care of. I was skeptical when it came to payment, and he blurted out, "Sir, I have 50+ gated community properties on my screen, near your location. You buy the membership and I promise you will get a flat within tomorrow".

The minute I made the purchase, he became all sketchy and told me a separate team would contact me and give me all the contacts of the owners. Three days since that happened, I received no calls.

I logged in to their website and saw the listings, most of them seemed to be fake or doesn't pick up when I call them. Some of them are not even owners, but realtor agents and they never have the same apartment listed in the picture, they use this platform to get leads and they charge one full-month rent as realtor fees.

I am always skeptical when it comes to finances. I would doubt and question twice if someone offers me free money. I can't believe I was cheated like this. Sometimes it happens to the best of us. Beware.

Update : I got a call from Magicbricks, again. Same pitch, but from a different agent. He was trying so hard to sell that Premium membership, he didn't know that I was already a premium customer. This guy did not lie about the properties. He openly agreed there weren't any properties that matched my criteria.