SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Police department calling for taxes?
DATE: 2018-06-25
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/8tss57/police_department_calling_for_taxes/

--- POST TEXT ---

I just got a call this morning from the "NYPD" calling about education taxes. When I looked up the number, it was the phone number for the 10th precinct, but I suspect it's spoofed. I did go to school in new york, but my school wasn't even in that precinct, and I do not think the police department would have the time to call me. I don't even live in new york anymore and have not for at least 2 years. The guy on the line basically called me telling me that he was calling from the police department because of alleged tax evasion on my part. Cited IRS 8863 (which is the education tax break number, but it's usually for getting BACK money, not owing money, as far as I'm concerned). I was like ok I'll hear you out, what exactly is this for? He couldn't really explain and had an Indian accent, which made me suspicious, but I wanted to hear him out. He said he was going to transfer me to someone else, but it sounded like him with a fake southern accent... Even more weird, but still wanted to make sure. Then he said something about owing $4000, and I said can I speak to a lawyer first? And he said give us the number of the lawyer and we'll call and he was just trying to get me to stay on the line. He still didn't really clearly explain what he was calling for, or I couldn't understand him b/c he was just mumbling off a bunch of jargon and IRS numbers. He also said that the police would come and arrest me (...again, red flags because I don't even live in new york anymore, but I didn't tell him and I don't think he knew). I reiterated that I didn't want to pay anything over the phone and wanted to speak to a lawyer first and then he just hung up.

I know this is 99&amp;#37; probably a scam, but I've never experienced this before or really experienced taxes before other than filing my 1045EZ because I've never really worked full time (I'm still a student), so I just wanted to make sure.

Has anyone else experienced or heard of this kind of scam? Or can someone confirm that this is probably not legitimate?