Date: [protected] From K Perumal  (Contact No. [protected]/[protected] No 35, 2nd Cross Street Padmavathy Nagar, Selaiyur Post Chennai -73. To, 1.	The Commissioner of Police Greater Chennai Egmore, Chennai -8 2.	Inspector of Police Nungambakkam Police Station Nungambakkam, Chennai – 34 Sub: 	Complaint of fraud and misappropriation of money in  multi crores by Managing Director and other directors of City Limouzines (India) Ltd – Regarding. Respected Sir, I beg to prefer a complaint against the Managing Director and other directors of City Limouzines (India) Ltd and against the company. 1.	I state that in a calculative manner to defraud the investors the Managing Director and other directors formed a Company in the Name and Style of  City Limouzines (India) Ltd and the office of the Company is situated at No 4D, Riaz Garden, # 29, Kodambakkam High Road, Nungambakkam Chennai – 34.  The Managing Director of the Company is show as one Mrs Geeta. R. 2.	I state that the company was initially formed for the aim of Car Leasing and slowly started investment Scheme in it. For the investment Scheme, they advertised in the Magazines and circulated pamphlets  with attractive promises. Initially they were also paying the Higher returns and the promise was to pay for 5 years and on completion of 5 years, the deposit amount would be returned. Latter they increased the monthly returns    and promised to return the deposit amount by 50%. There after further hiked the monthly return and said that no amount would be paid on completion of 5 years. 3.	Initially, the payment of monthly returns were made through post dated local Cheques every six monthly. There after the Directors commences many companies and formed a CITY Group. The names of the company are 1.		City Limouzines (India) Ltd 2.		City Real Com Ltd 3.		City Co-op Credit Society Ltd 4.		City Communications Ltd 5.		City Money Ltd 6.		City Trading L.L.C. (U.S.A) 7.		City Airlines Pvt Ltd. 8.		City Resorts 9.		City Cine Vision Pvt Ltd. 10.		City Hospitalities Ltd. 11.		City Foundation 12.		Chaman Automobiles( An H.P Outlet) 13	.	Bharatratna Dr. Babasahieb Amedkar Pratishthan 14.	Bharatratna Dr. Babasahieb Amedkar Pratishthan Co-op Credit Society Ltd And collected very huge amount from general public. The Directors then slowly had transferred funds from one company to another and started sending cheques from Bombay. They have a  preplanned move to cheat the investors and defraud, there misappropriating multi crore rupees. The Directors started sending cheques only for three months advance and slowly delaying the dispatch of cheques. 4.	While so, from[protected], the Cheques on depositing for collection started bouncing for insufficient funds. On telephonic query, the staff and the Directors were misleading the investors by saying that there is some audit going on and hence there is some delay. They also even sending SMS to the Cell Phones to delay depositing Cheques. 5.	Now I am coming to know that the Directors swallowed the complete money of the general public running in multi crores. I state that the action of the Directors are preplanned one from the inception of the company. Now at this stage the Company directors are not likely to return the investments or honour their promises made to the poor public. Now the Office of the Company is also closed and they are not attending telephone calls creates greater suspicion. 6.	I state that I have deposited a total of Rs.  3,71,309/ as per the details shown below. Date	Receipt No.	Folio	Company	Amount Rs. 17-8-05	1863	1668	City Limouzines (India) Ltd 1,50,637 24-8-06	3623	3418	City Limouzines (India) Ltd 99,831 28-10-06	353	4001	City Limouzines (India) Ltd 99,831 28-10-06	2995	4001	City Co-op Credit Society Ltd	   21,010 Total	 3,71,309 7.	In my case I am an Ex Service-man and the money invested is my discharge benefits received after 20 years of meritorious service in the Indian Air Force. May I kindly request you Sir to Register a Case as against the Company and against all the Directors and Staff, investigate the same and take necessary action against them to retrieve the money invested through the existing assets. I am herewith enclosing the Xerox copies of relevant Documents and receipts of acknowledgement by the accused company and its Directors. Yours Truly, Date:[protected] From P Premalatha	(Contact No. [protected]/[protected] No 35, 2nd Cross Street Padmavathy Nagar, Selaiyur Post Chennai -73. To, 1.	The Commissioner of Police Greater Chennai Egmore, Chennai -8 2.	Inspector of Police Nungambakkam Police Station Nungambakkam, Chennai – 34 Sub: 	Complaint of fraud and misappropriation of money in  multi crores by Managing Director and other directors of City Limouzines (India) Ltd – Regarding. Respected Sir, I beg to prefer a complaint against the Managing Director and other directors of City Limouzines (India) Ltd and against the company. 1.	I state that in a calculative manner to defraud the investors the Managing Director and other directors formed a Company in the Name and Style of  City Limouzines (India) Ltd and the office of the Company is situated at No 4D, Riaz Garden, # 29, Kodambakkam High Road, Nungambakkam Chennai – 34.  The Managing Director of the Company is show as one Mrs Geeta. R. 2.	I state that the company was initially formed for the aim of Car Leasing and slowly started investment Scheme in it. For the investment Scheme, they advertised in the Magazines and circulated pamphlets  with attractive promises. Initially they were also paying the Higher returns and the promise was to pay for 5 years and on completion of 5 years, the deposit amount would be returned. Latter they increased the monthly returns    and promised to return the deposit amount by 50%. There after further hiked the monthly return and said that no amount would be paid on completion of 5 years. 3.	Initially, the payment of monthly returns were made through post dated local Cheques every six monthly. There after the Directors commences many companies and formed a CITY Group. The names of the company are 1.		City Limouzines (India) Ltd 2.		City Real Com Ltd 3.		City Co-op Credit Society Ltd 4.		City Communications Ltd 5.		City Money Ltd 6.		City Trading L.L.C. (U.S.A) 7.		City Airlines Pvt Ltd. 8.		City Resorts 9.		City Cine Vision Pvt Ltd. 10.		City Hospitalities Ltd. 11.		City Foundation 12.		Chaman Automobiles( An H.P Outlet) 13	.	Bharatratna Dr. Babasahieb Amedkar Pratishthan 14.	Bharatratna Dr. Babasahieb Amedkar Pratishthan Co-op Credit Society Ltd And collected very huge amount from general public. The Directors then slowly had transferred funds from one company to another and started sending cheques from Bombay. They have a  preplanned move to cheat the investors and defraud, there misappropriating multi crore rupees. The Directors started sending cheques only for three months advance and slowly delaying the dispatch of cheques. 4.	While so, from[protected], the Cheques on depositing for collection started bouncing for insufficient funds. On telephonic query, the staff and the Directors were misleading the investors by saying that there is some audit going on and hence there is some delay. They also even sending SMS to the Cell Phones to delay depositing Cheques. 5.	Now I am coming to know that the Directors swallowed the complete money of the general public running in multi crores. I state that the action of the Directors are preplanned one from the inception of the company. Now at this stage the Company directors are not likely to return the investments or honour their promises made to the poor public. Now the Office of the Company is also closed and they are not attending telephone calls creates greater suspicion. Date	Receipt No.	Folio	Company	Amount Rs. 10-10-08	9935	11127	City Real Com Ltd	   97,000 10-10-08	9936	11127	City Real Com Ltd	   97,000 10-10-08	289	11128	City Co-op Credit Society Ltd 	   32,010 10-10-08	290	11128	City Co-op Credit Society Ltd 	   32,010 Total	 2,58,020 6.	I state that I have deposited a total of Rs.  2,58,020/ as per the details shown below. 7.	In my case I am wife of an Ex Service-man and my husband is already an investor in the company and the money invested is my discharge benefits received after 20 years of meritorious service in the Indian Air Force. May I kindly request you Sir to Register a Case as against the Company and against all the Directors and Staff, investigate the same and take necessary action against them to retrieve the money invested through the existing assets. I am herewith enclosing the Xerox copies of relevant Documents and receipts of acknowledgement by the accused company and its Directors. Yours Truly,