SUBREDDIT: r/IndiaInvestments
TITLE: The tech narrative of Jio makes no sense.
DATE: 2020-05-19
SCORE: 452
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/IndiaInvestments/comments/gm7k7t/the_tech_narrative_of_jio_makes_no_sense/

--- POST TEXT ---

How is this related to investing? Well if the narrative does not make sense than the value of Jio Platforms and by extension RIL stock will not seem as rosy as what these PE firms are investing at.

I am just amused how RIL has managed to rake in so much money during such an economic fiasco. All of this on the back of the Jio Platforms narrative or the "look, I'm a tech company, not a telecom company" narrative. Why are so many PE funds like General Atlantic, Vista Equity, Silver Lake etc cutting such big checks for Jio? These PE firms are filled with some of the most academically sound men and women who seem to be making a disastrous investment in my opinion.

I will be the first to admit that Jio probably has been the single most dynamic, David taking on the Goliath type of story. I can't remember of a company entering an industry from scratch and going on to dominate the industry in a span of four years like Jio has dominated the telecom industry in India. But if you come to think of it, a lot of Jio's domination of conventional telecom in India is down to the basic core competencies of RIL. 

The first is enormous capital investment. RIL has been the only company that I feel has had the stomach to time and again undertake massive capital investments. From Jamnagar refinery to Reliance Retail and Jio. RIL has taken up enormous debts to undertake capital projects which few companies can undertake thanks to the sheer amount of money required to undertake these projects. And capital was something that was sourly missing in the Indian telecom scene. Airtel, Vodafone and Idea had created a cartel which was so indebted with the 3G auctions that they used to charge an insane 249/GB of 3G data. They were in no mood of investing in 4G and their plans were stupid. What would be the utility of using 33MB of 3G data per day for 249Rs per month? Airtel, Vodafone and Idea were just milking the users without any tangible benefit. 

In comes RIL with its dollars and a kick-ass 4G network which covered all of India and Jio was willing to give out free data for like half a year. If I were to tell you that there was a bullet train that was offering free rides and your conventional Rajdhani was charging you 600 for one stop to the next, which one would you choose? I think the answer is simple here.

Then comes RIL's next core competency, lobbying. Now things get murkier here as there are a lot of allegations without substantial proof but we all know that RIL has over the years managed to get a lot of laws auto-magically in its favor. Telecom was no different. From the conversion of its ISP license to UASL to using Infotel as a front in the 4G spectrum auctions, RIL played all its cards right to ensure that the laws in general were favorable to Jio. The ISP to UASL conversion at a mere 1k-2k crores saved RIL probably tens of thousands of crores during spectrum auctions.

The third is operational excellence. RIL made a great decision by going 4G only as the market for 4G devices was super mature by the time they launched. This helped them save money on running 2G and 3G networks. Next, tying up Samsung as their sole equipment provider probably provided some discounts and uniformity across the network. True to its roots, RIL is planning go down stream in telecom as well and plans to become a telecom equipment manufacturer as per media reports. All the more savings.

Combine these three and its not tough to see why Jio pulled off what it pulled off in telecom. The sector was in some way the perfect playground for a company like RIL and with no external adversaries and a favorable political climate, the fact that Jio came to dominate telecom in such a short span should be no surprise.

Now come to Jio Platforms, RIL is now selling itself as tech and services company. But no matter how hard I think, I cannot wrap my mind as to how RIL's core competencies will in any way help Jio Platforms.

Lets start with Jio Mart. Jio Mart is most probably why Facebook cut the biggest check of everyone investing in Jio Platform. Yes, I agree that both Jio and WhatsApp have around 300-400 million people as a potential audience but this is where all there benefits end. There is nothing else. Zilch. Now Jio Mart claims that it will connect the local seller or retailer with customers online. However, e-commerce is not as simple as having a potential captive audience waiting to be untapped. E-Commerce is India is a mess. There are a lot of fake sellers online. Like a LOT. Amazon India claims to be an e-commerce marketplace just like what Jio Mart is proposing but if you look closely, a lot of products on Amazon are sold by Cloudtail, Appario Retail, Amazon Retail and some combination of these 4-5 mega sellers.

Every time you buy from these 4-5 mega sellers, you are in effect buying from Amazon. Over the years, Amazon has realized that decentralized e-commerce in India will never be effective. A lot of seller fraud happens in India. So much so that Amazon eventually had to tie up with a bunch of blue chip Indian companies and become a seller themselves. Amazon owns like 49% in most of these 4-5 mega sellers just to comply with Indian laws. Operationally everything is handled by Amazon. This was the case with Flipkart as well where a seller named WS Retail used to handle everything. Flipkart decided to go down the decentralized path and now regrets its decision. Ever since WS Retail lost its dominance in Flipkart, product quality fell rapidly. So the grand theme is this - Acting as a platform for a gazillion sellers is something both Flipkart and Amazon have spent tons of time and resources at and failed. I fail to see how Jio would fix that.

Two of RIL's core competencies are of no use in Jio Mart. If you're talking about capital then good luck competing with Amazon. Jeff Bezos will invest every single penny of his free cash flow and his shareholders are also OK with it and trust me, AWS is a much bigger money maker than RIL's Jamnagar will ever be. Second, as far as operational efficiency is considered, Amazon and Flipkart have spent years bringing down unit costs and most of their riders deliver a heck ton of parcels. Again, not sure how RIL can compete here. There is one place where RIL wins, lobbying. RIL could get the government to make life tough for Amazon and Flipkart. But as Cloudtail etc all are proof, every law of government will be met with a creative work around. Also in case of commerce, RIL will be up against tons of small retailers whose collective political capital would trump RIL any day.

Amazon and Flipkart have already become the default e-commerce destination for the creamy top 200 million Indians. In India, the 80-20 rule becomes more evident than anywhere else. Once you leave the top 200 million people, the remaining 800 million simply do not have enough purchasing power. Asking someone to leave their trusted Amazon or Flipkart for Jio Mart is an uphill task. People sub consciously these days first open Amazon or Flipkart and then search elsewhere for anything else.

Now lets come to software and services. As far as I know none of Jio's apps make much money despite being downloaded so many times. Getting people to pay for content in India where YouTube series are often better than cable TV is an uphill task. You could literally find anything you want on YouTube from music to TV shows and watch them without paying a single penny. Even YouTube wouldn't be able to up sell people to YouTube premium in India let alone Jio.

Lastly, creating software and services that people use is a different ball game altogether. You cannot just buy this. Apple sits on a mountain of cash but its cash position is not why iPhones sell like hot cakes but its because of the kind of culture most of these tech companies have. Creating that perfect UI/UX requires a culture more than anything else. Tech companies spend decades perfecting this culture and it shows. PhonePe launched earlier than Google Pay yet Google Pay is the leader today because its minimalist UI/UX was an instant hit with Indian masses. You can't just throw money and get this UI/UX. You need to have a culture where everyone right from the coder to the product manager thinks along these lines. And this culture doesn't come by having open offices or free food. It comes when like minded people come together and spend insane amounts of time studying UI/UX flows and how people respond to them. This is definitely not the culture at RIL. This is also something you can't lobby around. You can't ask the government to make minimalist UI illegal so that Google is at a disadvantage or ask them to make double tap to like illegal so Instagram is in trouble. 

I maybe wrong here. There maybe something I am missing here. After all the Whartons and Harvards of PE firms have invested for far longer than me and with far more internal data. But whatever happens, I have developed an admiration for Mukesh Ambani. Regardless of whether Jio Platforms proves to be whatever its lofty claims are, Mr. Ambani has managed to par down a significant amount of debt for very little equity dilution, that too during the worst health crisis of modern times.