SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: There's a phone scam going on here somewhere, I just know it's none of my doing.
DATE: 2023-12-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18ktrsk/theres_a_phone_scam_going_on_here_somewhere_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is the second time this has happened to me, else I would have written it off as coincidence.

Several weeks ago, I got a phonecall from someone with a thick Indian accent angrily complaining that the food I had ordered had been sitting there waiting for pickup for "over two hours". The first time I thought it was a wrong number. I told him I hadn't placed any order (I hadn't) and that he had the wrong number.

He started arguing and I hung up on him. I'm not going to repeat myself all night to a stranger. And I couldn't help but get the feeling at that point like it might have been a scam, like they were hoping I might think my spouse or someone had ordered it and given my number and then they'd demand that I pay. He seemed overly aggressive for a business person (or employee who wants to keep their job) who was trying to solve a legitimate problem. It makes me think he's deliberately trying to make people flustered so they cave easier.

He called me back two more times before I blocked his number and then I mostly forgot about it until tonight.

Different number, different person, same story. "The pizzas you ordered have been sitting here since two hours." I didn't order any pizzas, and if I was going to order a pizza, it wouldn't be from a city 150km away. And just like the first time, it was immediate anger and aggression from them, no courtesy whatsoever.

So I'm wondering, are they trying to scam me, or is someone trying to scam them and is giving/spoofing my number? I mean, I can see how a competitor with some ethics issues might play stupid games like this: order a bunch of food and say you'll pay when you pick it up. They prepare the food, you never show up. The food goes in the trash and they're out the cost.

(This was actually a big issue in my area when I was a kid: people would phone a competing pizza place, order 4-8 pizzas for pickup, give a fake number, and then never show. Eventually, pizza places caught on and when you placed an order, they'd take your number and call you back to confirm the order was legit before they sent the order to the kitchen. I guess that was too much effort, because nobody seems to do it anymore.)

It's easy enough for me to dismiss it because even if they're the ones being scammed and they go after me, they'll never be able to connect back to me (because I was never part of it to begin with).

Has anyone else experienced this?