SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Police threatening to file FIR for prostitution against my elder sister.
DATE: 2024-11-20
SCORE: 640
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gvlpiq/police_threatening_to_file_fir_for_prostitution/

--- POST TEXT ---

My elder sister was going to a beauty parlour near our home for learning makeup so that she can do her own makeup at home rather than going out to a beauty parlour everytime. 

Yesterday police arrested the owner and three staff girls of that beauty parlour. My sister received call from police station that the owner and staff girls of that beauty parlour are booked for prostitution. They said that owner is also taking my sister's name telling that my sister was also working under her and provided services to clients.

My sister is very scared and informed me. She told not to inform parents and handle it. So I went to police station. Sub inspector told me that owner has given statement that she used to call my sister for high paying customers and my sister then used to come to her parlour and provide services to them. He said this statement is enough to file FIR against my sister as well. I asked him what other evidence he has so he said owner has also provided a video of my sister giving nude massage to a man in the parlour. When I asked to show video he denied to show me and told me why u are asking for video evidence and there is no need for any evidence, the statement of owner itself is enough to name my sister in FIR.

I then asked him how this can be settled amicably. He said SHO will not agree for less than fifty thousand. He said SHO normally takes not less than one lakh but since ur sister is from good family fifty thousand only for u.

I contacted one lawyer friend of mine and he told not to worry and even if my sister is named in FIR based on statement of owner who herself is accused, she will easily get bail and no harm will happen to her in the case.

So friends please help me should I listen to police or my lawyer friend ? Should I just pay 50k and get over with this ?