SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: FTD.com and 1800flowers.com are total scams from top to bottom.
DATE: 2021-05-21
SCORE: 57
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/nhyxng/ftdcom_and_1800flowerscom_are_total_scams_from/

--- POST TEXT ---

The same company operates multiple online flower shops, I guarantee many more than just these two.

First, you shouldn't use ftd.com or 1800flowers.com for the simple reason they charge you $100 for something that you can get for $5 at Home Depot. Call a local flower shop or get a gift off Amazon instead of these garbage flowers.

So I ordered through 1800flowers.com and canceled the order within 10 minutes because I figured out they are a scam non-USA based company. Every time I call either of them, it's an Indian person with horrible customer service. When I asked for a refund, they tried to give me a cheaper product, but charge me the same amount. Then they tried to give me a more expensive product for the same price, but an astronomical shipping charge that still would again cost more money. After 20 minutes of being constantly put on hold, they said they'll refund, but it will take 2 months. They want you to forget, and if you do remember, there's a cutoff to dispute with your cc company. It can be 60 days or 120 days. If you call one day later, they do not care. Money gone.

Then I find out I'm charged by FTD.com, not 1800flowers.com. So if there are any billing problems or you request a refund, they simply say "that's not us, call them." Then when you call FTD.com, they say, "that's not us, call them." Then when you say "you're company is the one on my credit card, give me my money back, I did not order from you, I did not receive any products," they keep you on the line for 30 minutes with bullshit. If they don't like your response, they put you on hold, and start over again with the same intro. Why? So if you dispute the charge with your cc company, they have a recording of everything they want you to say. So DO NOT follow their prompts and keep saying what you need: "I need a refund. I did not order anything from you. I did not receive anything." (bullshit response, put on hold, same intro) "I need a refund. I did not order anything from you. I did not recieve anything." (bullshit response, put on hold, same intro). "I need a refund. I did not order anything from you. I did not receive anything," etc... Their final response: "Sir, you'll have to dispute with the bank. Have a good day."

EDIT: I forgot to mention a big part of their scam... When I told 1800flowers.com to give my money back, they said the charge didn't go through bc it was cancelled so fast, so it won't show up on my statement. So when you check your cc statement, you won't see it bc they charge you from FTD.com. Sneaky pieces of shit.

EDIT 2: So I went to leave reviews on BBB and turns out FTD has every business name possible to dilute the complaints. FTD, FTD LLC, FTD Inc, etc. Not surprised to see all 1 stars by hundreds of people.

Adding random statements below to help Google pick it up:

Do not order from 1800flowers.com online flower shop. They are non-USA scam companies.

Do not order from FTD.com flower shop. They are non-USA scam companies.

1800flowers.com is a scam flower delivery service. Avoid at all costs.

FTD.com is a scam flower shop. Avoid at all costs.