Subject : request to initiate a legal action about the lethal partnership between the former vice chancellor of the magadh university, dr. Arun kumar, officials of thr said university and mr. Parampal singh gandhi, who is an sp in punjab police for helping him in fraud degree case and about his educational certificates. Respected sir, With due respect it is to bring to your kind notice about the lethal partnership (As stated by the information commissioner of bihar state information commission in case appeal 77167/12-13) between one person namely param pal singh gandhi, who is an sp in punjab police and magadh university's, vice chancellor dr. Arun kumar. I am enclosing an order passed by the state information commissioner bihar on dated 4/02/13 at patna in my 2nd appeal.in this order the commission requested the chief secretary biharto investigate the matter by its local agency or by the cbi.in support i am enclosing some of the documents, which are self explanatory and has been obtained by me under the rti act 2005 from the magadh university and its constituent college, the kisan college, sohsarai, distt. Nalanda, bihar. First, i would like to introduce myself, why i am taking this issue before you. Sir, my name is anil kumar bhanot and i am serving in punjab police as an inspector. I am fighting to get justice from my own department and the state government for the last 24 years, who are trying to save param pal singh gandhi, who has been serving in the punjab police on a fake and forge degree, which he got from the magadh university, bodh gaya. Sir, mr parmpal singh gandhi completed his 10+2, examination from punjab school education board, mohali in the year 1989…….. After that he registered himself for the graduation course in punjab university in the year 1989 under registration number 89-cor-484 and appeared in the b. A 1st year exams in the year 1990 and the result was fail. He again appeared for the 1st year examination in the year april 1991 and he passed the 1st year exam. As per his submissions in the application form, which he submitted before the departmental selection committee punjab in the year 1993, he has mentioned that he passed his matriculation and intermediate examination in the years 1986 and 1989 respectively. So its quite clear that he passed his 10+2 exam in the year 1989 from punjab school education board, mohali and then he registered him self with the punjab university, chandigarh for graduation course as a correspondence student. As per the punjab university gazette he passed his ba 1st year exam in the year 1991. But in the year 1993 when the departmental selection committee punjab advertised the post of inspectors in the punjab police department for which the minimum educational qualification was graduation from any university.in the year 1993 mr. Parampal singh gandhi had passed only ba first year exam. As he was having good connections with some of the political leaders of punjab, he got selected as an inspector in punjab police. Later it was disclosed that he had submitted a provisional certificate no 001689 dated 18/1/1993 of ba (Pass) examination 1989 old course held in the month of september 1991 by magadh university. The provisional certificate attached with the application form (Submitted at the time of recruitment in punjab police) have no entries regarding the roll number, registration number and about registration year. After the selection, in the year 1997 an anonymous complaint was filed against mr. Parampal singh gandhi about his forged degree and other educational documents. The dgp punjab directed the ssp ropar to inquire the matter. Sp (Operation) of ropar district conducted the inquiry. During that period parampal singh gandhi managed to get a marks-sheet under roll number 13536, registration number 65267 of 1987. He produced these marks-sheet before the inquiry officer. The inquiry officer wrote a letter no.49/ops dated 6/1/98 to the chancellor of the magadh university through a special messenger. That messenger took that letter to the joint controller of examination of the magadh university. The joint controller of examination of the magadh university mr. Harendra narayan singh, illegitimately received that letter and issued a letter under his signatures that the provisional certificate and the marks-sheet are valid documents and paramapal singh gandhi has passed that two year degree examination of the university. When the messenger handed over that letter to the sp (Operation) of ropar district, he immediately responded back and wrote another letter directly to the joint controller of examination that the verification was sent to verify the status of roll number 13536, registration number 65267 of 1987 (As mentioned by parampal ingh gandhi) but the information received from the university is about the roll number 13536, registration number 65276 of 1989. The joint controller of examination wrote under his signatures that due to typing mistake it is happened and entry regarding registration number 65276/89 is correct. On these alleged submissions the inquiry was filed as everything and everyone in punjab and in magadh university was managed. When an ips officer of punjab cadre sh. Kunwar vijay partap singh was directed by the office of dgp punjab to visit the university and submit his report regarding the educational status and documents of paramapal singh gandhi. That ips officer visited the offices of magadh university and submitted the detailed report before the dgp office that educational certificates regarding ba pass and the entries made in the different registers at magadh university are managed and forged. He clearly recommended a criminal case against parampal singh gandhi as he he had got false and forged certificates from the university and further used them to get job in punjab police but his recommendations were set aside by the then dgp punjab stating that the inquiry is not supported by the documents. Thereafter the matter was put on silent mode by the punjab police office and punjab government as he had strong links in the police department and in the punjab government as well. In the year 2005 rti act came in to force.in the year 2007 one person sh. Gursewak singh maan, an advocate by profession submitted an application to the magadh university, under the rti act 2005 regarding the authenticity of the documents. The university provided the information to the applicant under the signatures of the pio along with the report of the then controller of examination.in which the then controller of examination sh. Deepak kumar clearly stated under his own handwritten report that the educational certificates /documents attached with application are not authentic documents of the university. He specifically mentioned in that letter that parmpal singh gandhi has done his b. A. Pass course with subject sociology, which is totally wrong because there was no sociology subject teaching in kisan college in the year 1991. He also stated in that letter that action is being taken against the erring officials. But till today nothing has been done in this regard. When i came to know about this report in the year 2011, i too submitted an application to the pio of the magadh university, under the rti act, seeking information on almost 25 points, regarding the educational qualification and the certificates of mr. Gandhi. Failing to provide me the desired information in time i contacted the then pio mr. Kapil dev singh of the magadh university after getting his mobile no. From the university website, he told me to visit personally to collect the information.in the month of september 2011, i visited the university but he failed to provide me the information and that official said to me that the information will reach to my address by post. Sensing some mala fide intentions of the officials of the university, i submitted another application to the principal cum pio of the kisan college seeking information on five points, and mailed it from the magadh university post office and returned to my place. After few days i received a letter from the principal of kisan college, which was the reply to my application under the rti act.in that letter it was clearly mentioned that mr. Parampal singh gandhi was never ever student of their college and there was no sociology teaching in their college in that year. Not satisfied with the information, i again sent another application to the pio of the kisan college to provide me the required information mentioning the registration no. And the roll number of mr. Gandhi as per the certificates submitted to the punjab police authorities at the time of recruitment. The pio of the kisan college, soh sarai sent me the reply, in which he clearly mentioned that mr. Gandhi was not a student of their college under roll no. 13536 and the registration no. 65276 /87, or registration no.65276 / 89. (Here 87 and 89 are the years of registration of the magadh university, as claimed by mr. Gandhi himself) here i am enclosing a document which is self explanatory (The copy of the tr (Tabulation register), which is the record of the university, and it has been sent by the principal of the kisan college to the controller of examination vide their office letter no. 253 /11 dated 13/08/11 (Annexure -17) in which he clearly mentioned that parmpal singh gandhi was not admitted in their college.in this document the name of mr. Parmpal singh gandhi has been mentioned as 65276/87 and the roll no. Is 13536, with sociology as one of his passed subject. Later on it been has shown in one of the copy of tr that he passed his b. A. Pass course under the registration no. 65276 /89, roll no. 13536. But here the in this copy of the tr the registration year has been altered from year 1987 to 89 with a pen. It is quite clear that even if this copy of tampered tr is existed in the university record then i assume that the university officials entered the name of mr. Parmpal singh gandhi in the tabulation register (Tr) under registration no. 65276/87, when in the year 2000 it came in the notice of the officials that an ips has conducted the inquiry and he had submitted his report to the higher officials of punjab police to register an fir against mr. Gandhi and the helping officials, they immediately tampered and created a fabricated document. Because in the year 1987 mr. Parampal singh gandhi was in class 10+1. He passed his intermediate exam in the year 1989. The minimum qualification for that two year degree course was 10+2. It is pertinent to mention here that the kisan college provided me the information under the rti act within stipulated time. But the magadh university failed to provide me information as per my application. Failing which i filed my appeal before the 1st appellate authority i. E. The vice chancellor of the magadh university, who disposed my first appeal on dated 23/06/12, in which he clearly mentioned that the documents provided by the principal of kisan college under the rti act to anil kumar bhanot is the sufficient information regarding the verification of certificates of sh. Parampal singh gandhi. Then i filed my 2nd appeal before the bihar state information commission against the order of the 1st appeallate authority. It came for the hearing in the court of sh. Farzand ahmad, the state information commissioner, bihar on 4/09/12. On that day, during the proceedings of my appeal the commissioner ordered the registrar of the magadh university to inquire the matter and submit his report within a month after constituting a high level investigation team from the university. He further appointed the registrar of the university as deemed pio in my case. During the course of hearing the deemed pio, the registrar of the university constituted a three men inquiry committee and sent their names to the commission. The inquiry was conducted by the three members 1. Prof. Sita ram, 2. Prof shailendra singh, and prof. Saroj suman of mahdh university. They submitted their report to the registrar with in a stipulated period. As directed by the commission, now it was the duty of the registrar to submit that report before the commission, in sealed envelope. But some officials of the university informed the outcome of that report to mr. Parmpal singh gandhi. Mr. Parampal singh gandhi immediately went to the university in the last week of the month of december and stayed at vice chancellor's residence for few days and managed to get all the copies of the inquiry report which was to be placed before the commission on 2nd of feburary 2013. Not only he succeeded to manipulate all the things in his favour, but also the then vice chancellor of the university dr. Arun kumar took all the process in his hands, scrapping the committee constituted by the registrar, which was constituted on the orders of the commission. When i came to know that mr. Gandhi is staying at the residence of the vc, i immediately informed the commission by a fax message. It is pertinent to mention here that the then vice chancellor of the university had himself admitted to a newspaper that mr. Gandhi visited him to seek an apology. Now, on the last date i. E. 4/2/2013, sh. Ajay kumar srivastava and mr. Obaidullah from the office of lrgal cell of the university attended the commission. There i came to know that in my case mr. Obaidullah has been appointed as pio in my case, by the vc arun kumar. On that day a one page submission, under the signatures of the legal officer of the university, mr ajay kumar srivastava was laid before the commission. After going through the submissions, the hon’ble commission took a serious view and passed an order, which was self explanatory, in that order the commission requested the chief secretary, bihar to inquire the matter by their own agency or by the cbi to look into the “lethal partnership” going on between mr. Parmpal singh gandhi and the vice chancellor. But parampal singh gandhi approached the honorable high court of bihar and filed a writ petition number c. W. J. C 4021/13 there and succeeded in staying that order of the commission. Sir, during the proceedings of this petition the university official dr poonam, who was nodal officer at patna branch of the university extended her help to parampal singh gandhi under the directions of the vc arun kumar and filed an affidavit in favor of parampal singh gandhi stating that the educational certificates of parampal singh gandhi are genuine. When the matter was highlighted the university filed anither affidavit and seek apology from the court. Sir, i am having all the documents, which shows that this person has got fake degree with the help of the officials of the magadh university. Now he is again trying to manipulate the things with the help of the officials of the university. Sir, more over the university has provided me the information under the rti act regarding the sociology subject teaching in the kisan college. The kisan college applied for the grant of affiliation of sociology teaching in the year 2002. The permission was granted to start teaching in sociology at the kisan college in the year 2004. The university has also provided mr the information under the rti act that the magadh university registered 49135 students in the year 1989 for all the courses. Whereas parampal singh gandhi is claiming that he passed his ba from kisan college with registration number 65276/89. The report of three men inquiry committee clearly states the exact status of his educational status. The committee clearly stated that the entries in the different registers regarding his enrollment as registered student of magadh university are managed through some of the officials of the university and he is not a student of magadh university. They clearly mentioned that in the year 1987, the university allotted slips to total numbers of 131 students only from roll numbers 13401 to 13531 as against his roll number 13536. Moreover there is a sign of interrogation marked in front of the alleged entry made in the registration register of the year 1987. The copy of the tabulation register (Tr) of 1987 clearly shows the name of parampal singh gandhi as passed candidate under roll number 13536, registration number 65276/87. Later in these recent years the official of kisan college, sohsarai issued him a letter no 297a / 11, in which there was mentioned that parampal singh gandhi has passed the ba examination -89, old course in the month of september 1991 as per the tr available in the college.in this letter only roll number 13536 has been mentioned. It has been done so cleverly that if the questions are asked in the future, then the college staff can say that they have submitted the details as per the tr available in the college. So they have not mentioned the registration number and the year of registration in that letter. Moreover this letter issued to save paramapl singh gandhi has no importance and has been issued after adding the serial number 297 a in between the serial numbers 297 and 298. I have the copy of the dispatch register which clearly shows that the serial number 297 a is added wrongly. From the naked eye it can be proved because all the entries are with the blue pen and this entry is with the black pen. In the year 2014 the examination board of the university issued him a show cause notice and directed him to produce his matriculation and intermediate certificates along with other documents. The board gave him fifteen days time to appear in person and to submit the documents as mentioned in the notice. But paramapal singh gandhi again knocked the door of the high court of bihar and filed another writ c. W. J. C no. 9065 and got stay in his favor. The court directed the university not to proceed further till the disposal of the case and issued notice to the university. The assistant registerar of the university sh. Suresh chaudhary filed a detailed affidavit in the court, inwhich he clearly mentioned the status of his claim and the involvement of the university officials in that case. The affidavit was filed in the court on 24/8/15. After that no one from the university tried to attend the court and requested the court to vacate the stay as per law. The some officials of the university, who are in touch with parampal singh gandhi are well aware that as and when the stay is vacated, parampal singh gandhi has to submit his educational certificate of matriculation and intermediate. When the board will examine the passing years of matriculation and intermediate class of parampal singh gandhi, then it will come in the notice of the board that in the year 1987 parampal singh gandhi was in class 10+1. Then it will be cleared in a moment that how a person who was in class 10+1 in the year 1987, can claim that he took admission in the kisan college for that two year ba (Pass) examination 1989, old course for which exams were held in the month of september 1991 for which the necessary educational qualification was intermediate (10+2), which parampal has passed in the year 1989. Moreover his claim that he has passed this examination after taking the admission in kisan college and registration with the university in the year 1989 is total baseless, as in the year 1989, no admission took place in the year 1989 for that course. Because the admissions for that special examination (Session 1987-89) started on 15/8/87. But the exams were held in the year 1991 due to some delay, reasons best known to the university. I have requested several times to the government of punjab and to my senior officers regarding this fraud as i have all the documents, which i obtained under the rti act. But no one is ready to take action against him as he is very powerful and links with political leaders as well as with the administration. So i made a request before the gaya police in the year 2015. The gaya police immediately registered an fir against paramapal singh gandhi and some of the officials of the magdh university. During the ciurse of investigation the officials of the legal cell of the university, mr ajay kumar srivastava and mr obaidullah, who are also named as accused in that fir, gave statements before the court and narrated the whole story that how the former vice chancellor of magadh university directed them do favor to parampal singh gandhi at different levels. Parampal singh gandhi is on a post from where he is able to manage each institution, either it is educational, quasi judicial, judicial and he has proved that. Sir, all the documents shows that mr. Gandhi is having a forge degree in his possession. He got this with the help of the officials of the university at that time and now the officials are trying to help him out. Sir either the above placed documents which i obtained under the rti act are false or the degree obtained by mr. Gandhi is false. It is my humble request before you to look into the matter and take action accordingly. I am running from pillar to post to get justice, which has been denied to me for 24 long years. Senor officers from both punjab and bihar have filed false affidavits in the high courts of punjab and hayana and bihar. Sir, i am the victim here as parampal singh gandhi is enjoying a post which belongs to me. But the wrong submissions made by the seniors in the court of law is lingering on the matter. Yes the matter is in the court, but it is the duty of all the institution to submit the actual facts in the court of law. I, therefore request your esteem institution to do justice. I am ready to be penalized if i am wrong at any point. Because i am the most affected person in this case. Thanking you in anticipation. Anil kumar bhanot, U – enclave, una road, Hoshiarpur, punjab. Mobile : [protected] Dt. 07/08/2017 Note : i have all the documents which are obtained by me under the rti act, but i cannot attach with the complaint as they are large in size. I can make available at any time, if asked to produce in person. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)