SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Am I in wrong here? Fiasco with swiggy delivery person.
DATE: 2021-10-30
SCORE: 213
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/qj6wnr/am_i_in_wrong_here_fiasco_with_swiggy_delivery/

--- POST TEXT ---

I ordered my dinner from swiggy, it showed 35 odd minutes, as soon as I placed the order I called the delivery person and told him that that usual road is closed so he'll have to take a detour, he agreed to it. ( I do this because, it can get messy when they reach a closed road and have to go back a lot)

Now for the next whole hour, the delivery person didn't move and was away from the restaurant. 

I called him again, no answer. 

Then I get a call from him after 15 minutes. 

Says, 

"Sir, the restaurant is denying any sort of order from you, but I can see it on my phone, so I have got it prepared as you ordered, but I have paid everything in cash, so you pay me in cash" 

At first I was fumbled, and said I won't pay any cash, and asked him to check with swiggy on this, he disconnected the call. 

The order got cancelled, and then he calls me again ( I had given him my private number for directions in case he got lost on the detour) and says, I talked to swiggy and you will recieve a refund, you pay me in cash for the order, and tells me twice the amount O had paid for in the order. 

I got pissed and said why didn't he ask me before paying, I am not going to pay in cash, and I don't want the order now.

He starts pleading that he will lose his daily wage, he used all his days earnings to pay for the order, if possible I can pay 50 rs less for the order and whatnot. 

I stuck to not taking the order, and then he said, "Koi nahi, kisi gareeb ko khila dunga", I said okay, and then he disconnected. 

I called the restaurant to check if anything like this occured, the restaurant denied it and said, they have 50% on all items as it is Saturday, and even if he paid cash it would be at the order I paid.

Swiggy support was useless as always and said they are sorry that happened.

Update: I raised this issue with swiggy customer care yesterday, and this is confirmed from them as a scam. They'll be taking action against the delivery person.