SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Gujrat Cyber Cell Froze my Bank Account - Got it unfrozen with expert help
DATE: 2024-03-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bqi0pd/gujrat_cyber_cell_froze_my_bank_account_got_it/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone, I'm writing to share my experience and hopefully help anyone else who might be dealing with a similar situation. Recently, I was the victim of task fraud and my bank account got frozen. It was a stressful experience, but luckily, I was able to get things sorted out with the help of an expert. He explained the situation to me clearly and helped me take the necessary steps to get my account unfrozen.

This incident started when I received a message on WhatsApp saying that they will send me money for posting reviews on Google Maps. Out of curiosity, I posted the review and they sent me the money. I felt something was off and said that I was not interested and blocked that person. However, the damage was already done and that transaction was flagged by Gujrat Cyber Crime cell and my account was Frozen.

My account was frozen on 1st March and due to it my savings was stuck in the account and with no way of retrieving my funds, I was in distress. I tried to contact my bank but they just told me that it was blocked by the Gujrat Cyber-Crime cell and that there wasn't anything they could do. I tried to contact the Cyber Crime cell but they didn't respond to my calls or emails. 

Ultimately, I found Mr. Jeeth on reddit and I and contacted him about my issue. I provided him with my account details and he was able to pull the details of my case. After getting the details, we coordinated and he explained the situation to me in detail. He also told me how I needed to proceed in order to get my account unfreeze. I shared all the relevant documents with him for the verification process and my account was unfreeze after a week's time.

**Important:** I am only able to share this information after getting explicit permission from Mr Jeeth (rule-9). Also if anyone wants to contact him, you can do so at u/Bankfreezeexpert . Again, This is just genuine advise that you should seek the help of professionals and I am not promoting or advertising anybody (rule-8).