SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Congress questions ground reality as BJP defends LPG, fuel supply amid West Asia crisis
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/congress-questions-ground-reality-as-bjp-defends-lpg-fuel-supply-amid-west-asia-crisis/2894938/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 2 (PTI) The BJP and the Congress on Thursday sparred over LPG and fuel availability, a day after the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the impact of the West Asia crisis on essential supplies.
Modi on Wednesday called for an ‘all-out effort’ to safeguard the Indian citizens from the impact of the war in West Asia and stressed a timely and authentic public information system to ward off any misinformation or rumour-mongering.
The meeting was held to review measures taken by ministries and departments in view of the West Asia conflict, and discuss further initiatives in that context, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.
Show Full Article
This was the second special CCS meeting on this issue, with the first held on March 22.
The prime minister directed all concerned departments to take all possible measures to ameliorate the problems of citizens and sectors affected by the ongoing global situation, the statement said.
Amid concerns over fuel supplies and prices, the BJP asserted that the government was proactively managing the situation, while the Congress questioned the ground-level availability of LPG and petroleum products.
Accusing the Opposition of spreading panic, Union Minister Prahlad Joshi said, “People are trying to spread rumours. Standing here itself (in the Parliament), what statement did Rahul Gandhi give that petrol and diesel will finish in two days? In all neighbouring countries and other countries, there are so many restrictions, but in our country, everything is running smoothly.” While the country is doing well in the middle of a global crisis, the mentality of opposing India while opposing Prime Minister Modi is very unfortunate, he told mediapersons inside the Parliament House complex.
BJP MP Dinesh Sharma said the prime minister is closely monitoring the situation.
“This is the responsibility and duty of a committed government, and the prime minister has discharged it effectively. At a time when the world is grappling with inflation and shortages of essential goods, he is personally monitoring every aspect, along with his council of ministers, to ensure that fertiliser prices do not rise,” he said.
“Exemptions have been granted on 40 petroleum products, with even customs duties removed in several cases. A relief of Rs 10 per litre on petrol and diesel has been provided by cutting duties. This reflects the prime minister’s comprehensive efforts to keep prices under control,” he added.
Echoing similar views, BJP MP Madan Rathore said the prime minister is very cautious, with sufficient stock and all arrangements in place.
“Even today, supplies are coming. Our ships are also arriving safely through Hormuz, and there is no problem of any kind. The prime minister has ensured arrangements and stock of all essential goods for the entire country,” he said.
Targeting the opposition, Rathore said that their choice of words is inappropriate and not in keeping with the spirit of democracy. “They are free to oppose, but their language should remain measured. Their discourse has deteriorated into mere criticism,” he added.
BJP MP Rajkumar Chahar said the government is ensuring that farmers are not affected.
“I would like to thank the prime minister, both as a member of Parliament and a farmer, that he has ensured that farmers do not face even the slightest difficulty. Even during the COVID period, he did not allow farmers to face any problems,” Chahar said.
Even today, the minister in charge of fertilisers and chemicals has held discussions with all states and assured them that there will be no shortage of chemical fertilisers across the country, he added.
“This crisis has not been created by India and is being faced by the entire world. People of the country should face it together. Modi ji is consistently working towards unity and ensuring that citizens do not face any hardship,” he further said.
The Congress, however, questioned the government’s claims, saying the real test lay in availability on the ground.
“If there is no crisis, it should be felt on the ground. The consumer must feel confident. They should get LPG, petrol and diesel on demand and if that is so, if there is no pressure, then whatever the prime minister is saying is true,” Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said.
“But if the consumer is under pressure and feeling harassed, then the prime minister is not telling the truth,” he added.
Congress MP Manish Tewari raised questions over diplomatic efforts, questioning how long the government will continue its “band-aid approach”.
“What diplomatic efforts are being made to open the Strait of Hormuz. By reducing excise and removing customs duty, you can manage a contingency. How long will the government continue this band-aid approach? The government should answer when the crude oil and gas will come in adequate quantities until the Strait of Hormuz is closed,” he said.
He said that many countries, including China, Turkey and even Pakistan, are mediating and questioned what the Indian Government is doing diplomatically to stop the Gulf war. Congress MP Ujjwal Raman Singh alleged that there has been a price hike in everything after April. “In the coming days, the prices of fertilisers, petrol and diesel will also be increasing after the elections are over,” he added.
“Only till the elections has this government held them back. I will say to the people of the country that this government has made no arrangements. They are only giving assurances, nothing else, no arrangement at all,” he said. PTI ADI OZ OZ
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.