SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Scammer At Jhilmil Metro Station
DATE: 2023-09-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/169xb3w/scammer_at_jhilmil_metro_station/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, today I deboarded the metro at Jhilmil today at around 4 in the evening. As I left the metro, a guy approached me and said " Someone has stolen my ₹10,000. Please give me 30 or just 20 please." 

Now, I was fully convinced that this was another scammer. Literally a guy who lost his whole monthly income doesn't have even 1 tear in his eye and is begging for merely 20. So, I readily handed him 20 as a fee to test my persuasion skills.

I asked him what the matter was. He explained that he was a worker in some coal factory. Someone stole his wallet containing his monthly income of 10,000 and now he had to go to Shahdara metro station ( He already had a token for Shahdara, he needed 20 for e-rickshaw basically).

Now, as soon as I heard this, I asked him to come with me to the police at the metro station. He was resistant on not going but I was adamant too. He said that there's no need and he could go back home with 20. But I was adamant too so then I said " My grandfather is a retired commissioner in police. I can help you file a complaint and just added that the state government would reimburse him with 10,000." Again, he was hesitant but I didn't stop.

Finally, after this I said, " I believe this is a scam. A similar incident had happened to me at Rithala. A guy and his son had asked for ₹500 because they had to go for registration at DTU. I handed them ₹200 but I carefully watched them and after 2 minutes, they went back inside the station to ask for money." ( This is just a story I made, nothing like this had happened) Now the guy was like 'Hain!' 

So, I told him that it was okay if he didn't want to file a complaint. Next, I asked for his contact number so I could communicate with him in case he needed help. He gave me his number. Then I asked him to repeat the number to confirm whether I had dialled the correct one. And then, he just blurted some random digits completely different from the previous number he had given.

At this moment, I again told him that it was wrong to scam. He was trying to defend himself. I finally asked his number one more time. This time he gave me another number. To cross check, I again asked the number and he told the same digits ( he probably memorized a bunch of random digits). I asked whose number it was. He gave me some name. I dialled the number and on Truecaller, the name was totally different. Again, he was dumbstruck.

Finally, he confessed that he was lying. I explained to him that it's wrong to do such things. I told him that it things like these continue then the needy also won't be getting help due to lack of trust. Furthermore, I also explained not to take jhuuti kasam of gods. At last, he boarded the next train and promised that he wouldn't do this again.

TLDR- A guy who got robbed off his monthly income asked for money at the station. I handed him ₹20 and talked to him and finally made him confess that he was lying.