I am very frustrated with the worst ever experience i ever had with this organisation. It is harassment of the employees. Pfb my communications sent to the fnf team, from my personal email id, to know the status of fnf, to which the team has not provided any response, since many days now. I am in the dire need of money and these guys are just fooling around with the employees. Please start with the bottom message and then read through bottom to top. Help me.. — Enough is enough, you guys are just making a fool out of the employees. Be ready to find out this mail trail on the complaint forums, especially for the hcl and siva kumar, you have been checking my patience, since couple of days now. Talk to you guys soon. Regards. Ankur jaswal Hide original message On wed, 21 sep, 2016 at 11:28 am, ankur jaswal Wrote: Are you guys, going to update me, with the status of my fnf, or shall i involve the senior management, in this mail trail? Regards, Ankur jaswal On thu, 15 sep, 2016 at 10:09 am, ankur jaswal Wrote: Team, no offense, but are you even luking at my emails. A reply of atleast a word, would be appreciated. Thanks and regards, Ankur jaswal On tue, 13 sep, 2016 at 9:37 am, ankur jaswal Wrote: Team, a quick response will be appreciated. Thanks and regards, Ankur jaswal Sent from yahoo mail on android On mon, 12 sep, 2016 at 2:47 pm, ankur jaswal Wrote: Hi team, Please update me with the status update for the fnf. Thanks and regards, Ankur jaswal Sent from yahoo mail on android On wed, 7 sep, 2016 at 3:46 pm, ankur jaswal Wrote: Good to hear the same. I will wait for your earliest, positive reply. Thanks and regards, Ankur jaswal Sent from yahoo mail on android On wed, 7 sep, 2016 at 2:57 pm, fnfsettlementinfra Wrote: Hi ankur - we will start your fnfand accordingly close it within this month. If fnf is payable then we will issue you experience certificate. With regards S. Sivakumar From : [protected]@yahoo.com Sent : tuesday, september 6, 2016 8:53:33 pm To : [protected]@yahoo.com;[protected]@hcl.com Subject : re: fnf query case id:#426132# Hi siva, Please go ahead and check all the clearance's status now, as i have got the admin status cleared too. Please let me know, when will i be getting my fnf, on which date and after deduction what is the amount that i will be paid, keeping in mind that my may months salary was also not disbursed and also i was having near about 20 leaves in my bucket, when i left the organisation. A prompt reply will be appreciated, as i have to plan out accordingly. Thanks and regards, Ankur jaswal Sent from yahoo mail on android On tue, 30 aug, 2016 at 2:11 pm, fnfsettlementinfra Wrote: Hi - please check with your local admin spoc in this regard. S. Sivakumar From : [protected]@yahoo.com Sent : tuesday, august 30, 2016 12:27:09 am To : [protected]@yahoo.com;[protected]@hcl.com Subject : re: fnf query case id:#426132# Thank you for the update team. I am not sure, what the admin team needs from me, to get the clearance. As i cannot access the hcl portals anymore, so i am unable to locate the cell numbers of the admin team members. Can you please help me with their contact numbers or at least their work email addresses? What my understanding is, that i still have the possession of the hcl badge and rsa token. Are these the collectibles, admin team is looking for, to grant me the clearance? Thanks and regards, Ankur jaswal On saturday, august 27, 2016 8:59 pm, fnfsettlementinfra wrote: Hi - your admin clearance in ems is still pending - please get this cleared in ems so that we can start your fnf settlement. S. Sivakumar From : [protected]@yahoo.com Sent : wednesday, august 24, 2016 3:07:00 pm To : [protected]@yahoo.com;[protected]@hcl.com Subject : fnf query Hi team, Can you please let me know, when i would be getting my fnf settlement and if i had to submit any additional documents for the same? Employee id[protected] Name - ankur jaswal Thanks and regards, Ankur jaswal Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (19)