SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Car accident
DATE: 2024-02-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1avcgpy/car_accident/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sorry for the long post. I met with an accident about a month ago near hassan, Karnataka. We were rear-ended when I braked suddenly to avoid collision with the vehicle that broke in front of us. We were hit at around 40kmph. 

The car had 7 occupants including 2 children. The passenger seat occupants being a women and her child, were hurt the most. Note that due to the seat belt alarms the front seats occupants had put on the seat belts first and then sat on them. This caused more harm than good. As his car had open airbags we accompanied the mother child and a relative to the nearest hospital. 

As they were locals to the town they had a bunch of relatives and political friends over at the hospital. This is when the father of the child who was drunk at the time lashed out and tried hitting my friend. We have the video evidence for the same. Later the police arrived at the hospital and escorted us to the hassan station. 

At the police station there was back and forth about who was at fault. The police tried negotiating the matter and explaining to them that it was an accident and the insurance will take care of everything and there is no need to file an Fir. After a couple of hours of banter they let us leave back to blr after the police negotiated that we wouldn't be filing an fir against the child's father. Fortunately the child and mother have recovered now and are in good health. 

Now the problem, fast forward to last week we have been receiving calls from the police back at hassan to get the vehicle along with the driver to get an inspection done at the rto. We asked why for which they said that the other party has filed an fir against us on the day of the accident and we must show us to resolve the matter outside court. When enquired about the FIR number they seem to change the topic and ask us to come asap to avoid further implications. They also stated that the police officer that facilitated the negotiate has left on transfer. 

Is it possible to file a case against us when there was no fault of our own? How can I protect myself against a law suit if any? 
Although the caller seems genuine the whole situation seems like they are trying to get some compensation/extortion as the difference in vehicle value is high. Any advice is appreciated thank you!