SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How I lost all the money I have been saving up
DATE: 2023-12-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18vcjmx/how_i_lost_all_the_money_i_have_been_saving_up/

--- POST TEXT ---

First off I wanna start by clarifying it was purely my fault.
As we Egyptians say, it takes a greedy person (AKA me) for a scammer's plot to work.
About a week ago, an Indian number contacted me on whatsapp offering me a part time job at "instagram" with promises of being able to make thousands of pounds each day.
 I was pretty sure it was a scam at this point, but I decided to proceed, mostly because I was feeling bored and had nothing else to do at that time.
So I carefully read what they were telling me to do and made sure to get no personal info out.
They asked me to simply like 2 instagram videos, one was Ferrari's official account and the other was Cadillac I think. 
I thought that was pretty safe, so I did.
Next they asked me to download telegram and join a broadcast, and once again I did.
And for my surprise that was all it took for me to receive a payment of 60 EGP, I didn't have to send them any money in advance or do something illegal to get it.
I was told that if I kept liking these pretty normal videos on instagram I would get paid 60 EGP (each video is 20 EGP).
The tasks would start at 11:20 AM each day and end at 10 PM (Egypt's time)
There were 18 tasks each day and I was making good money at this point.
They then introduced me to "investment tasks". 
These tasks were "optional" but if I decided to skip them, my commission per video was to be reduced to 5 EGP only, so I had to complete 12 video liking tasks to get those 60 EGP and get paid instead of only 3 tasks as when I first started.
I decided to risk it and go for an investment task. After all, they were only asking me to invest 300 EGP, 240 of which I already made from these video liking tasks.
I did the investment task and got 520 back!
I proceeded with the next investment, and this time I invested 1000 EGP and got 1650 EGP back.
It all came to that third investment where I paid 8650 EGP and got nothing back.
I lost all my money and I feel really stupid for this.
I decided to post this on reddit to warn you guys.
Don't be stupid, be careful.
And always remember, if it sounds too good to be true then, it is most probably a scam.
Sorry for my terrible English and lack of correct punctuation.