SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammed of almost 180-200k INR
DATE: 2024-11-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1h2h4kh/scammed_of_almost_180200k_inr/

--- POST TEXT ---

Something similar happened to me a few days back-

I contacted someone online and they insisted that I come to WhatsApp for the video call. I showed my face and my private parts. After that as usual the short videos were compiled into a video and sent to me and they threatened me with dire consequences. I ended up paying over Rs 180-200K to them. These consisted of

1) UPI/Scanner payments from multiple UPI IDs and scanners

2) International transfers using my credit card- Around 500 EUR

3) When my accounts were blocked for 24 hours due to excessive funds being transferred I had to ask a friend to pay to a UPI ID and I transferred the amount to his bank.

Yes, do feel free to curse and abuse but also do share some useful tips on how to tackle the situation. Even recently they called me and asked for 30K as a "refundable option". When I said I would make drastic decisions as I don't really have any other money, he said to send half the amount (15K). I then blocked them all together, thanks to Reddit posts like these I had already deactivated or deleted my socials but the timing was a bit late and I could have saved some money before.

I have some questions-

1) Does the anonymous cybersecurity complaint really help? Does the detailed one help wherein you have to enter all the details- I really don't want to share those with them, I can probably live with the money spent that is as good as gone.

2) Can I claim chargeback for my credit card amount and also can I mask the reason as generic wire fraud? Because for that I need to raise a cybersecurity complaint and again as stated above I don't want to divulge the information. Please help!!! Also the calls have reduced now (touchwood) but I am in constant panic.

Update- The chargeback thingy must have worked because they called me yesterday evening and WhatsAppd me saying I have complained to the bank and now they are going to send the girl in the video along with the video over to the police.

Update2- I have spoken with the bank and they have assigned temporary credit for now. The final decision might be for or against me. Have not received any calls or messages since today morning.