SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: I was molested and sextorted at a spa in Hyderabad
DATE: 2024-08-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1ev6nrz/i_was_molested_and_sextorted_at_a_spa_in_hyderabad/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone,

Not using a throaway account since no one. In my circle is aware of my reddit account. Nor do they use Reddit as far as I'm aware. 

I've been dealing with a thing, mentally, for a couple of months now. This qdternoon as Im lying down after lunch, and opened reddit while on bed, the thought of venting my pain on Reddit crossed my mind. I don't know if posting online for the world to see is a good idea, or what I expect to gain out of this, other than a source for venting things out after keeping them bottled up for so long. But after a little deliberation, here I am.

I (M, 28), have more than a few times thought of getting a massage at a spa. It's not something I needed medically or anything, just wanted to experience how a spa day feels like, like we see in movies.

I think it started when a few years ago I sprained my ankle and hurt my back as well in an accident. After some recovery and minor physiotherapy, a doctor recommended a Kerala treatment place in Chennai, where I live. I went there twice a week for four weeks and the recovery and relief I felt after the session was amazing, even if during it there was defnitely pain involved. Not just the damage done due to the recent accident but overall as well my back and my knees (I have Mafuns syndrome, a thing that affects your connective tissues, especially your knees) all felt so much good. The morning stiffness and pain in my knees also reduced. 

So since then, I have wanted to try and get a regular massage to help with condition, if that's possible, or even generally. But never got the chance to. 

Now fast forward to May 2024. I had to visit Hyderabad for a few days as farewell to a friend who was going abroad for a promotion. Me as well as two of my other friends from Bangalore, all set off to Hyderabad to meet our old bud to kinda surprise him. We started well before weekend and had plans to stay until Tuesday of the following week. Just using the opportunity to catch up wih everyone. I was a very excited since it was a long time since we all had met one another. 

So we book a hotel close to his home, arrange a surprise ambush, with the help of his wife to plan timing, location and stuff. And we have a great time. Weekend we visited the mandatory places like Charminar and stuff. Come Monday is the day of the incident.

So my other two friends were busy with a little remote work and so we had plans for a short road trip on rental bikes that afternoon. So my morning was free. I found myself looking for a good spa in Hyderabad. I thought why not. Now, in case you're wondering, I am aware of shady practices in spas. I am not completely oblivious to it, but if I had to picture a place like that, I would imagine a place in some corner of a rundown building, dimly lit and shabby structire that does this kind of stuff. Not a place that has great reviews on Google and busy location and has been there for years. The place of my nightmare I chose is called Belong Spa in HITEC city. Great reviews and all, and I was very excited.

As I write this, i realized somethig. I think the part so far, the prelude if you will, I have been writing in great detail and for so long because I have been subconsciously hating coming to this part where I will have to relive the incident again in my mind as I write this. So I will be keeping this segment short, without missing any detail that is relevant. 

Now, i am happily engaged to the love of my liffe. Soon to be married in this year. She's the best thing that has ever happed to me, like my parents and my niece :)

Since the day of the incident I have cried countless nights without being able to confide in anyone. I've stopped enjoying the things I usually do. Listening to music, reading a book, trying new dishes, going for a walk. I have stopped all of these as I am unable to get excited about things that have defined my life so far. In my spare time I only distract myself by binging on Netflix. I just go to work, come back and spend time with my parents for a while and then lock myself in my room for the rest of the evening and whole of night. I feel growing distant even from my fiance. I have been filling ALL my spare time with Netflix as if I'm by myself even for a few minutes, etting my mind wander is too painful. I am a changed man. For thr worst. And there is nothing I can do to the assholes to did this to me.

So anyways, let's get this over with. On to that day. I went in. It was a good place. Very swanky and well kept. Atmo was alright. Paid 4000, I believe, for the massage, which should have been the first red flag if I was a smart person. I don't know how much but I would assume a proper massage by a trained therapist would cost more. Was showed in to the room and asked to lie down on my stomach after wearing a skimpy undie. A girl comes in, I imagine in her 20s, North Indian, I find out later during the short "normal" conversation we had. But things were about to change quickly and I had no idea of the malice she was hiding underneath. 

First few minutes go by well, she is asking wherw I'm from, what I do, if I'm married, which i felt like a wierd question, but quickly remembered we're Indians and people ask intrusive questions all the time. So I thought nothing of it then. Told her I'm about to be. After maybe 10 minutes or so when she was massaging my back and legs I found her inapprproately very cloae to the groin area. I didn't think much still. Then moments later, I immedidtaely felt a grasp. And I bolt right up. She says, "Its okay, its okay", and I immediately felt foolish to have reacted that way, because obviously it was an innocent mistake. I said sorry. Then a few minutes later a defnite fondling and I froze. She came close to my ears and said "You ovviously need more". I said no. She continues saying, "Its okay, its okay." And she lowered my undies slightly, ai reflexively pull it back up, snapping out of my frozen state. I say, "No", almost a shout this time. She says okay and continues massaging normally. After sometime, she aske me to turn on my back. And I do. Within seconds, she puts her hand right inside there and comes close to my face and says, "Only 4000 and I'll do it for you." in English, or something like that. I freeze again on the ridiculousness of it all and how blatantly and openly she is behaving like this. I tell her just finish the massage please. And I dont know why but by this I'm almost in tears as my voice was squeaky. She misunderstands my reaction and goes, "Awwww its okay, its okay. First time?." Again, the ridiculousness of this whole episode has had me frozen but within seconds, I took her hand off forcefully. Her demeanour changes then. She asks me get up and go. Half crying and half shocked, I'm happy to run out of here. She demands 4000 first. I asled why. She says something like you don't want it then why do you come in, we also have to eat. Why dont you stay home if you don't want it. None of this makes sense to me, and n tears streaming at this point am just trying to hurriedly get dressed up. As Im wearing my shirt she hold my hands and again touches my thing over the pants and asks if it even works. Then demands 4000 once more. I ask why again, trying to sound more confident and in control. I was clearly not in control of this situation though. She sees right through me, to what a crying sissy i was. She says, "You don't want service, that's your problem. I have already wasted my time. You have to pay." I, bawling rigt now, say no. She goes, "You pay or i will have someone follow you. They will tell your family this is whay you do. I will find out where you live and tell your fiance and in-laws what type of person you are. She bad mouths a few other things. And its like I'm living in a very bad dream and I just wsnt to get out. All my logical reasoning anf common sense had disappeared and I fail to help myself by standing up to her. I pay her on UPI. And run out of there with oil on my body soaking into my clothes, and me feeling like a fucking garbage for putting myself through that torment. 

I go back to hotel, take a bath, tell my friends something came up at work and I need to cut short the trip. Go back to Chennai by bus but I don't go home as I'm still processing things and I know one look at me an mom would realize something was wrong. Booked a hotel far from my home, stayed there for two more days, did nothing, just slept the whole time and ordered room service. Told friends I reached home, lied to my colleagues and parents that I'm still in Hyderabad, and on the Wednesday I head back home as if coming from the airport. 

Fast forward to this month. After spontaneously crying myself in bed on random nights, not enjoying the things I usually do, I finally decided that person needs to pay for mesing up me like this. After putting it off for days and weeks and months, I decide the spa management needs to know about this therapist. So they can take the needed action against her. And maybe that would finally give me some peace. 

But this is where the realization and the reminder about this cruel and horrible world is going to slap me across my face. So I contact them on WhatsApp, twice, thrice, even a fourth time. Every single time I demand that they investigate this so they could find out which masseuse it was and cancel her license. I am willing to give them the date and the transaction UPI ID of the massuese so they could identify hwr. And every single time, they ignore me and say nothing that will help them resolve this or ask anything to identify and guess what? They even blocked me. I feel devastated and hugely disappointed for being shrugged off so easily like my problem means nothing and these people who are running this shit business obviously are in cahoots with their therapists for ruining people's lives like this and probably get a share from them in profits too. 

Is this what our world has come to now? I feel even the poilce are probably aware of this and let it happen for bribe or shit. 

And here i am today. Broken and still feel like stink when I think of this experience. I hate that I put myself through that day. I hate that I fucking wanted a fucking massage for no goddamn reason and fucked myself mentally in the process. I hate that my internal wiring has changed so much so that I hate the calm and cannot sit in peace or silence even for a minute and let my mind wander. The silence scares me. I hate that I need constant distraction when I'm free or else shit breaks loose. I hate that the other dayI stared crying wjen she asked me what's wrong after seeing something clealry come over my face, and I couldn't even tell her why. I hate that I am not able to even confide in my fiance, or even my closest bud. I hate that there is nothing I can to turn back the time to fucking erase that day by staying in the fucking hotel room and then later that afternoon jusy enjoying a cool road trip with my pals. Instead, I put myself through this shit and ran off from that place like a little bitch that I obviosily am. I hate my fucking self when I think of the incodent. And more than fucking anything else I hate that I canot do anytbing to those assholes who run a sextortion business and make money at the price of ruining mental wellness of those who walk into their establishment, who ironically are there for to improve their physical and mental wellness in the first place. 

I just dont know how to make myself feel good about that incident, how to put an end to this, or how to put this past me. 

CALL-TO-ARMS: When I started writing this, I had no intention of turning this into a pitchfork wielding mob, but I feel I know what is needed to get a response from them. To anyone who has a moment to spare, may I request leaving a review on their Google listing? I feel that should get their attention. These scums of the earth thrive on silence from their victims. To them solving an issue is only a necessity when it harms their business. My issue in their eyes could be solved by simply blocking my "pestering" on WhatsApp. I want them to feel the severity of this. They are called Belong Spa and are located in HITEC city. I hope that this will make them get back to me finally taking matter seriously. Honestly, I don't know if them taking action against her is going to help me let go of the pain, but I'm hoping this is a right step. 

Tl;dr - Went to get a massage, got sextorted and abused. And left with a scar that will potentially last my whole life. Also, please read the calll-to-arms para right above tl;dr please.