SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Amazon India Fraud
DATE: 2022-10-16
SCORE: 86
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/y5gfdm/amazon_india_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

On 25 September I ordered a laptop Lenovo Legion 5 AMD Ryzen 7 5800H on Amazon India (Seller - Appario). On 4 October, 2022 I received a defective product with damaged packing. It's screen was broken and flickered. So on 7 October I applied for a replacement. The delivery was scheduled by 11 October, 2022. On 11 October, 2022 I called delivery agent many times but he kept lying that he didn't have the item and refused to deliver it. No one came to my shipping address to deliver it. On the top of late delivery, he even cancelled my order himself and lied that I didn't accept it when in reality he didn't even come to deliver it. So my replacement was cancelled automatically without consulting me. I waited months to buy a laptop. Had to order it urgently for my college counselling.
So I immediately called CS for return. That guy applied for return of the replacement laptop that never reached me. Realised a day later.
So on 13 oct, I called customer service again for return of original product. Now it's showing today (16 oct) as pickup date but I haven't got any notification to contact the pickup boy. Called the customer service and they said it will be picked up today. Till now he has not arrived or contacted me. Update - They have cancelled the pickup yet again citing that it was refused at the time of delivery.
What do I do and where do I go! I am very dissapointed in Amazon service. I was a prime customer but not anymore. I didn't expect this mental harrasment from Amazon India. I have emailed many times. No solution.
And It's not a cheap laptop at all. I have poured over a Lac on it.

TLDR - Got defective laptop from Amazon (Appario seller). Replacement didn't arrive. Applied for return. They cancelled it twice. This time they gave 16 Oct as pickup date. No one arrived and again they have cancelled the pickup. Richest man in the world and his company uses these fraudulent methods.

Update 1 - So after 12 hours, an Amazon agent from escalation team contacted me and assured that the pickup of return will be done on 20 Oct.

Update 2 - After putting it on sc and emailing the rich lad, indian ceo and the indian manager, they seem concerned about their reputation. I have been receiving emails and calls from higher authorities. Mr Haseeb and Salman have assured me that the pickup will be done exactly on 20 Oct and refund initiated shortly after due to all the delays. 
A man can only hope.

Update 3 - Today's 20 Oct, 2022 and they kept their word though after all the crap they put me through ofcourse. But this time they didn't disappoint. Laptop got picked up and refund initiated after 2 hours. Will get in bank statement after 3 days hopefully.