SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Indian justice system has failed me.
DATE: 2024-07-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1eb5gm3/indian_justice_system_has_failed_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was 20 when I met my husband I will be turning 27 soon.
All my 20's are ruined because I made a stupid mistake of trusting a wrong person.
In past 1 year my FIL and husband tried every rule in book from fake reconciliation to threat of counter cases to trying to buy me out and finally to use FIL connections to delay the case.
I only needed someone to ask him in court on stand " Why he choose me ? Why he ruined my life?"
Maybe get the closure I need to get out of this trauma I have been put through for years.
From sexually exploiting me to take huge chunk of money to go yo Canada and finally abandoning me in foreign land .
I thought police was meant to protect me but his father's one call yo higher ups to delay my case has more power than what had happened to me.
I have put a case on my IO attaching proof of unfair investigation and a update about investigation. 
Meanwhile we have told Court inspector most probably he is going to pass a structure against her for harrasing me and my family. 
Today IO asked me to give account no. Of BIL and my mother's neft transfer which I already gave her on 24 feb 2024 .
I told her I have given her everything atleast 2 times and now court cam summon bank and investigate properly.
She is given a week by CO to file chargesheet I know this is her tactic to delay filling chargesheet further.
I hope one day a fair judge will ask them all Why were they doing this ?
It is very difficult for people like my inlaws and IO of same religion to understand that contract marriages to go abroad and settel is not common in our region.
And we don't sell our soul just to land in canada.
When I refused his compensation my IO couldn't comprehend why I was refusing it?
Because for them dollars, money&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; marriage or respect.