SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is indian parents Manipulative??
DATE: 2023-07-06
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/14rp7zv/is_indian_parents_manipulative/

--- POST TEXT ---

Fake account 
(M30) and wife(f28) living abroad. I came on student (7 years), and she came 2 years back after getting married. 

A little background - My family never saw a good life ,we were very poor , and my father took loans, which he didn't pay back . After coming, I started clearing all my parents' debt and loans they took for my studies. to make a house and for my big brother's marriage. I didn't have any money left for buying or investing in my future ,that time all my focus was giving my evrything to my family. 
I got married in 2020, and my wife came in 2022. At that time, I was living in the pg, and we moved to a small 1bhk basement. I worked 10 hrs 6 days a week, and she was working full time as well. Our week off were on different days, so going anywhere was not possible, and we don't have car and she never complained she knew I was working very hard for my family to give them a comfortable life. My brother never contributed much as his wife was earning good, and whenever he paid for anything, he asked it back in the name of his wife that she was asking for her money as she paid for that. 
So most of the expenses were on me. 
In 2023 I lost my job and my sister marriage got fixed , again I had to send money and some gifts for which I already saved from a while and brother paid 10% of that amount as he didn't had much. This time, my wife was pregnant, so i was not able to visit India, and she started complaining about my spending, but in my mind, my sister is only getting married once. In March my wife was due and as I didn't had any job and my wife was on maternity we decided not to call any of family member and I will be very much involved after having baby like giving more time at home but idk what happend to my mom she started insisting that she needs to come as we are not capable of taking care of our child by ourselves. 
I too got convinced that it's our first time and my mom would be great help but my wife didn't wanted her ,she was very sure it would be way too much of stress for her dealing with my mother plus the tickets were expensive and we will not get privacy in this small basement but in my mind if my mother wanted to come I can't say no. 
The day she came in April and till today, July 5th, my wife is going through a hard time. Acc to her my mom look down on her as a new mother , she never appreciate her , we never get privacy in our own house,I am also on my mom side most of times and never say anything when she complains about my wife ,(want to avoid conflict), whenever we take her out I aways push my wife to give my mom company to take her everywhere with her so she won't get bored ,I am working way to much to recover the money I spended on my family and lost that time of bonding my wife wanted after delivery. 
I can see her suffering and was trying to makesure to get things right when my mom goes back but my mom started saying to stay till my baby daughter gets her passport so she can take my wife and daughter to India to meet everyone which was our initial plan to visit India after some time but now only my wife and my daughter can afford to go. 
Now, when days are coming near for my mom to go back, my father starts saying to extend her stay as its way to hot in India or giving weird reasons. What am I supposed to do ?? Me and my wife are getting into this guilt of not letting her stay.
Still, we don't have any assets on our name. 
I think my mother just wants to stay close to her grandchild.

So my question is indian parents manipulative or is this young generation which are making it more complicated for them to communicate.