SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: [USA] The times I was ALMOST scammed
DATE: 2025-03-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1jaoo7w/usa_the_times_i_was_almost_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Let this serve as a lesson to always be skeptical of things and always ask the people you trust most first for advice. Always question things.

The first time I was a kid, I was browsing the internet when a pop-up came up that said, “You’ve been hacked, please call this number for tech support.” So I called it on my cell. I got routed to a guy with a very thick Indian accent, which doubled with the fact that I have auditory processing issues, led to me finding it very difficult to understand him. 

He was trying to have me do something when my dad walked in. He asked me who I was on the phone with, and I told him it was tech support. Dad took my phone and told them not to call back before hanging up. He immediately did damage control on my computer and had a sit-down conversation about scams. Turned out my firewall was never on, so that immediately got flipped on. Never got a pop-up again. At most the scammer had control of my screen to try to communicate via TextEdit.

Cut a decade or two when I was in university. I got an automated text saying that my package had a delivery issue and it got sent to the warehouse, please click the link to resolve it. I tapped on the link and it went to the USPS site. I filled out the form, giving my name and mailing address. However, it then asked me for my payment information. I immediately started asking myself “Why the hell would I pay for someone else’s shipping mistake?” 

So I opened up a separate tab to look at my incoming Amazon order, the tracking number was completely different than the fake one the link gave me. Then I googled the USPS site, a completely different URL than the one in the text message. Alarmingly they looked extremely similar on the surface, the scammers designed their site to look just like USPS. I immediately closed all the tabs including the scam, and cleared cookies and history to ensure nothing got on my tablet. So if the scammers got anything, it was the mailing address I had. And it was my final year of university when it happened so nothing stuck to me. 

Nowadays I click delete and report junk whenever I get any automated texts that are sus. I’ve been getting a lot of “you have an unpaid toll booth fee, please click here to pay it” scam texts lately. I find it kinda hilarious they send that when I do not drive at all. Or "Mircosoft Tech Support" reaching out to me when I sold my soul to Apple.