SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Was this legitimate or did I mess up (please be kind, I’m very worried)
DATE: 2021-08-16
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/p5lrxc/was_this_legitimate_or_did_i_mess_up_please_be/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don’t mean to bother anyone, but I think feedback is just what I need right now, so I’ll talk about my situation. 

In August of last year, I received a medical bill from my healthcare provider about an overdue balance that I owed. Deductions from what insurance covered with a small copay balance. The bill was formatted strange but the copay amount seemed legit. At the top it gave the option to pay thru the mail via credit card. Through the advice of my mom, though, I chose *not* to go that route for my own protection. 

Two more months passed, with two more bills from the same place in the same formatting asking for the same amount, arriving at the end of each month. I acknowledged them but didn’t pay anything. At the end of the fourth consecutive month, I didn’t get anything. A week after that though (in the fifth month), I received a letter from collections for that copay. The notice and collections agency were both legitimate. The day I received the collections notice I called and paid what I owed. Everything was settled and I never heard from anywhere about it again. 

Come today though, I realized I never got an itemized statement saying that I paid my dues in full. The day I paid the collections amount, I tore up the collections notice and threw it away, so I no longer have the contact info from that agency (I know, I know — kicking myself for that). 

So I decided to call the number on the initial bill, and was transferred to a recording that said “welcome to physician billing; this call may be recorded yadda yadda yadda” with an option to be directed to an agent from a certain number press, so I did. 

My first concern was the “agent” on the other end had a noticeable Indian accent, and at times I had to focus to understand him. Now, I know that shouldn’t necessarily be immediate means for concern, but ya never know. Anyway, he asked for my account number from my bill and I gave it to him. Before he could divulge any info, however, he asked for me to confirm my name (I gave first and last), my date of birth, and my address. I asked why, beforehand, and he said to confirm I was who I said I was, basically, so I reluctantly did. 

Then he told me my billing history (including my doctor’s name and what my insurance covered) and I asked if it was cleared. He confirmed with me that the small copay payment I made to collections was cleared through them and that I no longer owed anything. I asked for him to mail me an itemized statement confirming it was “paid in full” for my records and he said he would mail it to me. He asked if I wanted it by email also, to which I politely declined, and did *not* give him my email. I heard him typing down something, which he said was to get things together to mail the statement to me. 

Before hanging up, I asked who I was speaking to, and his answer raised a small red flag — a very white-sounding male name. It was at that moment that I was no longer super comfortable, but luckily the phone call was basically over. 

I looked up the number on the bill before I called and it seemed fairly legitimate besides maybe one person registering for the “do not call” list, but I still worry. Up until I received the collections bill I wasn’t even sure if it was legit in the first place, but it was for the same amount that “physician billing” said that I owed, so I paid and that was that. 

All I ever told him during the call was my first name, last name, date of birth, and full address. I *never* gave any other “personal” information. The name and address thing I can understand since they already technically had that information (full name and address were on the mail I received during those three months before the bill hit collections). Besides, those two things are common info and could be found out about most people if you search anyone’s name online. My only real concern here is the birth date verification. 

I hope I’m not sounding racist or anything of the sort; that is *far* from my intent, and I will edit this post if necessary. I just know the whole deal about foreign-based phone scams, and just want to check to make sure that I’m *hopefully* going to be okay. Is there anything he could do with the info I gave him? I’m running myself in circles stressing out, my heart is pounding and I’m ready to call my therapist. Any advice? Please be nice...any feedback is appreciated; thank you.

TL;DR: Called a number on a bill I received last year (that I paid thru collections awhile ago) to get an itemized statement mailed to me to confirm I “paid in full” back last year. The agent on the other line had an Indian accent and asked for my name, D.O.B. and address, so I reluctantly complied. Afterwards I asked for his name and he said it was “Lloyd”. The place that initially billed me already had my name and address, but idk about my D.O.B. Had a panic attack after the phone call and have been worrying incessantly since. I have an anxiety disorder so I worry about these things. Should I be ok? I hope so.

Update: I spoke with someone from my doctors office and they confirmed it was the billing department that I spoke to! Starting to relax now. Either way, thank you all for your responses!