SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: What kind of scam are they doing with these details?
DATE: 2021-08-31
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/pf2ai6/what_kind_of_scam_are_they_doing_with_these/

--- POST TEXT ---

My father received a call from someone today and they told him his phone number's KYC was expiring and asked him to provide details to renew. 

Now my dad isn't a tech savvy person, he's 60+ so he thought it would be fine. They asked him for his Aadhar and then requested the OTP and he happily gave. They then told him they need to renew the KYC and it will cost him Rs10 to renew. So he happily also provided his debit card number and all the details associated to it (I know, not smart). He also gave them his PAN card number and also provided a few other OTP's and then in the end told him his number will be renewed soon and hung up. The phone number is switched off now it seems. 

Now I see he is receiving suspicious text messages from various places with different amounts (eg: 49,999 paid from one place to another). Then another with OTP for his Aadhar and another with details to buy something from his bank account. Luckily, he did not have a lot of balance in his bank account so they couldn't take anything.

We know it is extremely stupid and we tried to explain it to him now. I only wish he had consulted with me before providing all the details so easily but it's already done now so we can't dwell on the past. We have also registered a police complaint. But I want to what else can we do here? Like if we add money to his bank account, will the hacker be able to steal it? It seems they're using his details to register on some platforms to buy/sell with his identification details. Should we cancel his phone number? What about his Aadhar and PAN card? 

We've also reached out to the cyber cell about this and registered a complaint on his behalf but yet to hear from them. 

We don't want the hacker to do fraudulent transactions on his name and then later on he's asked to pay for all of it. 

Fyi, please never ever share your confidential details with anyone. I know most of us would know these things here but please also inform your parents about this as they may not be aware of such scams. I never thought such thing could happen to my family but it did and I hope you can take the lesson out of it to keep your family safe from such fraudulent transactions going on.