SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: Our system and rants!
DATE: 2024-07-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1dzrfa5/our_system_and_rants/

--- POST TEXT ---

It's always the same, we rant! And these uneducated jokers rule country. I've expressed a thought about it. Happy to hear counter views. Thanks! 

We Need better leaders with better understanding most importantly educated and willing to make a difference(in a good way). We have so much to rant about. Right from politicians to how government officials work people below them and below them... from officer to peon. Unlike corporates. Plus they need a pension for life and even after life. Okay, I get it you work for the government and all, but at least we need some metric system. Like this is your performance, this is how you've worked you're not eligible for pensions or promotions etc. Then all these people will take their work seriously and be responsible for it. A major chunk of our money goes to salaries of all employees central/states etc and their expenses. Need to make it worthwhile. 
It will save a hell lot of money and will see the system functioning.

Also, need to make some strict rules about file movements from table to table. Any file that is pending for more than the expected time than it should be and not moving needs to be held accountable and disciplinary actions should be taken against the responsible person. There needs to be some sort of system changes, also, law and order need to be followed thoroughly. Before acting on the public start from the system itself. Like education, needs some sub-system to credit base pay rather than experience. And need to evaluate them based on their ability and understanding of the subject. Needs to pay them accordingly and should keep some track record when it comes to pensions etc. Most eligible will get 50% of their last salary (as it's already happening) but those who have some fewer credits (scores/points) irrespective of the person. Like, consider factors right from daily attendance, knowledge, depth, understanding, intellect, performance, etc. (I'm just trying to give a few examples for parameters, and I can be wrong and short of those as well). So such experiments need to follow in every office and part of the system. People need to be held accountable for their work. Like corporates do. Then only they are eligible/capable of taking actions on public. (I'm not against the actions on the public but it won't make a significant change if the system isn't well like ours). start taking action against unworthy people there are tons of credible candidates out there, make it vacant.

Now, about roads and infra, IMO we need more sustainable public (transportation) resources than making bridges and roads. I understand roads are necessary and play a huge role in infra growth &amp; development. Need some viable arrangements for traffic situations you can't just simply expand roads and make bridges. You're just postponing the issue for tomorrow. Delaying won't resolve. It's just temporary. If you make good public transportation and make it sustainable people will definitely opt for them rather than using their own vehicles for everyday commutes. The good metro system, buses (e-buses), interconnectivity, local trains, maybe some airbuses as well (as it's planned for a few cities) and whatnot. Increase capacity, and frequency and make some tracking system for them. It'll be convenient for all. ease the congestion, and reduce carbon as well. 

Also, for pollution, bury those old bases bc. Literally, those buses, trucks, containers, trolleys, etc create fuck load of pollution. Also, make these daily autos (rickshaws) pollution-free bc. Restrict the licensing or make sure to take action for those who don't abide. It'll ease the pollution issue a little, not completely though. 

And these hit-and-runs, drunk drive, road rage, etc cases. Need to learn from Germans about that. How to take care of that. right from driving licenses to canceling them. don't giveaway licenses like it is currently. make it hard to get one. make some serious restrictions for reapplying them and penalties as well. You won't need to stop every vehicle now and then for 50-100 rs in every square of the city. You'll get loads of money as well as people may start valuing their licenses. right now any moron can get a license for almost 1-2k without even appearing for the test. it makes it less credible and often has less importance so canceling them won't make any changes. 

Additionally, make such arrangements for politicians bc. like why you want to be a specific minister. Make it publicly live. Let them know how we people at corporate need to prove why we're capable and so are you. It'll make us know more about the person their understanding and their vision, unlike some election propaganda or election manifestos. nobody gives a damn about that after the elections. so, we need that for every ministry like why you want to be HM, DM, FM, etc. What they say will be held against them if they fail to deliver to just a, not just about the party as its a scam but, as an individual. so that ministries won't get distributed like trade horses. Check their intellect, their capabilities, their thinking, etc. irrespective of age. Make such interviews public. Even within the party needs these arrangements, so no illiterate moron should go and rule literate person. At least have some basic standards. 

also, about corruption, we all know how corruption works from peon to head officer. its open and literally visible. At least out of the 100 you allocate, let 50-60 go for the actual work. this is the least we could expect. nowadays out of those 10-20 goes for actual cause and the rest disappears and gets distributed. resulting in roads/bridges collapsing, un-architected infra, only show-off. no future planning. people needs to hold accountable if they are digging the newly created road for the sake of pipelines or fibre cable. 

Yeah ik many of the things are already there, execution is the issue. but often a majority of posts/comments are rants and discuss issues rather than how they can be resolved. So just an attempt to start a discussion. please connect the dots. cannot straightaway mention all the things yet just an attempt.