What went wrong? Infosys shares surged by 20% in just 2 days Heavy losses in call options and minimal/negligible profit by selling put options While giving the live recommendation on his youtube channel, he didn't mention that the capital requirement could increase by 6–7x to manage the trading loss Somehow managed to infuse additional funds to meet the margin shortfall on day 1, however on day 2 due to lack of funds position was auto-squared off by the rms team. P r sundar seems to be operating with unlimited capital.. Thanks to continuous inflow of seminar income and youtube subscription. He is still holding on to the trade without stop loss and hoping for the prices to fall like a gambler Tldr: 14th july: Pr sundar demonstrated a live infosys earnings trade strategy on his youtube channel (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHRksw4tR0Y) On the same day, he shares an update stating that his strategy has earned rs. 4920 (2% return on the deployed capital of rs.~2 lac) 15th july: infosys 8% up At 10.30 am, he accepts that infosys trade has gone wrong. But he decides to “wait a little more” instead of getting out of the trade. Yes, if he waits a bit longer, the trade may reverse. But few times it doesn't is when you lose 10r instead of 1r. 16th july: infosys 13% up At 08.31 am, he states that infosys adr is 12% up and will refrain himself from posting live updates as it involves “additional margin and risk”. Huh? Damage is already done! At 12.34 am, he shares a screenshot stating that his loss is only 15k (As compared to 1.60 lac for others) despite 12% move on infosys.. On account of adjustment trades he initiated out of public sight and has now decided to share it with his followers but with a disclaimer that it will need “additional margin”. 6–7x margin requirement of your initial trade. How is this disclaimer after incurring substantial loss and a screenshot after the act.. Useful to the people who initiated the trade with him? It doesn’t stop here.. He goes on to mock people and advertise his youtube channel subscription. Twitter traders charlatan A charlatan (Also called a swindler or mountebank) is a person practising quackery or some similar confidence trick or deception in order to obtain money, fame or other advantages via some form of pretense or deception. Synonyms for “charlatan” include “shyster”, “quack”, or “faker”. “mountebank” comes from the italian montambanco or montimbanco based on the phrase monta in banco — literally referring to the action of a seller of dubious medicines getting up on a bench to address his audience of potential customers.[1] “quack” is a reference to “quackery” or the practice of dubious medicine or a person who does not have actual medical training who purports to provide medical services. — source: wikipedia “the world of twitter traders has now become so [censored]ed up, that these people are posting “mtm screenshots with 1% return on capital almost on daily basis” claiming to have made real money (Profit) from “trading” and inviting for seminar subscriptions without any sebi regulations governing this framework. It appears a study needs to be undertaken by sebi on the modus operandi of these social media handles as it has exploded and there are even more scammers using this tool to scam. Take the classic case of pr sundar’s infosys trade where he is stating his loss is only 15k on the call options he has sold, despite a 20% move in the underlying. People are either totally dumb and don’t even realize that these screenshots and trading calls are an illusion too good to be true.. Or these twitter trades/trainers do realize the absurdity and literally have total contempt for the intellect of their followers. Unfortunately, a lot of people are still so dumb in general and still so uninformed in the trading and trading education arena that they will probably still believe that this guy has some sort of trading talent. The even more crazy element to all of this is that this scumbag probably has multiple accounts and he simply posts screenshots of the ones that are practically “making money.” this world is so [censored]ed up! Psychologically, people take comfort in giving snake oil salesmen their money. These salesmen will tell you to want to hear. They like to use fancy terms and graphs to show you how you can become the next big trader. They exploit our human vulnerabilities in that we think we are smart, optimistic, and good things will come to us. A psychology today article, “why we still fall for the ‘nigerian prince’ scam” talks about this. Folks, like me, that have been in this game a long time, just roll our eyes. What most of these scammers have to sell are all smoke and mirrors. I will not go into their techniques here. There is plenty written on how scammers operate. To use a worn-out cliche, “there is a sucker born every minute”. The take-a-ways from all this is obviously to be aware that there are lots of scammers out there trying to take unsuspecting new trader’s money. They will give false hope that you will become rich day trading stocks. Absurd tweets related to infosys trade: Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (16)