SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: The truth behind two-wheeler service centres
DATE: 2024-02-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1ane532/the_truth_behind_twowheeler_service_centres/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don’t trust local mechanics for some reason, they charge a lot among many other things. But after today, I’ve learnt that trust in today’s world is hard to come by. 

3 weeks ago I had a terrible accident. My two-wheeler, Honda Activa scooty, needed repairs, external and internal. Told my mom, she dropped it at a nearby service centre. Guy calls and tells us that the front wheel alignment is effed up, brakes too. Paid 1.3k for everything. 
I take it for a drive and nothing seems fixed, I feel as if I’m bout to fall again. Take it back and ask them to have a second look because the alignment still had an issue.
No charge this time and again I’m complaining to mom that something isn’t right. Mom is convinced it’s just my fear of thinking I’ll get in another accident that’s making me see or feel things. 

I lost it today when a car dashed past me and I nearly lost my balance and almost fell. Took to the mechanic two streets away and asked him to open it up so I can have a look at wtf is wrong. 🙂 
Brake lines cut, brake pads broken, wheel alignment still fucked. Mechanic said they haven’t changed a thing. And ik I wasn’t scammed by mechanic because he showed me another scooty to compare the wrong stuff in mine. He told me he’s worked at showrooms and service centres before and that he was often asked to close things right up, dust the vehicle to make it look as if they really did work on it. That’s the main reason he had quit and opened his mechanic shop.

It’s not about the money. It’s about a life. It’s unethical. How can you send a vehicle back knowing a small slip can end up taking their life.

TLDR : Two wheeler service centres don’t fix your vehicles. They tell you the problem, take money and just wash or dust the vehicle in order to make it seem like they worked on it, scamming you of your money. A scam that may take lives considering the traffic and bad drivers.