SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammed by a overseas company?
DATE: 2017-09-12
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/6zjs3a/scammed_by_a_overseas_company/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am from India. I replied to local 2nd hand sales advertisement for a 40k Indian Rupees 2nd hand music keyboard. The product would be shipped from Indonesia for 40k. The company(DJI Trading) is supposedly registered in UK &amp; Jakarta. 
I was instructed to pay 10k Rupees advance to their State Bank of India account in India.
Details:
After I paid via online via bank money transfer, and showed proof of payment, they gave a tracking no for alliancelogsnetwork.com . Later, they informed a mismatch of orders and 7 new keyboard and 5 new laptops are coming to me, which I have to sign as received, after which they can take back the shipment. He made new offer that I can take one of the new keyboard for 50k total, which I accepted. Next day, I received mail that import licence has to be made and goods are stuck in Pakistan customs. I have to pay 29k for that,which I initially refused, but later paid when they told it'll be adjusted from my 50k payment. This 29k was paid to same SBI account. New mail comes today that 42175 to be paid for insurance due to excess delivery, which I will get refunded in 24 hours after delivery.I said it is company's responsibility as they are sending excess delivery by their fault. He refuses to pay this, because he says the company's at risk as I'll have goods when delivered&amp; he has no representative in India. So company won't pay for insurance. He says to keep the goods and wait for 24 hours till I get my 42175 refund before releasing all the goods.

Hearing all this, I'm thinking whole thing is a sham and I will never receive any goods. I've already foolishly paid 39k to them and don't want to give any more money. Tomorrow morning he'll call asking for 42k payment and I'll deny, asking for more information about the shipment. The tracking website looks like fake, and he tells his company has no website. Also no particular details about shipment is given. I asked for the import license detail which I paid for, he said I'll receive it with goods.

Can anyone help me in confirming if the company is legit? And the logistics site alliancelogsnetwork.com ?

I know i'm not supposed to put address, but I need to know if this company is authentic. The guy I'm in contact with only contacts me via whatsapp. He says his company website is not ready.