SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Anonymous threats to leak my ‘nudes’ if I don’t do as they say
DATE: 2023-11-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/17kw76o/anonymous_threats_to_leak_my_nudes_if_i_dont_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

So a week back my ex and I kept getting 5-10 otp verification sms messages from different sites (like rummydangal, nnow.com etc) all at once at different times of the day. Now these messages would show that there is a link but it wasn’t actually a link it was just plaintext. (Later on I figured that there is a website that lets you do this as a prank. I even tried it with my own number and yeah it was exactly that so this was probably done to scare us.)

This happed for 4 days and then it stopped. While this was happening one of the days I received morphed images of myself from my Instagram feed where it made it seem like I’m naked. This I received on gchat by an account i suspect is one of my ex friend’s but I’m not too sure. He had been bothering me since I cut contact with him (he had a thing for me and I rejected him and then he started misbehaving sending really offensive messages where he had sexualised me, then would say some really terrible things and then apologise and ask for another chance). 

Then my ex receives an Instagram message from a random fake account with a link to his image being morphed too. Now, his images are actually not there on Instagram and was actually his dp from his google account and old Facebook account. 

Then my ex receives mails (with the confidential setting on which gmail provides) from a sender whose email address is actually not visible but just the name is visible. Which was very creepy. 
So the mail basically says that ‘we have real-time nudes of your bitch. It might seem unbelievable but it’s as real as it gets. Don’t get disturbed we will not do anything just yet.’ 

And then he receives another mail from the same account this time saying that ‘We are here for you if you need any kind of help and support. Don't hesitate to reach out.
In the next email, we will send you details of a platform where we can chat. If you choose to comply things will go smoothly and if you cause problem? A lot can go wrong. Tread carefully.’

This time we reply saying ‘why are you doing this what will you get out of it?’

Just hours later we receive another mail from the same account without an actual email address: Download an app called confide, scan the code and text. (Below it there is a QR code attached). 

Now, I haven’t sent my nudes to anyone but my ex ( and before you think, I’m 100% sure it’s not him) He’s the only guy I’ve ever been with. So it can be an empty threat but back in 2022 May, my Snapchat account got hacked into (I was very foolish) and I was logged out of my account but I got back in and immediately changed my password. So for like 10 mins my Snapchat was compromised and it might just be the person who’s doing it now. Also, while my ex and I were together, a year I again had received morphed images from some fake Instagram account and they were morphed in a very similar fashion (prolly used the same app). But nothing happened after that. So am year later, I suspect it’s the same person.

My number one suspect is the ex friend because I remember receiving texts from the gchat account but all of them were deleted texts so I can’t really remember or pin down if it was actually him but it mostly is him. The tricky thing is he is in Canada now, and I live in delhi. So I am confused what action to take? 

Should I download the app and see what they have to say? What it is they are asking for? Please someone help me. I have no idea what actions I can take or what to do.