SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Need your guidance to survive in corporate
DATE: 2024-05-30
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1d456cy/need_your_guidance_to_survive_in_corporate/

--- POST TEXT ---

It might be one of those LinkedIn posts for you (on Reddit) but this is my corporate journey.

About me, I am a private person who uses social media just to keep in touch with my people, one who is not comfortable with disclosing my identity hence the alias here. 

Professionally, I am someone who loves to do the work, loves to take care of my mental &amp; physical health plus I like to keep my personal &amp; professional life separate. I am always up for learning new skills &amp; knowledge whenever I get a chance. I am someone who believes in action, getting things done rather than doing all the talk. I am someone who doesn't like to boast about the work I do and loves to provide assistance when required.

I have worked for a few companies and one common feedback which I have received from my seniors is "Yaar you can work anywhere, you'll be an asset to any company"

Black &amp; white is my character. No room for grey.

One thing which I have learned after gathering experience in this corporate world is that it's FAKE and HOLLOW.

Gone are the days when your dedication, hardwork &amp; hunger to learn determined your future in corporate.
Now boot-licking, dirty politics, emphasizing more on showcasing your work rather than actually doing it, being a fake, gets you the ticket to climb that corporate ladder.

I have witnessed many instances wherein really honest people who love their work have been denied the recognition &amp; promotions which they deserve, rather they were looked upon as machines whose sole purpose is to work, that's it.

Folks like me who faced this in every organisation are really scared for our future. We have never been on the receiving end. Throughout my professional career I've focused more on providing value to the company and in return all I get is bad luck, false promises, fake acknowledgement and more work offcourse.

Organisations making super profits but gives a cut on your penny appraisals because managers, VPs and above need it more.

Recruiters refusing to quote budget allotted for a job role, then posts a reel on Instagram advising others to ask the recruiters the budget allotted for the role.

HRs who preach to protect the interests of their employees backs off the moment when a manager or any senior leadership needs to be questioned.

Managers love their teams as a family but provides opportunities only to their favorites.

Senior colleagues existing to practice their wannabe managerial skills by being authoritative, working less and making juniors do all the work and take all the credit in the end.

**sigh**

So why am I sharing it here?

Sitting on a chair, typing this with a smile coz even after all this, I still have high hopes and a positive intuition that there are still good companies out there where the management would be supportive. Manifesting that one day a company will give me a chance wherein I can learn, develop and sharpen up my skills further. One day I'll surely join an organisation as good as it claims to be on its website. 

Sorry if this didn't interest you.
I just wanted to let it all out so I chose Reddit.

Thanks