SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Maharashtra legislature passes Freedom of Religion Bill to check conversions through coercion, fraud
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-17
URL: https://theprint.in/india/maharashtra-legislature-passes-freedom-of-religion-bill-to-check-conversions-through-coercion-fraud/2881976/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mumbai, Mar 17 (PTI) The Maharashtra Freedom of Religion Bill 2026, which has stringent provisions to prohibit religious conversions carried out through coercion, fraud, inducement or marriage, moved a step closer to becoming a law on Tuesday with its passage in the legislative council.
The bill, which the assembly had passed by voice vote a day earlier, will now be sent to the Governor for assent.
It was tabled in the council by Minister of State for Home Pankaj Bhoyar.
Show Full Article
Notably, the opposition Shiv Sena (UBT) supported the bill, while the Congress and Samajwadi Party opposed it. Some members of the ruling ally Nationalist Congress Party also expressed reservations about some of its provisions.
Among other things, the bill provides that those involved in unlawful conversion on the pretext of marriage will be punished with imprisonment of seven years, and shall also be liable for a fine of Rs 1 lakh.
It prohibits conversion through allurement, misrepresentation, force, undue influence or any other fraudulent means. The bill also prescribes a mandatory procedure for conversion, which includes submitting a prior notice to the competent authority declaring the intent to convert.
Further, it mandates declarations by the converted person and the institute that organises such conversion to the competent authority after conversion.
According to the objects and reasons of the bill, instances of religious conversions that are forcible, involuntary or caused by influencing the free consent of citizens have been increasing, and such conversions are being carried out in an organised manner by various institutions.
“Many instances of mass conversion have come to light where gullible persons have been forcibly converted from one religion to another by offering any gift, gratification, easy money or material benefit either in cash or kind, employment, free education in school or college run by any religious body or institution, promise to marry, better lifestyle, divine healing, etc.
“These instances are causing disturbance to public order in the state and are affecting social harmony,” read the statement of objects and reasons.
Individuals or families are susceptible to unlawful conversions due to their social and economic vulnerability in society. Such vulnerable sections of society need protection from the state. The existing laws are inadequate to tackle various issues arising from such religious conversions, it said.
The bill also specifies punishment for violating the provisions, and provides for investigation of unlawful conversion by an officer not below the rank of sub-inspector of police. It also provides for rehabilitation support by the state government to victims of unlawful conversion, and maintenance and custody of children.
Bhoyar said Maharashtra at present has no law to regulate such religious conversions.
Various states, including Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, and Tamil Nadu, have already enacted similar acts prohibiting such coercive and unlawful conversions, he added.
The Opposition expressed concern over the possible misuse of the bill. They also sought to know how many conversions had taken place, prompting the government to bring the law.
Bhoyar said the intent of the law is not to target any religion and it is equally applicable to all religions. The Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita has provisions to deal with crimes like cheating and threatening. However, there was a need to have a special law for forced conversions, the minister said.
Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has already clarified that the bill is not directed against any particular religion, and it aims only to prevent religious conversions carried out through force, fraud or inducement, he said.
NCP (SP) MLC Shashikant Shinde said it is necessary to demonstrate that the bill is not against any community. There is also a need to introduce a law for maintaining harmony in society and take action against those who spread hate, Shinde added.
Shiv Sena (UBT)’s Anil Parab also demanded action against those who make hate speeches.
Almost all Opposition members who spoke on the bill mentioned the 60-day notice period and said it could lead to incitement of sentiments and make those who want to convert vulnerable to pressure.
Parab said the 60-day notice period breaches confidentiality and privacy.
Governor-nominated member Idris Naikwadi, who belongs to the ruling NCP, also expressed concern over the bill and said some people can exploit the notice period to incite sentiments, especially in rural areas. The notice period be reduced to seven days, he said.
Amol Mitkari, another NCP leader, expressed a similar concern.
Bhoyar said the 60-day notice provision is intended to make sure that the conversion is taking place willfully.
Members of the BJP and the Shiv Sena stressed the need to bring this law citing “love jihad” cases.
Naikwadi questioned the need for a law when Article 25 of the Constitution gives freedom of religion. He said the intent of the bill is good, but history shows that such laws are misused. “There is a fear among people that they will be harassed under the pretext of law,” he added.
BJP’s Pravin Darekar said that there was a public demand for such a law. PTI PR NSK KRK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.