SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: I'm feeling like dieing. Please someone help me.
DATE: 2023-10-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/175ccw6/im_feeling_like_dieing_please_someone_help_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

My story is very complicated and lengthy that I don't know where to start and stop at. 

But my main issue in my life is my marriage. 

I am a single daughter, an engineering graduate from 2011 ,passed out with distinction and a MNC campus job in hand. 

Next 4 years of my life went like any MNC worker here in blore. PG stay, new found freedom and money, friends and office. And a normal one sided love story where a close friend of mine liked me and I didn't like him back that way. Things turned ugly when it reached my parents, they shifted to blore. I quit my job as I was unable to bear the constant arguments, fights and unresolvable situations. The guy married someone else suddenly out of blue and he went away with his life. And I was a golden student, without a job and with parents at home(who already have more than average mental health issues). I started loosing my mental peace and motivation in life. But kept Hoping il take a break n get back to life/career. I was doing a course to get back to my career. 

Meanwhile my marriage talks were going on from when I was 23. Matrimonial visits was as common as Netflix series. @27 I said yes to a guy. He seemed ok by the time he spoke on call and although I didn't wanted to even talk to him before. I did it just for my mom's force. 

The guy said: I believe in freedom, you working is your choice if you want you can there is no force, I beleive in equality, I live with my siblings like friends and don't interfere in each other's businesses. I am moving to Canada, I'm working in a startup because me n my brother are planning to open a startup of our own. I'm working on a website of my own like my brother. My brother works in Huawei and roamed allover the world already, sis in law is double graduate from Australia and well settled. Sis is married to an engineer working in UK company who stays half here n half time in UK, cousin works in infosys and is in Germany. Now i want to get married to kannada girl(his brother married to a Pune girl). And moving to Canada. And after I move the plan is such that everyone of my family moves as well. 

We enquired and we had close common people with the family. His bro in law(let's says x) is my father's colleagues son (X 'family and our family know each from long time, from same native, although not thick friends). Guys mother's brother works in the same Bank as my father(although had never met physically before but had common known people). So we went ahead and fixed the marriage. 

As much as the marriage dates were near we started having issues. Some were their mistakes n somewhere ours so we tried to compromise n get the marriage done. 

After the marriage he is nothing as he had told about himself. All the other details of all other family members were correct except himself. 

He never knew how to even go to Canada, he married me because I had good academics n he expected my salary will help him have a lifestyle like his brother who works in Huawei and roams all around the world. 

He started manipulations, I quit my job after 2 months of marriage for various reasons and after that there was no bonding between us. He struggled infront of my eyes to even pay rent, and basic things, manipulated me, Gaslighted me. When I went to depression because of all these he started rumour against me with everyone that I'm in depression due to my past love failure (he knew because I was honest from day 1). I am a single daughter (whose parents already have their own mental health issues and are not mature enough to handle things). No cousins, or uncle n aunts. So he manipulation me much n much and within 5 years of marriage I had already given him lakhs n lakhs as he was always in need of money and also in parallel visiting every therapist in the city. 

I was breaking down and broke down 1 day where I cried for 5 days continuously so he couldn't tolerate and beat me up n threw me to my parents house n ran away n hid. His family started telling he has ran away due to the constant fights between us( he was sitting In thier home only yet they lied). He filed for divorce. I alone went ahead to court. Attended counseling sessions there n convinced him to come back. He came back after 6 months with conditions like I have to work , I have to be with his family etc. And I started living with fake normal front n broke inside.

After few months I found out the chat that he lied his age, he flunked in his engg way toooooo many times and had backlogs for 2 years, flunked in PU, breaks in the middle. He wasn't doing much in his life. He wasn't getting success anywhere and he turned 33 his Family supported him to get married by fake details, fake horoscope, fake everything n married to me because il work. And he was anrgy all these years I didn't work n didn't give him the life he thought he will get. He never liked(infact hated) how I look. He never cared/ never had the maturity to even understand what to like in a person or not. Like he never gave a thought more than girl should work. 

And although in all of this step by step he is changing, for me I am unable to forgive him. 

Constantly I'm battling with myself , crying, I have hid this from my parents (they are really not in a situation to go through all of this). Haven't told anyone apart from 2 friends n a therapist. 

I'm losing my shit. I'm 33, he is turning 40. I haven't lived for last 6 years and don't have hopes anymore also in life. 

I didn't go back to work for various reasons. One was he used to take all of my money by emotional manipulations by saying there is no Money for rent, expenses etc. I didn't wanted him to feed off of me so I quit my job so he can understand his responsibility. 

I am feeling aimless and whole of my life looks like a bad dream il get up one day From. I'm unable to accept him as my husband, we are not having physical relationship from last 3 years.