SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Lucky Draw Scam
DATE: 2022-05-09
SCORE: 63
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/ulw77v/lucky_draw_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Few months ago, I visited an exhibition and there was a counter where you had to fill a form (couples only) for lucky draw. 

2weeks later I received a call regarding the exhibition saying that we won the lucky draw. They asked us to collect a silver coin, 2 movie tickets and a 15k worth voucher (lucky draw prize). 
Thinking that it's a scam, I fled the scene. 

Two days later the called me again and insisted me to collect the prize- their actual quote "Sir you don't have to bring any money, please just collect the prize"

They sent me a location on WhatsApp and I went to the location with my family. 

It was a holiday package company( Named Fala Holidays and Packages). They asked us to have a conversation with their manager(Take over manager). The manager(one Mr. Rahil Pasha) and few employees laid out there holiday package schemes and the discussion went on for an hour. 
In the end, my family and I decided that we'd discuss the same among our relatives, plan and then take any further decisions. To which the manager said, "you have to take the decision now, else you won't get the prize" 

I feel disgusted to say that I fell for their marketing strategy. We opted a 75k package (which sounded promising). Paid a down payment of 15k and the rest in EMI. They gave me a silver coin, and voucher (that looked pretentious).

As soon as I returned to the car, I had this strange feeling that I've been ripped off. 

Anyways, reached Home, I surfed the internet for reviews on the company. It did have some good reviews. To be sure, I even tried reading the negative ones as well. There were plenty of negative reviews saying that the company is a scam, thay don't respond at all, they lure people in the name of lucky draw, etc etc. 

I immediately called the manager and asked him if I could cancel the membership and refund the down payment of 15k. To which he said, "sir you have to avail our services in order for us to refund" 
There was a lot of back and forth, until the manager agreed to refund the amount, said " You can collect a cheque (refund) in the month of April" 

I called the manager in the month of April to confirm again and he told me that the cheque isn't ready yet and that he'd call me the following week. Since then he's never called, never answered any of my calls, until few days back when I texted him on WhatsApp. 
Says "please visit the office, I'm not available" 

Visiting the office, I met a new guy incharge says "Rahil has resigned from our office" 
"We cannot refund the money unless you opt our services" 

TL,DR - lured me(saying that I was the lucky draw winner) into paing 15k to a holiday package company, realised that it's a pathetic company with poor service record, called the manager(take over manager) for cancellation of the membership, lot of back and forth, finally told me that the manager has resigned, the new manager incharge says "please avail the service inorder to get the refund" 

On a side note- I have all the phone conversations with them recorded. Don't know if that's enough evidence to approach a consumer court.

Company name - Fala Holidays and Packages located in Banasawadi 

Beware folks, next time you hear "Lucky Draw", you know what's to be done.