SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Food Digger Scam, Legal Advice needed for further actions.
DATE: 2024-06-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dawuzd/food_digger_scam_legal_advice_needed_for_further/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is the first time I'm posting here, I'm not sure how long or brief I should keep it.

I (21M) matched with a girl (24F, that's what she claimed at least) on Tinder. The profile had photos with the face not clearly visible, and the girl said she's not on Instagram, because of strict parents and no privacy at home. So, we shared numbers and she suggested a café/bar in RDC (Raj Nagar) for the date. Her number didn't show up her name when searched on TrueCaller so it felt sketchy, and I asked her about it. She said it used to be her brother's number. I was still doubtful so I asked her to meet in a mall instead of whichever café/bar she wanted at first. She agreed for Gaur Central Mall. I arrived there, and she was late by around 20 minutes. But she didn't come in the mall, she called me outside the mall when she arrived (I know at this point I should have been smart enough to just back off and leave). Then she walked me to a café/bar just beside the mall (I didn't realize the mall was so close to the bar she had originally planned for). The bar had around 4-5 customers only so maybe the bar's major source of income are these food diggers. I overviewed the menu, and the prices seemed okay for the most part, she order vodka shots, etc and I was expecting the bill to be around 2-4k. Then suddenly the waiter brings in fireshots (fancy word for a Phuljhari Gun that lasts for about 30 seconds) and she said she ordered it (I don't know when), and then later she ordered a big Hookah too (Here also, I should have been smart enough to check for the price, instead of assuming the general price). She had said that she'll stay till around 8 PM. At around 6 PM I said we've eaten enough and the bill came. And it was Rs. 20894. The stupid fireshots were 8k. an the vodka shots were 3.2k and the Hookah was 4k, and the bill mentioned an entry fee of 4k which I had no idea about either (it's not a club, since when do Bars have such entry fees, and that too, it was not a stag entry). There were 4-5 men in the bar and I ended up having to pay the bill. 

The moment I paid the bill, she had to go. I asked her that 21k is too much, please split the bill. She said that she doesn't have anything and she'll send me 5k after reaching home by borrowing from her brother (5k is too less though). By now I knew for certain I've been scammed, and obviously she wasn't going send anything after reaching home, and since her tinder profile didn't really have her face properly either. I decided to her on camera. When she was talking (or pretending to talk) to her brother, I tried recording her, she got a glimpse of it and turned around (you can very visibly see in the video she tried to hide her face the moment she saw it). Since then I kept trying to get her face on camera (in the name of photo of our date) and she kept hiding her face. We came out of the bar and she was rushing to an auto and I still trying to record her. And then out of nowhere, a guy comes and start behaving like a thug claiming to be the girl's brother's friend (who just happened to be there). He was asking me "kon hai tu, abhi batata hu, etc etc", and I tried recording him too (although I was scared of getting my phone snatched, so I closed it after 3-4 seconds). Right after that, he hit me in the face and I got a deep cut on my nose which will leave a permanent mark on my face. If this was a little bit to the left or the right I could have lost my eye (I don't know if this comes under grievous hurt). All this happened in near Gaur Central Mall and a many Rikshaw wale etc saw all this happen. After getting hit, I saw them panicking about the video, and I left from there asap with the nearest Rikshaw available.

Later that night, the girl (lets call her K) tried contact me again, I blocked her. The next day, she texted me from a different number, I blocked that too. The next day, her friend (lets call her J) called me (she was getting calls from this friend during the "date" too). I picked up and she was asking me to explain what happened claiming that K (the girl) was beaten up by her brother and is in hospital, I cut the call and blocked her again. The next day, J called me again, and I cut the call and asked to talk on chat only (so that it stays). I don't know if I should attach the entire SS of the chat here or not. But there crux was that, she said that she will refund me 5k and I should delete the videos. I said 5k is not even half the money, and I won't just let you go at 5k after the hurt in the face and the medical cost I had to face. I asked for full refund, she said that she just doesn't have it and won't give it. I said that I'll have to register an FIR, then she went on bragging about how her brother is in UP police, she has lawyers in the family, and that she has worked with the judge of Tis Hazari (She deleted this part immediately, but I still have it bcz of [this](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=in.isunny.antidelete&amp;pcampaignid=web_share)). She then said that 5k is all she'll give, take it or leave it. I said 5k is too less, then she left it at ki "jo krna hai kr lo fir" ("do whatever you want then")

She said that I was hit in the face because I was getting clingy with the girl (I was not, I was at a distance, I was just asking her to not leave yet and atleast get a photo) and she said that if I go to the police, both of us will get in trouble so I should just understand and back off (she deleted this msg immediately, but I have it still).

Through out the chat she kept saying that it was a normal date and trying to deny that it was a scam. And I kept pointing out things that clearly show that it was a setup. For instance, a genuine person will not be like "take 5k and please delete the video".

In the end I told her that I hadn't done anything wrong to be hit in the face and a lot of people saw it and if you're so confident then please stop contacting me from now on unless you are willing to pay. This was last night. She has not replied since.

 
Now I am not sure how I should proceed from now on,

* should I just let it be on the belief that if I won't do anything she won't either ? Will that be the best option for me considering all things, and that I am more mad about the mark on my face than 21k.
* should I go ahead, register an FIR, tell the story and show the videos to the police ? In this I am not sure what if happen if that girl decides to claim false molestation case on me, she did already try to threaten me with that in the chat. And if so, how would the police react ? I have a perfectly clean record, and with a very strong academic/professional background, and I don't know if this gets twisted then will it be worth going through the unforeseen circumstances that might come from this.

Also, I read multiple articles about this, turns out many people have been scammed like this, but nowhere was it mentioned what to do after getting scammed ?

Let me know if my background or any information about me is relevant for you to suggest anything, I'll make that information available for you. Also, let me know if I should post the chats/videos here. Any suggestions are extremely needed. Thank you!