SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: AT&amp;T Scam using legit AT&amp;T short code
DATE: 2024-03-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1bjyl5n/att_scam_using_legit_att_short_code/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: Indian scammers are able to spoof AT&amp;T’s legitimate short code number “38344” to obtain verification codes sent to your phone and make changes to your account… if you let them. Continue reading to learn from my mistakes. 

Today I received a call from an Indian scammer pretending to be from AT&amp;T. When he asked if I wanted to lower my bill, I knew better but didn’t do better. The scammer’s English was pretty good, and it isn’t unheard of to speak to someone with an accent at AT&amp;T since their call centers are outsourced. What did seem suspicious though, was the local area code he called me from. I asked right away why AT&amp;T would be calling me from a local number, and he said it was an extension from one of the local stores that the promo was running in. Sounds like the dumbest excuse in hindsight, but I did recently purchase a new phone in January of this year, so this all really helped his case seem more legit.

He immediately follows up with how he will be verifying my identity by sending a code to my mobile number if I accept. I wearily said ok and to my surprise, the verification code came through under short code “38344”. This caused the text to pop up in an existing thread with previous verification codes that I really did request from AT&amp;T in the past. The syntax of the text matched the exact format of the other verification code texts, and even mentioned for me to contact AT&amp;T if I didn’t authorize it (which I technically just did). He then asked me to confirm the code I received, which I did and have done before when calling into AT&amp;T. Let me be very clear… the steps this scammer took are almost identical to the steps that some real AT&amp;T representatives take when verifying your account, which let my guard down a bit and also made it so much harder to determine that this was a scam. 

After that, he confirmed my first and last name and then gave some spiel about how much lower my bill will be blah blah blah. He said his name was “Oscar Edwards” and went on to provide his “Employee ID”. This put up red flags, because Oscar Edwards just sounds like such a fake ass name. And what AT&amp;T rep has ever given you their employee ID unprovoked? He then asked me to provide my 4-digit account security code which sent up more red flags. I knew once I provided this level of detail, if it were a scam I would be doomed. I told him I would prefer to call AT&amp;T directly and provide that code. He started becoming more pushy, saying if I hang up I would lose the promotion, which we all know is the biggest red flag. 

At this point I was pretty sure I was dealing with a scammer, so I played dumb saying I didn’t remember the code and needed to search for it all while signing into my account to change my password and increase my security. I wanted to keep him on the phone so that he felt like there was hope in scamming me, which allowed me the time to act quickly before he did the inevitable. The whole time, he was getting impatient saying that he can just give me a new security code if I didn’t remember mine. This guy was so desperate that he didn’t even realize what he said defeated the whole purpose of a security code. As if I needed any more proof, this was something I knew AT&amp;T would never say.

After I changed everything, I hung up and immediately called AT&amp;T directly. As the woman pulled up my account, she confirmed it was a scam because AT&amp;T would never call customers over a promotion. As we were speaking, maybe 3 minutes after hanging up, I received an email stating that my service was suspended. It seems like all the scammers were able to accomplish was suspending only my line (out of 4 lines) and removing a promotional discount that I receive. The representative also saw it happen in real time, and was able to restore my account back to normal. As I was speaking to the rep, I received 3 new calls from 3 different local numbers which all conveniently do not ring when I try to call back (for vengeance 😈). 

So, all in all, I got scammed. I wonder what could still happen as a result of providing my verification code to them, but I’m grateful it didn’t go any further than that. 

My takeaway is to just be extra cautious because the scammers are getting more and more crafty. Eventually they do hang themselves if you get them frustrated enough, but it’s much better to leave unknown numbers alone and trust your gut instincts.