SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Women comfortably chilling in men's trial room
DATE: 2024-12-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1hfl731/women_comfortably_chilling_in_mens_trial_room/

--- POST TEXT ---

What is with men who bring their respective women in the trail room for selection. I've been seeing this at almost all the major shopping outlets/ malls/ brands. It is uncomfortable and annoying when you can't try out clothes in peace.

And these educated morons (Yes! All educated people who lack basic civic sense) when asked to wait outside the trial rooms, fight with us on how is their presence in OUR DRESSING ROOM is making us uncomfortable. And the idiotic guys who says it's their wife/ gf and she can wait, then take her inside the trial room na if you cannot decide the clothes to buy for yourself (why are most men so indecisive ughh)

Imagine if the genders where reversed, then it would be Harassment case for the men and immediate national issue but why are women so comfortable? Who gave them the leniency to stepover our decency? And on top of that the audicity to argue when asked to leave the dressing room and wait outside it. When I asked a woman to please wait outside, her man comes over and says she's my wife she can stay here and help me decide. Aree what do you mean, she's your wife not my wife, why the fuck should I care? 

Except for H&amp;M, Westside (maybe Zara) rest all the places women literally stand outside the guy's booth or are casually sitting inside the changing section and men have to walk past them. Even the workers when we complain say we're tired of asking them everytime but the women don't f*in listen? Aree yaar if it was a man you would tell at them to leave, why not do the same till they leave? What double standard man.
Honestly it's a common thing for me to pick a fight everytime and complain to the store manager.

Have some civic sense, common sense and respect our dignity too. We are men doesn't mean we've got no insecurities, shame, concerns too. And the guys please grow some balls and if your partner doesn't have the patience for you to walk to them to show what you've worn, please stay back at home with your partner, online shop and change as much as you want infront of her at your own home!!

Please keep the women away from men's dressing rooms for the love of God!!!!