SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Got scammed by a cricket website after being asked to write articles. Can anyone help?
DATE: 2024-05-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1cle7gp/got_scammed_by_a_cricket_website_after_being/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a cricket content writer based in Delhi. I found an internship listed on Internshala for the role of a cricket content writer and found the owner on LinkedIn. I connected with him and asked him for details regarding the work. The owner sent me his contact number and asked me to communicate on WhatsApp. On WhatsApp, he asked me about my experience and sample articles. I have a decent amount of experience working in the industry, so I sent him the link for the articles that I have written. He told me that he would assign 2-3 articles daily and pay 12K per month for the work. I accepted the offer as I was in dire need of money. This conversation happened on December 23.

On December 24, he sent me the login details to his website and assigned three articles for the next day. As December 25 was Christmas, I told him that I'd be able to start the work on December 26.

I started writing for the website on December 27. I wrote 2-3 articles almost daily. In between this, he sent me an email asking for my contact details as he had lost them.

On February 6, I asked him to release the payment for the articles I wrote in December, January, and February. He mentioned that the payment would be made within 2-3 days via UPI, and I sent him my UPI ID. 

On February 13, I asked him about the payment status, to which he replied the payment would be done by February 15. 

On February 19, I told him that I was going through some personal issues and requested to clear the dues. I stopped writing on February 15. He said that there have been some issues with the internal payment system and sponsorships. He asked me to wait for a week and assured me that the payment would be done.

On March 1, he said there was a casualty in his home, and he was not at home. For the next few days, I kept asking for the payment but didn't get a reply.

On March 15, I saw that my account was deactivated, and all the articles that I wrote were deleted. I confronted him, and he said that the articles were assigned to the admin section. This was done to secure the dashboard, as the website will be out of operation for the next few days. 

On March 27, I called his number from my uncle's phone, and he picked me up for the first time. He never picked up my call. He told my uncle that he would be releasing 5K within a week.

On April 7, he asked me to wait till the 20th, and the payment will be made. 

On April 20, he said to wait a week more and that the payment would be made.

I have not received any update from his side since April 20.

Between these dates, he updated the website's logo. Obviously, this was done by a graphics designer. I don't know if that guy received payment for the work.

The articles are published on his website. He is active on all social media platforms, and the articles are shared across them.

The most funny part is that he has made a hiring post on Internshala for content writers. He is offering INR 5K plus incentives for this role and has promised that the writer will be paid a performance-linked incentive as well. 

His company is registered with the MCA. He and his brother are the directors of the firm. I have the company's Certificate of Incorporation and MOA, which were filed with the MCA.

Is there any way to get my money from this person? Also, can he be stopped from running this website so that writers can be saved from this scam?