SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Financial, tax, identity fraud by family, while I am abroad.
DATE: 2020-11-23
SCORE: 17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/jz9tga/financial_tax_identity_fraud_by_family_while_i_am/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a bit of a mess, so bear with me. TL;DR at bottom.

So back in 2017, I found out my father was committed tax fraud in my name: he was channeling his income through bank accounts he opened in my name and then didn't pay taxes on that income. **I have not used those accounts.** There was a lot of abuse in our family, and for some psychotic reason, my father used to boast about forgering our signatures. I was abroad for my studies and then work. In that 10 year gap, he kept pushing further and further with his crimes: he got an Aadhaar Card without my knowledge, opened bank accounts, evaded taxes. I don't know what else he might have done, but with other family members he has gone as far as falsifying their ID documents, sometimes with a completely different person on the documents. He might have trading accounts in my name.

The only reason I know this is because I got a notice from IT department over these issues. I flew back to India, made him close the bank accounts - but he said I have to keep some accounts open, because he was paying the penalty on the taxes through the PMGKY programme, and they require me to keep the account open for 4 years for some reason. I don't know how true that is.

Recently, I am seeing some more illegal activities: money being moved around in those accounts, and he generated my Aadhaar card without my knowledge or permission. We have had some bitter altercations over it, and I still have a hard time believing that a human being could be this much of a scoundrel.

Anyway, I have been trying to get a lawyer in India in my city. But I am living abroad in Europe. On top of COVID, there is also a medical condition I am dealing with, so going back to India is difficult. But I think I need to file a case against him, to 1) find out *all* the illegal activities he's committing in my name, and 2) proceed with civil/criminal case against him. I have contacted some lawyers by email, but they want to have a consultation at the very least on phone. I have explained them my case and tried to arrange something through Email/Skype etc., but somehow they don't have that channel of communication...

So what are my options? Is it worth pursuing a case? I only hear terrible things about Indian legal system, how the lawyers suck you dry and the case goes nowhere. On top of that, I know my father has bribed lawyers, even judges, before to get out of other legal mess he is in. So he is used to this and at one point stooped to bragging about how much money he has, should I consider a legal case.

**TL;DR: Father has been committing tax, finance and identity fraud in my name for a few decades now. I am abroad and he isn't stopping, so I am considering the possibility of a legal case.**