SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The foundation of "trust and understanding" to do business in India
DATE: 2025-05-05
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1kf71ss/the_foundation_of_trust_and_understanding_to_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just reconciling the experience of working with people in India as opposed to other countries.

Having lived and worked abroad for almost a decade and then working a few years here in India thereafter - I find that the hardest thing about working/doing business here in India is not the lack of professionalism, the tardiness, the low productivity, the red tape, the taxes etc. It is that people are inherently not trustworthy.

Now, I'm not trying to generalize all Indians as cheating, unreliable people and that all foreign countries are great. But what I'm struck by is the fact that people in India always talk about how "in India, business is done through mutual trust and understanding". What trust and understanding? 

What you see is never what you get. Short changing is the norm. People don't pay on time for goods/services, but want those goods/services immediately. Overpromising and underdelivering is the default. Scams are rampant.

The worst part is, I find myself never being able to believe what somebody says or assures at face value. Because 9 times out of 10, I know they will not honour their word or deliver on what they say. It may not even be that they mean to do it. It's just accepted with the "chalta hai" attitude if you miss a deadline, if you don't deliver what is required as per a contract, or if you produce something subpar/low quality. 

This has not been my experience in countries where I've worked like US, UK and some European countries. Commitments, long term relationships and contracts are actually honoured. In India, "trust and understanding" seems to me like a license for the other guy to walk over you while you should just take it, because apparently that's how business runs here.

I honestly think that for us to grow as a country, we need to first grow out of this petty, small minded mindset.