SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Recruiter Scam or Nah?
DATE: 2019-08-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/codngq/recruiter_scam_or_nah/

--- POST TEXT ---

Background: I work in tech, this is a big company I've been wanting to work for. I'm pretty active on Linkedin and 9/10 recruiters who cold e-mail and message me end up being local firms that are legit. Recently I got a message from a recruiter from "Xoriant". Had a position for me and I was open to talk. Here's a list of events that happened and the red flags just started piling up, however I'm still not completely sure if it's a scammer of if it's just a really horrible recruiter at a really horrible company. I'll also list the reasons that's still making me doubtful about reporting him. I'm spending time on this because he's also connected with a lot of my connections and colleagues on linkedin and if it is indeed the case, I want to be able to notify everyone to be cautious.

1. Usually recruiters are busy and would schedule a time in the upcoming days/weeks, he just left his number and said call anytime.
2. Usually recruiters will ask for qualifications and a phone screening before determining that you are eligible to be submitted for the role, he picked up and said you look like you can do the job right away and asked if he can submit my application. 
3. He has the thickest Indian accent and I can barely tell what he is saying, but his last name on linkedin is "Collins" and I know for a fact it is very typical for Indian scammers to give themselves English last names.
4. Then asked for my social security number, when I said I will not give that out, he said "that's fine I can just make up one"
5. Then asked for my birthday, when I said I will not give that out, he said "that's fine I can make up a year"
6. He said this job will pay $35/hr and there is no benefits but I know for a fact from applying directly there they would be paying me at least $45 with benefits.
7. WHILE ON THE PHONE, he sends me a RTR (Right to represent) contract that states my name the job description (which seemed legit, could be copy pasted from actual company's similar jobs), and asked me to respond to the email simply replying "I agree".
8. At this point I'm really suspicious and told him give me a couple days to consider (which is usually not an issue and they would happily comply), but he got really impatient and kept raising his voice for me to "just reply you agree"
9. Every message we've exchanged from this point on had so many typos and wrong grammar on his end and I've never seen recruiters like that.
10. It's been 2 days since then and he's been blasting my phone 3-4 times a day which I did not answer. I've never met a recruiter this aggressive and desperate.

I eventually got him to calm down and I was so sure he's a scammer at this point, I wanted to drag him on and phish him back so I can eventually expose and report him, and that's why I'm here now. Why did I not report him right away? Well I did some research on his profile and his company with BBB, Scam checkers, Whois, and there are still some things that seems pretty legit, and I don't want to accuse a good man. After all this is not the typical email scam that seems too good to be true so I know to avoid. The following are reasons why I'm doubtful. Please let me know if you guys think he is a real scammer and I need to report him. If he indeed is, and you got ideas for me to fuck with him and his company, let me know too.

1. He's calling from a Sunnyvale number. (I know you can spoof it) It actually matches all other phone numbers posted on their company page.
2. BBB does not have records of fraud or scams for them.
3. Whois/scam checker showed a domain registered years ago, and it is hosted under Godaddy right now, and in fact is registered in Sunnyvale I believe. Here is the result [https://www.scamadviser.com/check-website/xoriant.com](https://www.scamadviser.com/check-website/xoriant.com) There were a lot of negative highlights like "contact email is a free one" but the site still deemed it as "probably safe"
4. They are registered on glassdoor with high reviews. 
5. The guy was actually using a @xoriant.com email (Which i know you can fake as well)
6. Xoriant Linkedin Page is also constantly updated with last recent activity being 3 days ago which is pretty active.

The pictures of the company are all Indian and the office seems to be based in Indian as well but everything is registered in Sunnyvale. I don't know if this is a team of scammers who are just really professional and taking it to the next level to create and register a website, linkedin page and legit company in the U.S. to do their dirty work or if I'm just accusing some innocent Indian recruiter who is just honestly bad at his job. Everything is too suspicious but I also don't want to make the mistake of accusing an innocent person of being a scammer because like I said this is not your typical "you have a gift card" or "this is the IRS" scam. 

Please shed some light on this, thanks in advance. 

tl;dr: Recruiter raising red flags everywhere, but no scam/fraud records online and company seems too legit for me to pull the trigger. Eval needed.