SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Can a person get engaged without consent in India? 
DATE: 2024-02-29
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1b2hupi/can_a_person_get_engaged_without_consent_in_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

You could just answer the question off the title but if you want more details basically… 

I wasn’t lying when I said this kidnapping has also involved arranging a marriage for me, I don’t know what to do because thankfully this nightmare (I mean being captive,No hate to India❤️) is over SOON 🤲🏽, like couple days soon…

Stuck on what to do because a few weeks ago I met the AM family first time and they’re very nice people.

They always offer to buy me anything &amp; they are quite funny too and chill (My friends I made in India through reddit have told me AM families tend to do this to make you feel obligated sometimes to marry they’re daughter/sister etc like peer pressure bribes) 

Anyways fast forward I had my first “Date” with this AM woman…

I would not consider it a first date at all because both our families came to the restaurant 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂💀 

I Kid you not I greet her family then they sit me at the table next to theirs, bring the girl to sit &amp; meet me, not even 1 fucking minute into our sitting my grandma grabs a chair and sits beside me facing her 😂😂😂😂 talk about first date turned job interview/interrogation…

 Poor girl, I could feel the peer pressure so bad I had to explain to her off rip “PLEASE Don’t let ANYONE force you to get married. If you say No to Anyone, even me, They need to accept that!” 

She was happy when I explained that, I spoke entirely in English because My Punjabi is not fluent but also so my grandmother doesn’t catch every word. She responded to my questions in English so I can tell she understands it decently but doesn’t speak fluent. 

I asked her little to no questions because this was my first AM experience ever and the vibe was just not natural at all to me, just awkward, I was able to make her laugh still but she was on the same boat of being shy.

The only thing she said to me (besides answering my few questions with yes or no) 
was “What’s your name?” All she asked me was that 😂😂😂

it was just the worst first impression ever in my opinion not because of me or her but the situation given 🤷🏽‍♂️.

she is a nice at heart girl I can tell, pretty &amp; for sure probably smart, But this felt weird all together (We even got funny looks from the restaurant 😂) 

Just 2 people sitting at a table with a poker face while my grandma thinks shes cupid.

After the “Date” Her family took photos of me &amp; her together then we part ways…

We haven’t even exchanged #’s 🤣🤣🤣 Only her family has my # and we barely talk just hey how are you over whatsapp. 

Our families are gatekeeping this shit so hard I DON’T even know if she’s on board for marriage truly. My grandma asked if she likes me &amp; wants the AM she said yes but it could be out of fear…

Fast forward 1 weeks since, Tonight the AM girls cousin came to my kidnappers house &amp; started talking about engagement… saying she now has a Ring &amp; dress, they just need to grab my ring size &amp; a suit… they already bought all their suits &amp; they want me matching her brothers suits.

BRO I’M FUCKING SCARED. 

I haven’t even spoken to this girl alone or asked her questions about life or know her at all!

They heard I’m leaving to Canada very soon &amp; I’m assuming they want me to do the engagement before I fly back next month

So here’s my questions/concerns. 

1. Is engagement consensual in India? I’m a born canadian citizen if that helps, how does this work? Like do we sign papers or just say the words. 

2. What should I do? I want to get to know her first but I don’t want her as my fiancé after 1 fake date &amp; no phone calls 😂 I’m also a man who tends to look at his options before choosing &amp; this is the first &amp; only girl my family has presented to me, they have told me if I don’t like her or we don’t work out they can show me more options.
But AM is something I probably can’t dodge until I fly back &amp; move out

3. This would be tough to say but please maybe a lady can answer, what do you think she’s thinking or honestly feels? (The AM girl) Being that awkward “date” &amp; her family so eager without us even exchanging #’s (They said we’ll exchange #’s soon &amp; “mature”) Also if it helps your answer, before I met her, the family came over &amp; asked her if she wants to FaceTime me thru their phone &amp; she declined, assuming she’s shy but maybe she DOESN’T want me 🤷🏽‍♂️ 

4. I’m leaving back to Canada very soon… Should I play along with the engagement if it happens then go to Canada &amp; just do me? obviously call her to vibe and talk, because the LAST thing I want is to say no to a peer pressure family engagement &amp; it results in me missing my flight back 🥲. (I tend to think the worst scenarios because why would they waste thousands on the ticket I know) if you guys think I should speak up before I fly back what should I say and how should I say it? (Very nervous here)

5. Mainly for the ladies to answer, If I’m doing AM I want to see all the options I have then talk to each of them thoroughly &amp; see who I vibe with best, do you talk to different AM options at once? Or do you talk to one then explain to them you need time to see &amp; then move on talking to the next, then decide? If this question seems like a fuckboy/douchebag thing then skip it. 

Thank you for reading❤️

(My final post on reddit before deleting my account will soon be an AMA! I want to shine light on kidnapping &amp; trafficking. Just waiting for my safe landing, I don’t care about getting my family locked up when I’m back because I believe only god can judge what they’ve done, Stay tuned!)