SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Ex girlfriend literally harassing me
DATE: 2023-04-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/12iafi8/ex_girlfriend_literally_harassing_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I was in a relationship with this girl in my 12th grade, in 2021 while me and her being minors. She broke up with me in early 2022. After the breakup, I tried talking to her online and in school as well but she would never talk then after sometime, I stopped doing it. In April, last year, I received a phone call from an unknown number who claimed that I sent her (my ex) vulgar texts and that I should stop doing so. Then that guy sent me some screenshots of the snapchat messages and neither was that my id nor did I texted her anything. My elder brother handled the situation and then I never received any phone call from that number. Meanwhile, I was having pre boards at school and that girl would harass me in every way possible. Sometimes, she would spread rumors about me and she even used to talk shit about my mother. I couldn't literally do anything in the fear that I am a boy and she is a girl and no one would ever listen to a boy so I always tolerated and stayed silent. Then, I passed school and no such thing happened until today. Today, as I woke up, I received a phone call from again, an unknown number. This guy also claimed that I texted her vulgar messages and I should stop doing so. Again, this was a snapchat screenshot with the same name as mine but not the same username. I have blocked this girl from every social app and I have even blocked her number. Why would I even text her at the first place? This time, I raged over the phone call and he was convinced that it really wasn't me. 

Someone please suggest what should I do? I didn't felt like sharing this with anyone but then I remembered the fake harassment cases filed against men. I have ambitions and very much to achieve in life and I don't want to put myself in such circumstances. I thought of changing my phone number but all my documents are linked with this and it would be a hassle to get a new phone number. Please suggest what should be done.