SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How can the authorities catch somebody or a group of people committing fraud or scamming others from another country when the victims affected don't live in the same jurisdiction?
DATE: 2024-05-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1cxwnxu/how_can_the_authorities_catch_somebody_or_a_group/

--- POST TEXT ---

It does not matter how secure your account is or how many measures you have or enforced or the bank implements, be realistic: nothing stops these bad actors 100%, accept that. There is no such thing as a "scammer-proof" account, even corporations have become susceptible to it. People still become victims of it if they hack into the account and steal everything. You can have a high-security or a military-grade bank account, but even then you will still be a target, as fraudsters nowadays remain indifferent about how secure your account is, who the owner is, etc.

How can you refund it if they took full control? Bad actors can use all their IT expertise they have to breach it in any way, you can implement many controls on your account as you like but does not completely stop or deter these people, just accept that there's no "invincible" method of keeping it protected forever. Even if you are notified, they still access it regardless of how you try to stop it, you can even wait 9152+ days until you get your money back, but your details are still compromised, so you have to completely erase everything and start anew so fraudsters don't reuse that again.

It doesn't matter if you have PayPal or not, as scammers are becoming more intelligent in creating realistic emails and format on their email body and writing perfectly mimicking every fine detail of a legitimate one, so you need a good eye and be observant of every single detail. This is why people who are not good at distinguishing between a realistic clone mimicking every fine detail and a genuine one are easily tricked and deceived unless you are a tech junkie or born in a generation where people are very aware of the realistic fakes out there as older people fall for this trick.

I mean fraud itself is a crime, but the issue with enforcing the conviction is that it's difficult to arrest them, as the perpetrators are based overseas and do not share an extradition treaty at all, it's like if a scammer or fraudster from another country (i.e. Brazil, Philippines, India - even China) commits fraud on a victim living in nations like the USA, Canada, or Australia. You can have a show like 60 minutes heading there with their crew to confront the fraudsters, but again they are not the police.

For example, Westerners who own credit cards or bank accounts have their money stolen or accounts compromised by the ones committing all the fraud along with scamming others are based in countries like Nigeria (or any other country notorious for fraud), so the victims hit a dead end never getting their money back, having to accept that the fraudsters will get away with it due to being out of the jurisdiction where the victim resides.

That part is infuriating, even though you are Jim Browning, it won't do anything but defame them, you have zero jurisdiction to arrest the scammers or fraudsters even though you have caught them with sufficient evidence to use against them, and the authorities in those countries are as dirty as the fraudsters themselves, so there's no true justice on charging them with anything, plus it's a risk and gamble nobody will be willing to take as it is too dangerous to confront them by yourself.

The only way you can prevent yourself in that situation is to be attentive to where you put your money or personal information, as in avoiding yourself in their trap, which is often impossible no matter how secure your account or holdings are, as those bad actors will find a loophole. You can have a "fortress" tier-level secure account, even then they will still find a way to breach it and take advantage of it by posing as your close ones or catfishing you by them being someone important.

The worst types of catfish are the ones that DO NOT live in the same country of residence, living in poorer countries scamming people living in developed countries (like the USA, UK, or the EU) posing as either tax agents or working for the bank from the victim's country of residence. The only thing the victim can do is to close their account and open a new one entirely after one is compromised, but do not expect the police to hunt down the scammer if they are based overseas.