SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: WhatsApp Investment Club Scam - Screenshot Profits + 10% to "Charity"?
DATE: 2024-05-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d0t9om/whatsapp_investment_club_scam_screenshot_profits/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mother joined an "investment group" through Facebook and was directed to a WhatsApp group chat run by a man claiming to be a former JP Morgan analyst "Leon" and his Secretary "Julia".

Leon claimed to be working on behalf of a Cochlear Implant charity organization, who had asked him to use his expertise to get donations for the charity. His way of doing this was to provide stock tips to the WhatsApp group, detailing precise buy and sell conditions that he would message to group members. All he asks in return for lending his expertise to the group is that members screenshot the profits they make when he instructs them to sell. Then, at the end of this "project" he's doing for the charity, he asks that 10% of the profits the members make from his tips be sent to the charity.

At the point that my mother told me all of this, she had already made quite a bit of money following Leon's instructions. The funds are all in her control, and she used her own trading platform that she's been using for years. I told her this is obviously some kind of scam, but she can't see how it could be and wants to continue following this guy's instructions so long as the funds remain in her control and on her trusted trading platform.

I know something bad will happen if she continues to engage with the guy, but I don't think I'll change her mind unless I can present a case on how she is actually vulnerable to losing her money beyond the typical risks associated with investment. Can you help me figure it out?

What I know:

At the end of every trade, members send a screenshot of their completed sell order. Leon claims this is so he can keep track of profits and keep members honest about giving to the charity at the end. There is no sensitive information in these screenshots (I think). I suspect this is so that Leon can see which members are investing the most cash, so he can focus his efforts on them for his endgame.

Leon encourages members to sell other shares in their portfolio and invest all available funds in just his tips.

I reverse image searched both Leon and Julia's profile pictures. Leon's is associated with three now defunct fake crypto trading platforms. Julia's is from an India-based escort service website. Both are attractive, and I suspect these photos were chosen to put group members at ease (my mother even said she has a little crush on Leon).

Given the number of members the group has and some of the profit screenshots my mother's talked about, I estimate Leon to be providing instructions for the investment of about $2 Million USD.

Leon claims that his high success rate is because he uses "Technical Analysis" (predictions of stock price movements base on prior patterns and technical indicators like moving averages). But, I know his last stock tip was for JDZG, which only had its IPO recently and therefore wouldn't have historical data from which to use technical analysis.

 
So. This is obviously a scam, but how? What's the endgame?

TL;DR 
Fake stock guru leader of a WhatsApp group has been right every time and made my mother a lot of money from his stock tips. All he asks is that 10% of profits go to his charity. I know it's a scam but my mother won't disengage unless I can demonstrate how!