SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Got scammed on highway and swindled out of cash and car parts - Beware of these thugs!!!
DATE: 2024-10-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1futgyy/got_scammed_on_highway_and_swindled_out_of_cash/

--- POST TEXT ---

I wanted to share my recent experience to warn others about a scam I encountered while I was travelling from mysore to bangalore in my Xcent. 
I’ve always been cautious, but this was a professional con job that caught me off guard.

There was some space after a signal and a biker came in front of my car and told me to lower my window. I foolishly complied and he told me that sparks were visible inside the engine compartment. Just as I was opening the door to get out and see, the man came up, and asked me to open the bonnet quickly. I did so, and by the time I could unbuckle the seatbelt and get out, he had the bonnet open and there was smoke. 
 
I said that let me try to call the nearest dealership and asked for his phone (the signal on my cell was dead for a good while during this time - thanks Vodafone!!). He said they will take ages, but that he knows a mechanic nearby and we can ask for his help. It will take only 10 minutes...so I complied

The mechanic came over and I let him open the bonnet while he told me to start the car. He had actually removed the spark plug from a cylinder and told me to come out and see the car jerking and the sparks being visible...me being so tensed, not knowing much about these things just kept nodding like a fool which he must have noticed to scam me more later...

At that moment, I got scared and told him to fix what was necessary. He went under the car, did something I don’t know about because he told me to be seated inside the car and continue pressing the clutch till he signals me to stop.

Once his work was done, he insisted on a test drive. My car was perfectly fine before this incident, but after his so-called repairs, it felt worse, and I suspected he might’ve swapped some parts for inferior ones. I told him about it to which he told this is how the car is supposed to actually feel while driving...didn't know what to say and just kept silent...

Once the work was done, he informed me that he’d replaced the AC compressor and alternator, demanding 9000 rs for that along with another 1500 rs for service charge! I didn't have enough cash with me so had to drive to the nearest ATM and then handed over the amount and continued my journey (he denied gpay). As I headed to the city, I drove in to a dealership and described the incident as I was very uncomfortable with the driving experience after the mechanic fixed my car...kept feeling something was off 
 
They thoroughly checked my vehicle and told that the alternator and battery had been replaced but with old parts and it was a tactic from that person to rob the money and car parts and make me a fool...and since I don't understand Kannada, I became an easy target for them...I felt so angry at myself and still am as I type this...

The final take from this expensive lesson is never to open the bonnet unless you are there. I had this rule for the dicky, because I was told that even security personnel were not above planting stuff in the dicky while checking and then claiming that they found contraband in the car...now this is another big lesson for me...very frustrated I got conned like this...