SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Option trading Scam on Jeevansathi 
DATE: 2024-02-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1arfb5n/option_trading_scam_on_jeevansathi/

--- POST TEXT ---

I got a match on Jeevansathi and his name was Chirag Parmar. According to his profile he comes from afluent gujrati family and proffession is memtioned as Stock broker.At start he was quite charming and persuasive he made me believe that he was well educated came from a well to do family he was the only child. He was from Mumbai vile parle. 

As he gained my confidence I told him that was unemployed since few months and m struggling a bit. He immediately acted on the opportunity and introduce me to convept of trading. At start i was reserved as I myself aware of the concepts of trading but had little practical knowledge. He started being very nice and let me believe that he likes me alot and thinking of introducing to his family and I should start learning about trading and start with low investment. He asked me about how much i can spare for trading and i told him that i can utilize upto 20k but has to guide me through screenshare. But i would need 2 days arrange this amount. He dint push the thought anymore he was like we will wait till u hv money. But next day in morning he was like I got tip and we can mk u good 40 50 k for if i will invest now. I told him i dont hv money so i cnt do it. But he was like okay i am investing on ur behalf lets see hw mch we can earn.i told him not to do that and asked him if he has registered ID he said yes but its confidential. He was continuously persuading me that he investing so my future wife has good backup and she could learn how market wrks.he showed me nifty stock prices going down and mentioned that he is investing in lots and he had 10 lots and the premium was 75 and because he bid on price drop he was able to get huge gap and with 20k he was able to book profit of 54k. I felt like m in debt so i transferred the money but when it comes to withdrawal he said that margin shows 40k so i need to gv more 20k i told him that i cant as i dont hv money he said we cant get the money so i transferred more 10 k...he was llike i'll ask my friend to transfer more 10k for u. But because it late in evening so we cant withdraw money today we will do it tomorrow. Next day he says that the friend did transfer the money but the payment is not showing under my name so transfer more 10k
I got irritated and told him to help me. You are a broker and handle such big transactions cant u lend me 10k he then said that his account is current account so he cant mk any transfer i asked him to ask his friend to transfer the money to me. But he denied then i knew its scam i told him i will report if he doesn't gv my money he got offended started calling me continuously. I told him m not gving single rupee and m reporting it. He said u do whatever and get lost u aint getting any of ur money. 

Immediately the Jeevansathi profile was deleted