SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Alleged Bondi gunman loses bid to give family anonymity
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/world/alleged-bondi-gunman-loses-bid-to-give-family-anonymity/2894606/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Alasdair Pal
SYDNEY, April 2 (Reuters) – A man accused of one of Australia’s worst ever mass shootings on Thursday lost a bid to prevent media from reporting the identities of his family.
Naveed Akram, 24,  allegedly opened fire on a Jewish Hanukkah celebration on Sydney’s Bondi Beach last December, killing 15 people, in an attack police say was inspired by Islamic State.
Akram had sought a 40-year-long gag order preventing the publication of the names or photos of his mother, brother and sister, as well as their home address and places of work and schooling, due to fears for their safety.
Show Full Article
His bid was opposed by several Australian media groups, who said the proposed order prevented proper reporting on the case, which has attracted huge public interest in Australia and globally.
Finding in favour of the media, Judge Hugh Donnelly said the principle of open justice was fundamental to the trial, and that suppression orders “should only be made in exceptional circumstances”.
“This case has caused unprecedented public interest, anger, outrage and grief,” he said.
Akram’s driving licence showing his home address had been widely circulated online, while his mother gave an interview to a local newspaper in the hours after the shooting, the court heard.
Given social media platforms and overseas publications would be exempt from any order, prohibiting publication only in Australia where the courts have jurisdiction would be largely ineffective, Donnelly added.
“This case is exceptional by virtue of the sheer magnitude and intensity of commentary on social media,” he said.
Appearing via video link from the maximum security prison where he is currently being held, Akram waved at the camera as he sat down to watch the hearing. He spoke only to confirm he could hear proceedings.
After conferring with his legal team, Akram’s barrister Richard Wilson told the court he did not plan to appeal the decision.
The attack stunned a nation known for its strict gun laws, prompting ​renewed calls for tighter controls and more decisive action to combat antisemitism.
Australia has launched a government-backed inquiry into antisemitism and social cohesion, with findings due by December. ​The government has already strengthened gun laws and introduced new hate speech legislation.
(Reporting by Alasdair Pal in Sydney; Editing by Lincoln Feast.)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.