SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Aadhaar card - convenience or inconvenience
DATE: 2018-04-11
SCORE: 28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8bgeda/aadhaar_card_convenience_or_inconvenience/

--- POST TEXT ---

I wanted to link my mobile no and email id to my Aadhaar card because when creating it for first time it didn't get linked. Also my wife wanted to modify address and her name in her card. I have been trying to get appointment for the changes. I visited different centers and banks where details can be updated but as told by the agents machines which update the details were not functional. I was asked to visit after March 31st. So I went again to the local center last week. Each center only provides 20-30 tokens each day to update details. So need to stay in line for hours every day till I get the token and centers are closed on Saturday and Sunday. The staff at local center were rude as fuck for no reason.So this was kinda not possible. Then I went to bank to check if the update facility is available. The agent said that updates are only possible at aadhaar centers. I was turning back to go home then he quietly said "private mai kar sakata hu 300 lagega". I asked him how. He said he has connections with the aadhaar centers. He has his personal 20 tokens for a day 300 rs each. This seemed best option for me. So I paid 300 rs and got my aadhaar card updated. The aadhaar card center staff has some cut in this 300 rs fees. 
&amp;nbsp;

Aadhaar card is supposed to make life easy. But apparently its making it more difficult. Anything you want to do nowadays you need aadhaar card from sim card to bank account. So there is no way around it. The concept is absolutely awsm that you will not need to carry any other documents than aadhaar card. All information in one card. But the implementation is worst. Forget about the data leaks.
&amp;nbsp;

What's your opinion about this? Have you faced similar situation?
&amp;nbsp;

Edit :- The aadhaar center I went processes approx 30-50 agent tokens for 300 each. So just calculate how much money these people make from aadhaar. Kisike to ache din aagae hai!!!!!