SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Want my money back
DATE: 2021-09-07
SCORE: 20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/pjjxl3/want_my_money_back/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi all.

This post is regarding a fairly recent transaction where 31K INR was "stolen" from me. The context might be a bit confusing, so if there is any confusion feel free to ask me in the comments.

So on Friday 20 August 2021, my friend, lets call him S, met a man in an electronic shop when he went to recharge his phone. Over there he met the man who "stole" my money, lets call him A. Now A was in urgent need of money and was at the electronic shop to sell his expensive phone. When S heard about this, without thinking twice decided to buy this expensive phone. Now let me inform you that S is broke with little to no money right now and even back then, but he is the kind of guy who returns borrowed money even though he takes time to return it. Since S was broke, he called me and asked me to lend him money to buy the phone. So I sent A's GF the money directly, which was 20k INR via GPay which she received and acknowledged.

This is where the fuck up happened. Now S was going to send the rest of the money himself which was 31k to A. But the payment got stuck on GPay and was in the processing state for almost an hour. Usually in this type of circumstance, if the transaction is in the processing state, the money is credited back to the account, right? Or so we both thought. So S asked me to send A 31K and when the money is refunded to S's acc, he would send me the 31k. But guess what Saturday morning at around 2am, I get a call from S that the 31k was debited from his acc and went to A. So now A has a surplus of 31k.

For the past 2 weeks both S and I have contacted A and his GF multiple times and all they say is that, they will give it by Monday, Tuesday, etc. And for the past week both of them have ghosted us. I haven't been this stressed out in years. We already filed a complaint with the police and cyber crime station yesterday. S has the GF's bank details. S, I and GF are from Bangalore and A travels between states.

Is there anything else we can do to get the money back? Any help is appreciated.