SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Just wanted to share my pathetic experience with Grofers
DATE: 2019-08-17
SCORE: 196
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/cri7ah/just_wanted_to_share_my_pathetic_experience_with/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I had ordered some products from Grofers few days ago. The order was supposed to reach yesterday between 6 AM - 9 AM, but it didn't. It was around 10 AM when I called the delivery guy and he said that he will be delivering the order till 12. The order got more delayed somehow and the ETA was pushed till 6 PM. At around 6:45 I got a notification that the order was delivered but it wasn't. So i hurriedly called the delivery guy and he said that he was standing outside my house for 10-15 mins and he tried to call me but couldn't connect. Could he not ring the bell for once? And he marked the order as delivered too. So that was it, I told him to come again as I will be outside the gate this time. He was not ready to come but upon pleading numerous times he reluctantly agreed to come once again.

When he came to deliver, he hurriedly placed the items on the floor and was going out of the house. He didn't even let me check the products. He said that he had to deliver some more orders and he left. When I was counting the products I found that most of them were badly damaged. The shampoo had leaked and had seeped into other things. There was also dirt and sticky sugar on it. The boxes of biscuits were crushed. So i raised a complaint from inside the app, I also sent them pics to verify. Upon seeing that they refunded the amount of the damaged products to the grofers wallet.

But today morning when I woke up, I see that the money which they had credited to the wallet has been debited back. I tried the in app customer support, they were ignoring me and they weren't replying. I called the customer support and they said the amount has been debited back and they will issue a return back of the products and will deliver them once again or credit the money to the wallet. I checked the order tab to see the date and time of the initiated return of the products after about 30 mins or so. And to my surprise, they had not issued any return back order. I tried to call them once again and this time the call was not getting through. Everytime I called, I was getting connected to some alarm company overseas and everytime a Ross came on the line. This was not Grofers support but it was the same number which i had talked to 30 mins earlier. When I tried to access my account I was not able to. They had conveniently locked me out of my account. I had some more money in that wallet which I couldn't access now. This is borderline theft. Never had I experienced such scammy service ever in my life. Fuck Grofers.

Edit - [We regret to inform you that once an account is flagged by our system it is not within the bounds of possibility to reverse the same by manual intervention.](https://i.vgy.me/XiJ5a5.png) haha..what a joke this is..they have delivered me damaged products of over ₹500 and my wallet had over ₹800. They duped my ₹1300. This is a scam. 
 

Tl;dr : Items in my order were damaged, got a refund for that, refunded amount was debited back again on promise of return of the products with good ones or cashback, was locked out of my account with some money left in the wallet which are gone now.