SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: I need help regarding my CRED account being hacked.
DATE: 2024-08-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1erxapc/i_need_help_regarding_my_cred_account_being_hacked/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently, my CRED account which manages my credit cards got hacked. I immediately intimated CRED regarding the suspicious login and while I was on the phone, a swamp of OTPs started flooding my inbox the first OTP was of IDFC and somehow the transaction was successful, immediately after that IDFC blocked the transactions as they were suspicious. I immediately asked CRED to block my account and they reassured me about the refund to be credited to me. Thereafter my call with CRED, IDFC called me regarding the transactions to which we told them about the fraudulent activities and they blocked the card and applied for a replacement. After I blocked all of my credit cards, I filed a report at the Cyber Crime Portal about the incident and got an acknowledgment immediately, which to date has not given us any resolution of any kind nor I have been called for any inquiry. I received a credit refund the day after from IDFC as promised but to our surprise, the bank reversed the credit a few days later without any explanation. I called to enquire about the credit reversal and they responded horrendously, stating that the transaction was OTP based and was done in a 'secured' environment. The irony is this statement is something to think about as it was the bank only that called us about the suspicious transactions. Both CRED and IDFC know that fraudulent activities happened to me yet no one is willing to help me out. I have contacted all the offices in IDFC about this transaction yet all of their so-called investigations in the grievance cell ended in me being the person responsible when I did not do any of those transactions. All of this is causing me a great deal of mental stress and I have all the proofs to present my case against the bank. Kindly help me.