SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: False allegation against me(27M) by next-door Neighbour (45F) under 323/354 A/506/3 IPC
DATE: 2023-05-09
SCORE: 80
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/13cmlne/false_allegation_against_me27m_by_nextdoor/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Redditors,

Back in 2019, I had a verbal spat with my next-door neighbor over a flower vase. Forward to 2020 April-May, I found out from the Local PS that I have had a complaint lodged against me at the magistrate's office under IPC 323/354 A/506/3. 
The case has been in court since then, recently it moved to trial. In the city/state we live, case dates tend to be extremely long (my next date is in Sept, almost at 7 months apart). Currently, we do not have any solid grounds for quashing but neither does the complainant have anything against me as proof. According to the lawyers, things will be settled in session court itself but will take quite a bit of time. 

I was fine with all this till recently. I am still working in the corporate sector for the past 3 years after completing my master's. The salary I draw from the company is around INR 23,000/- which is almost the same as what I had joined 3 years back. A meager hike yearly does not reflect much on the payslip.

 
I had seen countless colleagues switch their jobs and live their lives more freely. I have seen my past relationship collapse as I could not take things to the next step and build a better foundation for us. I could not disclose the event to the girl and then she was very confused as to why I could not move forward. I have had relatives say that I work at a call center and that I probably do not have any skills. I was born with a genetic disorder that somewhat limits my capability to move around and relatives feel pity on me. I do not own a personal vehicle and neither do we have anything on our name as property. Father bought this apartment back in 2012 but later on, found out that there was a Loan Fraud committed at the back with the copy of our apartment documents, the initial developer/ contractor was supposedly involved but currently, we are fighting the case against a govt. backed bank. 

I feel like I've started to cave in a lot nowadays. I've been trying my best to take everything on the chin. But it seems like I'm at my boiling point. 

I wanted to check in with the Redditors here and gather some advice. In the current situation, if I were to switch jobs, what is the likelihood of the court case backfiring on me? I think I have the skill set to demand a lot better salary but I just need to get out there and grab it. The only fear of getting rejected while a Background Verification is done on me by the Private Corps is what's keeping me at bay. Pour in your suggestions, please.

 
This was not a rant post, sorry if it felt like one.