SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Youth Cong workers protested at AI summit on Rahul’s instructions to sabotage India’s image: BJP
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-02-20
URL: https://theprint.in/india/youth-cong-workers-protested-at-ai-summit-on-rahuls-instructions-to-sabotage-indias-image-bjp/2859461/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Feb 20 (PTI) The BJP on Friday slammed the Congress for the protest staged by its youth wing workers at the ongoing AI Impact Summit, alleging that a ‘ruckus’ was created at the venue to sabotage India’s global image under the direction of opposition leader Rahul Gandhi.
A group of India Youth Congress (IYC) workers staged a brief protest at an exhibition hall of the AI Impact Summit on Friday, raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, before being whisked away by security personnel.
A senior police officer said that around 10 people were detained when they were protesting at the AI Summit.
Show Full Article
Reacting to the protest, BJP leader Amit Malviya said, “At a time when India is hosting a prestigious global AI Summit, showcasing its innovation and leadership in technology, the Congress party chose disruption over dignity.” The BJP IT department head criticised the Congress workers for taking off their shirts and creating a ruckus at the venue, saying the act was “clearly designed to embarrass India on the world stage.” When the nation is striving to position itself as a global technology powerhouse, such conduct only serves the interests of those who wish to see India falter, he added.
“Political opposition is a democratic right, but sabotaging India’s global image is not,” Malviya charged, stressing, “India deserves better.” Reacting sharply to the protest, BJP national spokesperson Pradeep Bhandari wrote on X, “Shame on Congress Party. Congress behaves like Urban Naxals. Cong is an anti-India party.” He alleged that Congress workers stormed the AI Impact Summit venue and raised “objectionable slogans on the instructions of Rahul Gandhi.” “Rahul Gandhi, Congress and Gandhi-Vadra family should apologise to the country and its youth,” Bhandari demanded.
Meanwhile, a picture has surfaced in which Rahul Gandhi can be seen walking along with Narsimha Yadav, who allegedly organised the protest at the summit. PTI PK PK MPL MPL
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.