SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: URGENT DAD ARRESTED FOR FAKE RAPE CASE UPDATE 
DATE: 2024-06-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1df3om6/urgent_dad_arrested_for_fake_rape_case_update/

--- POST TEXT ---

URGENT dad arrested in fake rape case update

NOT A LAWYER

My dad has spent a total of 11 days now in jail for a crime he never did, I'm from Pune Maharashtra, we are receiving threats from them saying that they will not free my dad. They have a very good lawyer. The chances of him getting out are very blur. I'm so helpless right now. I have become suicidal and no I'm not doing this for attention. I might as well kill myself tomorrow itself if we don't win in tomorrow's court hearing. The opposing party knows very well how a woman can misuse the rape laws enforced in our country. Our country being our country will obviously contnue to favour women. He never messaged, called or even looked at that woman in the 4 years she was in our house. My family is broken, people are mistreating us, I'm getting bullied in class everyone calls my dad a rapist. Soon we won't have any money and my dad will be in jail for nothing, as it is he'll soon lose his job due to this. All i want from you people is help, help me on how can I make this case go viral? What can I do to gain maximum media popularity? I made a tweet on it but I'm new to Twitter i don't know anything. I don't know what to do. How to do. My dad is being mistreated like anything for something he didn't do. My family is suffering. My hopes for life are fading. I need help people 🙏

Post on twitter : https://x.com/arsheenmaniyar/status/1801161083883078093?t=KEw5VjSXB5qlSXrTWZJZNA&amp;s=19

Previous post: 
I need URGENT help. I am from Pune, Maharashtra. My mami left my mamas house in December because he watched porn and then came back after some mutual agreement. She then left home again due to some internal issues with her husband and before leaving she got a group of 11 guys to beat my mama up. It's been 6 months and my mama filed for 2nd divorce this month (Muslim law). Throughout these 6 months mamis father threatened us to take mami back but mamu doesn't want her anymore and made it very clear. They have been threatening to kill us and threatening to file a fake rape case against my dad so my mom's life is ruined. Today Nani and mama were taken to the police said and my mother was called too, they lied saying we want a statement and put my dad in jail along with my mama. My dad is booked under section 376 and we are all hopeless because he's the only source of money and my education depends on him. The case was systematically filed of a year before so theres no evidence.l need URGENT help and solutions on this because he'll lose his job. I beg you to give me your quickest most practical best solutions.