SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I might have almost escaped a beating / shakedown / scam
DATE: 2023-12-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18pjgaz/i_might_have_almost_escaped_a_beating_shakedown/

--- POST TEXT ---

All this happened with a rent-a-car in Portugal... In "Klass Wagen Faro" if you can, also leave them a bad review because their bot farms are just something else...

 
ALL CUSTOMERS BEWARE!!! SCAM!!!

Where to begin... I was just trying to book a car rental (used [booking.com](https://booking.com)) and came across this rental car with an affordable price and two distinct options for pickup, either I could do a security deposit or pay for their premium tier 3 insurance (which it is NOT at all mandatory from the T&amp;C). I choose to book a 50EUR car and would do a security deposit that I would have been reimbursed should the car have not presented any damage.

I get my flight, I arrive at FARO Airport and get reading the pickup notes. First thing is that we have to reach to a cellphone number that is a value added line (meaning is about 1EUR per minute) only to ask for the transfer to go pick you up. They take about 30 minutes to pick you (although the place is about 10 minutes away from the pickup location). Everyone is super friendly at first, but once you are dropped there, you already fell in the trap.

The service is very slow, there was only a couple of English friends that were being serviced and it still took about 30 minutes for someone to see me although there were 2 free employees that could have easily payed some attention to the fact a costumer was there. This was not the worse.

Finally my turn, I go to the employee and start handing in my documents (he started taking pictures of the ID Card and Drivers License without me authorising it, which is ILEGAL in Portugal) and was making small talk during the photos (which was fine) and gave the impression he was friendly. Oh boy was I mistaken. After I have put all my personal details in, he states that the car is ready but I only have to pay for the Premium Insurance Tier for an additional 480EUR (remember I payed 50EUR for the car via Booking) because they will not be providing me the option for a security deposit. This was weird and totally not expected so I asked why and thats when they just gave an half baked excuse that my name was somehow incorrect in my credit card because this and that (total bull$h17...). I say to the guy that I'm not going to pay for that and I have to check with booking.

I contacted booking which were REALLY helpful during the whole process and they took about 30minutes to confirm and call the rent-a-car themselves but in the end it was agreed that they must give the security deposit as an option. I was happy, and got back to the guy that spoke with them in the hopes that the option was now available.

Imagine my surprise when all of a sudden the staff is being very rude to me and saying that the security deposit is still not an option. I say that there must be a mistake and that I will talk with booking again because there must have clearly been some miscommunication.

&amp;#x200B;

HOLD ON TIGHT... IT GETS BETTER......

While I was waiting for the booking guy to try and talk to them again, I overheard another employee saying to the English guys that got there way before me that there was an issue with the name on their passports and they could offer the option to rent with the premium tier insurance... The exact problem as I was having except in a different document! I saw the look of surprised in the other client and immediately stepped in and said that they were trying to do the same thing to me and that this is not something legal, that I already am talking with booking and they are obliged to give the security deposit option... They started asking for it as well. Staff was pissed and speaking in Hindi with each other (probably plotting my demise).

In the meanwhile the guy from booking that I was put on hold gets back on the call and says that I should get out of there because they started being rude to him as well. I asked if it would be possible to just cancel everything and get a refund for the reservation and he put me on hold again because he had to check with the rent-a-car again... I panicked but waited...

I've asked for the "Livro de Reclamações" to book a formal complaint and was denied of it, which I planned to call the police because no Portuguese service can deny to provide this book, it's considered a crime.

In the middle of all this chaos the English guys were asking to be transported back into the airport and I was going to be left there alone with 4 indian guys (another appeared suddenly out of nowhere to drive the shuttle back) that were probably plotting something not very nice to do to me... I was shaking and had an adrenaline rush all at the same time. As I didn't want to be kidnapped I just put my luggage as well inside the trunk and start saying to the english guys, something like "let's get out of this scam". The driver hears this and immediately threatens me with a "say that to my face" and aggressive tone and posture. We three got in the car and drove the entire way silent back to the airport.

I get a response from booking saying that the rent-a-car refused to reimbursed, but booking is going to do so. They also opened an internal investigation to assess if this rent-a-car is doing stuff that they shouldn't... Hopefully they get shutdown.

We arrive at the airport and there are 5 more costumers waiting to be picked up. As soon as we are in "safe" ground we let them know that they should be careful with the "wrong name" issue in documents and that they will be forced to buy a premium tier insurance and that they should run away from that place. The driver was not happy at all and called us a couple of beautiful names that his mum must have called him a lot of times before.

&amp;#x200B;

This was my fourth time renting a car and never have I ever faced this much trouble, or felt my life in danger to the point that I've felt with them. I urge you all to disregard all their army of Indian scam bots farm on the reviews and just cancel your bookings with them. If not, I hope you have a lot more luck that we had.

&amp;#x200B;

As all the employees are a bit dumb, they don't know you can make an online complaint in [www.livrodereclamacoes.pt](https://www.livrodereclamacoes.pt) for the entity with NIF 515568457. If something happens to you, filling a formal complaint will help others not having to go through this criminal organization. 

TLDR: I almost got mugged while scammed