SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: People keep thinking i’m a scammer.
DATE: 2022-08-22
SCORE: 348
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/wufgmx/people_keep_thinking_im_a_scammer/

--- POST TEXT ---

I just moved to this new town a few months ago and the only people I talk to are the people I know through work. I joined a few county garage sale facebook groups and wanted to sell my bike. I posted it in one group, and immediately got labeled a scammer. I understand that this group has had problems with scammers entering the group, so I kindly (lmao) explained that I live in the area, even told them what park I live by. They still didn’t believe me. I ended up selling it to a family member. 

However, I am indian, so my profile name is indian and my picture is of an indian girl (because I am one.) I can’t help but think that the scammers have ruined the trust in just normal indian people trying to sell some shit. I also don’t know if I should be upset that the people in this group jumped to conclusions, or if I should just accept that I won’t be able to sell anything online due to scams. 

Thought this situation was funny so I figured I’d share.

edit: i should also clarify, i’ve posted in a few FB groups after that first group, had the same thing happen, and that’s when i sold it to a family member. i tried a few times and then just gave up

edit 2: holy shit i went to sleep and this post blew up. i empathize with my fellow indian non-scammers that have had the same problems, especially call center workers. i’m so sorry. you shouldn’t be losing work and real clients simply because of where you’re from. 

also, yes, the town i live in is racist. just now kinda realized that when i read the comments and put two and two together. i was living in oblivion, giving the benefit of the doubt, and just hoping that i couldn’t be the only indian person living here (as far as i know, i am). i think some of these people have never seen a POC in real life. 

thanks again for all the comments! :)