SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: CricHeroes tournament scam‼️
DATE: 2023-12-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/18aermm/cricheroes_tournament_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: 3.7k ₹ lost looking to be part of cricket tournament. Cyber crime cases registered on the mobile number. 

I have passion for cricket but dude to personal reasons haven’t been playing for so long. so after ages I felt like going out to play but no friends or acquaintances to form a team and play. That’s when I got to know about CricHeroes through a colleague of mine. I was a little skeptical of going in my own to play matches with strangers but have switched on my extrovert side and started exploring. And I had no regrets your experience depends on all about the team you’ll be part of at the end.

After few single matches I started looking for a team to join that played tournaments. By this time because I have had positive experience with the app I have even expected that there would be scammers on this app(pretty wrong judgement). I have approached a few and few of them approached me that there is a spot in the team. Most of the calls were from Kondapur Manikonda n all but I was only looking for in and around Uppal surroundings.
 
One fine morning I get a call from the person I have texted earlier looking for opportunity that was posted on the app. Straight up my first question was which grounds were the matches in and told am looking for something nearby Uppal. He pretty well capitalised on this and convinced me that few matches are in peerzadiguda and few at Manikonda. Just this part convinced me I felt like being part of the team and without much of a thought I have paid the amount. 2.8k and then again 900₹ on the same day because he stated tournament fee was increased or some jersey reason. 

I was happy that I’d be part of a tournament next coming week. But yeah the it all started to fall apart he always picked up the phone and stated reasons that felt genuine and it’s only after two weeks that I felt the bullshit he was making up. It’s been over a month and that MF always lifts the calls and tells tomorrow for sure I’ll pay ( son medical expenses, father’s friends is in hospital and what not.) But he always kept saying he’ll return the money return the money only for that reason and because it was just 3.7k I wasn’t worried much. Later after so many calls and so many reasons once I lost patience and lost hope on him returning this money I got this number checked with my brother in law who’s in cyber crime department and there are like 3 cases registered and sim in on a Junk keypad phone. 

The surprising part was when I brought up all this ki you are fraudster and fuck you and my money and all this guy kept on portraying good guy character and pleaded like I’m innocent even after I shot so many word abuses at him. 

I have his number and CricHeroes profile should I share it over here? Will that make any difference?