SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Crocs made a fake video to gaslight and cheat me!
DATE: 2023-05-09
SCORE: 491
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/13cnh1h/crocs_made_a_fake_video_to_gaslight_and_cheat_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

Apologies in advance for the long post. 

I know this sounds incredulous but hear me out. I had ordered a pair of clogs and some jibbitz for my kid on 21st April. 

When I received my order i received only the clogs. I didn't think much of it and thought the jibbitz will be delivered seperately. Later when I checked my order details I realised that the jibbitz were marked as delivered too so I called up their customer care who were extremely rude and even hung up on me but did ask me to email their customer support. 

I emailed Crocs customer support and that's when the saga began. They asked me for an unboxing video (really) and promised to do an investigation. I obviously did not have any unboxing video so I asked for proof that the jibbitz were packed at their end. They sent me some pictures of their packing center where the jibbitz in question were clearly visible. 

At this point I didn't think to check the date and time stamp (more on this later). I then told them it was not possible as I opened the package myself and there were no jibbitz. 

They then copy pasted their older message. I was livid at this point because what they were implying was that I was lying and I was too invested and angry at this point to give up. I told them to send me a packing video from their end to prove themselves since they thought it was appropriate to ask for an unboxing video and I also threatened legal action for insinuating that I was dishonest and trying to cheat them of a few jibbitz.

 Anyways they did send me a video and this was when I actually checked the time stamp. The video was quite hilarious by itself as there were two people packing orders however the one packing my order was showing everything he packed to the camera, the other one was just packing normally. 

Like i said i checked the date and time stamp which was 24th April 17:13. I knew something was off because if they had actually sent me the package as shown in the video I should have received the jibbitz. At this point I was questioning myself if i had somehow thrown away the jibbitz but i knew that all i had actually received were the clogs.

 I checked my call records and realised I had first called the customer care on 25th which meant that i would have probably received the package on 24th as I hadn't immediately actioned the missing jibbitz. I looked for more evidence on when the product was actually delivered to me and all I had was the tracking number on my order but no details as to who the delivery partner was . 

I then emailed Crocs back and asked about the delivery partner. They replied with the usual copy pasted message that they had investigated yada yada but did send me the logistics partner's name which was Bluedart. 

This was all I needed, i tracked the order on Bluedart and you won't believe but the product was delivered to me at 13:15 on 24th April before it was packed as per the video sent to me by Crocs. Bluedart had also picked the package from them on 22nd, 2 whole days before they packed my order. 

I cannot understand why someone like Crocs would go to the extent of creating a fake video to prove that I am wrong and they were right. I mean it was just a few jibbitz at the end of the day. 

The worst part is if they were going the extra mile and making a fake video to prove that I was lying then atleast do it well, fake the date on the CCTV recording too..so half baked! I do have all the receipts - will edit with imgur links the fake video sent by Crocs and blue dart's tracking details. Do note the time stamps on them. 

I have emailed them back highlighting their appalling behaviour and the shocking fake video they created and while i await their response, I just want the word to get out on this. At this point I have also given up on the jibbitz but i am shocked at the level of gaslighting and thought I should write about it and share with all of you.

Edits

https://imgur.io/a/IeRuZlC
Link to the fake video created and sent by crocs. Do note the date and time stamp

https://imgur.io/a/OdQEFf8
Link to Bluedart tracking details. Do note the delivery date and time. Bluedart has managed to deliver the package to me before Crocs even packed it later that day. 😂

Please feel free to share this post especially with your media friends. I would love for this to get blown up. TIA!

Update - Posted on Twitter
 https://twitter.com/Ninxster/status/1656167322175037440?t=78-mnZAFkdAQGheKGU-Bpw&amp;s=19

Please do share! Thank you.

Update 

Have registered my grievance with the National Consumer Helpline as advised by many of you. Have uploaded the evidence and now awaiting resolution. The NCH is absolutely amazing, helpful and efficient. So happy that we have something that works so well in our country :)