SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Why does it feel so guilty to ask parents for money ?
DATE: 2024-08-17
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1eub769/why_does_it_feel_so_guilty_to_ask_parents_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am asking this question in good faith. Hello, I am a final year medical College student in india, my parents send me allowance every week (~1000 rupees) or until i spend it and ask them again(they won't send until i ask them again).i spend money very cautiously because ofc it's very limited and I have needs rather than spending lavishly.But sometimes there would be unavoidable circumstances where we have to spend money or miscellaneous spendings or whatever but i spend all of my money in like 3 days. And my hostel mess food is really bad ( we get atleast one insect in someone's food everyday but we can't do anything cause it's a govt college and we were warned that we would be expelled if we talk about it to anyone) hence atleast one meal I order from swiggy or Zomato which is the only food I eat in that day ( basically surviving on one meal a day) when I spend all my money, I go insane because I don't have money to order food but i physically CANNOT eat from that shiitty mess. So I starve and moreover I isolate from everyone and doesn't hangout with my friends because I don't have any money to spend when I go out and I'm embarrassed about it and it sends me down a spiral. I get really really depressed,. frustrated and question my life choices and it feels really difficult and guilty for me to ask money from my parents repetitively since we are like lower middle class and my father is a farmer and my mom is a housewife and my father is already spending a fortune on my brother's education in deemed University for btech. I really want to earn money as a student but everything is either trash or scam these days about earning online. It feels really really pathetic and hopeless for me to be like this and being surrounded by friends and classmates who are mostly rich or atleast abundant. Any advices would be appreciated. Thank you. I just needed to rant.