SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Harrassed by x fiance, saying that he will get my dad killed
DATE: 2024-02-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1am2qjh/harrassed_by_x_fiance_saying_that_he_will_get_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, my sister was engaged to a guy 2 years back and that was an arrange marriage setup. It broke off last year during march and she got married in December. These past two years have been been traumatizing to her because of her X fiance. He was cheating on her throughout their relationship even sending her videos and pictures of himself with various call girls in hotel room etc. Even after all these she still wanted to get married because she never wanted to ruin the image of our family. She told About all these stuff to our family last year itself and it had been going on for 2 years and my family broke it off immediately. She has had panick attacks due to all of it and was in depression. Last year in December she got married to someone else and the family already knows about the engagement with the previous guy. And by God's grace she's blessed with a very supportive husband. This was ideally an arrange marriage setup as well and even tho we didn't want her to get married this soon,she wanted it to happen as the past 2 years have been exhausting for her and she really feel In love with her husband as they both knew each other from way before ( we had common relatives and we usually met with their family in common functions). She got married in December. Now her X fiance has been troubling her and harassing her. He has been continuously call, blackmailing her. They had vc of intimacy where he had taken ss of her. Also saying that he will get her dad killed. He's been continuously abusing her and also threating to ruin her life and will also reach out to her husband . She's mentally exhausted, traumatized. She's having suicidal thoughts now. Yesterday she called me and broke down. She's very naive and she's been threatened by him that he will call her in laws and everyone in the family and will tell them everything about . I myself don't know what to do in this situation. Please suggest me what should I do, I really am worried about my sister she is mentally not very well and often hides her feelings. I don't want her to take any wrong step. I want to report him but I don't know what are the process regarding it. Please help me with it, I have all his voice notes with me, I don't know if it can be used against him or not but please do let me know what should I do