#Sasikala Dharmaraj alias VJ Laya - some unknown facts about her. She is not only a great fraudster but also a great drama queen. For example, her hometown is Dindigul. She had acted only in minor advertising, and a few years ago, She worked as a key position in a fraudulent company run by a man named V.V. Gobikrishnan. She fled after the arrest of the fraudulent king V.V. Gobikrishnan. She did not stop there. She also joined another fraudulent company, Money Deal Trading Solutions, and she performed a major fraud. She and Senthilkumar, the owner of the Money Deal Trading Solutions company, have been traveling and leisured the cities for years and with him running a branch of this company in Chennai. In that company, people invested over many crores of money. She fled with that money and that she used the rolled money to buy a house and jewelry. Without stopping there she is currently on TIKTOK, INSTAGRAM and YOUTUBE in order to convince people that she has staged the biggest drama by dressing up as a very nice person and talking. This desire did not last long. Currently (2019) an FIR has been lodged against the Money Deal Trading Solutions and its owner Senthilkumar Surrender and has been arrested. His interrogation revealed that Laya and her longtime friend Karthik, Devi and Mani Narayanan were also involved in the scam. Senthilkumar is currently in BAIL. Namakkal EOW Police, who interrogated him, went to Sasikala alias Laya and summoned her (August 2020). But Laya is currently in hiding with her family without responding to the summons and others are in disguise as well. Fraudsters like this are using social media like TIKTOK, INSTAGRAM and YOUTUBE to convince people to pretend to be good on a large scale in order to make people believe in themselves. Will the police arrest her before she engages in the next scam? Will the money of the people who have lost crores of rupees be recovered in the end? Beware of these people. Don't get cheated on anyone just by appearances and speech. If she is left without arrest for a few more days, she will again say in a video that she has nothing to do with this and that everything is a lie. People will believe this too. Before that, it is important to investigate the right and arrest people like this and give people their money back. Otherwise the lives of many by such people will be in vain.