SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: New Flair and a Mod Announcement on Opinion Posts About Namma Bengaluru
DATE: 2024-11-14
SCORE: 145
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1gqvwaj/new_flair_and_a_mod_announcement_on_opinion_posts/

--- POST TEXT ---

ಎಲ್ಲರಿಗೂ ನಮಸ್ಕಾರ
Ellarigu Namaskara.

I'm sure that the Community will agree when I say that Namma Bengaluru is in the Cynosure of news and not always for the better reasons. 

I'm sure that we agree that all the Cities have their own set of problems and share common infrastructure problems. So does Namma Bengaluru.

r/Bangalore will always be a place to voice out your concerns and deal with them in a constructive criticism.

There have been plenty of posts that have done that.

But for every one post that goes in a right way without any flame wars, there have been several posts that devolve into another anti- Hindi, anti-Kannadiga, anti-migrant and anti-local Fights. 

We also noticed a concentrated uptick of posts which fanned the flames in a negative manner. As custodians of this community, we have removed a large number of posts for every few that slip through. 

For every post about that speaks about Auto Drivers harassment, Road rage, sexual harassment and other issues that migrants/locals face which we have allowed, we have never demanded any proof and took them on their face value.

This has been misused by certain elements. 

Going forward, any post that has a story about your negative experiences, harassment, abuse or any of the other ‘clickbaity’ stuff needs to be tagged under the new Flair called "Citizen's Report".

This should be supported with evidence/proof in a digital form which can be shared inside the post or can be sent over a modmail (if you don't want to share publicly).

We will tag such posts as unverified or verified basis the verification, either through a flair or a comment. For publicly available proof submitted inside the post, we will allow the community to decide whether it's fake or not.

Any such negative posts submitted without any proof will be removed. 

Examples of What will we not remove without proof

* Live updates about any Traffic situations
* Live updates on disastrous weather conditions

Examples of What will we remove without proof

* Auto driver conned me, abused me, hit me, took me on a wrong route. We all know how our Auto Gurus are and thank you.

Users found misusing or posting malicious/ manipulated/ old content and intentionally misleading the community will be banned and their content purged.

ಧನ್ಯವಾದಗಳು
Dhanyavadhagalu