SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Girlfriend’s is in trouble
DATE: 2025-02-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1iflh6o/girlfriends_is_in_trouble/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I came into relationship with a girl who happens to be best friends with my sister in law like 5-6 months back, i know her from almost 4 years. So 3-4 days back she started to act strange when I confronted her why she never calls me on my cell phone, she said she never calls anyone except for her mother and sister, i said it’s not going to work out between us if we are not going to talk over a call ever. So we had a fight and we decided to break up.

I came to know recently that this ex-girlfriend of mine has a boyfriend from 2022 who she doesn’t want to be with and he has kept her like a slave. This guy had recorded videos of her and told her if she decides to marry off she will leak her videos online and he also took her father’s number from her phone and has miss called several times to keep her scared. This guy is a local goon who has political connections and have been in jail several times in harassment cases as per details i got from ex’s friends, he has been asking her to come to visit her whenever she’s out of house forcefully , she lives far from his house and this he has been doing it with several other girls.

She comes from conservative family and they will probably beat the shit out of her or probably kill her if they came to know about the videos. So she has been acting slave to this guy for almost 3 years.
She has a second phone on which this guy calls 24x7 and abuses the shit out of her if she doesn’t pick up his calls, so my ex has developed some sort of trauma due to which she can’t talk to people on phones, she doesn’t talk to him with also , she just shows what’s happening around her on video calls to know where she’s and cries all day and self harm all day.

She’s afraid that police will come to her house if she files police complaint and her character will be annihilated. We live in different cities and this guy carries knife and what not with him and whenever he sees some guy brother or relative with her, he warns her in public and takes her with him and beats her.

i want to help her but want everything to be done discreetly.

City- BBSR, Odisha

Need HELP!!!!