SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Amazon Scam/Fraud
DATE: 2023-01-02
SCORE: 82
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/101btbn/amazon_scamfraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

So as the title says, I got scammed by Amazon. The last online commerce site I would think I could get scammed by. I had ordered a Canon EOS 1500D, costing Rs. 37,990 and the product had been delivered on Nov 17 2022. On inspecting the item, everything seemed fine until I tried taking a photo, which gave me an error saying something in the terms of, "Error communicating with the lens". 

I took the camera to a Canon showroom thinking it might be because of something I didn't know how to set up properly. They mentioned the same that the lens is faulty and it's better to just get a refund. I placed a replacement order on Amazon and the next day the agents came and on trying to enter the device serial number for their verification process, they said that the serial number didn't match their system and told me to ask for a refund as they can't replace it. 

The Amazon customer service placed the return/refund request for me and the next day the agent came and picked up the product. An hour later he calls and says the verification is failing and I assumed it was because of the same serial number mismatch the replacement agent mentioned as well. I asked him to return it back to me but he didn't and blocked my number. He also put the item as verification failed and item not returned. I could no longer contact him and on contacting Amazon customer support about it, they told me not to worry and the refund will be issued soon. 

Fast forward it's been more than a month, I still don't have the product or refund and Amazon has claimed to have done an investigation and couldn't find it in their warehouse, thereby can't process the refund. 

I feel cheated, can anyone guide me in any way I could move forward with this? This is not a small amount for me to let go at all. 

Even if I don't get the refund, pleas stop buying from Amazon. This could happen to anyone. And I also want them to feel affected by some manner for cheating people. 

TLDR: Amazon return agent stole my product I gave for return and Amazon is not refunding the amount because it didn't reach their warehouse.