SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: IDBI Bank fraud case Bangalore Gandinagar branch
DATE: 2023-09-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/16hfjbz/idbi_bank_fraud_case_bangalore_gandinagar_branch/

--- POST TEXT ---

IDBI BANK Fraud Bangalore Gandhinagar Branch

Sorry for the long write up 

IDBI bank manager held for swindling money from customers' accounts

she had illegally transferred money to various bank accounts from customers' accounts.

I am so worried if my mothers money is safe.
 
We have been maintaining savings account at IDBI bank at the Gandhinagar branch, on my Grandma name Swaroop Kanwar and nominee as my mother Neetu purohit.
We had a fixed Deposit of Eleven lakh forty five thousand from past 10 years and thats all my mother has got

The maturity date was 18-05-2021, We have visited the bank before the maturity to renew the FD and was advised by Sajila ( senior bank relationshhip manager) that investing in LIC New Jeevan shanti plan will give us better rate of interest which is 5.6% PA which was better compared to the FD rates during that period and also we were advised that we will receive additional death benefit per month.

We had not signed any copy of papers for the policy as Swaroop kanwar ( account holder) is in the last stage of dementia and is physically disabled ,Sajila informed us that bank cooperates and understands the situation hence the bank had managed to get it done without taking signatures, however Sajila had asked us to provide the address and the picture of the account holder so that they will visit the house in case of any signatures required , i have the copy of Whatsapp chat as part of the proof.

The issuance of policy was dated on 09-09-2021, we had requested to receive the interest monthly and not annually however on the issuance of the LIC Bond we found that the annuity payment was yearly. We had placed a request with Sajila on this matter and she agreed to change it from the back end and the interest to be credited monthly basis.

Post that We were not receiving any messages from the bank on the registered mobile number hence were unable to track if the interest was credited to our account on monthly basis, we were expecting monthly interest amount of 5324 Rs.

In month of December 2021 we used our debit card to check the balance in order track if the interest was credited to our account but the interest was still not credited hence we visited the bank and informed Sajila and asked her to advise on this matter, she informed us that there is some issue with this and will fix it asap and credited the 4 months interest together on January 9th, we have received a Payment of Rs 20764 on 10th of January against the interest pending for four months (09/09/2021 to 10/01/2022) and was intimated to us by Sajila on the same by telephonic conversation, the interest was not credited monthly to us so we use to follow up with Sajila via Whatsapp chat or call.

Now we had found that the credit made by Sajila were not part of the policy and she had managed to do it someone manually.

The bank had blocked our account from making any debits for fraud committed by the Bank relationship manager and also are advising us that the money which was credited to our account as part of the interest for the policy will be debited in future.

Due to the below reason we were unable to keep track on the transactions happening in our account and the bank is responsible for the poor service.

The SMS were blocked by the bank on the registered mobile number and we were advised by Sajila that there is an issue with all the customers with regard to receiving SMS from the bank.

The pass book machine in the bank is not working from past one year, we had followed up a couple of times for an update but was advised every time that they are working on it and will fix this matter soon.
We did not have access to net banking service as it was blocked while opening.

September 7th 2023 is the first annuity payment per the bond papers but when we went to bank and enquired they had informed us that your money is stuck and you need to check with LIC office and the LIC officer is asking us to check with the bank manager.

We have also given a the bank the complaint letter and they told they’ll submitt to the police station and asked us to wait till September.

I feel pathetic for this and blame myself for being so stupid and irresponsible

Can someone please help advise what do i do in this case, where do I escalate this, how can i get my money back, i hope i have not loosed my mothers savings, being a single parent she have struggled alot and those were my father’s savings and after he left us thats all my mother has got.