SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Iranian naval ship Lavan with crew of 184 docked in Kochi same day US torpedoed IRIS Dena
AUTHOR: Keshav Padmanabhan
DATE: 2026-03-06
URL: https://theprint.in/defence/iranian-naval-ship-lavan-with-crew-of-184-docked-in-kochi-same-day-us-torpedoed-iris-dena/2872091/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
An Iranian naval ship, the IRIS Lavan, docked in Kochi on 4 March—the same day Iranian frigate IRIS Dena was sunk by an American nuclear submarine in the Indian Ocean.
The Hengam-class landing ship, it is learnt, sent a request to the Indian Navy on 28 February, the same day US and Israel launched the first wave of strikes against Iran in which the country’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed. In its request, IRIS Lavan indicated that a docking at Kochi was urgent as the vessel had developed “technical issues”.
Approval for it to dock at Kochi was accorded the next day, on 1 March.
Show Full Article
IRIS Lavan finally docked at Kochi on 4 March, the same day an American submarine torpedoed IRIS Dena off the coast of Sri Lanka. “In this context, its crew of 183 are currently accommodated at naval facilities in Kochi,” an Indian government source said.
Both IRIS Lavan and IRIS Dena, along with a third Iranian naval vessel
IRIS Bushehr
were in the region to take part in the Indian Navy’s international fleet review and Exercise MILAN 2026.
The latest information comes as the controversy surrounding the sinking of IRIS Dena continues to rage domestically within India. The IRIS Dena is a Moj-class frigate domestically built by Iran. At least 84 crew members are dead. Sri Lanka launched the original search and rescue operations.
The Indian Navy in a statement Thursday said it received a distress call from Sri Lanka on the morning of 4 March from IRIS Dena and joined in the efforts to rescue the crew, launching a long-range maritime patrol aircraft. INS Tarangini and INS Ikshak were also deployed to augment Sri Lanka’s search and rescue efforts. Over 30 crew members were rescued.
However, the sinking of IRIS Dena, after it departed India following the International Fleet Review, has led to questions on whether India had any role to play in the sharing of information regarding the Iranian frigate with the US.
Government sources denied any role played by India in sharing of intelligence, according to media reports. Nevertheless, the silence emanating from India has seen individuals including former Foreign Secretary Kanwal Sibal take aim at the Indian government.
The sinking of IRIS Dena occurred as Iran continues to retaliate against the US and Israel. Tel Aviv and Washington launched strikes at Tehran last Saturday killing Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
India did not initially react to the situation, apart from calling for a return to dialogue and diplomacy. On 3 March, Randhir Jaiswal, the official spokesperson for the Ministry of External Affairs, called on the countries to seek an early end to the war through dialogue and diplomacy. The Indian statement also noted that almost 10 million of its nationals live in West Asia, while highlighting that the war will impact energy markets, and is occurring in the middle of the holy month of Ramadan.
US President Donald J. Trump Friday called for the unconditional surrender of Iran and the appointment of a new leader that would work with Washington. Iran, however, is continuing its retaliation. At least half a dozen countries including Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Oman and the United Arab Emirates have been hit by Iranian missiles.
India’s silence on the war has faced domestic pushback, including by Congress leader Sonia Gandhi who had on 3 March, in an opinion piece in
The Indian Express
, described New Delhi’s silence as an “abdication of responsibility”.
India’s statement made no mention of the killing of Khamenei. Indian Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri Thursday signed the condolence book at the Iranian Embassy in the national capital over the killing of Khamenei.
(Edited by Amrtansh Arora)
Also Read:
Another Iranian vessel seeks Sri Lanka’s help, day after US submarine strike sunk IRIS Dena