SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam call allegedly from USPTO for trademark
DATE: 2023-05-18
SCORE: 111
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/13kcgyi/scam_call_allegedly_from_uspto_for_trademark/

--- POST TEXT ---

I filed for a trademark on the official USPTO website a week or so ago. Today I received a call with the caller ID “Us Patent &amp; Trd”. 

I answered and a lady with an Indian accent told me she was from the USPTO and needed to verify some info about the filing. She pretended to verify all of the company information (all public info connected to the filing of the trademark). I started to think this was a scam from the very beginning because she was overly nice and complimentary, asking how the business was doing and and stating the application was really well done for a first time filer. She then stated it was approved and I just needed to pay $400 for the trademark to be “published” and she could take my credit card info over the phone. 

Figuring this was a scam because I already paid the filing fee online on the official USPTO website, the woman was also overly nice and complimentary, and trademarks take a lot longer than 1 week to get approved (in the US), I told her I didn’t have my card with me and would need to pay at a later time. I asked her to leave me a callback number and she kept trying to pressure me by saying they can only call from their side and not receive calls and once I pay, the trademark is published. She then asked for a time she could call back and I again asked for a callback number, and so she gave the real number to the USPTO (which it looks like they are spoofing).

On the official USPTO website, it states:

“The USPTO will never ask for your personal or payment information over the phone. If you suspect that you have received a spoofed call:
Contact the Trademark Assistance Center (TAC) to verify the call was from a USPTO employee and for assistance on what to do next. “

This is more of just an FYI since I didn’t see much in this sub about these types of scams when I searched through them. Maybe it can be added to the auto mod or something but I wanted the community to be aware.