SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Almost got scammed by NBN pricks
DATE: 2023-09-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/16rpdpl/almost_got_scammed_by_nbn_pricks/

--- POST TEXT ---

Now I used to do alot of scam baiting years ago but then I stopped because I got bored of it but today I was really close into getting scammed. Now I live in Australia and our main internet infrastructure is called the NBN and let's just say it isn't the best. Now today my grandma got a phone call on the home phone asking for her husband and that he needs to speak to him about NBN or something so she hands the phone to me because I used to deal with this sort of shit years ago, so the caller on the phone reads out to me my address, phone number and name and I say everything is right (first mistake) so then the wanker on the phone who had a strong indian accent said that the whole of my city's internet will be cutoff for a few hours since apparently the NBN is upgrading the old copper lines to finer optic shit and they needed to come to my place to do wiring and stuff but what I forgot is that the internet at my grandparents isn't even wired, it's wireless (internet signal from the NBN wifi tower to the house NBN receiver dish on the roof). The caller told me that I had to tell him when was the best time for an engineer to install the internet shit and I said a date and time to come which probely wasn't a good idea.
Thats the first thing I forgot about and the caller then transfer me to Telstra (we are not even with Telstra) and the manager of "Telstra" said that NBN will send me a box with a new modern, switch box and telephone through the post and what I had to do was pay 5$ for postage. So then this is where I start to get red flags is when the Telstra guy gives me his badge number and stuff and also gives me an address (I looked it up after hanging up to find that it's some church, wow didn't know that was the Telstra HQ) and then he starts saying that I just need to give him my debit card number so he can then get the transaction through Australia Post which idk why it would work like that. I was really close into giving the card and then I realised what the fuck am I doing. I just then tell the caller "mate I'm pretty sure this is a scam so I'm not gonna give you anything" and then Mr Telstra man starts saying that I need to trust him and shit that my internet will be switched off. I said to him put me on hold for a minute and while I was on hold I hung up. Tried to call the phone back like 3 times but no one picked up.

Yeah many mistakes I made and NBN nor Telstra would do this. 
A few things I realised now are these
1. I don't think that the NBN will cut the internet off for a few hours just to an entire city just to replace some copper wires in a few areas
2. My grandparents don't even have wired internet, we have Fixed wireless internet (same thing I said before)
3.Telstra or NBN would never fucking call you for that shit and charge you money for postage for a box (should be covered by them)
4.they were trying to make me read out the numbers and shit on the phone and it doesn't work like that.
5.all scam calls we get always are addressed to my grandpa since his name and shit is available on the internet for some reason so that should of been first redflag.

There's more stuff that I realised but Im not bothered writing them down so yeah that's what happened to me today and how I almost got scammed