SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: The Rise of Fraud Foodies 
DATE: 2024-07-02
SCORE: 133
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1dt179m/the_rise_of_fraud_foodies/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently, a lot of restaurants in Hyderabad have come under the purview of GHMC and raids have taken place, news articles have been written and viral Instagram reels have been made. 
Great job by GHMC. Nice PR stunt. A good amount of money pocketed. 
My family runs a few restaurants in hyd (pls don’t ask me the name). We’ve had our fair share of Gyaan with GHMC. Most recent encounter being in march during which I openly said “if you want to discipline my restaurant send me a notice and ask me to improve wtv it is that I have to improve and I will do it diligently. But I will not shell out a single rupee as bribe.” And these people left us alone after that. 

Ever since the viral reels on Insta , we’ve been getting a lot of fraud foodies. 

One visited the restaurant today, me and my father were driving back home from a meeting. The flustered floor supervisor called up saying “ sir , apparently the customer found a big piece of steel wool in the food and is screaming and shouting. I have apologised and have changed his food but he is very angry, and his female friends are taking videos. He is demanding to talk to you (my father). 

This man 😂 proceeds to say big things like “ aarogya”, customer service, am I eating for free and what not. He then goes on to threaten us saying I will call tv5, ghmc, Instagram viral bla bla. 
My and my father have dealt with a lot of these idiots before. We first apologised saying that it might have been an honest mistake, the food shall be replaced and we shall check where the physical adulteration might have happened and conduct root cause analysis. 
This person wasted another 5 minutes threatening us and then !!!!! “ you have to give me compensation” 
We understood, we acted like fools and asked if he wanted cash. He asked how much we can give. We asked him how much he wants. He says “ you tell”. We said 5k 😂. He’s like “nooi that is too less. You do one thing, whenever I come to the restaurant, you have to give me free food otherwise I will call ghmc, tv5 and make viral Insta reels. “ we said sure sir. 

Dumb guy didn’t know he was being recorded and to top it all, we asked our supervisor to take a picture of him too. 

But honestly, restaurants have to deal with these idiots who place their own cockroaches in the restaurant food and then cry wolf.