SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Stuck in serious financial trouble, getting harrassed everyday. Need urgent help/advice
DATE: 2025-03-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1je1bxj/stuck_in_serious_financial_trouble_getting/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had maxed out my ICICI credit card. Limit was 3.4L. Till a long time I was making timely payments but eventually stopped due to financial distress. After the credit card was maxed out, the minimum due kept piling up which also I couldn't pay. Then I took loan against credit card of 2.2L at 14% interest for 18 months. I paid the entire amount to reduce my credit card dues. Then due to various financial problems and needs, I again almost exhausted the limit. I didn't exhaust it but every month bill was getting generated and it was being deducted from my limit and that's how eventually the limit got exhausted yet again. Then I got an option to convert the outstanding amount to EMI which I took and converted the outstanding to EMI for 36 months. Now, every month, I am getting a bill of 28k for 2 EMIs(one that I had taken earlier of 2.2L as loan against credit card, and the other for the EMI conversion). Total EMI is 28k. That 28k has again piled up and become 1 lakh outstanding. With minimum due of 67k. I have been receiving spam calls and harrasment calls continuously. All day my phone keeps vibrating with spam calls and messages by agents on WhatsApp. They ask me to pay my bill. They are not even from ICICI Bank, must be collection agents. Earlier this month, i received a call from a similar number that asked me to pay 34k(half of minimum due) after which the total EMI will be converted to 13k per month instead of 28k per month for a period of 5 months. I thought it's a good option and I can easily pay 13k per month so I made the payment of 34k. After paying that guy vanished. He had also warned me that if I don't pay the 34k my account will be declared as NPA and then recovery agents will reach my doorstep. He said if I pay 34k I will stop receiving these calls and threats. Once while I was in office one person even reached my house gate and sent me a picture to threaten me. Worried from all this I somehow borrowed money from Friends and family and paid the 34k thinking that all this harrasment will stop. But then, the guy who had assured me that all this will stop, completely vanished and blocked my phone number. Now I am again being harrassed with people messaging me and threatening me that they will visit my home and office and what not. Currently my outstanding is 1.09L and minimum due is 67k. The customer care is saying that the 34k that I paid has been adjusted with the 28k ka new bill that was generated this month and the total outstanding is again 1.09L with minimum due of 67k. I told the customer care that I'm getting these harrasment calls and I am not able to pay the amount of 28k every month, they said there is nothing that can be done and if I pay 67k I will stop getting harrasment calls. I told them that these calls are not even official, not even from ICICI, they said we don't know may be our third party collection agents are calling you. It you pay 67k they will stop calling. I am not in a position to pay 67k now. I can't even think of paying 1.09L. Huge outstanding over that is already pending. I am earning 35k a month and no bank is even giving me any personal loan at low interest rate so that EMI can be consolidated to 10-15k per month which I can easily pay. My application is getting rejected from everywhere. I can't even ask from my friends and family any more. Is there any way out for me in this? Or should I just wait to get socially ostracized and get beat up by collection agents? Please help me, please suggest me a way out of this.