SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My Amway Story
DATE: 2015-12-30
SCORE: 119
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3yr6f2/my_amway_story/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is in response to yesterday's thread which was discussing about Amway. I go to school in a university in the U.S. There is a brigade of Amway zombies in our campus - who are mostly of Indian and Pakistani origin. These are one of the most scheming guys I have ever met. One thing I have noticed is that they love to prey on international students - especially the ones from India. My room-mate was offered a $5 discount on Apple products if he subside to the Amway cult. He was wise enough to get out of that vicious offer.

Another friend of mine came so close to be lured in to the scam. The agent convinced her that he earned *half a million* dollars last year. I had the misfortune of working on a course project with this agent , who was slacking regularly. Once during the group session, this guy told that his monthly income from Amway was about 250 dollars. I just can't fathom how $250 per month adds up to half a million per annum. Maybe, he was referring to an year of Pluto. Luckily for her, she consulted my roommate before she signed up and he convinced her out of the scam.

So, one night my room-mate receives a text from Brendan, an American friend of ours. He wanted to validate an email he got from an Indian grad student because we are Indian and he trusted us. [This](http://imgur.com/NuE9RfY) was the screen shot he sent. We immediately recognized the sender as he was on our blacklist of Amway zombies. The email was nothing but an Amway invitation in a very devious disguise. The "business project with elite group of people" which he blots about is nothing but the cult. There is no other way that the agent can access Brendan's contact information other than the college directory. We were stumped at how low these guys can go! Needless to say, we saved Brendan out of the embarrassment and disgust of being ostracized by his friends in future. But I wonder how many fell in the trap. 

TL;DR - Elaborated on how Amway preys on uninformed students