SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Building Society Payments issue
DATE: 2024-10-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fw36os/building_society_payments_issue/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello,

My dad bought a 1 bhk apartment about 7 ish years ago and we've had no problems with payments of dues or anything. This is in Chennai and we live elsewhere so we only stay here whenever we visit chennai.

The apartment complex has an office through with the meintenance and other stuff is done and maintenance is being done by some private company.

My dad has been paying the maintenance moneyeith by cash or by cheque until 2022 when they stopped taking cash payments.

For one maintenance payment in July 2022, My dad had an issue with some scam so he had to lock his bank account for a little bit so he paid the maintenance amount by cash which the cashier accepted at the time and also sent a reciept online.

Fast forward a few months, the building management informed my father that the meintenance amount for July was still pending and would not accept the receipt my dad showed and also said that they mixed up the amount paid for the apartment next to us in our block.

The interest for the amount has been building up ever since, a dispute has been raised and still ongoing, my dad has talked to the treasurer and to the accounts department as well but theyre of no help so far. A court notice has also been sent to which they never responded. All other maintenance payments after the july 2022 have been paid including for this year.

We have been staying here since last thursday and today the power was cut in the morning and we found out it is only in our apartment while the neighbours had no issues. I went to the maintenance office to inform them to which they said we had to raise a complaint on an app, we did that but the app doesnt let us rise the complaint due to the maintenance dispute, the maintenance guys were saying theres no other way for them to look into the issue.

Anyway the power never came back and we had to leave to stay in a relatives place.

What course of action do we have, is it illegal to cut power even though all payments except for the disputed amount have been paid.

Appreciate all your inputs in advance.