SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Being mentally harrassed by (Ex) Friend and His Family.
DATE: 2021-11-22
SCORE: 38
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/qz53jm/being_mentally_harrassed_by_ex_friend_and_his/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone.

Long story short.

TLDR : Friend is now an enemy, constantly harassing us via social media creating fake accounts and deleting them when confronted. His mother is a cruel lady, who will go to depths to insult us and harm us without trigger accusing us of being casteist and can file a fake case against my dad for making remarks - We belong to higher caste and the ex friend is from a lower caste, We don't have any financial or political support like him and the law is against us. We Don't know what to do?

Full Story :

I was friends with Mr X in college. Mr X, He is a sociopath, I took pity and was pretty oblivious to this fact (I am an idiot.) I was a best friend to him for more than 7 years. I invited him to my house, we ate together and we were best friends, I stood by his worst times and he did too, and we were great at one time. However 2 years ago everything turned south. His mom did not approve of our friendship due to caste reasons (upper caste and he's from a different caste ) and made sure we broke off and she lied about being verbally harassed by my father on this outstation trip we had as a family along with everyone. Which was a single day public event with many people, who had no free or alone time together..

Her mom pulled this off by coming to a public outstation trip (around 50 members participated) with us (We were still friends at that time, and we took her as she wanted to come), The trip went well and nothing was wrong, After a few days She then falsely accusing my dad of using un modest words against her during the trip, and harassed us for days. This made my friend to rage out on us and bad mouth us everywhere, he and his mom then verbally harassed my little sister too when she confronted them, and as a measure slandered me and my family to our mutual friends group personally texting and calling them. I confronted him via phone and wanted to resolve this amicably ended our friendship and wanted to part ways, however, and it did not stop there it continued- we ignored it and moved on, and later covid hit. He got busy due to his obligations and I thanked god it's over and left it at that.

Fast forward 2 years, the relationship was cut off or I thought so, However, he took to social media yesterday, created fake accounts (Using different religious identities ), added fake statements about my family about that trip to our social media profiles tagging everyone I know damaging what ever friends and reputation I had. He further insulted my sister and our family, and again falsely claimed that we harassed them due to caste and her mother is constantly crying for being harassed two years ago. When I confronted him via a phone call, I told him I will take legal actions if those statements are untrue and, He quickly deleted the comments and tagged posts and his accounts, and I was only able to see deleted accounts and no proofs are there apart from some screenshots and a phone call.

The damage was already done, as most of my friends reached out to me and told me about the post on instagram.

I got emotional due to all the this, and was exhausted mentally. I made a phone call out of emotion tried to resolve this peacefully and warned him of legal actions if he keeps doing this fake social media behaviour and asked him for one final peace-full confrontation to sort it peacefully end this relationship which he ignored, His younger sister was the only one who spoke to me he avoided me like the plague and never listened to my pleas, and even claimed nothing was wrong with it.

I want to take this legally and find out the truth from him, and make him leave us alone. I don't have any proof apart from deleted social media accounts and some comments screenshots with fake ids of his deleted accounts, and slander (Which I have no recording of) at-least now, However they did not respond and recorded me at my weakest point where I threatened them with legal action , I am worried they will drag this on without an end and exhaust me to death.

I don't have any idea where to go from here - I just honestly want to be away from all this, I am worried his mom will take us to court and lie and drag us to the ground. (Being lowercaste is an incentive to them, and not worried about being modest is their plus point ) My father is aged and ill, so is my mom - my medical ordeals are enough for me, I don't have financial or mental strength like they do to fight this even though we are with truth (Looks like women's word work on courts more, and being upper caste isn't helping....)

Any advice is appreciated,

Thanks. 

Update : 
I visited a well known lawyer and multiple lawyers who heard my case today, and narrated the entire incident. They all had one important consensus, among others however, I took the most important and wanted to share here. 
All of the lawyers had the same consensus when they spoke to me, they all wanted me to file a cyber crime case warn him or move go radio silent and act like nothing happened to avoid being dragged to court.. That's all there is we can do. The cyber crime case is something I knew, however I don't have enough evidence to implicate him yet on that as these are fake usernames, and there is a very great chance he used a VPN.. 

Why are lawyers asking me to back out of being harassed ? reason being, right now some Sangs (DSS or Women Caste Sangs) which are predators, who would use this situation (upper caste vs lower caste ) and hog money from us (Upper castes) regardless of the truth, since law favours them, 
There is also less financial support from my end, which makes cases very expensive and I am financially incapable of handling it. It's like trying to run away from one and inviting 10 more to the house... So, I decided to hold back my tears and wait for a better chance, I will gather more evidence and make a stronger case before facing him or his family again if this happens again. However I will passively move away from this and hope this dies down, as that is my intention from day 1. 

Some tips given by lawyers are for future scenarios , might help someone else.... 
A Major mistake by me is calling them and giving them emotional leverage is making them stronger. All the evidence I have not amounts to nothing in the court of law for now as most of them are deleted on the social media, and this might not be able to fight this financially as it would drag on too much, which on the long run is expensive. What I could have done is wait it out gather all the evidence and file a complaint, and let police be the middle man who do the negotiations. Which would have been in my favour as they take it seriously if there is lot of evidence. 
What can I do further ? Here is a list I noted down. 

1. He asked me to keep a physical distance (Which I already have), and inform of the malicious actions to all my friends, personally calling the affected and ensure it's a misdemeanour act. 
2. He wanted me to block all my Ex Friends contacts and go radio silent on his matter to any known contacts as this is not my concern if I haven't done anything wrong., and ignore his taunts with intentions. 
3. The current proofs of deleted posts , screenshots are not enough to implicate him, He has support of major low caste sangis (DSS or Some other groups ) Who would take advantage of this situation and hog money from us (Even without proof.) Which the lawyers warned me about. 
4. Unless there is affected parties with multiple witnesses the harassment case won't stand and it's too large a gap was one lawyer's advice, and I choose to believe that. 

To everyone who commented, I extend my thanks. I will do my best to resolve this peacefully. Stay safe. 

TLDR : Don't call anyone who makes you false claims on you, gather evidence, wait for a good chance, let legal notice a lawyer / police take the course of action, be vary of people and their intentions file a cyber complaint, and hope for the best.