SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Elaborate Facebook Scam Ring Using Fake Profiles to...? How badly did I just mess up? 
DATE: 2024-08-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1eguyet/elaborate_facebook_scam_ring_using_fake_profiles/

--- POST TEXT ---

I think I've been suckered into a scam but I don't see what they get out of it, what I am missing? 

I found a counch on facebook marketplace that was a really good price and they were offering to deliver. I messaged and they said they could deliver today (same-day) and then asked for my address and phone number, then gave me their number in return. Then they asked if I could pay with PayPal and that's when I got suspicious. We eventually agreed on Venmo, they sent me the info-including last four digits of a phone number to confirm the profile. I paid, they asked for confirmation, I sent a screen shot of the transaction. Supposedly, they will bring the couch to my address this afternoon, after 3 pm, when they get off work and they will call me when they're close. Meanwhile I've been digging around and things aren't making sense. A summary of both the suspicious and not-suspicious information I've found. 

1. The phone number they gave me is a VOIP. When I called it rang a few times, it connected, there was silence, and then the call ended. I also texted the number and got nothing back but they're still messaging me on facebook. 

2. Their facebook profile is brand new. All the photos (four photos) are of the same person and don't come up as duplicated on google lens. 

3. the venmo account they gave me is a different name and is also brand new. 

4. Their grammar and word choice in our messages is odd. 

5. Their location is in my city. 

6. The images of the couch have been used in other cities facebook marketplace. 

7. They have 19 "friends". All their friends are in different cities, their profiles are also all brand new, they're all friends with eachother and no one else, but their images aren't pulled from somewhere else according to google lens. They've liked eachothers photos. 

8. One of the "friands" profiles is fake. They lifted a college athletes photo from their school's website and google lens found the real person. (I already reported the account and notified the individual through instagram), This profile is different than the other fake friends because they have over 100 friends and a bunch of them are real people, mostly Indian men, and they regularly post like a normal persons facebook profile. 

 
At this point, I'm 99% sure I've been scammed but I don't get the point. Am I just naive and ignorant? What are they gonna do when a couple hours from now, they're supposed to be at my apartment? I can cancel the transaction on Venmo and get my money back. They've learned my name, phone number, and address, but what can they do with that? How worried should I be?