SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Modi govt asking people to not panic as if it’s citizens’ fault: Sagarika Ghose on LPG crisis
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/modi-govt-asking-people-to-not-panic-as-if-its-citizens-fault-sagarika-ghose-on-lpg-crisis/2889269/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 26 (PTI) Accusing the government of not acknowledging the “severe LPG shortage”, TMC Rajya Sabha deputy leader Sagarika Ghose said on Thursday that the Centre was disconnected from reality and not making any attempts to calm the concerned citizens. The Trinamool Congress leader alleged that the government was attempting to shift the blame and the burden of the crisis onto the common people.
“The Narendra Modi government is totally disconnected from all reality. Across India, whether it’s small eateries, restaurants, small industry, informal sector, workers, homemakers, senior citizens, students, all are bearing the brunt of these severe shortages of LPG gas,” Ghose told PTI Videos.
“But the Modi government is simply not willing to accept this reality. It is saying, “Oh, please don’t panic.” As if citizens are responsible for this emergency, as if it’s the citizens’ fault that they are panicking,” she said.
Show Full Article
She said it was “obvious” that people would panic, as she questioned why the government had not stocked supplies.
“Obviously, citizens will panic if there is a prospect of no LPG and shortfalls of LPG. Why has the government not stockpiled supplies of LPG? Why isn’t there a proper plan of action to deal with the LPG crisis?” she asked.
“If citizens are not able to cook at home, they’re not able to cook their daily food at home; if restaurants and small eateries are not able to provide cooked food, then what does this mean?” Ghose asked, adding that this is not just about shortages, but “an all-round failure of the Narendra Modi government that is now staring at us in the face”.
The TMC had skipped the meeting convened by the Modi government on Wednesday to discuss the West Asia situation, with the party questioning why there is no discussion in Parliament when it is in session and holding a meeting in a “conference room”.
Ghose had also objected to the Opposition not being allowed to ask questions in the Rajya Sabha after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a statement on the situation in West Asia.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stated in the Rajya Sabha that the government has constituted seven empowered groups to develop strategies for fuel, supply chains, and fertilisers, among others, to mitigate the impact of the West Asia crisis.
He said the war has created a serious energy crisis globally, warned miscreants against taking advantage of the crisis, and asked state governments to check black marketing and hoarding.
Modi also asserted that the government is trying to procure gas and crude oil from all available sources, and efforts will continue in the coming days, while noting that necessary preparations have been made for the adequate supply of fertilisers. PTI AO MPL MPL
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.