SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Amazon Scammed me of Rs.23,999 and is refusing refund 
DATE: 2024-11-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gx17k2/amazon_scammed_me_of_rs23999_and_is_refusing/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: Ordered a Quest 3 on amazon, paid 24k trusting amazon return policies in case things go wrong.They sent me a water bottle and refusing a refund although I have all the proof they just dont even wanna look at it. They dont even wanna speak to me they keep disconnecting the call, is this what i deserve after being a customer for more than a decade and spent lakhs and lakhs. They are denying refund citing false reasons. I do have an unboxing video. Please help me on how to proceed for refund

Full story for anyone whos interested or can help me on how to proceed to get refund. 
4/11/24- Saw the listing for 23,999 from seller Roto Traders. Was suspicious but spoke to a amazon agent who assured me nothing to worry I will get my refund in case seller is a fraud. I made my order

Days pass initially seller ships with xpressbees supposedly and gives tracking. No movement of parcel. I contacted customer service multiple times and asked for refund because it got too suspicious. They even sent a message to the seller still no response and was told I was been issued a refund. Days pass and suddenly the tracking and shipper change to Delhivery and it gets delivered, received by my roommate. 

I contact customer care immediately because the box is much smaller and lighter. I tell them the situation. He tells me to open the box, I record myself opening the box and theyve sent me a WATER BOTTLE!

Customer agent tells me to contact in sometime as order hasnt been marked delivered. I do the same and they start an investigation on the same. I relax because well? It is obvious its a scam if you go through the reviews now multiple people have gone through the same scam so I am confident I will get my refund.

To my surprise I receive an email stating false reasons that I have multiple times claimed that I have missing products and asked for refund hence no refund will be given.
Mind you I have never ever said Ive not received my product ever and I have returned every refund back to them except once for a tempered glass costing a few 100rs which they told me to keep. They LIED and DENIED MY REFUND. 

WORST OF ALL? I kept trying to get in touch with an agent and guess what they all do? They cut the call or disconnect the chat on me saying “ We have provided you a resolution” Unbelievable. They scam me and they dont even care enough to speak to me. This is atrocious I have been using amazon for more than a decade, have spent lakhs and lakhs on it and thousands of orders and the one time I get cheated by a seller in all these years? They dont even care to speak to me. They treat me like garbage while im begging them to just look at the reviews and that Im not the only one whos gotten scammed and to pls look at my video of unboxing. They DONT CARE THEY CUT MY CALL. Finally after multiple tries a woman told me to to reply to the email I had received saying they will not refund me because of “too many times I have claimed missing products”.

They outright lied, I contacted them before placing order. I recorded the call because I was suspicious of the seller. They assured me it will be fine and now they have betrayed me. They are taking the side of a new seller with no reviews over a decade long customer who has spent lakhs and lakhs. I lit have proof including the fact that they could literally just check the shipping weight of the shipment which is 500g and realise that there is no way a quest 3 would ship under 500g, quick google shows a shipping weight of atleast 2.5kgs for quest 3. All the proof is there but they refuse to even look at it. This is robbery and betrayal. This is atrocious. Amazon has become similar to flipkart I guess.

PLEASE HELP ME GET MY REFUND. WHAT SHOULD I DO? Consumer case? Social media? Please help me. My decade long trust in amazon has been shattered to pieces.