SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Harassment from loan app
DATE: 2021-05-17
SCORE: 88
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/ne92lt/harassment_from_loan_app/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had taken a loan of INR 25,000 from a particular loan app due to some health issues, and as the bank was not willing to lend me anything less than INR 50,000. It was for a period of 6 months. Now, due to my company downsizing I recently lost my job, and I wasn't able to pay even the very first EMI. I immediately emailed the respective customer support team about my situation (with relevant proofs like my company's termination letter), and informed them I'll be able to start paying back the EMIs from the month of June 2021. The email I got was some template, with a line asking me to pay the installment immediately. I emailed them back, asking for clarity, but I got the same copy pasted template back. More than a dozen emails were exchanged between us, but I still got the standard complaint, and nothing else.

Meanwhile, the very next day of missing the due date of the EMI, I started receiving calls from the collections department. I informed them of my situation. They told me there's nothing they could do, and if I don't pay it towards the end of the day, they'd be taking legal action. I tried appealing to their human side but to no avail. In the end, I have up and simply stopped answering their calls, and they stopped answering my emails, too.

Since that day till today, I'm getting 20+ calls from their collections team, who are using very foul language and threatening me. I'm receiving messages from them on WhatsApp, Telegram, Facebook, Instagram, almost everywhere possible. They're commenting all over my social media feed, and almost publicly shaming me. Sometimes I receive calls at like even 3-4am but I don't have proof it's from them, as every time I answer it's just heavy breathing and bad words. They've even started visiting my house, harassing me and my 73 year old father, threatening us, banging the door, hurling abuses and just disturbing the entire neighborhood. Given the lockdown situation in my city, they're still visiting our house with no or half worn masks in groups of 3-5, intimidating me and dad.

I'm sick and tired of this behaviour already, and regret the day I took the look. I feel like I'd rather die than tolerate these people. I've heard something about a RBI Ombudsman but have no idea of how to complain to them. Is there any action that can be taken against them? Since I'm new to all of this, I'd really appreciate it if you could help me understand how all this works, since I'm pretty sure whatever they've been doing isn't legal.

Edit: The loan app is called Cashe