SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Beware of Scams from Movers and packers companies 
DATE: 2024-08-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1eqg9ru/beware_of_scams_from_movers_and_packers_companies/

--- POST TEXT ---

I recently needed to move my 2BHK from Delhi to Hyderabad. To make apartment hunting easier, I decided to ship my scooter first. Sharing my experience here.

spoiler alert : My experience was extremely bad.

I chose a mover who had been following up with me for two months. He quoted ₹5,000 for door-to-door delivery, which I negotiated down to ₹4,500. He said he was from "GATI" movers and packers , which I found out later that GATI is a well known brand and his was an impersonation of the company.

He collected the scooter as planned on morning and provided a receipt for ₹4,500.
Later that evening, he again sends me a receipt or "invoice". Which states total price as 7.2k.
This is where I get the trailer of the upcoming series of scams that were about to come my way.

I called him right away to ask how is he sharing an updated price after taking the scooter, he said it's GST and insurance and he thought it's something he doesn't needs to mention.

I decided not to call back the scooty. Told him I will give him the remaining amount once he delivers the scooty in Hyderabad . Also I will give him 6500 instead 7200 . 

He agrees, I asked him again and again by when the scooty will reach he assured me each time on 1st of August , that is after 5 days.

1st August I call him in morning expecting to receive my scooter anytime during the day , but he says I don't know when it will reach he will update me further in evening.

Being naïve of scamsters , I asserted over the fact that he promised me delivery on 1st how will he deliver today if he will inform me the status in evening.

Now He said he is sure that it won't be delivered today. I got angry, his response was in a calm tone was that, we said on first doesn't means we will deliver by then. 

Evening comes , I call him , he updates me that he wants the remaining money which is why he is not delivering.

On pointing out to the conversations and conditions we had agreed upon he simply said if I don't, he won't deliver my stuff.

With no choice, I paid ₹6,500, hoping the scam would end there. However, he then informed me that the transporter in Nagpur refused to move the scooter without full payment.

He shares me the number of the Transport guy and asks me to deal with him myself.

Turns out he just took the booking and give it to the transport guy, a third party, to complete the order.

Called the transport guy , turns out he is not moving because he has not received the entire amount from the movers and packers guy.

His 1k was remaining.

But the transport guy sounded better spoke like a respecful human not like a drunk degenerate.

I decided to try my luck with him one last time and paid him 1k by now the movers and packers guy had blocked me.

After more delays, the scooter reached a Hyderabad godown. The godown owner , another party enters the story. Transport guy for some reason didn't deliver my scooty by him self but kept it in some godown.

11 days after the promised delivery date , The godown owner demanded ₹1,000 for labor to deliver the scooter. I agreed, sent him a location far from where I am living, collected the scooter, and sped home without paying the additional amount. The godown owner threatened to call the police, I blocked him.

These guys use your stuff, in this case my scooter as a hostage and try to extort as much money they can .

Please be aware. If they claim to be Ampl or Gati , cross checking with the official website might save you from headaches after, like what I should have done.

I am glad I was able to retrieve my scooter, it was the first vehicle I bought with my own money, at one point I had lost hopes that I will receive it back.

I still have my house to be shifted and I am unable to trust any company in this market , any suggestions on this are welcome.