SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: CodeB / C3Media / Data Optimization Scam
DATE: 2023-09-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/16eb1od/codeb_c3media_data_optimization_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey all, I have seen this scam going around on WhatsApp specifically and dove a little deeper to give everyone some insight. I have lots of experience working with overseas teams so I knew what to look for. I commented this on another post but also wanted to give my experience here so people could be on the lookout. As I explained below these scams sometimes front as reputable companies.

I was contacted by an "Ian Martin" recruiter Amelia on WhatsApp asking if I was still looking for a job. I said yes. She gave me the details of the job, didn't make much sense but I have a history of working with reputable overseas development teams. So while it seemed scammy I also know overseas team have a really hard time marketing themselves properly. I knew I could continue with little risk to myself. I said I was interested and she said the "person in charge" would contact me. I was contacted by "Lee" also on WhatsApp with an extremely friendly looking profile picture. You just want to give Lee a hug and be his friend. I asked Lee information about the job and he said to contact the recruiter. Pretty good tactic really as this would be a normal job operation. I asked the recruiter but oh look, my texts don't deliver. Lee reached back out to me a few days later and asked if I had heard from the recruiter. I said no and my texts weren't delivering. He said the same and that was really odd but he'd take it from there and we didn't need to worry about her. Okay, bye Amelia! The website he gave is [codeb.co.in](https://codeb.co.in/). I am pretty confident this is a dummy site but these type of scams are known to front as small but reputable companies. They do their research, and even if you reached out to the company there would be enough ambiguity you could continue. The job role was data optimization. I've done this and I also know this is frequently contracted out. Not to US citizens mind you - companies tend to contract this out to the Philippines and India for cheap labor - so that should be your first tip off. Why is a company willing to pay me a premium for such a simple job? I was promised a base salary of $800 for for 5 days all the way up to $3800 for 30 days plus commission. All of this for an HOUR of work each day. I told Lee this was too good to be true. He said he understood my worry but I could quit at anytime if I feel uncomfortable. WOW! Competitive salary and treating their employees fairly - do I really care if its a scam???! Next is signing up for a training. I said okay, please send it to my email and he said no we will stay on WhatsApp so he can track something. Another red flag. But I said okay, send me the training link. The training link goes to [ca-gncodeb3mg.com](https://ca-gncodeb3mg.com/) which just says "I'm here to steal your information". So I signed up with fake info - these sites will likely take your info and introduce you to more scams! I took a look around and that was about it. The terms and conditions were funky at best. It said if I had a withdrawal of $10k or more I would be required to pay a 30% fee that would immediately be refunded - nice! So yes, this is likely a recovery scam. Please note some of this scams front as reputable companies. On LinkedIn CodeB shows as a full stack development company with 30 employees in India. While I cannot confirm that they are not in on the scam I also know its not worth potentially ruining a reputable business. I work constantly with developers out of Armenia and the Philippines and if you didn't know them you might think they are scammers. This is not their fault, they are a casualty of their cultural. So please, watch out for scams but also remember there are those in these areas trying to do respectable and reputable business.