SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Hegseth says ‘no punishment’ for helicopter aircrew that flew near Kid Rock’s house
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/world/hegseth-says-no-punishment-for-helicopter-aircrew-that-flew-near-kid-rocks-house/2893580/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Phil Stewart
March 31 (Reuters) – Pentagon chief Pete Hegseth said on Tuesday that the suspension of the aircrew from two U.S. Army Apache attack helicopters that flew near singer Kid Rock’s house over the weekend had been lifted.
His comments came after a U.S. official told Reuters the aircrew were suspended following the move.
“Thank you @KidRock. @USArmy pilots suspension LIFTED. No punishment. No investigation. Carry on, patriots,” Hegseth wrote on X.
Show Full Article
On Saturday, Rock posted a video on X showing two Army Apache helicopters flying next to his house in Nashville, Tennessee. The singer, standing in front of his swimming pool, can be seen saluting one of the helicopters.
Military helicopters were also seen flying close to demonstrators in the city, who were taking part in organized protests decrying Trump’s aggressive deportation efforts, war in Iran and other policies.
The U.S. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, did not provide further details on the suspension. Reuters reported on Monday that the Army was investigating the incident and an Army spokesman declined further comment when contacted by Reuters on Tuesday.
“Army aviators must adhere to strict safety standards, professionalism, and established flight regulations. An administrative review is underway to assess the mission and verify compliance with regulations and airspace requirements,” U.S. Army spokesperson Major Montrell Russell said on Monday.
“Appropriate action will be taken if any violations are found. Until the review is complete, there will be no further comment,” Russell added.
The U.S. military is supposed to be apolitical, loyal to the U.S. Constitution and independent of any party or political movement.
Since being sworn in last year, Hegseth has moved quickly to reshape the military, firing top generals and admirals as he seeks to implement Trump’s national security agenda and root out diversity initiatives he calls discriminatory.
Democratic lawmakers have warned the Trump administration is increasingly trying to use the military for political gain.
In his post about the helicopters, Rock took a swipe at Democratic California Governor Gavin Newsom, adding: “God Bless America and all those who have made the ultimate sacrifice to defend her.”
Over the weekend, as part of the anti-Trump “No Kings” protests, more than 3,200 events were planned in ​all 50 states. Local news said thousands took part in the protests in Nashville.
(Reporting by Phil Stewart; Additional reporting by Jasper Ward; Editing by Nia Williams)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.