SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Got scammed 13200 rupees near Hafeezpet flyover by a man who claimed they lost control of their bike and bike fell on of their grandmother's foot.
DATE: 2023-10-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/17jrdtc/got_scammed_13200_rupees_near_hafeezpet_flyover/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I was driving around the city for practicing with my new car yesterday. I have 'L' stickers pasted in front and on rear both. Miyapur - Hafeezpet it was one hell of a traffic. Near Hafeezpet flyover I stopped for a while as there was a tempo boarding passengers. Now all of a sudden a Mohamelmedan man came in an auto and started abusing me asking whether I didn't see that they fell off their bike. He claimed he and his elder brother was carrying their 90 year old grandmother on their bullet and I supposedly went left as one Creta on my right side pushed me left and his elder brother hit front brakes hard. 

Now, I let him enter my car and he was asking to carry their grandmother with him to Hospital. He was getting multiple calls and he was telling everyonr his grandmother fell off. He was saying I would get beaten very bad. I was alone and got scared very much, so I pled him to leave me after taking some money. I offered him to pay via Google pay, he said he has loan and his CIBIL scope would get down if I pay online somehow. I was getting a vibe of it being a scam but I was somehow morally stuck and wanted it to to be over as soon as possible. We went to 2 petrol pumps and in the second one I paid 13200 in Gpay and petrol pump guy gave him cash. During the whole time he was saying I should not drive in traffic and so on and he said he has driven a lot in UAE; he was advising me not to use indicator and to use hazard lights instead as I am new. His behavior improved over the course of time. After giving him money I requested him to get off my car and he did. He was repeatedly saying to wish for his grandmother and asked me not to come to Hafeezpet for next couple days as his relatives will kill me. 

After coming to ofc today and discussing with my collegaye, I am confirm that I got scammed big time. But I was scared to death when it happened and was hoping he would not unleash any weapon. God knows why they were travelling with 90 year old lady in a bullet. ( as per his claim) . He never said that my car hit them though. 

I feel a dashcam would have saved me big time. Nevertheless, lesson learnt.