SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammer now blackmailing me again
DATE: 2021-10-26
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/qgbztf/scammer_now_blackmailing_me_again/

--- POST TEXT ---

Need help immediately.
I am from India. I got a message from a girl for sex chat, and we started chatting on whatsapp. At night she told me to do video call, I was hesitant at first to reveal my face so I told her I won’t show her my face. After some time she told me to wear a mask if I was uncomfortable. So I wore a mask and picked up the video call. She was fully nude and started seducing me, I too became aroused and joined her in dirty talks. She told me to remove mask but I never removed my mask. After some time she told me to show my dick which I showed her. After some time the video call ended. After few minutes she messaged me with the whole video and blackmailed me that she will share the video with my family members. I don’t know how but despite using mask they used some face recognition to get my Facebook id and told me to send them 15k or else they will send the video to my whole family and Facebook friends. I talked to the man who was working with the girl. After much negotiations I finally give him 8k rupees on promise he will delete my video. Later he told me to give 7k more, he also threatened me by sending the video to a family member and told me to give the remaining 7k fast to unsend the message. I gave him the remaining 7k too on his promise that he will screen share and show me him deleting the video. But that never happened and his message stopped coming. 
I immediately deleted my Facebook profile, and blocked him on whatsapp and his number.
The next day he is again messaging and calling me to send more money with a different number. I have decided I will not send him a single penny now else he will threaten me again.
Now I am left with 2 choices either 
1. to ignore his messages and block him again without replying or 
2. pick up his call and tell him (bluff) that i don’t care now if he sends my video to anyone and threaten him to report his UPI id to cyber crime.

TLDR: showed my dick to a girl, who working with a man is now blackmailing me to send more money, I already gave him 15k rupees and not gonna give him more now. Left with only 2 choices now given above.

What should I do?