SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Being harassed by VI
DATE: 2024-03-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bkxmoq/being_harassed_by_vi/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR: I asked VI to discontinued my number 3 months back after clearing the bill untill then. They haven't disconnected the numbers yet and keep billing me every month and call me 10-15 times in a day for payment reminders.

Long story: I needed few temporary numbers for testing my product about 9 months back. I went to VI store with intention of buying 5 prepaid simcards but they ended up convincing me to buy a family plan with 5 numbers. 
When I actually tried to use these numbers(to recieve the sms) only 2 of the 5 numbers worked. I was busy back then so I didn't complained but managed to get my worked done using friends number. Didn't need any of these numbers anymore and lost them(basically kept them somewhere and forgot)

Now at the end of month they billed me and called me few time (on alternate number) to remind me about payments. I cleared the bill for that month and asked them discontinue the number but they asked me to visit the store and I kept on insisting to stop the numbers online as I don't have time to go to store.

Even after my multiple request on calls. They didn't disconnect the number for months and kep raising the bill every month even when they suspended the service due to non payment. They kept calling me for payment and I kept ingnoring the call. Fast forward 3-4 months they send a guy to collect payment to my home without any intimation. I didn't want to pay but they discounted the outstanding bill and amount that they were asking was not the worth the scene that guy would so I ended up paying again. I again requested them to stop the services and this time they told me raise a request via their app. I also dropped an email to support to asking them to discontinue the service. 

Fast forward again 3 months, they still haven't discontinued the service and are still billing me. I finally gave up and went to their store. This is what they told me.

1. They have to call the number being disconnected to confirm whether the number owner(who is me ) actually wants yo discontinue. Even though number is registered with my I'd, apparently me being there physically with government ID is not enough.
2.I don't have the numbers with me so there is no way I can receive the call. I asked them to call the alternate number ( which they call on 10-15 times for payment reminders) but apparently that's not going to work.
3. Now to discontinue the service, 

A. I will have to pay entire outstanding bill even this services were suspended by them for entire time and phone number has not been used for months even receive a single sms. Forget , numbers haven't even connected to their network in 8-9 months.
B. Then I have to pay again to get the numbers and then raise the discontinuation request. Receive the confirmation call. 
C. Then for pay for the time they take to discontinue the number.

All of this sounds like ellaborate scam. Please let me know if I can do anything here. What can happen if I just start ignoring their payment reminder calls hoe they eventually move on from me or should I just take the hit pay whatever they ask and be done with this?