I am mugunthan from tamilnadu, sir i received letter from shopclues kolkatha, nalini ranjan avenue, basantalla saha road, new alipore kolkatha, west bengal-700753 in this address. This letters present two coupons for 11lacks price money after i call help line number mentioned that letter. He says i won 11lack price money and want my bank detail i sent it. After ask 5500 rupees for 0.5% gst and suddenly tell 1.5%, 16500 and tell this is last amount i paid that amount and doesn't send my price money after i call them he's told income tax 2% paid after transfer my price money. I told doesn't have money but he told first pay 1%-11k, and definitely send my price money and i paid that 11k but suddenly told send another 11k after i send my price money that money also i paid and suddenly tell you paid that tax in two transactions thats not accept and paid income tax in single transaction and i already paid amount is sended with my price money. And i accpet that i transfer 22k in single transaction before i paid that 22k conform many time in he this is last payment or not ha. But after he doesn't send my price money and call them and suddenly told another tax present that tax is multimedia tax 3% you pay 33k after send my price money with in 2 minutes what will be i do here after, i ask many many time what proof you have for my price money send to me after i decide that me pay 33k or not ha. They send one check photo after i send that 33k arranged by bank loan after he i transfer but get holded in my account after he told multicity check is bounced. Any way he ask 12310 is processing payment. I also paid that but he doesn't send my money and tell today[protected] conformed sent it my account but till now doesn't sent and i call them and ask him but they suddenly told another 5% for service cost but i will get shocked after that i told i doesn't want your price money you refund what amount i paid but they doesn't response for that. I don't know what i do here after please help me sir i am poor potter family till now i paid totally 105810 rupees. Please take action about my complaint, that helpline number is: [protected] and i want sir your mailid or your whatsapp number because i sent all proof to you please help me!