SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My two cents on attack and its causes
DATE: 2025-04-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1k8x0c6/my_two_cents_on_attack_and_its_causes/

--- POST TEXT ---

My thoughts and questions regarding attack

1) Intelligence quality - what went wrong with our intelligence? Did we monitor wrong areas? Or is government chain of command ignoring the local intelligence and foreign intelligence? Has our quality of intelligence gone low? 

2) cost cutting - In the name of cost cutting , we are cutting corners in wrong areas like number of armed forces , Quality intelligence , quality military equipments like drones but using the same fund for political campaigns , funding states for political appeasement and freebees. For example , it is very hard for me to believe that there were absolutely no CCTV anywhere at a major high security area of attack . If it was China or USA , we would have AI enabled cameras all over such places . Instead we have government blaming tourist guides that they went to a closed tourists place .

3) Local government - i know they have nothing to do with security of J &amp; K . But can we trust them ? For example , WB Mamta is known to import Bangladeshi immigrants to skew voter base . This introduces large terrorists risk inside country .Is high time we have center rule in both J &amp; K and WB? 

4) Demography - J &amp; K muslims hate India rule over them . They definitely feel that Hindus are buying lands and business and their fear is soon in decades they will become minority and might be pushed out from their land . Should government do something about it to give more priorities to local population and limit outsiders from buying property? 

5) Political appeasement - Both parties are utilising Hindu vs muslim agenda just to be in power without actually doing anything for welfare of people . Is this an another get rich scam of uneducated rowdies (politicians i mean) that working population is falling for “ you are not safe without us protecting you “ narratives? Seems like entire MO of leaders of Pakistani , India and Bangladesh to stay in power. 

Please add in if i missed anything