SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I got scammed (Indian)
DATE: 2023-08-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/15z81bm/i_got_scammed_indian/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is long but please read it for me. I am a young female and i recently lost my phone, i dropped it accidentally from a vehicle and i ran back instantly to pick it but someone already picked it up and took it home, i called multiple times but no answer and they switched it off later. My family does not have much money so i was very devastated but i summed up my courage and told my parents and they say it was fine and not to be so heartbroken and that mistakes can happen and i was just unlucky. As stated, we don't have much money so I don't even own a laptop and i am a student. Since i lost my phone, my parents said they will give me Rs 30,000 INR and told me to buy myself an iPhone since i study much from my phone as printing materials is pricey and I don't have a laptop so a good phone will give me better experience in studying. Plus i was and am always a good student and always studied hard. I went through Instagram and found a page that sells iPhone and contacted them through dm, they asked for prepayment and i checked their highlights and i thought they were legit, but i was so naive, because i trust people too much and i will never ever scam a person, i sent them the money because they requested prepayment and they said that they shipped it but did not send tracking id. I asked multiple times and called but they always told me to wait, but i was never suspicious so i waited patiently, todays marked the 13th day since they said they shipped it and I haven't received yet so i called multiple times but they didn't answer and took down their account, i burst out crying, i realised i was scammed and headed straight to Cyber Crime Police Station, they helped me write an FIR and told me to attach bank statement, but the lady told me that even though they are going to try their best, she told me not to keep my hopes up because even if they did find out the culprit, most of the time their(the culprits') local police did not want to hand over the culprits because the culprits bribed them and that since it is from other state, there is so little they can do. I've been crying since i got home, 30,000 may not be much for some people but it was all we have, everytime my parents come into my thoughts my heart break. I cannot even study and i am restless. I haven't told my parents since I don't live with them and told them that i am waiting a bit more and saving up, i am now using my sister's old phone. My heart is broken, i just want to die right now, all these unpleasant events come one by one, my rent skyrocketted this month because my cousins left me without prior notice for a cheaper hostel. I am breaking down I can't stop crying, i live alone so that makes it worse. Please help me people of reddit. Can someone do something about it, i just want to die i can't stop crying. I can't even work a job because i have to go to attend my classes and there is no part time job here in North-East India. I only have 500 savings to my name and I can't do anything about the money I lost. I wish a bus hit me tomorrow. How can people do this to other people. I never even eat at a restaurant, I don't have any means of saving up INR 30,000 on my own. I feel so helpless.