SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: YouTube ad advertising “starscope monocular”
DATE: 2021-02-06
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/le1ec6/youtube_ad_advertising_starscope_monocular/

--- POST TEXT ---

For context, I am browsing YouTube. I found and and advertising a phone lens that can zoom in from miles away. “Created by a team of nature lovers”, it said. Just another classic ad with stock footage. Didn’t think of it at the time. Then, today, I saw another ad, for the same thing, but with a different story. A “team of researchers at an university developed this lens with thousands of beta tests” created it this time. I thought it was suspicious so I went to the respective links added to both ads. 

so the product being advertised in question is a Phone monocular lens. So I clicked the links they provided, and it brought me to superzoomtech.com and lovenewtech.co. First thing I noticed was that the “created by a team of nature lovers” story wasn’t on the site. Their company address listed San Dieago, I’ll get into that later. I reverse searched their images on their site and most of them are variations of stock photos. The product they were advertising seemed suspicious as I doubt a camera lens only for 100 dollars could zoom that much. Another point was that their reviews oddly had all people had profile pictures clearly depicting their face. So I assume they used thispersondoesntexist.com to get the photos of people. Also, the reply and like buttons under the reviews *dont work*. Now I looked up their “company address” which happened to be in a shopping outlet in San Diego. Thought that was sus. Using google street view, I looked around, and nothing had the company name on it. So, I looked up the parent company name. The address listed there, is in India. Not trying to be discriminatory but a lot of scam companies seem to originate in India. I then proceeded to look up their company on google and their main website and they mention nothing, about a camera lens or products they sell, only something about business and IT services. Now, looking for reviews on this company, it appears they go under 2 names- thinknyx enterprises and thinknyx technologies LLP. thought that was weird and reviews show that they have a track record of failing to deliver products and their lens reviews on YouTube show that the videos of their lens zoom is fake, and really done with high tech camera stuff, unlike what they are advertising.

I am having mixed feelings about this company, as they could be a really incompetent company, or a total scam company. What are your thoughts?