SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My Underage Scam Story (Help Raise Awareness)
DATE: 2023-02-02
SCORE: 14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/10ras9z/my_underage_scam_story_help_raise_awareness/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I was scrolling Hinge one night and matched with this girl named Logan (can see it being a unisex name). Profile said she was 22 (I'm 24) and lived in a city over from me here in Florida. Her college said she went to USC in California. So we start talking a bit on the app until she wants to move it to text which seemed fairly normal to me. She texted me first because I had sent my number over the app. The area code wasn't one I recognized and looked it up and it's from Cali where USC is located so didn't think anything of it. We start having some conversation and basic get to know you better questions and what not. She started talking about her grandma being in the hospital and how she was distraught because of the situation. Me trying to be a nice person, was sending messages trying to make her feel better (Nothing sexual or anything of that accord, just that I recently lost my grandma myself so I know what she was going through). Out of the blue she says that shes 17 but turns 18 next month. I told her that's cool, I don't mind conversation if you need someone to talk (because of the grandma thing as well as me not recognizing this scam, just trying to be a nice person) but that it needs to be in no way sexual. She ends up sending me a titty picture (without provocation from me) and I immediately deleted it and then sent a message saying that she needs to not send me things like that. She claims she's "mature" for her age and what-not and I just replied with "It doesn't matter how you feel, you're underage. Any word on how your grandma is doing?" And then she sent a few texts about what she was going through and I said something along the lines of "well I hope you're grandma is doing okay and things get better" and that was the end of our conversation, I just deleted the texts after that with a sneaking suspicion that this was a scam but had never heard of or seen one on a dating app. 

&amp;#x200B;

The next day while I'm at work, I get a text from her "parent" claiming that they were going to press charges and have me court martialed and that I would have a warrant out for my arrest unless I respond to their text in 5 minutes. I was a little fearful at this time but just read through it and deleted it and didn't really think anything more of it. 

&amp;#x200B;

Then today while I'm at work, i get a random call from a number and I don't remember the "parents" number but the unknown call I got today seemed similar to that of the "parents" so I just ignored it. About 10 minutes later I get another unknown number call but from a different number and I ignore it again thinking they can leave a voicemail or text if it's important. Then a text comes through from the second number that tried calling claiming to be "so and so investigator and that I need to get in contact with him about a warrant he has for me on his desk". I was still slightly suspicious but also pretty freaked out. So I gave the number a call and surprisingly it sounded very much like a well spoken individual, seemed to have an African American accent but he was well versed and spoke with punctuality (Typical scammers from my experience have a very heavy Indian or Nigerian accent). Not this guy. He talks to me about the texts he has as "evidence" and that he knows my name and the app we had met on. I talk to him a bit to appease him and in my mind I'm trying to figure out if this is legit or not. He finally gets to a point where he tells me that the family is looking to press charges because they found their daughter slicing her wrists and that they'll possibly drop charges if I help cover medical bills and handle this outside the courts. 

&amp;#x200B;

At this point I knew that this was a scam and definitely felt relieved. I immediately looked up "Hinge Underage Scam" and found plenty of posts on here with very similar stories and breathed a sigh of relief even though I definitely don't think I had done anything wrong, it was still harassment and threatening that got my stomach turning a bit

&amp;#x200B;

Things I should've recognized and know now after the fact, thanks mostly to this subreddit:

* If you're going to be arrested for a warrant, the officers or parents would not contact you by text or phone, you will just have your door busted open and be in handcuffs
* The punctuality of the text from the parents was a clear sign to be fake, the way they constructed their sentences when talking about their daughter made no sense
* She had unmatched with me on Hinge after she got my number, but was still texting me. I went back to her profile to gauge who I was talking to on the other end
* Nothing I did would cause for a warrant to be out for my arrest, everything that could've been illegal was initiated from her end
* Called ID is a huge help, both numbers that called came up with simply the number and most cell carriers now have Caller ID in your phone plan

This subreddit eased my mind when I was definitely freaking out a little so I thought I would share my post in hopes that it eases someone else in the future or even prevent someone from going through the mini heart attack I had happen to me.