SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: My proof of concept exploring the possibility that psychiatry is psuedoscience
DATE: 2025-04-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1juxah7/my_proof_of_concept_exploring_the_possibility/

--- POST TEXT ---

I posted in r/psychiatry reddit this:

A bold claim?

The patient says this, what are your thoughts on this?

"I estimate 95% of psychiatric dignosis to be wrong on a superficial level and 100% of them wrong on a deeper level where the truth operates. I estimate 80% of first time diagnosis even in genuine medical specialities to be wrong. If you go to a doctor for something, you will always get a dignosis, regardless of the fact that doctor understood "what is wrong". He will never say "Sorry I do not understand what is causing this, but let me study this for a while, research your problems by referring relevant literature and run some diagnostic tests while keeping you in loop to validate/invalidate my hypothesis about you." He will give a prescription for an illness whose symptoms roughly match your subjective experiences of illness you describe without having a deep medical knowledge of your illness.

If he says "I don't know man, this thing doesn't make sense to me right now because I as a human being am error prone, and cannot recall everything at every random moment; but I don't want to toy around with your life by giving around a false diagnosis, as the medicines that I prescribe are not harmless substances, as they have a working mechanism of action and are meant to be taken only if you have the matching illnessess", we would really appreciate that, but just as he starts contemplating this in order to say that, just as he starts thinking in his head: "I don't know.....", he feels that all his learnings have been invalidated; as a doctor he is supposed to know illnesses. So he would, for obvious reasons, rather err on the side of harming the patient rather than taking up time to turn up as an ignorant fool, for he fears that the patient may even ask for his money back: "Why the heck did I even pay you, you know jackshit! your efforts didn't solve my ailment!"

Doctors think they are Gods as they are saving people's lives, but I would rather worship "apple" as my God if it keeps such "doctors" away. When doctors go on strikes, they are inevitably improving people's general health in the long term, as less people die from misdiagnosis related deaths, you know that? But what Doctor would like hearing this after they have toiled around so hard in their fields?"

Sorry, this post has been removed by the moderators of r/Psychiatry.

r/Psychiatry u/Madhur328 is permanently banned from r/Psychiatry
expand all collapse all

[–]subreddit message via /r/Psychiatry[M] sent an hour ago
Hello, You have been permanently banned from participating in r/Psychiatry because your post violates this community's rules. You won't be able to post or comment, but you can still view and subscribe to it.

If you have a question regarding your ban, you can contact the moderator team by replying to this message.

Reminder from the Reddit Admin team: If you use another account to circumvent this community ban, that will be considered a violation of the Reddit Rules and may result in your account being banned from the platform as a whole.

permalink delete report block subreddit mark unread reply

[–]to /r/Psychiatry sent 30 minutes ago

￼

Psychiatry-ModTeam

MOD•2h ago•Stickied comment

No anti-psychiatry posting - As an expansion of rule #2, no posts that are anti-psychiatry. No discussion of how psychiatry has harmed you or anyone else without published, peer-reviewed supporting evidence.

Among other reasons to avoid unsubstantiated posting, this subreddit also easily has loud posters drown out professional discussion, which has a chilling effect on what we are trying to build into the community here.

Upvote Vote Downvote Reply reply Share

my reply:

This is not a personal patient experience but a problem central to psychiatry and even medicine in general, which has become a closed field that is not open to criticism and is thus essentially no different from pseudoscience.

This presents a proof of concept, or a thought experiment that sheds light into the mechanism of how in such closed fields "Hippocratic Oath" is violated and the doctors harm the same patients they are supposed to treat.

This is supported by peer reviewed data and actual patient testimony And explains why -- the subjective experiences of Doctors, who in their ignorance believe that they are helping the patient vs the subjective experience of the patient who feels betrayed by the breach of trust and is harmed in the process which was supposed to be theurapeutic -- do not converge but contradict instead, essentialy shaking the very foundations of psychiatry and even some parts of medicine in general.

It is easy to dismiss genuine criticisms and being so absorbed in the confines of their own field that people who publish such proof of concepts are outright banned from the field, thereby verifying my claim that psychiatry is a closed, opaque system and thus not any different from psuedoscience.

Solving this challenge is central to either reforms or outright abolition.

The first doctor (google review attached) violated the Hippocratic Oath,

 and is rated 1 star by the patient

1) https://goo.gl/maps/WKbGTUXwxv5cynJJ8?g_st=ac

The second doctor, although harmed the patient more, but did not violate the Hipocratic Oath, and is thus rated 5 stars in the review, as from the subjective patient experience, as the doctor maintained honesty and integrity in his actions as a Doctor.

2) https://goo.gl/maps/L43A6WRWukj2dpvL6?g_st=ac

permalink reply
[–]from Madhur328 via /r/Psychiatry sent 9 minutes ago
The below dilemma faced by the doctor who has toiled hard in his field explains how he would rather err on the side of violating the Hippocratic oath rather than come clean to the patient and clearly explain his own limitations as a human being that is prone to error, and the current limitations of psyciatry as an evolving field. Understanding this dilemma is central to resolutions that can be reached between such patients and doctors.

---------- start

If you go to a doctor for something, you will always get a dignosis, regardless of the fact that doctor understood "what is wrong". He will never say "Sorry I do not understand what is causing this, but let me study this for a while, research your problems by referring relevant literature and run some diagnostic tests while keeping you in loop to validate/invalidate my hypothesis about your illness." He will give a prescription for an illness whose symptoms roughly match the patient's subjective experiences of illness that he/she describes without having a deep understanding of the real life medical knowledge of the supposed complicated illness, which is not at all strange since solving a real life problem is much harder than the applications of simplified models that any fields of established sciences assume, especially since the field is not currently mature enough.

If the Doctor says "I don't know man, this thing doesn't make sense to me right now because I as a human being am error prone, and cannot recall everything at every random moment; but I don't want to toy around with your life by giving around a false diagnosis, as the medicines that I prescribe are not harmless substances, as they have a working mechanism of action and are meant to be taken only if you have the matching illnessess", the patients would really appreciate that, but just as the doctor starts contemplating this in order to say that, 
just as he starts thinking in his head: "I don't know.....", he feels that all his learnings have been invalidated; as a doctor he is supposed to know illnesses. So he would, for obvious reasons, rather err on the side of harming the patient rather than taking up time to run diagnostic tests or reading relevant research papers to finally turn up, as a hypothetical possibility, an ignorant fool who could not solve the problem as it was too complicated; this being closer to an actual research where success of outcomes is not guaranteed, for he fears that the patient may even ask for his money back: "Why the heck did I even pay you, you know jackshit! your efforts didn't solve my ailment!"

-------------- end

It is not a problem of doctors, but rather the expectation within the system that the doctor has to don the mask of an expert, who knows his field, while the field not being mature enough to support that presumption.

The research paper, Alfaradhi et al., 2020 (Frontiers in Endocrinology)—human beta cells treated with D2 antagonists (e.g., haloperidol) had 20% less insulin secretion, glucose rose 15-20 mg/dL. For example supposedly looks to be claiming that antipsychotic usage is directly linked with the patient developing diabetes.

As a patient testimony example, of an actual violation of Hypocratic Oath, the Doctor talked behind the patient's back to his father that the patient has a high risk of developing diabetes, but never explained to either the patient or his father that the prescibed antipsychotics, aka "dopamine antogonists" could cause it.

Blocking dopamine causes insulin resistance and higher glucose (diabetes), The patient has since shed 20 kg weight after quitting the antipsychotics, within three and half months, and is no longer in the risk zone at the time of writing this post. But the Doctors take zero accountability for their actions, essentially having no skin in the game.

The second doctor who was rated 5 stars in satisfaction rating never claimed that the medications would last a lifetime and that there is no hope of complete recovery. The Hippocratic oath was not violated, the doctor mantained transparency, honesty and integrity in his duties and this translated into a successful patient experience irrespectice of treatment outcome.