SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Confessions of an AAP supporter [P] [Short Rant]
DATE: 2017-03-28
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/61yh60/confessions_of_an_aap_supporter_p_short_rant/

--- POST TEXT ---

Well the title is just a way to catch your attention but it does hold some truth to it - I am indeed an AAP supporter. But without going into the usual banal discussion about the politics and such I'd like to make some practical proposals in support of AAP.

Ever wonder why governments come and go, but quite painfully everything remains the same...? After the massive cry for change in 2011 after the string of flabbergasting Congress scams and scandals, we were over the edge and gave a befitting reply to the arrogant bums. But sadly this is the only part of the story that went as planned - even after 3 years of government change there have been only negligible repercussions for the perpetrators of the biggest scams in the history of the world. Now we have a new government which is busy consolidating power and working more or less the same as the previous one - with arguably one difference - no major scams(on a side note, it's painful to see how a scam should be atleast in lacs of crores to shake us out of apathy.) We also got a host of side effects which we did expect like shitty Hindutva agenda, RSS supremacy, Cow Sevaks etc

Anyways, as promised I will offer an explanation which I feel is the cause of our predicament. We have been so engrossed in our new found freedom that we do not appreciate how democracy works. Maybe in our kindness we are quick to overlook that in this man eat man world people just don't throw away money to political parties expecting nothing. So when the Congress and BJP take unnamed donations from corporates, and recently even from abroad, they cannot be trusted to work for people. Arguably, *the AAP is the only party in the world that is crowd ~~sourced~~ funded* - they are accountable to their donors and no one else. That such a party could only take root in India and prosper is a testament to the greatness of our country and its inhabitants - we are indeed unique.

This is the example I like to give to my friends when they seek advice - If you want different results, you should do things different than usual. For ex. if you want to outperform in your exams etc, you'd have to give up your usual study patterns and work earnestly towards the desired goal. Same is the case with political parties I guess.

On a closing note, I'd like to say that what we have is very precious indeed and we should be making an effort to save it. Not to say blindly support them or something, but just realize their true importance - not being ruled by crony corporates could be real good.