SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: scams on reddit II how to make Money on poverty
DATE: 2017-10-08
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/750uqq/scams_on_reddit_ii_how_to_make_money_on_poverty/

--- POST TEXT ---

First of thanks for all the upvotes for the previous post. 
Todays scam is about making Money on poverty . Almost daily i get 4 to 5 post from theglobalfundraise.com . they always end in the moderation que . simply because the poster will delete the account about 3 seconds after posting the post , and will make a new post the next day , nothing special but today i felt i would share how they Work. 
 so the latest post is about helping children : 
Help Donate to Children Walking Tall – Dedicated to Help Poor Children. 

 I will now describe the Things i do 
first click on link and have a look , if it feels wrong start with a check . 
First check read text they Refer to being a charity in the Uk and in India . Google name of charity in UK , found the webside of the UK charity , look up the charity registration number , 1106528. the following data pops up : 
26 November 2012 Removed - CEASED TO EXIST 
01 November 2004 Registered 
next step download a Picture of the webside and do a reverse image search on Google , Google finds a lot of them and suggest that the name of the Picture is Donation, the Photo belongs to CINI ( child in need institute ) make a note to send a email to them as godaddy the internet registration place will as always wash it hands , you can only complain to them if you start a legal case against the one that breaks copy right , and for that you will need a name , and no suprise godaddy will not provide that , but if enough people send emails it may just help . 

now to make sure i do not jump to conclusions i will write another email to one of the other campaigns they have on the webside as i believe one has to be carefull in pointing fingers , so i picked the next campaign that came up for children in the congo . did try to send a email to the emailadresse registered on a UK webside , but the email came back as a non delivery email. 
I used a few other tools and tricks that i wish not to disclose simply because i do not want to teach scammers how to become better . I did found the name of the person behind it ( no names can be posted here ) and i am looking in to other websides that are connected with that person .