SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Mom fell for some wire transfer/zelle scam
DATE: 2022-12-06
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/ze44re/mom_fell_for_some_wire_transferzelle_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mom is elderly/disabled and starting to lose it a bit mentally. She had someone call and somehow ended up sending them everything in her checking account. $500 via Zelle and the rest via Wire Transfer. 

As soon as I found out, I told her it was a scam, we called her bank (Chase Bank) to report it, but it didn't seem like they could do anything to recover the money since it was a Wire Transfer. 

I changed all her passwords, went to security settings and booted any active devices (including my mom), but then a few days later, after she had received her Social Security direct deposit, they somehow Wire transferred that to themselves as well. 

In total she's down $4500. 

She hasn't been able to explain to me how they did it. It seems like they may have sent her something via text message that she clicked. Her actual iphone might be compromised. This morning the password I had set had been changed and the only way I think someone would have been able to do that is by going to Chase, clicking to reset password, and then putting in the code it sends via text message. 

FWIW, both the Zelle payment and the wire transfer show the full name of someone named Karen in Orlando. Wire transfer going to USAA bank. I googled the name and it's some 65 year old woman that does seem to actually exist, but I obviously assume that person isn't actually involved. Maybe had her identity stolen and is being used by the scammers? The person my mom talked to she says was a man with an Indian accent. 

Not sure if anything can be done at this point to recover the money lost. 

I'm also not sure exactly what I should do to try and prevent this happening again. She gets that social security check monthly, so I'm gonna guess they'll just keep draining her account every month if I don't do anything. This isn't the first scam she's fallen for. It's clear she shouldn't have direct access to her money any more and she seems to understand that as well. I'm thinking of having her close her Chase account entirely, opening a new checking account with a different bank for her social security deposits and making sure she never has direct online access to it. Then, I suppose she could make her purchases with a credit card that has strict limits so I can monitor her activity. 

Any thoughts would be appreciated.