SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: M20 Was caught drunk driving (first offense) in Kolkata. The advocates took 8500/- total from me and the official fine is only 2250/-. Can I sue the lawyer and if so how?
DATE: 2024-04-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1cgv1r3/m20_was_caught_drunk_driving_first_offense_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was driving a friends car late at night and had a few drinks a couple hours ago. I was stopped at a traffic light (I was driving within speed limits and obeying traffic signals). They took a breathalyzer test which I failed following which they took me inside the station and took my phone away and kept me there. Then a couple of 'advocates' came who were telling me "You have to pay 5k right now, to get bail and then you'll get your car tomorrow after showing up infront of the magistrate. No more problems." I gave them the 5k and was released a couple hours later.

 I went to the magistrate around noon but the clerk told me to just pay 3500/- and everything will be soughted, I did and was told I don't even have to see the magistrate and he will handle everything. I was a little sceptical by now but went along with it.

Then a couple hours later, the lawyer called me again and told me I had to pay another 1500/- since I had a couple more cases on me put by the police station which were regarding overspeeding and breaking traffic signals (184,177,185) neither of which I did so I was confused and asked the same but he said it's just what the police did and he can't do anything about it. 

I asked him for some time and called my friend whos father is a lawyer. My friend told me to check online if there was any pending cases against the car and to pay them online and get your car back. I checked but found out there were no cases against the car but the police seized the car anyways.

Finally, I went to the police station where I explained my situation and one police officer called the advocate and told me to just go collect the papers and no more fee will be required.

I finally went and got the papers and also RECORDED THE 2 ADVOCATES ADMITTING TO TAKING THE MONEY 5000 AND 3500. I also had their boss on the phone a couple hours later admitting to taking the money and explaining to me how much they have to bribe people etc. I have that on recording as well.

On the papers, officially it said I had a fine of 2250/- and also had offenses which I didn't commit like overspeeding and breaking traffic signals.

So what can I do now? Can I sue the lawyer somehow to get my money back? Can I claim fraud since there were no actual cases against the car but it was seized and had a couple cases on me that I didn't commit?