SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: 1 CRORE FRAUD
DATE: 2024-09-18
SCORE: 521
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fjmqb0/1_crore_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

My grandfather(70M) lost 1 crore in online trading scam. I dont even know how to even say this🤡 my grandfather used to talk to random girls online. Now in our family none of us had any idea/clue about this dual personality of his, all i know is through the chats i saw on his phone, he doesn't know we know about it yet. In july he met this girl online who told him how she made a fortune by trading in forex markets. She somehow convinced him to invest and that she'll become his mentor and make him rich. My grandfather lost about 12 lakhs to a scam call in 2022 and has been guilty ever since so he thought he'll recover that money. She sent her a site which i know is totally fake and He intially deposited 40K inr and traded with it, the money was deposited in random accounts in which a fake customer care of that site asked him to deposit, they asked for investments in different accounts everytime. Within the next 15 days he invested almost 3.5 Lakhs. She used to flirt with him and convinced him of doing all this🤡. He withdrew $51(4080 inr) and thought that all the investments he made were legit and kept on investing more. In the next one month he invested another 10.5L(total 14L so far).

Now in late august, according to the site, he had made approx $119000(roughly 1cr). When he tried to withdraw his money, the customer care said that to withdraw he needs to pay a tax of roughly 24 Lakhs. He asked them to deduct it from his profit but they said they can't deduct from a customers account and he needs to deposit that money. He went to the bank and sent the payment via RTGS. After this when he tried to withdraw, they asked for a foreign exchange fees and asked for another 8 lakhs. He with his closed mind (idk man what was going on in his head, im just ashamed of him atp) made that tranfer. This time after trying for withdrawal, they asked him for some other bs taxes worth 29 LAKHS. Now all the money he had was used and his bank was empty. Now you'll think a person in his right mind would stop, BUT NO. He broke some FD and withdrew 29 Lakhs. This is when my father got to know that an fd had been broken. He asked him what are you gonna do with that much amount and what happened to all the money you had. He just made some excuse which idk about(will probably post it in an edit), he asked him to stop and NOT INVEST WITHOUT CONSULTING HIM STRICTLY, he agreed to it with him but then made the deposit later that day🤡🤡(papa was out of town). I on a random went through his phone after this and got to know about all this blunder he had done, all the transactions were made to random accounts and the site he using was based on nginx and was basically a scam. After this when he tried to withdraw, they asked for another 14Lakhs taxes. The girl who used to guide him is saying ki just pay 5.6 lakhs and she'll pay the remaining. She is still active and in touch with him. I told about all this to my parents and they have STRICTLY WARNED him to not make any transaction. Roughy 75 Lakhs have been lost so far and we can't even go to the police because all the online chats he has with girls🤡🤡, its just so shameful we cant even tell anyone. All out life savings are gone just like that. All of us are just blank atp and ashamed of this foolery. I am unable to sleep and so are my parents, grandmother does not know about all this.

I know its all his fault and we've accepted that none of it will come back but still if someone can help, it'll do us a HUGE favour. We have nothing left now, all our savings and emergency funds are gone and we have nothing left🤡🤡. Will add more details in edit when i remember

EDIT 1 --&gt; He cleared all his chats with the girls after my father confronted him, only proofs that are available are the messages with the customer care(online scammer) of that so called website and the accounts given by him to make the transactions

EDIT 2 --&gt; I think im just helpless atp, can't file complaint cz parents said GF would have to confess which he wont. 2022 m 1-2 ghante baad hi complaint krdi thi ek penny wapas nahi ayi, ab toh 10 din hogye kya hi hoga. I dont think anything can be done now, they aren't allowing me to file a complaint. ig i should just accept it now and move on. Thank you for the help

EDIT 3 --&gt; I've mailed a bunch of youtubers who expose call centers/scammers online. This was all i could do in my power(im 17m after all). I know everyone has asked me to file a complaint but try to understand im helpless Its not about embarassment, more about the fact that my grandfather just wont admit and we are worried if he takes some serious step then we all will be blamed+ nothing happened last time(oct 2022) thats why parents believe police is worthless, we even wrote a letter to the pm last time, all in vain. There is a reason for their mind set