SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Punishment for abetment to attempted suicide?
DATE: 2024-02-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1aqi7p3/punishment_for_abetment_to_attempted_suicide/

--- POST TEXT ---

A girl was in relationship with my friend but she was using him for sex in the name of love. He was subjected to mental cruelty, forced sexual practices(forcoing for 3some, 4some), posting her nudes publicly to humiliate her BF, sadistic manipulation activities, urging to kill himself every single day in the relationship, he was threatened to suicide &amp; was sent hand cutting pics to threaten him to stay in the relationship when he decided to leave everytime. His love was very true despite all this. This girl is also a part of Satanic cult that does sacrifices(allegedly but has connections with them). Finally she decided to leave him so she cheated him for a rich guy then ghosted him permanently.

He was baffled by such act so he went to get answers, closure &amp; very importantly accountability. He was humiliated by her friends &amp; herself to force him to kill himself so that he wont make problems in future. He lost his life(poor family, innocence) so went on to do drugs to cope up from such a big trauma.

Final time she met her &amp; asked a closure but this time she manipulated in believing that he was the one who ruined her life(she was having an amazing life by milking that rich guy) &amp; he must die due to guilt. Due to this Guilt tripping he went on to kill himself in the hotel room by hanging, Deep cuts in his wrist. He informed his decision to her in whatsapp with Goodbyes. She called her current BF &amp; threatened to kill herself if he doesn't rush to the spot to delete the evidence of her involvement in the Guy's phone because she knew that Police can probe into his phone &amp; arrest her. Luckily her new BF rushed to the spot &amp; took him to hospital in a critical condition then he was saved at the last minute(he was to die from blood loss if her current BF was couple of minutes late) Her new BF got scared &amp; formatted the entire phone. Her new BF &amp; the victim lied that the attempt happened due to family problems.

Fast forward the Guy wants justice because he's mentally disabled due to PTSD &amp; has deep cut marks all over his hand. She also did the same to the next BF &amp; he's currently bankrupt, also suffers severe disabling trauma. Girl robbing from everyone has changed 2 boyfriends since then, now is with a new guy &amp; doing same. She's doing this in a pattern to extort money from emotionally vulnerable people. She uses his current BF to shield her when victims approach for accountability.

The guy also made posts on Instagram in an attempt to expose her games to her friends but the blunder he did is post semi nudes(doesnt reveal private parts &amp; she posted those publicly herself before) for which she made a complaint in cybercrime police station. He is yet to appear for enquiry but the case isn't registered yet &amp; its in complaint stage only.

In my research Abetment to suicide(IPC 305, 306) are the strong sections she can be potentially tried under in this Female centric justice system along other sections like criminal intimidation &amp; extortion. Since he was saved in the last minute would abetment to suicide(306) &amp; abetment to suicide still apply? Would these two sections be still applicable based on the grounds of aggravation &amp; damages that the boy sustains for life?

How can this be proceeded? The boy doesnt have finances to hire a lawyer so until he makes a money to do the same what should the guy do in handling this case but also seek justice for him &amp; also make her face the retributions for her actions?

Thank you