SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: A sad double story of twitter scams
DATE: 2022-02-28
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/t3i2dg/a_sad_double_story_of_twitter_scams/

--- POST TEXT ---

Good morning to the entire community, my story begins several months ago when I decided to start investing in cryptocurrency. After having saved for 3 years I managed to collect 4k, it cost me a lot of effort since in my country the pay is bad and there is no work, I decided to take a risk and invest that in low denomination coins in binance, everything was going well according to me, an asset for the future.

Three months after my investment my brother decided to invest 3k more, but unfortunately a month later someone entered my binance account using an Api Key, and managed to withdraw all the funds remotely, that happened just one day after I naively posted my binance address on twitter to earn shiba inu, I think a mafia is behind it. That day I almost had an attack and lost my sanity, something similar had never happened to me.

I felt devastated for two months, I failed my family and myself.

It took me a long time to recover, but you have to keep going, I said, now many here will say that I must be an idiot and I should retire, but that pain of trying to recover what was lost blinded me and checking my twitter I found a comment, I know "twitter" again, i never used twitter until i started using crypto and to be aware of the market since musk manipulated the market through this network, and i think part of my naivety in that social network led me to this.

This person, whom I will call Xin, commented on one of my many tweets that I made to participate for coins, it was really a very subtle comment. We continued the conversation for several days, he seemed like someone very reserved, he told me he was a woman but it could well be a 45-year-old guy in India or Mexico, he had a very subtle way of saying things, in a kind and unhurried way. little by little we were talking and I told her how I was robbed in binance 7k, she talked to me about many things like God, and how he can heal us, very deep things, she also talked about going to an orphanage on weekends to help children with cancer and donated part of his income, now I realize that people really can be cruel, sinister, evil. Then he started talking to me about coinbase mining of usdt and ether, it seemed something impressive, he earned 1% from 0 to 9999, from 10k 1-3%, for me it was something incredible.

So I made a transfer of 700 dollars that I had left to do the test, she was earning every 6 hours, she didn't pressure me to put more, we just talked about other things. She told me a long story about how her father died and how she fell into the arms of her teacher, damn it's a damn soap opera how could I be so blind.

He told me that he earned 1 to 2 eth a day, in my country the basic salary is 425 $, compared to that it is incredible, I obviously did not intend to earn that, but it seemed normal to me since he told me that he was in North America and there They earn much more than in my small country.

That must have been the third or fourth red alarm, but I was blind, we had been talking for about a month, she told me that she was single, 29 years old, without children, while I went out to play sports she told me that she was meditating, she liked to cook, heterosexual and from a conservative family, a damn gem, a sane woman for me.

Why should a man pay so dearly, because of his instinct towards a supposed woman? Unfair.

I asked my father to borrow 5k more, and I told him about this possibility of winning, in a week we were able to get it out of the bank and buy currency, everything was going excellent during the first 9 or 10 days, when suddenly an offer of a supposed profit appeared of 0.5 eth from a smart contract, I naively accepted it and received it in usdt after two days, after receiving it I wanted to send 30 usdt to another of my accounts but all the money was sent to another unknown account, so the 7566usdt was They went and a supposed "contract" appeared that said I had to have 30k in my account to be able to claim my investment and the 1.5 eth reward. I quickly wrote to this person and he told me he helped me contact the technical service inside the coinbase wallet, surely they work as a team.

This person from the technical service kept telling me not to worry, that it is a good thing that in 15 days I would receive my money, I had two options: wait 15 days for the return of my money or deposit 23k more to complete 30k of the supposed air drop.

That's when you feel like sleeping forever.

Xin spoke to him about this and with more sinismo he told me to think of something, I told him that how was I going to get 30k, selling a kidney?, he told me that I should see the form. All that incredible thing that we talked about for more than a month went down the drain.

Every night he told me to sleep well, 8 out of 10 mornings he told me good morning, he put hearts to my messages and told me what he felt.

One month and a half was enough for a psychopath to enter my mind and steal money from me, now I owe 3k to my brother, 5k to my father, my savings of 4k, and the hope of a better future lost.

At this point I do not think I can get my money back, I will never be able to get 23k and I will not put them at risk again in this mining, my ignorance on the subject limits me, a knowledgeable reader of the subject will have realized if it is a scam or not, since the 15 days of the contract have passed and now the technical support tells me that if I do not complete the 30k in 30 days my money would be liquidated as a reward and I would lose 5% for 20 days until I lost everything, just like a slow and painful psychological attack .

I thank the people who have come this far, please do not judge me, I hope this never happens to them, I invested because I was looking to help my active family member in this uncertain future, and maybe a third-class motorcycle from 10 years ago hand to go out in my small town in Ecuador if I earned enough, but ended up screwing us more. God give me the strength to tell my family the truth and not lose my sanity. Nice community, thank you.

Hash transaction:

0xd8187f3c0b8aa2f92fe4b97a7c4b2f36d69ed59dc65d796588132c9ac8f04ffb

Twitter acount: Chen Kexin (is a assian woman)
CORRUPT link used in coinbase: usdt-ether.bet