SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Update- Criminal case proceedings 
DATE: 2024-06-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dghkxa/update_criminal_case_proceedings/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, So in my case on husband who is a student in Montreal canada I have filed FIR under 328, 3,4,498A and another case under 125.
He didn't appear for 2 case hearings for 125.
We sent 2 notices one to his family one through Embassy and we are sending one again through Embassy with proper Performa.
Right now I mailed the relevant court documents to Nricell punjab and PM Justin Trudeau office saying that they have forwarded my case to public safety minister. 
Nri cell punjab aske dme for my husband's and relevant court documents. 
Irony his fatger called my long distance relative saying we can give compensation to her parents in order for me and my parents to drop the case.
My family us with me we told them that we don't want any compensation and they are 1 year late.
Now everything that will happen will happen through court.
To be honest money will not buy my future and life back.
I wanted dto ask if I don't accept compensation will he actually get jail as the case if I win states it gives 3 years jail to husband. 
Because nothing will let me sleep well than to respect myself not take compensation and get the Justice I deserved .Also If that degenerate fraud of a husband didn't realized after 4 years of marriage that this girl married me when she was working in an mnc and I was a fraud, stood by me help me achieve success and get on right path .Why would she bend down to money now?
He and his family are fools to ever think I will be bought by money.
My only goal through this case is for him to get legal accountability and repercussions of his actions.
And to sleep better knowing I fought for myself.
Best part I don't love him anymore.I love myself more .And I am happy sometimes I cry but Overally happy I saw his real face otherwise I would have had 2 kids and he would have left me in such a situation where I would have had no option than to die.
I am happy, health and I will fight for myself .
I am stronger. 
Also about the case IO called my husband saying he will have to come to India to receive 41 A notice otherwise he will be declared an absconding criminal. 
So he us threatening indirectly my family that he will file cases in Delhi ( Divorce) which I actually don't mind as I have 1000's of proof of his showing his cruelty.
What do you think why his father us suddenly calling for compensation?