SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: IDFC bank debit card fraud, and the bank is not at all helpful 😔. Need advice
DATE: 2023-05-08
SCORE: 14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/13bxh9r/idfc_bank_debit_card_fraud_and_the_bank_is_not_at/

--- POST TEXT ---

My friend has an IDFC bank account in which has a balance of 4l. She travelled to Kerala a few months ago and returned to Bangalore after a few weeks. She used her IDFC debit card only at a hospital in Varkala. A couple of months after returning, while looking at her bank statement, she noticed a transaction of 50k in her account done on the same day of her return. The statement was showing a POS transaction, but neither an OTP was sent nor did she receive the debit alert on her phone. She immediately contacted the bank and they froze the account and asked her to raise a complaint and an eFIR, and told her that they will investigate the case and inform her with in 90 days.

After 2.5 months they contacted her today and said that the transaction is done in kerala and they didn't find anything suspicious 😳. They explained their logic as if it's a fraud then why would they stop after withdrawal of 50k when there is more money in the account 🤦. They also mentioned they can see that OTP was entered for the transaction. After a long discussion, the person mentioned that they found that the account to which the transaction was made is a HDFC account and they sent an email to HDFC bank to revert the transaction if that account still has the balance. They said HDFC didn't reply yet and if they don't reply in 5 days, they'll close the investigation and cannot return the money. 

My friend is now worried and is not sure what can be done. She has train tickets to show that she is not in kerala at the time of transaction, also she didn't get any OTP or debit alerts for the amount deducted. What are her options if the bank denies the fraud? Would be great help to know if anyone has experienced anything similar, and came out successfully