SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: New to me LifeLock scam
DATE: 2025-01-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1i62c93/new_to_me_lifelock_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

My wife received an email about her recently purchased LifeLock. Well, we know it's not real because she has not purchased anything from Norton. I'm the one who does that type of purchase. 

The scam has an invoice picture in it and was sent both from and to randomly generated, probably single use, gmail addresses. I have added what I found wrong with the "invoice", below. 

A. Invoice? For who? Norton wants you to know who your buying stuff from.
B. Too much open space here, bad formatting.
C. Multi-million dollar company will put your name here.
D. Wording here is off.
E. More grammar errors.
F. Nortons "Customer Help Center" is actually called "Customer Support."
G. This number has been labeled as a scam call center forwarding number. It is also incorrectly formatted.
H. "Id" is usually capitalized. 
I. First, the comma is incorrect. Secondly, the Cust ID # is not something Norton shares to customers as your account is referenced by your email. The Billed to should have only the customers information and would have nothing to do with the invoice information.
J. That is not what it is called. It is called "Norton 360 with 'LifeLock Select' or 'LifeLock Ultimate Plus' "
K. What no tax? Nothing they sell would get this even amount. (obviously dependent on your state)
L. None of the numbers listed on this page are correct for Norton products or order numbers or invoices. That is not the right format.
M. This block of information is not centered or has the same sized fonts.
N. What is with the piecemealed text here?
O. More grammatical errors. Oh yeah, ePayment specialists...Norton has a whole department dedicated to ePayments???
P. This number has been labeled as a scam call center forwarding number.
Q. It is also incorrectly formatted.
R. "Remitance" is spelled incorrectly; it is also not a common word in the US. Still used and is proper, but is just not that common.
S. ". ...answer payment and remitance delivery questions... Um...wut? What does this even mean?
T. What customer help center/help desk/customer care/customer support has the hours of 0730-1200.
U. Eastern, Central, Mountain...Standard Time??? Better yet, how about India Standard Time (Mumbi).
V. Once again, which is it??? Customer Care now huh???
W. The wording here is totally off, why the colon and why the caps? Just sloppy grammar.
X. Dude…WTH? "Digitally Yours?" Norton is a Multi-Million Dollar company!
Y. Here we go!!! Now it’s "Customer Support".
Z. Back to this incorrectly formatted number again!!! Also, why the +1? Norton is an American company and this BS invoice is being sent to an American (presumably), in America. If it were being sent to an individual in the UK, it would NOT have them call a US based customer support. It would be a UK based number. It may forward that call to a call-center in the US, but the number would not need to be international. In the end, these are just the errors I found in this scam email.

I hope this finds everyone more aware of a maybe new scam. Good luck all and stay aware.