SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: GoFirst airlines: How to get mental torture in exchange for dirt cheap air tickets
DATE: 2022-04-18
SCORE: 162
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/u65dqg/gofirst_airlines_how_to_get_mental_torture_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Our brush with these thugs began last month when we booked GoFirst air tickets to an international destination. We had booked the tickets 15 days before our journey.

Just one day before the trip, GoFirst cancelled the flight, and suggested us alternate flights (which were 10-15hour long, and would arrive 2 days later which would disrupt our hotels, trips on day 1). So we chose to cancel our GoFirst ticket and bought other airline tickets (which were at sky high prices on 1 day before the trip).

Few days later, I arrived back to India on a GoFirst ticket. I'm not even kidding, at the airport where I landed, four flight loads of GoFirst passengers were running across luggage belts for over 2 hours, because the bags just wont come! While Indigo, Spice etc passengers' bags were coming very quickly. There was also a sizeable number of people who were screaming at the GoFirst luggage handlers, because their bags were lost.

It's been over 15 days now since we cancelled our tickets from India. We were promised a full refund, but not a single rupee has been credited back to our banks. Even the nodal officer 'Nehha Bora' is not responding.

Is there any legal recourse we can pursue to get our money back, and probably teach them a lesson so that they dont do such scams?

Edit: Apparently the broker 'Easemytrip' is also complicit with these thugs. The airline promised us 100% refund because they cancelled the flight, but Easemytrip is adamant on charging us 900Rs of convenience charges. Imagine a broker that charges convenience fees for a purchase that didnt happen at all. 

So much for all those irritating YouTube ads featuring some bald actor claiming that it's an Indian corporation and other bullshit. That same guy is seen in those ads claiming 'zero convenience charges'.