SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: My Ex, love of my life, filed false sexual harassment charges. I came out clean. What action can I take when nobody seems to care?

DATE: 2024-05-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1cku3qf/my_ex_love_of_my_life_filed_false_sexual/

--- POST TEXT ---

People of Bangalore, brace yourselves for millennial drama! TL;DR in the end

Hello everyone! 4 years ago, my then live-in partner, filed a false sexual harassment case on me which made me run pillar to post in courts for all these years, only to see her not show up to the court at all. Finally, after four proclamations and an NBW, she shows up only to turn hostile in the box and deny her complaint. My spirit crushed right there. Here's how the story goes;

I am a native Bangalorean. The two of us fell in love when I was 21 and she was 19. Our relationship went on for two years before our parents found out. By then I had already materialised my brain-child of a start-up. So when confronted, my parents threatened to throw me out of the house if I chose her over them. Me being the righteous kind, said it wasn't fair on her, and obliged. At a very young age, I learnt how it feels to be dejected by your own. To make matters worse, they even had a tiff with the girl's side over the same. Succumbing to parental pressure, even the girl left her home (I wasn't notified, her eloping came out of the blue to me)

Because I already had a business up and running, I accepted her decision but we chose to live separately. She assisted me with client communication while I closed the deals and worked on projects. A year down the line, we moved into a flat, started living-in together. That's when the problems arose. She often kept stirring up inconducive conversations about how my parents had behaved with hers and how they were disturbed and all. I kept telling her that what was important was that I was with her, away from my parents. But it gradually became a huge concern and things only went downhill then on. While I had no qualms with her going to meet her people, she made sure that I didn't reconcile with mine. She would often resort to self-sabotaging, slicing up her arm and whatnot whenever we had an argument. While I spoke as a team, she always considered me as an opponent in an argument.

One unfortunate day, I came back home only to see her pull off a gone girl. Poof! She was gone. What more, she had eloped with every single document that ever mattered to my existence. Starting from my bank cards to company documents to personal documents to vehicle documents to even the house key! 

Not only had I lost the one person who I fought the world for, I also had nothing to go on with. Four days later I learnt from her friend that she had been suggesting my girl to leave me for over a year, because she thought I wasn't the right match! Not only did she not return my stuff but also tried to get an equal share from my bank account because we were living-in. 

I was depressed, shut myself in, didn't even let my parents know, when all the while she had comfortably returned to her home. Seeing my condition deteriorate, my friends themselves informed my parents and they were once again back in my life.

After failed pleas for a decent parting for over a month, I had to file a complaint in my local police station about my missing items. The cop was very kind to help me out with such a trivial matter. He fetched her location and sent me to retrieve my stuff only for me to realise that she had returned to her parents' native. I alone had to riskingly enter a village where I knew everybody would be hostile. It's a miracle I even made it out safe. The woman didn't budge. She kept saying everything was rightfully hers. Had to return empty handed because dare I not confront a 'woman' amongst her own people. 

Two days later, the cop stepped his foot down and asked her to come down to the station along with her family. Once there, instead of responding to my complaint, she creates a hue and cry about how she's an equal shareholder and deserved to get half of my bank balance because we were in a live-in relationship. I held my ground but a few cop subordinates coerced me saying that I better give away the money otherwise she could very well press rape charges against me. I had no words. I was coerced into writing a cheque, only for me to realise that she along with her friend had forged up false documents to make the claim. 

Me being the righteous kind, said it wasn't done, and blocked the cheque (mind you, I blocked the cheque while maintaining sufficient balance). 

A month later, she slammed me with a cheque bounce case, alleging that cheque bounced due to insufficient funds. I couldn't care less. 

I appeared before the court and pleaded not guilty, said I'd fight it out. 

Her family and herself couldn't stand it at all. Parallely, they had to account for a random guy showing up at their native and also about her disappearance for two years. Us being from the same locality, they went around saying how I had married her and cheated on her, treated her the worst bla bla bla, and that they were gonna send me to prison. 

Which they did, a month later. But never did they reveal to people on what charges and what case.

Here's how the FIR went: 

That she and I had met four years ago in some annual meet and that I had been persistently behind her since then, stalking her and forcing her to 'love me, love me'. And one fine day, I lost my shit, followed her, pulled her dupatta, outraged her modesty (a foolish attempt at bringing in IPC 354, 354A charges) and threatened her to love me or else I'd kill her entire family (IPC 506 😂Ik). 

The joke of it all? I wasn't even in Bangalore on the said day!!! 

Here's a woman who in the beginning of the relationship had absolutely no hesitation to lie to me for sympathy points about how she was sexually abused and molested as a child!!! (women of reddit, please chime in as to whether anything can justify this!! I was too blind in love to overlook this, and had instead chosen to let go), and now she was lying through her teeth that I myself had tried to harass her sexually.

Because she was a woman and brought in some influence, the police not only registered the complaint but also filed the FIR without any investigation. I was arrested in the night, wasn't told why, was kept in the cell overnight, was taken to the court next day. Despite it being a non-bailable offence (14-day remand a mandate), the judge saw through the truth of the matter instantly but A.P had gone home by then, it was 5pm. Unfortunately, I had to go to prison for one night (don't ask me how I came out sane. After what I saw inside, I doubt very few men can), was bailed out the next day. To my dismay, the police filed chargesheet with the only evidence in it being her statement along with her family's.

Cut to four years later, after countless sessions with my lawyers and in court, my fighting spirit had worn off. But since truths were by my side, although delayed, justice arrived. In both cases. 

I had come out clean from both the false charges (the cheque bounce and the sexual harrasment). The orders in the first stated she had miserably failed to make her case and that she had produced questionable evidences. In the second, the orders stated that she denied me ever outraging her modesty and that the incident never happened. 

Finally, after four years (COVID to top it off, business had fallen faceflat), I walked out of the court, spirit battered and bruised, but soul at peace, at last. 

My battles are over, now is my time to salvage my life. There's absolutely no incentive for me to go back to the mess again. But me being the eccentric righteous kind, just can't get the matter out of my head. 

I cannot digest the fact that an individual can bring one's life to shambles with their malicious lies, all because they're from a particular gender/group. I'm not making this a man v/s woman issue. I'm making it a truth v/s lies issue. No lie should be able to reign supreme, no matter the difference is in gender, race, class, creed, age etc. 

I cannot stand the fact that a lie could be so loud and destructive whereas my truth when came out, came out in silence. The court acquittal orders were issued at around 3pm by a clerk in an empty court room, judge wasn't even around. Atrocities of the lies were loud, but my truth was barely a whimper.

I've always believed that human suffering should amount to a difference in ways of the world. If one has suffered, he must strive to ensure someone else doesn't face the same fate. If suffering goes unquestioned, then really, what is the point of it all? Of this society? 

With these thoughts in mind, I consulted my lawyers and I wanted to press more than civil defamation charges. I wanted to press criminal charges because it IS a criminal offence to file false FIRs, commit fraud and present false witnesses. My acquittal orders are already foolproof evidence to all these crimes. 

Yet, yet....I have zero support. Parents brushed aside my rebuttal saying that I better not get into it again since she can come up with any cock-and-bull story. I can't even begin to explain to them how irrational their fear is. I didn't relent. Said I would take action myself with or without their help. Finally, they gave in, said that they'd press charges on my behalf as my parents and that I focus on my future.

Believing them, I moved to a new city for work and resumed my life. Now, suddenly, they're singing a different tune. That they're too old to be taking all this stress, that they tell it for my own food, and that I should let it go too.

I cannot even!!!!! Now, I'm stuck in a different city, with all the trauma, and all alone! If I wanna go back and take up the matter myself, I'll jeopardize my work, and I can't trust my parents to ever stand for me. 

So here I am, desolated from my homeland, dejected by my own, and destroyed by the only person I ever chose to love the most. 

What respite do I have? What action can I take? I'm no Johnny Depp, why would the world care when my own parents didn't? How can I, being thousands of miles away, even start to take legal action over this? 

It's actually super easy and convenient for me to put it all behind, but I simply cannot. If my own well-to-do parents would rather disown me again than stand by me just because it's a woman on the other end, what hope does any average man in India have? What hope does truth have over lies?

I need help. So that with my voice, I can help to ensure no other soul succumbs to malice in this deceitful world. That one day, I can fearlessly call out my perpetrator and encourage others to do the same.

Humans of Reddit, I appeal to you. Please help! 

TL;DR - I left my parents for my love. 
 My love left me for her parents.
 Her parents abetted her in framing me with false charges. 
I came out clean.
Now my parents won't help me fight the lie. 

And I cannot let my suffering go pointless, since things REALLY need to change in this country. Old outdated laws must have no place. No woman should have unquestioned power to indict a man where he has no say. Help!