Hello team, I'm Karthik Ravulapally I've been scammed by be10x Private online education website. I've seen their ad's on Instagram and registered in a hope to learn some skills. They have send me a zoom link through wats app group so today( 4th August 2024 ) morning 11pm I've attended their AI Tools work shop. One of the key attractions for me was the commitment to providing an original Microsoft 365 license. However, it's crucial for potential attendees to be aware that the license is issued under the Be10x domain, not your personal email as initially expected. While this might be acceptable for some, it was not explicitly communicated during the workshop, causing confusion and disappointment. Moreover, the workshop advertised access to ChatGPT version 4. Despite this, the access to ChatGPT ver.4 was not as straightforward as promised. After the workshop concluded, I encountered difficulties in securing the access as initially outlined in their promotional materials. This deviation from the advertised service was frustrating and left me questioning the overall transparency of Be10x. In that session they have shown very much basic stuff which can be freely found on YouTube and internet and then started their trick of selling their group course which are 19 courses. Firstly they have quoted 170000/- rupees of whooping amount and finally offered 14199/- rupees ( including GST) course. This trick helped them to create a FOMO. I suspect their session is also recorded as the chant was not open for all and they were not answering any of my questions. As a result I've purchased their course of 14199/- rupees. I've payed the amount in 2 parts. One is 7198/- rupees and another 7001. They promised that I will receive login and password and need to login to three given link and start my online learning session, however there was no login and password provided. Once I've payed the total amount there was no response from their support team even after calling them 15 to 20 times( [protected] and [protected]). So I got suspicions and researched if this is a scam and to my surprise i got many results video's and a linked in complaint thread with multiple people reporting this as scam and numerous complaints were on these be10x. I'm very much disappointed and depressed by checking all the above details. I'm not at all interested in this course. I've messaged them on wats app and e-mail's them regarding refund and tried to call multiple times however no response. I request Indian Consumer complaint forum to please contact on my behalf and demand them my refund of 14199/- rupees. This is my hard earned money. Please process my full refund of 14199/- rupees ASAP to my Bank account and credit card account from which I've paid. Regards, Karthik Ravulapally Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)