SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammed by a phone call claiming as government official from Court, about HMRC filing a case for Tax Evasion (UK). Others be warned.
DATE: 2024-02-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1anjwtx/scammed_by_a_phone_call_claiming_as_government/

--- POST TEXT ---

I received a phone call last February 8 from a "Steve Allen" claiming he is a government official from Court. He said his Badge number is 98560IR. The reason he was calling was because HMRC has sent me 2 letters for a Tax Evasion case which has been sent back to sender. (+447476652721)

Apparently HMRC escalated the case to Court and now I have a warrant, ID 248-1965. Told me the call is recorded, and not to hang up or else they will proceed for the warrant. He asked me if I was employed or unemployed and asked how long have I been on the country. I answered his questions. I explained to him I haven't received any letters, and I haven't evaded any taxes because my employer pays through my salary. 

However I remembered getting 2 text messages about my mail being rerouted back to sender on Jan 26 and Jan 29. But they came from suspicious email numbers, so I didn't pay attention that time. Though now he mentioned about these 2 letters from HMRC I am second guessing myself and am now thinking I'm in trouble.

He was talking really fast and I was already panicking with my anxiety taking over. He explained it is not my fault and must be an employment miscalculation which happens. He said I have two options, one is to file a case against HMRC but I have to get a criminal lawyer, and if I wouldn't win I could get a fine of £29,000 or upto 5 years in prison. I was having tunnel vision and hearing this made me panic more. Second option is to settle the £1497 deficit, pay outside of Court. They will withdraw the warrant and HMRC will pay me the amount at the end of the call. 

I said I don't have enough money and only got £100 on my Barclays debitcard. He said I would have to "Declare it" along with my other accounts and transferred me to a different person (+442073656004), which transferred me to another person.

The phone number was +44 20 7947 6139. It was a different caller, Dalton Davis, he said. He was claiming if I search Court of Appeal Civil Division in Google, it would connect me to a gov.uk website. An official UK government website. He instructed me to scroll down and verify the number from "Case progression: group A". To see the number calling me was the same number and it was a government number and the call was real. Seeing it was the same number, I am now convinced that I am in trouble and the person calling me is genuinely from a government official.
 
He proceeded to ask me to Declare all my bank accounts for when HMRC reaches out to my bank for the tax evasion case. When I said, I only have £100 on my Barclays bank, he said it is not enough and asked me if I had taken any overdraft before. I said no.

He told me to download Any Desk app so he can guide me through. He said I need to pay most of the money in deficit to show HMRC and the Court that I made an effort and show out of good will that I paid. Since I didn’t know how, he was instructing me to take the £700 overdraft and through his instructions transferred the money through Wise.com to a Marie Del Carmen Jaramillo Flores. (bowieon@proton.me)

I asked if I can send the rest of the money tomorrow, he said there is a time limit of 45 minutes and I have already used my 25 minutes. If we end the call, I can face £400 additional charge everyday. However, he keeps on insisting if I pay the total today, the Court will cancel the warrant, contact HMRC and HMRC will refund the total amount straight to my bank.

Since he saw the rest of my banking apps (through Any Desk), he told me to try sending money from my other cards as well: CapitalOne, Barcalycard, TescoBank, Monzo. Since they were all credit cards it got declined. I transferred a total of £380 to a Mohammed Faisal. Sort Code: 60-84-07: Account #: 64462142. It was only the amount I could scrape through since I usually invest my extra money straight away to my stocks.
 
When my boyfriend, arrived from work, I told him the situation. The guy on the phone kept on insisting he is a government official and my bf was yelling to me to hang up. The caller called my boyfriend disrespectful and was threatening he is being recorded, and this recording is going to be used in Court. I was panicking and getting distressed. He grabbed my phoned and hanged up the phone call. At that point I was still convinced the phone call was real, so I panicked some more.

I tried to ring the number on the gov.uk website (https://www.gov.uk/courts-tribunals/court-of-appeal-civil-division) and it wouldn't connect. Convinced me more that this is a scam.

In total I transferred and lost £1080. 

My boyfriend insisted I contact the bank. I called them and they said it is most likely a scam and there are similar fraud cases. The bank froze my app and accounts. They advised my phone might get hacked as well since they used "Any Desk" app. I have reported this to the police as well. My hands were shaking.

Throughout the call, I already felt deep down this sounds absurd, but I proceeded cause I was panicking and I wanted the nightmare to be over with. The callers all sound Indian. But I thought I wouldn’t discriminate if they have English names since I was the same. They talked really fast. Was very threatening about the warrant. Wouldn’t give me the time to ask or second guess. Was saying it is not about the money but by helping me get rid of the warrant and the money would get back just after the call. Suspicion when he said he wouldn’t get any personal details over the phone about myself and my cards but proceeded to mirror my screen when I was opening my bank apps. Mentioned I shouldn’t hang up or proceed with this matter the following day, so it would not give me the chance to inquire with other people. The names of accounts I sent to didn’t mirror government accounts. 

My bf was right, I was very gullible and I know in my head there are red flags, but I was not thinking straight and ignored them. I was very upset and angry mostly of myself because I haven’t thought of questioning them on the process. I felt really stupid and disappointed at myself. There was a lot of manipulation that happened over the call and I let my anxiety take over rather than thinking rationally. I was only thinking the warrant was jeopardising the huge responsibilities on my shoulders, and I wanted the problem to be gone straight away.

I am still shaken up. I usually have some trust in humanity but now this happened to me. They target the most vulnerable ones. I reported this to the police and even informed the Court of Appeals that there are malicious people using their phone number. It is a massive hit to the ego and to my mental health. I just hope this doesn’t happen to others.