SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Got scammed for INR 36k. Help needed
DATE: 2024-11-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1h1wk2o/got_scammed_for_inr_36k_help_needed/

--- POST TEXT ---

I clicked on an insta as for a fake prostitution id (didn't knowit was fake), which redirected me to telegram. The I'd was under a girl's name. She messaged her prices and services and ask for INR 400 to confirm I wasn't a bit or something. And then asked where I wanted the services, I told her the place and she picked a hotel and gave me date and time. I reached at the hotel at that time and then when I asked to room id from her, her "agency" support called me and told me to pay 2k which was the service charge. Then he told me to pay 8.5k for security deposit which he said would be refunded after the service. Then he said that it should have been 8.5k twice for her and security person. I didn't have it. I had to borrow 1.3k from my friend for the first 8.5k and then I had to borrow another 8.5k from him. And then he asked for my aadhar card and I sent it to him with hiding my face and name. And then he asked me 17k for id verification and said it would be refunded within 30 seconds. I didn't have it and he wasn't refunding my previous money even after I said I was cancelling the service. He said refund can only be done after verification I'd. I was scared so the next day I secretly sent him that money from my mom's account and then he said that I have to send 17o twice for id verification within 5 minutes or everything will be lost. Then i confirmed it was a scam. I still haven't told my parents because I am scared plus we had my cousin sisters wedding yesterday and this scam happened 2 days before that. I don't know what to do. I told my bank about this and they blocked my account to prevent any more scans and i contacted cyber cell for this but they want my account number which I don't remember and I can't access from phone because account is blocked and bank is not picking up phone because my balance is too low. My account number is on the cheque book but I don't know where it is, my dad keeps it. I am a 19 year old btw.
What should I do?