SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: FedEx scam : 10L worth of fraud transaction
DATE: 2024-06-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1d6g58f/fedex_scam_10l_worth_of_fraud_transaction/

--- POST TEXT ---

Firstly i know i am an idiot that I believed in the typical FedEx scam call, as I was not aware of this scam.

i have been an ICICI bank customer for past 9 years, never knew this relationship will turn into an absolute nightmare.After a very distressing call/video call from the people claiming to be FedEx customer support/Cybercrime/Narcotics Bureau(with fake ID proofs) on 24th April. I was coerced into transferring Funds worth 10L.With my ICICI bank account details, the fraudsters raised a Loan of INR 10 Lakh. The loan was sanctioned without my knowledge or consent. The bank officials did not contact me and verify it before processing the loan. I didn't receive a single phone call, or i haven't made any requests asking for loan. The loan got approved and transferred to my account (which I was completely unaware of as my funds were less than INR 10k) while i was in call with the scammers. I was threatened with money Laundering and Drugs case as he claimed that money is illicit, hence needs to be transferred immediately as i was unable to justify the source of the funds. By inducing fear as I was not aware about the funds where abouts i was coerced to transfer that amount to the SBI account . The scammers/Bank has then closed my banking service and debit card immediately after the transfer and I suspected something was wrong and went to bank and realized that personal Loan of 10L has been sanctioned. within 2 hours i raised a cybercomplaint and bank complaint. Submitted the Signed dispute form with the bank the same day. Next day morning FIR was raised with Cyberabad police.

Now here is where i might have neglected : I had shared the screen to show all my bank transactions that i dont have any money laundering happening in my account, He might have taken the otp from screen. He logged into my netbanking and disbursed the loan.

It is shocking that the bank processed such a huge personal loan without bothering to confirm and verify. This huge negligence as they are able to manage several marketing calls everyday but unable to verify. Upon verifying the loan documents sent to my email, I discovered they lack essential information such as my salary, employment, Signatures. This account was opened as a student account while i was studying in college, and the status of this account was automatically upgraded to Privileged account without my consent/request. I hardly have 20-30 transactions yearly on that account. How can banks be so negligent with the verification process as there are several cybercrimes happening everyday.After multiple communications with the bank, they are still insisting me to pay the EMIs. The lack of verification from the bank has raised a huge financial and mental burden. This is very alarming that bank is not willing to admit that their verification process is very weak and putting liability (of loan EMI) on customers while scammers are running free. The bank is still investigating the issue but not willing to hold the EMI.After connecting with the SBI bank i got in hold of the fraudsters account statement for that day and realized there are worth 1.2 CR fraud happened on that same account and 6 complaints has been raised.out of these transactions around 1 CR worth of transactions are from ICICI bank (Not sure if complete or partial was loan). I suspect the Account data is getting leaked from the Bank. All those 6 complaints are more that 10L worth of transactions.

Upon reviewing the loan documents they have incorrect information that i belong to PEP category, salary not mentioned, Employer not mentioned. RBI says that PEP category should be verified by higher officials of the bank.

Need legal advice if i stand a chance in not paying the EMIs, the penalties will build up. I have a FIR copy, all fraud transactions that happened in that account, The loan documents are not correct, My device was not used to digitally sign the documents, my location was different. Will bank take legal procedings with me if i dont repay.

Please please suggest, i am having a huge mental, emotional breakdown.