SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Pahalgam: 6 terrorists including 2 locals carried out attack, sought tourists’ IDs before opening fire
AUTHOR: Ananya Bhardwaj
DATE: 2025-04-22
URL: https://theprint.in/india/pahalgam-6-terrorists-including-2-locals-carried-out-attack-sought-tourists-ids-before-opening-fire/2599306/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
At least six terrorists, including two local Kashmiris trained in Pakistan, in two groups sprayed bullets with AK47s at tourists in Kashmir’s Pahalgam Tuesday afternoon, ThePrint has learnt.
The two locals from Kashmir had gone to Pakistan for training in 2017 and infiltrated with the last batch of foreign terrorists, according to sources in the security establishment.
The sources also confirmed that the terrorists were in khaki attire and were present in the area for over an hour, before they fled the spot. “This is the work of Lashkar-e-Taiba. More than four terrorists armed with AK assault rifles identified tourists by asking their names and fired upon groups,” one of the sources said.
Show Full Article
At least 26 people were killed and several others injured in what is turning out to be one of the deadliest attacks in the Kashmir Valley in recent years. The attack at Baisaran Valley, a popular destination where hundreds of tourists visit the meadow on horseback daily, came at a time when US Vice-President J.D.Vance is currently in India on a four-day visit.
A woman tourist made the initial call to the police control room at 2.45 p.m. stating that gunshots were heard in Baisaran, it is learnt. A police party was rushed to the spot along with personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Army.
Eyewitnesses have told the police that the terrorists even sought ID cards of some tourists and singled them out, before opening fire. There was no presence of either police personnel or the Army in the area at that point.
“This is the biggest attack in the history of Kashmir on tourists. The terrorists opened fire which led to so many casualties. There are videos that show that the pants of some tourists were also removed, but it is not certain why that happened,” the source said. “The search for the men is on.”
Union Home Minister Amit Shah landed in Srinagar to take stock of the situation after he held a meeting with key officials in New Delhi.
(Edited by Tony Rai)
Also Read:
‘Hollow claims of normalcy’: Rahul Gandhi slams Centre as terrorists kill at least 25 in Pahalgam