SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Hotel reservation scams.
DATE: 2025-02-08
SCORE: 113
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1ik3gue/hotel_reservation_scams/

--- POST TEXT ---

I posted about this in r/hotels somewhat recently and someone told me I should post it here. So here I am! 

I work at a small, boutique style hotel. I primarily make reservations, answer the phones, and assist with whatever guest needs might arise. 

Recently I had a man make an online reservation through the hotel booking engine. Specifically I mean he did not go third party (booking.com or expedia for example) and booked through the hotel's direct website. 

At our hotel we take the first night's deposit for every reservation, regardless of how many nights they are staying. If they are only staying one night, then we take the whole thing for example, at the time of booking. 

So I had an online reservation come through from our website with the name "Fred Adams" listed on the credit card and the reservation name. He had reserved our most expensive room type over the most expensive days (the room rates change based on season). So his deposit was over $700 after factoring in the first night stay plus the room add-on he had ordered (food platter). 

This is an unusually expensive deposit. Average is like $158 or $250 depending on the room and dates. 

He then started calling the hotel repeatedly and every time I spoke to him I noticed an extremely thick "Indian" accent and a very pronounced, weird delay between the time I would say something and when he would answer me or respond. It was like he was using a calling software with a delay, or waiting for translation. 

The way he kept hurriedly requesting me to "send over the entire folio" for the credit card/reservation immediately set off red flags. I have never heard anyone request that before. He tried to tell me that it was a virtual card he used when he booked, but I can see on my end whether or not that's the case and it definitely wasn't a real or authentic virtual card. It was presenting as a normal physical card that someone typed into the field on the site. 

I got in contact with my supervisor and she said it sounds like a scam. After googling it I discovered that people can use a fake or stolen card to make a purchase (like a hefty hotel room deposit) then request a refund and have the money go to a totally different account that they have set up. I don't know the ins-and-outs of how exactly it works, but it's an interesting system to basically use the hotel to move stolen money. I don't know if it was a fake card/name or one that was stolen but I definitely did not refund the card and not surprisingly he stopped calling after about a week.