SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Jharkhand govt to soon recruit over 1,200 doctors: Health Minister
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/india/jharkhand-govt-to-soon-recruit-over-1200-doctors-health-minister/2887471/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Ranchi, Mar 24 (PTI) Jharkhand Health Minister Irfan Ansari on Tuesday announced that more than 1,200 doctors will be recruited soon to strengthen healthcare services across the state.
He said the appointments would be made through the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) to address the shortage of medical professionals in government hospitals.
“We will soon recruit over 1,200 doctors through JPSC to improve healthcare facilities in hospitals,” he said while handing appointment letters to 76 newly-recruited contractual doctors at a programme in Ranchi.
Show Full Article
Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Ajoy Kumar Singh said a requisition has already been sent to JPSC for the recruitment of 1,243 doctors.
The recruitment would be made for 297 medical officers, 189 assistant professors, 97 assistant professors (super specialist) and 660 specialist doctors, he said.
The minister also announced plans to address the shortage of blood in the state by engaging an external agency.
“The agency will be responsible for arranging and supplying blood. A toll-free number will be issued, and people will be able to book blood on call,” he said.
Ansari said CT scan and MRI facilities will be installed in all medical colleges, district hospitals and sadar hospitals to reduce patient load at major centres in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad.
He said the government will conduct tests for sickle cell anaemia and thalassemia to assess the exact number of affected patients in the state.
“Jharkhand is also working towards eliminating tuberculosis by 2029. Around 76,000 TB patients had been identified in the state till December 2025 and are currently undergoing treatment,” he said. PTI SAN SAN SOM
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.