SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Internships are scams in INDIA
DATE: 2023-12-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/188k083/internships_are_scams_in_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

For a year or so I am trying to get a good internship but my DS ALGO is weak so a good company is out of the question. Now coming to the development part I would say I am pretty good at development as a student. Whenever I go to platforms like Internshala, Instashyre, cuvette, cutshort etc etc and whatnot best job searching platforms, I see many internships and after applying to those, I have the same results. They want me to do a big and complicated assignment. Time to elaborate.

They are asking to build a full-stack MERN CMS, admin dashboard, quiz app, e-commerce app and whatnot. Some are even asking to build full-stack social media apps. And all of these complex web apps need to be built within 2 to 3 days as the deadline. Like kuch bhi. How in the world can someone build such complex web apps within 3 days and also with best optimizations and code quality. It happened to me multiple times. I made e-commerce and full-stack apps for them within 3 days by working my a\*\* off the night but after I submit the assignments, they say I didn't made it to the second round or I am not good enough or they don't even respond.(Being unprofessional,"m\*ad\*rc\*\*d, then why make me do the assignments even in the first place, if I am not good enough). They want best of the world code quality, enterprise production level quality from a student who want to gain experience and learn, wow.

Now some will say maybe I am not good enough, but what do you expect from a student, code repo as good as 10yrs exp person. I know MERN stack and I build projects using that. I know what is out there, and I always grind and my code is as good as most of the students and I am hella confident in that.

Also now some will say if you don't want to develop software then why come in the field?

My problem is not that mate. My point is why I will work for free to build a complex web application for a company that I don't had interview with yet.

Coming to the conclusion, I personally thing these are scams to get their work done for free. I got assignments from assignment IBM and they wanted me to solve 2 ds algo questions. I also did interviews with good startups and they straight jumped to the phone call with interview scheduled later. None of the good companies wanted me to build a complex web app. From what I experienced these companies are scamming innocent students and grads. Like who knows, maybe they want a code template and want it for free, or some may want the exact app and get it done by a innocent student and then change it a little and then sell it to their customers.

And honorary brats(companies) that do these type of scams that I know are:-

1. BlackCoffer
2. Super Assistant
3. Stamurai
4. TheDigitalShift
5. QuadBtech
6. Cipher Schools
7. Cipher School
8. Inkoop
9. Emitrr 
and many more that I forgot the names even

I thing our INDIAN government should take some steps to clean up this mess. Anybody's coming and making people work for free giving them hope.

Sorry for the long write but full elaboration was indeed needed. And sorry for slangs but when you make complex apps for absolutely free without sleep multiple times, you'll also be angry. It does take a toll on my mental and physical health.