SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need help - Colive Advisory Private Limited Bangalore
DATE: 2024-09-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1f9j4r0/need_help_colive_advisory_private_limited/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello all. Colive has been harassing me for not paying rent before leaving that place. I have all the evidences of me paying rent and the email of their system generated notice period too. I have paid rent too. Even after that one month notice I have paid rent. They started sending me dues for 2 months and then they have sent me legal notice last month. They have harassed me by sending WhatsApp messages to pay rent and email and ultimately that legal notice through email also demanded me to pay 50k. Since I had all the evidences and also started to document everything about how they falsified evidences- be it like raising a new notice period few months back and then using it against me as the new one and asking me to pay money considering from that new fake falsified time period, or other examples like- screenshots of not responding to service requests I raised in app. They have wiped all my data in their colive app too- no history or rent in the app now. I documented everything and I have been explaining to them that they are falsely accusing me and few days back they closed the email chat after 2 repeated calls from their end and they even sent a NOC email saying no pending dues. Meanwhile all these fights, I raised a complaint in consumer forum, the consumer forum has sent 5 emails that I can see status of it in the consumer forum website to which they have not responded. 
Honestly I’m not happy with their services and they still hold my deposit money. I have been in too much of mental stress and trauma and I want to demand compensation for all this.

I am willing to go by any stringent legal path and I want to take a very serious action colive advisory private limited. If I do not take this action, that company is going to harass 1000more innocents. I have been a man of integrity and nowhere on earth would tolerate this unethical behaviour. How do I proceed further to get my deposit back and also get my compensation for falsely accusing me and harassing me?