Recently I was a victim of a FEDEX courier scam. The Scammers imposing as police threatened me of consequences. They held me at mobile video call with screen sharing for 3 Hrs on the pretext of interrogation. They made me read the statement loud during this process. Once I was exhausted and vulnerable, they gained access to my credentials and performed the scam. They applied for Insta personal loan on my account which was Disbursed into my account without my knowledge or approval. The scammers transferred the total amount in my account and left me with a debt of 5.7 lakhs. I am customer with ICICI bank for more than 10 years. I got 2 authentication calls from ICICI which the scammers did not let me answer. But ICICI doesn't seem to consider this authentication. There were multiple red flags where ICICI could have detected and alerted me. some of the red flags are as below. - My Account was logged in by the scammer from country outside India from a new device - The loan calls were not received by me nor did I authenticate them - There were able to login simultaneously into my net banking, when I was already logged in. Atleast if ICICI had the call verification for the loan, it would have alerted me and protected me from the scam. I had no sleep the night before the day of scam due to my new born. I did not had breakfast and was reading the statement loud for 3 hours over the call. I was close to fainting by that time. Since the loan got disbursed without my knowledge, I wasn't able to understand what was happening. The Scammer said they were running some checks which I was not in a position to think. Now left with a debt of 5.7 Lakhs, I keep getting calls from ICICI for the EMI. I am drained out of funds in my account. I am continuously roaming between police station, cyber security, Banks and lawyers. Raised complaints with ICICI, RBI, Raised complaint at CYBERCELL, filed FIR in police station. All complaints with ICICI and RBI were closed telling bank disbursed the loan with my credentials. Even now I see the Insta loan options in my account. I never opted for this features in my account nor was I aware that these features were there in my account. I don't see an option to disable or remove them either. I had to save after paying all the taxes and expenses. No I had to pay the EMI too from my taxed salary. I wish I could get some justice in this hopeless situation. Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (0)