SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Sister was taking online loan and want to use my account. The lender wanted my login information to my bank?!?
DATE: 2023-10-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/17irqj2/sister_was_taking_online_loan_and_want_to_use_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sister was taking out a loan online, she doesn’t have a bank account because she screwed up back in the day. So she asked me if they could transfer the money into my account, I didn’t like it but said yes, and gave her my bank account numbers.

The lender(used loosely at this point) wanted to talk to me before the transfer to get my approval, said sure. She called them back and had me on 3 way with them and her. Went through some 10 seconds of India accent blah blah, no information, legal speak, no saying their name and what company or that they were recording on my approval, what my legal responsibility was by taking the money going into my account or anything which I thought was wired. 

The guy then ask do I accept the money going into my account, I said yes. The the guy ask what bank I was with, then asked if my bank has photo deposit(take a picture of the check), I said yes. Then he asked what the color of the bank logo was(what?? I guess he was looking up the website). The he asked me for my login in information….. I said can you repeat that, he says login information name and password. For what!?! He said he has the check on his desk ready to deposit and he was going to login and photo deposit it….

Uhhhhhhhhhhh, i don’t think you are, I’m not giving out my login to some random guy(wanted to say another word). But he started talking and I said Nonoono and said what kinda renkidink crap is this and hung up.

Sister called me and said sorry and she didn’t know that they were going to ask something like that. I said you better check onyour credit or something. 

Sounds like some bull crap scam to me what do you think. If it was a real bank and had my bank account info they could just send it like a transfer, right?