SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Safeguarding my mum's interests if my father's having an affair and it comes to a divorce?
DATE: 2022-08-16
SCORE: 29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/wpt4je/safeguarding_my_mums_interests_if_my_fathers/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm writing this from a throwaway account for obvious reasons. Anyway, I (M, 31, living in Maharashtra) accidentally found out a few days ago that my father is involved with another woman in some capacity since Jan/Feb 2021. I do not know the exact nature of their relationship, but he's either simply a benefactor, her sugar daddy, or being financially exploited/blackmailed. After snooping through his email inbox, I found purchase receipts for clothes, jewellery, groceries, etc., from a couple of e-commerce websites. He also has transferred money to her account at least a few times, and taking everything into account, he has spent at least 3.5 lakhs or more on her.

I also confirmed that this isn't a case of hacking because I found their Whatsapp chats, which currently date back to March 2022. If it helps, there's seemingly nothing explicit in there. The extent of their Whatsapp correspondence is largely her sending links of stuff she wants, which he has then acknowledged and bought. There is very little textual communication beyond this and they seem to primarily communicate through video calls.

I need y'alls legal advice because if this isn't resolved healthily and goes south or comes to divorce, I want to make sure that my mother's financial security and interests are safeguarded. She has no income of her own and all major assets, property, and finances are in my father's name. They have a few joint accounts, but it hardly amounts to anything. As far as I know, he hasn't made any efforts to make the woman in question a beneficiary (?) to any assets etc. Obviously, I would like to act before it comes to that.

Would truly appreciate any advice on what records I should try to obtain to support my mother's case or any general legal advice for a situation like this, since blackmail by the woman in question due to camsex or some such gone wrong, etc., is also a possibility. Does a family lawyer need to be brought in asap? Should one be consulted before bringing this up with my father? I will add more details in an edit, if needed. Thank you!