SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: someone impersonating a police officer called me and abusively threatened to prosecute me over something, here's is why I think it isn't at all a scam and enquiry as to what is the recourse here.....
DATE: 2024-09-18
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fjk7ch/someone_impersonating_a_police_officer_called_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

(posting this on behalf of u\MoyeMoeMoyeMoeMoye) 
 
I am a 20 year old male from UP, about 3 years ago I met a person over a anonymous voice based chatting app, his name being A (say), we bonded over similar interests and we would talk almost daily over the platform, it didn't occur to us that we should share a whole lot about our personal lives besides number, here's what else he told me about himself:
 
That he is a nearing 30 year old engineer who is about to marry.
 
That he is an IIT graduate working at microsoft.
 
I didn't even know what to do with that information as it had little to do with our conversation (we are srivaishnava hindus and mostly bonded over discussing religion and philosophy).
 
About 10 days ago, I noticed that he had been offline for a week, so I scrambled through my contacts list to pull his number and tried calling him 3 times before giving up, I didn't give it much of a thought because its common for us men to get off internet every once in a while after watching a motivational short.
 
cut to the the present, about one month passes since the last call I gave him, at 9 o'clock in the morning his father calls from a separate number, asks why I was trying to contact him and what is my identity, I tell him my name and city and also that he and I were internet friends and would like to get back into touch, he cuts and I go about my day.
 
later, at 9 o'clock in the evening, someone who claimed to be a police officer calls, asks who am I and how do I know 'A', he tells me my name and asks to confirm it, so I do and I tell him that we were internet friends and met over an anonymous platform.
 
he starts abusing with the most crass language imaginable, it was almost as if he is a goon and not a police officer, he accuses me of being a terroristic child groomer for contacting a supposed minor, up until now I had no Idea that 'A' is actually a minor and lied to me and a couple other mutual of ours about his whole persona, he abuses for a minute then I cut and quickly made a cyber complaint with his number though I didn't record the conversation.
 
after about 30 minutes he calls back, says that he has connected me to his senior, I could hear some 5-6 people screaming insults and a coarse, distinct voice from this supposed "senior", he tried to solicit my father's name and address from me, to which I denied, they kept asking as to how I knew "A" and why was I trying to contact him, he wouldn't take "we are friends" for an answer and insisted that I am al-queda and am grooming 'A'.
 
they also threatened me with abuses, what all he said was very un-police like to say the very least, in 5 minutes of the call he only really threatens me with the worst kind of abuses known to man for 3 of those minutes.
 
He said that since I am being reluctant to give out details, he will deal with me in the morning, I blocked all their numbers and am still awaiting calls.
 
luckily for me I recorded this call and attached to another, more elaborate cyber complaint, but since I made these in the midnight I am doubtful whether these will be taken seriously or not.
 
some of out mutuals who also tried contacting him on phone got similar threatening calls.
 
my father says they are a scam, so did some of the participants of this subreddit when I made this same post earlier at midnight, though it was a MUCH less informative one where I left out a great deal of information (I hope mods will forgive me making a duplicate post if I plead sincerely).
 
But how can this be a scam when they are clearly acting out in protecting a minor? I know that their anger might not be misplaced but I want to know how can I safeguard myself from further bullying, what if they make a farzi cyber complaint with my name and number which they have? shall I seek the police in regards to this, or a lawyer even? I no longer want anything to do with 'A'.