SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: From Jobless to 1Cr.+
DATE: 2024-09-29
SCORE: 388
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1fs0885/from_jobless_to_1cr/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, my journey has been quite the adventure! At 29, I crossed the 1 Cr milestone, but it's been a bumpy ride.

Flashback to 2018, I was 23, fresh out of university, and eager to make my mark at a bank's financial management team. I poured my heart into my job, but recognition didn't come easily.

Then came 2020, the pandemic hit, and with it, my world turned upside down. I found myself jobless and back in my hometown, living with my parents. Despite my best efforts, nothing seemed to go right. Then, out of the blue, I was kicked out of the family house. With no job and a great uncertainty about life and career, I started living on rent, counting my days and the money draining out of the account. It was a fearful time, the pandemic was peaking and nobody was hiring. The landlord was suspicious of me. Thankfully, I had saved 8L, including EPF, by living a  frugal life for 2 years in my first job. This safety net was my lifeline throughout the year.

Things began to change in 2021. I landed a job that valued my skills and paid well. I had to prove my worth and contribute in a meaningful way to deserve this. I gave my all to every task that came my way. The following year, I got promoted. At the same time, I continued honing my investment skills, learning about charts and strategies at night and on weekends. My goal was to excel at my job while becoming a better portfolio manager.

Jump to the present day, and my net worth has crossed the psychological 8-figure mark of 1Cr+. Awarded another promotion at work for my contribution. Last year alone, my portfolio returned 45%. On the family front, things have also improved. I crossed this milestone a few months ago, but I always felt uncomfortable about telling anything good about me to the world. Only recently, I started feeling confident about myself so here it is.

From being jobless and homeless to reaching a financial milestone I once could only dream of—this journey has taught me the importance of integrity, persistence and a truck load of mental strength.

I'm just grateful for the lessons learned along the way.

Edit: 
Here is my scam. I am neither a SEBI registered advisor nor analyst. I am not providing any free or paid services. My belief and only advice is that mutual funds are the best for most of the people.

I didn't save the entire 1Cr from doing jobs. I saved as much as possible from my take home salary and made some right investments which helped me to reach 1Cr.+ in this time.

Thanks everyone for wishing me good, power to you.

Edit 2:
The CTC question:

Current: 
30L + variable. (6 months as of now)

Prior years CTC: 
25L, 18L, 15L

Before the pandemic CTC:
10L (10 months), 9L, 7.5L (3 months)

The variable component is generally 10%.