SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Am I cooked?
DATE: 2024-08-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1f2s0pk/am_i_cooked/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi lawyers and people of this sub. 

I wanted to get some insights on what can be done in a situation of getting scam emails every day mentioning your alias and phone number. 
The emails started coming on 7th of this month and last one was till yesterday. 
Every mail is sent through different email and ip address with a pdf attachment.

Content of the attachment 

“Marcus,
Is calling 6
O a better way to contact you if you don't cooperate.
So it's important you pay attention to this message right now. Take a moment to chill, breathe, and analyze it thoroughly.
'Cause we're about to discuss a deal between you and me, and I need you to be on point. You do not know me whereas I know you and you must be thinking how, correct?
You've been a bit careless lately, clicking through those girlie videos and clicking on links, stumbling upon some not-so-safe sites. I actually placed a Malware on a porn website &amp; you accessed it to watch(you know what I mean). And while you were busy watching those videos, your smartphone began working as a RDP (Remote Control) which allowed me total accessibility to your smartphone. I can look at everything on your screen, flick on your cam and mic, and you wouldn't have a clue. Oh, and I have got access to all your emails, contacts, and social media accounts too.
What did I do?
Been keeping tabs on your pathetic life for a while now. It's just your bad luck that I came across your misadventures. I gave in more time than I should have looking into your personal life. Extracted quite a bit of juicy info from your system. and I've seen it all. Yeah, Yeah, I've got footage of you jerking off in your room (nice setup, by the way). I then developed videos and screenshots where on one side of the screen, there's whatever garbage you had been watching, and on the other half, it is your vacant face. With just a single click, I can send this filth to every single of your contacts.
What should you do?
Your confusion is clear, but don't expect sympathy. As a family man, I am willing to wipe the slate clean, and allow you to move on with your life and forget you ever existed. I am about to present you two options. Either ignore this message (not recommended) or pay me a small amount to close this mattter for life. Let's examine these two options in details.
First Option is to ignore my e-mail. Let me tell you what will happen if you choose this path. Your video will get sent to all of your contacts. The video was lit, and I can't even fathom the embarrasement you'll face when your colleagues, friends, and fam watch it. But hey, that's life, ain't it? Don't be playing the victim here.
Second Wise option is to pay me, and be confidential about it. We will name it my "keep the secret charges". Lets discuss what will happen when you select this path. Your dirty secret remains private. I'll wipe everything clean once you send payment. You'll send the payment through Bitcoins only. I want you to know I'm aiming for a win-win here. My word is my bond.
Required Amount: USD 6000
BITCOING ADDRESS: 179WcntobalaLp990Fxcyu8P2g6ZWCguT
Or, (Here is Bitcoin QR code, you can scan it):
Once you pay up, you'll sleep like a baby. I keep my word.
And of course: You got one day to sort this out. (I've a unique pixel within this email message, and right now I know that you've read through this e-mail). My system will catch that Bitcoin payment and wipe out all the dirt I got on you. Don't even think about replying to this, it's pointless. The email and wallet are custom-made for you, untraceable. I don't make mistakes, Marcus. If I catch that you've shared or discussed this message with anyone else, your video will instantly start getting sent to your contacts. And don't even think about turning off your phone or resetting it to factory settings. It's pointless. Let's get this sorted out within 5-6 hours, I'm waiting for the payment.
Honestly, those online tips about covering your camera aren't as useless as they seem.
Don't dwell on it. Take it as a little lesson and keep your guard up in the future.
“

TL;DR: I am getting scam mails regularly. The mails have same pdf regarding some juicy info about me (which is factually wrong) and wants to extort money from me in the form of bitcoin
I am ignoring this email as of now but I am getting it on regular basis now. So just wanted some advice if this is something that should be taken to cyber authorities or something. 

Thank you