SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Elaborate Scams that "guarantee" Returns on Stocks
DATE: 2024-10-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1fw6wkx/elaborate_scams_that_guarantee_returns_on_stocks/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just read this post - [https://www.reddit.com/r/stocks/s/U2Y7aqlj8E](https://www.reddit.com/r/stocks/s/U2Y7aqlj8E)

I initially tried to post this on r/stocks but could not as my karma is low. Trying to post here. 

I am not someone who likes to post. But I have a huge problem with anyone who wants to scam people and take their hard earned money. So you won't find any posts on my profile, but I am someone who means well for people. 

The above linked post is one of the examples of an elaborate scam to show crazy profits and orchestrate a system such that people would think it is genuine and that they have found their golden egg giving hen. Naturally, anyone would want to at least check it out, right? No harm in joining the group coz you aren't spending any money in doing so.

Well, you're right about that. But that's how they operate. I'll talk about the instance where I was directly involved.

I am part of a WhatsApp group for finding housing or roommates. It is a very popular group and has many people. So you wouldn't know everyone in it. Now one of these scammers is already in the group with a fake but genuine looking name and profile pic. There are many of them. You remove one, another one will keep posting periodically.

They post these links to investment whatsapp groups/communities when "expert" people share advise on the stocks to pick. FOR FREE! They would also post screenshots of their own stock screener.

Give one or 2 days, they will post about analyzing active group members and ask you to reply to a thread just to show you are active. And they would also talk about providing more detailed analysis to people who are more active.

This is stage 1.

Now the ones who replied, are people who have trust in them (so far). I did this. After all, I also wanted to keep hearing about massive opportunities! Although, I hadn't put any money so far and was just analyzing the stocks they suggested. Most of them were small cap companies.

Comes stage 2. You are removed from that group and added to a new one. Similar analysis. The groups have an assistant and an analyst who would suggest stocks and provide their insight about market. Posting technical stuff that non-finance people like me would not really understand too deep or care about. But the mumbo jumbo would seem good. As humans, we like to invest in things whe don't understand or read about. At least that's what Peter Lynch thinks, sadly.

Surprisingly, all stocks they suggested went up by the percentage that the analyst suggested. I observed for 4 different recommendations. It did lead me to think whether some insider trading is involved or not. Because the messages and movements just didn't make sense.

So I invested 100 dollars into one of his recs and boy did it tank. It was a very small amount I put in so I am not really sad about it. Then I did a Google Image search on analyst's profile pic and turns out that the person is actually a TV reporter (CNBC, afair) from UK and that particular image was from the time he covered some story I found on internet with the exact same image. But the name was different here. Never found anything for the assistant though. That stock is still tanked btw and the SEC had to reverse split the stock. It is YYAI.

I sensed that something was wrong and doing the image search bolstered that thought. In hindsight, I should have done that first instead of putting in the 100 bucks as I was already doubting it.

After a week or 2, they again started posting about a better group for more detailed analysis. But I was done with them at that point. I did post about this scam in one of the threads, but then I was removed and my message was deleted. Obviously. I still get added to some random group some times. I just report it and exit the group.

Basically the pool of gullible people keeps reducing in the "better" groups and they eventually take their money. by offering to use their trading screen/platform or some other way. They also get an idea about how much you are investing as they DM people and ask the size of their portfolio. So they do have an idea about the projected amount of money they can make.

After going through the linked post, I can see the same patter on the discord and that post and this is one of those scams. Here are some facts based on my knowledge from reading WSJ. It is easy to find their articles with a simple Google search.

1. Pig butchering scam mobs from Myanmar have millions of images and they can easily create someone's fake life. There's a story on this and also a podcast on WSJ Spotify.

2. An article about this was also in a local newspaper in India and much of it was common with the experience I had. They basically tell one group that one stock would go up and tell the other and it would go down. Artifically controlling a stock price.

I did think of reporting this to SEC. But I never did though as I was unsure if this would be important to them.

Hope this helps people out here. Don't get greedy and stay informed!