SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Why are women accused of being too emotional to be leaders?
DATE: 2023-08-06
SCORE: 20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/15jly7q/why_are_women_accused_of_being_too_emotional_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

Humans are emotional beings in general. But why are only women accused of being 'too emotional' to be suitable for being leaders or in high-level managerial positions?

Is it because generally, women tend to be more expressive about their emotions and feelings? People make broad generalizations like 'women would let emotions sway their decision-making if they are leaders' but historically or even in the current corporate world seldom such examples are heard. (If you do have any good examples, please go ahead and share. I want to know how people think emotions would deter decision-making in women in leadership positions)

One reason I can think of is that relatively, women are more empathetic and care about people's feelings. That is one stereotypical reason that can be a potential disadvantage while being a leader. (This quality of course has its advantages, but let's ignore them for now)

Also, aren't men susceptible to making irrational decisions based on emotions too?

There are plenty of biological and stereotypical reasons that would make men incapable leaders.

For example, men are more likely to let their egos come in between and make rash decisions. (Gotta acknowledge that ego can also be advantageous sometimes in leadership positions but again, I am ignoring the advantages for now)

Men are also stereotypically more likely to make rash decisions purely out of anger or throw temper tantrums in workplaces and make extreme decisions because of it. (seen it happen irl as well as in history)

Men are (stereotypically/biologically) hornier as well and hence more prone to honey-trapping (also seen this happen irl) (and there are plenty of historical examples where significant male leaders have made rash/ destructive decisions because of honey-trapping/women)

Men also are victims of being brainwashed by cults or extremist organizations/ideologies whose roots are of course emotions, like fear, anger, resentment, feeling of belonging, guilt, shame, and so on.

However, no one takes these biological/stereotypical qualities of men and invalidates their competency of being a leader.

Also, women being emotionally expressive in their personal lives is not a valid reason to undermine their leadership qualities. People function differently in their personal and work lives.

So, why in the world do people (even women) think that women are incapable of being leaders? Aren't leadership qualities something that can be there or attained regardless of gender? Isn't one of the good qualities of being a leader to be able to make decisions without biases, be it emotional or any other?

When will society get over this bs and see people for people and not the gender they are? How will humanity progress if we stay obsessed with living up to and imposing stereotypes on others, rather than just working towards larger goals that will lead to breakthroughs, innovations, and collective benefit?