1. Mr om sanwariya is a person of bad moral character, con man and fraudster. Mr om sanwariya is the business manager of fraudulent company that has been set up solely for the purpose of cheating people out of their money. It is noteworthy that, aforementioned companies may provide actual physical products only to initially lure customers and gain their trust, but mostly this business run on "investments" that are supposed to be paid back. Under the garb of these fraudulent companies following the modus operandi of mlms-multi level marketing, the mr om sanwariya is running a ponzi (Fraudulent investment scheme). One such company under the garb of which the mr om sanwariya is seeking investments in the state of maharashtra is called bitfox enterprises having its registered office at shop no 1-4, mantra delux, near icici bank branch nagar road, wagholi, pune 412207. The mr om sanwariya in turn after opening, registering and verifying these companies to the public eye and before the registrar of companies, proceeded to recruit more individuals, known associates who would in turn be in charge of recruiting and getting in more investors by cheating them 2. I was having no prior knowledge or experience of investing in companies, considered it safer to vest his wealth with this individual. I came across mr om sanwariya in sep 2019, who approached me for the purposes of investment. Mr om sanwariya represented himself as an enterprising gentleman, managing finances of two companies, vis-à-vis bitfox enterprises & cdc (India) advertising pvt ltd located at shop no 1-4, mantra delux lodge, near icici bank branch nagar road, wagholi, pune – 412207. Mr om sanwariya informed me that all his company were 100% boot strapped and therefore the mr om sanwariya convinced me that ‘bitfox enterprises’ as a personal brand will grow manifold during the course of the coming years through its business advertisement www.bitfoxdeals.com on internet, only if i could help the mr om sanwariya with an amount of money / loan in terms of investment. Impressed by the confident and trustworthy demeanor of the mr om sanwariya, the i readily agreed to not only collate my life’s savings, however, the mr om sanwariya repeatedly insisted that the said loan amount be credited to the accounts of one of his ventures, namely ‘bitfox enterprises’ which would save mr om sanwariya considerable payments in respect of tax implications. I was further re-assured that the repayment of the entire loan amount shall be made through the personal / above company accounts of mr om sanwariya, directly to the personal accounts of the i since mr om sanwariya never intended to make any investment in corporate entities but only believed in the infinite power of people. Mr om sanwariya then forwarded me a copy of agreement / mou on whatsapp for assurance. Mrs durgi (Director) of cdc (India) advertising pvt ltd (Wife of mr om sanwariya) had signed mou / agreement, on behalf of bitfox enterprises being a sister concerned company as mentioned in the mou. 3. I trusted and respected mr om sanwariya as a personal confidante and regressively fell into the trap laid by him who posed as a wolf in sheep’s clothing and whose sole intention was to extort a huge sum of money from a man of honor, who the mr om sanwariya believed would never take legal recourse. My belief in the inherent goodness of people eventually turned out to be the biggest nightmare of my life when in october 2019, the i approached mr om sanwariya for repayment of the loan amount vested with the mr om sanwariya since the i was facing some domestic problems and had an immediate requirement for money. Mr om sanwariya, however was hesitant in returning the said amount stating financial incapacity as the reason. On repeated insistence, however, he stated that even though he did not possess a substantial sum of money in his accounts of the company namely, ‘bitfox enterprises’ was not profitable and probably on the advice of his chartered accountant, he insisted that i must accept the entire sum of monies due through the accounts of cdc (India) advertising private limited being the sister concerned company of bitfox enterprises. Thereafter mr om sanwariya issued two cheques bearing nos. 000976 & 000977 dated 15 nov 2019 & dated 16 nov 2019 for rs. 4, 37, 750/- and rs 3, 00, 000/- resp payable at icici bank magatpatta pune branch from the company account (I. E a/c no.[protected] of mr om sanwariya. 4. I was informed by mr om sanwariya that the cheques were signed by mrs durgi, wife of mr om sanwariya as she was a director to the company cdc (India) advertising private limited.in a similar manner the mr om sanwariya has also arrayed his father / brother (Mr vinod sanwariya) and other persons as directors such as ms sunita to this fraudulent company registered at his behest. However, by the time the i investigated these aspects, the i had already lost his life savings. 5. I presented the cheques in my saving acct in icici branch, shahibaug for encashment of the said cheque. To my utter shock, the cheques were returned back with a return memos dated 01 jan 2020 with remarks “funds insufficient”. 6. I telephonically informed mr om sanwariya about the dishonoring of the cheques, who then, assured the i that the payment will be made to me in a few days. Then i made repeated demands to mr om sanwariya to release the payment rightfully and lawfully due to me but he paid no heed to my requests. Moreover he even turned hostile and arrogant, threatening me on call, saying “jo karna hai kar lo, mai police se nahi darta, mai tumhare paise nahi deta” implying that he and his family had immense clout and could get away with cheating lakhs of money. I felt cheated and devastated by the mr om sanwariya and his wife. 7. Incessant mental, physical and financial trauma has been caused to me i due to the malafide and dishonest behavior of the mr om sanwariya. I overburdened paying off various liaibilities that were taken by me at the was completely unaware of this pyramid ponzi scheme that was being run by mr om sanwariya and his activities are not only dishonest but also treacherous. The acts of mr om sanwariya and his team has caused grave disrepute to the staunch image as he has immense clout and always manages to escape or evade litigation free to cheat other innocent people. 8. Fir no [protected] dated 19 jan 2020 has been lodged against both mr om sanwariya and his wife at shahibaug police station, ahmedabad (Gujarat). Also i have spoken with pi pratap mankar at lonikand police station, wagholi, pune to do the needful action as gujarat police have requested pune police to arrest these fraud individual and hand over them to gujarat police. 9. I therefore, have earnestly and sincerely requests to your authority to take appropriate action against fraudsters mr om sanwariya and his gang & kindly grant protection to me from their cruel hands. 10. I have no other option except file the present complaint before you to take necessary strict actions against these people and help me get my hard earned money back. 11. Also this will make many people aware of these fraudsters. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (11)