SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Got scammed out of my savings of 3.6 lakhs and became a big fool
DATE: 2025-02-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1ieo8ko/got_scammed_out_of_my_savings_of_36_lakhs_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a post from my friend who is too embarrassed to post this on his account here so got him to write the full event that went by and how he fell for this scam and got swindled out of his savings by these scamsters:

I had received a call from someone claiming to be a senior manager from FedEx. They told me that customs had seized a package going from Hyderabad to Bangkok, and apparently, it contained six passports and a few thousand dollars. I was totally lost because, of course, I hadn't sent any package anywhere. But the person on the phone just kept pushing and said my Aadhaar number had been used for this illegal shipment. Then he said “okay, tell me your name.” I told him and he said is this your phone number? I said yes. They threatened me with legal consequences if I didn’t cooperate from here. Then he asked again saying it could be a serious case of misuse of my aadhaar number and should be reported to cyber crime wing. I got concerned at this point. Then he went on to tell me details so that I could file the complaint. Told me the package number, receiver name, his own name, employee number and everything. Then he went on to tell the contents of the package. Then he said I am forwarding the call to the cyber wing. He did it and now I was talking to a fake officer. He asked me what's the issue, where did I get the call from and everything. Asked me for my aadhaar number to check any records of illegal activities being carried out using it. Then he said that my aadhaar could be compromised or that I am one of the suspects in this case now. I told him that I have nothing to do with this. Then he pretended to interrogate further, asked me again and again how come there's this package, how I got to know about it, who am I, whether I am telling the truth, etc.  He then instructed me to be in empty room and lock the door and not to let anyone in. And then asked me to join a video call meeting for recording of my statement. Made me turn on my video, turned on his own video too for a bit showing himself in police dress along with another officer with Cyber Crime wing logo in the background making it very believable. Both of the men looked to be in their 50's and pretty fat/chubby based on appearance. They said that this call is being recorded and I should be truthful in everything I say and this will be used in court proceedings. Told me to not worry too much just breath and relax nicely, that they are there to help me out if I am proven innocent. At this point, they had my full attention and I was completely captivated and locked into this call with the senior officers. Said I will receive a full clearance certificate after the investigation is complete which is a very important document proving my innocence after verifying my accounts. For over three hours, I was stuck in what I thought was a real interrogation, still unaware it was all a scam. I tried to stay calm, knowing I was completely innocent and confident I could talk my way out of it. At one point, they sent me a photo of a criminal and asked if I recognized him. I said no, and they immediately pressed me, asking if I was telling the truth. They then sent me a fake letter of acknowledgment and a phony arrest warrant. The "officer" assured me that since I was cooperating, the warrant was on hold for now. They kept insisting this was a serious case and that I shouldn’t share any details with anyone. I was told to keep quiet and ensure no one interrupted the official statement I was supposedly giving. They warned me not to hide anything and to share all the information I could remember. They asked me about my bank accounts and assets, and I continued to "cooperate" as they directed. After over 3.5 hours on the call, they said the anti-money laundering (AML) authorities were going to investigate my accounts. Then they told me I needed to transfer a sum of money to a specific account, promising it would be returned if my account was cleared of any links to criminal activity. The document they sent also referred to this as part of something called a "Rapid Frequency Test." I agreed and asked how much I needed to transfer. They said the AML authority would send them the instructions, and they pretended to relay the directions, telling me the account number and the amount to send. They also asked me to take screenshots of each transfer and send them for documentation. That's how I ended up emptying my entire bank account. Then they asked me about my other accounts and had them emptied as well in a short span of time. They kept probing me further to disclose other accounts as well cause if they found out other accounts, it can be a problem for me so I told him everything I know and could think of. 
After getting hold of all my funds, they said they can refund all the amount and issue the full clearance certificate only after investigation of all my accounts is complete. They thanked me for being very cooperative and making their job easy for them without much hesitation and appreciated me for being a good obedient boy. They told me I looked pretty innocent to them based on the conversation and to keep hoping for the best so that I am actually proven to be innocent and said they will call me tomorrow same time post investigation. Told me not to speak to anyone about it and keep my lips sealed and just sit tight and wait patiently for investigation to end and I obliged. Its been several days and I never got any call backs from them. Realized I have been made a nice big fool and got scammed by those crooks.

since then, my friend has informed the bank about the fraud, and reported to cyber crime and filed a report