SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I tried to help someone I thought was a victim, but no luck.
DATE: 2023-07-16
SCORE: 19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/150kht6/i_tried_to_help_someone_i_thought_was_a_victim/

--- POST TEXT ---

This happened a few months ago and I can’t get it off of my mind. There is this vape shop near me that I had been frequenting for a while and they happen to have a bitcoin terminal by the front door. As I went in that day I noticed an old man, sitting in a folding chair (that I can only assume he brought inside) in front of this bitcoin machine, and one of the shopkeepers was seemingly helping him navigate thru the terminal. I made my purchase and went out to the car, and that’s when it hit me: this guy is trying to buy bitcoin, clearly doesn’t know what he’s doing so he asked shopkeeper for help.

I get in the car and begin telling my friend what I saw and what I think is happening “see this old beat up truck parked next to us with the handicap tags and the fold up wheelchair in the back? That man is inside buying bitcoin, has no idea what he is doing, and could very well lose a ton of money in the next few minutes, I have to go do something.” So I go back inside, at this point the shopkeeper is back behind the counter and the old man is the only person I can see in the store, he kinda dadjoke greets me as I enter “back so soon huh?” 

“Sir I’m so sorry to bother you, but are you buying bitcoin right now?”

“Yes I am”

“Did somebody from the internet ask you to buy this for them?”

“Oh it’s ok I know this person”

“Hmm, well then ok. I am a *fraud investigator* and I’m just trying to make sure you aren’t being scammed.”

“Nope I’m good thank you”

*I am not actually a licensed fraud investigator, I just said that because explaining that I watch Scammer Payback &amp; Kitboga wouldn’t have made sense to this guy*

And that’s how it ended. I wanted to continue talking to him but I also didn’t want to make a scene, but looking back I wish I had asked just a few more questions like “is this person claiming to be from Amazon/Microsoft etc”. Not a day has passed that I haven’t thought about this.

Furthermore, upon these months of thinking about the situation I have a new possible hypothesis about the shop itself - I think the whole business might be a front for money laundering. The building is less than 10 years old in a fairly prime location, it was a high end jewelry store before it was the vape shop. I’m going to assume that their rent is somewhere in the $10K-$15K per month range. I used to go there a lot because I lived one block away at the time, I’ve passed by this store every day for several years and there are never more than 2-3 cars in the parking lot and 1-2 of those cars must belong to employees/owners. Everyone I’ve ever seen working there appears Indian, so I assume it’s a family owned/operated company. They mark all of their products up much higher than other shops in the area, and they add a 3.5% fee for all credit card purchases. I mention these things because as an entrepreneur myself I just don’t see how this place is doing the numbers to stay open unless they are doing some shady business practices. 

Now, with all of this said obviously there is nothing I can do for the old man, but I can’t help but want to look into this business. Anyone have any ideas on how to initiate some kind of investigation based on just suspicions?