SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Ex keeps calling my mom asking for me
DATE: 2024-07-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dtha4m/ex_keeps_calling_my_mom_asking_for_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi,

So I(F) was with this guy for approx 2 months, 6 years ago when I was 15 and he was I guess 18. He cheated on me by having indecent conversations with some girl online and he also assaulted one of my friends then( which I got to know about later after our breakup because she was scared to speak up). He then used to ask me for money which I also gave him however much I used to have and he also asked me to send him nudes which I did but not being completely undressed but it has my face. I used to use my mom’s phone number then which is the reason he has it but I changed it after school which he doesn’t have. 

Since then, he has been calling my mom and not saying his actual name and asking for me saying “aunty mai xyz bolraha hu *my name* ka friend, usse baat hosakti h kya?”. Apart from this he also has been constantly texting on my mom’s whatsapp from various different numbers saying “hi”, “how are you aunty” etc. This one time also my mom received a text on whatsapp of someone saying that he took a loan from them and he gave my mom’s number there to pay it back or something. So basically, he has been trying to reach out to me even when he knows that I don’t want to do anything w him or talk or anything but today he called again and said his real name to my mom saying I am her friend and can I talk to her and my mom doesn’t know about him or anything about him and I back then so she said that I am not home and hung up. I am really scared as he is not a good person he is definitely cruel. 

Can anyone please tell me what can I do where can I complain about this without my mom knowing. Is there any online cybersecurity or harassment reporting portals or anything? Can somebody please help me out on this because it’s been years and he pops out these acts any day and I don’t want it to bother my mom anymore.