SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need help to get my money back from a time share travel agency.
DATE: 2025-04-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1jvhiw2/need_help_to_get_my_money_back_from_a_time_share/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was approached by a customer care representative on with the pretext of being invited to a restaurant for a dinner and to collect the vouchers for

1) "Looks Salon" (This was the exact name that the representative mentioned)

2) PVR movie voucher

3) 3N/4D stay at a 4/5 start hotel. When I reached there, I met the salesperson , who welcomed me, filled out a survey form for me, and started asking about the kind of holidays I go to.
Everything was okay until then. He then started explaining to me about the company saying that they would provide me with a stay in a 4/5 start hotel at an affordable cost if I take their package. Salesperson 1 asked me about my holiday plans, and I said I plan to go to "Coorg" in the new year.

He then proceeded to take out his phone and showed me a hotel named "Tamara Coorg" and said "Sir, ye abhi naya hotel hai jo humne time share basis pe liya hua hai agar aap chaho to aap ka holiday yahi ho jayega." During this conversation, Salesperson 2 was standing there listening to all this, and he didn't even care to correct him. Mind you, the price for this hotel ranges from "25000-40000" a night.

He then showed me a list of hotels and resorts on a pamphlet. I asked them to get a list of all the hotels and resorts that they have on a time-share basis, to which Salesperson 2 replied "Sir itne saare hotels and resorts hai saari list nahi hai yaha pe". After this, thinking that I could get a holiday in "Tamara resorts," I purchased the Gold package, paying Rs 209000 out of my pocket. They handed me the voucher for "Looks &amp; Care Wellness," to which I asked, "Aap to Looks Salon ka voucher de rahe the," to which Salesperson 1 cleverly replied, "Nahi, sir hum to yahi wala de rahe hain."

During all this, Salesperson 2 was there, and he did not correct his mistake at once. He participated in selling me a package based on false promises, which resulted in my committing a fraud. After that, I called Tamara Resorts to check if they had any tie-up with Future Choice Hospitality, to which they "Declined."

I tried to book hotel for my Japan trip, and Salesperson 2 showed me the list of hotels available with them. But when I emailed the company to make the reservation they denied me the reservation saying that they don't have any affiliation with any hotels in Japan.

After sending the email and contacting Salesperson 2 to cancel my membership due to this "Misselling," I was contacted by one of the Head customer care representatives of Future Choice Hospitality. I explained everything to him, and he assured me that he would get me the booking at the "Tamara Resorts." All I needed to do was WhatsApp him the details of the resort. I have already sent him the details, but he has not replied for the past two days.

I contacted my RM, and he said that they can't book "Tamara Resorts" as they do not have a time-share contract with them. Salesperson 2 also told me that I will be able to book holidays in December, but when I asked them to provide me the bookings they said that December is the blackout month and they don't do any bookings.

Salesperson 2 also forced me to pay by my credit card, he told me that there will be no cost emi activated on the card but when I looked at my statement huge interest with gst was levied on the transaction. He has stopped responding to me and picking up my call. I have not used any of there services till now and I am asking for the refund but they are not giving me my money back. It’s been months.

I already filed complained in national consumer grievance portal but the company never replied.

What shall I do now? 
Are their any reliable consumer court in delhi whom I can contact?
What would be their cut if I win the case?

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks