SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got fined (bribe) ₹16k for carrying 3 sealed beer bottles for my road trip
DATE: 2025-03-05
SCORE: 151
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1j3ifv3/got_fined_bribe_16k_for_carrying_3_sealed_beer/

--- POST TEXT ---

So this crazy thing happened. I (23M) was going to a place around 50km from my town on a road trip. We were 4 boys (21M, 22M, 20M, 23M). As we were about to enter a forest on our way, we stopped as one of our friend had to pee. Immediately after that we were taking a selfie and about to leave when suddenly a police officer came rushing towards us (he seemed drunk). He asked us why did we stop there (in a very rude way), so we told him. Immediately he started shouting, asking us what's there in our car, and we said he can check it (as we didn't think carrying 3 sealed bottles would be illegal in West bengal). He saw the bottles and started abusing us (said stuff like m@darchod etc.). We were shocked not knowing what was happening. He asked for my car documents so I asked him to check it online as I didn't have the hard copy with me at that time. Then took the car's keys and said he's gonna arrest us and started threatening us, and I was scared because I got my placement recently and after my MBA an arrest could potentially be harmful for my job. This whole thing ran for 3-4 hours, 3-4 HOURS OF PURE HARASSMENT! We were just made to stand there, and he wouldn't even say the exact 'crime' which we had committed. At one point one of us started crying, we were begging him, literally fell on his feet, but nothing. He kept cussing. Another problem was that since it was the start of the forest, the phone signal was very weak and we couldn't call anyone. This whole thing ran for 3-4 hours (a lot of details so I'll just skip it, ask me in the comments if you'd like to know). Finally the other officer (who joined him later) asked us to pay ₹20k but at last came down to 16k. We somehow called our friends, managed 16k. He still took us to the police station, did some documentation. And let us leave. This whole thing was 5 hours.
 I'm really depressed. I am getting flashbacks of the harassment, couldn't sleep. Not to mention the fact that I have to pay back my friends the money I borrowed, which I have no idea how I'll manage. I'm just blank at this point.
P.S: I was driving, I had a drivers license, car was in my name, every document for the car was there (only didn't have the hard copy in my car that that time), both of us in the front seat were wearing a seatbelt, none of us had one ounce of alcohol.
Is there anything that can be done without putting my career in jeopardy?