SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Booked a pop up for my business, but the organizer scammed us. Barely any marketing and crammed space
DATE: 2023-12-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18ubnfs/booked_a_pop_up_for_my_business_but_the_organizer/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I have a small business and like many others I book pop up projects to showcase my items to the community. 

The pricing of these things has become eye wateringly high (eg. Rs. 10k-18k) for a table for one day. Some well known organizers (eg. Namu Recommends) do things like marketing, have a customer base that follows their account and attends their events and these organizers make a point to market the event so there’s a good turnout.

I recently booked Urban Haat because it was at a popular location (Bangalore’s Courtyard Community) but the organizer:

1. Took the payment upfront showing the table size and space in a diagram. The room is tiny, unlit and they’ve overbooked business so it’s super crowded.

2. It’s part of the space they’re in to do some marketing. But the team is SUPER lazy and only posts at midnight exclusively on Instagram. Their posts on LBB was done less than 24hrs before the event. The feature was in lifestyle magazine in new Indian express which was buried in between other things and was basically as low effort as possible

3. They are NOT in Bangalore and have never been upfront about it. They didn’t show up at the event today and then finally let it slip they’re in Calcutta.

The WHOLE group of businesses have demanded a refund and tried calling Urban Haat but they responded saying we’re ruining the vibe (there are no customers, just us businesses) and then sent some people messages saying they’d have to force them to leave.

What is our legal remedy? Some businesses have spent the time making perishable items. So this will result in wasted inventory and the high cost of booking a table with these scammers. 

The cops were called since they crammed us in such a small space and said they didn’t have any responsibility towards us (the gaps for customers to walk is less than 2ft and the room is dark, there’s NO space for us to maneuver). 

We all consider this a scam and have been posting reviews on insta.