SUBREDDIT: r/IndiaInvestments
TITLE: Press release issued by DHFL on the allegations
DATE: 2019-01-29
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/IndiaInvestments/comments/al0xra/press_release_issued_by_dhfl_on_the_allegations/

--- POST TEXT ---

Dear Sirs,
With reference to the captioned subject, please find attached herewith the press release issued by
the Company in respect of the mischievous misadventure by Cobra Post with a mala fide intent to
cause damage to the goodwill and reputation of the Company resulting in erosion in shareholder
value.

------

DHFL is a publicly listed Housing Finance Company and is regulated by the National
Housing Bank and the Securities and Exchange Board of India, amongst other regulators.
This mischievous misadventure by Cobra Post appears to have been done with a mala fide
intent to cause damage to the goodwill and reputation of DHFL and resulting in erosion in
shareholder value.
DHFL today received an email at 8.44 a.m. in the morning, with a follow-up reminder one
hour later, seeking answers to 64 questions from Cobra Post, many of which were laced with
political innuendos. We are shocked and 'surprised to receive this inquiry this morning,
although Cobra Post had announced its press conference last Friday, i.e. 25 January 2019,
to disclose an alleged financial scam. One would have expected as a responsible media
house Cobra Post would have asked these questions during their investigations and not on
the day of the press conference.
. .
Their entire approach raises serious concerns about the motivation of this so-called expose.
It is necessary in public interest that if they believed in the genuineness of their issues to
have given DHFL an opportunity to explain' the facts that are in any case available in the
.public domain.
DHFL is one of the leading and most respected housing finance companies in India with
over RS.1,11,000 crores of assets under management and a large customer based across
the country. Despite the recent liquidity regime, DHFL as a responsible corporate has met all
its obligations to the lenders and has paid back to them in excess of RS.17,OOO crores in the
last three months. DHFL has a strong corporate governance regime a.nd has received AM
credit rating from leading credit agencies. The company is fully tax compliant and its books
are audited by global auditors.
We understand, for the last several weeks, an anonymous note has been making the
rounds with similar defamatory and scurrilous allegations. The real intent of this exercise
appears to be to destabilize the company and the market equilibrium besides hampering our
meeting the on-going obligations. We are also concerned about the timing and the holding of
the press conference before the stock market close and days before the interim budget.
DHFLis a responsible and law-abiding corporate citizen and all loans are disbursed in the
normal course of business in accordance with industry best practices and in compliance with
all regulatory norms. The company's financial statements are submitted to the Stock
Exchanges and are in the public domain.
DHFL and its group companies are confident of meeting any scrutiny on any aspect of our
operations and will pursue these frivolous allegations to its logical conclusion.

----

https://www.bseindia.com/xml-data/corpfiling/AttachLive/9a141cfb-7525-4c9a-a249-bcc19d7f8350.pdf