SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I reported a crime but feel mentally stressed and unsafe
DATE: 2025-04-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1k224z1/i_reported_a_crime_but_feel_mentally_stressed_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a student, from Bihar and i found a job agency about 4 km far from my home, and I have financial issues so I contacted the agency which promised me a part time job with a average pay for a student and I need to register in there for 1500 rupees and aadhar and photo will be submitted. The job was a online work that I will need to do but I needed to visit the agency to register. 

I visited and asked details about job and everything which they clarified there and they claimed that I will be hired from tomorrow morning.
And next morning the manager of agency messaged me that I need to pay 4500 Ruppee extra which wasn't mentioned nor have been told about in any agreement not even in there advertisement.
They daily call me and say that I will need to pay this amount for software and some training practice. I always confront him that as being a student, I can't simply pay this sum of money in just a day and also states that this wasn't written on the agreement that I signed for which he completely dodge or ignore whenever confronted.

Later I searched very deeply online about the agency and i found that this same agency name with same GSTIN is in other state and on Justdial website there is a single comment for that other branch that they charge 1500 and then charge another 4500 out of surprise and give a job online which actually create online advertisement to lure youngsters and student in the name of part time job. This agency has been doing this from years around other states too with all of there other branches. Creating a network of scam to lure youngsters ans students.

Then 3 days later he started to put pressure on me that if I don't pay, i will need to pay the 1500 sum again as it will expire.

I felt very pressured and i wrote a letter with all attached documents like call recording and every evidence I had against him and filed it to cyber police as it felt like mental harassment. They simply don't care if I am student or not, they just want the money anyhow.

I first wanted to report this to the police in local area but the fact that there are 4 police station around 3km radius of that scam agency and they are very confident in exploiting youth/student this openly put my faint in my local police down. I can not believe they are doing this, this open and wide in such area. 

Even though I have filed this on cybercrime mail and website and even NHC (I filed there first because they refused for the 1500 refund and I was unaware of the scam network of the company that time). I feel scared since they have my partial address, name, phone number, whatsapp number and Aadhar number, they don't have my photo. But these given information are already very much that he have about me. And knowing that even 4 police station surrounding the scam center are simply unaware, I feel unsafe about it.