SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Your Cable Company Call Scam
DATE: 2024-07-10
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1e005vw/your_cable_company_call_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have received almost daily calls the past weeks from obvious scammers and I am just wondering in anyone knows more details on the scam? It is the typical Indian sounding person with a western name like John or Robert (I knew an Indian guy born in India who actually was named Jonathan so it does happen, like that was his actual legal name not just what he went by) saying they are calling from "your cable company" and that they need to replace my cable boxes or internet modem because they are no longer compatible. Sadly they always call while I am at work or driving or otherwise unable to waste time fucking with them (used to love messing the with guys calling from Microsoft about my computer having a virus).

Anyway they say they want to send someone to my house to replace the equipment free of charge. I ask them what company they are with and they always say Spectrum which doesn't even offer services in the state I live in. Also we don't even have cable service so yea obviously a scam from the minute they mention that.

The calls all start with dead silence followed by a boop noise and then sometimes it disconnects or I can hear call center type noises and the person starts talking. They usually come from a local area code but occasionally come from out of state area codes.

Just kind of wondering if anyone knows anymore about what they are trying to pull here? Are they just trying to get bank/cc details or is it something more involved? They mentioned sending a technician to my house to swap the equipment which sounds more involved, but also kind of cable company like (the one I used to use usually makes you go to a store to pick-up new equipment or they ship it to you). If they really want to send someone to my house it might be fun to give them my work address since I work at a secure facility with four to six state trooper vehicles parked out front 24/7 ;)