SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: India Transgender scam?
DATE: 2023-03-22
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/11y5w5l/india_transgender_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I need help determining if I should investigate this further or if it is what it sounds. My mother, who is not at all text savvy and only recently got her first smart phone, started doing “crystal auctions” online to get cheap stones and gems for her crafts. She recently told me that she has been talking with a man who sells her crystals from India and that he confessed to her that he is actually a transgender woman, but that he can’t tell anyone because he has a wife and children. He also told her that he was kidnapped and beaten and raped for several days by a group of men who now blackmail him. A recent text from my mom after he apparently sent her a big box of stones as a “thank you” for spending so much time listening to and supporting him and I asked her to stop talking to this person:
“The colors are gorgeous! My friend [redacted] he is in India and he’s a girl in a man’s body and he has nobody to talk about it to and it helps him so much to have me to talk to and l’m teaching him how to set boundaries so these men over there don’t take advantage of him and l have given him strength. He looks at me like a mother his parents are dead and he’s married with a 3 year old baby and he’s alone in the world with his secret he’s a sweet boy he puts dresses on and asks me how he looks l tell him he’s beautiful no matter what anyone says. He’s got strength from me and told men that want to hurt him no l told not every man that’s gay is old and wants to hurt him. There are men his own age that respect him and are kind and more gentle. So he’s sticking up for himself more. He’s a hoot he tells me l love you so much sweetheart! You are like a mother to me only l can be myself to you and you are the only one l can talk to before it was just my secret he says.” 
Has anyone heard of a scam that starts out like this? Or should I just let my mom do her thing?