SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: CPI(M) slams Centre over LPG price hike, demands rollback
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-08
URL: https://theprint.in/india/cpim-slams-centre-over-lpg-price-hike-demands-rollback/2873211/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 8 (PTI) The CPI(M) on Sunday hit out at the government over the steep hike in LPG prices, accusing it of an “anti-people” stance by “refusing” to reduce taxes on cooking gas cylinders.
In a statement issued here, the CPI(M) Politburo expressed strong opposition to the price increase affecting both domestic as well as commercial consumers.
The Left party noted that the Rs 60 hike for domestic cylinders would heavily impact poor beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme.
Show Full Article
“The hike in the prices of commercial cylinders by Rs 114.50 will also ultimately be passed on to the consumers. Together, these will impose greater burdens on middle-class and working people who are already reeling under relentless price rise and shrinking real incomes,” the statement said.
“The refusal to forego revenue from taxes on cylinders exposes the anti-people nature of the government,” it said.
The left party dismissed the government’s reference to the West Asian conflict as a justification for the hike, calling it a “hypocritical attempt” to hide its own responsibility.
“In reality, it reflects the government’s capitulation before the war-mongering policies of the Trump administration and its readiness to serve US global hegemonic interests while ignoring the interests of our country and its people,” it alleged.
The CPI(M) has demanded an immediate withdrawal of the price hike.
Domestic LPG prices were increased by Rs 60 per cylinder on Saturday, making it the second such hike in rate in less than a year. Following the revision, a non-subsidised 14.2-kg LPG cylinder in Delhi costs Rs 913, up from Rs 853, according to the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC).
Over 10 crore Ujjwala Yojana beneficiaries will also face the same increase. They will now pay Rs 613 per cylinder, factoring in the Rs 300 subsidy provided for up to 12 refills annually. The price of a 19-kg commercial LPG cylinder has increased by Rs 114.5. PTI AO AKY
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.