SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Delhi Police arrests engineer-turned-cyber fraud mastermind from Jamtara
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2025-06-18
URL: https://theprint.in/india/delhi-police-arrests-engineer-turned-cyber-fraud-mastermind-from-jamtara/2662235/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Jun 18 (PTI) A mining engineer-turned-cyber crook of the infamous Jamtara cyber fraud syndicate was arrested by the Delhi Police after a coordinated multi-state operation, an official said on Wednesday.
According to police, the accused cheated a Delhi-based woman of Rs 8.10 lakh and purchased seven high-end Apple iPhones and a MacBook via e-commerce platforms.
The accused, Ajay Kumar Mandal, was apprehended following operations carried out across Jharkhand, West Bengal and Mizoram, he said.
Show Full Article
Mandal allegedly defrauded a Delhi-based woman by posing as a bank official under the pretext of KYC verification. Police said the accused tricked the victim into installing a remote-access application which he used to gain control over her mobile phone and transfer funds from her account.
“The cheated money was used to purchase seven high-end Apple iPhones and a MacBook via e-commerce platforms, often using digital vouchers to avoid detection,” said the police officer.
The officer further said despite attempts to cover his digital trail using fake identities, proxy mobile numbers and multiple IP addresses, Mandal was tracked through IP logs, SIM activity and IMEI tracing by the cyber forensic team.
“A breakthrough came when investigators identified two suspicious mobile numbers operating simultaneously from Giridih in Jharkhand. After investigation, the accused was arrested and one iPhone bought from the stolen funds was recovered from his possession,” he said.
Mandal, a diploma holder in Mining Engineering, was the main executor of this fraud module and is well-versed in technical manipulation and digital concealment. The investigation is ongoing and more recoveries and arrests are expected, police said. PTI BM BM KSS KSS
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.