SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Vijay alleges conspiracy in Karur tragedy, says he too wants justice
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/vijay-alleges-conspiracy-in-karur-tragedy-says-he-too-wants-justice/2895169/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Tiruchirappalli (Tamil Nadu), Apr 2 (PTI) TVK chief Vijay on Thursday alleged joint machination and conspiracy in the tragic stampede in Karur and also in the release of his final film ‘Jananayagan,’ and said that he too wanted justice in the Karur incident.
The tragic stampede left 41 people dead and several injured at a rally addressed by the actor-politician on September 27, 2025.
Addressing an election rally after filing his nomination papers from Tiruchirappalli East Assembly constituency, Vijay said, as many have been insisting, the Karur incident was “a joint machination.” “I, who have come to ask justice for you, also want justice,” the Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam chief said and also claimed a conspiracy over the release of his last film Jananayagan.
Show Full Article
He flayed both the Centre and the state governments on the LPG cylinder shortage and said both the governments could have averted the crisis had they planned ahead and regulated.
“Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin air dashes to Delhi if there’s a raid or some issue in the family. Has he rushed to the national capital to resolve the LPG cylinder crisis?” Vijay asked and said the unpreparedness has led to a shortage of gas cylinders, leading to the closure of tea shops and even hotels.
“This has caused hardship and losses to many. Had they been vigilant and taken precaution then the crisis would not have escalated. Both are responsible for this,” he said.
In a lighter vein, he remarked, if one asked “Stalin sir” about this crisis, he would say it has no connection whatsoever. “But if there’s a raid or problem in his house, then he would fly to Delhi,” Vijay said, and the crowd cheered at the remark.
He appealed to the people not to believe the DMK or BJP as both were on the same page. These parties should be rejected. People should support the TVK by giving it a chance, he said at the poll campaign in TN.
Mounting a scathing attack on the ruling DMK dispensation, Vijay accused the DMK of forming “cash box alliance” (gallapetti kootani) and “illegitimate ties with others” and was opposing him.
It made several promises in the 2021 Assembly election, including a gas cylinder subsidy of Rs 100, MSP of Rs 4,000 to sugarcane farmers, one kg sugar extra and urad dal to the people through the fair price shops and even assured to abolish NEET. The Chief Minister made promises that he could not fulfill and thereby deceived the people, Vijay alleged and labelled the government as “useless and corrupt.” The DMK was getting geared up with its next set of false promises, he added. He would not make false promises or deceive the people, but would act according to people’s needs.
“As I have been saying, the poll battle is only between TVK and DMK. Our primary focus will be education, ration, health, drinking water, amenities including improving amenities in government-run schools, and transportation,” he said and recalled the TVK’s poll assurances of six free LPG cylinders to women, one sovereign gold and a silk saree to young women for their marriage, among other election assurances.
In Tiruchirappalli, a DMK minister was involved in cash for jobs scam and the amount accounted to a staggering Rs 1,000 crores in the municipal administration department alone. “Imagine the size of the amount from other departments. What shall we do to this DMK government for the job scam, lack of safety and amenities in the state? Shall we throw it out?” he asked and the crowd replied with a loud “yes.” He claimed that “Stalin Sir Tax – SST – was levied and it was similar to GST. “We will be hundred per cent fair in administration and deliver our promises. You can trust me. Give me a chance (to form the government),” Vijay appealed.
Two women who attended Vijay’s campaign fainted and a policeman sustained injuries in his leg when a car of TVK leader accidentally knocked him during the TVK founder’s roadshow earlier in the day, police said.
The constable, identified as Satish, was deployed for security during Vijay’s roadshow. The TVK cadres carried him from the spot and admitted him to a hospital, the police official said.
The two women fainted near the MGR statue where Vijay addressed the poll rally, unable to bear the intense heat, the police official said. While one of them was revived by the party members, the second was admitted to a medical facility.
Her condition was stable, police said. PTI JSP JSP ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.