SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Has anyone experienced a possible taxi scam in Bangalore? I think I had a near miss today!
DATE: 2021-04-07
SCORE: 568
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/mlo3ra/has_anyone_experienced_a_possible_taxi_scam_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Taxi was booked via UBER app from airport to my stay location (at around 0130 hrs this morning)

As soon as booking was confirmed, I had a PIN on my phone screen. I was supposed to walk to any of the specific car type which I had selected, tell them the PIN and my ride starts.

The following are slightly unusual things that I observed:

1) Within the short span of maybe 2-3 mins when I was navigating in the app trying to figure out which car type costs how much, I was approached by 3 different individuals posing to be UBER drivers. Each wanted me to cancel the booking on app (and hence avoid the waiting time for the matched driver to show up and instead just go with then and pay them the same fare as shown in the app. I declined, but it made me think why this sort of an offer was being made?

2) The driver who was assigned automatically via the app, he asked me what was my destination and the mode of payment via which I intended to pay. I told him the area and also that I was going to do an online payment. **After** luggage etc was loaded and I was seated and ready to start the ride, he asked me to cancel the existing ride and request for a new ride. I asked "Why?" He explained that he wanted me to pay in Cash and no via online mode. I asked him why he hasn't asked me this before? Also, I really didn't have so much cash in my pocket. 

3) I continued with the ride from driver mentioned in point 2. During the ride, he said that the car is really low on fuel and that he needs to refuel and so if I can pay for the fuel (Rs 500) now, he will adjust this with the final invoice amount. Again, I declined and told him that he needs to figure out on his own how he should fuel and for how much, I am not going to be involved in that transaction. (**NOTE - HE NEVER ACTUALLY FUELED THE CAR, despite saying initially that the car was so low on gas)

4) Enroute, the taxi driver said that one of his friends is finished with work shift and *co-incidentally* the friend had to travel in the same direction as me, so, he wanted his friend to tag along if it was ok for me. Yet again, I told him that this was not possible and that he should stop asking me these things...

I reached home safe, paid the taxi bill online and everything was ok, but these things have been playing in my mind in a loop and I am wondering if anyone here has any similar experience? Are these scams?