SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How to report a scam in dating for fraudulent purposes?
DATE: 2024-03-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1brcfmq/how_to_report_a_scam_in_dating_for_fraudulent/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a south asian and I was dating a white girl from Las Vegas for over a year. I met this girl in the most unexpected way and was very excited about this relationship as it developed over time. This girl was raised catholic but due to her abusive childhood, she did not have good background. She was two times divorced, had multiple partners over the years and used to do drugs and attend rave desert parties. All these details were shared by her overtime and not when we met. With so many things in her life, one thing led to another and she was introduced to Hindu culture which she was silently following until we met. Though she never knew anything about Hinduism except some random YouTube videos, she knew Indians are easy going people and easy to trick around since she was aware her face and her fake nature were her biggest selling point.

Overtime, as we became close, she knew she had hit a jackpot and would mention it to me casually which was very pathetic to even hear. Her education credentials were absolutely mediocre (went to cosmetology school) but she faked she is learning programming and works at ML company doing data and ML to trap me into this relationship. She would give fake dreams about having kids, moving out of US to support my parents, etc. Everything she would speak would be to prove how real and authentic she is when all was pure lies and fakeness.

&amp;#x200B;

After a few months of being together, she had to go through a tough phase in her life due to a life changing event and I tried my best to support her by giving her all the mental, emotional and monetary support I could since we were in a LDR. She created a GoFund me page for fake expenses just to get some money issues sorted out while she was unemployed. With this loneliness of being away and her mom's abusive approach when she was with her during the cancer treatment, she secretly met another guy (Indian) and tried to use his support while she continued to talk to me and keep the love alive. She wanted to marry before her mom passes away so she would do anything to trick and make happen the next steps. I started becoming super suspicious of her nature when I visited home to inform my parents and I had realized she was already cheating big time.

&amp;#x200B;

Today she visits the Hindu temple in Las Vegas under the pretext of meditation but her goal is to catch attention of Indian men so she could get some emotional and financial support and enjoy some companionship overtime. She had a fake page created on Instagram to prove her Hindu beliefs which she changed the username twice and deleted all the pictures after I found her cheating and purpose to trap Indian men when I informed her. She even deleted her LinkedIn profile to avoid being noticed. Her name is "Gaylene XXXXXXX" with all the fake details deleted from Instagram profile being "pinkhindu" but uses fake things everywhere to trap guys.

&amp;#x200B;

How do I report this person for scam &amp; fraud? I am sure this person is the biggest scam and now is in the process of fake marrying one more Indian for money and support because her mom is concerned she won't be able to live alone.

&amp;#x200B;

Anyone can guide?