SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Today evening, my wife started threatening me with suicide and verbally and mentally abused me. Need urgent tips.
DATE: 2023-08-16
SCORE: 193
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15swxo0/today_evening_my_wife_started_threatening_me_with/

--- POST TEXT ---

I won't be able to write down a lot, my mind is racing, but here's some context and history:

1. My wife and mom didn't have the best relationship but till now it was amicable. My mom has gone to her native for some function, and video called me today to talk and show other uncles and aunts there. This is what triggered it. My wife is of the view that I should not entertain her much.
2. She has had history of depression, obsession and personality disorder. I have always been supportive of her mental health. When she is not Dr. Hyde, she is amicable. But at moments like today, she loses sense of what is right and wrong, loses sense of all reasoning. It reached extreme levels today.
3. This behaviour is something which has occurred multiple times, never this bad like today. I have tried talking to her, therapy, but nothing is working.
4. Fast forward to today, when she saw I was talking to my mom, she started shouting non-stop for 2 hours, then demanding that I call my mom and abuse her verbally. When I refrained from doing the same, she started insulting me and my mo (regular occurrence), and then threatning with suicide. When I tried to calm her down, and put on hand on her mouth so that she calms down, she bit me. She also pushed me and was being aggressive unless I call my mom to verbally abuse her. One thing to note is, that the verbal abuse towards me and my mom has been a regular occurrence.
5. I called her family, but they refused to help. They themselves have complicated family dynamics, so her mom knowingly didn't inform anyone else this is happening, even when i called and begged her to come to my place to calm her daughter down.
6. As of now she has calmed down a bit, and is in another room. She has blackmailed me to not use my phone \[hence using a laptop\], otherwise she will make false accusations against me and my mom.

&amp;#x200B;

I ask this sub, what are my options now? I have some proof already of chats, messages, a few video and voice recordings. Today's behaviour has pushed me over the limit and it feels this isn't repairable.

I would want like to start divorce proceedings, so please advise me the next steps. 

Edit 1: People are thoughtfully suggesting therapy for her. Well, she has already been under psychiatric evaluation (that's how I know about **depression, obsession and personality disorder).** Recently she started on some new meds, but stopped because she felt it had adverse effects. The thing is, she relies quite a lot on her side of family's advice (they have a hell lot of doctors). I find his acceptable too. But her mother has become a gatekeeper to her communication with other members of the family. Her mother (although a good person) downplays her mental issues, and tells her to stop or start meds on her own wish. I have repeatedly told her to consult with other family members (who are actually the doctors), but she trusts her mom a tad bit too much (huh, ironical, isn't it?). Long story short, this is hindering her proper treatment, and she won't listen to me, and I have no support from her family that there are real issues which need treatment.