I didn't do any ECS submissions on the Stashfin app for loans. I applied for 10000 and 2000 INR, but it failed. My phone was hacked and hasn't worked since then; no one has contacted me to help me. This app is cheating me and not giving me the required amount. Now send an email for the ESC notice. What's it, and when did I do it? Do not harass me again and again. Your agents were continuously harassing me many times. I am very poor, and I don't have any jobs. I have a financial problem. I don't have any money to pay the loan dues. When I have money, I will pay the amount that I get. When I applied for a loan from the Stashfin app, I saw I was not eligible for a loan, and after that, the Stashfin agent continued to call me and misbehave with me, still sending me messages to pay the loan dues, but I showed that there were credit line code errors (LOC_001). Don't continuously blackmail me. Then I also complain about StashFin customer support is not getting any appropriate notification about the loan application errors. On the Stashfin app, I found a transfer error when I tried to transfer funds in my account, showing error codes (101 and 301). I have never received it, despite the fact that I required 10, 000 rupees. That time, no one helped me get a loan. But your agent is calling me again and again and demanding payment of the loan. But I didn't receive the required amount. Why does your loan app send un-required amounts without any notice, loan sanction letters, or loan confirmation letters? I don't have money. When I have money, then I pay. I did not receive my applied amount. When I used this app, it hacked my mobile. Then I can't control my device, and it automatically switches off. The last time I saw the loan application status, it failed. Why did I receive any amount without any further discussion? Why does this app send money without any further discussion? But I am unable to pay. Because I have no money now. When I have money, I will pay. I am preparing to obtain a PhD and have a job interview presently. Please kindly do not disturb me by phone again and again. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)