SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Am I done for good?
DATE: 2025-03-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1jeq3qc/am_i_done_for_good/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’m from Chennai - I hold a salary account with HDFC (home branch is Kerala).
On the 26th of Feb, I noticed 3 unusual transactions on my account for ₹1000, ₹3000 and ₹3500 each. It took place at exactly 12:07pm, and the weird thing is, the transactions were exactly 15 seconds apart from each other. I checked my messages and emails, there were no OTPs asked! The money was just straight up debited from my account. The confirmation emails for each transactions pointed that my DEBIT CARD (that I had it on me the whole time) was used to make these payment, and the money went to one MAHESH BHATI as per the email.

I was at office during the time I noticed these transactions, which was about 12.15pm, and as soon as I understood I was defrauded, I contacted the fraud helpline number and blocked every service to my account. My debit and credit cards were permanently blocked, while all other services had a temporary no debit restriction added.

A case was raised on the same call, and they said a proper resolution would be given within a month. I also proceeded to raise a complaint with the cyber cell and got an acknowledgement number with it. I submitted the online dispute form the very next day, with the transactions IDs and the cybercrime case ID.

Upon further checking with one of the branches in Chennai, they confirmed that the transactions were POS (Point of Sale) in nature and that it took place at Jaipur, Rajasthan. However, I was here in Chennai and I promise you that never in my life had I once visited Rajasthan, nor had I handed over my card to anybody that I knew. How could someone use my card, while I had it in possession, and that too at a different location?

Now coming back to the case, I just got it resolved with this response: 

Dear Mr.,

Kindly note the Unique reference number for this correspondence is.

We value your relationship and thank you for banking with us.

We take this opportunity to update you on your complaint regarding transactions done on 26/02/2025 amount of Rs.7500/- using your Debit Card number ending with.

We would like to inform you that as per bank investigation, the disputed transactions have taken place at a merchant location and that the said disputed transactions cannot take place unless the Debit Card is physically swiped at the POS terminal located at the merchant location.

Based on above information provided, the liability for the said transactions lies with the customer.

We also wish to inform you that your case has been reviewed by our Bank's Internal Ombudsman appointed as per instructions from the Reserve Bank Of India. In line with our focus and commitment to Customer Service, we trust the issue has been resolved to your satisfaction.

I couldn’t understand how they have mentioned it as customer liability, while I have not provided any sort of consent, whatsoever, to these transactions.

I’ve argued otherwise and the bank has now raised another case on the same issue. I doubt their response would differ. I’ve further dropped an email to the GRO mentioned in this email with all possible proof I could gather to show I had no part in these transactions. Now how cooked am I guys, and, is there any chance I get my money back? Are there any other procedures I should do so I could have a higher chance in retrieving the lost money?