SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: UPDATE: Auto driver tried to kidnap Christ student
DATE: 2024-03-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1blw1rt/update_auto_driver_tried_to_kidnap_christ_student/

--- POST TEXT ---

A few days back, I posted about the incident where two auto drivers tried to kidnap a student of Christ University, Bannerghatta Campus.

Two days after this incident, another incident has been reported. A girl left her PG at 7 PM for an evening walk alone. When she was passing from the footpath in front of the Christ University's campus, an auto came from behind suddenly stopped beside here, groped one of her breasts and ran away. She was so shocked and devastated, she somehow gathered to courage to get up and move. Few metes ahead she went to an area where some autos were parked and drivers were there. 

She took picture of one auto she suspected to be the one, then suddenly two auto drivers came out and started harassing her, forcing her to delete the picture she has taken in her phone. Argument happened, they were dominating her, under pressure she deleted the photographs and turned to move her home. 

When she was walking away, same auto came behind her, hit her hard on the buttocks and ran away. This is unimaginable. There's nothing - female safety is a joke, its' getting hard for women to survive here.

Fast forward, she took the courage to stood up for herself, went to police station, tried to file an FIR, Christ University also tried to help initially, there were cameras in entry/exit of campus that recorded everything, CBI got involved. Within four days she had to went police station multiple times, where once Police called her to identify the accused that they suspect to be the one. She identified him, and then his wife came and started saying to her to forgive him as he was intoxicated at that time. These four days were really difficult for her, anybody could have been devastated, and she's a girl all alone here (a final year master's student). 

Now what's shocking is, the police tried to white wash themselves. They manipulated her and asked her to not file the FIR because they said if FIR is filed then there will be lot of work to do, she will have to come to police station a lot, also go to court and what not. And we know the legal system, no one's can fight with it. But she was still trying to fight. Now the worst part, the police related the attemp-to-kidnap incident that happens few days back to her, and mentally harassed her a lot. They asked her why did she put up the stories when they girl wasn't even kidnapped? Their saying was, "They were trying to kidnap but she wasn't, then why did you put up the story? This is a cyber crime of spreading the misinformation, you can go to jail for this" and what not. 

Please note that she didn't even put a single story but they were pressurizing her and trying to let out their frustration on her. Then they forced her to write a letter saying "She wasn't kidnapped and all this is a lie." And she actually had to do it, because she had no other choice. And they took it as an evidence that nothing related to kidnapping ever happened, and it's just misinformation. 

Understand this, they tried to whitewash what happened earlier with this, and took a letter from her that nothing that sort of happened to make sure they aren't blamed for anything. Moreover, by this time Christ University also stopped helping her, didn't support her to file the FIR and that seems obvious because they don't want the college's reputation to go for a fall, and police also doesn't want to make this matter public because they have to be answerable why something like this is happening under their control. It's a win-win for both of them. 

But now what about the girl? She had the courage to fight, but no one supported her. All just want their reputation to be protected but what about the wounds that this incident has left on her. I wrote this in short to make the post readable, but when we were listening to her, we cried bro, seriously we did. She is devastated. The letter that police asked her to write as an apology about that misinformation, they also forced her to put that up on her social accounts, which she did. And now she gave up. She gave up to this BS society, for which I am ashamed of. She accepted her fate and said its just one month remaining for her to complete her masters, and then she will leave this place and will never return. 

But what about other girls in the college? This will keep repeating to them, and someday someone will not be fortunate enough to leave this place. And from her own perspective it seems legit now, because she did try to stand up for herself, she was constantly going to police station to Dean, every one but at the end it was just her who will need to go to police station, court, etc everyday that she cannot do. 

I am ashamed of this, ashamed of me, and cannot do anything but just wonder where is this going. I hope maybe someday at some point of time, women can live peacefully without these retards gazing their eye on women as if they are their meal.