SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Hi3 Technologies posing as Microsoft. Has anyone else had any experience with these scammers?
DATE: 2021-06-04
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/nsa9oj/hi3_technologies_posing_as_microsoft_has_anyone/

--- POST TEXT ---

I haven’t found anything on Reddit about this predatory “company” but has anyone here ever heard of them? They are based in India and pose as Microsoft technicians in order to try and convince people that they can help to update/renew their subscriptions for their Microsoft products. They call from either Hi3 Technologies itself when they’re lazy, or they call from a VPN that shows their location as California. They instruct the “customer” to download programs that allow them to take remote control of the person’s computer and track keystrokes (presumably to get username/password to email, bank account, etc). They try to elicit the information from the person on the phone to "help log in", but if it fails then they will try and gain the information from the keystroke tracking/screen monitoring (but if you hang up, they will call 20+ times and say they’re there to help and just need some more information). Both sets of my grandparents have fallen victim to this, but it was caught just in time before any sensitive information was divulged to the scammers. It required a full cleanse of the computers to make sure none of the scammer’s software was still infecting the computer. It’s a shame because it appears that they target older populations because of their vulnerability and unfamiliarity with many aspects of their computers.

Additionally, my entire family tried to post negative reviews of this “company” on Google to warn others, but they’ve deleted each and every comment. They currently have 4.8/5.0 stars on Google and the reviews (5 of them) are clearly fabricated. It seems like these scammers really try hard to scrub the internet of any negativity that draws attention to their predatory ways. (if you want to leave a negative Google review and watch it magically disappear, it’s listed as Hi3 Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and it is located at Plot No - 21B, Ground Floor, Udyog Vihar Phase V, Gurugram, Haryana 122001, India)

Maybe they aren’t as far reaching as I think they are, but I wanted to warn anyone that comes to the r/scams page and sees this. This is an amazing community and everyone should be aware of the countless scams that are out there, so I just want to do my part. 

I’d love to know if anyone else has had any run-ins with these predators. Stay safe out there everyone, and always check in on your older, vulnerable family members to make them aware of possible scams!