SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Needed advice on and old sale deed
DATE: 2022-01-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/sfjyuh/needed_advice_on_and_old_sale_deed/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, I sold my bike in Pune 4 years back. I had filled out the appropriate forms, I don't remember the exact RTO form numbers. But I knew the correct procedure, as I had bought the bike myself and gotten the RC transferred to me. Now one of the issues with our RTO system is the buying party needs to take those signed forms and submit in RTO. 

I knew this, but I had no choice as I was leaving the city and had to sell the bike, one of the other issues is our fucking RTO system asks us to re-register the bike in New city if its a different state. Now the laws might have changed. 

I knew I didn't have any control over the person buying it, so to protect myself, I took photographs of the signed forms and photograph of his aadhar card. 

That asshole as I thought didn't register the bike, and 4 years later is calling me saying he lost the papers and asking me to send him pan/aadhar's photograph of mine with signature, that's massive and can be used for other stuff. Its been 4 years old matter, now I told him, I will absolutely not do it as its risky for me, I don't know what he might use it for, but he kept on harassing, so I blocked his cell. 

I still have those xeroxes and photographs, I want to know what should I do in this scenario, bike holds absolutely no value to me. What legal issues I potentially might face ?

Update 1

The person has increased his call frequency and now reaching out via various channels whatsapp, text. I also found photocopies of the signed form 29 and his self attested aadhar photograph and RC of the bike in my name. 
Now I am really sick and tired of his digital harassment. Legally I know he can't do shit, because I haven't done anything wrong, he has my bike, and RC and I have a digital proof of transaction. So he can't register anything against me on any grounds. 

Still I consulted with Police and they told me to not worry as I had form 29 filled and signed. But they couldn't register a stolen bike complaint as I am sitting in another state. So, If I want to further ensure my protection then I need to do a stolen bike report in Pune. Which I did online and have a copy of it. If there is any lawyers here can please have a look and help me if I need to do anything else ?