Asslavalkum Dear Trade Travel Companies in Travel Industries as well as in Travel and Tourism Sectors, Domain Airlines, Travel Industries, Banking Domain, those who had put reviews in the consumer complaint in their respective countries [https://www.consumercomplaints.in/?search=tpconnects] is 1000 Million (%) percentage correct and accurate about the fraudster companies like below all the truth about this companies, supported partners, investors, travel agents, airlines, travel agencies. Biggest Online Scam scandal OTT Scam by TPC – 1 Arab Million Crime by the Companies TPCONNECTS, NDCMARKETPLACE.COM in Middle East UAE / Kerala. They steel and took a ideas from the TAAI & UFTTA and they made TAAICONNECTS.com and UFTTACONNECTS.com for couple of years and now they made their own association with the KERALAPRAVASIASSOCIATION.com making fool and many people posted in their facebooks comments like how many killers are their in the KPAs etc. biggest Kerala Scam association in Kerala-INDIA and making fools with Pravasi Travels. Be aware of the following fraudster companies from middle east and Asia TPConnects, NDCMarketplace.com, pravasitravel.com. keralapravasiassociation.com, Arabiatravelnews recently purchase the domain and making fool to others and staging that established since from 2012. All advertising of TPCONNECTS & NDCMARKETPLACE.com. Below is the link you can see the fraud company lists of fraud work and other people who had put a case on this firms, culprit people and managements https://www.consumercomplaints.in/?search=tpconnects We just want to informed you that in travel Industries with the name T P CONNECTS TECHNOLOGIES LLC |TPCONNECTS | TP CONNECTS | TPCONNECTS TECHNOLOGIES LLC | TP CONNECTS TECHNOLOGIES LLC | KERALA PRAVASI ASSOCIATION | PRAVASI TRAVELS | NDCMARKETPLACE.COM | TAAICONNECTS | LULU TRAVELS & TOURISM, UFTTACONNECTS and From Saudi two companies in Travel & Tourism with the name Zeeyarah Superior Travel & Tourism as well as Flyazmeel (Azmeel International Agency for Travel & Tourism ) No1 Fraudster companies in the middle east and Asia and TWAI who is a part of Airline Technologies and supported partners of TPCONNECTS, recently one more partner of TPCONNECTS XML OUT company with the name TECHONHEAVEN, I think they will put you to in heaven only, if you join this fraudster companies in travel industries. Arabiatravelnews (https://arabiatravelnews.com/) which is hosted by T P Connects Technologies LCC sharing the information of Zeeyarah, Sallu Chandran Pilla, & IATA guys by Yanik Hoyles to make promo by this fraudster companies T P Connects, you can see no contact details mention on this travel news. Even Rajendran is promoting this Arabia Travel news when you see its mention Established in 2012. Many website they made and closed/ shutdown/ dissolve it and now making fool with this website (https://arabiatravelnews.com/) hosting in Bahrain and showing from Bangalore by Sallu Chandran Pillal she join last month in June who is part of TPC Fraudster companies even I can see from IATA many people are their slave of T P Connects when T P Connects say on any post this IATA Director Yanik Hoyles is liking the post of this baster post and company pages promoting this TPC, many people from IATA and by the Director Henry from IATA or IATA members are merge with TPCONNECTS. IATA Team is a slave (Chacma) of TPC I think so, all IATA Team and TPCONNECTS are doing crime in the TRAVEL INDUSTRIES, when TPCONNECTS Say, IATA will be ready to help them – be-aware of this TPCONNECTS Most of this TPCONNECTS website you can see contact details etc. because if they though some one can reached to this companies and they business goes away, I can see many sites of their NDC they had not mentions their details of the clients’ sites. just to warm all doing a biggest online scam a crime this people are not mention on this kind of websites. GULF AIR VIKAS MANAR is in living relationship with Aswani Nambarambath and making fool to real wife and children’s, what an anti-piece Aswani every one Mallie love and want to keep a relationship (sleep and earn money ) in one night stand they will do it, that why making fool to other people and posting in media and social media and even CEO of TPCONNECTS Rajendran he in love with Aswani that why where ever she goes Rajendran will be behind or beside it. Example when they had a Blood Donation camp in Dubai – Aswani was front and Rajendran was behind, even in Kerala Pravasi Association, Aswani is a secretary their – Rajendran lovely secretary and vice president of KPA staying together and working together in UAE, that make a new business plan with the sex-sexy and second-hand ladies in the TPCONNECTS offices. Even though cunning managements of tpconnects all making fools to their respective wife’s. & In UAE they having relationship with office staff. One of the worst companies with all these relations, even though they will go for outing separately and silent. Other never come to know and in front of others clients, customer, vendor they show that they are good people. Here is the proof attached in social media Many people across the world had lost many things and many travel companies exits from this fraudster companies ended up the contract etc. several Airlines are in Traps by this fraudster companies T P CONNECTS etc. all this firm abbreviation you can remember every eyer this fraudster companies are changing name and changing the companies’ pages names in social media etc. Hope 2 Years Back when Oman Air, Air Mauritius, AIR France, Flight Centre, Sri Lankan Airlines, SaudiGulf and Saadia achieved NDC by this company TPC this firm put the name TPCONNECTS now they put the Changing name TPCONNECTS TECHNOLOGIES LLC or T P CONNECTS TECHNOLOGIES LLC, now with new website NDCMARKETPLACE.COM, you can see this firm’s cheating from one stage to another stage. Even though KERALA PRAVASI ASSOCIATION and Pravasi Travels belong to Monu Philips and he is employee of TPCONNECTS since from 7 months he is an Business Development operations from TPCONNECTS and Kerala Pravasi Association, this firm is stolen the ideas from other companies and making it not, and some of the association in the past they had merge and cheated to this association like Travel Agent Association (TAAI) also known as TAAICONNECTS (https://taaiconnects.com) as well as UFTTACONNECTS (https://ufftaconnects.com), merging with the LULU Travel Groups now this companies started making fraudster booking platform in the middle east and from Kerala Pravasi Associations(KPA). If you have money and you want to spent of this fraudster companies you can do it, you will get trap with money launderings, fraudster work given by this groups of companies in the travel industries. Some of the website made by these firms and fraudster gangs’ scandal like Otalty.com, Toursworlds.com, FS6.com ihala.com, many mobile applications and many websites had been dissolved by this group of fraud peoples. 1.	TP CONNECTS TECHNOLOGIES LLC also known as TPConnects / TPCONNECTS TECHNOLOGIES LLC 2.	NDCMARKATPLACE.COM 3.	Zeeyaraha.com 4.	T2RL (Europe) 5.	Access One (TWAI) - Airline Technologies 6.	IATA (some of the IATA members are taking bribe and also helping this fraudster companies to do more crimes in the worlds, IATA also know much of this fraudster companies TPC much as I mention in the list 7.	TAAICONNECTS 8.	UFFTACONNECTS 9.	LULU Travels & Tourism 10.	Kerala Pravasi Association (KPA) 11.	 Pravasi Travels 12.	Flyazameel (Azmeel International Agency for Travel and Tourism) 13.	Travelfusion group is a part of tpconnects you can see where ever is travelfusion there is TPC 14.	Travelfusion and tpconnects made fool to the Emirates Airlines and other airlines 15.	 Otravelo by Rajendran Vellapalath 4th girlfriends Juilet Ann Vergresh along with 3rd girlfriend and 2nd wife Aswani Nambarambath COO together can make this companies grow in day and night together can they sleep together in one room make a future business planning. 16.	 Shalu Chandran with new girlfriend of George Rajan and she is from the news editors from https://aribatravelnews.com 17.	 NDCMarketplace.com to revolutionise NDC booking process for travel industry stakeholders. 18.	Most of the content took from the Amadeus, Sabre, Travelport, Farelogix and other companies… all this firm is stolen the content and making as if their own contents and putting in the websites as of their owns. 19. Rickshaw Travels from Tanzania by the Director Ajay recently like the post of Rajendran Vellapalath & TPCONNECTS and even Farelogix also help this fraudster company internally some of the fare Logix employees sharing the information to the tpc, 2 people from Etihad Airways join the TPCONNECTS and sharing the information of the Etihad airlines, 6 Employee from emirates join this tpconnects and sharing the information of the Emirates airlines, even you can see none of the booking can be done from this TPCONNECTS who are taking the accessing and business from this fraudster companies. ONLINE BOOKING SCAMs and looting the money of the travelers and customers. One of the worst platform and fraudster platform OTT Fraud Scams 20. if you are liking and following this fraudster companies, your connection are following and making the followers to a fraud companies, if you stop following and discontinue to follow this companies, hope you will not get in trap – monitoring gain the followers and focusing to put good reviews in google, glass door other social networking and social media. Most of the fraudster tpconnects supporters and clients and many airlines, suppliers’ vendors came out from a such a [censored] and fraudster booking platform. No booking but your money will be cut from your accounts by this fraudster companies- behind the seams this firm is stolen the money and make a blame to the travel agencies, travel agencies they will get a access from this fraudster companies as I mention above. Most of them are getting trap by this fraudster companies’ gang, fraud booking scandal business online running in the middle east and Asia and in US by (Eastern Airlines). Luz Aydee Torres Gomes from Avianca Airlines & Nicola Ping from FLIGHT CENTRE who is also helping this fraudster companies because they had a “one night stand sleep during the business deals with (TPCONNECTS CEO & CFO or CTO & SVP) “ with the CEO Rajendran Vellapalath, CTO Praveen Kumar, SVP George Rajan, CFO – Vaidyanathan Vaidyalingam ( if you can all tpconnects girls for a one nights they will come with you guys and this is famous in Dubai – UAE (for money everything is possible for this tpconnects girls gangster scandal ) you can see her this famous girls and tpconnects companies are liking their post each other’s. Some of the website made by these firms and fraudster gangs’ scandal like Otalty.com, Toursworlds.com, FS6.com ihala.com, many mobile applications and many websites had been dissolved by this group of fraud peoples. Recently month arabiatravelnews website created by the tpconnects firm and they purchase domain from Bahrain Saudi and the details by salu chandran pilla showing from Bangalore. this is biggest criminal by this kind of fraud gang and groups of people associated with this firms. and removed it to make fool in travel industries https://www.consumercomplaints.in/tpconnects-ndcmarketplace-tpconnects-ndcmarket... ⇄ Together can shape the revolution of the travel business with fraud work, if you want to lost the money, please kindly join this fraudster, money laundering companies in middle east. if you give up, you have given up on this fraud companies, open your eyes and do cases register on this firm even 100 AED/ 1000 USD also is very important in life... if you give up then you are the worst and scared person who are helping this fraudster companies like above and helping to do more crime in travel market. no one can harm us we are NO1. all people are in travel industries, suppliers, customer are slaves to help this fraudster companies. Existing employees if you are not put a cases on TPCONNECTS, what this fraudster managements saying to the clients big giants and making fool to them, that due to the employees not working properly in the office that why tpconnects system is bit doing fraud work, they are blaming to previous employees & staff- are you a slave, servant to them, open your eyes and register a cases on them soon, enough helping this fraudster company to grow and make fool in travel industries. Yours well wishers Tariq Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)