SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Olx buyer sent me potential scam money
DATE: 2024-05-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1d51n6k/olx_buyer_sent_me_potential_scam_money/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had put up an ad on olx to sell my iPhone 13 for 36k. A buyer contacted me and we met. They were not from the main city, they came from outskirts (100km away from my location), and that too by a car. There were 3 of them and when i met them, all three were busy talking on call and from what I could figure out, they were planning to meet other people too. And while all this, I noticed that they have 5-6 phones, and discussing bank account numbers and also receiving large sums of money (40-50k), which I could see from their phone's notification. They were behaving and talking in a very suspicious manner. 

1. While negotiating, one guy was saying that he isn't buying to resell, he's buying to use it. (Even though I never asked that and it didn't even matter to me). And the other guy told my brother (who was with me) that they are in the business of this. 

2. When I had asked them for live location when they were coming, they said they didn't use whatsapp. But they had 5-6 phones which they were continously using, how come they don't use WhatsApp? Or perhaps they are using temporary sims and don't use whatsapp from that. At one point I had to share my Google maps location link with them before meeting, and they texted me on WhatsApp from a number (named Ibrahim), whose name I saw on their ongoing call, when they were talking about bank accounts. So Ibrahim wasn't even one of the 3 guys who met me. 

3. When paying, they paid in two installments. 20k and 16k. And the bank account's name was a Hindu name. Whereas they were all Muslims. At this point, I realised that something fishy is going on. 

4. I asked them for a valid document because I was selling my phone to them, and they weirdly denied and said their phone number is enough. 

So I think the money they paid me was potentially scam money, and they were just trying to convert it into cash, by purchasing phone from me and selling it in the market for cash. I've had similar experience in the past where someone paid me scam money, and my whole bank account was blocked, until I refunded that particular scam money to the police officer. 

I took videos of them and their car with number plate. ([Click here for the image](https://imgur.com/a/wNjcrXA)) And also went to the nearest police station to report it to them so that I'm safeguarded in the future if anything happens. But the officer said that it's my fault that I continued with the transaction even though I found it to be fishy, and denied to report anything. I have this conversation with the police recorded in phone. 

What should I do now? Should I withdraw all the money which is in my bank account now, so that if it gets blocked, I don't lose any money? Is whatever I did right? Or am I at fault here?