SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Have been a victim of cyber crime. Need some advice
DATE: 2023-11-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/184dd9r/have_been_a_victim_of_cyber_crime_need_some_advice/

--- POST TEXT ---

So my brother received some msg about job on WhatsApp. He had to do small tasks, like giving 5 stars to hotels, shops on Google map. And he would get commission, Rs.150-200 after every 3-4 of these thing. 

He had joined some telegram channel for all this. Then, they asked for 2000, as a sharing money task. It would become 2800. The group was quite active so he without using his brain, agreed. He sent 2000, then logged in to some website (which I'm assuming is just a fake website)," bought some share on Bitcoin" as per instruction. But, after all this bullshit, within 5-10 minutes he did get 2800 on his bank(by UPI). Next, he gave 5000 and then did all this and got 6500. So in a day, he had earned around 4000 in total.

Now this is the part where the criminals act. This day, again, he is contacted. Asked to give 9000. Looking at the other 253 members in that group, he gives in 9000. Next, he is put in some "elite" telegram group where there are 4 members including him(all of them were with the criminal). They pretended to be ready to pay. This time, the amount given was 98000. This guy gave it. After which, now he was told that 295000 will need to be given, this is the last task. After which he will be given all the profit. 

So our genius now realises that he is stuck deep in the mud. He informed me. 
I told to first off, block the debit card, online transaction, everything and complain about this fraud to the bank. 
Next, I called 1930, the national cyber cell department and got a call back from my nearest police branch. Gave them the details of the transaction and the account. 

Now I have received this message from cyber cell "Dear Sir/ Madam, Status of your Complaint Acknowledgement No. XXX, dated 26/11/2023 XXPM, reported on Cyber Crime portal is amount of Rs. XX(around 50k) has been Put on Hold. Kindly contact your respective Police Station. 
Regards, 
National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal."

I will be going to the police station tomorrow, but wanted to know what this message means? I looked at some websites and they had mentioned that this message means the money he had transferred to the perpetrators has been put in hold/frozen so that they don't take out the money. If possible, after the case is closed they will return the money to my brother's account. 

But I wanted to ask, if any of you have any idea about this or have filed a cyber crime, what this message means? And what should my next steps be?

After I visit the police, I'm gonna fill the transaction dispute form of the bank, and staple in police report/FIR with this and submit to the bank.

Anything else I should be aware about? 

Tl;Dr : victim of online fraud. Have filed complaint to cyber crime and need help understanding what msg means, and next steps I should take