SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Sad Story Time
DATE: 2023-10-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1735ese/sad_story_time/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sad story time, I work in telecom, and had a pretty rough service call yesterday...

Customer complains of intermittent internet, downstream levels showing too high in our system, short line to the house, easy fix, this will take 15 minutes... Precall customer and get a busy tone. Whatever, roll out, gotta knock if we can't reach them.

Arrive and customer is happy I'm there, asks if I'm gonna check it outside, say I'm gonna start at the modem, she shows me where the modem is and I reach to start unhooking the cable line... this is where things started to get weird...

"No! You can't unhook it!" What? Why not? 
"Tech support is working on my computer right now!" Oh, okay, I'm sure it won't be a problem, where is he?
"He's remoted in, and he's been working on my computer for days now trying to fix it because I've been hacked!!"

My heart sinks... at this point I should point out the customer is in her early 70's... and I immediately have suspicions...

Okay... can you show me your computer?
"It's right here, but don't touch it, you could ruin his work, he's been at it for days trying to fix it, it's very technical!" 

"It's windows defender tech support, I've been hacked, my phone has been hacked, and that's why it was busy when you called. I have to stay on the line with him so the hackers can't call me on it!" Oh no.. poor Betty, oh please no...

"They've got my bank info too, but luckily he got me in touch with a federal agent from San Framcisco, they had me pull out 25,000 in cash twice, and the agent came and picked it up to hold onto it for me he had the pass code tech support gave me! Can't trust the fraud department at the bank because they suspect one of them is in on it."

Oh no... no... Betty... no...

Over the next 30 minutes of very careful wording and phrasing, and guiding her thoughts I was able to coach her to the realization she was being scammed, and the nice helpful Indian accented man with the American name was not trying to help her and had taken her 50k through a money mule. 

Next the damage control, as she started to break down emotionally realizing what happened... contact the sheriff's department to get them out to file a report. While waiting on the sheriff, walk her through her next steps to contact her bank directly. Refuse anyone who calls her. No more giving her information to anyone. Let her know people are going to be calling her to say they can help get her money back. They are lying, Betty, your money is gone, they are only trying to get more money from you...

Heard plenty of stories, but I honestly never thought I'd role up into the middle of an active tech support scam. She had no kids or grandkids to protect her and those fucks took her for damn near everything. 

Protect your customers, folks, not everybody has someone looking out for them. 

(No real names or locations used)