SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Tirabeauty messed up an order and accepted the fault but resolution being delayed for more than a month. Need help filing complaint
DATE: 2024-06-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1d6xl0q/tirabeauty_messed_up_an_order_and_accepted_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

During an offer, I bought two olaplex items worth 4760 because they were giving another olaplex product worth 3k free with every 2 olaplex you purchase. I made the purchase and instead of the free olaplex product I got mama earth vitamin C worth about 300rs on April 29th. I instantly send out an email with photos and got a response with a ticket number. About 4 days later I got no further response and so I called up the customer care and I was told that even though ticket number was created no complaint was registered! The rep raised a new complaint for me. On May 9th the resolution I got was 200 reward points which translates to 200rs. In the email I told either you give the free product or just take the entire order back and refund full amount to which I got response that only 200 reward points they can give. I escalated this and the lady agreed that 200 reward points was a bad resolution and should have never been offered and said they will see what can happen.

Since I got no response till May 26th!! I told them I will file a consumer complaint and the lady called and said she has been following up but she herself is not getting any response. She asked for a day and I said you take 3 days and let your seniors know that I will be filing a complaint. On Wednesday I got a call asking to send photo of mama earth product and MRP and that's the last I heard.

I know its long but I honestly feel customer support has become horrible these days. I am frustrated because in the last one year every interaction with a complaint for no fault of mine as been a headache. I recently bought 2lakh worth of TV+Warranty from reliance digital and they never gave me an item that comes with the TV and was part of the invoice. Had to follow up for a 2 months and had to escalate all the way to reliance head office to get the product elivered to my home. Many other experience. So as a consumer that has paid a lot of money, I feel bad for the current state of affairs and I would like to make sure I take action so that this is resolved and they don't take us for granted.

What Tira has done is fraud. They made me spend 4K promising 3k worth of free item. Instead sends 300Rs worth of item and then denies return or exchange or even reward points matching the price of promised product. Its not like the free item isn't in stock. They are still selling No. 3

I went through consumer complaint site and looked at their videos and manuals but looks like I need an advocate. Is there someone who can advice me on how exactly to file a proper complaint?