SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: DHARA 420, 467, 468, 471, 409
DATE: 2024-09-30
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fsbmio/dhara_420_467_468_471_409/

--- POST TEXT ---

My close female relative is in jail and was posted as a senior branch manager in a cooperative bank. The fraud amount is in crores but her ID was used for transcations of about 38 lakhs. Her anticipatory bail as well as the bail in court has been dismissed and then she was arrested. The FIR is on 10 people but she was posted as senior branch manager and she herself went to surrender to the police as they were pressuring her but then later police has written that they arrested her. Her in-laws had a political background but from the party of SP and the cooperative bank owner is itself a famous leader of SP because of which the matter is highly politically motivated. The party in power will never support it obviously. There are 4 people who are responsible but the other 6 people literally belong to small villages and have very small children. 5 are females. She is even ready ti payback the amount through loans and stuff but it's of no use it seems. 

I want to know what should she do now. She claims that she didn't know her I'd was being used all this time for transactions and she could never pay attention as she is not that digitally educated + she feels that other people used her I'd and now she is the one being blamed. In all this matter, she got in a accident and her husband is severely injured as in a severly critical position and she has two children. He was in Medanta gurgaon all this time but now is back in district. The whole family has gone to ruins. I feel so bad for them. The father is staying separately from the children as well since children are not 18+. 

What should she do now? It's also being said that the investigation officer has put a new dhara 120b on the record with other reasons. She is being crushed into this case so bad. She is in jail and her life will get ruined if in the chargesheet all these dharas will be there. Meanwhile, she solemnly promises that she never got to know her digital I'd being used wrongly. She's innocent but her crime is being ignorant. What should she do now? Please help. Even the lawyers are not able to help properly. We don't know what to do? 

All of this is happening very politically which is why we are helpless. What should we do? The whole family condition is worse than ever. My heart goes out to them. It's been 2 months now of the FIR being lodged. She was not arrested for some time as we took help of police but then they pressured that surrender or we will file section 82 on her so she did. Please Please Please help.