SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Swindled out of 3000 rs by fake cops in mufti - I've been made a big fool
DATE: 2024-10-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1g27b5h/swindled_out_of_3000_rs_by_fake_cops_in_mufti_ive/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was coming home from friends house near Kasturi Nagar when I was stopped suddenly, one guy was in police uniform and then there were two guys in plain clothes who waved me down. Looked to be cops but in mufti. I stopped, parked my bike, and before I knew it, one of them grabbed my keys. They all looked very senior in their 50's and pretty overweight. The uniformed cop took his bike, spoke something in kannada to the others and left right after and I was dealing with the 2 other guys. 
 
They started grilling me with the usual questions: “Where are you coming from? Where do you live? Do you drink or smoke?” Then the other cop asked me to be obedient and cooperative as they want to fully pat me down, check my bike and bags. I was a little worried as I am not sure what they were upto but I didnt drink or smoke that night, didnt break any traffic rule as far as I know so was thinking it should be fine if I just complied, I was thinking of recording the incident but my phone was also taken away by the cops. 
When they asked to check my phone, I instinctively said no. But they cornered me, questioning why I was being evasive if I had nothing to hide. It felt like a trap, and I foolishly agreed, letting them unlock it with my face ID. While one cop was asking me more questions while going through my phone, the other was rummaging through my wallet, jotting down my details like it was some kind of interrogation - took down all personal details about me through our conversation. He then started asking about the photos on it, keeping me distracted for what felt like forever. “Nice pics you’ve got here,” he said, “Who’s this? Your girlfriend?” I couldn’t help but smile a little. “Yeah, that’s her,” I said, trying to sound casual, but inside, I was panicking. He called us a cute couple, looked at me and laughed - then patted my face and said “You've been a good boy. Since you’ve been so obedient and cooperative, we’re going to let you go.” They let me go but warned me to head home quickly and avoid any trouble. I was so relieved, quickly gathered my belongings, hopped on my bike and sped away, feeling like I had narrowly escaped something nasty.

When I finally got home, that sense of comfort didn’t last long. I pulled out my wallet as I didn't get time to check all my belongings then. Then I finally realized I had been made a big fool. All the 500 rupee notes—around 3000 rupees—were missing. I kept checking through the wallet and bags, feeling panic set in. They must have taken my money while I was distracted! Those fat cops in mufti played me for a fool and robbed me off right under my nose...Were they even cops, idk guys most likely fake, but a very frustrating experience I encountered...