SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Sister in law threatening false allegations
DATE: 2025-03-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1jmexw7/sister_in_law_threatening_false_allegations/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone. My brother (28M) got married to my sister in law (25F) last year. It was an arranged marriage, and ever since the engagement, things have been rough.
SIL was constantly making degratory comments towards my brother and the family, which started from 'You don't even have a car?' and escalated to verbally abusing my family members. 
(Side note - we are financially well off, and she wasn't. So we were not putting her in an uncomfortable position at all.)

We took NO dowry, but their family spread the word that we did.
Ever since the first week of marriage, SIL and her family have started extorting money from us. First week of marriage and she made my brother pay for wedding expenses of her side from his pocket, and told my brother to keep it a secret from the family.

SIL has a degree but doesn't work, as she doesn't have job related skills, and can't speak English. We offered to educate her further, she agrees in front of us, but then when she's alone with my brother, she starts threatening him.
 
Recent developments which we can't ignore anymore -
1. She banged her head on the wall and later admitted that if she was trying to get a visible scar on her head.

2. My brother touched her on the shoulder while inviting her to sit with the family, and she started screaming "Are you gonna break my arm now". I was there and can confirm that he was NOT rough in any sense.

3. Whenever she gets sick and has to be taken to the hospital, she let's her relatives think that she's being taken to the hospital because she was beat up.

4. If my brother goes out for a week/or she goes to her hometown for a month, she only calls my brother when she needs money. Almost treating him like a bank account.

It's only been a year of marriage and my family members (dad, grandparents) are not supportive of my brother. He's went into depression and is currently undergoing treatment for the same. 
We've tried to sort things out multiple times, only for the same things to happen again.

My question is - how can we protect ourselves from a fake case and, if a divorce is in sights, how can we avoid alimony? 

Please help me out with this, i really don't want a bad marriage to ruin my family :)