SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My fiance was scammed out of £300 by someone claiming to be the police
DATE: 2021-06-07
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/nu9afl/my_fiance_was_scammed_out_of_300_by_someone/

--- POST TEXT ---

This story starts from literally 2 hours ago.

Before you read I would like to point out the main warning signs of this scam :

- using your local polices center number and area code; this number is spoofed.

- they will say there is a warrant for your arrest for money laundering (although they might use some other serious crime you know you did not commit)

- they will give you a fake name, badge/collar number, a batch/case number.

- they will ask for money. The police would never ask for money.

- they will say they are monitoring your phone and texts.

- they will use your full name and claim to have your national insurance number.

Now, as a cyber security student I am surprised on how brutal and thorough these scams are getting. The scammer has obviously collected data by phishing or other malicious software my fiance may of installed on her phone. It is also possible that they got the information from leaked or hacked databases.

We are currently talking to the police about what happened. My fiance has some mental health problems and she is incredibly shaken by the whole situation and this happened whilst I was out. During her panic she had given them 300 GBP. Although this is not that much, she works very hard every day as a child care student in a nursery.

Upon answering the phone she was greeted with threatening vocabulary stating she will be "taken to court" if it is not dealt with whilst on the phone. When I advised her to put the phone down because it is most likely a scam they also threatened to "put her behind the bars".

My fiance is polish and she is no good at picking up accents but it was most likely a call center located somewhere in Europe or India. (I know its wrong to call out India, but we all know India is a hotspot for all kinds of world wide scams. I have nothing against the Indian people and I love their culture). 

After the the initial call, she was directed to wait for another call from a mobile number. Obviously the mobile number is a big red flag but she didn't know this. The number is likely spoofed too.

I have dealt with scammers before, claiming to be the HMRC and other government estblishments to scam me out of my hard earned dollar.

Has anyone had any similar calls? And is there anything that can be done? 

My fiance is extremely shaken by these people and as you can imagine I am livid and I would love to take these people down in a happy ending story booking fashion but obviously these people will continue. 
I'm hoping the police will be able to find something from the account details she transfered the money to as this would be realistically the only "lead" they can follow. 

Thanks for listening guys, take care and don't fall victim to this scam. The police would never threaten you and target you in such a manner.

Cheers.