SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Assam Police faces heat as woman constable seen with infant on poll duty—‘crèche mandatory’
AUTHOR: Nootan Sharma
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/assam-police-woman-constable-infant-poll-duty/2890160/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
A
photograph of a
woman constable
with
her infant
son
tied to her back while being on election duty drew flak online
after the Assam Police shared it on social media Thursday, praising her “duty and dedication”.
The constable, Mamoni Teron, is posted at Sonapur Police Station on the outskirts of Guwahati. In the photo posted by Assam police, Teron
in
uniform, smiles at
the camera with
her child tied
to
her back with
a traditional Assamese gamocha
.
“
WPC Mamoni Teron of Sonapur PS,
@GuwahatiPol
, shows us what duty & dedication truly mean. Amid intense election-related duties, she serves with her child tied gently to her back. A little one who simply wants to be with the mother. A Salute to her & to every unseen sacrifice in uniform!”
posted
Assam Police on X.
Show Full Article
The
photo quickly went viral and
prompted praise for Teron’s commitment, but
users
question
ed
the working conditions for women in uniform,
especially mothers.
“Salute to you WPC Mamoni Teron. Set up a crèche Assam Police and next time post pictures of that,” one user
wrote
.
Also read:
Swimming can help older adults age positively, says report. It studied a 99-yr-old patient
‘Crèche facilities are mandatory in India’
Assam
goes to the polls on 9 April, and
constables are usually deployed for long hours for
several
days
at a stretch
with limited breaks and minimal logistical support.
“Shame on you, that can’t even provide basic safety and facilities of creche to serving strong women and you are feeling proud of this. If not at least approve her leaves,”
another
commented
.
Users also slammed Assam police for glorifying gruelling work without providing a mandatory creche facility, ensured by the
Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017.
“Assam Police must know that crèche facilities are mandatory in India employees under the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017. The facility must be within or near the workplace (500m) or in the employee’s neighborhood,”
another wrote.
In 2022, another woman constable from Silchar went viral and won praises online for carrying her seven-month
-old
baby to work regularly.
The Bureau of Police Research and Development data says th
a
t women remain underrepresented in India’s police forces. They
constitute
roughly 12 to 13 per cent of the total strength in recent years. While their numbers have gradually increased, support systems—including maternity benefits, flexible postings, and childcare facilities—have not kept pace uniformly across states.
(Edited by Saptak Datta)