SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: My Uncle wants to forcefully seize the land that is under my name ...need help 
DATE: 2024-03-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bf5akm/my_uncle_wants_to_forcefully_seize_the_land_that/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello ...my father and uncle were both supposed to get equal land from my grandfather, we have two plots ...so my father registered one plot under my name ( lease/ patta) and left the other one for my uncle and my father asked him to do the same and asked my uncle to get his land registered but he said he doesn't have money to apply for a residential lease ( awasiya patta ) so he(uncle) didn't ...
My uncle is an extreme alcoholic and abuses everybody in my family, we are a joint family and live in the same house .... he has made all our lives a living hell and everybody (neighbours, relatives) is aware of his habits and behaviour ..
'The land that is under my name is directly next to our house and the house is owned by my grandfather '

"Now on 31st January he called me from his office and asked me download an app called "GPS MAP CAMERA" and asked me to send some photos of the house and a selfie ( my photo ) with the house behind me . At that time I didn't think much about it as I wasn't aware of his greed for land so I didn't ask him about it and sent them to him ...also the plot wasn't visible in those photos just our home and a photo of my face ...
I later found out that he had been doing the same with my grandfather ( taking his photos and stuff)"

Now 2 days back he came home super drunk , and he started arguing and abusing my grandmother saying that he has been cheated with and my father double crossed him and other bullshit ....he said that he wants them to take the land from me and give it to him ..and this went on forever ...then my uncle started getting physical and started pushing my grandma ...then I interfered and called him out on his BS ...that pissed him off because I don't really get involved in this type of things but he took things too far .....he cursed at me and started pushing me saying get out this house, why are you here ? Nikal yaha se bahar ...made some vile comments about my mother......then I also pushed him back and put him in his place .... after that things calmed down a bit and then I went to sleep and he went to get more alcohol....
After 1 hour he came back and then again went to my grandma to get her thumbprints forcefully .....
Meanwhile I called my father and told him everything but he told me to not get involved and stay away from him ....so I did 

Now guys please tell me what he can do with photos and what can he use them for ? 
And why do you think he needed my selfie and with photos of our house? ....can he use those photos to commit fraud on us ? Can he use those photos to harm me or my family ? 
What do you think he used them for ? 
+ 
How do we deal with him ? Can I take legal action against him ? 
Please help