SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank harassing citizens
DATE: 2023-12-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18s29iu/bank_harassing_citizens/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had acquired a personal bank loan through my bank in the year 2019 for 4L. Every month a certain amount would get deducted from my account towards the installment and I had paid off more than half that amount till 2020. It became difficult to pay after COVID and I applied for a moratorium, which was approved. While in moratorium, the bank started sending people to my home address who would harass my parents and yell in the neighborhood about me "missing" payments. I have not lived at my home address for a decade now and I told them this. They continued to harass my elderly parents nonetheless. I would call and inform them about the issue and ask them to send me an option for settlement to get the matter resolved asap but they have not done so yet. I have asked many executives multiple times to help me close the matter but they insist that I have to pay them the entire amount in one go. 
They have been calling me, sending fake legal notices, and trying to intimidate me by threatening to send fake police to my home address (where they know I do not reside). The matter has gotten worse after I realised they were tracking me to the cities I was moving to and tracking my other bank accounts. I know this because one of the fake police dude told me he was close to my house; my new address (this address is not disclosed by me to any bank).
They are also asking me to pay the FULL LOAN AMOUNT including the amount I have already paid because and I quote - "you are getting money in your other accounts".
I'm scared for my life and I don't know why they won't settle or let me pay the installments to finish off this issue. What do I do? What do they want? Why won't they agree for a settlement? And what can they do to me in this circumstance?

--- Posting on behalf of a female friend of mine. It is an important detail as these goons/fake police are threatening to show up at her house.