SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I think my grandma is falling for a scam.
DATE: 2016-11-16
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/5d9rys/i_think_my_grandma_is_falling_for_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I hope this is the right subreddit to post this in, it's a wall of text but there is a TL:DR at the end. 
 
 
So my grandma came down to visit yesterday and she began to tell me about a man from Microsoft that she had befriended who needed her help, and as she was explaining it I could just see red flags everywhere. So I thought as I wasn't really getting through to her, I would seek advice to see if someone can give me a definitive answer of if this is a scam. 
 
 

My grandma was having trouble with the drivers on her PC and her keyboard wasn't working so she rang Microsoft, they told her they would call back at a later point that day and so she waited. 
When they called back the man told her that he is from a different company as Microsoft outsource some of their technical services. 
He did actually fix her issue and then *somehow* they decided to stay in contact... 
To cut to the chase they have been video Skyping, they have each other as friends on Facebook, and after a week of this strange friendship he asked her for a favour. This is where it gets 'scammy'. 
 
He wants to open a technical help business over here, apparently for whatever reason he needs her help to open a bank account in her name and accept the cheques (+ other forms of payment I assume) and then forward the money on to him after taking off VAT or whatever and an additional 20% commission for my grandma. 
 
 
 

She showed me his Facebook and I mean it all seems so legitimate, there are loads of pictures and apparently she even spoke to his wife on Skype at one point. 
 
I told her that everything inside of me was screaming that this was something sinister, as it all seemed to good to be true, and just to say that she feels uncomfortable doing this for him after so little time knowing him. 
 
She is not a wealthy person and I said that if she wants to be this man's friend then she can be, without helping him like this after only a week of knowing him. 
 
She said that she would say to him that she is willing to help, but that she will hold all of the payments for three months before sending them to him, to prevent the common scam of the cheque being found out to be fraudulent after the person has already sent the money, I guess that's a tad safer but I still really don't want her to do it. 
 
 

 
Some quick facts: My grandma lives in England, he lives in India. He is in his late twenties/early thirties. He has been working for Microsoft through this company for 10-years apparently. His grammar is excellent except for his website (which isn't up yet), which had extremely poor grammar. The man has my grandma's bank account number, sort code, as well as he has had remote access to her PC whilst he was fixing it. 
 
 
Does anyone know if this is actually a scam or can offer any information that might help? 
If you have any questions let me know!
 

 
Thanks for reading.

**TL:DR** Man from 'microsoft' breaks professionalism and adds my grandma on Skype, after talking for a week he asks her to open a bank account and accept payments on his behalf, before forwarding the money to him minus her cut.