SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: The aadhar experience
DATE: 2017-07-04
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/6l71rl/the_aadhar_experience/

--- POST TEXT ---

*Disclaimer: This post makes no judgements on the merits or demerits of aadhar as a system, and the author is too incompetent to make insightful points about aadhar. This is just his experience in getting his aadhar id.*

So yesterday, I went to make my aadhar card at a quaint little place called P'tek Multiples, right in from of the Bimal showroom in Mahadevpura. I arrived at around 2 pm, naively thinking the place will be empty on a monday afternoon. The young man, probably a little too young, told me that they won't be able to handle my request as they were full, and that I would have to come tomorrow at 9 AM to get my work done. Rookie error, I told myself. An empty aadhar centre, especially after the the whole PAN card linking, what a fool I was.

Learning from this experience, I went there the next day and planted myself right it front of P'tek at 8:50 am, because in my head, the early bird gets the worm. There was a man sweeping the office (if you could call it that), and it turned out that that this man had nothing to do with aadhars, and the actual administrators (if you could call them that) were to arrive at 10 am. That little twerp had scammed me. The early bird gets scammed. Some would say scam is too harsh a word, but pardon my love for hyperbole. I whiled away my time till ten, at which point I found myself in the race to thrust my form into the administrators hand. I finished honourable seventh place. Only six people ahead of me, that should not take too long, I thought.
I convinced myself this should be done in about an hour or so. In doing so, I scammed myself. Turns out the cool folk who do the real work would not arrive until 11:30. 
The real workers, ie. computer operators, arrived earlier than the said 11:30. They graced the centre at around 11. Under-promising and over-delivering. I was impressed. This happiness quickly faded away as I realised the the cutting edge infrastructure bestowed upon this centre allowed for the functioning if upto one PC to work at a time, at breathtakingly slow internet speeds. There were two other PC's helmed by two young women, whom I could only imagine were admiring the wallpaper. I waited just outside the cramped centre enjoying the the honking of the cars and second hand smoke of the good folk waiting there with me. 
Finally when my turn arrived, I was made to sit down on bench and all my details were taken. I wish I was lying, but there were more dogs in the centre than working PCs for the aadhar work.
Credit where credit is due, the dogs had collars, and seemed friendly, though street bred.

By 12:30, I was done. The actual process took all of only about 15 min, but I ended up spending half the day for it.

TL;DR: Be prepared to spend half your day at [this](https://www.justdial.com/Bangalore/Ptek-Multiples-Opp-Bimal-Showroom-Mahadevapura/080PXX80-XX80-160820120639-X6I1_BZDET) aadhar centre.