SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Aha Originals presents Neetho Swindler
DATE: 2022-08-24
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/wwlttv/aha_originals_presents_neetho_swindler/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know I know, most of you didn't get the joke in the title. Sorry. :")

Coming to the purpose of the post, it's about what happened in the last few hours.

I go for an evening run everyday, and on my way back stop for chai-sutta near a tea stall (perfectly balanced). Since I'm a regular customer, the guy puts extra malai, and I'm too afraid to tell him I hate malai but don't wanna hurt the poor guy.

While I was having my tea, a guy in mid 40s walks up to me, and asks me if I can send him 2000 rupees on Phonepe, and a part of me knew he'd either give me a fake note or run away once I transfer the money. Thankfully he paid me first and when I checked the note later, it was the first time I was happy to see the father of the nation.

But what irked me is how sus the entire deal was. The guy gave me the number of an unsaved WhatsApp contact, and when I had a glimpse of that chat, I knew he was getting conned. After entering the number, it showed a generic North Indian name.

He spent the next 5 minutes texting and calling her, and didn't get a response. He then patted me on the back, thanked me and left. I felt bad to be part of the whole deal. 

This took me back to the time when I newly installed a few dating apps, and the only matches I received asked me money for video calls, shots and similar shit. Being broke and a bit smort helped me from getting conned.

But most of the people I know let horniness prevail. The purpose of this post is to call out such frauds, who ask for money for such stuff. Some people themselves go on websites like Locanto, where the scammers put pictures of telugu heroines, and charge 2-3k. Facepalm. 

And most of the times, it doesn't end with paying the advance. If they can detect how vulnerable you are, they'd continue to ask you to pay full amount, room charges, security deposit, GST, CGST, SGST, IGST, VAT, Income Tax, Road Tax, Water Tax, Service Tax.... 

And eventually block you. Since you're indulging in something illegal, there's no way you'd approach the police. And they'll loot you as long as you let them. 

And I know most people who are cheated feel ashamed to even speak out about it, but don't forget &gt;!Arranged Marriage is always an option!&lt;

Thank you for coming to my Ted Talk. 

And those who didn't get the joke in the title, Neetho is a dating app for Telugu Singles. Got to know about it through a Spotify Ad.