SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: The BLUE CROSS Scam - Animal Lovers Assemble!
DATE: 2024-03-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1bhpkhi/the_blue_cross_scam_animal_lovers_assemble/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently came to know how Blue Cross actually treats animals. There are several scams going on. Some of the incidents I talk about below were exposed recently by TN Animal Welfare Board (attached the video to this post) Let me list them:

1. Huge number of animals come in, Blue Cross simply doesn't have the manpower to help them. They get CRORES of funds every single year, from several corporates and government organizations directly. They don't hire good Vets, they don't hire good Vet Nurses. They're extremely stingy when it comes to pay.
2. They have an unofficial "policy" to kill off as many animals as possible, in order to reduce the animal count in their shelters. They've killed several pups and dogs recently. Some of the incidents I talk about in this post were [exposed recently (click here to watch).](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vCvkiwZt8FvxSudkzKFYCi13NsEE_dbd/view?usp=sharing)
3. Almost 50 ANIMALS DIE every single day. Reasons? 3a. Some animals are brought in sick, and they're just dumped in the shelter without proper care or treatment. 3b. Sick animals are put up in the same shelter where healthy animals live. It leads to spreading of diseases, and the healthy animals die too. 3c. There's this fatal disease called Canine Distemper (CD) which kills dogs 9/10 times. Since they wanna keep reducing the animal count, they often do this test with a homekit sort of tool (like the one we used to have for COVID) which is useless, always shows positive no matter what. Even though they don't notice enough symptoms for CD, they do this test, and the test kit shows +ve, and they euthanize/kill off the dogs. Several healthy, well nourished dogs were put down simply because they just had normal fever and the idiots decided to use the testkit immediately.
4. The crores of money they receive probably go towards purchases like the management's residences, cars, etc - these are legal.
5. They do have a good number of attenders to clean the place and keep it neat most of the time, which gives the image that Blue Cross is good and a safe haven for animals. That's absolutely not the case!
6. There's not enough Vets in the shelters. In a shelter with 2000+ animals, there are only 2 Vets, and that too only till 5PM. Many animals suffer and die overnight on a daily basis.
7. Even the Vets that do work there, have no idea what they're doing. They don't know how to do a proper surgery. Even if they successfully do one, there's absolutely no post-op care, which makes the surgery itself almost useless, because many animals end up dying anyway.
8. I hear that good Vets don't like to join Blue Cross. Many good Vets have worked in Blue Cross and decided to leave after looking at the pathetic state of the management.
9. Blue Cross, unlike what I thought, is NOT a government entity or answerable to government. It is privately owned, but does get funding from government, which obviously gets misused. It is run by a bunch of idiots that have absolutely NO COMPASSION. They care about: 9a. How to siphon off funds 9b. How to cut corners and reduce expenses as much as possible 9c. Kill off animals/reduce animal count as much as possible Basically they work like a typical corporate. Atleast in a corporate, employees are answerable to their superiors and hence they work properly. Here, the superiors don't give a shit too. So employees aren't really answerable to anybody.
10. There's no DATA. They don't have data on how many animals are brought in, how many die, number of surgeries done, what kind of infections occur, etc. WTH?