SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: [Need help] Ex boyfriend’s sister has sent a ‘Cease and Desist’ order with false allegations, do I ignore or respond?
DATE: 2021-01-17
SCORE: 66
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/kz5rpb/need_help_ex_boyfriends_sister_has_sent_a_cease/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I am in a very precarious situation. I broke up with this guy in August last year. I had a hunch he was cheating on me and since he had given me his passwords I logged in to his Insta account. I took a few screenshots of incriminating chats and logged out, sent them to him the next day to confront him. He didn’t deny it, I said a few nasty words and then blocked him from everywhere. I haven’t contacted him since except a splitwise notification to ask for my money back and to check up on his sister and mom when they got COVID (found out from a common friend). 

Fast forward to a couple of days ago, his sister tried calling me, I ignored it thinking it’s him. That was followed by a legal notice of ‘Cease and Desist’ claiming 1) that I sent an Amazon parcel of condoms in his late father’s name thereby sexually intimidating his widowed mother and posing a threat to her life (absolute bullshit) and 2) online bullying, threats, and impersonation (absolute bullshit) 

I ignored it. However, this morning I got a delayed notification from Amazon saying ‘Out for delivery’. I immediately called them and they said there was no account linked to that number and I needn’t worry, it may have been an error. But I am now scared he is trying to frame me for something. I have lodged complaints in TRAI, Vodafone (my provider), Cyber crime cell, and Amazon. 

Do I need to respond to this notice? It says if it doesn’t pertain to me I should ignore it. I spoke to two lawyers and both advised completely contradictory things- one says to completely ignore and the other says to send him a notice of criminal intimidation. 

I don’t want to do anything except put all this behind me. My mother is quite unwell and I really don’t have the physical or mental bandwidth to deal with all this. 

His sister and her husband are both lawyers and they know many as they are financiers and have often indulged in underhanded schemes to recover money. I am from a very simple straight forward family with 0 experience with any of this. This is extremely mentally damaging to me. How do I protect myself from these people? 

Thanks in advance for any and all help.

Edit- One more thing to note is I have not been directly accused in the notice. She has used passive voice “It has come to my notice a maniac is out there...” Yadav yada. And there’s no demand for a response or a timeline.
Edit 2- One reason for him doing this could be that he owes me ~2 lacs and doesn’t want to pay so is instead choosing to intimidate me. I really don’t care about the money and haven’t even sent a reminder on it after a few initial ones. The other reason could be that he simply ordered it for himself and accidentally used his father’s name and when the sister got the package, he panicked and made up this elaborate lie. This is all conjecture though, I am as confused as anyone else right now.