SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Partly fell for Customs and Border patrol scam.
DATE: 2024-12-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1hh3jw8/partly_fell_for_customs_and_border_patrol_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’m a M26, and I never thought scammers would get so much personal information out of me, but they did. Thankfully I don’t think they got too much, and after I hung up I think I took the right steps to protect myself. It seems this CBP scam started affecting people about a year ago, but reading other accounts, this was different, and more convincing. I’m writing out this experience to update anyone who receives a similar call.

I received a call from an unknown number and picked up. A woman (Indian sounding, but the accent was good. She sounded American-Indian) answered. She told me that she was from CBP and if I was first name, last name. I said yes. She asked if I’d been expecting a package from Mexico. I said No. She told me before starting the call to get a pen and paper and to write down her name, her badge number and the case ID number which I did. She proceeded to tell me that drugs and around $94,000 had been seized shipped under my name. This is where I got a little skeptical and I asked her how she could prove to me that she was from custom and border patrol. She had me go on the Internet and look up the El Paso station‘s phone number for custom border patrol and she asked if I saw the number listed there. I said I did. It was not the number she was calling from. She said the number she was calling from was the consumer protection line, but that she could call me from the El Paso station‘s number. Another call came in from the El Paso station and it was still her and it was the number so I felt a little reassured.

The next part of the call was an interview of sorts. She told me that this was a recorded line and going to be part of investigation and that I shouldn’t lie because it could be used in a court of law against me. She proceeded to ask me if I was familiar with some addresses in Texas, where the drugs had been shipped to, how often I used the US Postal Service, etc. I continued the phone call because it all seemed like a legit investigation and she wasn’t asking for any personal information and if legit, I didn’t want the government to think that I had done this. After a while, she said that the investigative team thought that I might be a victim of identity theft, and she asked me if I’d been a victim of a recent break-in if I left my passwords sitting out if there was anyone in my life who had motive to impersonate me, etc. I answered no to all of this.

This is where the conversation took a turn. She informed me about how the investigation was going to proceed. She rattled some bureaucratic boiler plate off at me saying that it would go transfer to some other department, and then some sort of paperwork would be sent via a police officer to my door and then I would have my own copy. In the meantime however they were going to seize and freeze the fraudulent assets but they could not tell which assets were mine and which assets were fraudulently opened up under my name. I had several drivers licenses and several vehicles listed to me, and that they were going to seize the fraudulently created ones so that I needed to stay on the line and tell her which assets were mine, not giving away any personal details. I told her the make and model of my car she asked for my ZIP Code and then she confirmed the rest of my personal address. She asked for the names of the financial institutions, I use where I had bank accounts, type of account, and approximate value. I got really uncomfortable here, I told her that some banks use this as a security question, but after some reassurance I gave her the names, account types, and approximate values. She asked about brokerage accounts and I told her the name and approximate value of all my accounts there, with a huge ballpark, because I wasn’t comfortable. She then wanted me to break it down by account and give here an approximate value there. This is when all the uncomfortableness burst and I just hung up. She tried to call me back, but I didn’t answer.

Talked with my dad, did some googling, and I’m pretty sure it’s a scam. I don’t know how they called me from the El Paso number though. In the aftermath I called my banks told them what happened. Put a verbal password on my brokerage account, and froze it for two weeks. I froze my credit at the credit agencies too.

I think this scammer got me for as long as she did because for a long time, I was just refuting illicit activities, and after a while on the phone I got comfortable. She also somehow got CBP’s phone number, and the script was very good. It created a sense of urgency, if I hung up my assets could be seized and I didn’t want that. I know civil forfeiture is a thing, so it seemed plausible that the government might do that to me! With the information I gave, is there anything else I should do to protect myself?