SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Education is a great leveller, but it also puts some of us into a lifelong limbo.
DATE: 2025-03-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1jk5u9g/education_is_a_great_leveller_but_it_also_puts/

--- POST TEXT ---

Before school - Till I was 5

The main discussion was around whether to put me in a CBSE school or a state govt syllabus school. The govt syllabus schools in Kerala - at the moment - are somewhat at par with CBSE schools, but back in late 90s/early 2000s it was not the case. The upside of State Syllabus was that there was literally zero fees. But my parents thought it would do me well to study in an English Medium, CBSE school. And I think it made some difference then. It would not have made any difference now, but it did then. I was admitted straight into 1st std, skipping KG. All was well. 

Growing Up - 5 to 10

I was the topper - in every exam at school. Not just in the class, but across all the divisions. I was moved from D division to A division which was mostly reserved for kids from affluent families in the neighbourhood. I remember being the teachers' pet, but I also remember having discussions about new school bags, new umbrellas, shoes, socks, uniform pairs, etc etc. I wouldn't say I used to pester my parents for that, but I wanted it and sometimes as a kid it was hard to not show disappointment. 

Pre Teens till Boards

This is when things started getting a bit out of hand. I was easily the topper in all subjects, but I started having a crush, and not being able to do what rich kids would do made me sad. Low waist pants, fancy backpacks, football jerseys - I dunno. I was still the teachers' pet, but started feeling guilty about it. I wanted to fit in with the cool kids and their post school football games, badminton games. I wanted to talk back to teachers like they would do, I wanted to appear more manly - of course to impress her - but then I was none of it. I was just a kid who had already come farther than most of my family ever did. I did well in boards, but was not the topper (\~94%+)- came as a shock to the entire fucking batch and the teachers and the principal. He called my parents up and forced them to take me out to a better coaching facility because he felt that if I stayed at home, my potential would be wasted. 

 
Hostel and JEE

I was put into a hostel - partly based on my demand, and partly because the principal thought I had it in me, and partly because my parents would never say no to anything and everything they can invest in me. I did not fit in again - there was a weight of debt my dad had taken up for my schooling and lodging, and I had to clear JEE (which I did). But the entire two years was traumatic - not because I had too much to study. Having too much to study was the good part. The bad part was being sent to a school with ULTRA RICH kids, when your hormones are high and so is your inferiority complex. I did have friends who wanted to clear JEE as much as I did, some of them are still my closest friends - but I will come to that. I remember praying for the uniform to come in 11th std because my casual dress was probably what Snape would have worn in Hogwarts dorms. I remember sitting in the ground alone for most part of my 11th and 12th class lunch breaks. 

College

This, was good. It was better than good, probably the best time of my life. I found a lot of people - not really exact similar backgrounds, but still - some of them are my best friends now - it has been over 12-13 years since we met. And I thought life was set.

 
Surprise Surprise - Limbo Starts

Me earning X LPA is not the same as a person with high salaried govt officials as parents, earning X LPA, is not the same as a person with rich parents and ancestral wealth earning X LPA. The problem with figuring this out is that by the time you figure this out, your opportunity to work towards earning X+x LPA is over. The time you figure this out, your peers - with high salaried govt officials as parents, or with ancestral wealth or family business - are already thinking about multiplying their money, while you are trying to match their lifestyle while paying back your education loans and funding your parents' ever so small dreams and comforts. 

Counterproductive MBA

By now, you'd know that I am not much of a networker, and I am more a sulker. And MBA is not for sulkers. Read this carefully - if you cannot fake it till you make it, do not do an MBA (unless your parents have already made it). In my case, I was the first PG in my entire family history, and I was doing it for the first time. I did not know CFA decided your Summer Placement chances, I did not know you had to 'network with seniors with MBB Internships'. I did not know shit about MBA. I can say that I came out alive, having done really bad at the B School, with around 18-20L loan, broken relationship and a job that was not what I had in my mind starting the B School. 

Back to the Limbo

No surprises for guessing - I did not make any friends at MBA. All my friends are from UG, and I love them. More like I treasure them. But there's something that they do which irks me. For eg,

'Let's go to Thailand in May?' 

'No bro, no funds.'

'Come on - it won't cost much'

Well, it will. It will cost a lot of money if you were like me - caught in the rush of life moving too fast, people moving in and out of life, playing catch up all the time. It will cost a lot of money if you were me, stupid enough to not jump jobs, with 30% hikes every 2 years. It will cost a lot of money if you did not invest a part of your salary in SIP. It is a lot of money if you are a person willing to step out of your home, drive that 10 year old bike (no regrets there), go to a restaurant 5 mins away to have the dosa to save swiggy delivery charges. 

It costs a lot of money to even think of a trip if you know that you are one medical emergency away from going back to living salary to salary. 

And that hurts - you are slowly having to move away from your friends so that there is no pressure to match lifestyles. You feel sad about the lost opportunities, about the things you could have done in life. Right now, I feel happy when my friends take NO the first time I tell them. 

'Let's go to Goa?' 

'No bro, slightly tight right now' 

'Cool. Next time then.' 

It feels like a clock ticking you know - what if they get tired of hearing next time every fucking time they ask? What if they have all drifted so far apart from you by the time you are somewhere close to crossing this space of LIMBO? Or what if you never cross the LIMBO again? 

There is one part of my brain-mind-heart - whatever - that feels like I should have gone to a state syllabus school, studied in a local college in Kerala - I am sure 16 year old me could have easily cracked Merit seats in Engg colleges - you add 3 more zeroes to my rank and I still would have :). I would not have had to live in this constant LIMBO.