SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Scamming and Immoral Thugs: Hyderabad's OLA and Uber Drivers
DATE: 2024-11-23
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1gy4dxj/scamming_and_immoral_thugs_hyderabads_ola_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don't ever remember the cab situation in Hyderabad being this bad. I'm a native here, and I'm shocked at the unrelenting audacity of drivers gaming cab fares post-booking and then acting as if they so no evil once the ride ends! This is now going beyond drivers calling you post booking to cancel rides to do an offline ride for the same fare

*First incident*

this absolute BS that happened with my OLA ride. Booked a cab from Manikonda to LB Nagar - should've been a simple 20km approx, Rs 400 trip. Dozed off for a bit and woke up to find us on the damn PVNR expressway! Driver fed me some crap about "faster route through Kharmanghat" - yeah right! The sneaky rat took me on a 40-45km joy ride AROUND the entire city!

And The kicker? I kid you not!! What should've been Rs 400 turned into a freaking Rs 2000 fare! When I lost it, he had the nerve to claim "the app showed this route." I Had to pay up and then fight with OLA support to get 60% of the fare refunded. 

*second incident*

Round 2 of this nonsense happened in September. Again, leaving Manikonda dead tired, I SPECIFICALLY told the driver to drove "through the city." Dozed off and guess what? Woke up on that cursed PVNR expressway again! But this time, I was ready for this scam - screenshots and all!!( the route, the fare etc)

Called out that sneaky rat right there! Gave him hell the entire ride, telling him straight up " my fare is Rs 500, and YOU'RE paying the difference if it goes up!" He sat there sulking like a caught rat. When we finally pulled up to my place (where my brother was waiting, just in case), and behold!! It was Rs 1200 on the meter!

Since it was a cash ride, I had leverage - either he coughs up the difference or we're having a nice long chat right here on the street. Must've realized he was caught red-handed because he handed over the difference and bolted.

Since then, the exact same thing has happened with multiple cab drivers, but I've been able to avoid these issues by staying alert and asking about the route they're trying to take once the ride starts.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

My problem is that it shouldn’t be this hard at all, and paying for the ride and still having to be vigilant is just mentally draining and i dont know who’s responsible for fixing this corruption, but an every day citizen and especially people migrating here should not be taken advantage of like this. May this post act as the necessary awareness for the lovely locals and all the lovely fellow Indians coming to this city. Beware!!!