SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: My friend is being harassed by a woman
DATE: 2023-12-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18mxbpt/my_friend_is_being_harassed_by_a_woman/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, my friend 29M met a woman 26F through Instagram in Jan 2020. They hooked up in the first few weeks of meeting each other. It was consensual. My friend 29M didn't feel the chemistry with her and didn't want to proceed further in developing a relationship with her. Following this, she kept calling him 100s of times and blackmailing him that she's gonna tell everyone that he "used" her. 

He thought he'd let her down slowly so kept in contact with her. This one time he was on a video call with her on the terrace and she took a screenshot of his background which is a school and a pretty accurate landmark of his house. She punched in the school name on google maps and found out his address. 

Since then, every time he'd deny meeting her, she'd threaten him that she's gonna land up in front of his house. Unable to avoid these situations, he kept meeting up with her and kept getting tangled deeper and deeper in this situationship. 

Unable to take this forced relationship any longer, he talked to her about breaking up to which her response was that she will commit suicide and write a suicide letter mentioning that he drove her to suicide. Unable to imagine the consequences of that actually happening, he considered marriage with her on a condition that she visits a psychiatrist first.

The psych evaluation went in his favor. The doctor outlined a three page report that she has episodes of obsession, compulsion, anger outbursts, anxiety attacks, psychosis and much more. He prescribed medication for her for a year. She took it for a few days and discarded it. 

She constantly keeps threatening him that she will commit suicide and frame him for her death. He even talked to her family members about how their daughter is harassing him and it seemed like they are aware of her mental condition and want to get rid of her asap by getting her married to my friend. 

My friend consulted some local lawyers and they informed him that if anything were to happen to her, he's gonna be in deep trouble - is this actually possible? 

He has no place to go. He can't marry her as he is not attracted to her and doesn't believe that she will be a good partner to him. Neither can he marry someone else as she knows where he lives and can come and create tensions between him and his family.

It has been almost four years now, he is unable to break contact with her or even block her number as he fears that she will commit suicide and frame him for her death. I want my friend to be out of this situation. Please advice. If any further details are needed, please let me know. I will try my best to provide them. Thanks.