Read this before applying to NxtWave CCBP 4.0 Program 1. I joined around 1 year ago and 90% of our batch is still unplaced, the company doesn't care about us anymore and doesn't pick up our calls or reply to us. 2. When I joined they offered me a 10, 000Rs scholarship and I paid 30, 000 upfront and signed a legal document saying I will pay 12% + GST from my future salary. 3. I and many others joined this thinking they will surely help us get placed. 4. But, the courses are below average hardly 2 - 3 companies come for placements those too are small development companies that you would have never heard of 5. Most of the 10% who got placed actually got placed via their college OnCampus Placements and still they have to pay money to NxtWave as they signed legal document 6. The company forced these people to write Quora reviews and shoot videos which they are uploading on their Instagram every day. 7. New students think that wow students are getting placed so they too join, while the truth is 90% o[censored]s are unplaced and the company doesn't care about us anymore. 8. Their sales people will say anything and everything over call to fool you as these sales people only care about their incentives and sales target 9. Trust me never ever join them, NxtWave is total scam. 10. The worst part is not that we wasted 30, 000. We actually wasted 1 year of our lives. Many o[censored]s wanted to MCA or MBA and we didn't do it. Now, my parents have also started to taunt me for sitting jobless at home. 11. They will send you offcampus drives of capgemini and TCS etc !!! We did not pay 30, 000 to apply to off-campus drives. 12. Hardly 2 - 3 companies come for placement every month and these are companies paying 3 - 3.5 LPA and you would have never heard of them ever these are small web development companies and sales companies in Hyderabad. 13. You still have to 12% of your salary at this 3 or 3.5 LPA package, when we joined they said if you get placed at more than 5 LPA then only you have to pay. But now they have edited legal documents for people who got lesser package and they had no option but to accept and live on ... Note to NxtWave - - Stop playing with our careers NxtWave - Stop putting fake reviews on Quora - Stop taking money from people who got placed via campus placements - Stop putting video reviews of people who got placed via campus placement and claim that you helped them - Start putting real truth 90% of your batches are unplaced why don't you put up stories about that on your Instagram? - Stop enrolling new students when more than 2, 000 people in previous batches are unplaced, stop being money hungry. Was this information helpful? No (34) Yes (363)