SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Fraudster scammed my mom of 2.5k for tutoring his kid.
DATE: 2023-05-02
SCORE: 142
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/135b518/fraudster_scammed_my_mom_of_25k_for_tutoring_his/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, my mom got a call yesterday from a guy saying that he wants to get tuition for his kid and was willing to pay 2.5k in advance. The guy said that he was in the army and the kid lived with his brother because he'd lost his wife, thus playing the emotional card. He said that he'd pay using the army canteen card and for it both people (sender and receiver) have to enter the UPI pin instead of just the sender. She had to go to her UPI app (GPay/Paytm/etc), enter his UPI id, enter the amount, and enter the UPI pin right after he enters his (he was on call for the entire duration). 

Now my mom doesn't have a UPI id and is not familiar with UPI payment method either, so she asked me to do it. I told her that this way would transfer my money to his account but she insisted for the sake of the guy's kid. In order to establish trust, he used the same method to send token amounts of Rs. 25 and Rs. 100 to establish trust and which i received in my account. Tho, when i looked at my bank statement later I noticed four transactions, two crediting 25 and 100 rupees (token amounts he sent) and debiting the two amounts (this was deducted because i entered my UPI id) as well. The fact that I did not get debit messages from my bank instantly played to his advantage.

Now, he asked my mom to do so for the 2.5k as well. I told her again that this may just deduct money from my account but the guy had already established that his method worked, so i entered his UPI id, the amount and my UPI pin. This time tho, i got an instant message that the money had been deducted from my account. My mom told him so, and he said that maybe the transaction expired and asked her to try again. This time I had his feeling that he might be a fraud, so i took the mobile number from his UPI id and searched it on Truecaller and found his number registered as fraud. Additionally, people had also commented similar stories on his Truecaller profile. 

I showed this to my mom and that's when she realised that she had been swindled. When the guy called back I received the call. I was angry and abused him, threatening him with a police complaint, he just laughed it off saying he doesn't know me and denied receiving any money and saying this he cut the call and hasn't received since. My mom felt very sad and apologised to me for not believing me before. I told her that it wasn't her fault and that such things can happen to anyone. 

TL/DR: My mom got scammed into giving 2.5k to a guy in lieu of tutoring his kid. I'm sharing the mobile numbers and UPI IDs of this person, if anyone gets a call from him, beware. 

Fraud's Mobile: 9648045305 (said his name is Manjeet)
Fraud's UPI: 9749375833@pnb

If you look up the mobile number in his UPI on Truecaller, you will find in comments that he has done this to others before as well.

EDIT: I did not share my UPI pin with the guy.