SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Confused about the future as a 27 year old
DATE: 2024-08-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1ejowkn/confused_about_the_future_as_a_27_year_old/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi pfi, 

I'm a 27 year old guy from a tiny city in North Bengal but currently staying in Pune. I come from lower middle class family. My dad worked as a primary school teacher as a sole earner in a family of four. 
I grew up ambitious and went on to create a career out of my hobby. I wanted to become a game designer. Went to an expensive college without learning the value of money. At the age of 17 I took a huge loan of 25 lakhs. Which ended up biting me in the ass. My dad had invested in some land for me which I used to fund my education and pay off part of the loan (14 lakhs). Sadly by the third year, the college went to shit because of a huge scam but luckily I got a fully paid scholarship in the UK for my master's.

I worked odd jobs, jobs related to my field as well as bartending, waiting, front of the house, line cook and even got a work apprenticeship with the South Wales police for some simulation dev work. I earned enough to pay off the loan and also survive in the UK pretty well. 

Right before brexit, I came back to India to work on a game with my friends.

 Half a decade has gone passed me and I'm still working on that same product. 

2 years ago, my savings ran out so I started freelancing and last year I got a full time remote EU job which pays me 1.5 lakh per month. 

I've been giving 50-60k per month to my parents and saving 20-30k per month since the last 5-6 months now but I'm a bit scared about the future

I always thought about it this way, if I focus on building my skills, I won't have to focus on worrying about money because there'll always be work available.

But that was young me, Now I'm getting a bit tired. With supporting my parents, my relationship with my girlfriend and the goal of finishing my own game with my friends, it has burnt me out massively. 

I know if I commit to my full time job, I can move to EU and make quite a bit more money. But my desire to finish my own product is also not letting me do that. Since I'm reaching the end of my 20s, my parents would like me to buy a nice car and a house and get married. Part of me would also like that. But I'm quite scared that I might end up miserable. 

However, I know I'm in a super fortunate situation but I guess I just need a bit more financial planning. So here are the things I'd like to have
- a nice used car for now (5-6 lakhs)
- preferably start saving for a small 2 bhk for my parents near Pune or Mumbai( doesn't have to be in the city)
- Some money saved for travelling(my girlfriend loves to travel but I'm scared of spending so much money)

I have about 1.3 lakhs saved as my emergency fund and nothing else. I have 50k in UTI nifty 50. What should be my next steps from here to achieve those goals? 

Thank you all for reading the huge ass post 

TLDR : Would like to save for a small car, a small house in the near future and bit of investment for any difficulties in life with an income of 1.5 lakhs per month and expenses of 70-80k per month