SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How did I get scammed?
DATE: 2022-06-30
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/vnqed9/how_did_i_get_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today I got a random robo phone call on my landline and decided to pick up. I was bored and thought I would have some fun with them, as I didn't recognize the number. 

The first person I spoke to asked "Is this \[my name\]" right when I picked up. The person had a thick Indian accent offering debt consolidation services. Ok, I'll bite. Then they asked me to verify my information. I was intrigued on what information they had on me, as they normally don't know your name to start, so I continued. I didn't provide them anything, besides responding to the affirmative. They had my name, address, phone number, date of birth, and everything being correct. Nothing too worrying as it is all public records and my number is not unlisted. I was then told that their "manager" will call me back in 20 minutes. 

This is where it gets interesting. The "manager" calls me around 20 minutes later, asking what debt I was looking to consolidate. I just pretended to be clueless and say that I want to consolidate my auto loan and credit card debt. Super generic information.

Then he acts a little bit suspicious about me. He asks which credit cards do you wish to consolidate, listing the only two banks I have a credit card with, along with the most recent monthly statement amount. He then states he doesn't see any open car loans (but sees x amount in the past). This is all correct information. He then states, in order to consolidate your credit card with x bank, the card \[he states my full credit card number\] I just need your CVC and expiration date. Thats when I hung up the call. He then proceeded to call me 19 times after that over the next couple of hours (all straight to my voicemail) lol. 

I never provided or got asked to verify my SSN, but its clear with the information they have, they definitely had it. What impressed me the most was the amount of information they had. Not only did they have my credit report, but also my full credit card number, which wouldn't just be listed on my credit report. 

For some background, back in 2021 someone filed an unemployment claim in my name, which I reported. Then a couple of months later, someone tried to open a bank account in my name. All notifications I got from my credit monitoring suite I have through my employer. I did all of the regular steps (report to IRS, FTC, 2FA on everything etc). Up until last month, my credit was frozen, but I had to unfreeze it in order to get a new car. After this call, I froze my credit again and cancelled that credit card. 

Additionally, I have been a part of one data breach involving my SSN in 2020/2021, and I know for certain that this credit card number wasn't part of that. Plus I don't use that credit card often, and never online.

I am planning on pulling my credit report next month and trying to see if it shows a soft pull is reported there. Has this happend to anyone else? Or does anyone know how they do this? I am more curious how they were able to scrap so much information about me in the span of 20 or so minutes.