SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: UP govt pushing Sambhal’s development as major religious tourism hub with Rs 400 cr investment
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-28
URL: https://theprint.in/india/up-govt-pushing-sambhals-development-as-major-religious-tourism-hub-with-rs-400-cr-investment/2891237/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Sambhal (UP), Mar 28 (PTI) The Uttar Pradesh government is undertaking a major push to develop Sambhal into a prominent destination for religious tourism, on the lines of Mathura, Varanasi and Ayodhya. Around Rs 400 crore have been allocated for the development of its religious sites, officials said.
As per Hindu belief, Sambhal is the place where the final avatar of Lord Vishnu, Kalki, will take birth. The initiative focuses on developing the city by upgrading its network of 68 identified teerth (pilgrimage sites) and 19 ancient wells.
District Magistrate Rajendra Pensiya said multiple projects are being implemented to create a religious corridor-like ecosystem to attract pilgrims from across the country and abroad.
Show Full Article
He said a major proposal worth Rs 308 crore has been approved for the construction and development of a 52-km or “24-kosi parikrama” route by the Public Works Department.
“The route will have a 10-metre-wide road, including a 7-metre blacktop and a 3-metre raised footpath, enabling devotees to undertake the parikrama on foot with ease,” Pensiya said.
Apart from this, development work have been initiated under various schemes at key religious sites, including Yamgad Teerth, Chaturmukh Brahma Koop, Pishach Mochan Teerth and Paap Mochan Teerth.
He said other sites such as Shankh Mochan Teerth, Bhadrika Ashram, Rishikesh Teerth, Rasodak Koop, Amrit Koop and Panchagni Koop are also being developed, along with the construction of Chamunda Mata temple.
Tourism-related infrastructure is also being upgraded at Surya Kund temple, as well as at Sambhaleshwar, Bhuvaneshwar and Chandreshwar temples, he added.
Facilities have also been developed at Pataleshwar Mahadev, Kalki temple and Hari Baba bandh under various schemes.
Pensiya said development work are underway at Kaila Devi temple, Manokamna temple, Kurukshetra teerth and Naimisharanya teerth with an allocation of Rs 2 crore each.
Under another Rs 30 crore plan, eight sites have been identified, including two that will be developed as dedicated tourist facilities, while six major teerths — Bhuvaneshwar, Surya Kund, Chandreshwar, Vasuki Prayag, Tarak Prayag and Vansh Gopal — will see enhanced tourism infrastructure.
“The aim is to attract more pilgrims to Sambhal and promote visits to Kalki Dham, thereby boosting the local economy and making the region economically self-reliant through tourism,” the district magistrate said.
He added that additional projects, including a proposed museum to showcase ancient artefacts found in the region, are also in the pipeline, with further budgetary allocations expected in the coming years.
Officials said the comprehensive development plan is expected to position Sambhal prominently on the religious tourism map of India while generating employment and supporting local livelihoods.
On August 7, 2025, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had described Sambhal as a deeply significant religious site for Hindus, asserting that it is “not a disputed subject, but a reality” and a symbol of faith linked to the prophesied birthplace of Lord Kalki.
The town has been in the news since November 2024 following tensions triggered by a court-ordered survey of the Shahi Jama Masjid amid claims that a Harihar temple once stood there, which led to clashes and casualties.
Adityanath in August 2025 alleged that Sambhal’s sacred identity had been historically suppressed and said, “those who have tried to hide or suppress this truth will certainly be punished for their sins”. He also reiterated the government’s resolve to restore its religious heritage and pilgrimage sites. PTI COR KIS SKY SKY
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.