SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Few people are claiming to be Amazon employees and are troubling me. Please help
DATE: 2022-09-29
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/xqpkl4/few_people_are_claiming_to_be_amazon_employees/

--- POST TEXT ---

I got a fake product from Amazon and when I tried to return it. The delivery guy took OTP from me for a new product and then refused to give me the parcel. I told him that I'll let him take the parcel back only once I get an official email from Amazon or if it shows package not delivered on my app. So after arguing with me for a while and making me talk to his supervisor who started abusing me and said things like I am fraud and he knows that and he will get me blacklisted and all of that to which I said. Do whatever you want. I am not letting the guy go without a mail / my product / or refund. . He finally gave me my parcel and left. 

Same day in the evening I get a call from someone claiming to be amazon employee and in the call he says things like an FIR against me will be filed and all of that. 
I got scared because I come from a house where police has never set a foot in the house and I didn't want cops and courts issues coming home for a frickin electric shaver and contacted Amazon that I want to settle the matter saying they can take the replacement product back if they want and I got a response that Amazon never calls from private number. It's always their system number. 

Next day I get a call again from another number claiming to be amazon guy and I asked the person for his details so I could get back to amazon support. He said he will provide all the details but first ..... In the meanwhile I was stuck up with something and asked him to call me back in 5 mins. I didn't get any calls 

Day after that ( day -3 )
I get a call from another number again claiming he is calling from Amazon. I said I was busy and he needs to send an email to me at my registered email id from his official Amazon account and blocked his number cause I didn't want to be disturbed any more. Didn't get any mails as expected. 

Today ( Day -4 ) 

I get a call from someone who claims to be talking from police station. I asked him what's the matter. He said it's regarding Amazon complaint. The manager is here. I ask him his name , designation and which station is he talking from. He said BTM layout police station and didn't give name or designation. I asked him where exactly it is ? Which station do I need to come. He kept saying come to amazon office. I asked him which office ? He said it's near some mandya hotel, I told him I don't know all that to which he said he'll send his guy to pick me up after asking where I stay. I said tell me which station to come else I am in front of a police station and can make you talk to the police guy here and he cut my call. In a minute he called me back saying that first you come here and handle the complaint. I ask him first you tell me your name , designation and station. He said pick up the Amazon managers call and disconnected the call and I blocked his number also. 

Now my issue. What do I do when these guys drop near my house ? Or keep calling me from new new numbers. It's really stressful. 

P.S : people are calling me and harassing me in the name on a fake Amazon product I returned and today went to the heights of making a fake police call. Please help me.

Update : I went to the police station. The officer told me this is not the right police station 😅 and asked me to go to another police station. Post which he asked me for the phone number from which I got the call where he said he was a police officer. The officer checked the number and said it wasn't any police guy's number and guided me that next time I get any call. I just should tell them to come to the local police station ( the station he asked me to go to ) and settle the matter there.