SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Norton year long subscription scam
DATE: 2023-12-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18dbu20/norton_year_long_subscription_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

(list of red flags) 
1. Non official email stating a transaction 
2. Provided number to call thats not listed on Nortons website 
3. Asking to install anything on your device 
4. Asking for remote connection to your device 
5. At any point if they block your screen, it is a glowing neon red flag 
(There is no reason under the sun you should not see your screen if they are able to see it, in an actual helpdesk setting theyd see the same thing youd see, update or otherwise) 
6. Generally just rude and doesnt seem professional at all.
7. Major inconsistencies in the conversation 
8. Desktop bank info not matching mobile bank info 
9. New unknown recipient text 
10. No logic to their statements 

I dont know about the rules, but these people were OK with ruining my life and making me homeless. So Im leaving the fake help line and the fake persons name. Im sure theyll be fine 

Earlier today I got this email saying I was about to be charged 299.99$ for a year of Norton security. Which freaked me out.
The first red flag was that the email was from some random guy named Denniser Garzaed. Also, the email doesnt even show up on my list anymore, I have to look at sent emails to find it. On the email was this number 1+(831)288-3208 so I called it, which was red flag number two. I should have contacted Norton from their website. 

Once I called I went through the ol classic, go on your computer and install remote software for us. Then log into your bank account. And oh my whats that? Weve blocked your screen so you cant see us adding a random zelle recipient. This part was a bit complicated though. So they tried to get me to install a client. But Norton was protecting me, funnily enough. So they had me uninstall Norton and cancel my subscription. Then they had me download the remote software and thats how they got in. Once in they even used inspect element to add a fake charge on my screen that showed the 299.99. But on my Phone I could see nothing was there. (another small red flag, always refresh the page when they let you see the screen) so then they cut my screen visibility and went to zelle on my wells fargo. 

Then they tried to send 489$ which was the max before my bank flagged them. I finally realized that under no circumstance would Norton ever need my bank account so I shut down my computer, ended the call and immediately called my bank. They were able to reverse the money transfer, but a few more seconds even and they would have ruined me finanically. Please use logic when talking to these people. They are skilless sociopaths in India who do not understand America at all. If you start to question their lies they will get angry. They will yell and avoid the question. If someone did that for an American company they would (most likely, hopefully) get in trouble. I asked him how would they charge me if I removed my debit card and he said they would just steal it from an online info agency. Which, that isnt how that works and the email on my computer isnt tied to any bank. Its a throwaway, they would literally not be able to charge anyone. 

Once I got the money back I called them and acted like nothing was wrong for a few minutes. But my blood started to boil as I could hear dozens of scammers in the background. So I called him a Benchod and let him hear the most vile hateful comments I could possibly Imagine. Which was my favorite part, because after about five minutes he goes, "You done?" And I just say "every second with me is one you dont spend with another person" and he just hung up and blocked my number. However the one I posted still works. So feel free to call them and waste their time however you please. 

All in all, it was a win for me. Norton has been slowing my computer down and I had no idea how to uninstall it so they actually helped me save money AND speed up my computer. I only play Steam games on it, so unless Steam is pushing viruses then I think ill be fine with windows defender.