SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: So this happened to me! (An awareness and appreciation post)
DATE: 2022-11-23
SCORE: 421
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/z2ggtj/so_this_happened_to_me_an_awareness_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

About two months ago, a woman joined my workplace. (It’s an academy of sorts and we have short 1-3 month courses available)

Over the next few days, She mentioned her husband worked at the customs and can get people whatever they want- gold, phones, gadgets. Even government jobs. 

They managed to convince my mother to put her entire savings into the gold at a cheaper cost through customs auction for gold and mentioned we would receive the gold by Diwali (they said it was DRI stamped and completely legal so my mum withdrew her money from the BANK and gave it to them smh) 

Come Diwali, these guys have vanished. Turns out they’ve also taken money from various other people in my organisation for multiple things. On a little more searching, found their address and found that they’ve been doing this to ALOT more people in and around their house and kids school and everything. Total scam of over a crore! 

They have beautiful home, two kids, a dog a cat a parrot with one leg. These things make them look like a normal family. And they’re so good at this scam, cos they’ve been doing the same thing since 2014. 

We filed an FIR about over 20 victims in total (that we know of) and about a week later these guys were caught. The case is still going on. 

But through all this,my friend asked me to get in touch with u/st_broseph. When I called him up, he walked me through the steps and even connected me to all the right people. Being a woman, he made sure he connected me to another woman who beautifully guided me through how things work in the legal system. And also offered his personal support if I ever needed it. 

Update to the case is that almost everyone is getting their FULL amount back which is awesome. And the scam people have been in prison for a month now with their bail appeal being rejected. 

Just wanted to share that such things horrible happen, and are done by people you would never believe would do something like this. But on the other hand, there also nice people like Broseph who is helping me pull through this. Thank you!

EDIT: been thinking about the parts where many people believe it’s naïveté to trust people so blindly, and they’re right! but I’m realising our culture teaches us to always look at the good in people, and not focus on the things that are so off. I look back and think of all the times something felt off and I told myself not to be so mean! :p all this to say, we made a mistake, but I think it comes from the flip-side of truly believing if you’re good, no one will do wrong. Sad but true. So be careful y’all :)