SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: BEWARE of ETSY *Customer Service-Helpline SCAM/FRAUD
DATE: 2024-01-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/19434ul/beware_of_etsy_customer_servicehelpline_scamfraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello All,

I just fell victim to a Etsy Customer Service scam. I typically catch these quickly, however, I had just traveled on a red eye flight with no sleep so my head was very tired and foggy. 

How it started:
I was setting up my bank account with Etsy so I can sell some clothes. For some reason the page kept freezing on me and would not load to next page. Therefore I did a customer service search and found that number on the Etsy website (link attached). Without really looking into it, I called the number and an Indian man answered as Customer Service- said he can help me but first we needed to look into my identity and go to venmo to prove my identity. So he asked me to download AnyDesk app (please don’t ever download). I did because I was half asleep and thought it was something Etsy used. He had me go to Venmo and said my account was hacked and showed me Crypto and the money amount. I had no idea what that was so I believed him. He then had me pick a person (my sister) via Venmo that I trusted to confirm my identity. He had me send her money (to confirm my identity) and she would send it back to me once confirmed. They had someone else call my sister and they told her the money I sent to her account was Bogus. So they had her transfer it to her cash app and send it to *MY* debit card which they supplied a number. I was waiting for my money back but it clearly went straight to their debit card. They also had me send money to her via cash app. Then they asked her to download AnyDesk and she refused-they started getting very aggressive and she accused them of being the scammers. She called me to ask if it was legit and we looked into it on our computers. The guy told me to stay on This one page and every time I left he snapped at me to stay on one page. So I couldn’t Google or text my sister. We both saw Etsy/AnyDesk scammers online we immediately hung up deleted the app and immediately called my bank/cash app/Venmo to cancel/dispute those charges. 

Somehow my sister missed a call and she called number back and person was confused and said he had just Been scammed out of $2500. 

I feel so violated and really stupid to say the least for falling for this. Please be aware of anyone asking to get into your phone/Venmo/cash app/emails etc… Stay safe out there. Also, my friend told me with AI, scammers are generating voices of family and asking parents and grandparents for money. Create family safe words to always confirm identity before sending any money. 

Anyhow, I filed a police report and supplied them link and phone numbers. Hopefully they can catch those bastards. I hate knowing they are scamming so many ppl out there. 

Here are the numbers.
From Ojai +1 (805) 669-4740
From Washington (202)-324-3000

Be Safe out there!