Dear sir/madam my name is chanderhas. Presently I am working in indian airforce, now a days I am on leave. I have given a request for a personal loan on quikr.com on 1 september. On 2 september I have received a call from janalaxami finanace company, it was regarding my personal loan. A lady named ankita called me she told me that she got my profile from quikr.com and she approved my loan through her company, after that she asked me for some documents like my aadhar, pan, photo, last 3months bank statement, I have send her all my documents on her whatsapp no. her contact no. is [protected]. After that she asked me for 3000 rs for processing fees. She gave me two bank account details, these are 1. Axis bank, holder name - gaurav choudhary, account no. – [protected], ifsc – utib0002504. Other is idbi bank, holder name – jitender kumar sagar, account no. is – [protected], ifsc code is – ibkl0000349. After successful transaction of 3000 rs she gave me a loan application ref. no. that is – 2068757. After that she asked me for 15000 rs. To forwarding my file and advocate charges after that A subsidiary sanction letter issued to me on my mail id from kvic of pmepg loan scheme, on that letter a collateral money I have paid of 24000 rs and at last I have paid a 30000 rs. For disbursement of my loan. She has given me another number of Archana goyal branch head Bengaluru, her contact no. is [protected]. I called her, she told me that nothing gone wrong, I am branch head, 30000 rs for bank charges. After that from last day I have called her she replied me that process is going on. But nothing going on exactly, she fraud with me. Please help me out as soon as possible and do necessary enquiry, I have an another contact no. of her collegue from jana laxami finance company. Named shobha. I have done a total transaction of 72000 in that accounts. I have attached the original sanction letter which is received by me. Now her contact number is on. But she is out from whatsapp. sir i have a pdf format of that letter not a photo