SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Sextortion, cyberbullying,sexual Harrassment and many more
DATE: 2024-12-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1h4r0uw/sextortion_cyberbullyingsexual_harrassment_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, it's a long ass story, so my ex came back to me after cheating on me, getting married and whatever else. I was moving on. I was happy. Then she send me a text which was almost a suicide letter to me so that i would text back (from a different acc bc i blocked her everywhere else). And so my ex was cheating on her wife with me now (i wasnt fully aware of the situation, she lied that they were getting a divorce, i know it's wrong but she would threaten suicide if i leave or tell her wife.). I told her wife and she started emotionally torturing me with suicide threats and verbally abused me. After that she and her wife made an email to bully me and her wife would pretend to be the ex and say very inappropriate stuff. Which was gross and beg for nudes. I couldn't take all this bullying anymore so i told my ex to fuck off from my life and she made a new Instagram account to text me? Which was also managed by the wife? I mean i told her i am not into whatever tf is up but she'd send me unsolicited sexual remarks and whatever. Then it turned into calling me names and emotionally abusing me. 2 days ago she tried to call me? to engage in sexual stuff w her? I didn't answer so she started sending me audios and videos of them having sex 😭😭😭 which was ew. I never asked to be part of this. I saved everything and told her i will report her at work and send it to her family (she's an airmen in the usaf) and she started threatening me about leaking my nudes (i didn't send anything after she came back this time around so it might be old). We broke up on September bc of her cheating on me w her now wife. Then when i questioned it she coerced me into suicide and threatened about the nudes but i let it go. But i dont want let this go. She admitted to coming back to just hurt me (but before her wife found out she was scared of going to jail for adultery, military law ig idk). So idk the truth and idc. I want your opinion on this. Where can i report this. They told me they deleted everything but i dont trust them at all. She is manipulative asf lol. She denied everything even though there is proof for everything. She is a compulsive liar too. Ik im too dumb to fall for her manipulation 

One wrong thing i did was making a new account to text the wife to tell her about the suicide threat bc i was genuinely scared bc i wasnt in the country and she wasn't responding. 

(Oh btw we were ldr and this all happened online im from india and my ex is American)

(You can read about the shit show of a breakup in my old posts)