SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] (Rant) Fuck gated societies
DATE: 2018-02-15
SCORE: 106
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7xsaig/np_rant_fuck_gated_societies/

--- POST TEXT ---

I moved (rented) into this gated "society" in Bangalore. These are their general rules (this a gem please read): https://imgur.com/mll848J

This is the shit that I had to deal with :

1. Move in charge of ₹2500 + 14% service tax (this was pre GST) = ₹2850 You will not even be allowed to step into the apartment if you do not pay it. When I asked what the move in charge was for, the guard tells me it is because we use the elevators to move in our stuff and the elevators _might_ get damaged. I would buy into this shit if I had any some stuff, but the apartment I have rented out comes with all furniture and I literally had 2 suitcases and one empty bucket. When I asked them what service they were providing since they are charging service tax, they refused to answer and said I had to pay up if I wanted to go to my apartment. (All this information was not provided to me before moving in by my landlord or the existing occupants when we finalised the rental agreement)

2. Before one moves in, the landlord must mail the society association about that (fair enough). Now my landlord was not in India for the two weeks around my move in date, so I he did not mail anyone and I was carrying my rental agreement as a proof (in addition there were other guys who were already living in the apartment, and could testify that I was not an imposter). Despite this they did not let me move in and I was practically homeless till the landlord mailed the association. 

3. Another rule : People can only get their "move-in" vehicles and move their stuff at a certain stipulated time (again, fair enough for people moving in with lot of stuff, so that the residents are not disturbed). I got there one hour after the designated move in time, because Bangalore traffic, But my move in vehicle was my friend's Maruti Alto and my heavy, noisy move-in luggage was two suitcases and one bucket.

4. I am unmarried and barely 24 and as soon as I reached my apartment doors there was this stereotypical "high-income", "fake-accent" aunty and her grumpy husband commenting on how the society is overrun with bachelors. I am just moving in to a new house and this is the shit I have to listen to already! Now, of the 6 apartments on our floor (4 of which are "bachelor infested") this aunty's family is the noisiest and has the worst garbage disposal habits (her filth lying all around in the corridor). 

5. To access the swimming pool and the gym, you need to get an NOC from multiple sources and get it checked and stamped (it is a two week long procedure). Also,before accessing these facilities, the guard will ask you whether or not you are a bachelor. I had to write my marital status when I went to "apply" for an NOC, so now I use a gym which is half a kilometre from my place, charges less than ₹1000 per month, has better facilities and had none of this bullshit.

6. This is not related to my directly, but this makes my blood boil : All the domestic help and delivery boys (and anyone who looks poor) are frisked at the gates. All cab drivers need to be checked. If they do not look poor, they are good to go

I do not understand this elitism that these people of gated societies have. What is this sense of achievement and exclusivity these folks have living in an expensive-ass overpriced apartment complex!

Even after this why would I live here? My office is in a particularly polluted and dusty (and generally badly planned) area in Bangalore and place is 3 km (1 hour commute time) from my work. Now I am really sensitive to pollution + sinusitis + skin and hair problem (which are aggravated by the dust and pollution here), so I moved to the cleanest and most affordable place available. I hate gated societies but this is the only place I could find which was close enough to work and was. The day I find a place that is not a gated society and is relatively pollution free, I will move out. A lot of people argue that if I need all this, I should be willing to conform. I disagree. Why should we have to pay for clean air?