SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Terrible Experience with PhonePe as NRI
DATE: 2024-12-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1hq7c5b/terrible_experience_with_phonepe_as_nri/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm a US based NRI , who has visited india for 5 weeks.During my visit couple of years ago , I was really frustrated that UPI didn't work with NRI accounts and I had to carry cash everywhere I go.I lost money everywhere I went due to lack of "change" while dealing with variety of people,from streetside coconut seller to well established shops.

So this time , I was excited to hear that finally UPI works with my NRI accounts with a US number.I've installed the PhonePe app and installation went smoothly. After landing in Bangalore, I tried purchasing a few things for a petty amount in the airport and nearby places. It worked flawlessly and I was pleasantly surprised.Then I booked a cab to my native place from Bangalore.

When I arrived at my native place , I tried paying 10500 Rs via PhonePe app. It took about a minute and after that it displayed a message saying the transaction is in processing state. I saw that money hadn't been received by the driver on his phone.Then the cab driver suggested to me that we can easily cancel the prior transaction and ask me to send money again. Naive me , attempted to send the money again, but that also stuck in the "processing state". 

I didn't attempt it for the third time , so I paid the full amount in cash.Then I attempted to raise a help ticket , asking them to cancel both the transactions. I've noticed that Money has been deducted from my account for both the transactions , but it hasn't reached the driver.

After 48 hours,I saw tickets were closed and money wasn't credited to my account. I tried calling PhonePe customer care.But unfortunately it asks us to input an Indian phone number during the initial stage and I couldn't input my American Number. I called the cab driver asking whether he has received the money.He admitted that he has received the money from both the transactions and promised me to pay back within a couple of days as there is little issue in his bank accounts. 

He transferred 10500s after 2 days and told me that he will repay the rest within a week , as money is deducted for his EMI payment. I trusted him as he already repaid 10500 Rs once. After a week he kept on postponing the repayment for multiple different reasons.  A week before my departure back to the US , I was calling him daily multiple times.But I haven't received even a dime back.

Since I was too busy on my trip to India , I couldn't spend much time visiting police stations to retrieve the money back. Now I'm wondering what are the options I've infront of me, since I'm not physically present in india.

Going to consumer court is a long and expensive process. I'm also thinking of raising a cyber crime complaint as the transaction is made digitally. 

Any suggestions on how to deal with this case , while not being present in india?