SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Am I being financially exploited ?
DATE: 2024-09-23
SCORE: 283
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1fnqujl/am_i_being_financially_exploited/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am 28M making about 24LPA+6LPA in RSU.
I have a brother who is 26 now. 

 I am earning from when I was 21(2017) and I contributed some amount to my family as I was living with them, about 5k from 30k salary. Plus I did a few purchases like phones and TVs for them. 

When I was 23(2019), my brother decided to study his UG abroad he was 21 when he left and till that time he did nothing productive.
We could not afford overseas education so I protested against it especially after knowing my brother’s lazy nature. Yet he was sent to pursue his education. So now I had to take pay 15K-20K every month plus pick up some utilities like electricity,Wifi and mobile bills. 

It went on fine for next 2 years thats when I knew my mom lost everything she had on a scam. We live in a nicer rented house while our house is rented out, so my dad with the rent takes care of the loans that he got for the fees and now I have to take care of all the expenses. Then only I found my mom was taking care of other half from payouts by a scammer and that scammers took everything and ran away. 

So far the past 2 and half years I am paying for everything which is costing me 70-90K a month whereas my brother gets to chill and my parents get to play with their money as they see fit. So i felt so stressful and a argument with my parents so now they gave me a cash of 5L and a piece of land worth 10L where I have to do the registration and stuff. 

I am feeling trapped and unfairly treated by parents. My brother is 26 and still has no degree or job but i had to take care of all the expenses at that age. I had to pay for my keep at 24 while he just gets to chill. 

My parents too arent ready to cut down on anything or sell something and settle off my brothers loan. They arent even asking him to work as he is sitting idly without a degree. 

I feel like every body gets to do what they want but I am the one being trapped. 

Am I trapped or is it fair ?? Please help me understand this. 

Sorry for long post.