SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank Account Frozen Due to Rs. 60 Transaction on Google Pay
DATE: 2024-12-18
SCORE: 52
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1hgyhh0/bank_account_frozen_due_to_rs_60_transaction_on/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello Reddit,

I’m dealing with a very frustrating and urgent issue, and I need your advice on how to proceed. Here’s the detailed situation:

On Friday 13th December, I received an SMS from IndusInd Bank informing me that my account had been frozen for debit transactions following a complaint from the State Police. The bank stated that the freeze was due to a Rs. 60 transaction made to my shop's Google Pay UPI account by a person, which is allegedly linked to a fraud investigation.

I had no way of knowing that this Rs. 60 transaction could be related to fraud. It seems like a small, insignificant amount, and I had no reason to believe it was anything suspicious. Upon contacting the bank, I learned that the freeze was requested by the cyber police, and the transaction in question was said to be the 5th layer transaction from one that was flagged as fraudulent by the police.

I decided to visit the Cyber Police station here in Bhagalpur to inquire about the matter. To my surprise, the officer there informed me that the request to freeze my account came from Karauli in Rajasthan and said that they can't do anything and I need to go to Rajasthan. We then contacted the Rajasthan Cyber Cell with the help of some people in Rajasthan, and they were very cooperative and agreed to remove the freeze on my account, but they require an email from the Bhagalpur Cyber Police to proceed.

Now, here’s where the problem has escalated: When we returned to the police station in Bhagalpur to have the email sent, the sub-inspector there flat-out refused to send the email. Why? Everyone knows why right? This is India. That too Bihar. The police can't just help a genuine person, without a few pieces of the paper with Gandhi's photo. 

I tried to persuade the Bank too, to unfreeze the account considering I am a customer for the bank for last 8 years. Should I lodge a formal complaint with the RBI Ombudsman portal? This is basically harassment at this point. 

Has anyone faced a similar situation? What are my options now? Is there any way to escalate this issue, perhaps to higher authorities or take legal action? How can I get the Bhagalpur Cyber Police to fulfill their role and send the email to the Rajasthan Cyber Cell?