SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: DMK hits back at Palaniswami over remarks on alliance partners
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/dmk-hits-back-at-palaniswami-over-remarks-on-alliance-partners/2889159/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chennai, Mar 26 (PTI) The ruling DMK on Thursday slammed AIADMK General Secretary Edappadi K Palaniswami over his comments on its alliance partners and termed it as “unnecessary.” Senior party leader and state Transport Minister S S Sivasankar also criticised the AIADMK, stating that the future of the party would be similar to the situation like that of JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar in Bihar and also the Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra and the state of regional parties in Goa that were “swallowed” by the BJP while being in an alliance with them.
Ridiculing Palaniswami for criticising Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), a key ally of the DMK, Sivasankar said, “VCK is a party that has grown step-by-step by facing challenges in the electoral field.” “Its leader, Thol Thirumavalavan, proves his victory in the elections every time and is recognised today by our leader. ” “Palaniswami criticises this alliance which has such a good relationship. In his alliance, Palaniswami has not only given more seats to the BJP than last time, but a situation has arisen where many parties are contesting under the BJP’s symbol, which is Lotus,” he told reporters.
Besides the BJP, the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar), Thamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi (IJK) and Pudhiya Neethi Katchi were contesting under the BJP’s Lotus symbol, Sivasankar said.
Show Full Article
“Palaniswami has given a very large space in Tamil Nadu to Lotus which secured position below NOTA in past election,” he said.
Continuing his tirade, Sivasankar said the AIADMK’s allies — Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar), India Jananayaga Katchi, Tamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and Pudhiya Needhi Katchi are contesting under the Lotus symbol of the BJP.
“He (Palaniswami) has provided a large space in Tamil Nadu to the Lotus symbol, which was previously placed below NOTA. He is repeatedly making it clear that the future of AIADMK will be the same as the situation that befell Nitish Kumar in Bihar, the situation faced by the Shiv Sena and the Sharad Pawar parties in Maharashtra and the state of regional parties in Goa that were swallowed by the BJP while being in alliance with them,” he said.
Responding to Palaniswami’s claims that the DMK had neglected development in Chennai, senior DMK leader Sekarbabu said, “Under the Chief Minister (M K Stalin’s), the magnificent Vada Chennai Valarchi Thittam (North Chennai Developmental Scheme) was launched.” According to him, the scheme has improved the quality of life in North Chennai, where safe drinking water, smooth sewage flow and uninterrupted power supply are being provided.
“Schools have been upgraded on par with the private schools,” he told reporters here.
On the city’s infrastructure, the Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments said new stormwater drains running upto several kms have been laid in Chennai.
He also cited the inauguration of a bridge in T Nagar here to ease traffic congestion.
Recalling Palaniswami’s 2021 election claim that Rs 1,000 crore has been spent on stormwater drains, Sekarbabu pointed out that despite that Chennai has suffered during the first heavy rainfall.
“A committee was formed and based on the recommendations, stormwater structures were built and as a result of desilting of ponds, lakes and canals, the government has prevented flooding and raised city’s groundwater levels,” he said. PTI VIJ SA VIJ ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.