SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need advice with regards to divorce 
DATE: 2024-08-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ezn566/need_advice_with_regards_to_divorce/

--- POST TEXT ---

I (32,F) had a very troublesome 8 years of "love" marriage, I went through alot of mental, physical, emotional harassment. 

Physical: We didn't consummate our marriage till 3 years because of some physical issues with my husband and even after that we only had sex hardly 10 times in 8 years, that too when I begged.

Mental: I had no clue for these 3 years what is wrong and why we don't have a "normal" marriage. He kept his issues hidden and this led to alot of frustration and fights, ultimately pushing me towards depression and anxiety. He cheated on me - called prostitutes at home when I was not there; I found cropped picture of my sister in his phone, he was a porn addict (although this doesn't come under cheating, but this definitely was mentally harassing for me because I felt ugly and my self motivation was dead because I could see that my husband is not interested in me but the ladies in the digital world)

Emotional : In past 8 years I have cried literally every other week and he never bothered. He would lie on people's face without any shame. He would not hesitate to blame game me for nonsense reasons. I tried to seek help from his parents but they literally stayed quiet and ultimately boycotted me. They are very much into pandits and even black magic and made me do nonsense pooja's and their pandit once even took the undergarments that I was wearing to help me get rid of some pregnant witch who wants me to die and what not!!
We moved abroad because my husband got a job and I had to quit my high paying job just to try one last time and as soon as we landed he showed his true colors and started taunting me on money as well and how because of him I was able to move out of country and ultimately asked for divorce. 

I moved back home and filed for divorce wherein I have asked for the jewellery and 40L expenses that we incurred during wedding. I really want them to suffer the way I did but I don't want to waste another 2-3 years in court cases. 

I have no interest in his money but I really want to give him and his family a hit on their ego so we quoted this amount. 

Does anyone has any suggestions or what else can I do or maybe what are the odds that can go against me in this situation.