Hi Sir/Madam, My self RAMKRISHNA DATTATRAY RAYSING My IR ID IN991845 i have been made to invest in QNET Investment RS 2, 77, 250.00 by giving improper/incorrect/incomplete knowledge of this company (Eg.They have not informed the company name while i ask to them after collecting my amount RS- 2, 77, 250.00).my friend ( Krushna Gulab Patil IR ID - IN659243 ) said, i am doing business i will arrange meeting with my Business partner, she will tell about business.I am attend the meeting. But they didn't clearly say anything to me about the business. In the meeting Pradnya patil (upline) said, "we tyup with many manufacturing company and we generating revenue, thereby we get 10-15% Amount from the company", Our business have a portal like a amazon, flipkart.., this is the process.They are brainwashed me.Then krushna patil asked( RS.2, 77, 250.00) need to pay for portal open, so send me amount. I am asked, why do I pay for money? Krushna patil said we need to open a portal for you that's why you need to pay (RS.2, 77, 250.00I said I don't have an amount and I don't need business. Again again he called me.And he brainwashed me. Krushna said take bank loan, you will pay in one year full payment in preclose method.Because business potential profit is big, we earn amount 4.8 crore in 5 years.Then i take a loan amount from the BAJAJ finance And And sold Also jwelary In 22 December 2021 I am transforred RS 2, 77, 250.00 from State Bank of India to Qnet Bank Account no giving ID. And he asked me to send a passport size photo, Aadhar card, Pan card, nominee, mobile number. I am also giving the information.Without my knowledge Krushna patil ordered for me the products. and i get a product from the parcel, I am asked to the parcel man we not ordered anything and we don't payed nothing. The parcel man said already paid for that parcel.Then i got the parcel, and i discussed that parcel with krushna.krushna said, "the parcel is a gift for you to join the business. Every person who joins the business gets points so the company gives the gift to the person. That's why you get the gift". I said Do i need need to pay for the gift?. Krushna said "No need to pay for the parcel of gift, Company offered for you the gift". I got-product from VIHAN DIRECT SELLING(INDIA)PVT LTD Products: I got- ORDER NO DN[protected] watches, ORDER NO - DN64829121 Nutriplus good health combo 1 set But this product I was already couriered Back to the VIHAAN DIRECT SELLING INDIA PVT LTD And sent mail to to company For cancellation my All purchase Order with my IR ID IN991845 Because this system is very fraud they never said to us About company profile and business it's fully networ marketing company it's very Big Scam happened with me (upline). Dr.pradnya patil asked me, Every day in the evening join a meeting and call to friends and speak with their casual conversation about the business. I asked Pradnya why I spoke with my friends. Pradnya asked me If friends joined in the business we would get an amount. I said I am not joining my friends in this business. What is the process for this business? They did not speak clearly about the business. " My refund request sent within 30 days I was Already couriered Back to the company products. I contact every day to customer care number but they only said your case is under process but not give mi Assurance About my refund. They Also said My Name is incorrect on their portal was requested for the change My name As per my documents. They changed my name As per Pan card. I also sent my cancel cheque but now company said your Pan card name and your bank details name is not match.my name as per pan card RAMKRISHNA D RAYSING and my Name As per My Aadhar card is RAMKRISHNA DATTATRAY RAYSING I Also provided my AADHAR CARD for change my name but I don't have reply About that the process is allready very delay I have to request you please take My case on priority basis and resolve My problem. I contact every day but they said We don't have any confirmation From logistic department, they said We waiting for the confirmation From logistic department.when we will get the confirmation we will forward your case Finance department.. For the emergency process I need my full amount RS.2, 77, 250.00 Please understand my situation. am paying loan monthly EMI. Please take my case and resolve as soon as possible. I have attached my proofs. Kindly verify. WhatsApp proofs, Email proofs also. Thanks& Regards., Ramkrishna Dattatray Raysing IR ID IN991845 QNET customer support has been notified about the posted complaint. Complaint comments Add a Comment ShareTweet Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)