SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Where do you stay?
DATE: 2024-01-15
SCORE: 104
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/196y1ez/where_do_you_stay/

--- POST TEXT ---

Accomodation is big crisis in bangalore. Based on my experience in the city, I have a few learnings that I think I can share. Please feel free to add on in comments.

You landed in bangalore being clueless and tight on a budget. You don't know anyone and living in a hotel temporarily.

Your options
1.Local PG - near tech parks
2.Startup PG - visit and book online

Many people are asking about PGs, request the commentprs to name drop some pg dense places in the city, Prasanth, marathalli, e city. I will add to the post.

You have been living in a pg and don't like invasion of privacy. Don't like food. Willing to spend on some personal space but don't wish to go overboard. You might be married and both of you earn don't wish to go crazy on rent. 

Your options - (only worth if it's near your office)
1.Commercial Rental in a standalone 
furnished/unfurnished.
2.Rental unit in a independent house 

You are living in standalone, but have found a group of friends. Commute is not an issue as you prefer living near metros but also value safety and privacy, also chores seem to much.

Your options 
1.Flat and Flatmates - managed/unmanaged 
2.Independent house - cheaper option but living alone is not preferred

You tried everything and decide you don't want to deal with people on daily basis. Willing to rent/furnish your place and live in peace proly in a gated community but on a budget.

Your options
Flat in a building - Move 5kms away from tech parks, major metros and if you can't manage to be near a bus stop, rent a vehicle or buy one.

You live a little away from office but can't deal with daily commutes, frequent rent raises, problematic owners. You think you're paying way too much in rents and in a manageable spot in your work, saved up some money.

Your option (controversial but makes sense to me with significant increase in rents)
1. Buy in your budget with all varying factors - builders, commute, facilities, demand. Etc

DO's and DON'TS

Vet your owners, always meet them, be nice. They are judging you, you should also judge them if they won't scam you. Cordial is good enough. This is a big problem with commercial rentals as this is a business for them and they won't leave a single penny for you to take back. "2500 for toilet cleaning" huh?!

First option and the option taken in a hurry is always the worst option. Take your time, if you know someone who already lives in a place they can vouch for, it becomes a lot easier for you to keeps tabs on any vacant places and also not get scammed into paying more. 

Brokers can help but don't take their word for it. If location is a priority they will definitely find options based on your needs. They will help deal with the owners. They don't come cheap. Imagine paying 15-50k to a broker. No, right? Negotiate your way. Always prefer brokers with a fix charge than pay whole month rent. 500 for a few visits, okay fine?! 5k if you get a house through them. Sure. 

Be aware of scams, don't make any payment to anyone before you have seen your house/room/bed. Always ask for videos of place beforehand and try not to go alone to private spaces. 

If you're not sure if you want to be here, don't even bother looking at rentals. Just stay in a newly built pg, if you just move 3km you might just find a better place for your buck. PG is the most low risk option. 

Security deposit, people hardly get back. You live for one month, the moment you move into the house (one month rent+ charges) are already gone from your security. Always negotiate for 2-3 months security. Don't put 1 lakhs rupees into someone's bank just because they asked for it. 

Be fair to your owners, if you don't create problems for them, even if there's 1% chance they will treat you differently, take it. Rest is just pure luck. Blore has become a very capitalist place where niceties are almost lost in the money game. Doesn't mean there aren't nice people. But do stand your ground when you are right.

Rental agreements are tricky sometimes. Always read and make your friends and family read before you sign anything. If you find any discrepancy in what was being discussed then it is a red flag. Painting charge ? Please mention. Maintenance? Deduction? Lock-in? Electricity charge? Water bill? Make sure you know and understand everything. Always ask them to mention refunds, method of payment (difficult but nobody has time to get 20k in cash) Take readings of meters, and document all transactions, receipts. Keep additional Xerox of agreement.

Shifting - get the best deal possible, don't move alone and call your friends even if are just going to stand there, tip the workers for their service. Pack important stuff yourself and keep it safe. 

Furnishing - if you're here temporarily (less than a year) don't buy stuff and create a headache for yourself. Do a simple analysis, compare cost of buying vs renting for a year. If you think you can wrap up in 15% margin, by all means buy. For example the stuff you need rents up to 40k in rent for a year (your share alone), that is your budget if you wanna buy. At the end of the year, you can sell it or give it to your friends assuming you took it for rent. Living with friends, of course everything is divided so it makes sense to rent a fridge, washing machine or even buy. 

Last but not the least, if you start facing issues at any point, it's time to start looking for options. Nothing is worth more than your mental peace.