SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Negative Experience with Smallcase and Alok Jain (Weekend Investing)
DATE: 2025-02-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1is6n1i/negative_experience_with_smallcase_and_alok_jain/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, this post is a precautionary measure for all those who are thinking of investing - or are currently invested in Smallcases. 

Here's the thing - when it's a bull run - the returns are great. I have been using 2 smallcases maintly - a large cap momentum one and a mid-small cap momentum. Both had given me at its peak almost a 34% CAGR over the past 2 years. During the current market bloodbath over the past few months, I noticed something interesting which these people just don't clarify to us retail investors. 

 
"Rebalancing" - wow what a term. Over the past 3 months, I'm seeing my overall returns decrease, and because many of these smallcases are rebalanced weekly (and they have to rebalance based on whatever shit algorithm they decide to deploy) - every week especially in a bear market, the sell 5-6 stocks at a major loss, and buy 5-6 stocks instead. 

 
When they do this, without even informing us - the total amount invested reduces drastically, while there is no explanation for why there is no change in the return percentage. 

 
So, I had approx 8L invested in the mid-smallcap small case, and overtime, because of the rebalancing on losing stocks, my overall investment has become 5.2L now - and they show returns based on this. So while my overall loss is wayyyy higher, it shows a miniscule loss percentage on smallcase. 

 
Alok Jain from Weekend Investing decides to buy and sell stocks on a weekly basis, which puts a loss on our account, buy back something else and keep the train going. This is not illegal or Ponzi, but if you're like me and you didn't understand what was going on - you can be in deep shit.

 
I'm not saying its a scam. But they really don't explain this stuff in simple terms. My portfolio was at 19L total, it's down to 14L now and I just now realised what's been going on. 

 
Please research and understand all these charges, and if you're someone who's new to the investing world - my humble request is for you to not be allured by higher returns. Diversify well. Stick to mutual funds. Whether you have a short term or a long term portfolio - look at investing a certain percentage into debt/arbitrage funds - I promise you it'll serve you well in time.