SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Got scammed by agents for college admission, devastated, helpp
DATE: 2023-10-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/175mki9/got_scammed_by_agents_for_college_admission/

--- POST TEXT ---

My friend didn't qualify for any of his engineering exams and scored 89.8% in boards. So it was a collective decision of his family to get him admitted through management quota in a decent college in Bangalore (BMS College of engineering)
He tried contacting the college multiple times via emails and calls (as he lives in Delhi) during the month of August but failed everytime, nobody picked up and he didn't receive any mails back. His dad then found an agent's number on Google and they agreed upon INR 6 lakhs donation + the admission fees. The guy kept reassuring him that he has got this and doesn't even have to pay upfront any thing to these people and just would have to draft a DD under the college name (in future when asked and a letter comes something like that). He said this in August and kept giving him dates like you can do this on Saturday just wait and when the Saturday would arrive then next Monday and it kept going like this for another month, then my friend was told that it's final around 12-14 Sep pls be in the city, you will get your approved documents that you will show to the college office and finally get admitted. 

So the entire family goes to see him off thinking it's done. 
But when they reach there, those people start doing the same thing that wait till this date that day. And they take all his legal documents like Board results, school leaving certificate etc.. So after staying in blr for almost ten days my friend is asked to stay in the city by those people and the parents come back to Delhi. These people keep assuring them that the dates are extended and college is to reopen on this day that day again the same bs. (But it is true that the college opening dates where extended by the college itself and a final date has been announced as 11th October, before this the official date was 29th of September and so on). Even those people got my friend a pg, near college (like they helped him get settled their)

Fast forward to another month, on 10th October the parents goes to blr to get the admission procedure going cause the agent said that on 11th the admission is final. And mind you they haven't taken a dime from them just kept giving false reasurance and the entire time held onto my friend's legal documents. 
I seriously don't understand what they want. Like they could have done some money fraud but no they just kept reassuring that they have seats and the letters getting allocated by the chairperson, they will receive it in a few days or so. I mean I don't understand. So now on 11th of October when the mother visits the office ( he literally has big office in hsr layout) the guy straight up refuses and says he doesn't have no seats. I am so confused. Like what dose he gets out of this. 
 
One last thing he also asked them to pay 25 lakhs in donation for CS core branch. Is it what it is all about to get him to pay more money but my friend's parents don't have the money to literally pay 25lakh donation upfront even to the college. It doesn't make sense to me cause those people have it as their job they have like a huge office and with good no. of staff. How does it work out for them. And is their no value of words like wtf.

Please if someone else faced a similar situation, please do let me know if there's still a possibility of admission. Is it all just a fraud ( of a really weird nature)?? Is there any other way to take admission this year ??