SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Gurugram police arrest five in cyber-fraud cases with links to Philippines, Cambodia
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/india/gurugram-police-arrest-five-in-cyber-fraud-cases-with-links-to-philippines-cambodia/2894389/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Gurugram, Apr 1 (PTI) Gurugram police said on Wednesday they have busted a cyber-fraud racket with links to the Philippines and Cambodia and arrested five people for using and delivering illegal SIM boxes.
The devices — also known as GSM gateways — are primarily used to hold several SIM cards and make international calls appear as domestic.
The SIM boxes were supplied through the China-Nepal-Bihar route and used to commit cybercrimes, including call diversion, police said.
Show Full Article
A recovery of 13 SIM boxes, seven Wi-Fi TAPO cameras, 30 batteries, 504 SIM cards and other equipment was made. Police also seized 2,258 recharged fake SIM cards used for digital arrests and various cybercrimes.
The operation started after four house owners in Gurugram filed complaints stating their tenants were illegally operating SIM boxes in their houses.
After this, police conducted raids at the rented houses where they found illegal devices which were allegedly used in cybercrimes.
Five accused, including a woman, were arrested in connection with the case, identified as Rahul Kumar, Yash Amrit Singh Dugar, Bhavika Ramesh Bhagchandani, Sagar and Litesh Two accused were arrested from Gujarat, one from Uttar Pradesh and one from Maharashtra. Sagar, however, was arrested from Gurugram, police said.
Two separate FIRs have been registered and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been formed under ACP Cyber Priyanshu Dewan, according to officials. During interrogation, Rahul allegedly revealed he had been in contact with a person in the Philippines through one of his associates, from whom he received the SIM boxes, routers and other equipment in Gurugram.
He allegedly set up the devices in the U Block area and Chakkarpur, checking the SIM boxes through video calls with the Filipino man and receiving money in exchange for his activities.
Sagar had a rented room and an internet connection in his name. Bhavika was in touch with an accomplice in Cambodia, while Yash facilitated the exchange of USDT for rupees, according to police.
The investigation also revealed that the accused were involved in “cyber slavery” — sending individuals to Cambodia to commit cybercrimes, they added.
“We are investigating all aspects and are working to nab other members of the gang,” DCP East Gaurav Rajpurohit said. PTI COR SMV PRK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.