SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Company asking me to pay an obnoxious amount for MacBook Air repair for no fault of mine and things getting weird.
DATE: 2024-03-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bjmcip/company_asking_me_to_pay_an_obnoxious_amount_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

My MacBook Air 13” 128GB (2018) was getting heated up when I was recording and sharing my screen as well on video calls. I raised a request for the concerned team to look into this. They came back to me saying we don’t have a spare machine at the moment. Alternatively, I requested for a cool pad which should help me temporarily.

They suggested me to wait a few days so they could arrange a spare and get the current one serviced at the Apple service centre. Few weeks later, I migrated the data in the spare MacBook Pro 2015 and handed over my laptop. A week later, they came to me saying the laptop’s display, battery and motherboard has to be replaced.

I suggested them that the laptop otherwise is fine, and only when I use it for a couple of hours doing resource intensive tasks, it heats up and starts lagging. There is absolutely no need to make these repairs and you can return it back to me and give me a cool pad instead which costs 650rs. and I’m good to go. But the admin team said, “this doesn’t fit into our policy and we need you to work without worrying about the hardware, let us take care of it”

One week passed by, the admin came back to me saying, “Apple Service Centre has suggested that there are some accidental damages to the laptop due to which the battery has leaked and other electronics have been ruined. As per our asset management policy, in case of accidental damages the employ needs to pay for the repairs. Give me one good reason why we should not make you pay for the repairs.” I was taken aback, not only I kept using my laptop for weeks after raising the issue, I also handed my old laptop after proper data migration and reset. If the battery had actually leaked, how could I possible use the laptop for such a long time?

I agree that the laptop had a huge dent at the base, but that happened 3 years ago when I had to carry my laptop on site for work and I had proactively informed them about the damage along with pictures and offer to pay for the damages as it was my fault. And this has been documented in the annual asset review process. 

Today I escalated the issue with her manager who also happens to be the COO of the company and he’s also my manager. He said, “I’m aware of the situation and have read the report shared by Apple service centre. The damages seem extreme and we may have to enforce the policy. But let me speak with her first.” The admin then called me up and shared an update that they are going ahead with repairing the laptop and regarding the policy we’ll need a few weeks to work it out. 

1. I have been asking for the report from the COO and the admin but he said she will share it. She says, I’ll have to check if I’m allowed to share it and how much can I share. I haven’t received the report yet. 

2. They weren’t even sharing an estimate for repair. I said, “there is a possibility that I may have to pay, so I have the right to know the cost of repair.” After much insisting, she shared the estimated cost of repair which comes to around 52000. I immediately asked her, “do you have a business justification to spend 52000 on a 7 year old MacBook Air which today costs less than half of what you’re spending?” I don’t know why I asked this, but she had no answer told me she’d get back to me on this. 

Help me out guys, I don’t know what happens next and what should I do. 

Tldr: I asked for a cool pad, company suggested to send the laptop for service. Service centre sent an absurd estimate and now I am being asked to pay for the repairs.