SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Very humbling experience 
DATE: 2024-08-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1exwxdx/very_humbling_experience/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today I needed medicines for my uncle and we have recently shifted so not much aware of local medical stores. So we have ordered them from the pharmacy where we regularly take out medicines from and booked a Rapido to get it delivered. 

I had booked a Rapido and the called the driver before he reached the pharmacy to confirm whether he is willing to deliver to my location as it was raining. He politely refused and cancelled the ride. Now I had tried for another ride where the rider has agreed to deliver. Then he goes on to pick up the medicines also gave me confirmation. And then suddenly I received a call from him saying his phone battery is on 1% I asked him to come to nearby landmark I’ll pick it up from there to which he didn’t respond and hung up. I tried to call him back to back for like 30 times in 30 minutes. (I have been a victim of cyber fraud before so I don’t really trust anyone) I was sure till this point that it was a scam as the medicines were very expensive and they had the bill in the cover with them. 

My mom is a very optimistic person and she dealt with this matter from here. After half an hour we received a call from him saying he will charge his phone and come to our location, which again I did not believe because his location was far away from the pharmacy. My mom spoke to him told him he can charge his phone and have dinner meanwhile but just to remember that those medicines are really important for the patient. The guy had agreed and within 10 mins he started moving towards our location. (I couldn’t trust him until he actually arrived) 

Now after 50 mins roughly we receive a call for final directions and we were shocked when he reached. It was a college going kid roughly 16-17 accompanied by 13-14 year old holding the phone to guide him. I was shocked to see this. My mom collected the medicines and paid them extra and asked them to go home safe. 

I’m completely rethinking my principles and thought process at this point. Humanity exists. I have learnt the lesson of kindness.