SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Bogus Vehicle Scraping Policy
DATE: 2024-08-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1ezfdnp/bogus_vehicle_scraping_policy/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am having a scrap vehicle experience, and sharing that 

It is useless to discuss here about policy/court judgement because individuals are binding to obey those but its implementation is bad indeed.

I was having a motorcycle very well preserved &amp; maintained whose pollution level is still lesser than BS6 standards. I usually maintain it like a baby(All papers updated). 

The scrapper (Nirvana Scrappers ) has taken full advantage of the court ruling &amp; with bribing MCD persons, they started catching vehicles from road (particularly from North East Delhi) and even recruit pvt agents on commission basis for this work.

You may ask, why they are doing so ?

I roughly evaluated my motorcycle once with local dealer, he told me that he can easily give around 7000 , if vehicle get scrapped by him for poorest/Junk condition &amp; even give upto12000(for a preserved vehicle) , if vehicle smuggled to other states &amp; being utilized there but in that case, I shall get only money &amp; receipt of vehicle 
on plain paper because vehicle will not reregister anywhere.

Here scam started, the authorized scrapper has given me only Rs 1932 as scrap value, even its one tyre is now costing much more than the given value, they too disassemble the vehicle &amp; sold to spare dealers on a much higher cost, they offer minimal amount to owner, give commission to pvt. agents to grab the vehicles &amp; paid MCD too to use their authenticity to grab the vehicles and again after doing all the things they still earning a handsome amount.

See, the facts are only some few owners those have fought hard, having all the documents &amp; desire to be reasonable, can get this meagre amount, it is too after depositing all documents ( which is very difficult to be on perfect side of a 15 years old vehicle case) otherwise nothing has to be paid by the scrapper.

Scrapper lift or snatch the vehicle &amp; give only a hand-written vehicle receipt without giving any money at site.

IMO only 15-20 % persons were able to get even this meagre amount. Then after a month of following religiously, owner get certificate of deposit &amp; after another 15 days he get vehicle scrap certificate.

Mind it still customer get only photographs of chassis &amp; engine no. printed on certificate but not any physical (i.e cut of chassis no. as promised) evidence that vehicle scrapped.

Till date certificate is having of no use as in realty the very small benefit (of some rebate in new vehicle registration or in road tax) often will get rejected by local transport department by saying they have not receive any such written order.

So in this play , only customer is defeated and other all involved parties enjoying the benefit.

I urge to departments involved to please implement the law as per its intentions not for only beneficiating from it:

Procedure Underneath

Your vehicle grabbed/Lifted

Get only hand-written receipt (No any value )

Your case is dismissed here , if you are not able to submit other documents &amp; cant prove your ownership, then forget about it here)

Now you must go to scrapper office with request &amp; your other papers.

Scrapper acknowledge and check the papers once; your amount will come after getting your case registered at Vahan Portal by yourself.

After a month of follow-up, you get only soft PDF certificate of depositing &amp; scrapping. Which further have no use or again up your sleeves to get a meagre benefit from Govt Authorities by yourself.

# I am writing it here to spread the knowledge &amp; share my experience &amp; please forgive for any grammatical mistake.