SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: Update : Mahavitran Scam 
DATE: 2025-01-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1hrvxju/update_mahavitran_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone! Thanks for all the suggestions on the previous post. Just to give you an update and few important things incase this happens with you. 

Next morning, 10AM I went to my nearest MSEB office because I wanted to avoid waiting and also to get the electricity back up asap. The moment I gave the bill to the assistant engineer, he told me that this is not his jurisdiction, go to the other office. 

After reaching the office, there was one women going full balistic on the lady who appeared to be senior level person but not the engineer. 
The issue was same, she apperantly was getting fake bills and was complaining via email/portal and they cut her electricity too. 

30 mins later, I went in to complaint and within 30 mins the meter was sent back and connection restored without any reconnection fees as it was their mistake. 

The main issue about the ₹14000 bill amount was still on done. They said that will happen at pulgate office so take the complaint form from here and go there. After getting the complaint form filled, they're like assistant manager's sign is required and he's out on field today. So we'll call you tomorrow. (They didn't, I had to go and pester them next day)

Next day after taking the signed paper to pulgate, there were already 4 people waiting for the same issue. Once the staff was done with their lunch ( from 1.30 till 3.15 ) the dude saw the complaint paper, wrote few things on the top, gave it to another and after 30 mins, they tired to gaslight me with the fake calculation saying we can reduce it to ₹2200 but you have to pay it and I explained them that they've been sending an average bill since 4 months and I've been paying for 50 units extra. After explaining it to him, he finally cleared all the bill and made it zero for this month. 

I thought it's all good now but two days later, I get the ticket closing message from the mseb saying that my bill is now ₹2200. Then I went to the office again to get it sorted. 

If this happens to you, remember few things, 
1. Check your bill ( if you pay via gpay/upi without seeing the bill) - if they don't get meter reading or there's a fault in meter, they don't inform you, they just send random avg bill. 
2. If your bill is incorrect, go to your mseb office and get the complaint form. If you go to pul gate mseb without it, they won't even touch it. 
3. Ask them for exact calculation explanation. They'll act like you're taking too much of their time or they have more things to do but don't let them go. Keep digging and get it right because they will try to scam you again. 

Tldr : Went to the two offices to get the bill corrected. There are 5-10 people waiting with the same issue so I think it's happening a lot. 
Check your bill people! If you've been billed incorrectly even months ago, you can get it cleared. Submit your own reading.