SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: How to reject fake notes?
DATE: 2015-06-25
SCORE: 43
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/3b3949/how_to_reject_fake_notes/

--- POST TEXT ---

The next time someone gives you fake notes better not reject it as it may land you in police custody.

This happened to me on 23rd of June while I was travelling in a BMTC bus. I didn't had change hence gave the conductor a 100 Rupee note and he was supposed to return a change of 80 Rupees (20 Rupees ticket).

He gave me a fake 50 rupee note and three fake 10 rupee notes. When I protested he did exchange the fake 50 rupee note but not the three 10 rupee notes. When I asked him to change the other fake notes he started to abuse me.

I politely reminded him that the notes were fake. He dared me to call the police instead which I did. While I was talking to the police on the phone he brought cops from one of the police stations which fell on the way. I told the cops the whole incident but they slapped me instead and said that the conductor has filed a pity case on me. 

They said a conductor being a government employee can file a pity case on me. 

I believe that to be a lie but I didn’t knew the right way to oppose them taking a firmer stand might had landed me in even a bigger trouble.

The cops took me to the police station where I was there for more than 1 hour. He finally took a 300 Rupee bribe from me and let me go. I shall remind you the bribe was for nothing as I had done nothing wrong.

When I returned home and showed my brother the fake notes, we found them to have been replaced with genuine ones. This was done when few of the passengers asked me to show those fake notes.

However I am convinced that the notes were fake initially and few of the passengers also agreed with me about the same. This means that there were more people involved than just the conductor.

Hence in this case I was lucky that I didn't take the case forward while I was in the police station. However the police never even asked me to show the fake notes after I told them the full incident
Now let me finally conclude with the real problem because of which I am forced to type this message today. The problem is that someone might give you fake currency and if you protest then you might get arrested instead.

And I doubt that it will be the isolated incident. In fact such incidents might increase if people like us don't do anything. However one should know how to approach the problem correctly otherwise you might get into a bigger trouble for protesting for the right cause.

Hence I would like your suggestion on how to counter such problems in the right way. If someone else has faced similar problems then he too can post them here and we can together discuss on our best course of action.