SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Foreign NRI question for long term investing in India (e.g. for retirement)
DATE: 2024-11-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1gu1b4d/foreign_nri_question_for_long_term_investing_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I'm an OCI card holder which I got trough marriage. I'm a German citizen, my partner is an actual person of Indian origin but also acquired German citizenship.

We are interested to save / invest some part of our savings in India because we are planning to move to India for retirement (in ca 30 years). Now especially for me the indian banking system is quite confusing because it's so different from the German one. I already got a PAN card and we got a NRE account and also some FDs in ICICI bank which yield around 7% p/a but I doubt that FDs are the best way to invest, at least in Germany they never beat inflation.

There I'm a fierce lurker of r/finance and in Germany the recommended way to invest long term is to have a demat account and buy an all world index ETF like MSCI all world or FTSE all world and not over complicate it from there.

I would prefer to just do the same here. I like index ETFs because they are cheap and they are supposed to just follow the index which they are representing. It's allready a running gag that all bank "consultants" in Germany are trying to scam you, I doubt that it is much better in India ;) - That's why I like to stay away from "managed" mutual funds and just exclude the human factor as much as possible.

Am I totally misguided because that's just all I know? What would you suggest? Any ETF suggestions, I doubt that I can buy the exact same ETFs here. There are so much more details like in which currency they are managed and the location (because of taxation) which we have to take into account in Germany, so assume I know nothing, which is actually the case anyway, but I don't know where to start.

These days we are staying in India and trying to open a demat account. With ICICI bank it failed so far because they would not accept our OCI card or german national ID as address proof and insisted on an electricity bill which is not an official document but just a bill from some private company in Germany. HDFC told us they can do it so we opened another NRE account with them and hope they can get the demat account too. Somehow we also need a PIS account with RBI, is that compulsory or could we just have a normal demat account? this topic is confusing the hell out of me.

Sorry for the wall of text.