SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: False POCSO Case by Mama's Daughter
DATE: 2024-12-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1h9hawy/false_pocso_case_by_mamas_daughter/

--- POST TEXT ---

Delhi

So I was Falsely accused of False Pocso case by my mama's daughter (Sage Mama) and now got bail after 2.5 Days in Tihar.

So i dont want to go deep in relations but only understand that my mami and mom have a toxic relationship only from mami side. She wants my mama to cut out relations with my mom no rakhi etc

my mama was my mamis tutor they both have a age gap of 10 years and intercaste (mami was sikh mama is pandit) one day my mama got my mom signed on my mamis property by telling her its for loan and snatched the property rights but we didnt reacted to any of that(our nani and nana are deceased when my mom was in 12th and mama was nearly 20). We let go we only want a good relation my mom wanted my mamas to maintian relation. My mami used to taunt my mom when she goes to mama house. So we left going there and mama alone come home once a year to tie rakhi and thats sit.

this year my mom opened a cosmetic and housing essential shop on rent near my mami's father(had only daughter and deceased) shop and my father shop is on same line of gali. so my mama runs the shop and one day my mami started taunting in front of my mom saying kallo,body shaming etc and pass thorugh and this continued for 1 week , then my mami messaged from mamas phone on whatsapp all abuse and all this continued for 2 months but now on dusherra my sister(13) was in the shop and my mami passed by and said kallo to my sister then my mom confronted my mami and said stop doing all of this drama and her daughter said chorni to my mom then my mom slapped her and told her not to interfere bw adults. They both hitting my mother and then my sister came and beat her. i and papa were at home and then we called police and the fight stopped. then in police station they had us MLC and then next day they called us and in police station she hit my mom in front of police and police arrested my father and mama to make our moms feel guilty about this and then after 3 hours my mami called her BF dalal(my mami is into clubbing,drinking) my mama knows all of it. Its just that my mami is rich and my mama is a servent to her. so the dalal bribed the ASI and both released by him with a compromise letter. After 2 days , we got police got into our home for false pocso case her BF bribed the police officer to file a fake fir and arrested us before fir taken place so that i cant apply for anitcipatory bail. So they arrested me and we hired the lawyer and got bail after 2.5 days . FIR story was 8 months ago ive gone to meet my sister (mama daughter), at a coffe shop and after that oyo and i fingered her. all things never got taken place, last time i met her was 10 years ago at mama's home for rakhi and after that i nver met her no phone number no contacts nothing. we have the cctv of fight , all chats of her. CDR is also blank as there is nothing taken place. 

now i am on bail and now my chargesheet is gone for scrutiny.

now after 1 month we got a call from a police officer saying ive am stalking my mama's beti and truly ive not got out of my house till now , only for college BBA . ive put on a camera on me since the call so that further false allegations can be doged

now ive want to know what could happen in this case, what can i do now, and we have doubt about my mama beti age that she is 18 but pretending to be 17. and am 19 now on 3 dec we want her to be in jail as she done very wrong to our family and me i cry seeing my mom's cctv footage, how much time could it take to get the chargesheet in our hand. is there need to worry?