SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: The best way to find a house is still paying up to an agent
DATE: 2016-05-17
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/4jpegu/the_best_way_to_find_a_house_is_still_paying_up/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR wanted to share my experience but it ended up as a big rant on rental Advt startups.

After housing, commonfloor, nobroker and all kinds of circus, the best way you can find a house today is still going for a local broker. That may involve your broker cheating you. #truestory

After all this circus you'd think that it might be very easy looking for a house, I did too, being a software developer in a start up. Housing recently removed rentals from their website, listings in common floor would often have incorrect data and/or incorrect location and/or outdated advt. No broker which looks like a better option is no different and after 9 contacts in no broker you have to pay money to see more(what? why? I mean, 9? out of the 9 only 2 were accurate) Anyway after trying all these options, desperately I went to a local agent for timely result. Which was a better but not so much.

Local brokers still have lot of listings which you WILL not find online, either because the broker hasn't posted it intentionally or the owners didn't know how to or both. I found a nice house, agent looked like a good guy, gave him token money, ten days later when u was supposed to get keys, broker said house owner was asking extra money, but he said there's a better house and showed me one and it is a better house, so, though I was still bit doubtful went ahead.

Everything was fine, except the money broker took from me, he was supposed to give it to the owner, it's two months and he still didn't give the money to owner. Just like me owners trusted the broker but for different reasons, they said they did try to put the Advt online but they couldn't, it's important to note that owner felt it was easier to put the house online earlier. I'm not sure if there are fee involved in putting Advt online in these websites, I remember sulekha.com was fairly easy to use.

So basically all the funding, all the hype, all these apps etc, today, the problem still exists and they only made the problem worse.