SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Some guy asking for money to build "resort villa" in Mathuranthagam.
DATE: 2022-12-15
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/zmd4d2/some_guy_asking_for_money_to_build_resort_villa/

--- POST TEXT ---

There's some guy called ATOMS Group Country Club ([https://atomstechresources.com/atoms-country-club](https://atomstechresources.com/atoms-country-club)), who sent this bizarrely written PDF (https://file.io/vUzifimGzuSu) to a bunch of old people. They are asking people who own a little land to contribute money (Rs 2. Lakhs/plot), then said that the ATOMS group will contribute Rs. 8 Lakhs and build villas, and then if there's profit, they'll share it 50:50 with the land owners who will remain owners of the land permanently. 

Here's the document they've been sharing with everyone. Is this some brazen scam or what? They are calling it "Franchise Owned Company Outlet", when Google says FOCO stands for "Franchise Owned Company Operated". 

Here's the PDF text they sent;

 
"

ATOMS GROUPS PROJECT PROPOSAL

&amp;#x200B;

PROJECT COUNTRY CLUB CHAIN RESORTS – MATHURANTHAGAM

&amp;#x200B;

Dear Sir/Madam,

&amp;#x200B;

We would like to introduce ourselves as pioneer organization in IT and service industry, our journey started in way 2014 with US IT Recruitments serving lots of big guns in US and international markets and corporate trainings for lots of companies in INDIA.

&amp;#x200B;

After all these years of service in IT industry having huge client base in India and abroad, we have trained software engineers 230 numbers working across India.

&amp;#x200B;

We have 20 plus years of marketing experience in different fields including IT sector for last 8 years. With our experience gained we have got lots of investors who are ready to invest in our projects on long term basis. By this we have planned to launch chain of resorts throughout India with investment pipeline 100cr for initial startups which will be increased further upon requirements.

&amp;#x200B;

We have well expertise team force that have years of experience in resort chain industry who are ready to take up the project next level.

More than that we have associate relationship with 500 plus IT companies in Bangalore and across India who send their staff regularly to some resorts every year for refreshment trainings. Once our launch is done we have above team who will send their staffs to our resorts for different style of experience.

&amp;#x200B;

This concept is called FOCO model which is term used in retail market chains and some of hospitality industries which represents “FRANCHISEE OWNED COMPANY OUTLET” Here the villa and land area will be owned by owners of land and will be maintained and handled by company as its resort properties.

&amp;#x200B;

This model is most successful because of ownership which remains in the hands of owners only and its operated by company. Same model is proposed for M/S Green Rich Village plot owners under following terms and conditions.

&amp;#x200B;

Terms and Conditions

1. Term Owners here refers to Franchisee and company refers to ATOMS

2. Atoms will sign the FOCO lease agreement with owners of each plot to do constructions of Its Pattern of Village Style Villas in his/her areas.

3. For entering this FOCO Contract Owners have to pay upfront of 20% in advance via DD favoring the concern on total construction and operational value 10lakhs for each villa model constructed by company.

4. On completion of the payment the company will invest 8lakhs on each and every plots in additions to payment given by the owners for its models of village style villa house and its interiors and exteriors.

5. Since its investing huge amount for this project company will take 50% share on net profit till 10years balance 50%will be divided between the owners.

6. By Entering this agreement company will invest and construct the resort villas on behalf of owners.

7. With this FOCO model company aims and will get back its invested money within next10years with 50:50 profit sharing ratio and will not collect emi or interest from any plot owners.

8. Owners will have right to get profits obtained from all business done on 50:50 Sharing basis for 10 years and after which it will be of70:30 Basis

9. After 10 years The profit will be shared 70:30 basis (70% to owners and 30% to company) for next 30years and will be continued till if contract cancelled from both the ends.

10. Though the profit share is increased after 10years the ownership of project and name of project, its model, its administration, its staff, its promotions, its offers and anything related to hospitality industries of this proposed project will remain as sole property of Atoms tech resources and management solutions only.

11. For next 10years owners of each plots are not allowed to sell or rent his/her property.

12. Profits will be calculated on Net Profit obtained every year from this project area.

13. Project profit timeline starts from JULY 14th which is the fixed date of inauguration of project after completion of construction of all 100 villas and exteriors.

14. In addition owners will be given Time share VIP Pass to stay in all our upcoming Resorts throughout exotic locations in India for 2nights and 2days for FREE with family of 2 adults and 2childrens bellow 14years for 15years.

15. Owners on VIP pass can stay in his own resorts for 2nights and 2days with same conditions for lifetime with prior bookings.

16. The above pass is valid only during off seasons only.

17. After 10 years from 11th year owners are allowed to send his/her own customers and can get individual Rent Income by paying 30% to company with hospitality terms apply on that date.

18. Atoms will operate this area in name of "Atoms Country Club Resorts" which is sole property of ATOMS TECH RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS ONLY.

19. Atoms has right to carry any constructions, alterations during any time till its takes care of the management.

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

KEY BENEFITS FOR ENTERING INTO OUR FOCO MODEL

1. Become owner of resort villa and enjoy the benefits up to life time with very low investment of 2lakhs

2. Pay zero interest and zero EMI for balance amount invested by the company for construction resort villas and its interiors

3. Enjoy resort stay in your own resort for free for lifetime

4. Get VIP pass and enjoy free resort stay in all our upcoming projects for next 15 years with common terms applied

5. Enjoy profit share for lift time year on year

6. Enjoy all amenities from resorts at 10% offer rates all time when you check in at all our resorts

7. Enjoy premium ownership profits of your plots rental from 11th year onwards by sending your own clients

8. Become ATOMS PREMIUM MEMBER And get VIP treatments from all other projects of ATOMS

9. Do hassle free business by giving all your worries of administration, marketing, catering, hospitality, promotions and developments to Atoms and just enjoy profits every year

10. Get family get-together parties at star hotels every year as ATOMS PRESTIGIOUS PARTNERS.

&amp;#x200B;

PROJECT COUNTRY CLUB

Introduction:

Country club resorts India’s first and only stays with traditional and modern blended stay with Mother Nature. A complete resort wherein one can experience our country side culture, foods and refreshments.

Its most innovative concept of blending ones needs completely at one place and get himself or herself completely rejunuvated.

Facilities in country club resorts:

1. Traditional village style villa huts - with modern amenities

2. Complete country side ambiance

3. A festival welcome to all guests with refreshments drinks

4. Traditional rich veg and nonveg virunthu – kidavirunthu

5. Briyani virunthu (chicken /mutton/ fish)

6. Modern BBQs – (nattukozzi, kadai and broiler kozzi treats)

7. Fishing (catch your fish and have mouthwatering meenvirunthu)

8. Camp fire

9. Country style games for fun

10. Adventure games

11. Kalaivandi ride

12. Hot air balloon ride

13. Auyverdic Traditional Massage

14. Steam bath

15. Jacuzzi bath

16. Pump set bath – traditional style

17. Swimming pool

18. Dance dj every night

&amp;#x200B;

ITS GONNA BE COMPLETELY NEW EXPERIENCE FOR OUR CLIENTS AND OUR SITE GOING TO BE ICONIC LAND MARK IN NEAR FUTURE – JOIN US AND GROW WITH US

"