SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: 7 month nightmare eBay experience solved, closed Ebay seller account.
DATE: 2024-06-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1da093d/7_month_nightmare_ebay_experience_solved_closed/

--- POST TEXT ---

7 month nightmare eBay experience solved, closed Ebay seller account.

I had a issue with eBay and scammer all the way back in December. SoFi credited me back the difference within a day after I was fighting with eBay for 2 months for my refund. I have had great customer experience with SoFi regarding charge disputes and fraud.

Long story short, last year I sold a phone, a google pixel 8 on eBay for around $500. After I sold the phone, the buyer wanted to do a return, the buyer was very unresponsive and forced the return, ignoring my request for help and eBay took the money from my account. When the time came for the package to be delivered, I never received a package. I checked every house on my block and cameras showed nothing. It turns out that the buyer put an address that was very close to my house on the shipping label of the package, so when the USPS worker scan the package it shows like it was delivered but it was never delivered to my home. A very elaborate scam, that gets people because eBay only cares if the tracking shows that it is delivered. I ended up going to the post office and a worker took a picture of that very package with the same tracking number provided by the buyer and I can see that the address is not even my house.

I present this physical evidence fraud to eBay, which I thought would be a slam dunk to get my refund, but boy was I wrong. As I already tried to dispute the case before without evidence, talking to eBay ultimately got nowhere, just being ignored and broken promises or updates by eBay support. After about 2 months I got fed up and tried to do a chargeback would SoFi. SoFi was able to credit my credit card back, but a few weeks later eBay would just charge me the same amount again to my credit card. After that, I talked to eBay again complaining about closing my account, then after that eBay did a manual credit to my account in February. I thought the issue was over, but 2 months later eBay would charge me the same amount again to my Sofi checking account since it was linked to my eBay. So since April I've been trying to contact eBay, talking to different customer support to get my case passed on to the manual corrections department, but each time I would never get an update and it was very frustrating to explain the same situation over and over again to indian customer support. I still don't want to give up, then just decided just to close my eBay account and ended all my active listing. I spoke to SoFi support right after I close my eBay account. And the day after SoFi just credit me back the amount and fixed everything. I'm super glad now everything worked out for me. Screw eBay for siding with scammer buyers.

Moral of the story, if you try to dispute case, you better have physical evidence the first time or else if the case is closed, it's very hard to get anyone to look at the case again. If that was the case, not all hope is lost. If the charge was done on a credit card or bank account, the credit card company will most likely take your side and might eat the cost to keep you happy. F ebay, I'm selling my stuff on reddit now.