SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: A case of online fraud (job related) in Bangalore
DATE: 2021-08-22
SCORE: 136
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/p98f4i/a_case_of_online_fraud_job_related_in_bangalore/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello fellow bengalurians.. My first post on this sub! 

I keep seeing posts in this sub about people who have just finished their college/degree and are seeking jobs. 

(Post is about a incident of fraud that happened with someone I know) 

So, this incident happened with a friend of my sister who's a recent engineering passout and she was searching for small online jobs which could provide her a some side income until she can get a regular one. 

She found a data entry job online where they gave her some 1000 forms to fill online within 10 days. They even exchanged some shady agreement via email (more on it later) which said her work would go under strict quality checks and she'll be paid 18rs per form (whichever forms passed the 'strict' QC) 

She is from a less fortunate family with 3 other kids younger than her so I guess this fact made her jump right into lure of easy money, without talking to anyone about it, not even her parents. 

So she sat day and night, completed those forms and sent it to the company before the given deadline. To nobody's surprise, NONE of her forms passed the QC test at their end and now they began to mail her to fulfill the terms of the agreement. 

Below point was one of the main points of the agreement:

*Candidate agrees to pay back an amount of Rs.3400 to the company in case their work does not pass the quality control tests.*

Now, 3400 is not a big amount but it still is big for someone who's from a lower middle class. Despite being low on money, she still managed to send them the amount somehow. 

Within a few hours, she received a badly worded email from that company saying she has caused an immense loss to them and inconvenienced their clients. Hence, she must pay another 3400rs within 3hours and if not done, she will have a legal case filed against her and this can destroy all her credit history and ruin her future job prospects forever. 

You may not believe but the gullible fool paid them that amount, just due to fear of legal case😐

By this time I guess some sense began to creep into her brain and she pleaded with them (on phone) to let her go and provide a sort of NOC saying that she has paid the 'damages' in full and nothing is due from her, which they did (luckily) 

I went through their entire mail communication and realized that had she been paying little attention she could have easily called their bluff and stayed away from this 'job'. 

These were the tell-tale signs:

A) The entire agreement was typed with first letter of EACH word in capital case (A proof-reader's nightmare😫)

B) There were irrelevant points such as 'no employee would object to the employers communication with another employee of the company'.. What does it even mean😐

C) Most importantly, who in the world puts all the terms of the job offer in mail itself.. I understand if a agreement was sent for the employee to fill but here, they typed all details themselves and sent it to her for reference. 

D) Lastly, she was never asked to sign anything in real but sent a picture of her signature to them (not digital sign but signed on a paper and taken photo with camera) which they said is enough to drag her through a court case. 

We googled the name of the company afterwards and surprise, surprise no such company exists! 

After few minutes of search, we found some old entries online where other job seekers were similarly cheated by this company and even the person who contacted this girl was same! 

I just wanted to alert every potential job seeker here so that they stay careful and not fall prey to such schemes. (This entire incident happened over calls and emails and neither party saw each other or ever met.) These people may not get caught since the amount involved was less than 10k and usually we Indians don't want to get into police case for small inconveniences. 

The amount lost may not have been big, but for her it means a debt she will need to repay and that too when she's still unemployed. Her parents will go mad if they come to know. 

P.S: The company was named 'turnax' or 'trunax' (the mails contained both names)