I was searching job in LinkedIn. I saw a work from home opportunity. So I thought of applying for the job. I was contacted by a person called ansuya. She stated "Hello! I am a receptionist for an online shopping mall multinational company. Professionally help shopping malls improve their sales rankings, and use virtual shopping to improve dealers' sales rankings and product popularity. Let merchants get better ranking and popularity. Members can get a daily salary of[protected]Rs per day after helping merchants complete tasks. We are recruiting part-time jobs, you can easily earn commissions every day through your mobile phone or computer, are you interested in joining?" I said yes sure!!. Then she explained that "Your conditions match our job requirements. Let me briefly describe the nature of our work! It takes 3-5 minutes to complete an order, and there are a limited number of tasks per day. The purpose of our work is to help online stores increase sales, and our work is carried out in the form of tasks. You get paid for every task you complete. A task takes only a few minutes. This workflow is very simple, get the order - complete the order - wait for the merchant to return the principal and commission - withdraw cash to the bank card. Your daily job is to buy products that merchants post on our platform. After the purchase is successful, the merchant will virtually ship the goods. You will not receive the goods, and the merchant will settle the commission to your account after the task is completed.. I stated that if it can be done without my investment I will do. Dear, we do not charge you, you only need to become a member of the mall to join us to work and earn commission. She said "To give you a better idea of ​​the workflow, I'll first post a link to this job. You need to sign up for a work account. After registration, the agency will send you a bonus of Rs 68." Then she asked me choose a plan. I thought of choosing the least. So that I will safw I recharged in their portal through paytm for 200. Bought first product. After I bought the product the dashboard displayed some commission. Then she said" and assigned a tutor. For the next task. The conversation continued in telegram. I questioned the tutor about their identity and work process. This task has been requested for you. There are six orders for this task. You need to pay 1-3 items per order. Some items may exceed current prices. You only need to make up the difference to complete the order. After completing the task, you can withdraw money in 1-3 minutes. Once a task is started, it cannot be quit halfway. Each task order must be completed within 1 hour, otherwise the order will be automatically frozen by the system. Unrecoverable funds In the course of the task, you will occasionally get a higher price item, but the corresponding commission will be higher. You only need to make up the difference, and you can withdraw money within 1-3 minutes after you finish the task. You can rest assured that every order you pay is registered by real-name bank account in the mall, and our chat is recorded. If you still cannot withdraw money after completing the task, it is also suggested that you take legal means or call the police. Then I got trapped after buying the second product for 480 add on. Then the capital for erf product changed to 2800. Since I can't withdraw if I don't buy 6 products. After buying the sixth product. They made me to buy seven saying some lies about the process. She promised withdraw after completion. I had shortage of 30000 of which was later added in backend by the tutor itself by stating she is helping me to cover 17357 out of which 30k was added by them to the portal. After completing all the proces which was needed for withdrawal. At last moment they said 9:30 pm their mall is closed. Asked me to withdraw by next day that is today 03/06/2023. I took all transactions and websites screenshots. I have already added my bank account by giving correct credentials on 02/06/2023 around 9pm. Today morning to keep my money in their system they have changed acc number and claimed that I entered the wrong credentials. Then I sent the proof that I have bind the correct bank credentials. And they didn't accept. Now again asking me to pay around 58000 again to verify the bank account. Pls help me recover the money. I have invested all my savings. They have looted around 145000 Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (4)