SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: I got scammed of 1.4L by Rohit Sugatekar based in Mumbai, but he is from Hyderabad
DATE: 2025-04-11
SCORE: 105
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1jwmhxz/i_got_scammed_of_14l_by_rohit_sugatekar_based_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know I'm a fool, dumb and made the worst decision, but I've come to give some unsolicited advice. I am at such a low point in life and so vulnerable that I could not see red flags and just blindly trusted Rohit.

He asked for 4.5 Lakhs for a 45 day pooja. Claimed that someone has done nazar bandi on me which is not giving me the success. Kept asking me "do you trust me" "do you want to proceed". First he will make it seem like you I am in control of the choice, and that's where it went downhill.

It started with a 90k payment, then immediate guilt. Guilt turned to curiosity and I kept asking questions which were answered followed by a "why don't you trust me" message. I decided to let go of the 90k and blocked him. He then messaged me that "I am not doing right with aghori babas and that I will face sever repercussions". That threat led me to transfer another 50k.

Eventually, I got the courage and I flipped. Turned the tables. Filed a national cyber crime complaint with 50+ screenshots in a PDF and online Mumbai police complaint. He says he needs two days to give me my money back. Wants me to withdraw complaint so he can give 50k. I'm trying from all angles to get the police to take action tomorrow

Avoid:

1. Doubting your instinct
2. Doubting your belief that god's plan is not working out
3. Getting pressurized into paying money
4. Believing google reviews. Check the profiles of the people who gave reviews, you'll know it's fake.

Roast me, troll me - it's okay, but please also give me some positive vibes.

AskHyderabad: Does anybody remotely have an idea about this guy. I have this same post on Delhi, and Mumbai forums. Got his Sharda Uni info from a comment. 
Guys can you please look in your corporate phonebook if you see an employee named Rohit Sugatekar. he could be based out of Mumbai. I want to trace him to the company he works at and give that info to the cops. Thanks!