SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Alerting on a new scam in Bangalore
DATE: 2023-10-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/17dozst/alerting_on_a_new_scam_in_bangalore/

--- POST TEXT ---

This guy came suddenly to my door a couple of days ago and asked me "whose car is it?". Thoughtlessly I said "mine" followed by "yaake?". And then he says he going to wash my car once a week for 1k ₹ for 3 months and that he washes the cars of the people living down the street in the same way. I asked him why does he want to do this and he said he's a student and needs the money, and that his Mother works in the adjacent house. He said can you please pay me 1k right now, "I'll uphold your trust in me anna" in Kannada. I thought the price was a bit less, but may be he's a student, and not a professional, and will do a just decent job, so I took pity on him and said ok and gave him 1k. Immediately he says that he has to pay his college fees as well, and needs 3k ₹. I said dude I don't know who you are. He said please anna I will uphold your trust. So I said ok will pay you in adavance and then he hiked it to 4k ₹. I smelled a fish right there and wanted to not pay him but by that time he was almost begging. I took pity and tried to send it to his phone number (he had taken my phone number and name by then and given me a missed call), but he didn't have any gpay or phonepe. Instead he gave me a scanner code and I sent it to that, but the name he gave me didn't match the name on that account.

The next day, this f(cker calls me and says "there's no ration in the house anna please give me money or buy it yourself". F(cker knows that I have no time to do that or to check his antecedents. So I said "dude wtf you are now demanding money and I don't even know who you are". And he said the same dialogue "nimma nambike ulskondtheenanna". And then he sends me yet another number to send the money to, and guess what, he needs 2000 ₹ for rations, apparently there isn't a grain in his house.

And, the name on the account is Anvar. Yesterday it was some Naresh. Tomorrow it'd be some other ahole's.

I blasted him on the phone saying I trusted his situation and out of compassion gave him my hard earned money no questions asked and he CUT THE CALL!!!

I called him back and said "you cut my call?" and he coolly says "you weren't going to give me money right so I cut the call".

I realized then that he's a 1000% fraud and said to him to not come anywhere near my house again and not dare touch my car. He was supposed to clean it today morning, but he didn't. His aim was achieved.

What made me sad is that I've seen too many such frauds now and I have completely lost trust. These so called orphanages like Manukula seva trust, ketto, impactguru etc have defrauded me enough, yet, I fell for another one. There's no end to this shit.

So the thing is, this bewarsi will now go telling my neighbours on a different street that he washes my car and he will attempt to scam them too. And I don't know them well enough to warn them.

I've lost all faith in Indians. They're like this even in foreign countries. BTW I don't want any political angle to be brought in here. I'm putting out this scam so that no one else falls for such crap. Protect yourselves and your money. No one will help when we're in need. But they'll expect us to give them all our money when they need it. And if we don't, they'll call us all the bad names under the Sun. Enough.