SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I suspect this is a scam, but my parents refuse to believe me - Anyone here who works in TV/Film Productions to help me out? [ASK]
DATE: 2017-08-12
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6t84iv/i_suspect_this_is_a_scam_but_my_parents_refuse_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys, I hope this is the right place to post this? If not, please let me know where to go. Just to give you a little back story;

My parents have moved back to Mumbai last year leaving my sister and I living abroad. My wife and I moved away a few months ago to live in Europe now, so our family's spread out now. My sister has a 6 year old daughter who had visited India last month to spend the summer with them. 

While they were out at the shopping mall one day, they were approached by someone with a clipboard claiming to be from "ApurvaKriti Productions" saying that my niece was really cute and asked if they would like to sign her up for these auditions. My parents thought no harm of it, signed her up, and went on their way.

A few days later, they get a call saying that they think she's great, but they need a portfolio, and offered to provide that service. My parents borrowed money from their relatives, INR40,000 to be precise, and paid for this photoshoot for my niece. They were told to sit tight as the photos will be sent over to New York and they should hear back from them soon.

After all of this had already happened, my mother got in touch to tell me that this had happened. Right from the start, I saw huge red flags and asked if they had any contracts or agreements. My mum sent me links to their website and a Google Drive document that didn't work for me. I warned her that this might be a scam, and that they should start ignoring these people.

 A few days ago, my mother received a message that said: 

&gt;"Congratulations your kid is selected for a huge cartoon show shoot on this Sunday kindly call sir tomorrow ie Thursday between 2pm and 3pm. If not available kindly send a whatsapp msg as sir is not always available on phone. As soon as he is free he will revert back to you .Regards Apurvakriti productions team"

Obviously, they were ecstatic. I googled the company and found nothing of interest. I found a few articles about scams which sounded identical to what my parents had experienced and promptly sent that over. Surprisingly, my parents responded with a nonchalant "we'll see. We're just waiting for the photos. They said it would take a week, but it's now been 3 weeks.". As we went back and forth, the company had messaged him again urging them to respond, saying that my niece was the lead role. My father messaged them and asked if they could provide more information to which they responded:

&gt; Let's do it in Diwali

At this point, I'm pretty certain that this is a scam. My parents, unfortunately still don't believe it and are waiting to see the photos they paid for to see if they can trust these people. 

So here's basically where I need some help:

* Has anybody got any information on "Apurvakriti Productions"?
* Does anybody have any evidence that they are legitimate?
* If they are a scam (which I firmly believe they are), what course of action can be taken to ensure they do not scam anyone else?

I'm not really sure what the rules are like in India. I have never lived in India. I'm just hoping that I can help my parents see the light and make sure other people don't fall for this trap.

Thanks so much for the help!

TL;DR: Parents were approached by a company called "ApurvaKriti Productions" for auditions for my niece. Paid 40k to them for a portfolio. I am sure this is a scam. They don't believe me. View the bullet points