SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Urgent Advice Needed - Fell Victim to Fraudulent Call Impersonating Axis Bank Employee
DATE: 2023-04-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/12qkbvu/urgent_advice_needed_fell_victim_to_fraudulent/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello r/LegalAdviceIndia community

I, 23M, currently working remotely as a software engineer who is in desperate need of advice and assistance

Earlier today, I received a call from someone claiming to be an Axis Bank employee, who wanted to know the reason why I denied the delivery of a credit card to my address. Let me add to it, few days back I mistakenly applied to ACE credit card which I asked my branch employee to cancel the application.

Fast forward to today’s call, after I shared my reason for not accepting the card they said my request will be processed. They then offered me an increase in my credit limit on my existing credit card, which I naively agreed to.

The caller confirmed my personal details like my name, email, pan, and address. Just to mention I didn’t share any details, they already had it and they were just confirming it one by one, and then requested an OTP to initiate the credit limit increase procedure. Unfortunately, I shared the OTP with them, not realizing it was a scam.

As it turns out, the fraudster used the OTP to update their own email ID on my bank account, gaining unauthorized access to my account. They then applied for a personal loan of INR 14,00,000 through the axis bank online portal, which was instantly credited. I immediately reached out to the bank officials to freeze my account. Between this process, they made two transactions totaling INR 7,00,000 through the online PayU gateway, leaving me with a substantial financial loss.

I have been saving for the past two years and repaying this fraudulent loan will exhaust all my savings, and I feel devastated and foolish for falling victim to this scam. 

I am seeking advice from the Reddit community on what my next steps should be. What should I do to recover my funds, cancel the fraudulent loan, and secure my account?

Has anyone else experienced a similar situation, and if so, how did you resolve it? 

As of now I have frozen my bank accounts, reached out to my local branch manager and initiated a complaint. Subsequently, I also raised a request in the cyber cell and the local police station.

Any guidance or suggestions would be greatly appreciated.

Thank you in advance for your help.