SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Please help me. I don't understand what to do.
DATE: 2023-06-04
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/140ct33/please_help_me_i_dont_understand_what_to_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had taken loan from mpokket app. I was unable to make the payment for quite a while. And so my emi were getting bounced resulting in multiple calls a day asking for the payment. Finally I decided to settle the loan this month. So I sent an email to the mpokket support stating that I want a settlement option for the loan. On the same day I received a message on WhatsApp from a guy claiming to be mpokket support and asked me to pay the settlement amount. I told him that i can make a payment on the last day of the month since I get paid at that time. So he agreed and I contacted him on 31st May and we discussed about the settlement. I told him that i can pay 25000 and he agreed for that. I was feeling that this maybe a fraud so just to confirm I asked him about my loan details to which he answered correctly which convinced me that the person is genuine and he told me that after making the settlement I would get the NOC in few hours. But since then I havent heard anything from him. And till day I am still receiving emails from mpokket to make the payment. I sent them multiple emails stating that I have made the settlement and request them to close the account. However today I got a call from mpokket for the replacment and I explained them what happened. The support person asked me to send an email to the mpokket support. Now in the email that u received from them there was a whatsapp number. I contacted that person in WhatsApp and I told him what had happened. He confirmed that the payment that i have made to the UPI id doesn't belong to them. And he said that i may have been scammed. 

Now I don't understand what to do. As when i sent an email to the support for the first time requesting for settlement option I got a message on whatsapp few hours later from a person claiming to be an mpokket personnel and he had all my details about my loan and that i requested for a settlement. If I was scammed by a scammer how did the person knew that i sent an email for settlement option on that day. This is very suspicious. I don't know what to do. The support is now asking me to contact the police. But I don't know how and where should I start from. 

Any suggestions are most welcome. Please help.