SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: POLICE CASE might be involved in relationship. Im 21M and my girl is 20F (PLEASE HELP)
DATE: 2024-03-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1brdbmv/police_case_might_be_involved_in_relationship_im/

--- POST TEXT ---

I met her online 1 year 3 months ago. We both were in a LDR relationship. And trust me , there is no doubt we both love each other. She is fully devoted to me and cant see me with other man and vice versa. We wanted to work on ourselves ,together , and have a bright future for both of us and then get married. I went to meet her for the first time , i live 8 hrs by train away from her. Her family was there too , but they thought im just her frnd. We had an amazing day but the very next day , her elder sister caught us kissing. Her parents r strict. They threw me away out of her state where she lives cuz my parents begged for my safety on call with her parents. Else , they could even have sent me to the police (ITS INDIA , IT HAPPENS HERE). 
so now her phone has been taken , she is forced to make food for family , she isnt getting treated well and is being treated like shit.... 1 month goes away of us not talking and then i get her text on instagram. turns out she was texting me through her android TV with a remote🥹. she said she loves me and is ready to marry me and only me in the future. she used to give me updates everyday like this.... time went by and one day she got her phone... she texted me and we were video calling. I told her to be safe and then only text. "u can even text me once in a month just take ur care and work on urself , in not going anywhere" i said this... she said "yup im safe no worries"... and after the call cut , half an hour later , her sister calls me and turns out she caught her. She wasnt safe 🤦🏻‍♂️ 
now her sister and mom is threatening me that they will put a fake police case against me on sexual harassment or something.. its just a threat yet , they arents picking up calls.. its been 2 days since then. 
now , im scared ofc. any opinions on what should i do? im thinking of not contacting her rn , focus on my career and in future when everything will settle down she will text me (i wont text first) and then things will go with more safety... ill get a good job and then go to her parents and if they accept me well nd good , if they dont , well then ig i have to run away with her and marry in a court legally (secretly from parents)..im also scared they dont marry her with someone else while im trying for a job.... any opinons r appreciated! 
(IF i run away with her and do a court marriage , will her parents accept me THEN?)