SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Bizarre scammy Angi (Angie's List) encounter. Thoughts?
DATE: 2023-11-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/17yk0o1/bizarre_scammy_angi_angies_list_encounter_thoughts/

--- POST TEXT ---

This happened back in January but I still think of it periodically. Basically, I had a run-in with Angi (Angie's List) that involved "someone" trying to steal money from me, but I'm not 100% sure who. Seems outrageous a giant company would attempt this on a random person, but I also see little evidence that points to a third party. The story is as follows.....

Last winter I was doing some projects around the house, and realized I needed some repiping done: about 24' of copper pipe needed to be ripped out and replaced with new pipes, in a slightly different configuration. I decided to hop on Angi.

For the unacquainted, Angi (formerly Angie's List) is a website that a layperson like myself can use to find a contractor. Basically, you can describe a project you'd like done and contractors can approach you with a quote. I had had some luck in the past using the site, and it was easier to find someone via this method than "the old-fashioned way." Having been a previous user Angi had my information: name, address, and (most importantly) credit card info on file.

Anyway, I wrote up the project details as thoroughly as I could, included several photos of the area, and so forth. What followed was something I had never had happen before. A few hours after posting, instead of being contacted by a local contractor I was called by Angi themselves! They said they had a person they could send from "Angi Plumbing" that could arrive the very next day! When I inquired about what the hell "Angi Plumbing" was they explained that they have freelancers that take on Angi projects. Additionally, based on the information I provided they quoted an estimate at $650. I said yes.

Now, as many people have stated on this sub, a lot of these scams involve high pressure tactics over the phone that put one into a state of panic, or at least nervousness. As soon as I hung up I felt like I had effed up. It all sounded too good to be true. What plumber can show up the very next day barring an emergency call? I actually logged onto the Angi app to cancel but since the window was now &lt;24 hours I'd have to fork over $50. So I decided to hope for the best. The plumber, whose "real name" (??) was stated on the app was scheduled to arrive at 9 AM the next day.

The next day rolls around. At exactly 9 AM -- not 8:55 or 9:05 or anything else -- my phone lights up with a text: "I'm here." I *knew* in this moment that there wouldn't be anyone in my driveway. And there wasn't. What began was an utterly bizarre exchange of texts, lasting for around an hour. I texted back, calming stating that they in fact *not* here, and I once again stated my address, a description of the house, and directions from "the main road." The individual I was texting doubled down, stating that they were at my house and I was somehow mistaken! They were using weird and sneaky language ("I'm at the address you [provided])" and overall it sounded like Indian ESL speak. And yes, I did attempt to call the person via the phone number I was being texted from: I got a generic voicemail from an outfit called "Handy" I later learned was affiliated with Angi. After an hour this person (and I) "gave up" and moved on.

So I knew I had been scammed. But wasting my time is not a scam in and of itself. I figured I would be charged something, maybe the $50 cancellation fee. I logged onto my credit card account minutes after this flummoxing encounter to see that *I had already been charged the entire $650 estimate*. 

Furious, I called Angi. The person I spoke too refused to refund a cent, explaining that they had "GPS evidence" the contractor had reached my home and that I wasn't there or chose to not open the door. I inquired about the "Handy" voicemail bullshit and was told that they do that to "protect the privacy" of their affiliated contractors. After much arguing and a few curse words dropped on my end an Angi asshole stated that they "might be able to refund half." I told them I would be disputing the charges and contacting the BBB. I also requested they permanently delete my account as I would never utilize their services again. 

I called Visa immediately after and while I was on hold with them I was happy to see the entire $650 was sent back. I did end up reporting Angi to both the BBB and FTC. They did respond to my BBB complaint. It was yet another double down, with a twist: they claimed they actually did send a contractor; he simply must have ended up at a "nearby house" which is why the GPS pointed to mine. Lmao, insane! What sort of human would sit in the wrong driveway for an hour texting instead of simply moving down the road? They were full of shit. Oh, whoever wrote the response also got a tad snarky at the end, claiming that they'd "love to discuss the matter further" with me but *I* had requested they never contact me again. 

I suppose the story ends there. I did find a decent local plumber to do the job. Funny thing is, the Angi $650 estimate ended up pretty accurate; that's about what this guy charged. Anyway, on the topic of Angi, this is a company I would avoid at all costs. 

**tl;dr** tried to find a plumber through Angi's list. Received fake/scammy texts claiming one had arrived at my house when no one was there. Was charged the full amount for the project. Was only refunded money once I got aggressive, though they stuck to their bogus claims. Bad times!