SUBREDDIT: r/IndiaInvestments
TITLE: Making a case for India Post banking services
DATE: 2021-07-07
SCORE: 285
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/IndiaInvestments/comments/ofnuxx/making_a_case_for_india_post_banking_services/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had a savings account with ICICI bank, which I used for my online shopping, cash withdrawal and UPI payments.

One day I analyzed my passbook, and I realized that I was spending around 1000 Rs p.a. for a debit card I rarely used and was charged two times for not maintaining the MAB (was duped into opening an account with MAB of 25k to reach the sales target).

Other than that, several different charges were getting deducted, which I was unable to decipher by looking at my passbook statement.

Getting raged at how my hard earned money was being siphoned off, I decided to close that account and researched about getting a cheap yet effective savings account.

Now I use Post Office Savings Account (POSA) to store my liquid money and have integrated an India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) account with it to get almost all functions that my ICICI account had.

Actually, money in POSA is stored with National Savings Scheme account of GoI, therefore it is not integrated with other banks though NEFT/UPI/RTGS etc. That is why you need to have an IPPB account linked with it for seamless money transfer.

IPPB account act as an interface or "spending" account while POSA acts as a "storage" account, means you can load up your IPPB account from POSA and spend money, and also transfer back money to POSA.

Despite this two fold system, I have found it a better banking service for most people.

Following is a list of advantages - 

1. Interest rate of 4% p.a. in POSA compared to a measly 2.5% in banks.
2. Absolutely free RuPay debit card with POSA (no AMC or issuance charges).
3. MAB of Rs 500 in POSA and NIL in IPPB.
4. 100% sovereign guarantee of all money stored in POSA.
5. Separate accounts leads to lower spendings, as you can decide how much to load in IPPB and park away the rest in POSA.
6. Cash withdrawal/ deposit/ passbook update at any post office rather than specific bank branch. 
7. Protection from online fraud due to separation of storage and spending accounts.
8. Most importantly, no pesky hidden charges.

Some disadvantages -

1. Need to visit post office for POSA account opening and linking with IPPB.
2. Slow customer service at post offices.
3. Post offices are not air conditioned ?

Once you setup this system though, there is absolutely no reason to go to post office for anything.

I save around 14k-15k p.a. in form of interest and other charges by using this system.