SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Neomax Fraud 
DATE: 2024-09-18
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fjvn03/neomax_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Everybody - I would like to let you all redditors about how my family (Uncle, Sister, Aunt, Grandpa, grandma - heck every family member ) lost generational money on the NeoMax scam in Tamilnadu ! 

So, it all started in 2013, one of my distant relative pinged my Dad about an investment scheme where they promised him 18% return. My dad being naive, checked with my relatives and apparently most of them have invested small amount of money (say 5L) and they told him that they are getting returns on every the first week of every month. 

 My dad was convinced (because most of them had invested and getting the money ) he invested small sum of money ! Apparently he got some returns and he pinged me for investing in this one of lifetime investment! 

I am a regulatory consultant with a global bank and I undertake trainings every 6 months to identify fraud and swindlers in the market. I told my parents about the risk and I even identified this distant relative as a fraud ! It didn’t go well, my dad was little uncomfortable with me for sometime, but eventually patched up ! 

Fast forwards 5 years - in 2022 the company turned turtle ! All the board members were arrested and the scam was out in newspapers. I was checking with my parents about the invested money and I was shocked to see that my dad had invested closed to 50L ! Few of my family members had invested 1, 1.5C and more ! The consolation prize is that my dad didn’t invest in tune of Cores. 

Now the whole family is behind the guy who canvased in investing in this Ponzi Scheme. He being a smart man, told the whole band that “Business loss - can’t do much, please file a police complaint“ 

All the family is now running pillar to post to get the police complaint done. Sadly, I don’t think the police can do much. I think the whole money from my family and immediate family is lost in this scam. 

So please people - if you get a cold call from a distant or immediate relative talking about an investment opportunity that promises anything over bank return - please say sorry and move on. 

TLDR - Family member introduced my family to a Ponzi scheme and almost all my relatives invested in it and lost the money.