SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Business fooling Indian people
DATE: 2024-08-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1eofess/business_fooling_indian_people/

--- POST TEXT ---

Swiggy/ Zomato
First in order to acquire customers they did rampant spending. Bought Uber eat which in its own way was burning cash by giving biryani burgers etc for 1 rs delivery. IPO launch with astronomically high pe ration. They started removing features and reintroducing them as paid option zomato used to refund no question asked now both platform refuse refunds. Started membership but now limit it to distance. Late deliveries. We will assign the delivery when the order is just about ready and then no delivery partner assigned. Lately the delays have been awful. Rain surcharge, tax on delivery packing charges. Chatbot blocking you to contact customer care and other shady methods to dodge issue.

Earlier it was like why will I order online when I get to go to restaurant enjoy ambience have family time get warm food. So they used to give discount to customer now the reason remains none.

Amazon Flipkart Myntra 
These platforms same story. On time delivery, returns no question asked, replacement through them, direct customer support. Now - service center replacement. Endless waiting on line to connect to customer care. Fake call transfers to manager no impact of escalations. Can’t even connect customer care easily need to go through wrong choice selection correct leads to faq or automated voice call and disconnect.

These business have destroyed local businesses as well. Visit Croma or reliance digital ask them what if delivered item is wrong they will say you will have to contact company. Reliance digital even worse they have their own untrained agents who do mediocre installation of appliances. Many business have shut down and now these platforms are monopolising.

I feel cheated every time I read there terms and conditions about anything even more when I try to contact them regarding their fault.

I stopped ordering food - healthy practise I eat home food more or prepare some. 

How is everyone dealing with these issues though like buying stuff - chargers, hard disk, clothes, shoes etc