SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Sharif briefs Saudi Arabia as Pak pushes to mediate US-Iran talks, continues diplomatic outreach
AUTHOR: Sajjad Hussain
DATE: 2026-03-25
URL: https://theprint.in/world/sharif-briefs-saudi-arabia-as-pak-pushes-to-mediate-us-iran-talks-continues-diplomatic-outreach/2888846/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Islamabad, Mar 25 (PTI) Pakistan Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Wednesday briefed Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman about Islamabad’s diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the West Asia conflict.
Also, continuing its diplomatic outreach, Pakistan held telephonic conversations or meetings with heads of the governments or leaders of Malaysia, Qatar, the UK, China and the European Union and pushed for Islamabad’s position of resolving the differences through dialogue and diplomacy.
Sharif’s call to the Saudi crown prince came a day after the Pakistan prime minister offered to host talks between the US and Iran for a comprehensive settlement of the ongoing conflict.
Show Full Article
Sharif, in a statement on X, reiterated Pakistan’s strong condemnation of the recent attacks on the Kingdom and reaffirmed Islamabad’s unwavering solidarity and unequivocal support for Saudi Arabia in these challenging times.
“I also briefed His Royal Highness on Pakistan’s diplomatic outreach efforts for regional peace and stability. We agreed to remain in close coordination,” he said.
Sharif said that during the call, he appreciated the Kingdom’s restraint and, “I stressed the urgent need for de-escalation,” and an end to hostilities.
The Saudi Press Agency reported that Sharif “reiterated Pakistan’s full support and commitment to standing firmly with the Kingdom against repeated Iranian attacks threatening its security and sovereignty.” The US-Israel have launched a joint attack on Iran since February 28 and the retaliation by the Islamic nation has extended the war to the entire Gulf region.
The US and Israel joint attack killed Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The joint strikes came after days of build-up, with Trump ramping up the pressure on Tehran to agree to a new deal on its nuclear programme.
The conflict has also taken a major toll on energy supply chains, especially across the Strait of Hormuz.
In a post on X on Tuesday, Sharif said that Islamabad was “ready and honoured” to facilitate “meaningful and conclusive talks” between the US and Iran to end the ongoing conflict.
Hours later, US President Donald Trump shared Sharif’s post on his Truth Social platform.
According to media reports, the US on Tuesday sent Iran a 15-point plan and ceasefire proposal to end the war in the Middle East.
The peace plan was shared with Iranian officials via Pakistan.
According to official sources, Pakistan is in contact with both the US and Iran, facilitating backdoor communication, including initial drafts of respective demands for creating peace in the region.
Pakistan maintains close ties with both Iran and the Trump administration.
Prime Minister Sharif also held a telephone conversation with the Amir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, and informed him about Pakistan’s diplomatic efforts to end the conflict in the West Asia region.
The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement on X that he appreciated Qatar’s “remarkable restraint in the wake of the ongoing hostilities.” It said that the Prime Minister “apprised His Highness the Amir of Pakistan’s diplomatic outreach and its peace efforts.” PM Sharif also emphasised that Pakistan had consistently called on all parties to de-escalate and resolve their differences through “dialogue and diplomacy.” The prime minister expressed his serious concern over the ongoing hostilities in the region and reiterated strong condemnation of the attacks against Qatar and other brotherly Gulf countries and conveyed deep condolences over the loss of precious lives in these attacks, while praying for the injured.
He assured the Amir of Pakistan’s full solidarity and support with the brotherly people of Qatar, especially at this challenging time.
The Amir appreciated Pakistan’s sincere diplomatic efforts for regional peace. Both leaders agreed to remain in close contact in the coming days, the PMO said.
In a related development, Pakistan continued its diplomatic outreach on Wednesday with Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar also holding a telephone conversation with Malaysian Foreign Minister Mohamad bin Haji Hasan.
The two leaders discussed recent regional and international developments of mutual interest, according to the Foreign Office.
“They emphasised the importance of de-escalation, dialogue, and diplomacy to address ongoing challenges,” it said.
Separately, Dar held a telephonic conversation with EU High Representative Kaja Kallas.
The FO said that during the conversation, both sides exchanged views on recent regional and international developments.
Dar emphasised the “importance of de-escalation, underscoring that dialogue and diplomacy remain essential for maintaining peace and stability.” They also agreed to remain in close contact on the evolving situation, the Foreign Office said.
Earlier on Tuesday, Dar spoke with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, exchanging views on the evolving regional situation, according to the Foreign Office.
“Dar underscored the importance of peace and stability, calling for immediate de-escalation and emphasising that dialogue and diplomacy remain the only viable path forward,” it said.
Separately, Dar received British High Commissioner Jane Marriott at the Foreign Office, and the two held discussions on the evolving regional situation.
Dar “underscored that diplomacy and dialogue remain the only viable path forward, emphasising the urgent need for early resolution of the conflict,” the FO said.
The deputy prime minister also met Chinese Ambassador Jiang Zaidong, who called on him, and their discussions focused on the unfolding regional and global developments.
Dar “underscored the urgent need to promote de-escalation in the Middle East and the wider region through dialogue and diplomacy.” Reiterating the All-Weather Strategic Cooperative Partnership, they agreed to maintain close cooperation on issues of mutual interest, according to the FO.
Prior to this, Sharif, on Monday, in a telephonic conversation with Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, had stressed the urgent need for collective efforts for de-escalation in West Asia. PTI SH GRS RD NPK NPK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.