SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need advice to break off with a obsessive girlfriend
DATE: 2023-04-13
SCORE: 86
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/12jvx43/need_advice_to_break_off_with_a_obsessive/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello,

So I met this girl on tinder about an year ago. She seemed pretty sweet and composed at that time. She had vision aligned with me for competitive exams. As time went by we got close. But soon after she started showing possessiveness and control over me. For example she once pretended to be take some pills and faked having reaction from the same. She would send me fake pictures of blood and ask me to come over and console her. Later when she accepted that it was all fake I tried to breakup with her. 

But a month later she again started sending me messages and 1 Rs on my bank account. I tried to stop her and she said she wants one final trip with her before ending things normally. Foolish me I agreed. After trip she went haywire and started giving me suicide threats to not leave her and what not. I tried to console her in best possible ways. I even had talk with her friends and parents. I told them everything including about her suicide threats and asked them I do not plan to marry her and never even proposed to marry her.

Her parents talked with her and she stayed normal for a week. She also told me her parents are looking for a groom for her. About 2 weeks later she again started giving me suicide threats. A week later she jumped off a building and got injured. Now she's in hospital and asking me to come meet her. I got a call from her mother and sister and they're asking me to console her. 

I am at my lowest right now and have not clue on what to do. I have few recordings and messages from her threating me for suicide. I want the best for her and me. As of now her parents seems to be understanding but what can be said about the future. I do not wish to initiate a legal action but want to know what my chances are of defending myself if she goes out of control again