DONT BUY ANY VIDEOCON PRODUCTS- THEY ARE SIMPLY CHEATERS I bought Videocon washing machine one and half years back from Jalandhar Videocon Dealer (Worstever decision I have taken). From the first month this is having so many problems but after so many follow ups they pass our time. The service was given by M/s Standard services(Mr. raj Kumar). We complain them that this machine is having basic problems but they said we can only service the M/c only. We got call from some other persons that in Videocon M/c, problems are common. Recently in the month of october the machine suddenly stop working. We register online complaint With ref to the complaint no.JAL[protected] & JAL[protected], their service Engg Mr. Gurminder Singh visited our place and taken Rs. 200(Service fee on his 1st Visit), Rs. 800 to change the gear box in his 2nd visit. We told on the very next day that we are having the same problem. After one week their Service Engg. Mr.Gurminder Singh visited our home and change the Belt and taken Rs. 250 again. Also he has not given any receiept for the same for any of the payments. Just after one week the machine faces the same problem and we again register the complaint JAL[protected].  After one day their service Engg Mr. Pawan visited and said their is a issue with Gear Box only no need to change the Belt.and he ask for Service charge again.  Today I have talk to Mr. Nitin(Service Head Jalandhar for this issue but he said you have to again pay for the parts. Mr. Nitin told that Gurminder is not our employee. Then who sent the service person in these visits in Videocon uniform. Now I really doubt that they all are involved and gives fake parts/service and take the money in their own pockets. I have talk to Customer care by phone and several mails but gives no solution. I have talk to customer care Head Mr. Ashish and Mr. Kishore regarding this issue in detail but he said that you have to talk to local CC to your own. Now I really frusterated about all the incidence. Finally I decided to go to the Consumer Complaint Forum. Pleass help me out what I can do now. My phone no. is [protected] and mail id is [protected]@gmail.com. i am having all the correspondence mails and phone call recordings.