SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Psychopathic abuse by upcoming Kannada film actor 
DATE: 2024-08-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1eopvrk/psychopathic_abuse_by_upcoming_kannada_film_actor/

--- POST TEXT ---

Trigger warning: Sexual, mental, emotional abuse by upcoming Kannada film actor and theatre artiste who is a psychopath (person with anti social personality disorder)

TLDR: Psychopathic abuse by upcoming Kannada actor leading to loss of career in victim making her fully bedridden. Actor lied about being desired by actresses. He's also a pathological liar (confirmed by several women) who is a danger to women. He was found on a dating app just months after admitting he's a psychopath. 

I'm a Bengaluru based disabled woman who was subjected to severe psychopathic abuse (sexual, mental and emotional abuse) by an upcoming actor from the Kannada filom industry. (He identified himself as a person diagnosed with psychopathy). I'm sharing my story as I want to protect other women from what happened to me. Pls don't ask me to name him - this actor has very powerful friends in the industry protecting him and I was bullied by them so that I don't expose him in order to save his career. Today, I have lost my career and am bedridden but this actor is getting famous. 

Pls note that this is a general awareness post and does not intend to defame the Kannada film industry. The psychiatric terms used have been used by a psychiatrist. I also met a lawyer who told me that obtaining sexual consent through deception, misrepresentation and fraud is a criminal offence under IPC 375. 

Here's how psychopathic predators lure women:

Love bombing: this actor would continuously lovebomb me and I would mistake it for affection or love. Pls be very wary of anyone who bombards you with 'love' affection compliments, flattery tells you how special you ar,, obsessed over you and how much you mean to them just within days or hours of meeting or talking to you. You're at the risk of getting addicted to your abuser. 

Triangulation: This Kannada actor lied about being desired by/having had relationships with actresses from Kannada film industry to make himself look desirable and trustworthy to me. After hearing these stories, I assumed he is a safe person because i knew all these women. 

He would talk about an actress desiring him and ask me if i was getting possesive and then he'd say - don't worry nothing is happening between us. only later did i realise this person was a fraud as he confessed to me after one year of gaslighting me that he LIED about an actress desiring him! He then claimed to have defamed her unconsciously! (Pls see if any of this even makes sense). 

Later, I also spoke to the other actresses and they completely denied desiring him/dating him, which means he used their names to manipulate me for consent. 

Cheating and pathological lying: Before taking my consent, he told me that he was away from other women for 5 months based on which I gave him my consent. After the relationship ended, he told me that he was Away from other women only for 2 months! When I questioned him about this, he gaslit me saying that I had misunderstood him and he convinced me that it was indeed 5 months. 8 months later, he twisted this entire story and told me again that he was away from other women only for 2 months! This made me realize that he is a pathological liar Who didn't remember his own lies. He had lied to me to obtain consent and cheated on me and endangered my physical health despite knowing i am already disabled. 

Also, In normal situations when someone is cheating they go out of their way to hide it. But this psychopath used to make it look like something was happening between him and another woman just to create confusion and insecurity in my mind. I later found out that this was a tactic used by psychopaths to create mental confusion in their victim. 

Gaslighting: is when the abuser says or does something and then denies doing or saying it to alter your memory of what happened. They rewrite history to make you doubt your own memory and convince you that your reality is wrong. This actor gaslighted me multiple times to obtain my consent for a relationship with him. Gaslighting for sexual consent is manipulation and qualifies as sexual coercion.

Mirroring:
Becoming who you want them to be by studying your weaknesses, likes and dislikes and mirroring your personality. If you are a woman in an abusive marriage then they will create a personality of being a supportive man and become exactly who you want them to be. If you are a person who likes well- read people then they will project a personality of intelligence and sophistication and being well read etc.

Devaluation: When i decided to end the relationship due to his lack of empathy, he devalued me by comparing me to other women. He told Me that he was never interested in me whereas with other women he has been actively interested and pursued them. His fragile ego made him compare me to other women when I said no to him and made me feel like I am not good enough. He would play sadistic mind games With Me to make me Feel Insecure and Get a high out of it. He would do this despite knowing that I had low self-esteem because of my disability. 

As if rapists and molesters weren't enough in this country, there's a new breed of predators - those what manipulate women into sex/physical intimacy and obtain their consent through deception, fraud and psychological and emotional manipulation. They treat women like trophies and conquests.
Sadly, these people are never exposed or recognised as predators and it's passed off as 'boys will be boys' 'oh but this keeps happening in the film industry'. Pls remember there's a massive difference between a jerk/asshole and an abuser. Abusers are calculative, cunning conmans who go out of their way to 'conquer' any woman they're attracted to. They will do anything and everything in their ability to get close to women and manipulate 
their psyche and this will be done so smoothly and charmingly the women don't even realise that she's being sexually manipulated. And ladies, pls remember, any guy who manipulates you to take your consent is a sexual predator. Do NOT give them the benefit of doubt. Stay safe. Stay alert. 

#timesup #metoo

How to spot such a psychopathic predator?

Superficial charm

Targets victim through love bombing 

Apears too nice and too sweet

Always seems nice and never gets angry

Extremely convicning with words

Wears a façade of sophistication and intelligence 

Portrays himself as well-read, mature ad knowleagble

History of sexual promiscuity

Known to have a thing for married women

History of numerous short term relaitonships/flings

No morals when it comes to cheating, indifidelity 

Appears confident and is narcisisistic

Pretends to respect consent and women

Plays innocent and tries to gain sympathy from women to lure them

Tells tall tales of being desried by numeorus good looking women

Chronic liar, watch out for inconsistencies in stories 

Ps: Pls refrain from victim blaming or slut shaming. And pls don't ask "why did u tolerate it". The abuse was subtle and hard to spot and I found out he's a fraud only after the relationship ended and i was dealing with sevee trauma. Also he kept gaslighting me and I was trauma bonded to him (like Stockholm syndrome).

Stay safe. Stay alert.