SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: We got scammed.
DATE: 2021-08-14
SCORE: 652
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/p478c5/we_got_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mother was talking with a close friend from UK. They were talking about something which happened yesterday, and around half an hour later the person said they need around 2 Lacs. 

I had just woken up and mom asked me if it is possible. 

I said sure. I read the message, it was a WhatsApp Chat. They sent the Bank details and stuff, so I decided to send it via IMPS. 

The transaction surprisingly got approved within seconds. And we sent a screenshot of success. The person said they will get back to us soon.

Minutes later, on our common groups, everyone started saying that account might be hacked. And the person posted on Facebook that her WhatsApp got hacked. We tried calling this account and they blocked us. 

We tried reaching ICICI Bank, and it took us around an hour to actually speak with someone due to the automated and "press this for that" nonsense. And finally the ICICI person said, "Sorry but we cannot help you. The best we can do is block your bank account and raise a dispute."

All of us are in a shock.

edit : 

* As some of you have asked why I trusted them immediately with this sum? Its because the person has a history and that is why we believed. 

* I have filed a complaint to ombudsman, icici, and I am trying Cybercrime portal but the website is a mess, cant enter Country Code or my State, if anyone knows how that can be fixed please let me know.

* the person who said I could've given them for college, can I offer you a McDonalds Borgor instead? Thats all I can afford right now

* I have put this on Twitter as well. Tagged Mumbai Police, Cybercrime, ICICI, and Axis Bank. I actually tried telling ICICI Bank minutes after this happened, but they delayed the reply and said "now nothing can be done". But hope for the best.

edit 2 :

I totally agree that it is my fault. Even if my mom or dad doesnt, I should have been a little responsible. I was working on a project since Mid July and finished it today, so I was a bit careless. It is largely my fault.

edit 3: I have the bank details of the scammer. I am trying to tweet it out to Axis Bank and ICICI Bank, including Nagaland Police and Mumbai Police. If anyone can help please interact with this tweet if you can ;-; https://twitter.com/epppyyy