SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: How do you cope with financial loss? 
DATE: 2024-07-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1dv0zgo/how_do_you_cope_with_financial_loss/

--- POST TEXT ---

For context- 26F, paid a foreign company for coaching for an exam in 2022, they had offices in India, but now operational only abroad. They have paid back a few thousands after a LOT OF hassle; numerous calls and messages and fake promises of paying back by the weekend; literally lost sleep and diagnosed with acute anxiety. Still, 1lakh is stuck with them. I make ~4LPA and have family responsibilities. 

Now, I know I can earn this money back, I have in fact earned it back in this 1.5 years, but the feeling of being cheated of my hard-earned money is not easy to digest. I have always been careful with my expenses as my father got laid off when I was 11 and there was no other bread winner. 1 lakh is a huge amount for me and It makes me feel GUILTY and stupid for trusting another person. 
I see people posting about their 1Cr+ corpus but it’s such a far off dream because I still have to study and work my ass off to get to even 20% of it (my company says I’m eligible for a raise only if i work for 14 months with them ). 

My seniors and friends have consoled me saying fraud happens to the best of us and is almost inevitable and it’s NOT my fault; however, the question of WHY it happened to me still persists; it’s not like I lost this money because of gambling or betting. All I wanted was to study and get a shot at a better career, so what did i do to deserve this? The thought makes me simply angry and wonder how unfair life is. I want to pursue it legally, however, I know how legal cases drag on forever here; plus the company being abroad-idk if our law will even hold them responsible. I was told I would be more emotionally and financially drained if I took the legal route. 

I know people online only talk about their achievements or goals, but today I want to ask- how do you cope with financial loss? How do you just let go?