SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Sharing a newer (?) scam I discovered yesterday - Google Biz hijacking
DATE: 2024-06-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1drdnde/sharing_a_newer_scam_i_discovered_yesterday/

--- POST TEXT ---

I might have missed the boat on this one, but I think it's worth mentioning.

Had a client contact me yesterday because someone had added a phone number to their Google Business listing. These folks don't know ANYTHING about computers or social media, which doesn't help.

Also: word of advice: if you own or work for a business and haven't done so already, take control of your Google Biz listing!

Anyway, this is a towing company. Apparently some third party company - looks to be based in India - added their own phone number to the Tow company's Biz listing. So the address is correct (I don't think they have a web site) but the phone number goes to this other company.

The problem is that people are calling to pay their towing bill and are giving credit card numbers to these scammers. Just for fun I tried calling the number on my cell yesterday. I did my confused old man voice I like to use with scammer calls. The conversation went like this:

"Towing service."

"Yes, what towing company is this?"

"We manage several towing companies."

"I want to make sure I'm calling the correct business."

"Which company are you trying to reach, sir?"

I made one up on the spot to see if he'd bite.

"I'm trying to reach Deernugget Township towing."

"Yes, this is Deernugget Township towing. How much is your bill?"

"It's Benchod dollars." \*click\*

 
So it seems no matter what company you say you're calling the guy on the phone will say they're them. That's an old scam, in itself. Like the guys who post help desk phone numbers online and no matter who you say you're calling - AOL, Microsoft, Norton, etc. - whoever answers the phone just lies to your face and says that's who he's with. 

Because Google are a bunch of bitches who don't want anyone contacting them, the best I could do was fill out a web form stating that a third party company had hijacked the contact info and wait three days. Now, anyone who doesn't have their head in their ass can look up the tow company's name elsewhere (BBB, Yelp, etc.) and see that the phone number is different than the Google Biz number. So hopefully they'll take action to help us fix this.

So, just a heads up. Be safe out there.