SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Wrongfully debarred from JEE Mains for 3 years under UFM – Urgent help needed (JEE Advanced on May 18)
DATE: 2025-04-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1k2qulb/wrongfully_debarred_from_jee_mains_for_3_years/

--- POST TEXT ---

My friend got his jee result today which is as follows. https://imgur.com/a/vNAaupA. Showing UFM in the place of his percentile and that he has been debarred for 2025-2026 and 2026-2027.

 
He got 98.9x percentile in session-1 attempt Jan 28 1st shift and was expecting 98.4 percentile(147 marks) in session-2 april 4th 1st shift. He always scored well in weekend exams and his teachers were expecting a good result too.He is a very hardworking student and always wrote his own answers. Even during online exams in lockdown, he didn't copy and wrote only what he knows. He is like the coaching institute topper who takes pride in his studies and always helped his fellow students.The guy beside him was the one who copied. 
 
The incident:

In session 2, the exam center in which he wrote was a huge hall and his computer was at the corner, with a cctv facing directly towards him. The guy beside him begged him to tell answers before the exam started itself but my friend didn't say anything. When the exam started, my friend was locked in started solving questions one by one and right when he touched his mouse to choose the answer, the guy peeked into his computer and chose the same option. My friend noticed this but didnt care cuz he was too focused on his exam. But once he got annoyed and verbally told him to stop doing that. But he didnt stop. He continued to copy. This continued until 2nd hour and then suddenly 3 people walked into the hall and it looked to my friend like one of them was on the phone with someone who was watching the cctvs and told him both of their computer numbers and that they were copying. My friend didnt say anything cuz he was too occupied with the exam(he continued to write his exam and stared at the guy who was on the phone a few times) and didn't wanna waste any time in defending himself in smtg in which he clearly wasnt in the wrong.The copying guy beside him was silent too. The phone guy told them to continue writing their exam and left for a while. Then he came back, took their names and left. This ordeal of the guy beside him choosing the same answer as him continued even after this,until the end of exam. My friend said the he(the guy who copied) didnt even put his pen on the paper during the entire 3hrs and atleast copied 25+ questions(my friend answered 45 questions).He didn't think much of this after the exam because he was damn sure he wasn't in the wrong. And today he woke up to this 
 
TLDR;My friend got 98.9x percentile in JEE Mains Session 1, expected \~147 marks in Session 2. He’s now wrongfully due to a nearby candidate copying from his screen during the April 4 exam. Despite not helping or cheating, both were flagged. Officials took their names mid-exam but gave no warning. He didn’t report it, thinking the CCTV would show the truth. 
 
The JEE adv exam is on may 18th and would like to get it solved as soon as possible. We’d be grateful for any tips, advice or contacts, or info about similar cases that could help us get through this. 
 
Our questions: 
1.What is the fastest legal remedy available so that he may be able to appear for JEE Advanced on May 18? 
2.Can we file a writ petition in High Court under violation of natural justice (no chance to be heard)? 
3. Is it possible to file an RTI request to: 
a)Obtain the CCTV footage from the exam hall? 
b)Get access to invigilator reports or internal communication regarding this incident? 
c)Identify or contact the student who was seated next to him (we only have the name)? 
4.Does NTA allow formal appeals or representations in UFM cases? 
5.Have there been similar precedents where High Courts overturned a wrongful debarment?