SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Scam Awareness! Cyber Crime approach!
DATE: 2024-11-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1gr4v15/scam_awareness_cyber_crime_approach/

--- POST TEXT ---

Disclaimer - This will be a long detailed post. I kindly request on not adding negative comments as I’m already done!

My Bro was unfortunately part of a crypto scam and he lost 9-10 L. This is a devastating thing as this amount is equivalent to his 3 years salary and he took so many personal loans to facilitate this money.

Scam details in detail
1. They make you do sone tasks and actually credit amount, they credited 1k first
2. Made him download a fake trading app (devnet.cc something not sure) and gave trade calls to make money
2. Made him send 5k and made him trade and actually deposited 7.5k to his bank as withdrawal 
3. My bro believed this is true as they had a group of 2k members and sent screenshots of everyone and the trade account is real they even sent agreement which is ofc fake that if they take any loss the company will bear it
4. Then they asked him to deposit more and more and each time his trading account got updated with more money but not able to withdraw 
5. For withdrawal they asked more money then only withdraw possible since my bro invested a lot he wants it all back so he kept doing this
6. When I got to know I made him stop IMMEDIATELY 

Next Actions

I know the money is gone and it was all about emotional toll and sleepless night. I contacted Bangalore batman - @stbrospeh sorry for wrong id many people know him here

He IMMEDIATELY told to file the complaint i did it from my end yesterday night and today morning i got a message that 1k has been put on hold, I uploaded all 30 transaction details. Oh yea they made him send to all various upi id,imps and all more than 30 accounts they all termed it as merchants.

Coming back, I saw this and againasked batman about it, then I directly called 1930 they were very very quick and they refilled everything as in my complaint for some reason only 1k was saved. That did again in 1hr they were on call only.
I got another message that 36k is on hold now.
I have no more hopes of recovery as they would have emptied all accounts.

Just so you know if you raise a complaint and the receiver has the same amount they freeze it.

I STRESS YOU anyone goes through anything like this DAIL 1930 works or not do it IMMEDIATELY as possible.

Cyber crime is LEGIT they will try, ofc I’ll update if anything more happens.

My bro has realised his mistake what’s done can’t change, We will get through this ultimately he’s my brother and I’ll not let him suffer this pain for a long time I’ll do what I can.

Thanks for your time, I really needed to let it out and ensure no one else gets into such traps.