SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Story similar to Atul Subash at my home. Please do give it a read. I request you guys.
DATE: 2025-02-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1igl7di/story_similar_to_atul_subash_at_my_home_please_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

As you guys would’ve heard about the Atul Subash case. I wanted to draw light upon the similar incident we as a family are facing on a regular basis at home from the past 15 years.
My uncle(mamu) brilliant guy did his Btech(IIT Kharagpur) MBA (Harvard). Was at once handling 33 countries at Yahoo back in 2008-09.
He married this girl in 2008. Girl was of Noida. Has 2 daughters with her. They after marriage were living in Bangalore.
The girl ran away from home took all the property papers. We came to know about the 2nd child later on. Wouldn’t let my mamu meet his children. He literally pleaded her in front of her family.
Filed a fake case against my family that they used to beat her and ask for money. Everything fake. Hacked into our income tax records to know our property. Demands 4Cr. My mamu left his job 8-9 years back. In his words he said ,’kya fayda iss paise ka’.
Nanaji and mamu used to go to noida from Chandigarh(out home city) for every single case hearing. The distance roughly is 300km one way. Mind that they did this for every hearing and most times when they arrived there the hearing was cancelled. 
The girl’s father is retired army officer. They judge ordered monthly maintainence charges although my mamu is jobless.
Both nana-nani suffered heart attacks and has to go bypass 2 times. Nani is diabetic too. They developed these as a result of increased stress.
Few days back the girl’s father gave bribes to delhi police and they came all the way to Chandigarh and arrested my nanu without any warrant. We told them that he was a heart patient and let him carry his medications and please cooperate but all in vain and was driven to delhi and locked up for the night. Call it harassment. We told the judge. Again all in vain.
The girl and her dad secretly paid out lawyer which we were too late to notice . They even bribed every judge that was on the case. All results in their favour. We are still fighting that case 15 years later.
Through my eyes you can see my family suffering every single day, the pain of my grandparents, the whole tension in the house, all the craze for the festivals is gone and everyone is just waiting for the day when it’ll be finally over. I just want my old family back where we celebrated festivals with fun, where i can wait for my mamu bringing gifts whenever he goes abroad for work, where we as a family go to drop him to delhi airport for his flight, where he is happily married, where my grandparents are finally living not just for the sake of it, where they don’t have to worry about the police coming again,where we live as a normal family which has done nothing wrong but just living how the circumstances prevail.
Thank you for listening everyone. Each and every part above written is true.

Update- Again an arrest warrant has been issued against my mamu for not paying monthly maintainence. Our latest lawyer is also compromised.
The girl has a well paying job at NIFT noida as a lecturer.
She is living with her jiju. We suspect there’s a relationship as her sister is dead.