SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Almost got scammed
DATE: 2023-07-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/14nszxp/almost_got_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey,

I commute between Rajiv Chowk and Dwarka sector quite frequently. Usually, while travelling l put my airpods on and don’t pay attention to anyone and anything happening around me. 

Just as normal, while i was minding my own business, a young man approached me to ask for some money today. I asked him how much, to which he answered 20 rs. I was confused what would he buy with such a meagre amount of money and hence questioned him about what would he do with this money. He replied that he’s short of some money to buy coupon for Janakpuri(he had bought coupon till subhash nagar only) and didn’t have a phone to inform any of his family member. 

I had read a few posts talking about similar scams(usually on the platform or outside the metro station but here it was inside the metro) before and was doubtful of this being some kinda fraud but because 20 rs isn’t a big amount, I just handed him a 20 rs note and continued with my work. 

After sometime, he started nagging me again. I frustratingly asked him “what now?”. He replied that if I could give him some more money for food and stuff(300-500). I obviously said no but he started insisting. I was still sure not to give him any money. Now, it was getting really irritating and told him clearly that I don’t have any paper money and all my money is in my online wallet. 

After this incident, he remained quiet for quite some time but oh boy he again started distributing me. This time with a new demand, to let him call. Again, I said no, for obvious reason. But this smartass didn’t stop there. He began asking me personal questions like where do I study, where do I live, what does my father do, etc. This was especially fishy tbh. Why would he want to know my personal details. I again made him clear that i won’t be revealing any information about me. Again, he kept silent for some time. I thought of getting off but as Subhash Nagar was just a couple of stations away, I thought of waiting for his destination. If he doesn’t get off, then he was clear lying and if does then “bala tali”. 

So, after all his strategies to fool me got exhausted, he switched his focus to the man sitting straight next to us. He changed his seat and tried to do the same things he tried on me. But, when he asked to let him call, the man allowed. Aaand someone picked phone within a second. Like it takes at least a few second to even know who’s calling and then picking up. Not here. As if someone was sitting over the side, waiting for this call. Even more surprising was how he talked to the person on the other side— no hi, no hello, no introduction, straight up told the person that he’ll reach Janakpuri in a few minutes and done. That’s it. I mean if you call someone from your family from someone else’s phone, you do tell them the reason/urgency for call from someone’s phone. But nope— we’ll start right with our location without any introduction, leaving the duty of identifying you to the receiver. 

Till then, I was just suspicious, but now with this call, I was sure this boy had plans to scam me.

Just about when Janakpuri was about to come, he got up and moved a few coaches ahead(I was sitting in the last coach). So, I can’t confirm if he got off in Janakpuri or not.

What do y’all think? Was he trying to really scam me or just a genuine guy who wanted help?