SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammed &amp; now getting death threats. How worried should I be? 
DATE: 2024-09-25
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1fongba/scammed_now_getting_death_threats_how_worried/

--- POST TEXT ---

I feel ridiculous for falling for this and generally consider myself an intelligent person, but whilst I’m trying to be rational - I do feel scared. I paid £180 for some medication from abroad (not illegal meds, just couldn’t get it on prescription here) and when it supposedly arrived in the UK, the “courier company” contacted me on WhatsApp saying I had to pay £200 for a customs charge. Needless to say I immediately realised I have been scammed - contacted the seller, got nowhere - so left a review on the page of the platform and said I was going to raise a claim with my card company etc (perfectly normal response, no?). This resulted in the seller threatening my life and saying he will hire someone to take out my whole family. The seller said he would refund me but attempted used my email address and insisted I send them the OTP to give them access to my account which of course I did not do. The person is not actually demanding more money. But is making threats to my life and my family presumably because I left a bad review and said I’d make a claim to my card company? The seller also posted screenshots of the house i used for the delivery address, which I woke up to this morning so had clearly been search on Google for the address and found pictures from Street View of the house. I do know the seller is abroad in India. The screenshot is only 1 of many threatening messages I have received. I have blocked them. 

Needless to say this has really shaken me up, and left me feeling anxious and scared but I can only assume he’s just trying to make me feel that way. I’m trying to be rational about it, but keep getting thoughts that maybe he is really going to send someone to my address (does that sound pathetic). I don’t know if to contact the police. Although I know there’s nothing they’ll do because technically nothing has happened. I have two children so I am pretty scared. Please tell me this is textbook scam behaviour; or whether I should indeed report it and going into hiding! Thanks