SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: AAP will form govt in Punjab in 2027 again; oppn has no issue: CM Mann
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-17
URL: https://theprint.in/india/aap-will-form-govt-in-punjab-in-2027-again-oppn-has-no-issue-cm-mann/2881821/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Dhuri (Punjab), Mar 17 (PTI) Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday said the Aam Aadmi Party will retain power in the state in 2027, asserting that fulfilling all promises within four years of his rule has left the opposition without any issue concerning people.
Mann said while the opposition remains busy fighting for power after having “looted” Punjab during their reigns, his government is committed to securing the rights of people.
He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the newly constructed Sub Divisional Hospital here.
Show Full Article
During his address, Mann said owing to several people-friendly decisions, AAP will again form the government in the state.
The assembly polls in Punjab are due early next year.
People are eagerly ready to constitute the AAP government again after the assembly polls in 2027, he said.
“After assuming charge in 2022 from the native village of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, our government took several people-friendly decisions. We have already fulfilled all our promises in four years and in the coming one year we will take the state to a new zenith,” he said.
Mann said his government has started a new tradition in politics by completing all promises in four years, whereas earlier governments were not able to do so in five years.
“From day one, our government is cleaning the mess made by the previous regimes and we are not hesitant to take bold decisions for the welfare of the common man,” he said.
Now again the Congress and Badals are seeking another chance to plunder the state whereas the state has already suffered a lot in their hands, he said.
The wise people of the state will never give them another chance and they will be sent to political oblivion after the polls, he claimed.
“Those leaders who patronized the drug trade were put behind bars. These leaders not only patronized drug trade across the state but even sold and supplied drugs in their official government vehicles. Previously no one had ever dared to arrest these affluent leaders, but our government has done so and now they are paying the price for their sins,” he said.
Slamming opposition leaders, Mann said Charanjit Singh Channi, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Amarinder Singh, Sukhbir Singh Badal and others have joined the chorus to target me.
“Earlier these leaders used to mock me by labelling me as an entertainer, but now they chant my name day and night out of fear,” said Mann.
Further targeting rival party leaders, the chief minister said the entire opposition never raised a single real issue concerning the people both inside and outside the state assembly.
This reflects that they are only concerned about their own positions as they are only interested in power, he said.
“Desperate to attain power, the Akali Dal is posting AI-generated videos about me on social media to mislead people. This shows that in dearth of any issue against me they are baffled and making futile attempts to attain power,” he said.
“These leaders are frustrated because we have exposed their ugly faces before the people and have become a threat to their power. They cannot digest that common people are now getting positions,” he said.
Taking a swipe at the Badals, Mann said, “They ruined businesses by luring people with false promises.” “Just as Mahatma Gandhi was called Bapu, Jawaharlal Nehru was called Chacha and Chaudhary Devi Lal was called Tau, I consider myself a son and brother of the people,” said Mann. PTI CHS KVK KVK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.