SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: US FTC inquiry targets OpenAI and Anthropic’s deals with Big Tech
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2024-01-26
URL: https://theprint.in/tech/us-ftc-inquiry-targets-openai-and-anthropics-deals-with-big-tech/1939924/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Jasper Ward and Krystal Hu
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said on Thursday it had ordered OpenAI, Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon and Anthropic to provide information on recent investments and partnerships involving generative AI companies and cloud service providers.
Generative AI, which uses data to create new content like ChatGPT, has drawn attention from lawmakers and regulators globally, concerned it could be used to threaten national security, amplify influence operations or facilitate fraud.
Deals among the small number of powerful players and Big Tech have raised antitrust concerns.
Show Full Article
The FTC orders will allow the agency to scrutinize the inner workings of deals between Microsoft, Google and Amazon and AI providers to help antitrust and consumer protection agency understand how these deals have affected competition.
It also signals to the industry that “we’re watching, we’re learning and we will continue to observe” and that if the time comes for future action, the agency will be fully prepared, said former FTC chair William Kovacic, who teaches at George Washington University law school.
The extensive document request seeks details on how the partnerships with Big Tech influence strategy and “decisions around the pricing of products and services; decisions around the granting of access to products and services; and decisions around personnel.”
The agency, which also wants information on exclusivity agreements, said the companies have 45 days to respond to the orders.
Google said it hoped the inquiry would “shine a bright light on companies” that are less open than it is and that have a “long history of locking-in customers.”
Last June, FTC staff published a blog post laying out areas of potential anticompetitiveness, adding they would use the “full range of tools to identify and address unfair methods of competition.” It said competition was especially important in the three areas of data, talent and computational resources.
During her first visit to Silicon Valley as the FTC chair, Lina Khan said AI is a theme the agency was studying to determine if the technology have been controlled by a handful of companies.
Corporate investors such as Microsoft and Amazon have dominated AI funding. The two companies accounted for 90% of generative AI private fundraising in 2023, up from about 40% on average in prior years, according to an analyst note from Morgan Stanley.
This month, Politico reported the U.S. Justice Department and FTC were in discussions over which agency can probe ChatGPT maker OpenAI on antitrust grounds, including the AI firm’s partnership with Microsoft.
Microsoft’s tie-up with OpenAI has raised antitrust scrutiny after the U.S. software giant committed to invest over $10 billion into OpenAI last year.
OpenAI and Anthropic, known as foundational models companies, develop large AI models trained on large quantities of data.
Anthropic has raised $4 billion from Amazon and over $2 billion from Alphabet. The outsized funding by the two AI companies accounted for over 10% of total U.S. venture funding in startups last year, PitchBook data showed.
The large amount of funding by the big tech, sometimes in the form of cloud credits instead of cash, has raised eyebrows from the venture and startup community.
(Reporting by Jasper Ward in Bengaluru and Krystal Hu in New York, Chris Sanders in Washington; Editing by Doina Chiacu, Marguerita Choy and David Gregorio)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibilty for its content.