SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: What are my options?
DATE: 2024-10-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gggtes/what_are_my_options/

--- POST TEXT ---

I(23f) broke up with my bf 5 months ago, but very recently I have discovered some extremely concerning details about him. He is studying in Germany and last month came back to India for the holidays. He could not accept the break up whatsoever, and has been trying to keep the emotional dependency going by telling me lie after lie about something bad happening to him. It is PSYCHOTIC the kind of lies he's told me. Being SA'd, being hospitalized in the ICU and almost dying, impersonating his aunt updating me about his "condition", being in a wheelchair, and this week- he told me his mother died. I was in shock, and feelings emotionally drained from all of this, I felt something was very very off and I started to contact his cousins, his roommate, and his mother's workplace. All of it was lies. 

Now I am in serious hot water, I don't know how to get rid of him. He has my mother's number, and I blocked him from her phone but he still has the number. I have told her about all this. Today she got a call from a Pakistani number (starting with +92) asking about me saying "aapki beti ____ hai na, wo kaha hai?" "your daughter's name is ___ right? where is she now?". The picture of the guy was of a police officer. He cut the call after that and didn't contact her again, as of yet. None of this makes sense, and is most likely him playing another game to mess with me. I don't know any pakistanis, but he does in Germany. My mom said it has got to be him. (I got to know this is likely a scam that's unrelated, but im mentioning this just in case) 

Now that I know how LOW he can stoop...I am very scared that he is capable of leaking private pictures of me online or send them to my family. I can't block him, because he could use someone else's number to threaten me, or lie that my images have been leaked to get my attention. I don't know what to do, I am playing passive with him as of now and pretending I don't know anything. Please tell me what my options are, I don't want my extended family to know, or any of this to get to the press or something. Can I take action before he *actually* does something?