SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank harrasment for cross selling products and privacy issues
DATE: 2025-03-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1j4v7jt/bank_harrasment_for_cross_selling_products_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Redditors,

Wanted your advice here, so from August last year, I started receiving calls for loan and credit cards from my bank(where I hold my salary account) and upon complaining to the bank through email they denied that they are calling or even sharing my data to other. After insisting to them that either they shared my data or it has been stolen which should have been their responsibility of safeguarding their data they took few numbers from which the calls originated and sharing the call records. They still denied that the calls were from them. After a while I got fed up and I complained to the RBI on their grievance portal and started that the bank to pay me 100000 rs for this data breach/ mental harrasment and unsolicited calls despite opting for DnD and no inquiry of any banking products. The bank staff then came back to seriously investigate and called me up few times to say that they know that their DSA calling me and they do not have control and asked me to close the complaint and promising that I will not get any calls. I denied to close the complaint and asked the bank to pay me compensation for harrasment. Finally the bank sent me an email stating that it was one of their DSA and also they have taken appropriate actions and offered me rs 5000 as a gesture of apology. I am yet to respond but really not in a mood to settle for such a petty amount as well as teach the bank a lesson to take my data privacy request seriously. My RBI complaint is still open from 35 days now and definitely RBI will ask the bank their response for closure and press them for closure. 

What are the options I take so that I get a good compensation from the bank and also it serves them a lesson not to share data randomly? 

Thanks in advance