Hi, I was approved for 45k credit with mobikwik in february 2019. Interest rate is ridiculous 40%, processing charges and transfer to bank account additional charges. I've paid every single penny, never exhausted the entire 45k limit. I withdrew 10k back in january 2020, paying timely emis, no defaults at all. I have 2 more installments to go, i've been out of work due to the economic situation, lockdown covid 19. I've sent 20 emails requesting for rbi moratorium, but some issue with mobikwik app internal glitches, i could not avail the rbi moratorium. Inspite of writing several emails, talking to support reps all for 10k, nothing is resolved. They run emi cheques 5 times a single month, overdraft charges are inr 500 for every instance. Collection agents from mobikwik have access to all contact details on your phone, aadhaar details, pan card, bank accounts, debit card all information is hacked into when you give permission to mobikwik app. Every single person associated with mobikwik is a victim of identity theft, no data privacy, customer's information is sold to 3rd parties by the company, mobikwik employees. All goons, are hired as reps to harass, threaten, bully customer's The rowdy collection agents will call employer's, family members, relatives, cousins from other states, threaten them of dire consequences, harassing people who have no part or clue about the loan or the person in whose name the loan was sanctioned. All for a 10k loan!!! Customer support either by phone, email or app has no response. Absolutely no resolution. Beware of mobikwik! Think atleast a million times before you download mobikwik app or use their services. There's enough complaints on the web and nothing is taken care off to protect customers or company credibility. Mobikwik doesn't care, as they've fudged customer's financial information, sold to 3rd parties. Only customer's are in trouble, mobikwik is not reliable one bit, it's a scam, Beware, beware, beware!!! Save your money, identity and yourselves from fraudulent company mobikwik. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (3)