SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: What sort of business is this
DATE: 2023-08-20
SCORE: 487
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/15voz9l/what_sort_of_business_is_this/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had a friend in college. she was studious now she has cracked her CA exams probably in first attempt. So I have massive respect for her for cracking CA. Last time we met she told me that she's working at some company and also doing her own business besides it and said she'll be going to be cororpati(millionaire) in five years with this business. two days ago I got a call from her. she told me that there is an opportunity to be a partner in her business and she asked me if I'm interested. Now I'm pretty average 24 year old guy I got a regular job and regular life. business is something I never thought about. But since the call was from my 'CA' friend I got excited. I thought this is something legit and I can turn my life around with this. I talked on a call with her partner and they asked me to meet he also told me that we'll be visiting some South East Asian country regarding the same. So today I met them in Starbucks for possible business partnership.

 So i went there and she was already attending some other person before me i also heard she having same conversation with someone on call as me. So i figured this opportunity isn't only for me. my friend told me about one of her partner who's also a CA by qualification she lookup to alot and she's also her mentor and all about how she deals with multi-millionairs and she can change my mindset. I thought she's some big shot and I have to act professional with her. Her partner arrived and started talking to me she didn't ask me what's my qualifications or about my business experience. She asked me what's my salary and all about family and stuff. Then she told i should be ready to do whatever it takes to make money and money is all that matters what you do for it doesn't. Then she grabbed a pen and paper and started to fear monger me with calculations of my future expenses like marriage and home loans and how I'm going to be broke and can't achieve anything just with my regular office job and how joining her business can turn my life around. Then at last she told me I'm required to give her 3 hours of my time to the business everyday which I was ready to do. Next she asked me to commit 5 lakh rupees for business as one time investment on the spot without taking any time. She said I have to commit 5 lakh rupees to the business as capital and proceed to tell me about the revenue. She said in worst case I'll be making 5 lakh per month and best case 10 lakh per month and I'll be millionaire in 5 years which I found very fishy. She talked about her big dreams and how she wants to make deals of real estates like subjiwala sales tomatoes. 

 all these big talks but both of them looked broke to me by apperances. If they are in so much profitable business why my friend still owns old redmi phone. Why her boss who hangs out with millionairs has dusty old iPhone 11. She told all these shit for 1.5 hours but didn't say a single word about what the business actually is or what sort of business is this. She said she'll only tell me about the business once I commit 5 lakhs to business on the spot. She said don't tell your parents and take loan by yourself and she'll help me for loan with her agents. I said this it too good to be true and giving me that ebiz scheme vibes so I declined her offer and said thank you for time and left the cafe with her permission. Few minutes letter after leaving cafe i got call from my friend and she said I disrespected her partner by not saying her sorry and she was offended cause I said "it's too good to be true" and I'll see when she becomes millionaire in some years. that just tells me that my friend genuinely believes in it. 

Now I have so many questions. What sort of business do you think this was? Is this legit? Did I just decline a life changing opportunity? Or did I dodge a bullet? Is my CA friend brainwashed? Am I the only one who's finding this fishy? I can't come to any conclusion since two CAs were involved in this business I can't tell if it was some real business or some fraud scheme. Please give your opinion.