SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need Help - Guy Scammed me 
DATE: 2025-01-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1i6b3a6/need_help_guy_scammed_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys I 23m working in software company and living in hostel, please help me how to take action by reading below story.

It was october 2024 and I was planning to buy mobile phone for me and my mom on the sales happening in Amazon and Flipkart, there is guy (santhan) in my hostel said that he knows a friend who is giving discount on mobiles by claiming gst &amp; (something he said I didn't remember) ,I trusted santhan and said okay.

Santhan given my number to his frnd ( jay) and asked to call me ,jay said he will give 18% discount on mobiles, so I said okay with the trust of santhan,and he given some reasons like we need to add into cart and pay on the spot money ,so we need the money before itself.

And paid 15k for one mobile and 24k another mobile through credit cards ( jay only taken money from his mobile and I said otp) ,one transaction got failed (24k) ,he this will return to my account ( till now it didn't returns) and when I raised dispute the amount went to that guy only.

And the morning he called me and said pay the remaining amount so I can book the mobile like that then I paid again 22k via phone pe,and 4k is pending santhan told that I need to send him so he will send the amount. And the reality is 4k is santhan commision and jay only told me that santhan taken comission.

Then I fell into one more trap said by jay that If I pay 50k via credit card I will give 10k extra like that ,then I paid him 47k which I blindly trusted. 

After 2 days the phone not came ,the guy is picking up the call and he is saying I will return the amount like that ,but till now he didn't returned.

Somehow he is from state and I founded the guy address via Facebook and went to his home ,later got to know he is used to this scams ,and no one given police complaints as jay is saying I will return the amount but not sure when I will return.and he is delaying delaying delaying.

I went to his home his dad is there ,jay is no there ( he won't be at home, coz scam people will come to his home and ask money),and the a
Jay told to his dad that to give checks to me.

So I have taken 2 cheque with the amount written in it (47k and 40k) and the amount which is failed transaction he didnt included in it,and a Bond with signed by his dad.

So the total amount is 107000 I need to get all the amount I had paid via online ,and currently having 2 cheques with me and 6 days left to expire and the bond which is signed by his dad.

Bank account he given me for cheque is created by jay only for upstox with the name of his dad,and given me those cheques.

So my questions are below
1) what to do now ?
2) can I put those 2 cheques in bank and file a cheque bounce case?
3) can I raise a police complaint on jay ( it's been already 3 months finished,not sure if Police ask these things)
4) I asked santhan to call him ,but jay is blocked him also.,can I put Santhan on spot?

Lawyers or who experienced these type of things please help me , currently I was in debt of all the amount which I can't loose.