SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank not unblocking account more than 30 days after court order (URGENT)
DATE: 2025-02-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1iic98g/bank_not_unblocking_account_more_than_30_days/

--- POST TEXT ---

tl;dr bank not opening account after court case decided in our favor; our gold is held somewhere, and auntie had surgery and needs good healthcare atm (while we are broke and without money)

I already wrote about case of my uncle who got scammed and robbed by a bank employee, cousin, his lawyer and other people. They stole around 3 crore. There were court hearings and some police work and around 1.4 crore was found as of this moment. 1.1 crore in bank accounts and 30 lakh was stashed as gold to be hidden. People that took part in the scam were sentenced to 6 years and 8 months, while the other guy is no where it be seen.

Late December, the court decided the case, and everything went into the favour of my uncle. His account was blocked at the time for safety issues (because the banker player a role in money being stolen). The court issued an order for the account to be open (right after the hearing), and the bank said it will take at most until first Monday of February, as January is very busy for them. This deadline passed and now they say 15th February. Lawyer said that he will try to put some pressure on them through court so this deadline is 100% sure thing, but I don't trust him much either.

Second thing- police found 30 lakh in gold that one of them bought and tried to hide. Do you have any idea where this gold would be held and why we still didn't get it yet. We are going to talk to the lawyer tomorrow, but like I said, we were broke when the case happened, and it is hard to trust new people after all this. We would really need access to this, as potentially, there will be an urgent surgery soon (already happened and now we need to paid for treatmants) and we are out of money. I really don't want someone close dying, or getting permanent injury (was stroke related) because someone is doing this to us without any care for human life.