SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: FedEx Cyber crime fraud 
DATE: 2024-03-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1b8sqf2/fedex_cyber_crime_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

I almost fell victim to a pretty convincing scam today. Got a call from a woman claiming to be a FedEx rep, saying that one of my packages was stopped from being sent from Mumbai to Thailand because it contained illegal material. 

She claimed that the parcel was found to contain:

6 passports
5000 USD
2Kg clothes
Credit card and bank documents
140g MDMA

She had my actual Aadhar number and full name. That's what turned off my bullshit detection and flipped on my concern. 

She "forwarded" my call to the Mumbai cyber crimes department. The guy who took down my info spoke perfect English. Lots of follow up questions that made it sound like a legit investigation. He said that a lot of people's Aadhars were being used for illicit activities and money laundering. 

He said I could come to the cyber crimes office in Andheri with a lawyer, or give a recorded statement on Skype. I chose the Skype account: mumpolice. gov. in @ outlook. com

The website he sent me to, to register a complaint looked legit. 

www. mumbaipolice. gov. in

They sent me a very real looking document for the registered complaint. 

He even had side actors. A junior he called to check for other illicit activity on my Aadhar. Apparently, 3 bank accounts were created in my name to launder money. 

He transferred my call to his "Supervisor". At this point, I'm worried about being implicated as a suspect and I was cooperating. 

Finally, came the ask. They sent a document stating that transactions on my bank accounts need to be investigated, so the RBI will be removing funds from my accounts for 15 minutes and once they were cleared, the funds would be returned. And I was not to disclose any part of this investigation with anyone during this 15 minute window. 

I said I'd need to discuss this with my wife first and I hung up. Moved all my funds out of bank accounts associated with my Aadhar. Locked my Aadhar. It'll stay that way for a least 6 weeks. 

Apparently, this has happened to other people in Bangalore too. If you look up Mumbai cyber crime fraud, you'll find a bunch of news stories with the same basic plot.