SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The NoBroker and OLX Property Scam: Why you should be careful and how you can avoid them!
DATE: 2022-09-29
SCORE: 67
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/xrablm/the_nobroker_and_olx_property_scam_why_you_should/

--- POST TEXT ---

You want to rent a flat. Of course, nobody wants to pay a brokerage, so you start searching for listings on NoBroker and OLX. After searching for a nice place for yourself, you find the perfect place. The property is lovely, with a decent rent and reasonable deposit.

Once you contact the owner, he seems to be a nice man (scammer), working in a government department (Income Tax or Army). They will talk to you nicely and tell you that they have already received the token from someone else for the property that day itself. However, because you seem exceptionally nice to him, they will return the token and give the property to you.

Now, they will ask you to deposit a small token amount via UPI, ranging from ₹3000 to ₹5000, an amount that one probably won't mind. If you send it off, your number will be blocked, and the scammer will stop picking up your calls.

NoBroker and OLX do not have any liability, because they put up disclaimers and practices for safe use. Even though, these platforms do not have a process to identify and delist scams until and unless they are reported by the end consumers.

Here are the red flags one must keep an eye out for:

1. The seller/owner of the advertisement lives in a different city and works in a government department.
2. If you ask, they send their "official" government-issued ID cards to you.
3. They ask for a token amount without letting you see the property.
4. They promise to courier keys to the property after you pay the amount.

These scammers operate from remote areas of the country, where traceability and arrest are not possible due to on-ground factors. These factors include bribery, constant shift in location, unidentifiable personnel, etc.

If you have been scammed in such a way, here's what you can do:

1. File an FIR with your nearest police station or register a cybercrime complaint.
2. Contact your bank ASAP and provide them with all the relevant proofs and FIR copy, requesting for transaction reversal.
3. Contact the scammer's bank, providing them with all the relevant proofs and FIR copy, and request details on the scammer's account.

Unfortunately, scammers are rarely caught in such cases. Please be careful before trusting a stranger online.