SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I've been scammed by a College (Conestoga) in Canada. Be warned.
DATE: 2021-05-18
SCORE: 61
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/netbq8/ive_been_scammed_by_a_college_conestoga_in_canada/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm from India and I've applied to Conestoga college in Canada. I've paid the fee and the whole process was complete. I got my student visa and finished the registration process. Right in the evening of the day my class was supposed to start, I found out they rejected my offer out of nowhere with no explanation. They wouldn't reply to my mails. I then found out I was not alone. They had done this to a lot of students who's applied here. They've accepted the offer, taken our fees and then plainly rejected the offer right the day I was supposed to start my classes and won't reply to our mails anymore. 

A few students did get to start their classes and that made me think that they get to appear like a legitimate college while they scam others. India is a rural nation and often times the students who apply for colleges like these just have parents like mine who live in borderline poverty and use their life savings to send their kids to a better place. It's disgusting to see a state certified public college do something like this but then I found people from previous batches have the same problems with the college which shows that hardly anyone cares about this issue in Canada. Why should the government care about the complaints of a third world citizen? Especially when that citizen just dumped his life savings into their country? Students who got in are obviously happy with the arrangement and the one's who didn't don't have a place to report this to. It's the perfect crime. 

I know they provide a refund but I've heard that takes at least 4 months to come and don't give the full amount. Do this to a 100 students with an average fee of 10,000CAD for the first year and they get a total of 1M CAD. Bank interest alone on that amount makes it worth pulling off. Obviously, I don't know what their real motives are behind doing this. But one thing is for sure, this will continue for as long as the college exists. There is no authority investigating this and I don't think there ever will be one. 

I understand things are tough here in India but I expected something better from the Canadian government. How can it just look past a public institution conning the poor? And I don't think there's a place I can report this to either. The college obviously couldn't care less judging by how they just won't reply to emails anymore. Evil exists everywhere in all shapes and forms. But it's just heartbreaking coming from a country like this. But this also gave me a whole new appreciation for my home country.

I have been severely depressed for the past year due to the pandemic and saw my career come to a grinding halt. I was really looking forward to studying there and continue my career with Conestoga. And rejecting my application after I got my visa has made me suicidal. I don't know how to face my parents after losing a lot of their savings on just the processing fees involved in this whole process. Some of us just don't get a lot of opportunities in life. I may or may not move on from this especially when so many of my family members are dying of covid. It's just the worst feeling in the world to know I have been conned. But it's even worse to know that no one will care. And even the ones who do care can't change what's happening. 

I can try writing reviews warning the future applicants but I know it wouldn't matter. I applied here looking at the positive side, at the students who actually got in. Students will continue doing the same and keep having their dreams crash or worse. I realize this will never stop. Indians applying to this college, be warned. India, despite all its issues is a phenomenal country to live in. I'd say you're better off applying for colleges and universities back here unless it's very reputed.

I had to get this out since I have no one else to talk to about this. Thankyou for reading :')