SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Govt cracks down on SMS scammers; blacklists 8 principal entities found spewing fraud msgs
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2024-05-27
URL: https://theprint.in/economy/govt-cracks-down-on-sms-scammers-blacklists-8-principal-entities-found-spewing-fraud-msgs/2104079/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, May 27 (PTI) In a major crackdown on SMS scammers, the government has blacklisted eight ‘principal entities’ behind SMS headers that were used for sending over 10,000 fraudulent messages over the past three months, according to an official release.
The Department of Telecom (DoT), in collaboration with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has taken decisive action to protect citizens from potential SMS fraud through the Sanchar Saathi initiative, it said.
Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) under MHA provided information about the misuse of eight SMS headers for sending fraudulent communications for committing cybercrime.
Show Full Article
It was noted that more than 10,000 fraudulent messages were sent using these eight headers in the past three months. The eight principal entities which were the owners of these eight SMS headers have been blacklisted.
“All the 8 PEs along with the 73 SMS Headers and 1522 SMS content templates owned by them have been blacklisted. None of these Principal Entities, SMS Headers or templates can now be used to send SMS by any telecom operator. The DoT has prevented further potential victimization of citizens by blacklisting these entities,” the release said.
‘Principal entities’ in telecom parlance refer to business or legal entities sending out commercial messages to telecom subscribers through SMS. A header means an alphanumeric string assigned to a ‘principal entity’ to send commercial communications.
The DoT has prevented further potential victimisation of citizens by blacklisting these entities, and reiterated its commitment to safeguarding citizens against cybercrime.
“Citizens can report suspected fraud communications at Chakshu facility on Sanchar Saathi to help DoT in prevention of misuse of telecom resources for cyber-crime and financial frauds,” the release said.
It warned that use of mobile numbers for telemarketing activities is not permitted.
If a consumer uses their telephone connection to send promotional messages, their connection will be liable for disconnection on the first complaint, and their name and address may be blacklisted for a period of two years.
Telemarketing calls can be identified by their prefixes: 180, 140, it said asserting that 10-digit numbers are not permitted for telemarketing.
“To report spam, dial 1909 or use the DND (Do Not Disturb) service,” the release added. PTI MBI PRS MR SHW SHW
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.