SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Scamming in the name of donations to orphanage in Baiyappanahalli.
DATE: 2019-09-10
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/d2aqrn/scamming_in_the_name_of_donations_to_orphanage_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Since the past month, there have been active donation seekers in Baiyappanahalli, claiming to be from an orphanage which I think is a scam. 

The reason is that when they approach you, they beg for only 1 minute of your time. If you refuse they ask you 3-4 times until you give in. If you have a conversation they say that you can make an impact by donation to orphaned children and if you refuse to donate, they make you guilty for not donating to the cause. If you say that you don't have hard cash, they also have Paytm and Google pay and all sorts of e-wallets that you could think off. (Maybe the next time they ask me money I'll be like *I only have bitcoins*). And most of the donation seekers are ladies ( young enough to be college students) to easily build trust (we are more likely to trust ladies than men) . They also have pamphlets about their organization to make it seem more authentic. 

Although I don't have concrete evidence about the donation seekers being a scam, just a friendly reminder to people in the city/visiting the city, that this is a possible scam that they need to be wary off.

To avoid future interactions from them I just shake my head and keep walking when they ask me for a minute of my time. They are trained to not take no for an answer from you and keep the conversation going with them. Since actions speak louder than words, just keep walking and gesture them with the hand not to approach you and they will stop wasting time with you and approach the next target. If you feel guilty of not donating to the orphanages or any other charity, go to the government website of registered NGO's dedicated to these causes and donate to them. Please do not trust anyone from the street who ask for donations as most of these turn out to be scams.

TL:DR: PLEASE BE WARY OF PEOPLE ASKING DONATIONS ON THE STREET. 

Edit: Please forgive any grammar mistakes in the post. Want to improve my English. Any suggestions for improvement are welcome 😊.