SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Scam by Tonique liquor store
DATE: 2024-01-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/19ap4vj/scam_by_tonique_liquor_store/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is to inform everyone in Bangalore, there is a big scam going on with online delivery from Tonique liquor store in Bangalore.

They have an online delivery service phone number (in google map) through which they are scamming to deliver liquor, instead they are taking the credit card number, cvv from the customer and pulling out every penning from the credit card balance. Later they are claiming that it is not their number , and asked to complain to police ( which indirectly doesn’t help because of their political strength). They have this phone number from last 2-3 years showing that they deliver liquor online, instead the person picking up the phone first asking for the money (through credit card, and with the cvv and otp pulling out every single amount from users bank account) . Going to Tonique store and asking about the number, they clearly says the number is not theirs . Inspite being one of the biggest liquor store in Bangalore they do not remove that scam number imprinted with their Google map store address. If you visit the store, one of the execute will say they do not do online delivery and 1-2 of them will provide their phone number and says if you want online delivery they can provide. The reason why we can say Tonique is involved in this scam is because this is going on for last 2-3 years, multiple people are scammed , money lost, but still they did not remove this scam number from Google map. Also the person on the other side of the number is desperate to get the otp cvv of your credit card, try to pull all the amount, and after doing that he is courageous enough not to block/change/break the sim, he clearly knows multiple police complains lounged but nothing will even break this because he has Tonique and political power behind him, so no cyber security report police report will help here. Big SCAM BY TONIQUE LIQUER STORE HERE. People of Bangalore please be aware.
The scammer phone number is 088227 66564. You can call in this number and see for yourself.