Respected All, Company in fraud activities : Limafly Overseas Career Consultant, India https://www.limafly.com I would like to draw your attention to a fake and fraud company that i have been a victim and got in trap with such scam. I initiated a process for Canada immigration PR VISA with Limafly, Delhi and I had paid them a fee too. I had all the documents ready, Limafly had to just help me with the application process. Now coming to the services, after the amount and document submission they started delaying the process from their side until the contract is valid, meanwhile I contacted the person who is in documentation and the chain goes on. This continued for six months and yet my online application was not filed inspite of being providing all the documents on time. After six months just they asked me to pay more money for which I denied as they didn’t do anything during past six months. Limafly again promised that i should not get worried as they are processing my documents in mean while just to keep me calm and to get me in confidence there come as new operation or so called legal advisor name Sameer who is introduce to me. He talks sweet and ensuring me that my case is further moved and that i will get the updates soon. Later he comes with list of new documents which again will take time to get courier. Again time is wasted and more then 08 months have passed to completed the process. With no signs of having office contact details, the directors of company have resigned during the time of submitting my documents. At end there the money invested for bright future is in drak corner and amount of time is been wasted behind such fraud people. Such people can't succeed in life no matter how they try to cheat honest people and take away their hard earn money. I request the authorities to help me in getting my refund and punish such companies by blacklisting them & their owners who are here to cheat people. Please be careful and keep the committee updated with such fraud names and companies who have planned to built their own empire in fraud way. Regards Manish Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (1)