SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Baskin Robbins Scam (Mini-Scam)
DATE: 2023-11-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/17njxxu/baskin_robbins_scam_miniscam/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR : at last

So I went this evening for a stroll in Park Square Mall and decided to have an ice cream at Baskin Robbins. Ordered a Small Scoop with cone. 

When I asked the cashier for the price, he first said 195. I paid the amount via Google pay and asked him the price again to verify. This time he said 185! I informed him that I paid 195 because he said so and asked for a 10 ruppe refund. He said he doesn't have any cash with him. I stood my ground and asked how does a ice-cream shop in a mall operate with no cash! I asked him to Google pay back the extra amount but again he refused saying the Google pay number belongs to the 'boss' and he doesn't want to disturb him for a meagre Rs. 10. This led to a mini argument where I basically told him Rs. 10 is not a small amount for me and if it is a small amount can I pay him 175 instead of 185. With no foreseeable solution, he offered an extra scoop of ice cream and I agreed. When I asked for the bill, he said the bill wasn't generating because there was some server problem. 

I didn't think much of it and moved away and it was while savouring the ice cream, I realised may be if they quoted the wrong price, they might also be charging me incorrectly. To confirm my suspicions, After eating, I went back to the outlet and demanded a bill. They dilly-dallied for a few minutes but finally generated the bill. Upon checking it, as excepted they had billed me the Regular Scoop instead of Small Scoop. 

In confronted them with this. They sort of tried making some excuses saying I didn't tell the Cashier what size I ordered etc. And tried confuse me with the extra rupee issue but I held my ground and asked for refund or else I would escalate this to their manager. This seemed to work and surprisingly, the cashier who had no cash suddenly now had cash and refunded me the extra amount. (Small Scoop costs : 137)

Looking back at this incident, although the amount involved was small, but I think this kind of scam is being pulled by a lot of QSRs where they shortchange the Small, Regular and large portions and then make excuses on bill generation. 

TLDR : Baskin Robbins tried to scam be by charging regular scoop price for a small Scoop price and quoting incorrect price. Confronted them got my money back and an extra scoop of ice cream.