SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Lien on my bank account for an erroneous UPI transaction which I reversed back to the sender
DATE: 2025-04-24
SCORE: 46
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1k6iw8z/lien_on_my_bank_account_for_an_erroneous_upi/

--- POST TEXT ---

On March 11, I received an amount of Rs 2000 from an unknown sender via UPI. I raised this with my bank immediately and they said they can only reverse the amount once a formal complaint is raised.

I kept receiving calls from the sender which I initially ignored thinking to be a scam. But later when I picked up, I told them to raise a complaint and the amount would be reversed.

They did the same but their bank said it would take upto 60 days for that to happen. So they called again and requested me to reverse the amount as they were poor and 60 days was a long time. I asked my bank again and they told me that I can reverse the amount on my own if the sender withdrew the complaint.

I told the sender the same thing and they called their bank and withdrew the complaint. They said it would be withdrawn in 48 hours. So, I got the PAN and Aadhar card of the unknown sender and reversed the transaction via NEFT. I also proactively informed my bank by sending all the details via email attaching PAN and Aadhar of the sender along with NEFT transaction details and asked them to treat this as resolved in case a dispute is raised.

Now, cut to yesterday, I saw a lien raised against my account and Rs 2000 (erroneous amount) frozen for the same. I raised a complaint with the bank referencing my previous communication and they said they can’t remove the lien unless the complaint is formally withdrawn by sender’s bank.

Now this leaves me in a pickle as it is not possible for me to make the sender withdraw the complaint. I don’t even know who they are and where in India they live. They already told me that they withdrew the complaint so I don’t think they will take the pain to get it withdrawn again just for an unknown person given that they already got the money.

What are my options here? I have pan and aadhar of the sender, NEFT transaction of the reversal and whatsapp chat confirming that the amount was credited back.