9/Sep/2022: I received a message that said, "Need part-time job to earn money in Amazon trading business." Yes, I replied on Instagram. JYOTHI is her given name. She stated that she has a part-time online trading business. Since I was in need of money, I accepted a job offer. She texted me through Watsapp with a link to an app called "AMZ MALL, " which I registered to using my contact number. She then redirected me to another girl, "indira pushpa" in telegram and "HarshitaNimore" in aadhar card name, who instructed me to pay Rs.300 and provided a task. I completed the task she assigned to me, and she credited me with Rs.900 on September 29, 2022. 30/Sep/2022: They both started following me to invest, even though I told them I wasn't interested in joining and wasn't willing to pay anymore. 1/Oct/2022 and 2/Oct/2022: They started following me back and told me that they would not charge me a single rupee and that you could only work on the task. If it is not comfortable for me, I can leave the task. I agreed that "indira pushpa" in Telegram had begun their five tasks. initially it asked 300, I asked her (indira pushpa) she replied that malls randomly assigned items to everyone so you need to pay you cant come out like that she convinced me.. then later she started to ask nearly 30000., then 8000 I was fighting with them each time she just convinced me like this is the last I (Indra puspa) told her she will not allow to make payment hereafter, .. My account was blocked due to a large number of phonepe, gpay, and IMPS transactions. She stated that payment would be due on October 3, 2022. 3/Oct/2022: I paid 280, 000 to get my ovrall, and she told me I needed 50, 000 to finish the task. when I attempted to withdraw my funds She abruptly informed me that I needed to pay a security deposit of $90, 000 before she could assist me in withdrawing my funds. Otherwise, my funds will not be credited to my account. I don't have a single penny either, so I asked them, even though I borrowed from the bank, neighbours, and friends, and I don't have anyone and I'm not sure I'll be able to pay, to please ray my amount like that and all.. they said it's your problem, and if you want your money, you have to pay.I've paid more than my limits and I'm not sure how to get out of this.. again, they both started behind me. I dealt with it calmly. I am expecting you to take strong action and return my 2, 80, 000... Note: Until 280, 000, they will tell me the same thing: "you will have to pay this time to withdraw the amou t else you cant take your amount" blackmailed me For your convenience, I have attached the ladies' company information, aadhar card of one lady, transaction details via phone pe and gpay, and a bank statement and the messages they both communicated to watsapp and telegram. Please assist me in resolving this issue in a positive manner as soon as possible. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (14)