SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Arlo app scam
DATE: 2021-07-07
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/oflop6/arlo_app_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Rather disappointed with myself and the Google Play Store. We purchased some Arlo cameras and they were delivered yesterday morning. I started setting everything up and the paperwork said to go to the Play Store and download the Arlo app to set up the cameras. I find the app and install it, select camera and it starts "detecting" the cameras. It hits 83% an the gives an "Error 4208" and says no Arlo device detected. I try a few different things with no luck. The app says to call support and has a call button. I decide to call the number on our landline so that I can access the app easily. By this time my husband is home, asking me about the problem, and I am, unfortunately, not paying full attention to the phone. The phone answers with a generic message about support and calls being monitored for "your protection". A woman with an Indian accent comes on the line and asks for the name of the device I am setting up. I tell her Arlo camera and she asks me to run the app and give her the error message. I try and get the same error as the last six times. She tells me to go the Play Store and install their "support app", which turns out to be Team Viewer. Alarm bells start to pinging, but I am trying to shush my husband and listen to instructions. One thing to be aware of is that I do not save passwords on important apps such as email and banking on my phone so I wasn't too concerned about giving access. I watch as she opens closes and then reopens the Arlo app and the same thing happens. Then she tells me that that Error 4208 means that my network is infected with malware and spyware. By this point I had already realized I was on the phone with a scammer. I told her to fuck off, that no, my network was not "infected" and this was a scam. I immediately closed out Team Viewer, removed both it and the Arlo app and restarted my phone for good measure. I then went back on the Play Store, found the REAL Arlo app and had my cameras setup in no time. I then wrote a review on the original app identifying it as a scam and reported it to the Play Store, not that they will actually do anything about it. I think that is what I find the most frustrating, you can report them to Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc, but they don't shut them down.