SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Black magic on me by parents and siblings.
DATE: 2025-02-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1isxo4b/black_magic_on_me_by_parents_and_siblings/

--- POST TEXT ---

It's an event that will span to more than ten years. I always had the wish to pursue spirituality. My father took me to a psychiatrist in 2007 and put me on medications, saying I am too spiritual. I do my yoga everyday. Around 2016, I was going through a bad medical condition. Vitamin B12 deficiency.
In the meantime, I found my parents clandestinly adding stuff, like honey in roti dough. I questioned it. I got fed up. I left home to Thiruvannamalai, a temple City in tamilnadu. In two days, I returned, thinking I need psychiatric help. Again I continued with medication. I felt it was like a recurring income for doctor. Around 2021, when I discuss about my problem, he used to say it's just a sleeping pill. One day told him, if it's just a sleeping pill, I can try without it. Because I know my body and mind, a little better.
It was fine. It so happened, during 2022 to 2024. I would fall in love for person that I can never have in life. And when i tell this to my sister, and she goes like, "do you wanna get married". I said, no. Because I am already a divorcee. And I know the pain.
Around 2024, I been to a temple in madhya Pradesh. Suddenly my depression was gone.
Again I was happy. Great life...
Few weeks, later I am again having symptoms like I had in 2016. I left the house. Started staying away from the house. Me, and my sister work in same bank. She knows more people in bank than me. She turned my branch colleagues and started the game. I again left to Thiruvannamalai. Stayed there for 10 days. Another 20 days in coimbatore. I returned from coimbatore to my place. I wanted to quit the job, stay away from nagging family. But within oneday, I stayed at home, fight broke out. I left the home. My father, you take your mobile, laptop and bike with you and never return. I didn't take my bike. I travelled to many places after that. To Rameswaram Trichy etc.
I noticed, during the last leg of the bus commute. I police guy would hop on the bus.
I know it because, my father was also in a force in Kerala. I came to Thiruvannamalai. I was doing circumamblation. And when, I sat at some place. A woman came, and tried to start a conversation. Some sanyasi interfered, she left. I knew, Thiruvannamalai was not safe. I hopped the bus, in the women police in Mufti and to police men were in the bus. I felt something's wrong. I jumped down from the bus. And when I reached near a traffic cop. I overheard, from the call he was receiving, to follow me. I was so broken down. I went and stood near the police station. A andhra pradesh registered vehicle, stopped and stared at me for few minutes. I called my colleagues. I need help. They never believed me. I took the risk I came back to Kerala, via Bangalore. To Bangalore. I hopped in Karnataka state transport. I sat near a guy. I started talking to him. I was so overwhelmed. I started blurting out. Half down the journey. He asked for the knife, chart cutter, with me. I gave. Few minutes later, he was offering me liquor, which he was carrying in soft drink bottle. I said, "no". The again few minutes later, he called someone in Bangalore. He talked like this, "i got the knife from Mr Thiruvannamalai. I need a banana from Bangalore market. I will arrange the payment." For a second, I felt, if a banana is held in hand, it will look like gun. I didn't know what to do. I thought I will never see a day light again. When the bus reached hosur, this guy fell asleep. I took the chance hopped down from bus, took a taxi to Mysore. From Mysore, I came to Kerala by kerala transport. I came back to my place. I started telling my colleague. About this, nobody believed me. All they were, interested was to feed me. It was June 30th 2024. I created 2 email ids. Sent mail to central home ministry, PMs office. And made a complaint in Mygreivance app. I went the branch.Told them I did such and such things. They again offered me food. I ate it. Suddenly, my palpitations hyped. I blacked out. I asked them to call my father and take me to psychiatrist in Thrissur. 
I told, everything to the doctor. I said, it's okay if I am admitted. Nextday the doctor who took me first, came to me and told, his department is different now. They sedated me. I was telling the doctors, the police followed me, my phone is hacked, my parents are adding substance in my food, they acted like I having problem. Finally they, diagnosed, that I suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. 
I also believed them. I came bank to parent's.
The sedation was so much it was so hard for me to work. They put me in one of the hectic branch in the district.
Around October, I again, fought with father, I said can't go with medication. I am stopping it. He said atleast you take ayurveda. I started taking it. He was okay with it. He told me if you get married everything will be alright.
I knew they weren't stopping the game. I went all away from ayurveda too. All this while, my brother, I trusted him. He was also acting weird. 
Around, January my family again convinced my colleagues to add substance in my food. To an extent, they even contacted the restaurant where I eat. 
Meanwhile I noticed, my sister who lost money in an online scam and then option selling, is spending money on crystals. She is transferring money from dhanlaxmi bank account. She took educational loan for her son to study in Delhi. Only half is transferred rest is converted to savings. My brother who has completed CA, was working as an accountant in a tea estate in coonoor, Nilgiris.
He has transferred Rs 585000/- from his own private sector bank account to his account where I am an employee. The narration being "contract". The day, I expressed doubt on him. The transfers never came.
Then I started, to recover my email id, from which I lodged the complaint in Mygreivance app. The email is nowhere to be found. It was merged to my mail which I started prior 2013. No trace of the newly created mails were seen.
I am being punished from all sides. They trying affect my sanity with substance with the help of my colleagues. I am helpless. What can I do?