SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: immune Medical scam and trying to explain to coworkers it's a scam
DATE: 2022-04-16
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/u4udem/immune_medical_scam_and_trying_to_explain_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

I work in an office for a company once owned by my bosses father. My bosses father likes to use the work email and phone number for personal reasons. Needless to say given the man's old age he is careless and also a prime target for a lot of scammers.

Unfortunately Mr Boss's Dad has had a lot of medical issues recently and has been in and out of the hospital. So when we get a call from "Immune Medical", which while not a hospital any of us are familiar with, it catches our attention for just long enough.

There's some telltale signs for me. The Indian accent (I apologize for the stereotyping), the suspiciously generic English name 'Michael', the constant chattering in the background, the violation of Hippa with speaking of symptoms, but the kicker was the refusal to listen when we said he wasn't here. Instead trying to make it about the coworker who answered the phone.

I'd like to mention we start every phone call with the fact we're a funeral home.

I heard bits and pieces and she happens to keep the phone loud and so I snuck a bit closer, and then told her to just hangup. I can recognize scams, but have a hard time explaining that after a while it's a gut feeling. Especially because I have a hard time clearly explaining myself as is.

She listened to me and hung up, but was curious. I listed the above reasons and she rationalized all of them. "Well people outsource call centers all the time, we do here just in the states. Michael is an easy to understand name it makes it easier to communicate, some people have bad mics that pick up background noise, maybe he's new and accidentally shared too much-" etcetera. In the end she suggested that when he gets back we should bring it up to him. I told her she can if she wants but it's literally a waste of time (phrased nicer than that ofc). She was buthurt that I wasn't caring about his health.

I don't think she's stupid at all, but I'm a generation younger than her. Youngest person at my firm actually, and so there's a bit of a disconnect between our base internet and social knowledge. I understand scams prey on ignorance and vulnerability in being just familiar enough with the topic to seem legit.

What is a good way to explain to my coworker the obvious signs of a scam? Listing individual signs tends to make it easy to deflect, and I struggle to clearly organize solid arguments, so it ends up just derailing very quickly into "it is one I just know it is okay?" Which I can recognize isn't helpful.

And in the unlikely chance I'm wrong and I am in fact ignoring a health problem (which I am confident enough that im 1not), let me know so I can get ahold of my boss's dad to tell him we got a personal call.