SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam about potential love scam...
DATE: 2022-12-26
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/zvemeq/scam_about_potential_love_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Throwaway account btw.

Alright, I know this is weird, but hear me out.

I met this person a few months ago online. A fairly odd meeting place too, an MMORPG. We talked for a few months chatting, then voice chatting then video calling and then they said they actually loved me about 3 months in. Yeah, I had a few red flags rearing in my head, but the person seemed genuine enough. They did not rush to move things private, never asked any money out of me in 5 months (In fact they gave me stuff worth quite an amount) and offered to come meet me first before I would have to try and go meet them. I have familiarized myself with their normal entourage and even got to know some of their relatives. Doing checks online everything works out. Saw them walk out of the house which corresponds to their address and everything. I should mention that I am from Canada and they are from California. They sent me plenty of pictures and we talk daily, not to mention me following along their daily lives throughout the day and it seeming very natural.

Basically, everything checks out so far. However, here is the kicker. A couple weeks ago, *they* receive an e-mail of someone that knows waaaaay too much about them (but seemingly nothing about me) saying that they are onto her for scamming me. She receives another e-mail a week later saying that they will follow up on their threat. Both e-mails are from guerillamail which is... suspicious. Then, they receive a text message thanking them for cancelling their plans to meet me (they haven't) and they receive voice mails from a spoofed number (a few blocks from them but claim to be from Canada) asking them to confirm their identity so they can follow up on their "investigation". Few days later another voicemail, even shorter this time, just asking them to call back. Also, the first voicemail was a male and the second from a female. Both voices seem genuine and have an accent between American and Indian in my opinion ("t"s sounding more like "d"s).

I won't lie that some people around me who I have told some things about this relationship have been suspicious of the whole thing and there are potentially folks who would benefit for seeing us not in a relationship on their side of things.

So basically this is potentially a scam of calling out a potential but at this point not so likely scam. This is a confusing situation.

Could post some of the e-mails or voice messages, although I will have to redact some information since like I said they know waaaay too much about them. I'm guessing there is an information leak somewhere, but it's almost like there is a real person trying to mess with us.

What do you think reddit?