SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Please Lord Save Me... F44 recording me(M16) and my girlfriend nude(F16)
DATE: 2024-09-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fhgz2i/please_lord_save_me_f44_recording_mem16_and_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Please Lord Save Me... F44 recording me(M16) and my girlfriend nude(F16)

It happened last night, I used to be on video calls with my girlfriend all the time and my mom and I used the same wifi connection (important later). Me and my girlfriend have frequent calls where we are both turned on and by consent of both, we proceed to masturbate ONLY WITH CONSENT, we are both very vey attracted to each other and absolutely do not condone forceful activity from either side...

My mother never liked my girlfriend at all and has always made it clear she won't accept me. I live in India and this is a controversial topic but I need serious advice... The lady in the title, F44 is my mother. She threatened to destroy my girlfriend's reputation and push her to suicide... She even threatened that she'd make my girlfriend's family's reputation ruined too...

Leaking nudes in India is a massive issues and my mom has always said that if something happens between me and a girl, she won't hesitate to take the girl's side and get me sent to jail...

I want to send my mother to jail with the following (possibly) charges : Breach Of Privacy, Illegal Possession of Child p@rnograpy (sorry for using the word, don't ban me please), recording of child p#rnography, recording a person without consent and blackmailing a person.

She says it's so that I "study" but she made it clear that she wouldn't hesitate to ruin my girlfriend's life... Please let me know if the charges I am putting are valid, if I am wrong somewhere and if anyone could offer any help, please DM me...

P.S. - I have a post, exactly this, on r/teenrelationships too because I wasn't sure who could help and I'd really request you to take 2 minutes out of your day and help me...