SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Paypal scam
DATE: 2023-01-24
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/10k1avi/paypal_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello,
I have been scammed on a German platform called "kleinanzeigen" (similar to craigslist in the US), this is 100% certain. Talking about 750 euros. I wanted to buy a smartphone (supposedly a Christmas gift that the seller did not want), the seller insisted on payment via paypal with buyer's protection (not unusual, at least in Germany). 
By asking certain questions, I roughly ruled out the usual generally known scams that I looked up before and paid the money. Then he said something in a way that seemed as if he was using a translator, which made me suspicious. He left the offer online after I paid and stopped answering, so I quickly created another account on kleinanzeigen and with that new account expressed interest in buying the still advertised phone. If the guy was an honest seller, this would of course be a very short conversation, but he replied word for word as before, the phone was still available according to the seller and he insisted once again on Paypal with buyer protection. 
The mail address he gave me was almost the same as the first time, looking something like firstname.xy[short number](at)outlook.de, only the number has been changed. 
I continued to play along and I was lucky enough that he wanted to communicate further by mail. 
I sent him a fishing mail, which he opened, and, of course, the scammer is not in Germany but somewhere in India according to the IP address (yes, of course, he could be using a VPN but my gut feeling is that it's indeed India). 
He continues to be in contact with me because I'm stalling and faking payment issues. So far he's buying my bullshit. 
I have now notified Paypal by phone today and described the case. It seems to me that they are going about it in a very standardized way. 
I have to wait until Sunday, then exactly 7 calendar days would have passed since the purchase, and only if he has not sent anything by then, I can file a complaint. 
Everything I have described until then, which obviously shows that the whole thing is a fraud, seemed to be completely irrelevant to paypal so far. 

My question now is: what kind of scam could this be? The way I see it, as soon as I can file a complaint I don't see how paypal won't give me my money back, so I'm relatively chill about the situation. (I've documented everything in a very precise manner with Screenshots and all the exchanged emails are backed up). 
So what does the scammer get out of this? Or is there something I don't see that might turn the tables in a way that might make paypal decide against me? Any tips? 

I am grateful for any help.