SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Filed a complaint against Puneet Superstar for CP and child sexual abuse but no response from police or authorities.
DATE: 2024-12-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1hdyyn5/filed_a_complaint_against_puneet_superstar_for_cp/

--- POST TEXT ---

I filed a complaint against Puneet Superstar, for one of his reels he posted wherein he was touching a naked child of 4yrs in inappropriate way, even touching the child's anus with his fingers which constitutes several sections of POCSO(im a law student).

I first registered complaint on ChildLine but didnt receive any complaint number so i called 1098 and they suggested to directly call 112.

I called 112 twice and it didnt even connect me to an operator. 3rd time it did, the operator first regused to file complaint and told me to do so on cyber Crime portal. I told her im an advocate and law allows me to directly register it over 112.

Then she started asking for details and she was like "oh woh Puneet superstar, okay". Then call ended and i took my complaint number which is 10354900.

After few mins i was contacted by constables and they were on the way to my home, it was midnight so i told them it is inappropriate time and it wont be necessary since its a case of online CP and sexual abuse.

After 10mins i was contacted by IO(Investigating officer) and he asked for details.

Next morning at 11am, IO contacted again and asked same questions and asked about what i do. I told him im a law student and as such.

I called him back and asked if he even got the account of Puneet Superstar since he didnt even ask me any of ids or as such. I even told him i have his number which he uses for promotions.

He said he'll contact me in evening and its been 24hrs he didnt contact me.

I called him today to ask about the status of complaint, he pretended that i wasnt audible and ended the call. I called him back 3 times and he didnt pickup.

I even emailed to POCSO but no response from them either.

Today i tried to register cyber complaint as well myself but to my surprise the website is full of technical glitches and wont work.

This entire scenario has just further strengthened my faith in failure of our country. Im just thinking if such a thing happened with a girl, how difficult would it be to file a complaint without physically going to a police station.

I am keeping an update on this on my twitter https://x.com/MridulPaul10/status/1867287881955553773 

**Tldr:** filed a complaint against Puneet Superstar for CP and child sexual abuse, but no appropriate action from police or any relevant authority. Unable to file cyber complaint due to technical glitches.