SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Narendra Modiji has fallen into a deadly trap laid by "Western Thugs"
DATE: 2017-12-03
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7h7wo5/narendra_modiji_has_fallen_into_a_deadly_trap/

--- POST TEXT ---

Even though aadhaar authentication fails for 30-80% Indians district wise, even though thousands of aadhaar leaks happened, even though hundreds people lost money from bank account due to aadhaar related fraud, even though aadhaar act is more arbitrary than "triple talaq"(as example UIDAI has stopped issuing aadhaar card for "Bio-metrics exception". As crores of duplicate aadhaar cards were made using that category, now people who are really blind, do not have legible fingerprint are facing immense trouble for getting aadhaar card) Even though aadhaar act violates right to life and right to privacy. Even though every day, media is publishing news against "aadhaar scam", Western thugs Bill Gates, Barack Obama, Satya Nadella, Tom Friedman and their Chamchas Wadhwa, etc are praising "aadhaar scams" whole heartedly.

Narendra Modiji is so pumped up with aadhaar success that he is even ignoring advice from Subramanium Swamy, high rank military officers, etc.

In 2019, two things can happen, BJP is wiped out for a long time for shoving aadhaar scam or BJP wins again, in that case aadhaar tyranny will continue unabated and whole country will burn, Modi's Gujarat experience will tell him to kill all violent protesters. But this will backfire, since Modi has already lost support of common people due to demonetization. Even Military is not very happy with Modi, so a coup will be organized and democracy will be stopped for a long time in India. Narendra Modi and his BJP party has already choked democracy, so organizing a coup would be easy.

Dear Narendra Modiji, Time is running out for you, do what is good for humanity. Do not snatch people's right to live and right to privacy in the name of removing corruption just to profiting western thugs.
Read below paragraph from "Noam Chomsky".
Reference: https://www.democracynow.org/2011/5/11/noam_chomsky_the_us_and_its
Well, that’s the oil-rich obedient dictators. What about Egypt, most important country, but not a center of — major center of oil production? Well, in Egypt and Tunisia and other countries of that category, there is a game plan, which is employed routinely, so commonly it takes virtual genius not to perceive it. But when you have a favored dictator — for those of you who might think of going into the diplomatic service, you might as well learn it — when there’s a favored dictator and he’s getting into trouble, support him as long as possible, full support as long as possible. When it becomes impossible to support him — like, say, maybe the army turns against him, business class turns against him — then send him off somewhere, issue ringing declarations about your love of democracy, and then try to restore the old regime, maybe with new names. And that’s done over and over again. It doesn’t always work, but it’s always tried — Somoza, Nicaragua; Shah in Iran; Marcos in the Philippines; Duvalier in Haiti; Chun in South Korea; Mobutu in the Congo; Ceausescu is one of Western favorites in Romania; Suharto in Indonesia. It’s completely routine. And that’s exactly what’s going on in Egypt and Tunisia. OK, we support them right to the end — Mubarak in Egypt, right to the end, keep supporting him. Doesn’t work any longer, send him off to Sharm el-Sheikh, pull out the rhetoric, try to restore the old regime. That’s, in fact, what the conflict is about right now. As Amy said, we don’t know where it’s going to turn now, but that’s what’s going on.