SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Here's what happens if you play along with Social Security scammers for an hour
DATE: 2021-04-23
SCORE: 78
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/mx09ya/heres_what_happens_if_you_play_along_with_social/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday, I received a call a Social Security scammer, but instead of hanging up I decided to play along and see how long I could keep him on the line. Turns out, I managed to keep him tied up for over an hour.

So, it started with a robocall telling me to press 1, and when I did the scammer introduced himself as Chris Wilson with the Social Security Administration. I gave him a fake name in return, and a bunch of other fake information as well. He gave me the usual spiel about a car in Texas was found with drugs and blood, and was rented under my name and social security number. Oh no, I said, there must be some mistake! 

After asking me some more details about the fake car, he agreed that I wasn't a criminal, but that the the DEA was still going to seize my bank account, and I couldn't stop it. But, he had a solution, and he transferred me over to the next scammer, Chris Espinoza (Chris 2) from the DEA. Or maybe Chris 2 worked for the Treasury Department, it was hard to keep track, they mentioned nearly every government entity that existed, at some point or another. Everything they said was gibberish, but there was so much nonsense I can see how an elderly person might be confused.

Chris 2 said I could save my money, but only if I did what he told me to do. After having me check my (fake) bank account balance, I told them I had just over $19,000 in the bank. According to Chris 2, I needed to withdraw all of it, today, because the government was going to take it all tomorrow. When I questioned if this was legal, Chris 2 assured me that he had just talked to the Attorney General and that he said it was OK. The Attorney General of the United States himself I asked? Yes, replied Chris 2. I commented that "This conspiracy goes all the way to the top!" but Chris ignored that.

A key point they mentioned over and over was that I was not allowed to talk to anyone else, and I must stay on the line with them at all times. They even gave me instructions on how to keep them on the line when at the bank. When I asked what I was supposed to do with all the cash I withdrew, they told me I was going to send it to a "digital lock-box" where it would be kept safe. How exactly this was supposed to work was never explained, but I'm guessing they were going to have me ship it overnight to a money mule. If they had just wanted gift cards, I wouldn't have needed to withdraw the cash. Chris 2 also said I would get a No Objection Certificate, which I had never heard of before. Turns out, it's something government agencies use - in India.

The call had gone on longer than I had expected and I had other plans, so an hour and fifteen minutes after the call started, I put him on speaker phone, called him a few names, and asked him how he felt to have wasted an hour of his time. He mumbled something, then hung up to the sound of us laughing at him, so all in all, a fun ending.

A couple things helped me get this far and pass their verification attempts at weeding out fake calls. I had a fake name, age, birthday, and zip code ready to go, since I enjoy messing with scammers. I've noticed that they'll often hang up if you pause at giving that information. I also gave a reason why I couldn't take a picture of my ID, I said I had a flip phone with no camera, because I was pretending to be old and hate technology. Finally, the fake Social Security number had to be in the right range, because the first three numbers indicate the state it was issued in. There's a chart you can look up, and the scammers had it because they correctly told me the state the fake number was from. Also, write down the information you give them, in case they ask you to repeat it later. For example, they asked for my last four SSN digits at the start of the call, and nearly an hour later they wanted to full number.

It was pretty amazing to hear the amount of nonsensical information the scammers told me. They had an explanation for every question I had. Not very good explanations, but nothing I said really threw them off for long. These guys were obviously professionals, and I hate to think how much money they've stolen from vulnerable victims.