SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: People of Reddit I got scammed and I don’t know what to do
DATE: 2023-12-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18ini0w/people_of_reddit_i_got_scammed_and_i_dont_know/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was added to a group chat called Freedom Seekers and I ignored it at first but then they lured me in with posts of profits that they made with cryptocurrency exchange, also known as day trading, and I fell for it and asked if I could join then they sent me a link that led me to a website called bika8, they said they deal with a lot of money and that they are making an exception with letting me in, I told them that I had only 100 dollars to trade and they said that's too small and I should start with at least 500$. after a bit of talking they convinced me to do it and I did. It was all in their goupchat, their website and their server. after they made sure I saw that I could make money, they said that I had to increase my funds or else I couldn't trade with them anymore. I got scared and did as they told me. I got a bit suspicious and I said that I had withdraw some money and they walked me through how to do it, and I withdrew 40$. That's how they convinced me that this was real and that I could trust them. I was so blinded by the hope of being able to use that money to help my family that I didn't think to question them or do any research. they told me I had to increase my deposit to 20k or else they could give me a signal; to trade anymore so I did and I kept trading until my wallet on the website reached 142k, That was when I told them that I wanted to withdraw my money. They then told me that I had to pay their 20% commission, or 22k, so I did and then after 4 days, they said that my account got a security alert and my withdrawal couldn't be sent to me unless I sent them a 10%(14k) security deposit or insurance so my money wouldn't get stolen by anyone. That's when I realized that this was all a scam and after doing some research I found out that the website Bika8 was just recently created and it was already flagged as a potential scam on scamAdvisor.com. when I told them that I knew they were scammers and that all of the money in my account was paper money and not real, they sent me a message through one of their members' accounts and said "India welcomes you to the river of ganges. and then something in their language that I couldn't understand. I'm writing this report because I can't afford this. I was tricked into getting a loan and I don't know how to pay for it.