SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: I am scared, my hands were shaking while I visited a store to buy a vape(almost about to get busted by a crime branch officer)
DATE: 2023-11-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/17yafiv/i_am_scared_my_hands_were_shaking_while_i_visited/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know guys, before you hit all the hard facts on me about how illegal it is to vape and i could potentially go to jail for a year or so and how my decent corporate job would've been in jeopardy if I had got caught, please understand that all I wanted to do was switch to vaping to drop my habit of chain smoking(ice burst - I know it's much more dangerous than regular cigarettes)
 
Here's the series of events that happened
1. I've been a frequent smoker(1 pack a day) and1st week of nov weekend I smoked so much cigarette that I felt very dizzy and puking. That's when I decided enough is enough and will switch to better alternative.

2. Thanks to Google, i found this alternative called vaping. That's when I started going deep into the rabbit hole, researching different types of vaping and how better it is to than smoking.

3. Found couple of Indian websites selling them online where I ordered a disposable one called elfbar(watermelon ice). Surprisingly after 3 days i received one but was a different flavour - kiwi passionfruit guava with 5mg nic.

4. Excited much, there and then itself i decided will never touch cigarettes and entered the world of vaping. Got it charged with my type c charger and started taking long drag.

5. Felt so good for a week, it was just amazing. Soon realised it started smelling a bit wierd near the nozzle and then felt wierd taking it so started doing some research. Found out that the device i received was a fake one! I just broke it and threw it away.I was so down that I wanted to switch back to cigarette but to my shit luck, cigarette started smelling really bad that I wasn't even able to take 2 puffs!.

6. Decided to go n buy it through a physical store so that I can inspect it before and buy to check if genuine. Did some Google maps search and found a couple of stores selling them and finally decided to go to a store.

7. Here's where it gets interesting - i parked my 2 wheeler and got into a store and asked the guy if they have disposable one and a specific brand. He said they didn't have it but he started showing some of his collection on his phone. There were 2 guys in the counter and i confirmed to buy a specific brand and flavour, also asked him if it was original. He said yes and proceeded to go outside and get it from somewhere(maybe a godown?) The other guy was still there, meanwhile I was still looking at the pictures on his phone to check on other flavours.

8. Little did I f*cking know that guy is back with another man and that man started asking me who sent me here and he peaked into the phone and asked me who sent this. I said I don't know and it's not my phone. He grabbed the phone from the table and started asking the store guy where those devices are. I was standing there totally blank for few sec and asked the other store guy who he was. He said he's a man from crime branch. I froze for a sec, asked the guy for a lighter and told him I'll be back later. He gave me one and I made a UPI payment then fled the scene. 

Saw my whole life pass through as soon I heard that man was from crime branch.
F*ck me! I'll never touch vape or a cigarette my whole future life. I'll fucking love with nicotine withdrawal symptoms, already started to have it.

I'm just a simple guy with a 3 year old daughter and wife, don't want to jeopardize their life.

If anyone can help fight to make vaping legal, please do so.
Please pardon my sentence forming, very bad at it and will try to improve.

TLDR: 
Was addicted to smoking, tried buying a wape at physical store, almost got busted by crime branch officer.