SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Came across some type of scam yesterday while delivering a pizza
DATE: 2023-03-31
SCORE: 875
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/127neox/came_across_some_type_of_scam_yesterday_while/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone, so I like to think that I’m pretty well-versed when it comes to current scams and what not but yesterday I had a weird experience and I still don’t know what to make of it. 

So yesterday I went to deliver pizza to a customer. It was a new customer and I have never delivered to the house before and when I knocked on the door the man who answered was elderly and said I didn’t order anything so I said oh OK I’m sorry and went back to my car and called the number on the receipt. A man answered and stated his whole name and it almost sounded like a robot at first, but then I started to hear a man with an Indian accent. It was almost as if he was using a voice changer to get rid of his accent, if that’s even a thing, or maybe it was just the cell connection making it sound strange 

I told him he must have given the wrong address because I knocked on the door and the person said they hadn’t ordered anything and he said no that’s the right address and he repeated it back with the area code and the area code was wrong which also made me suspicious. He said this is a surprise for my friend so I said oh OK because that does happen. Sometimes we will get a delivery and it’s for someone’s birthday and they don’t know that it’s coming. But the thing is this wasn’t paid for so I said that to him, and he says just put him on the phone you’ll understand in a bit. 

So I go knock on the door again and the guy answers and I said hey so-and-so is on the phone they said that this is a surprise for you and he says oh yeah I know who that is so at this point he is on speaker phone and he says hey Paul it’s me, I remembered the other day you said you had been craving a pizza so I wanted to surprise you and send you one. And he was very thankful but then the dude drops the bomb and says hey Paul, but do you think you’d be able to pay for this? And the guy says what? No I don’t think I’m going to be able to do that. So then the guy on the phone says to me is there a way to pay online? I said you could call the restaurant and pay with a credit card but I can’t handover the pizza yet. He says OK he will and tells Paul he’s gonna call him in a bit on this new number. 

I get back to the car and call my boss and tell him what’s going on and he says he hasn’t received a call yet to stay there, he calls me back and says he called him twice and he’s not answering Don’t give him the pizza. When I got back to the restaurant, he says he eventually got the guy on the phone and he said he was gonna call back with a credit card in 10 minutes and that’s when he said no I’m having my driver come back.

I went back to the guys door again at the end and explained what was happening and asked him how well he knew this guy and he said not that well and I said have you met him in person and he says no we’ve only spoken over the phone about business deals and stuff, and I told him to be careful because this is most likely a scam, and not to give him any personal information or talk to him and he says you know what you’re probably right 

Have any of you guys come across anything similar to this? What I’m trying to figure out is what the endgame here would be. Only thing I can think of is it similar to the fake checks scam, this guy said they talked about business dealings so I was thinking he’s trying to get friendly with him over the phone. Send some food to seem nice and make it look like he’s an actual person, and then he says, let me front you 10,000 to get an investment going and then he ends up sending 20,000 tells Paul just to cash it and send the other 10 back and then the whole check bounces and he’s on the hook for all of it, basically a larger version of the fake check scam

Any feedback would be very much appreciated as this whole encounter was really strange and has my wheels turning in my head wondering what it was