SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Wake up babe, a new scam just dropped
DATE: 2024-03-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1bfyeru/wake_up_babe_a_new_scam_just_dropped/

--- POST TEXT ---

There's a saying in Delhi - "Sayani Kutiya Do baar Chu*ti hai" which translates to "Oversmart bitch gets fucked twice". Well I always knew it but understood it today. So here's what happened, I was travelling from Delhi to Bangalore today. Took a Spicejet flight which was supposed to take off at 9 and land at 11:50PM. But spicejet being spicejet, delayed the flight to 10:55 and eventually took off at 11:30. Yupp. Almost the time we were supposed to land. I landed at around 2, took my baggage and came out the airport to take a cab. Now in Delhi when you get out of the airport there are private taxis as well who will quote somewhere around what ola uber shows in the app but you can negotiate and travel for a little less. I have travelled with them multiple times. So when I came out of Bangalore airport I checked ola/uber and they showed around 850 for Indiranagar. I was thinking of taking one when one guy asked me "Sir where do you want to go?" I said "Indiranagar" and he said "700", I thought it would be same as delhi, a private taxi and I'd save around 150. Well that was me being oversmart. Now let's move to how I got fu*kes twice. He told me that his car is parked in the parking lot and let's walk till there. He took my luggage and started walking. I followed him. He took me to the front of Taj hotel and told me that his friend is coming with the car. He called the other guy and he came with the car. He loaded my luggage in the trunk and sat along with the driver in the front seat and I sat in the back. I was familiar of the path the KIA bus and other Cabs take so I immediately recognised they took some other path. So I was alarmed a bit. I msged my friend that this looks a bit shady and shared my live location with him on WhatsApp. They stopped at a chai point after some time and asked me if I would like some, I said no you guys go ahead. They drank some tea. I got out of the car and read the number plate and sent it to the friend just in case shit happens. Now he started driving from some shady roads with no lights and what looked like jungle. I thought I am going to get robbed today or worse dead. I kept my one hand at door lock and other ready to throw a punch just in case they stop there in between. But nothing happened fortunately and they eventually joined the highway at 500m after toll gate so all of that shady path was to avoid paying toll. I took a sigh of relief. I thought I misunderstood them and they were just trying to save money. Now after 10 odd minutes driving on the highway, the guy who was in front passenger seat, the one who talked to me on airport asked me to share an OTP for some wti cabs. I did it. The msg said I was registered on wti. Then after some time they stopped it somewhere and showed me some weird ass calculation that looked like a wti cab page and told me that he has to get off there and I have to pay him a total of 2400 rupees out of which 700 is night assistance which he provided and to give him 700 right there and then. I opened the gate of the car and kept it open and argued with him that he told me 700 and nothing about this extra thing. He started shouting and told me that I'm lying and didn't hear it correctly etc etc and told me to close the door. I called my friend immediately fearing for my safety and he told me to talk to them clearly that you don't have that much money. The front guy told me that if I will not pay he will turn the car around and drop me back to airport and this will double the money. I said go ahead, I will talk to.your manager there. Then he started shouting again and showed me some other page that showed 1200 rs and told me to pay atleast that. Since I was still far from home and it was around 3ish in the morning, my friend asked me to not escalate things and pay whatever he wants and get home safely. I told him the best I can do is 1000 he told me okay and I paid him that. Then he called someone else and asked me to move to another car as they won't be going to Indiranagar. I asked him that I don't have to pay anymore right? He said no. Then in a minute another car came and he transferred me to that car. When I sat into this second car he told me that I will have to pay just 200 more to the new driver. At this point I was like fu*k it, let's get out of this situation safety and told him okay. The driver of the first car now sat in the front passenger seat and we started it. He got out of the car somewhere in the middle. When we reached home this other guy showed me some app again that showed 379. I paid him that. So all in all to save 150 I paid almost 1379-850 = 529 extra. Lesson learned. Beware of the scam people. Always take ola/uber/blusmart or other app based cabs.

Car 1: KA 50 A 2585 Gray Etios
Car 2: KA 01 AG 3125