SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Fraud seller advice from a Third Party Seller on Amazon and What is really going on
DATE: 2017-03-30
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/629psy/fraud_seller_advice_from_a_third_party_seller_on/

--- POST TEXT ---

As many of you guys have noticed there has been a huge rise in fraud sellers and sellers listing stuff for very cheep. Some of this stuff has even made the newspapers. 

I am an amazon shopper myself, but also a third party seller from California. I can shed some light on what is going on and how you can protect yourself. In the past several months Amazon has started vetting Foreign sellers. All they needed before was an email address and bank account and would use certain services to get back on Amazon if their accounts every got suspended. Now they require business info, proof of address, copy of government ID and the whole 9 yards. 

These fraud sellers are not necessarily getting paid out as you have to wait up to 30 days to receive your first payment to make sure you are legit. These fraud sellers are also not all coming from China, but India and middle east. They are using certain servers that show they are in the USA. You may of experienced this in some way where you bought an item from a US seller only for the tracking number to show it is from China. Amazon requires third party sellers to prove a counterfeit item by placing what is called a, "test buy". So many of us have placed test buys against our own product only for it to never show up. Several days later we were getting bogus phone calls claiming to be Amazon to verify our information. 

Bottom line is... Amazon is officially under attack by some sort of cyber organize crime group or country. Some sellers believe it can be an inside job, as amazon outsources all of its customer service. What these scam sellers are doing is Information farming. As a seller when you buy something we get your email, name, and address. This is standard for all platforms, ebay, etsy, and personal websites. Sellers like me have no need to use this information other than ship you the product you bought. Now on some occasions we can also see your phone number. These would be large orders that shipping carriers like Fedex and UPS would require. Now your credit card and bank information is 100% safe with Amazon and we can not see that in anyway! Also Amazon will always take care of you and refund your money! The info that is given out though is enough for a fraud seller to start the processes of inquiring your credit information. A lot of times they will call or email and claim they are from Amazon and they need to verify your credit card, and use the recent order info and address to falsely prove they are Amazon. Since you probably order an item at a killer price! Do not click on any links! If there is a credit issue you will get a pop up or info through the actual website when you sign in. 

Amazon till recently has been very trusted so a lot of elderly people or people not aware of these scams may fall for it very easily. If your grandma or mom shops on Amazon a lot and is not internet savvy, they may fall victim. Just be aware of these fake phone calls and emails and also double check everything. If it seems too good to be true it probably is. Also please share this with family members that maybe vulnerable to internet scams. 

Why Amazon has chosen not to clean this up yet is beyond all of us! A lot of rumors going around, but nothing is for sure. They might be allowing it to close in on the group and bring criminal charges. Who knows. Don't give up on Amazon and continue to shop here, just be a little bit more careful while all of this stuff is going on. I personally believe they are working hard to clean it up, it may just take some time.