SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Mobile Mechanic Craiglist Scam (AZ, Phoenix) "VMP Mobile Repair, Samuel, Jason Orik, stealing parts"
DATE: 2018-02-07
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/7vslnm/mobile_mechanic_craiglist_scam_az_phoenix_vmp/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: Mobile mechanic "Samuel" shows up, takes $200 deposit, comes back and does 1/2 day's worth of work &amp; takes a part for "cleaning," paid another $450, leaves a car ramp &amp; jacket behind, then never returns. He "got in a car accident &amp; got a concussion." Then the next time he was supposed to come "the concussion got worse and he was in a medically induced coma." His boss "Jason Orik" from "VMP Mobile Repair" promises to either send out a different mechanic to finish the job or offer a refund, but then also eventually disappeared. (These names are not resulting in any google hits, I believe they're fake). Two burner phones. Samuel's garage is at "32nd &amp; Indian School." Car out of commission for weeks longer than should have been. Eventually had to replace the whole engine due to Samuel's damage. I know exactly what "Samuel" looks like.... basically Roy from The Office. Have an open case with Pinal County Sheriff. Let's talk if you experienced something similar. I have phone numbers as well. 

FULL STORY:
On 1/1/2018 my brother-in-law ("BIL") was attempting to fix my timing belt on my 2004 Volvo S40 in his home garage in San Tan Valley. Unfortunately a bolt had fuzed, so he was unable to fully open my car and thought calling a Mobile Mechanic may help. Since it was New Years, it was very hard to find a mechanic and I needed to drive my car back to California (where I currently live) that night. My BIL found about 7 different postings, called them all, and this was the only one that would come out on the holiday.

He called a dispatch and "Jason" sent out his mechanic, "Samuel." The company was called VMP Mobile Automative Service and Repair. I would guess Samuel was about 30, overweight, wearing a red mechanic shirt, driving a black car, clean cut, blonde hair, blue eyes. Honestly, looked a lot like Roy (David Denman) from The Office.

Samuel agreed with my BIL that it was impossible to open the bolt, but that he could access the timing belt an alternate way if he brought his ramps. There was no way to fix my car before I needed to drive to California, so I took my mom's car and promised her mine in a just a few days. Samuel had me sign a bright green receipt 8.5x11 photocopied image with a company logo on it and wanted a $200 deposit, but needed it in cash. I tried to pay him with credit or Venmo (which he mentioned that his hairstylist wife accepts Venmo, but he doesn't). He said he'd spare me the tax, but I needed to pay cash, so we found the cash. He also was willing to offer me a 1,500 mile warranty, but kept saying "I can't do more than that because legally...." He frequently used the word "legally."

I was annoyed with Samuel when I first met him. First, I asked for a quote and he sort of waved his hand over the car and said "it could be as high as $2,200," and I was like "nope, dealer said $700. Let's talk specifics." After getting into the details more he landed on approx $600 and told me there was no way the dealer would have ACTUALLY charged my $700, that the dealer would have discovered the bolt problem and had to have charged me more. I also expressed my frustration because I just spent $900 repairing the Struts at a legit mechanic, and Samuel got really mad saying I was totally ripped off and he would have done it for half that. He even pulled up some ebay listing for struts with a low price on his smartphone (but I suspect that phone was different than the burner phone he later texted me from). I very much trusted the mechanic who did the $900 repair and called around for other price quotes and found comparable rates at other mechanics. So, I pulled my receipt out of my purse and asked him to show me WHERE I was overcharged and he couldn't quite nail it. Basically, I felt like he was a mansplainer mechanic type, but with my BIL (who's rather skilled with cars) there, I knew my brother-in-law wouldn't let shotty work happen. My BIL could have done all of this if that bolt hadn't fuzed. 

On the morning of January 4, Samuel came back and spent a half day disassembling my engine. He said the oil leak which damaged the timing belt came from the cam seals (which I expected was one of two places where the leak came from), and while he was at it, the camshafts looked very dirty. My BIL agreed. Samuel would take the camshaft pieces to his shop (West Valley, I know he said 32nd St or Ave and Indian School as the crossroads) for cleaning AND/OR he also found newer parts from a used car which he could sub in instead as well if the cleaning wasn't adequate. For a small $50 up-charge, I could get the camshafts all cleaned up while I was at it. He said he could also increase the warranty up to 10,000 miles and give me a transferable warranty for someone in California because he'd be more comfortable with the engine repair following the camshaft work. I agreed. He took an additional $450 cash, bringing the total paid to him to $650 and left his car ramps and his jacket. 

After Jan 4, things started getting fishy. First, the new part was held up in some sort of shipping delay, so he needed to bump his repair date from 1/8/18 to 1/12/18. Then on 1/12/18, he was driving to Ken's house and apparently got in a car accident and was taken to the hospital for a concussion. He was okay, but doctors told him to wait 48 before doing the repair, so we rescheduled for 1/16/18. On 1/16/18, there was another problem... Samuel had ignored doctors orders, worked elsewhere on 1/15/18, went to sleep and didn't wake up. His wife took him to hospital, they found blood on his brain and he was in a medically induced coma. His dispatch boss, Jason, said he could either send a courrier to return the $650 &amp; old parts or we could reschedule with a different mechanic on 1/19/18 and Jason would take $200 off for our trouble. 

I got on the phone with Jason. This was the "dispatch" number but his voicemail was the phone's pre-recording. I explained that I was beginning to feel really uncomfortable with everything and needed more details that this was a legit business. He said he was a "DBA" and they hire out contractors using 1099. They dispatch to AAA calls, so they don't have a website or online presence. I asked if I reached out to AAA would they be able to verify his business and he said it all depended on the database that person would be looking at when I called AAA. He said that Arizona had different laws than California which was why his business didn't need to report to the BBB. I asked if he was in some mechanic directory that my mechanic friends could look him up in and he again said it would really all depend. He said he had an Employee Identification Number (EIN), but didn't know it off the top of his head. He said his wife handled all these legal details, but that she could call me. He apologized profusely saying how bad the optics must look, but that he was driving over to Samuel's repair shop right then to pick up my camshaft parts. I agreed to have him send out another mechanic on Friday, but I wanted to $200 refund in ADVANCE to prove that he was real. He said he'd get back to me first thing in the morning. He kept using the work "legally" the same way Samuel did and referencing his wife with a similar frequency as well. He said his full name was Jason Orik (sp?) and that VMP Mobile Repair had been in The Valley since 1987. He sounded American and articulate. In hindsight, I'm pretty sure he sounded the same as Samuel.

I was 50/50 on if this was a scam, so I agreed to have him try to resolve this, but I also began mobilizing to take my car to a different mechanic. I knew if it was a scam, I'd be out the money either way, but I still wanted to have faith that he would show up and finish the job. It may not be a scam and I could get the car on the road, or it may be and I would start activating something else. 

Early the next morning (1/17/18) Jason texted me acting as though he was beginning the refund process, but slowly started ghosting through-out the day. He texted that he was in the field, but would call me that evening. While at the gym, I missed a call from an unknown 623 number, but when I tried to call that number back, I realized it had an extra digit.... like a calling card or something, so my call didn't go through. I texted Jason to see if that missed call was from him. He never responded again. My BIL, myself and my REAL mechanic all attempted to contact Jason over the next few days but we never got through to him again. The parts Samuel stole (camshafts) are IMPOSSIBLE to find elsewhere. Volvo has it on back-order with no new release coming for months. My real mechanic even just wanted to get the "bad pieces" back from Samuel because of how desperate we were to find these obscure pieces, but to no avail. I now have to completely replace the ENTIRE engine. All in all, this repair which should have cost $700 from the dealer is costing me about $3,500. My BIL has spent 3 days off work in the past week trying to find the part in Phoenix or Tucson junk yards, also to no avail. I've been calling Volvo dealers across California because the REAL mechanic can't find the part anywhere in Arizona. It should have taken about half a day to fix the timing belt and it's now looking to be completed on 1/28 at earliest. (28 days later)

My BIL and I both have alerts set up with Craigslist &amp; Facebook Marketplace to try to find similar posts to the one my BIL stumbled upon on. The original post has been removed. I'm devastated that from 1/4-1/17, Jason/Samuel continued to act as though they were working to fix my car after Samuel left with the $650 and parts. That is arguably the most frustrating part of this whole thing. Being without my car in LA has been extremely challenging. I don't understand why he (they) would toy with me and my BIL for 2 more weeks after already taking my money and stealing my engine part. 

I believe this is an organized operation and that the amount of money/parts taken would have been much higher if my BIL &amp; I hadn't been so vigilant in watching him work and in questioning his recommendations. I absolutely believe he'll strike again. 

Here's some news articles I've found of similar scams:
Phoenix Area in 2012: 
https://www.abc15.com/news/national/mobile-mechanic-scammers-target-drivers1347288072905
2 Cases in Virginia:
http://wjla.com/news/local/7-on-your-side-beware-of-craigslist-car-repair-scammers-108471
http://wjla.com/features/7-on-your-side/beware-springtime-car-mechanic-scams

I have every reason to believe that this guy will do more of this in the greater Phoenix area. Perhaps also as a "locksmith," or home-repair "handyman." 

Anyone else out there with anything similar?