SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: How long do you think I can get in for this?
DATE: 2023-11-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/17sdeiz/how_long_do_you_think_i_can_get_in_for_this/

--- POST TEXT ---

I live in a tier-1 city and my mom is telling me to leave the house which I am refraining from and she might call the police and hv me arrested for this.

I am 19 and my mom (Working in armed forces as a civilian ) has been very interruptive and breaching my privacy. I told my mom to stop it bt she gets argumentative and says it's her right. I told her no several times bt she doesn't listen.

Our conservations at times get heated to the extent that she tells me to leave the house. And I deny it. 

I don't mind leaving on my own bt the thing is I know she is using this manipulative strategy and If I leave she will call my relatives , file a missing report and do everything to make me look I am the bad apple here.
(My Uncle has contacts with the commissioner )

If she calls the cops and hv me arrested directly instead it will be official that she doesn't wants me ever and she won't be able to back out from it

*A little bit about me:

 I hv been a meritorious student in my school life , loves to write insightful posts on reddit (I do it from a different account ) , hv been learning data analytics and got financial aid from companies like Google and IBM for learning the same (My financial aid applications are very eye catching tbh ).
I also love to read books too. I even help in the house whenever I get time and do dusting , sweeping etc doing dishes etc.

I am not being boastful bt just telling you all this so you understand I am a very civilized guy and hv a clean record . I know the difference between right and wrong , and hv never taken any law in my hands. 

*Why I am willing to be arrested ?

Bcz my mom acts like a bully , a well read bully and always taunts and criticizes me. And that's pure for her fun , I can feel it. Look you know when your parents are being traditional parents and restricting you bcz they think it's immoral or against the culture bt she is not like that . 

She likes to mess around my head purposefully like a toxic office Boss. I hv genuine mental health problems like High Sensitivity since birth ( I am coping from it and hv improved ) and sleep paralysis and her behaviour is not helping.

So I really don't care what will happen to me. I know the dark realities of being in a prison from the books and also I don't mind starving to death being a homeless I just want to get away from her .

But anyways I am just here to ask you how long do you think I will be in Jail for not leaving my parents house when they told me to?

Also , how can I ask judge to allow me to accompany books with me to read whenever I get time ? 

I had some money in my personal bank account which my parents had saved for me and yes I used some of it when I turned 18 and the custody of my account had transferred to me entirely , can I be penalized for that?