SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Bank of America scam
DATE: 2024-11-13
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gpxhz3/bank_of_america_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

So today I receive a call and on the caller ID it shows it's from Bank of America. I picked up it's a guy with a really heavy Indian accent, (no disrespect just stating the fact) he asked for my name as a routine question, then tells me he's from the fraud department and he's calling because a charge on my credit card over $7,000. Now here is the sad and hilarious thing which I know this is a scam. After my nasty divorce I don't own any credit cards. And he is still pushing to get my information. I've decided to hang out and he calls right back still shows Bank of America on caller ID. 
I was just going to ignore it but thinking of it I don't want anybody else to fall into victim of the scam, or wherever their intention is. So I decided to call the back of my debit card to reach the fraud department of Bank of America. And from here things gets interesting.
I called the back of my card as routine I went through all the security questions until I reached a person in the fraud department. She verify who I am with security questions and ask me the reason why I was calling, so explain to her the story in regards to somebody call me with the caller IDs from Bank of America and telling me they're from the fraud department and calling me because of a credit card charge that I have on my credit card which I don't own. So after the whole story I give them the number which shows Bank America from caller ID, then she tells me this is a legitimate Bank of America phone number which is for vehicle lending department. I was surprised to hear that maybe somehow they made a mistake and call me from the number but I don't have a vehicle loan with Bank of America either. I explained to her that the only reason I'm calling is because I don't want anybody else to fall into victim of this scam or identity theft or whatever you call it but it turns out to be a real legitimate Bank of America number. Somehow she tells me that I should talk to the vehicle lending department to see if there was any information that was leaked for my security reasons so I waited and got transferred. After the phone got picked up I went through the same story explaining the reason why I'm calling, my concerns in regards to a number with Bank of America be used by somebody else claiming from the fraud department for a credit card charge. So after the whole storytelling I just want whoever I spoke to to be aware of what is going on, which is someone is using a legitimate Bank of America number which is from the vehicle lending department as the fraud department about credit card charges and whatever information they're trying to get. So basically after all this waiting and calling and explaining and trying to make aware of the situation so other people doesn't fall into victim of whatever they're trying to pull here, they told me that unfortunately there's nothing they can do not even to make a note of this, basically I have wasted around 30 minutes of my time trying to do the right thing and there's nothing they can do. So at the end I did the correct thing same as when I received a scam call... I hang up... And I wonder why people are feeling less satisfied with the financial institutes...