SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Dropper needs some directions, Completely lost but still motivated.
DATE: 2023-10-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/176rkgd/dropper_needs_some_directions_completely_lost_but/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I'm just a completely lost character who has no idea what's going to happen. 

To start off with I must say I was a decent student, not a topper or anything but got good enough marks, 92 in 10th and 95 in 12th. During my 12th got 78 percentile in JEE without any real preparation. After that took a drop year and this is when my troubles start. I didn't get into any coaching institutes which retrospectively I should have. Just for some support. 

I did not almost study anything after about 3 months of prep, and things began to drift away. When the exams came up, my father dropped me at the centre, but i didn't even go into the test room, I scaled the walls from behind since I was afraid my father would be there out front and roamed around as far as my feet could take me. 

When the results arrived I fabricated my marksheet to look like I flunked it.

Then I got into DU, specifically DDU. My course was B.Sc. (Maths, Physics, and Computer). This was during Covid, so I didn't have to leave. I did not even try to make friends with my online classmates. I'm guessing this was a result of my year in isolation. I started off well, I pretty much knew everything what was being taught infact was way ahead when it came to the first sem syllabus. I did well and all. 

Then some sh*t happened. Starting with my dog dying, the entire family was sad. My father got really sick in covid and my grandpa died. I had to work some hours at my father's business during all of this. I think I got depressed at the time too. 

Naturally, I stopped attending classes and slowly and steadily cut off all contact. I made myself believe that I didn't need any of it and could learn and do everything all on my own, land a decent Job and sh*t. I took my own road and focused more on computers and coding. But I Completely lack follow through so any thing I began to learn, I didn't finish it. 

Then after a year and a half colleges began to open, and I had to leave as well. By this time I had pretty much dropped out. So I headed to Delhi, and stayed there in a PG doing nothing but roaming the streets, staying locked in a room, learning some maths and Computer, reading books. This was how my year went and the time for completion of my course arrived. 

During all this time I was fabricating my progress to my folks. Lying with every single breath. They aren't stupid or anything, they just have too much trust in me. 

And now arrived at home as "graduate", I knew I couldn't stay here and needed time to fix myself. So I made another cock and bull story of getting into a college and having done well in CUET. I packed my bags and moved once again to Delhi, where I am right now "pursuing MCA" lmao. 

Even though I've spent every second of the past 4 years lying and cheating and have obviously no friends or anyone to talk to, I feel I am quite stable mentally. What my problems are, is that I lack moral fibre, disgusting character, have squished my personality into a patty that has now turned bad and is stinking, lack follow through, have no aim or nothing to care about. I even lack empathy and have not cried in like 7 years. 

My qualifications: 12th pass, with one semester of B.Sc. under my belt (formidable, right?). I am a quick learner and am hyper focused when I I'm really motivated.

What should I do? Don't have any money too. Coming clean is out of the question for me so please don't suggest that.

Please share this to anyone you think can help me, or lemme know if you have a gig for me cause I not just need money but structure in life too.