SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Indian Brothers Please Help
DATE: 2016-05-27
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/4laqkr/indian_brothers_please_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

Claim ID : 1727706 PaisaPay ID : 41925210409 So I ordered a Handset OnePlus One but seller sent me a Mouse. I call ebay and they raised a claim for me next they told me to upload pictures for it I do so they told me to reship the item to the Seller. I reship the item on sellers address also provide ebay the tracking id. Next ebay called the seller and ask for solution seller told ebay that he giving a replacement for the product but I want my money back as I purchased the same item from another Vendor.
on 24/5/2016 ebay closed my claim with this Remarks: we have checked the details of your claim and have noticed that the claim filed by you is excluded from eligible transactions for filing a claim under eBay guarantee. Therefore, the claim filed by you falls under non-eligibility criteria. As a result, we have closed your claim and your refund request has been rejected. For more information on the non-eligibility criteria to file a claim, kindly check the below mentioned link:http: pages.ebay.in/help/ebay-guarantee.html#noneligible In this case, my best advice to you is to contact your Seller and resolve the matter amicably. Your understanding and co-operation is highly appreciated in this matter.
I called ebay again they told me to wait 48 hours and their agent will call me back.48 hours passed I called ebay they told me same thing over and over to wait 48 hours again I ask them if they can transfer the call to their supervisor,Now here what their supervisor told me. Supervisor-I checked your claim details and I see your claim has been closed and we cannot help any further in this claim. Me- But I didn't get my money back. Supervisor- you can call the seller about this but ebay cannot help in this situation. Me- I bought throught ebay not from any individual seller ebay should protect my money. Supervisor-you have to call seller about the refund if he told us to give refund then we can give you refund only.
I called the seller here's the conversation between him and me, Me-Hello I want my refund for this order and the paisapay id is 41925210409 Seller-Ok hold on let me check Me-Sure take your time Seller(after 8min of hold)-You just got scammed**dont call me back.(Ends the Call*) I trying to recall the seller again but number was busy all the time. So what should I do in this situation Please help Should I go to Police or Consumer Court/Cyber Crime section about this.