SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: ‘BJP-linked’ Goa councillor’s son arrested for ‘sexually assaulting, filming minors’. 3 FIRs so far
AUTHOR: Samridhi Tewari
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/bjp-linked-goa-councillors-son-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-filming-minors-3-firs-so-far/2889583/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Serious allegations have surfaced against Soham Naik, the 20-year-old son of “BJP-affiliated” councillor Sushant Naik from Goa’s Curchorem Cacora ward: sexual assault on minors, filming the assault, sharing it with friends, and subsequently threatening survivors to ensure their silence.
On Thursday, Goa Police confirmed three FIRs against Soham Naik, a Cacora resident who was arrested Sunday. So far, two girls have formally complained against Soham and the police are waiting for more survivors to come forward.
Superintendent of Police (South Goa) Santosh Dessai told ThePrint, “A few days ago, a story was reported in the Marathi press, stating that a councillor’s son was involved in a sex scandal. We investigated further and reached Soham; however, we did not have evidence. The media then provided us with a video. It was placed on record. An FIR under the IT Act and POCSO was registered at Curchorem police station, and Soham was arrested.”
Show Full Article
Local activists and leaders in Goa, however, claimed that the police acted only after protests Sunday.
Goa Pradesh Congress Committee President Amit Patkar said a mob had assembled outside the police station Sunday and that “ensured” action as well as a case against Soham Naik. “Why has no woman or child’s commission intervened in the matter?” he asked.
“The locals told us there are over 30 young girls who have been exploited by Soham. Police were forced to file an FIR. If there were no protests, there would have been no FIRs, and no such arrests,” Patkar added.
He said that only two complainants had since gone on record with the police. “We will ensure more victims come forward, without fear of the consequences. We don’t want the case to go under the carpet,” he emphasised.
Social activist Tara Kerkar, who was present at Sunday’s protest, said that locals alleged Soham Naik not only took photos and videos of girls but also shared them and blackmailed the survivors with them.
Kerkar, who managed to meet the complainants, said, “Families are scared because this has been going on for quite some time, and nobody could have spoken against Soham. This matter is serious, and needs to be dealt with seriously.”
Goa BJP spokesperson and MLA Vasco De Gama Krishna (Daji) Salkar told ThePrint, “The accused should be punished. The police are dealing with the matter legally. All aspects are being looked into. These are dirty acts, and Soham should be punished. We are hopeful of strong action, and he has no support.”
Also Read:
BJP moves to rein in ‘vigilante’ councillors & an unlikely alliance forces LDF govt on a backfoot
Recorded photo & video, threatened minors
According to sources in the Goa Police, the second FIR registered at Curchorem police station included Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita sections 374 (assaulting a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 75 (physical contact, demand for sexual favours, showing pornography, etc.), 318 (cheating, fraud, and inducing delivery of property), 64(2) (punishment for rape of minors under 16), Goa Children’s Act, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and Sec 67-B of the Information Technology Act.
One police source said the FIR was registered based on the complaint of a minor, a Curchorem resident. She stated in her complaint that between 1 January 2023 and 30 January 2023 in TNK in Khadiwada, Curchorem, Soham developed a friendly relationship with her “under the pretext of marriage and enticed her to different locations on two separate occasions”.
Citing the complaint, the source said that the accused took the girl to an “isolated place, committed forceful sexual intercourse with her—against her will and consent—and video-graphed the incident on his mobile phone, transmitting it to his friend circle”.
The source also said that Soham first contacted the complainant via Instagram. “He sent her an obscene photograph of his private part and threatened to expose and circulate his present relationship with her elder sister publicly. The accused further pressured her to meet him personally and share contact details of other girls for exploitation,” police said.
Police sources said there were multiple videos and victims. The Marathi media report also claimed that there is more than one victim.
“It appears the cases are over three years old. Crime Branch is ascertaining the number of videos that have come forward. More interrogations will be conducted,” the source said.
Goa DGP Alok Kumar told the media Thursday, “Investigation is going on. I would like to assure you that the Goa Police is conducting a prompt and fair investigation. Nobody should have any doubts in their mind. The case has been handed over to the Crime Branch due to a few factors.”
“It is a sensitive matter, and it will need an in-depth investigation. Confidentiality of victims is essential in such matters. More people will likely come to the local police stations,” he added.
Opposition reactions
Hitting out at the BJP, AAP’s chief
Arvind Kejriwal
, taking to X, said, “What kind of demons are lurking in the BJP?”
He said, “In Goa, an extremely repulsive case has come to light where the son of a BJP councillor has been sexually exploiting 30 minor girls for three years, filming them, and blackmailing them. The BJP has turned people’s lives in Goa into hell. Everyone is living under the shadow of fear. Protecting such monsters is fatal to society. The guilty must receive the harshest possible punishment, and the victims must get justice. No demon should even think of doing this again.”
The
Congress
, in a post on X, said, “BJP councillor Sushant Naik’s son, Soham Naik (20), has been arrested in Goa for raping minor girls. He exploited more than 25 minor girls, recorded the acts, blackmailed them, and circulated the videos.”
“Shocking and shameful! But what can be expected from the BJP, which has a long list of such people directly linked to it?” it added.
The BJP has, however, distanced itself from Sushant Naik, saying that he is not a member of the party. Party leader and former Rajya Sabha member Vinay Tendulkar told ThePrint, “He [Sushant Naik] was a BJP member 10 years ago. We checked the party records and found he was not a member at present. BJP does not have any association with Naik. We condemn the shameful act, and we will ensure the victims get justice.”
This is an updated version of the report.
(Edited by Madhurita Goswami)
Also Read:
‘Why not BJP?’: Meet Mumtaz Thaha, the party’s first Muslim woman councillor in Kerala