Future Travel Services, Future Education services A unit of future services India softcom private limited It is a fraud company run by Fraud owners by the name Aman Kumar (Aman Kumar Harjai) and Pawan Kumar (Pawan Kumar Harjai) They have hired people and not paid any consultant, employees and not even airtel and reliance phone bills. These uneducated people deal in career counseling whereas they have no qualification in any of the fields. Their entire family is a fraud Pawan already a divorcee and Aman trying hard to fool someone to marry him are running this business only to turn their black money to white. The details of the company are as below: www.futureservicesindia.com www.futuretravelservices.biz www.futureeducationservices.biz [protected]@futureservicesindia.com [protected]@futureservicesindia.com [protected]@futureservicesindia.com [protected]@futureservicesindia.com Given below is an article from TOI: new delhi: a rajindra place-based computer professional was arrested on wednesday for duping several banks and forex dealers of over rs 1 crore. aman kumar was arrested by the economic offences wing of the crime branch from his east patel nagar house along with rs 1.3 lakh cash. two cars, a lancer and a santro, were seized from him. his first floor flat, estimated to be worth rs 31 lakh, has also been attached for recovery of the misappropriated funds. kumar, who claimed to be the head of a firm dealing in computer hardware which had its office in rajindra place, allegedly sought foreign exchange from forex dealers by furnishing fake travel plans and income proof. ‘‘once the forex dealers released the payments, he and his accomplices used to sell it in the open market for a consideration,’’ dcp eow, dinesh bhatt, said on thursday. bhatt said kumar used to apply for forex in the name of his brother, parents, employees and friends. the accused owed rs 15 lakh and rs 27 lakh to travel planners pvt ltd and tt forex ltd respectively. the fraud came to light during the investigation of a complaint against kumar lodged by the american express bank for recovery over rs 14 lakh.‘‘we found that the pan number provided to the bank was fictitious,’’ said bhatt. the police said kumar allegedly induced the bank to issue 11 corporate cards on the basis of forged documents. the cards were used for purchasing gold ornaments. ‘‘we have recovered 5.9 kg gold which the accused had purchased with credit cards and mortgaged to collect cash,’’ said bhatt. bhatt said the gang’s modus operandi was initially to build a good relation with a financial institution and then borrow huge amounts.the accused induced the bank by furnishing false assurances, and fake documents, like pan number, certificate of incorporation purportedly issued by registrar of companies, income-tax returns, balance sheets, the police said. the police said the gang, which included kumar’s brother pawan kumar, father o p harjai and mother savitri, also misused atm cards of several banks. kumar’s family members were still untraced, bhatt said. the police said kumar in connivance with the postal staff and two other accomplices, ajay gupta and achal gupta, used to intercept the atm pin number issued by banks and use it to withdraw huge sums.during interrogation the police found kumar also misused charge slips prepared on the basis of purchases made by genuine credit card holders. bhatt said several other complaints against the accused were being investigated by the local police in vasant vihar, desh bandhu gupta, cp and prasad nagar. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (2)