SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Petrol Scam - At Moral Roadblock - What should I do?
DATE: 2025-01-24
SCORE: 56
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1i8j03v/petrol_scam_at_moral_roadblock_what_should_i_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had a problem with an Indian Oil bunk. I asked them to fill petrol for Rs. 2000. The attended listened it clearly and filled the petrol meanwhile another guy came asking about my car. 

He stopped at 500 when I saw it. I was like, I asked Rs. 2000. This guy, who was talking to me, told sorry to me and asked him to refill for another 1500 and distracted me. He told 500 waa filled first and another 1500 was filled and asked me to pay 2000. I didn't think and I paid 2000. In reality, second 1500 was filled without resetting first 500. This I found later. 

When I left the pump, I suspected that he didn't reset to 0 as my car was reporting only 13 point something ltrs have been refuelled. I got scammed for Rs. 500. I confirmed it as seeing car fuel log. 

I was super angry at my family at that time and these things made me nuts. I went on full force and raised complaint till ministry with all substantial evidence and also mentioned to check their pump log by giving time and everything. Owner's daughter called me and told she would take action on those employees. Few days later, her son called and gave refund. Indian Oil managers followed up very properly and got me the refund. Even I got a letter from their headoffice thanking me for reporting and summarized actions. Owner called me and almost cried that I am raising complaints for just 500 where she has invested crores and I am being not good for raising issues for Rs. 500. I was scared about her crying. What if she does something mentioning my complaint was the reason? That was the fear. Indian Oil almost cancelled their license and somehow these guys got them back. 

I got scared and I spoke with Indian oil manager and he told the actions are being taken. And it is okay and he told me "don't bother. Let them cry for their mistakes".

All was good until I saw the google reviews again. They are doing the same scam from last week to many people and looks like nobody is raising the voice. Indian Oil Phone customer care sucks. But if I take complaint via ministry, they are taking actions ASAP. I am pretty sure this is dealer and not Company bunk. And from the way, retail manager spoke, i think IOC cared about their reputation.

What should I do? Call Indian Oil grievance officer and ask why this is happening again? Or should I keep my mouth shut? And also, these bunk guys get access to personal number of people who gave complaints against them. I can go ahead and ruin everything at their end, as I got contacts from HO during this issue.