SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Internal Disciplinary Committee's disregard of evidence and victimhood
DATE: 2025-03-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1j78i0s/internal_disciplinary_committees_disregard_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

Background -- My father works in a commercial Bank and few months ago was the victim of a socially engineered scam. The scamsters posed as a HNI customer and gave convincing evidence such as Blank Cheques and Official Letterhead based request letters asking my dad to transfer X+Y amount to beneficiaries listed in the letterhead. They also called him multiple times with a fake Truecaller ID registered under the guise of the proprietor of the HNI customer and created a fake sense of urgency. This was also a particularly busy day after a few continuous holidays and hence my father approved the transactions as requested by the fraudsters.

Issue -- Now, we are not disputing the lapse in judgement of my father. However, the internal committee constituted to investigate this matter is completely disregarding the Truecaller evidence we have submitted. Their reasoning is that this is a 3rd party application which has no bearing to specified official banking procedures. However it's crucial to show that artificial pressure was created on my father in order to approve the transactions.

Additionally, they are completely disregarding the fact that my father was also a victim of this fraud. They are working to secure the bank's interests and throwing him under the bus. This is reflected in the followings.
1. They didn't register an FIR about the fraud listing the bank as a victim as specified by RBI guidelines.
2. The customer whose account was affected registered an FIR against my father instead of the bank. My father is on bail at present and the matter is under adjudication. Post judgement the bank can expect to recover all the financial loss via several insurances they have against such incidents.
3. Complete disregard of the victimhood of my father.

What I want -- The IDC has submitted a report which finds my father guilty of all internal procedure lapses. I want to mention a few court judgements in our reply to this report where 
1. Truecaller evidence has been accepted as legal evidence. If not this exact thing then maybe some similar electronic evidence being upheld in any court.
2. Court judgements which direct the bank/employer/institution to protect the employee who has been a victim instead of throwing him under the bus.

Would be grateful if anyone could help me out with this.