SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: [SCAM ALERT] Buying used washing machine and fridge? READ THIS
DATE: 2023-09-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/16pjmvd/scam_alert_buying_used_washing_machine_and_fridge/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: We bought 2nd hand washing machine and fridge, it broke and the shop refused to do anything about it, we lost money. Check the last section if you want to know what all to check while buying.

&amp;#x200B;

\[Long post, but please read before making a big financial mistake like us\]

 
So me and my friend who are both from Bengaluru recently shifted to a flat (for proximity to work) and wanted to buy washing machine, fridge, RO, etc. We were looking for different options of buying it. First thing we did was look at a brand new one (coz who wants to buy 2nd hand anyway), saw the price and thought... Hmm... renting does not seem like a bad option. Saw the price for renting, did some calculations and realised that this will also be very costly in the long run. 

Then we were presented this golden option by one of our friends, after seeing a reel: Buying a second hand washing machine and fridge in one of those shops which promise 6 months of guarantee on the devices and a year on the motor and compressor. This was virtually half the price and would be a LOT cheaper than renting (over one year) or buying new. **My parents told me "Don't buy old shit, just go for a new one"** which i obviously ignored coz MONEY.

We jumped at the opportunity and went to the shop to see it (ElectroNeeds HSR -&gt; doxxing em coz they gave me too much trouble). The place was filled with fridges and washing machines. We selected one fridge and washing machine and the bill came to 13k. This was the cost of the cheapest washing machine online so we felt we won and got a free fridge along with it.

&amp;#x200B;

SCAM 1: The person selling us this told us delivery and installation will be completely free. The delivery guy came, saw that house is in 2nd floor and told us: 300 rupees carrying it up fee, if you don't want to pay, take it up yourself and if it does not work after going up it is on you. We caved in and paid. 

SCAM 2: After "installation" (Adding a pipe and connecting the plug), he told that our tap needed a converter to make sure water did not leak and asked Rs.500. The tap in our place was FOR washing machine with those notches which i have at home and knew would not leak. I told him no and shooed him away when he tried to tell me how if water leaked then warranty will be "void".

&amp;#x200B;

After just about 3 days the washing machine died and we called the service guy. He came home after a week or so and told "Sir repair aagalla, senior karitini" (can't repair, will call senior). That guy came, put a wire in place of a fuse and voila it worked. DESPITE me telling him to put a fuse. He said, "Sir, iidu yella common sir yenu aagalla" (this is common, nothing will happen) and went. This is when we realised that we made a mistake.

&amp;#x200B;

SCAM 3 \[THE BIG SCAM\]: After a couple of months the washing machine's base broke. ie. the tub was spinning but the base did not. We called the repair guy and he came a month late. Not even exaggerating, we went to the place 5 times in the name of "warranty" and nothing. Finally he came after a month and told us "sir gearbox hogidde, replace maadskoli" (gearbox is broken get it replaced). We went to that shop guy and he said "Sir iiska replacement koi aur sambhaalta hai aap uusko call karo" (Someone else handles replacement, call him). Tried calling for a week and no response. Finally texted on whatsapp that "repair guy told gearbox broken. It is not under warrenty, buy another one from us". At this point I knew it was over and I lost all money. Still tried reaching out and telling em stuff but alas it was like speaking to a wall.

&amp;#x200B;

WHAT TO CHECK WHILE BUYING:

1. Check how old the washing machine is, a STRICT no if it is &gt; 2-3 years.
2. Check the back and bottom for signs of rusting, ask em to open the back panel if possible (They will probably say no here). Run away if you see any rust.

Alternative: Just buy a new basic washing machine, it costs a bit more but it will not give up on you for a long time and you can probably sell it if you are moving easily.

&amp;#x200B;

Moral of the story: Listen to your parents, they know more than you at least in life events. Finally we ended up buying a new one just like they said but wasted a lot of money in the process.