SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Comic Con '22 - Thoughts + Tips for Sunday visitors
DATE: 2022-11-20
SCORE: 69
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/yziqry/comic_con_22_thoughts_tips_for_sunday_visitors/

--- POST TEXT ---

Disclaimer: Everything is expensive (Food / posters / collectibles). Combo offers in some of the stalls are great though.

- Stock up on water and snacks. Water is 50 rs (How TF is that legal??) and cheapest food costs 200 Rs (more on this below)

- Go early (Reach at 10:30 if you can). First go to the box office queue to get wristbands etc and then join the main entry queue. Make sure you collect the goodie bag before going in because some stalls do not give carry bags. If you're coming by 2 wheeler, make sure you park it away from the main thoroughfare else you'll find a dust pile in its place by the time you get back.

- There is a separate queue in the foodcourt for buying prepaid card for use at the foodcourt stalls only. Buy these and recharge immediately even if you are not going to buy anything immediately. There are queues in front of every food stall and water stall (only 1 for the entire place and they were frequently running out). IMO this is the biggest SCAM going on there because no matter what amount is left in the card at the end of the day, the BookMyShow people are going to take it away from you with a smile and give you a lousy 20 Rs badge in return. 

- There is a seperate section called the Arena set up next to the food court with gamer merch etc. This closed at 7 PM.

- Finally, every other stall I went to had staff and customers struggling to do UPI / Card payments because the mobile network + WiFi was so shitty. I suggest keeping 2-3k in cash for faster checkouts.

My take: 

1) Why didn't these organizers stop sales of the daily pass once they hit the capacity of the venue? This was the biggest detractor for me because if I wasn't jostling with 5 other people in front of EVERY stall just trying to look at the merch, I was cooling my heels in some queue for food / entry / recharging. I couldn't even walk along with my friends because of the rush. This also meant no interaction with the stall owners / creators / cosplayers.

2) Almost every stall seemed completely overwhelmed by the rush. Nobody had the space or staff to control, much less cater to, all the people who were coming in. Lack of connectivity / WiFi just exacerbated it even more.

3) The area in front of the main stage looked dangerously close to a crowd crush event in the afternoon. Couldn't even get to the stalls facing the main stage at the edge of the main crowd. I sincerely hope the organizers have some emergency plan in place for the whole venue in case the crowd grows too big.

Edit: Notable events:

1) 2 dogs literally fighting and biting each other in the middle of the food court around evening. Was really scary till some volunteer guy chased them both away.

2) friend of mine lost a bag with 2k+ worth merch in the crowd. Informed volunteers but no updates from their side till now. 

Notable mentions : 

Qwirk store / RedWolf / Souled Store for T Shirts. Some of the creator / guests stalls also had some very cool designs.

Mozaic games / Zenwood games for some quirky Desi board games ( yudhbhoomi / namma Bengaluru / parikrama )

Notebit for some cool minimalistic posters

Too many good stalls for collectibles and merch!