SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: AI Tinder fakes need a fix, blockchain IDs can help
AUTHOR: Andy Mukherjee
DATE: 2026-03-20
URL: https://theprint.in/tech/ai-tinder-fakes-need-a-fix-blockchain-ids-can-help/2884376/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Machines have finally passed the Turing Test, the mid-century thought experiment designed to see if a computer could fool us into thinking it was human. In an evaluation last year, 73% of respondents thought they’d just had a five-minute conversation with a real person when they had been talking to an artificial-intelligence model.
Since then, AI systems have evolved so quickly they are now fooling humans even in the emotion-laden world of online dating, and not just for five minutes. In November, the Hong Kong-based startup Humanity Protocol demonstrated this vulnerability with a small stunt in Lisbon. They deployed four AI-powered profiles on Tinder that engaged in deep, simultaneous conversations with hundreds of users — and eventually persuaded 40 of them to show up for a dinner date at the same restaurant at the same time.
Instead of romance, the guests found a PR team and a lesson in the fragility of interpersonal interactions in the 21st century. Traditional “liveness checks”— blinking for a camera or holding up a driver’s license — are no longer hurdles for large language models that can generate photorealistic video on demand. As the Humanity team paid for the dinner to apologize for the prank, the message was clear: Trusting strangers online was always a hit-and-miss; AI has made the challenge almost insurmountable.
Show Full Article
A safe solution, especially when it comes to protecting internet users from the $1 trillion-a-year global industry in financial scams, is to use cryptography to pin down identity. The idea is to create a blockchain record of personhood that’s beyond the reach of any government or private app to surveil or manipulate. The public ledger offers a mathematical proof to anyone who comes asking if we’re AI or real — without requiring us to reveal personal data. But how do we prove we exist without turning the internet into more of a global panopticon?
The burgeoning field of decentralized identity offers two diverging paths. At one end is OpenAI founder Sam Altman’s World Network. Its solution is to make users stare into a beach-ball-sized, chrome orb for a high-definition iris scan. However, the technology has proved hard to scale. As of early 2026, the hardware remains absent from four of the world’s five most-populous nations — China, India, Indonesia, and Pakistan — stalled by a mix of logistical challenges and regulatory resistance.
The alternative, championed by Humanity Protocol, does away with bespoke equipment. By employing a user’s own smartphone camera to map the unique patterns of a palm print, Humanity aims to capture more users. However, even this biological approach faces competition from social verification models. Projects like Privado ID are trying to weave a web of trust via encrypted attestations by other verified humans who already know us. Think of it as a digital version of a character reference.
Proving one’s existence is the first step. The real frontier is piecing together an individual’s employment, education, and financial histories — and even their conference and concert attendance — to build a record of credentials provided by various third parties. This is also the goal of the European Union’s digital identity wallet, which began its full-scale rollout earlier this year. Unlike the crypto-centered protocols, the EU is betting on a state-backed digital vault that allows citizens to store everything from university diplomas to pharmacy prescriptions.
Whether state-led or startup-driven, these systems want to help create a marketplace of trust. You can prove you are over 18, or that you meet a specific credit threshold, without the credential seeker ever seeing your raw data.
The palm scan is just one type of authentication, issued directly by the foundation behind Humanity Protocol. There are others — related to education, employment, financial status, and even membership in loyalty programs — that arrive from trusted third parties. “We have credentials allowing people to prove that they’re diamond members of Cathay Pacific,” founder Terence Kwok told me. “That might be interesting information to Emirates.” At all times, the individual user decides if they wish to show their credential. In the US, for instance, customers can get personal loans by using their Human ID to tap into Mastercard Inc.’s Open Finance system for data sharing.
A voluntary, user-driven marketplace in credentials can have many applications, from preventing identity thefts and financial fraud to keeping teenagers out of gambling sites and helping companies discover new marketing opportunities. For instance, a crypto exchange might give customers with just $5,000 in their accounts superior terms if they can prove that they hold $1 million in bank deposits. Prediction markets can use the technology to weed out bad actors — whether they’re bot farms or government officials placing bets on outcomes already known to them.
From the pictures I’ve seen, it looked like the unwitting subjects of the Tinder-dating experiment in Lisbon had a good time — after they’d gone past the embarrassment of having fallen for a hoax. Ultimately, we are moving toward an internet of provenance. It rejects the Silicon Valley model where a Google log-in or Apple ID is the sine qua non of identity. It also repudiates China’s social credit scoring and India’s Aadhaar, which are heavily controlled by the state.
Regardless of their method of verification — biometric or social — the mission of the so-called Web 3.0 startups remains the same: Let identity be owned by the individual so that even in the age of AI, the real human is assured of a place at the table. Nobody needs to get stood up.
This report is auto-generated from ANI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.
Also Read :
Anthropic has brought something new to AI: the power to say ‘no’