SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Vision Offset India Private Limited's data entry job scam.
DATE: 2024-11-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gvkc56/vision_offset_india_private_limiteds_data_entry/

--- POST TEXT ---

I feel so dumb and useless about myself after falling for a job scam by paying Rs. 9000!

After quitting my corporate job for a while, I was desperate to find a job online and work remotely. I got an attractive email for this remote job opportunity from a "genuine data entry company" called **Vision Offset India Private Limited**. They had 2 schemes based on their payment. Under scheme 1, you should pay Rs. 7000 (non-refundable) deposit and under scheme 2, you should pay Rs.9000 (refundable after 2 months). Scheme 2 ensures daily pay out so I opted for that.

I registered myself, thinking that every detail mentioned on their website must be true. After about 20 minutes, I got an email with my project. The deadline was 22nd November 2024. I called their number and they gave me a prompt response for every detail that I asked for. So I was satisfied and started my job. For some reason, on 15th November 2024, I thought of visiting their website. When I googled it again, I was aghast to see an error report which read - " Looks like this domain isn't connected to a website yet" I tried calling their number but it wouldn't get connected.

Upon my research, I found out that the project was to retype a novel - "The Celestial Prophecy" (which already had its digital copy on the internet). I simply thought it was a new novel or something in the beginning. 

By writing this post, I want all my readers to remain alert about this kind of job scam. I searched heavily on the internet regarding this company and I did not find a single negative thing written about it. That's why I thought it was genuine. They constantly kept bragging that they are a registered company and has also been recognised with some Ministry of India. Holy crap!

I have filed a complaint against them on RBI's portal. Not sure how effective that would be.