SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: ‘Winnie-the-Pooh: Blood and Honey’ wins worst picture at Razzies
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2024-03-09
URL: https://theprint.in/entertainment/winnie-the-pooh-blood-and-honey-wins-worst-picture-at-razzies/1994510/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Danielle Broadway
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) – A horror film based on the beloved children’s literary character “Winnie the Pooh” faced the vengeance of Razzie voters on Saturday in the annual Oscar spoof that spotlights Hollywood’s worst performances.
“Winnie-the-Pooh: Blood and Honey” swept the five categories it was nominated for at the 44th Razzies, which included picture, director, screenplay, screen couple and remake/rip-off/sequel.
Show Full Article
Highlighting its worthiness for the awards, The Jagged Edge Productions film was described by Dennis Harvey of Variety as “a rock-bottom joint that fails to meet even the most basic expectations set up by its conceptual gimmick” on Rotten Tomatoes, where the film is certified rotten.
The Razzie Redeemer Award, bestowed on a past contender who has “gone on to better things” since being nominated for a Razzie, went to “The Nanny” actor Fran Drescher for her leadership as SAG-AFTRA president during the 2023 actors strike.
Drescher was nominated in 1998 for worst actress in the romantic comedy film “The Beautician and the Beast.”
Hosts Aaron Goldenberg and Jake Jonez, known for their TikTok personas as The Mean Gays, took one more jab at Drescher, saying sarcastically that she led Hollywood actors through an “unprecedented labor action to an even more unprecedented deal with the AMPTP,” the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers.
Other winners include “Mercy” actor Jon Voight for the actor Razzie owing to his “Lucky Charms leprechaun” Irish accent.
Megan Fox was bestowed with a pair of trophies: the actress Razzie for her “Johnny & Clyde” role and the supporting actress prize for the action film “Expend4bles.”
Sylvester Stallone also took home the Razzie, also known as the Golden Raspberry, for supporting actor for his role in “Expend4bles.”
More than 1,100 Razzie members from across the United States and about two dozen other countries vote on the awards, according to the Razzie website.
(Reporting by Danielle Broadway and Rollo Ross; editing by Jonathan Oatis; Editing by Mary Milliken)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibilty for its content.