SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Rahul Gandhi raises BJP-Left ‘deal’, alleges PM Modi wants LDF victory in Kerala poll campaigns
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/india/rahul-gandhi-raises-bjp-left-deal-alleges-pm-modi-wants-ldf-victory-in-kerala-poll-campaigns/2893307/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Kannur/Kozhikode (Kerala), Mar 31 (PTI) Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday again targeted the BJP and Left front, alleging a “partnership” between them and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants the ruling LDF to win the Assembly election during his poll campaigns in north Kerala.
Gandhi on Tuesday attended poll rallies in Kannur, and at Kallachi, Perambra and Koyilandy in Kozhikode district, where he reiterated his charge that the Congress-led UDF is fighting the combined forces of the LDF and the BJP.
In Kannur, two former CPI(M) leaders — V Kunhikrishnan and T K Govindan — who are contesting as independents with the support of the UDF were also present on the stage.
Show Full Article
“This election is a fight between two ideologies — that of the Left Front led by CPI(M) and that of the UDF. For the first time, we are seeing a partnership between the BJP and the Left Front,” he said.
He said that it is quite surprising that a Left party is aligning with an extreme Right-wing party, as they have diametrically opposite ideologies.
“So the question is, how is it possible that a Left party combines with a Right-wing party? This is like a puzzle,” Gandhi said.
“Some answers to the puzzle are sitting on the stage. There are two veteran leaders from CPI(M) here today. Why are they sitting on our stage and not campaigning for CPI(M) and the chief minister?” he asked.
Gandhi alleged that what is today called the Left Front is no longer a Left or even a centrist formation.
“In fact, they are partnering with the BJP because they are corporate parties. They are no longer parties of the people. The proof is sitting on the stage now. People with Left-minded thinking are with the Congress, and the party is supporting them,” he said.
Questioning the BJP’s stand in Kerala, Gandhi said while the prime minister speaks about religion, temples and God elsewhere, he does not raise the Sabarimala gold loss issue in the state.
He alleged that CPI(M) leaders were involved in the gold loss at Sabarimala and accused the BJP of “remaining silent” on the issue.
“The so-called defender of Hinduism does not speak about Sabarimala when he comes to Kerala. He wants the Left Front to win the election in the state,” Gandhi said.
He further said Left leaders contesting elections as independents with the support of the UDF show that the CPI(M) is no longer a true Left party.
Gandhi said the reason is that the BJP wants the CPI(M) in power in Kerala.
“Because they know that they can control the CPI(M). They know that they cannot control the UDF and the Congress,” he said.
He said PM Narendra Modi knows that only the Congress, and not the CPI(M), can challenge him across the country.
Gandhi said that whoever stands against the BJP is “brutally attacked”.
“I have 36 cases against me. My house was taken away. My Lok Sabha membership was taken away. I was interrogated for 55 hours by the ED,” he said.
He questioned why central agencies have failed to take action against the chief minister in long-standing corruption cases if he truly poses a threat to the BJP.
“Explain to me how his children were not interrogated? Explain to me how he is not attacked?” he asked.
He reiterated his criticism of the India-US deal, alleging that Modi has signed away India’s future to America.
“The result will be obvious soon. Indian farmers are going to be crushed,” he said.
Gandhi also alleged that Modi has compromised India’s energy security, which would affect everyone in the country.
“You will be amazed to know that India can no longer buy oil from whoever it wants. It has to take permission from the US before buying oil. India cannot buy oil from Russia, Iran and Iraq without taking permission from America,” he said.
With a war ongoing in West Asia, the consequences of Modi’s decisions would be seen in the coming weeks.
He further alleged that the India-US deal is linked to the Epstein files and cases registered against industrialist Gautam Adani in America.
He claimed that the Adani company is the financial backbone of the BJP, which is understood by the US and Trump.
At a corner meeting in Perambra, Gandhi said he confronted PM Narendra Modi with questions about the India-US deal in Parliament, but alleged that he “ran away”.
“Don’t worry, please understand one thing — no matter what happens, the Congress party is going to get Narendra Modi. He can run as fast and as far as he wants, but in the end, the Congress party is going to catch him,” he said.
Gandhi reiterated his allegation that just as Trump controls Modi, Modi controls the Chief Minister of Kerala.
At Kallachi in Kozhikode, Gandhi said that just as Modi calls Trump “Sir”, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan calls Modi “Sir”.
He alleged that Modi is protecting Vijayan.
In Koyilandy, Gandhi referred to the rising drug menace in Kerala.
“They don’t fight the drug menace. Kerala has become number one in drugs,” he said.
He said that Kerala had good health facilities, which have collapsed under the LDF government.
He assured that the five guarantees of the Congress will be fulfilled. PTI TBA TBA ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.