SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Australia aims to ensure COP31 works in everyone’s interest: Australian Envoy Green
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-22
URL: https://theprint.in/india/australia-aims-to-ensure-cop31-works-in-everyones-interest-australian-envoy-green/2885913/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 22 (PTI) Australia is “deliberately leaning forward” to support its Pacific neighbours while also engaging key players like India, to ensure the UN Conference of Parties (COP) works in the interests of everyone, Australian envoy Philip Green said.
The 31st United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 31) is slated to be held in Antalya, Türkiye, with Australia taking on the role of President of Negotiations.
In an interview with PTI Videos, Australian High Commissioner to India, Green, highlighted that the UN climate talks are important to Australia both domestically and in its near abroad, which has driven their effort to involve countries like India in the next pre-COP meetings hosted in Pacific countries (Fiji and Tuvalu) and the subsequent summit in Türkiye.
Show Full Article
“Australia is “deliberately leaning forward” to support its Pacific neighbours while also engaging key players like India, to ensure the UN Conference of Parties (COP) works in the interests of everyone,” Green said.
Asked about Australia’s role leading COP31 negotiations despite being a major global fossil fuel exporter, Green said that their goal is to ensure the conference produces climate change pathways that align with the interests of all countries, the different challenges they face, and their various routes to net zero.
“Australia is a profound believer in the importance of climate action. Domestically, we have identified that by 2030, 80 per cent of the power in our grid will be renewable. We also have a net-zero goal for 2050 and one of the more forward-leaning goals for 2035,” Green told PTI.
The COP presidency rotates among the five recognised UN regional groups – African Group, Asia-Pacific Group, Eastern European Group, Latin American and Caribbean Group (GRULAC), and Western European and Others Group (WEOG).
While the UNFCCC Draft Rules of Procedure provide a formal framework for the COP presidency, they do not have a separate position for ‘President of Negotiations.’ For COP31, however, a bilateral arrangement between Türkiye and Australia provides that Türkiye will hold the COP presidency, while Australia will serve as President of Negotiations.
“The UNFCCC doesn’t have any criteria or restrictions in selecting its host, and since 2021 the majority have been fossil fuel exporters, leaving the slimy fingerprints of the industry on the outcomes of the talks,” Alex Rafalowicz, Director of Fossil Fuel Treaty told PTI.
He stated that for Australia’s leadership of the climate negotiations to be “credible,” it needs to address the harm caused by its coal and gas exports.
“The Albanese government pushed its case internationally to be host of the talks, and based that on being an ally of Pacific governments, while simultaneously approving 35 coal and gas projects or extensions,” Rafalowicz said.
COP27 was held in Egypt in 2022, followed by COP28 in the UAE in 2023. The next two conferences, COP29 and COP30, were hosted by Azerbaijan and Brazil, respectively. PTI ABU SKY SKY
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.