SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Himachal govt to formulate policy for multi-task workers after legal counsel: CM Sukhu
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-19
URL: https://theprint.in/india/himachal-govt-to-formulate-policy-for-multi-task-workers-after-legal-counsel-cm-sukhu/2883911/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Shimla, Mar 19 (PTI) Himachal Pradesh government will formulate a policy for multi-task workers across various departments after obtaining legal counsel, Chief Minister Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu told the state assembly on Thursday.
The chief minister made the statement while intervening during a discussion on a question raised by the BJP MLA Satpal Singh Satti.
Public Works Department Minister Vikramaditya Singh, while replying to the primary question, noted that the previous government had initially framed a policy for multi-task workers.
Show Full Article
Initially, they were paid an honorarium of Rs 4,000 per month. The current government first raised this amount to Rs 4,500 and then to Rs 5,500 per month, he said.
The minister added that specific duties for these workers are determined by the assistant engineers and junior engineers and a decision regarding their service conditions will be taken soon.
Responding to a question raised by Congress MLA Anuradha Rana, the chief sinister said that 12 farmers in the state filed cases of fraud against various companies, traders, and commission agents during 2025.
Sukhu informed the House that police take action as per established rules, registering FIRs against individuals where a prima facie case is established.
He explained that following detailed investigations, the gathering of evidence, police report and charge sheets are filed in court. Punitive action follows if the accused are proven guilty, with provisions also existing to suspend or cancel relevant licenses or registrations.
In response to a question of BJP MLA Bikram Thakur, Sukhu said that no fee would be levied for cutting bamboo on private land as Bamboo has been reclassified and removed from the category of “trees.” He said that a permit fee becomes applicable only when people cut bamboo and transport it to other states. Patwaris (revenue officials) and Forest Guards visit the site specifically to verify whether the bamboo is indeed being cut on private land, or if any felling is taking place on government land.
Following the amendment to the Indian Forest Act, 1927, by the Government of India, bamboo grown on private land is no longer classified as a tree. PTI BPL AKY
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.