SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Delhi Police arrest cabbie for wrong-side driving, using fake number plate
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/delhi-police-arrest-cabbie-for-wrong-side-driving-using-fake-number-plate/2895558/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 2 (PTI) The Delhi Police has arrested a taxi driver for allegedly driving on the wrong side of the Dwarka Expressway and using a fake registration number plate on his vehicle, an official said on Thursday.
The action was initiated after a complaint was lodged by a police constable regarding a vehicle bearing which was seen violating traffic rules near Bharthal Chowk on the Dwarka Expressway.
The incident also surfaced on social media platforms after a video went viral showing the the taxi driver on the wrong side of the road stopped his vehicles and started abusing another vehicle driver who was on the right side of the road.
Show Full Article
A case was registered and further investigation was taken up on March 31, police said.
During investigation, the registered owner of the vehicle was called for questioning and informed the police that his car had remained parked at his residence and had not been taken onto the expressway.
“Upon being shown the viral video, he identified the driver as Ankit, a resident of Rohtak in Haryana, and clarified that the vehicle seen in the clip had a different roof colour,” the officer said.
The police said that further probe involving call detail records (CDR), mobile location tracking, and local enquiries led to the identification and detention of the accused.
During interrogation, Ankit revealed that the original registration number of his vehicle was different. However, due to the expiry of the vehicle’s permit, he had affixed a fake registration number, belonging to another vehicle owned by an associate from his village, and was using it illegally.
Subsequently, Section 345(3) of the BNS was added to the case. The accused has been arrested and the offending vehicle seized, police said, adding that further investigation is underway. PTI BM BM NB NB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.