SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Subleasing Apartment Scam in DC?
DATE: 2019-02-10
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/aozlmm/subleasing_apartment_scam_in_dc/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm a law student looking to sublease an apartment in DC this summer for a summer job. I found an apartment on a Facebook group for DC housing (the page is run by Alpaca) and sent a message. The place would be absolutely perfect if real. There are a few red flags here though, and I'm curious if the sub thinks this is a scam.

The guy, "AAA," replies quickly and moves the conversation to email. AAA's profile picture is of a generic white dude. He had listed the apartment at 1400/mo, I countered at 1000, which I know was a lowball, but he accepted it. He sends me a pretty reasonable email with the exact address and some policies about utilities, etc. He attached a rental application form which I filled out and returned, giving only basic info like my current address.

The next morning, he emails me saying the landlord, "BBB," approved the sublease, and he attached a full sublease agreement with his signature and the landlords. It's a PDF where the signature was electronically placed, it seems - it's not a scan. He provided me the landlord's bank account information, which is with Sun Trust, to do a wire transfer for the deposit and first month ($2000 total). I signed the lease in Adobe and sent it back, but didn't do the bank transfer.

I'm a bit wary at this point but also excited. In my email back, I state that I'd like to do a video tour and have a chat with him and the landlord. He gives me his number, which I call several times throughout the day, and get no answer. (Also, the phone just rang and rang - no voicemail message). He also gave me the landlord's phone number and I call, no answer. 

He sends me a dropbox link to a video tour, which matches the photos. That wasn't exactly what I asked for, though - I wanted a live Facetime tour, not a prerecorded video. Also, the video is clearly taken in the summer. I can see in the mirror in the video that a white guy was taking it.

Anyhow, later that day he does call me back. He has an Indian accent and the cell phone reception is not very good. I asked where he worked and why he was subleasing, he said he works at a DC pharmacy but will be transferring. I googled his name along with the pharmacy and did see him listed on the pharmacy website. There is even a photo and it shows an Indian guy. In this call, he assures me that everything is good and traceable and that he has done this before and that everything is fine.

I did get an email back from the landlord, who I emailed, confirming that he signed the lease and that the unit will be available this summer. The email is from an AOL account and he is not affiliated with a management company.

I did pull the deed on the apartment unit from the DC tax assessor's office and it says it's a condo owned by someone else, "CCC," who has not been mentioned in any communications.

The fact that there is a real lease, and the fact that AAA's story about the pharmacy work checks out, weigh in favor of it not being a scam. The inconsistency of AAA's identity, the weirdness about the video tour, and the fact that they want me to wire money suggests it is a scam. What do you think? Also, if I did a wire transfer through this Sun Trust bank, and it turned out the whole thing was a scam, would the bank give me a refund? (I understand that MoneyGram, etc, would not, but this bank seems more legit.)