I bought a Xiaomi 14 Mobile phone on[protected] through Amazon. It was advertised during the product launch and still on Xiaomi's website, and Mi Store (app) that this phone has a 75mm floating telephoto lens. After observing severe quality loss in photos taken with this said 75mm telephoto lens, I grew skeptical about the lens and started investigating. On changing the focal length (zoom) manually, it was observed that the main camera shifts to the telephoto lens at a lower focal length than what was advertised by Xiaomi. The 75mm focal length was at 3.2x magnification while the phone actually switches to the telephoto lens at 2.6x i.e. at 62mm. Hence, this 75mm was confirmed to be a digital crop of the 62mm lens. This discrepancy is a clear case of misleading advertising, breaching consumer trust and potentially deceiving customers (including me) into purchasing the product based on false information. This matter was taken up with Xiaomi's executives by requesting a call back through the Xiaomi Services+ app but neither a resolution nor a convincing reply was received from them. This device was then taken to a Xiaomi showroom and also to a Service Centre to register and escalate the issue but there was no response from them. Reasons for Complaint: 1. False and misleading advertising, violating consumer protection laws 2. Breach of contract: discrepancy between advertised and actual product specifications 3. Unfair trading practice: intentionally deceiving customers to make purchasing decisions 4. Lack of transparency: failure to provide accurate product information 5. Financial loss: purchased based on false advertising, affecting value for money. 6. Disappointment and frustration due to unmet expectations 7. Loss of trust: compromised faith in Xiaomi's brand and advertising. 8. Unfulfilled needs: the actual camera specifications do not meet my requirements Any documentation can be presented upon request. Desirable Resolution of Complaint: 1. Suitable compensation for the losses I faced and for the scam I fell into. Product Name: Xiaomi 14 Mobile Phone Date of Purchase (Invoice):[protected] Under Warranty: Yes Model No: 23127PN0CG Part No: MZB0GFFIN SN: 53846/G4PR01197 + 1 videos Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (0)