SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got threatened to write an apology letter
DATE: 2024-07-08
SCORE: 103
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dy5by9/got_threatened_to_write_an_apology_letter/

--- POST TEXT ---

I, 25M, was in a live in relationship for 6 months with a 25F. We had broken up in good terms. Yesterday some unknown person on Telegram sent her an intimate video of her's and said that your Ex-boyfriend """" has sent me these and has also posted these on reddit. He took my name. And then deleted the chats. She wasn't able to get the details such as name, number, username of that person. Let's call him Abhi. She doesn't even have the video as it was an expiring video. She filed a complaint against me and I was called to the police station. Police asked me if I had shared anything to anyone and I denied (because I didn't). My ex kept saying that it was some video which only she and I had. She wrote an FIR and went. The police was hesitating to take the case because of lack of evidence and she was flying back to Kolkata last night. I am from Hyderabad. The police asked her to file the case at Kolkata. After she left, police took away my phone and kept it for the night. Today I was called in the morning to visit. Her friend had come. Let's call her M. 

I got to know that she has complained about 2 things: 

1. Me circulating her nudes
2. Me threatening her by calling via an unknown number

About point 2: I got to know that 7 months after our break-up, she had texted to one of my colleagues asking about how I am and how is my cat etc. I called her and I was blocked. Then I used my friends phone to contact her and I just said to stop calling me. The police asked for the number and she didn't even had that and she said it's not in her call logs and she doesn't have a recording. 

Today when I went to the PS, they were still not giving my phone back. They were redirecting the case to the cyber crime branch. I had my office and I needed my phone for the 2FA and OTP etc, and just to avoid getting any further trouble, I asked my ex if this can be settled in anyway. So she offered me to write an apology letter stating that I'm sorry for circulating your photos and videos and if you get any such messages, you can take action against me. (this is the part where I think I f'ed up). 

My phone was given back and I was released. What's the next thing I should do? Did I do something wrong by writing the apology letter?