SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Googletravelstride a scam?
DATE: 2024-11-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gu2bb6/googletravelstride_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

thanks for all the posts so far. I have read them with Interest and it looks that there is something not quite right. I got approached via text message by a recruiting agency I was actually registered with but I doubt that it was actually them. It was from a mobile phone number and I was asked whther I was interested in work. I wasn't but I was curious so expecting a job opportunity in my line of business I agreed for her to send me the infomration.

I was then asked for my consent to talk to an agent via whatsapp. The conversation went over to a good looking person probably from a model school. I wanted to push for a call half expecting an Indian call centre voice behind blond model. Anyway I checked the number and it was actually from the UK from one of the big mobile providers. I couldn't get any other information about the company other than that it is with google, you work from home and you can earn between 30 and 40k per year. The job consists of reviews for tourist destinations without going there. Arn't these false reviews???

I now needed to do some training. The model was contacting me at all times of the day to push me to do the online training. She was very polite but persistant. 
I couldn't get any more information about the company. 

Digging a bit further with online tools I could find out that the website and domain were set up in October 24 about 6 weeks before I am writing this. 

Trying to access the website AVG virus checker came up with a warning of it being a phishing website and blocked the IP address. I informed them (the agent) to see what they would have to say. I was then asked to use my mobile phone instead. 

Other than it being unethical to leave fake reviews it looks that at best it is just a startup which would make me doubt the revenue they promise. Whoever the company is it is only new and it could be gone tomorrow if they are not making the revenue they hope.

My advice to you is to approach this with extreme caution. Don't pay anything to them for training or products, be very careful if you agree to anything contractually. Be careful about giving away your financial information. Have zero expectations of getting anything. If you engage with the company make sure you can't get scammed or end up with a lot of debt.

In the end all you have is a photo of a gorgeous model whoever is behind it, a blacklisted website and people trying to get hold of your data engaging you in some activity with the promise of pay.

Their recruitment method of employing anybody without any quals or proof of competency with the promise of earning 40k per year?????? 

If it sounds too good to be true there is a good chance that it isn't true.

You don't know who they are in the end