SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Legal Remidy Regarding Data Privacy Breach
DATE: 2023-10-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1793ns5/legal_remidy_regarding_data_privacy_breach/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I have been receiving calls from service providers regarding investing and trading ever since I open my account with Angel One Limited. I filed a complaint with SEBI on SCORES portal. SEBI Officer forwarded my complaint to NSE. Now, NSE took up my complaint with Angel One almost after a month the complaint was forwarded to them.

Angel One responded saying this is "baseless allegation" by client and declined the same. Moreover, they asked NSE to close the case prima facie since they are not under the jurisdiction to handle these type of cases.

I then responded stating the conversation I had with one of these services provider callers, where the caller confirmed that they have received my number because I have opened a Demat account (which I ahe opened with Angel One only) but they didn't take the name of the broker (I think they might be getting these personal data via middleman so that they don't actually reveal the name of the real entity behind it, and broker can simply call this a baseless or without solid evidence and reject the same) - SYSTEM LOOPHOLE??. I provided the call recording of the same to NSE.

I then had a concall conversation with NSE Offier and Angel One Compliance Officer. Compliance Officer told me that they don't sell such personal data and I (OP/me) am saying this based on notational belief without any proper evidence. Infact, he said "I don't have any proof at all". The call recording which I have is vauge and don't take name of Angel One. He said that this can be investigated by Cyber Police and gather the proof of the same. He advised me to approach Cyber Police and file a complaint with them.

These services providers have everything from name to mobile no. They also knew that I do trade. I was just surprised, how the hell they knew? I don't know which other information do they have.

What would you advise whether should I file a complaint with Cyber Police for sharing my personal data or not? Is it advisable to take this legally forward?

Please provide you comments on this.