SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Are they trying to scam me, and what to do?
DATE: 2024-06-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d9g41o/are_they_trying_to_scam_me_and_what_to_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

A couple weeks ago I bought a set of books from Amazon. I didn't realize at the time, but it was sold by a third party seller. It said 2-3 weeks to delivery, but I thought nothing of it, as those books seem to be in low stock right now. I did notice that the label on the tracking number was generated in India, which is unusual, but I guess they were just books, and there was a long time to deliver.

The delivery day came and past and they didn't delivery. Amazon told me to keep waiting for a few extra days before getting an automatic refund. The tracking number was still showing nothing, just that the label was created in India. Then, suddenly, two days before the Amazon deadline, the tracking number started showing it was shipped from a US address and that it would be delivered in the next two days (looking back, I am not sure if the seller switched the tracking number at this point).

Packaged was delivered. The moment I got it I knew it wasn't was I bought. It was a very small package. I took multiple pictures of it, and have abundant proof that it was the package delivered by Fedex from the tracking number showing on Amazon. I opened it an it is a used small trash product that can't possibly cost more than 5 bucks (my order was over 100).

Immediatelly reached out to Amazon. They gave the refund very fast (less than 2 minutes chatting, didn't even ask for any proof - although I guess they should have access to the delivery picture showing a very small package), told me to keep or dispose the item. They said it was a one time exception, but no complains there.

The next day the seller reached out to me (through Amazon) asking me to return the product because it was "marked as defective" (not sure if this is how Amazon labeled it internally). I ignored for a day or two, to see if they would follow up, because I had already solved the issue on my end through Amazon. And at this point I already had some reason to believe that this could be a scam.

Then the very shady part started. They tracked me down across the internet. They sent me messages across social media (including LinkedIn, from a fake profile), asking me to "cooperate", that they couldn't reach me, and that they needed pictures to send to their "shipping partner". I blocked them everywhere I could, and sent a short message on Amazon with the picture of what I received and saying that I had solved the issue with Amazon - who knows, I responded because maybe they actually needed the picture and there was an honest mistake, even though they were sus contacting me on social media.

They sent me a message saying the item was delivered... and sent me a completely different tracking number that, at a first glance, seemed to have been delivered in my city - and claimed I was "confused" or maybe a "family member got it". But when I checked the details of the tracking page (they only sent me a picture in their message, but I wanted to inspect it so I went to website). It actually states some interesting things: the package seems to actually have the size and weight of what I bought; while the page claims to be delivered at my city (5 days after I bought it), the package seems to have teleported at the last day, from India to US... and, in the detailed shipping record it shows that the package was actually requested to be returned to the shipper/seller - so the tracking page says it was delivered in the US, but all detailed shipment info points to it never leaving India. Then it was signed by what it looks like a commercial name (no pictures of delivery, which they always do at my address). I searched, and it seems to be another store, that seems to sell products in the US (Amazon, walmart, etc), but is physically located in India as well.

At this point, it looks very evident that this is a scam. I responded with this info and how it was impossible to for me to have received it (even if they will keep the ruse, just to have it logged in the Amazon message system so they can't claim anything against me).

But then, what should I do next? I think I should stop replying, but the fact that they tracked me on social media, and obviously they have my name and address (and whatever else they could gather from searching me online - my name is not very common, so not hard sadly)... it seems like intimidation tactics. Has anyone here been through something similar, and has any suggestion on what to do?