SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: ‘Godman’ Kharat faces 8 FIRs, including of rape; SIT probing role of officials, aides: Fadnavis
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/india/godman-kharat-faces-8-firs-including-of-rape-sit-probing-role-of-officials-aides-fadnavis/2887642/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mumbai, Mar 24 (PTI) Eight FIRs have been lodged by police against self-styled godman Ashok Kharat after receiving multiple complaints involving allegations of sexual assault, extortion, and circulation of objectionable material, Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Tuesday.
Speaking in the legislative assembly, Fadnavis, who holds the Home portfolio, said the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up to probe cases against Nashik-based Kharat would also examine the possible involvement of government officials in the offences.
“A total of eight FIRs have been filed against Kharat. He was in police custody till today (Tuesday) and we have got an extension (till March 29 from a Nashik court) for further probe. Out of these cases, seven are with the SIT. I have presented an interim report before the House,” he said.
Show Full Article
He said the first case came to light on December 19, 2025, when Kharat himself lodged a police complaint in Nashik district alleging one Dinesh Manaji Parab had threatened to release an objectionable video involving the complainant and a woman unless Rs 5 crore was paid to him.
Police registered a case under the IT Act and Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) section 308 (extortion) after examining phone call records, messages and screenshots.
Fadnavis said another complaint was filed on February 18, 2026, in Shirdi in Ahilyanagar district, where a woman alleged that one Neeraj Jadhav had created and shared an AI-generated image of her and threatened to make it viral.
“Though the accused deleted the image, he had issued threats. A case was registered, but the complainant did not provide substantive details,” he told the House.
During the investigation of the second case, police recovered crucial evidence from devices linked to Kharat’s aides.
“During the probe of Jadhav, Kharat’s associate Yogesh Bhalerao showed some videos. Police found that as many as 35 videos of eight women were stored in the mobile handset,” Fadnavis said.
He alleged that Kharat posed as a religious figure to exploit women.
“Kharat presented himself as a self-styled godman and indulged in rape and obscene behaviour with women. One of the witnesses who attempted to produce evidence feared for his life from Kharat,” the chief minister stated.
Fadnavis informed the assembly that a lookout circular was issued against Kharat on March 10 to prevent him from leaving the country, and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted to probe cases against him.
On March 17, a woman lodged a complaint at the Sarkarwada police station in Nashik, alleging she was called to Kharat’s office at ‘Canada Corner’ building, given water and later threatened with her husband’s life before being raped multiple times, the CM maintained.
“Kharat was arrested on March 17. During searches, police seized two laptops, one revolver and 21 live cartridges and found that he owned a farmhouse at Mirgaon in Nashik district,” Fadnavis said, adding the probe against the ‘godman’ was formally handed over to the SIT on March 19.
“Three women have agreed to lodge complaints and a total of six cases have been filed so far in this connection (related to sexual assault and exploitation). All photos and videos (related to cases) have been removed from social media, and a notice has been issued to a news channel for revealing the identity of a survivor,” he said.
Detailing one of the cases, Fadnavis said between February 2020 and March 18, Kharat allegedly called a woman repeatedly to his office, made her consume “enchanted water” and sexually assaulted her under the guise of religious rituals.
“She became pregnant and Kharat later gave her pills for abortion. He also threatened her,” the CM stated.
The chief minister said the SIT would also examine the possible involvement of government officials in cases filed against the accused.
“We are also going to probe if any (government) officials are involved in these cases. We will find out whether Kharat accumulated wealth in the names of his relatives or close aides,” he said.
Responding to a query by Shiv Sena (UBT) MLA Bhaskar Jadhav on when names of officials would be disclosed, Fadnavis stated, “We have deliberately entrusted the SIT probe to a woman officer who has a good track record. Every piece of evidence will be recorded and all those involved will face action.” PTI ND RSY
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.