SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: A scammer fooled me
DATE: 2025-03-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1jg9y5r/a_scammer_fooled_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, few days back a scammer fooled me and used me to scam someone else. 

For the context , i have a broker friend who asked me that one of his clients is looking for a 2bhk house to move into our city. He has been transferred to the sbi bank branch of our city. I said ok , and I contacted to one uncle of mine who has a 2bhk flat and was looking for a tenant. The alleged client said that he will pay the advance and book the flat online because he was in an urgent need. Uncle sent me a video of the flat which I have forwarded and the alleged tenant liked it he was ready to pay. At this point I took both the uncle and the alleged tenant on conference call and they both had a conversation and cleared all the doubts. 

Now the alleged tenant said that his bank will pay on his behalf, so his bank will do a neft of 6 months advance rent. Uncle was supposed to keep 3 months rent and return him the remaining amount in to his account as he didn't wanted to pay 6 months rent up front . Uncle was ok with it. 

They exchanged id , the alleged tenant shared his aadhar card and sbi bank's employee id , uncle also shared his id and they exchanged number. I told uncle that once you receive the amount please let me know.

30 mins passed. I am receiving a call from that uncle , the alleged tenant has called him personally and sent him a message that 84000 rs has been sent to his account. Whereas the original rent amount was 12000 and the amount that was decided to be sent was 72000. Uncle was supposed to keep 36000 and return the remaining. I was not informed about any of the changes made. 

Now he has sent a fake message to uncle that 84000 rs was sent to him . Uncle without even checking his own balance, refunded him 52000 from his account. He didn't inform me then also. The alleged tenant again called him that I will send you 30000 for electric bill you keep half and send me the rest. Uncle cut the call and then called me and informed me about all this. At that moment I knew something was wrong. I called the tenant from my number and asked him to refund the 52000 to uncle. He said he will do that in 10 mins. Uncle said ok no problem I will wait. 

But I told him that I think this is a scam please go to the nearest police station. He was ok with waiting but I wasn't. I went to my nearest cyber cell and took my broker friend with me as well. He was also surprised by all this . We both went to the cyber cell and the police confirmed that this is a scam. We tried filing a report but couldn't as the money was sent from uncle's account and he was supposed to file a report. The cyber cell officer was very helpful helped uncle to lodge a complaint in 1930. 

I am completely devastated. The irony is every time I called the scammer he received the call, I requested him , cried even threatened him to return the money but every time he came up with excuses. He called uncle and asked him to give his debit card details for returning the money, uncle was ready to share but I stopped him from doing that.

I want to ask what steps I can take legally now. Uncle is not contacting me anymore and I heard from one or two common friends that he is telling everyone that he gave the money because of my reference.

I want to know legally what else should I do to help him retrieve the money. 

Please help. I live alone and I hv had two panic attacks from yesterday. I can't concentrate on anything and this is eating me up from inside.

Help.