SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: DHAN Referral Code is (BGZIY05832) to get 20% cashback & lifetime free demat
AUTHOR: By:Siraj Ansari
DATE: 2024-02-17
URL: https://theprint.in/theprint-valuead-initiative/dhan-referral-code-is-bgziy05832-to-get-20-cashback-lifetime-free-demat/1969975/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

D
han referral code is BGZIY05832. By using this dhan referral code get 20% brokerage cashback for a lifetime. Dhan is one the best optional & futures trading platform. Dhan is indians top and most trusted
Online stock trading and investing platform for Stocks, F&O, Commodity, Currency, ETFs, Mutual Funds and IPO – Start online trading in stock market.
Dhan Referral code
Dhan referral code 2024  is :  BGZIY05832
Show Full Article
Demat /Stock broker
Dhan
Dhan Referral Code
BGZIY05832
Dhan Refer & Earn
Web/App
Signup Bonus
Free Demat
Per Referral
20% Commission
How to Signup Dhan Using Referral Code
Visit Dhan  from here
Enter mobile number and email
Verify both using otp
Enter Dhan referral code :
BGZIY05832
Complete Kyc in 5 minutes, just add pan number, selfie and aadhar e sign.
How does Dhan Referral Program Work?
To participate in dhan referral program you must signup dhan using referral code (
BGZIY05832) and verify your account using adhar e kyc and start referring friends.
Earn every time your friend trades!
Share your QR code to refer friends easily
See how many of your contacts are on Dhan
Earn referral rewards for life!
Introduce your Friend to Dhan
Refer your friend: Investor or Trader
2 Your friend trades on Dhan
Earn 20% of brokerage when that happens 🙂
​​Frequently Asked Questions
Questions on your mind? Don’t worry we have the answers!
How do I refer my family or friends to Dhan?
You can refer your friends by sharing your referral link or referral code with them.
You can also get your friends to scan your personalised referral QR code & follow the link to open their Dhan account.
The link, code and QR code are available on the “Refer and Earn” page of any Dhan platform. To go to this section follow the below steps:
1. Login on Dhan App or Web.
2. Click on your profile.
3. Tap on “Refer and Earn”.
Please note that for a successful referral, your friend must use the link to open the account OR enter your referral code during registration with Dhan.
How will I benefit if my friend joins Dhan using my referral link/code?
Yes, Options Trader app is a safe platform that is regulated by SEBI. It uses the latest security principles to ensure that user data is safe and secure at all times. Furthermore, the brokerage fees and other charges are transparent and always visible via the TXN Estimator.
Where can I see my referral earnings?
Every time the friend you invited trades, you earn 20% of the brokerage paid by them. For life time!
For example –
Say you referred friend X. He traded on Dhan yesterday and generated a brokerage of Rs 20. On the next day you will receive brokerage credit of Rs 4 (20 X 20%).These rewards will be credited to your Dhan account in the ‘Amount Earned’ section of the referral page.
How do I withdraw my referral earnings?
In the case of Dhan, unlike many other stock brokers, we do not give you brokerage credits. The reward on Dhan is money for referral, and the same is transferred to your bank account once you place the withdrawal request from the refer and earn section.
In order to withdraw, you must have placed at least one trade with Dhan and have Rs 100 accumulated in your Refer & Earn section.
In the “Refer and Earn” page of Dhan App or Web, you can see the amount of earnings that are available for withdrawal. Withdrawable earnings are accumulated earnings less earnings withdrawn.
You can click on “Withdraw to bank” and transfer of these earnings to your bank account will be initiated. The amount will be credited to your bank account by the next working day
How can I see if my friend joined Dhan or not?
On the “Refer and Earn” page of Dhan App, in the section titled “My Friends and Contacts” you can tap on “Referred by me” to view the list of friends you have invited on Dhan. Please note the list only contains friends who have registered at least their mobile number with Dhan, using your referral link.
How can I remind my friends to trade?
On the “Refer and Earn page”, in the section titled “My Friends and Contacts”, you can tap on “Joined, not invested”. Remind!” to see your friends that have initiated KYC or have opened their account, but not yet traded. Click on the Remind button to send a pre-made whatsapp message to your friend.
Why was my friend not mapped to my account even though I referred him?
When you share the unique referral link or code, you need to ensure that your friend uses this referral code to sign up. If not, your friend’s account will not have you mapped as a referrer.
In case your friend has used any other person’s referral code or clicked on any other person’s referral link instead of yours, then in that case the one who introduces your friend originally will be receiving the reward for that friend, and not you.
How do I know who’s referral I have used or who I’m mapped to?
As a referee, when you first register on Dhan, during the onboarding process you will be shown who’s referral link or code you have used to register your account. This is the friend your account is mapped to you and the person who will receive referral rewards every time you trade.
This mapping remains the same even after your onboarding journey is complete. Therefore, once your Dhan account is activated, this information is not displayed again. In such cases you can reach out to us at help@dhan.co and will reiterate for you, who you are mapped to.
How can I change the Dhan referral code or link I have used during onboarding?
Once you click on a referral link
and start your onboarding journey, a screen is displayed after your mobile pin is set. This screen shows who referred you. There is an option at the bottom of the screen to edit and change the referral code. After you update this code and proceed, your account will permanently be mapped to this referrer and cannot be changed again.
After my account is opened, can I add a friend’s Dhan  referral code or link?
Once you proceed from the referral section in your onboarding journey, your referral code, if any, is permanently mapped and cannot be changed.
This means that even when your account is activated, you cannot add a new referral code or change the current referrer that you are mapped to.
Why am I not able to withdraw my Dhan referral earnings?
Referral reward can be withdrawn only when the accumulated balance is at least INR 100. Additionally, you need to place at least one trade on Dhan to withdraw your referral earnings.
Therefore, to withdraw referral earnings, you must ensure that you have traded on Dhan and your earnings exceed INR 100.
Is there any limitation on the number of Dhan referrals per month or year ?
Referral rewards on Dhan are not subject to any limitations. You may refer any amount of people and earn any amount of rewards. We do not have restrictions in this regard.
Dhan Referral Offer Read Terms & Conditions
The offers are valid only for Indian Residents.
As per the existing referral program, referror earns 20% of all brokerage generated from referee.
In order to earn referral rewards, the referror should have placed at least one trade on Dhan.
Once an account is opened using the referral link, the referror is eligible to earn from brokerage on all referee trades, irrespective of when the trades are made. There is no time limit for account activation.
Brokerage earned is visible on the platform.
Referror may withdraw referral earnings if the earnings are equal to or above INR 100.
Earnings once withdrawn, will be credited to the referror’s bank account, subject to TDS if applicable.
If a client is already registered and then later uses a referrorr’s link to complete the account opening process, the referrer will not be eligible for any rewards.
Individual clients cannot refer another non-individual account (eg. HUF, Corporate, Partnership/LLP, Trust) with the same contact details as their own account.
Referrors must withdraw referral rewards before 31st of March every year. In case he fails to do so, the rewards will lapse.
All rewards will be credited to referrer’s linked bank account.
Referral credits will be earned by the referrer only if the referee has used the relevant referral link/ code.
Referral rewards earned on any given day will be credited to the referror’s account latest by next day.
These rewards cannot be transferred to any family member or friends or any other person.
Participants shall not, since being eligible to receive any payment/payout from Dhan, enter into any contracts or publish any marketing material/advertisement acting as Dhan or act as a referral agent of Dhan without the explicit written permission of Dhan.
Participant understands that publishing any marketing or advertisement material requires permission/intimation towards the Exchanges. Participant will not & have not publish’ed any marketing material without the explicit permission of Dhan.
The participants agree that they have read and understood NSE circular NSE/INSP/43029 dated December 26, 2019. Any dispute/grievance under this early access scheme cannot be referred to the Investor Grievance Panel at NSE and will be resolved between participants and Moneylicious Securities Pvt. Ltd. (Dhan) as stated in the above mentioned NSE Circular, and any such dispute should not be made public.
The participants understand that they and Moneylicious Securities Pvt. Ltd. (Dhan) are both bound by the rules and regulations of the regulator, exchanges and other statutory and government rules & regulations.
Moneylicious Securities Pvt. Ltd. (Dhan) reserves the right to amend/revoke/ withhold the offers and these terms and conditions at any time without prior notice. The decision of Moneylicious Securities on all matters relating to, or in connection with the use of this offer shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
The participants agree that they are participating at their own will, and no financial or investment advice has been provided to them by Moneylicious Securities or by anyone else.