SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Did I get scammed by this taxi uncle at Anand Vihar?
DATE: 2024-12-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1hl8sxv/did_i_get_scammed_by_this_taxi_uncle_at_anand/

--- POST TEXT ---

I took a local taxi from Anand Vihar to vikas puri yesterday. My phone was dead at the time, so I couldn’t check the fare on Uber or Ola, and I didn’t know what to expect. I usually prefer to use those apps for convenience, but since my phone was out of battery, I had no choice but to take a local taxi. I got approached by a stout taxi uncle who was squatted on the footpath and looking at me for a while from the other side.

When I got in, the driver started chatting with me, and we got talking about where I was heading. He asked if I was new to Delhi, I didnt say anything to that, but I think he realized I wasn’t familiar with how the local taxis work and my following answers to his other questions may have helped confirm it as he smiled after a while and said dillee mein aapaka svaagat hai, beta. He seemed to know I was a bit lost ig But he was quite chatty throughout the trip.

The driver told me he'd need to take a longer route as there is a toll of 200 rupees for the shorter route to which I agreed. I don’t usually take local taxis, mainly because I either get rides from my parents or take the train, so I’m not too familiar with how the local cabs work here. When we got to my destination, the meter showed 1791 rupees. That seemed like a lot, and I was shocked. My mom later told me that the ride shouldn’t cost more than 900-950 rupees, max. Keep in mind, it was around 11 PM, so there was hardly any traffic, and the ride took maybe about a hour and 30 mins. The journey was about 36 kilometers, and it just didn’t seem right that it cost that much.

When I tried to pay, I only had 1250 rupees in cash. Uncle took the 1250 and then asked me to send him 541 rupees via UPI which I paid. He helped with my luggage and sent me on my way.

I’m trying to figure out if this was a scam or if I’m overreacting. I’m starting to think the meter might’ve been rigged, and that’s why the driver didn’t want me to pay via UPI—it would’ve been traceable. But not sure on that since he accepted UPI for the balance payment so confused now