SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Please advice this clown. 
DATE: 2024-07-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1e36uqj/please_advice_this_clown/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm a guy from Mumbai..
Started talking to a girl I met online on a quote writing app... Things were going great...i never kept my profile picture on telegram or what's app... But she use to send me her pictures....
I tried asking her for video call she said we will meet and see eachother

So in (December 2023)
She called to Bhubhaneshwar I went by train... During the mid journey she said she can't meet me...someone died in her relatives...still I stayed ther for 2 days hoping to meet... It did not happen
When I was in Bhubaneswar second day I changed my hotel... I was kinda expensive for me to stay there and do nothing alone 
So second day her cousin sister called me and said "She can't meet you but I'll meet you for sometime"... I denied with all respect...
Then 
I came back to Bombay.... That girl promised me she will come here and meet me ....even her sister convinced me for the same ....
Next month (January 2023) she said she's coming ... On a particular day.... Even that did not happened... Her cousin called me and said she met with an accident.... 

Now 4 days back I just found out she was faking entire identify... Using a picture of an influencer.... For 10 months 
She and her cousin use to post stories on whats app using those pictures....
She even faked her Job
She claimed to be a Dean of a college in Bhubaneswar.....
She used to post about college and stuff....

In travelling,hotel booking I wasted my hard earned money 
I don't want any money... This post is not for this 

What ever she it has affected me mentally... It's a trauma...

I'm writing this post for some advice regarding what action I can take against this?
I went to BKC cyber cell they asked me to lodge a complain at local police station where I reside.... 
Problem is local police people know my family members... I thought there must be some way where I can do this anonymously

When I went to BKC cyber cell they also said 
"It's no money fraud so let it be 
It's your mistake you became a fool"
Why it's only about money?
Yes it's my mistake I fell in such trap I know 
But my mental health is affected... Even my Lifestyle
Is it so easy for people to fool others and get away with it? Is it so casual?
My emotions
My time
My mental health
Is worthless?
Mentally harassing someone for months is right?

Yes I'm a man I have a heart too!
There were multiple times when I stopped talking to that girl in past 
She and her cousin use to talk to me emotionally and everything
Same thing If a guy would do with a girl people take it seriously 

Yes still it's my mistake I did such a lame thing nobody will ever do 
But now what?
Shall I just move on? Forget?

I have a feeling that there's a bunch of people who are doing this 
Fooling around others..

I still don't know why did this girl did all of this
What benefits she got? God knows

Please advice me!
And yes I know I did a huge huge mistake I know what I have done.... Rather than trolling please guide me 

(For entire story y'all can visit my profile
And yes when I posted all of that I was unaware about she's faking her identity.... 
Just 4 days back I found out everything)