Below mail thread highlights that Elica is using illegal businesses to provide customer service. These illegal businesses don't honor amcs and elica declares them as illegal.in our case before our amc expired. We next got service directly from elica customer service, and their call center forwarded service provider failed to provide proper documents and receipts. I wrote: Let us see how far u will go for 1000 rs for ur [censored] filters that just exploded in our faces. I work in customer support too for a multi national company. Unlike you we keep our customers happy and half our customers buying our brand 5-10 times over in their life. I can definitely see that u will go to all extent to make your 10000 rs per year from customer. What an unethical and horrible customer experience On sat, aug 24, 2019, gmail.com wrote: How come ur current service provider is not ready to give proper bill? This is illegal as i said. Tommorow u will cheat thousands of customers like this and claim u don't have a relationship with them the day after. Just wait till someone posts a video o[censored]r malpractice and see how your brand is affected, enjoy spending your marketing dollars for making press releases then On sat, aug 24, 2019, 13:20elica.in wrote: Dear sir, Thank you for writing to elica customer care. Reference crm id 920154. Global export service is not a authorised service provider of elica. Our authorised service provider list is update on our website http://www.elicaindia.com/store-location-elica.aspx. Our amc can only be purchased online and we do not encourage service providers / technician selling amc Elica will not bear any responsibility for any damages or payments collected by unauthorised service providers. As a responsible company we have released public notice in toi for public awareness in this concern. We have also provide our nation-wide toll free number in advertisements, product, packaging and warranty manual. Incase you wish to buy our amc please visit our website www.elicaindia.com. To maintain your appliances please sign amc by clicking on the link http://www.elicaindia.com/AnnualMaintainanceContract.aspx Thanks and regards From: gmail.com] Sent: 23 august 2019 18:53 To: elica Subject: fwd: amc service issues This issue was never resolved, global export services went awol. We then took service directly from your call center and as you can see we are not gettting proper receipt also by "excellent services". Anyways, i don't have the patience to talk to you on the phone or argue with anyone. You can of course arrange a refund for me and that might matter. Thanks — forwarded message — From: @gmail.com Date: fri, apr 19, 2019 at 1:24 pm Subject: re: amc service issues To: Hello, We are still awaiting resolution. We have 3 repair / service per year. Kindly help resolve the issue. Thanks & regards, On fri, mar 29, 2019 at 2:37 pm gmail.com wrote: Despite repeated reminders and calls from more than 1 month, we are not able to get any service from your amc provider - global export services (Pune). Please find attached amc for your reference. Kindly help us resolve the issue as the product is not functioning properly. Thanks Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)