SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Tenant verification mandated by a gated society in Bangalore, thoughts?
DATE: 2022-03-30
SCORE: 17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/ts7887/tenant_verification_mandated_by_a_gated_society/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi all,

I live on rent, in a gated society in Bangalore, and today the society association has made a new rule for all tenants. We need to get verified by tenantverify.in to live on rent in this society. First time I am hearing of such a service in Bangalore, and I am very skeptical about sharing my info with them.

Looking at their privacy policy, it seems like they might collect a lot of sensitive data, that they say, will share with prospective landlords/employers only with people's consent. Their privacy policy's part about personal information is quoted below for reference:

&gt;Personally Identifying Information (“PII”) of a person means such information that can potentially identify you, such as your name, date of birth and address. It does not include anonymized, aggregate or statistical information. 
&gt; 
&gt;Personally Identifying Information that we collect and hold about an individual will vary depending upon the background checks required by the Client and the information the individual supplies to us. Personally Identifiable Information and Sensitive Personal Information or Data (SPI) shall have the same meaning as defined under The Information Technology Act, 2000 read with Rules along with the amendments made thereunder. 
&gt; 
&gt;Tenantverify.in does not collect any Sensitive Personal Data or Information, without due notification to you and without your consent unless it is mandated by law. We recognize the importance of PII and SPI provided to us with respect to privacy issues and confidentiality of the PII and SPI. Therefore, we collect and deal with PII and SPI in accordance with the privacy legislations in India/ other legislations and this Privacy Policy (as amended from time to time). 
&gt; 
&gt;Personally Identifiable Information about an individual that we may collect and hold includes name, age, date of birth, employment history, reference information, education, professional qualifications, residency, sanctions, immigration status, claims, judgments, insolvency, current and previous directorships, character, personal reputation, and such other checks and enquiries as the client considers necessary to verify information provided by an individual. 
&gt; 
&gt;From clients we may collect company address and the name, email and phone number of any system users. 
&gt; 
&gt;From clients and individuals, we may collect information related to conducting a background check, payment details. From the sources of our background checks we may collect the name and job title of the person who supplied us with the information. We recognize the importance of privacy issues and respect the confidentiality of the Personally Identifying Information individuals or clients provide to us. We will collect and deal with Personally Identifying Information in accordance with the local laws and this Privacy Policy (all as amended from time to time).

Like data "leaks" because of security loopholes all the time, and do we even have any consent in such things? I feel so uncomfortable going through this and might just shift to a different society.

Anyone know of that site I mentioned and has gone through the verification? How do you guys feel about such verification services?