I want to file a complaint against https://www.nirvaan.org.in/ for frauding with me and playing with my emotions and mental wellness. Because of them, I have gone through mental harassment and trauma for 2-3 months. It's a website created by Abhinav Singh who is the leader of all frauds. This man will speak very nicely to you initially, do proper follow-ups, message you, and call you to trap you in his web. He will sweet talk you, showing himself as the best friend you could ever have in life. But slowly, once you make a payment for a bigger plan, he will start showing his true colors. Once the payment is done, he will stop messaging you, stop following up with you. Occasionally, after 1-2 weeks, he might message you, else he won't bother. If I try to message him, he will reply saying when do you want to take the next session. He has listed renowned therapists name on his website with some others i am not sure are even therapist or not, but I doubt if any of them are even associated with him. The renowned names are below. Zak Vankeuren Dr. Bhavna Rawlani Zainab Fatima Zofia Neugebauer Kinisha Sanghvi Dr. Shivani khetan Dr Sarvat It started back in April or May 2023 when I reached him through Instagram. Out of the above-mentioned renowned names, Dr. Shivani Grapped my attention knowing her experience and had googled about her. But when I asked him to arrange a call with Dr. Shivani, he delayed the conversation, saying that Dr. Shivani is traveling and her slots are also not free. And so, he got my one session with Zainab Fatima who herself needs therapy to provide therapy to someone else. She was giving examples from her life, showing no interest in understanding my feelings or requirements, which pissed me off, and I broke the connection with Abhinav for some time. Later, when I moved to Bangalore, I thought of reaching him out again and asking him to connect me to Dr. Shivani Khetan again, but to no shock of my knowledge, he made some other excuses and was forcing me to take the sessions from Zenab, which I was not ready for. Then he aligned Dr. Bhavna Rawlani to me. This lady does not even exist or not, I am not sure, as she never opened her webcam while having the sessions (which as per therapy should always be open to have eye contact with the customer to try understanding their conditions). Forget her camera, she never asked me to open my camera. The things didn't end here. These bunch of frauds tried to use me mentally and emotionally and tried to grab some handsome amount from me. This right arm of Abhinav Singh, that is Dr. Bhavna Rawlani, told me she wanted to do some tests with me to know my condition so that she can work more nicely on me. I said ok, I am ready. And the test was on a piece of paper which she shared on screen and asked me to share the answers and she dotted the answers on a piece of paper without the camera on! And the results came out after days which states I would need more therapies for improvement, and both the frauds suggested that I should be taking one more test which might cost 5k and more as it will go to someone for them to analyze and all [censored]. It was their try to earn some money from me. Thankfully I said I'm not interested. But as they convinced me from the results of the 1st test that I need more therapies I enrolled myself in their 9 weeks plan and paid a hefty amount of 8100. And the day I made the payment I told him I will be traveling to Goa for a company offsite and will be back and will take the therapies. I was already in bad depression and was getting panic attacks continuously. This master of the web, the spider himself Mr. Abhinav Singh didn't call me even once until 30 days got completed (as per their policy if within 30 days I don't claim money back) they won't refund the money and this was his technique. These people make fools of their customers. They play with their emotions and weak time. They know that the other person is at their weakest point and will not understand anything, so emotionally and mentally make them fools and then if the customer comes back, they blame them that they were ready to provide therapy, but the customer did not reach out to them. Look at the audacity of this person. He messaged me saying I didn't reach out to him to arrange the therapy, and just when we go back to the initial time he was the person who was behind me like anything, used to message me almost every day for enrolling. This case is a clear case of mental harassment and I have been through trauma for 2-3 months because of this incident. I want this man to publicly apologize to me and all those people he made fools of and also refund my entire money. Misusing someone's emotional well-being for financial gain is not only morally reprehensible but also legally unacceptable. This case constitutes clear fraud and harassment, as the perpetrators prey on vulnerable individuals for personal profit. If the situation warrants, I am fully prepared to pursue legal action against both the individual responsible and the website involved. Such actions undermine trust and exploit individuals at their most vulnerable, and it's imperative to hold those responsible accountable for their actions. Their tagline says Transforming lives but to now shock they are harassing lives ****** attaching the Payment Proofs which were made Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)