SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: A simple callout to a WhatsApp scam saved me
DATE: 2024-03-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1be8lt2/a_simple_callout_to_a_whatsapp_scam_saved_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

I called out these WhatsApp scammers as "Xth English fail", pointing a simple mistake (in pic) they made and now I am kicked out of this group. xD

So this morning I woke up to 300+ unread messages in a group. I've been added randomly by somebody, and everyone was there like saying they were making money doing Amazon Reviews. I felt it's a scam. It goes like this - they claim they're from "Mazon Recruiting Tasks Group" and they want to promote the Indian Amazon products by simply browsing products and earning commissions. They claim you can "earn" upto ₹3000-8477/day via UPI by their scheme. It's simple - "for details" you PM them and they give you tasks. 

Apparently they make you pay an advance for which you get much more cashback rewards if you do their tasks. Now some of the people started putting screenshots that they "recieved" money and thanking them for giving the tasks. They share how "happy" they are as the rewards were "generous" and how they could now "buy" their favourite thing/gift. They sent screenshots of what looks like a badly compressed or photoshopped image from Amazon app.

Now that was a big WhatsApp group, around 400 people. Some had already left since they felt that's a scam group. I waited for sometime with my popcorn🍿, and there I had the chance!

So somebody put up this SS (in pic) and claimed they got the money.. Simple mistake - but couldn't hold it more. Wanted some fun🤣, so msg out - 
"So your account got DEBITED and yet your balance increased. What are you, a Class Xth English/Math failed scammer?"

Well, got kicked out of the group and the message with this SS got deleted too within like 20 seconds. Thanks scammer admins for doing me this honour.😂

What really concerns me is how coordinated this scam works, and how much roleplaying happens to convince someone. The peer pressure from those messages might get vulnerable people trapped into this scam. I didn't PMed the admins, so I don't know how layered their scam works. But atleast from messages in the group, I sensed they make you pay first in a hope of a bigger reward. Even checked these admins number on Truecaller. They turned out as just Indian guys impersonating as foreigners or pretty girls.

And even a bigger concern was, from where did they get my number from? I'm very concerned that my number circulates like these and any scammer can access my private info like that. Is there a way I can know how my WhatsApp number was compromised? Where they stole it from?

Anyways, stay safe guys.!