SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: CM Mann hits back at Centre after Shah slams Punjab govt over drug issue
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-14
URL: https://theprint.in/india/cm-mann-hits-back-at-centre-after-shah-slams-punjab-govt-over-drug-issue/2879268/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mohali, Mar 14 (PTI) Shortly after Union Home Minister Amit Shah slammed the Punjab government over various issues, including the drug menace in the state, Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann hit back at the BJP-led Centre on Saturday, accusing it of failing to take strict action following a big drug seizure at a Gujarat port.
Mann pointed out that preventing smuggling across the international border is primarily the Centre’s responsibility.
“Stopping drug smuggling from across the border is the Centre’s responsibility, yet our government is installing anti-drone systems with its own funds to curb drugs,” he said.
Show Full Article
The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader added that the Punjab government has installed anti-drone technology along the state’s 553-km border to stop cross-border smuggling, despite receiving no support from the Centre.
He questioned the alleged lack of action against large seizures of narcotics outside Punjab.
“In Gujarat, lakhs of tonnes of drugs are being seized but no action is taken, while Punjab has launched the country’s biggest campaign against drugs,” Mann said while talking to reporters on the sidelines of the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit here.
He said the entire country knows that around 3,000 kg of drugs were seized at Gujarat’s Mundra port but no meaningful action has been taken against those responsible.
“Drugs weighing 3,000 kg were seized at a Gujarat port. Why was there no action there?” Mann asked, while accusing the BJP government of failing to initiate strict measures against drug smugglers despite such large seizures.
Addressing a rally in Moga earlier in the day, Shah slammed the AAP government in Punjab over various issues, including drugs, law and order, religious conversions and corruption.
Mann strongly criticised Shah for “failing” to address Punjab’s key concerns during his visit to the state. He said people had expected announcements on a minimum support price (MSP) for crops, farm-loan waiver and a special package but were left disappointed.
The chief minister alleged that the BJP-led Centre has consistently “discriminated” against Punjab by withholding its rightful funds, ignoring farmers’ demands and failing to act on major drug seizures outside the state, while attempting to defame Punjab.
Despite such challenges, the Punjab government is taking decisive steps to curb the drug menace, strengthen the economy and attract investment, he asserted.
“We expected Amit Shah to speak on the MSP, loan waiver or a special package for Punjab, but he left after merely abusing Punjabis,” Mann said.
He criticised the Centre for allegedly withholding Punjab’s rightful funds.
“The Modi government has withheld Punjab’s rural development and GST funds, and has still not released Rs 1,600 crore for flood-relief compensation,” the AAP leader said.
He added that despite claims made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding Rs 1,600 crore given in flood relief, Punjab has not even received Rs 16 after that announcement.
The chief minister said during the devastating floods in Punjab, leaders from the Centre only visited the state for “disaster tourism”.
On the issue of gangsters, he said the Centre has “failed” to address the problem at the national level.
“Punjab gangster Lawrence Bishnoi has been given shelter by the BJP government in a Gujarat jail and he is not even being allowed to be brought to Punjab,” Mann alleged.
He asserted that divisive politics will never succeed in Punjab.
“Punjab’s soil is fertile but the seeds of the BJP’s politics of religion and hatred will never grow here,” the chief minister said.
Taking a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political ambitions in the state, he said, “In Punjab, the BJP is a ‘scooter party’ that dreams of capturing power in 2027 with the help of the Congress.” Mann said Shah’s Punjab visit failed to address the real issues being faced by people. “Amit Shah came to Punjab only to speak ill of us and left without doing anything,” he said.
Questioning the BJP’s claims regarding next year’s Punjab Assembly polls, Mann claimed that the saffron party lacks the organisational strength to contest the election on its own.
“From where will the BJP bring 117 candidates to contest the election in Punjab?” he asked.
He added that since the BJP does not have enough leaders in the state, it will probably try to induct leaders from other parties to contest the polls.
The people of Punjab are well aware of the BJP’s political conduct, he said.
“Punjab knows the BJP very well. There is no place for the politics of hatred in Punjab,” the chief minister said.
He also said it is unfortunate that the country is witnessing a situation where it appears that the Centre does not have a clear foreign policy to safeguard national interests. PTI CHS RC
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.