SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: I think I got scammed in SP Road today.
DATE: 2022-06-04
SCORE: 49
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/v4tvi8/i_think_i_got_scammed_in_sp_road_today/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, using a throwaway account coz I'm embarassed as fuck.

The plot: 
While waiting for my friend to get his laptop today in SP road i decided to do a little window shopping. I saw that there were shops that only replaced the glass of cracked phone screens. 
They quoted prices far lower than what it would cost to get a screen replacement. And I went for it. (REMEMBER: If it's too good to be true. It is true good to be true)
The guy quoted 1500 for a change in the glass (his neighbours quoted 4-5k. Again, if it's too good to be true, it's too good to be true) 
At 5pm, I was told it was it would take just 20-30 mins max. And there is only a 10% chance that while removing the glass the display may get damaged, in which case they will have to replace the entire display. For this he goes away to another place where they get it removed.
At 7:50pm they come back with my phone and the glass in another hand. They showed me that the display is now damaged and the entire thing will have to be replaced and not just the glass. I am devestated. At this point i obviously had to get the display fixed and the shops were about to close. I tell them to get it done while i contemplated how terrible my luck is and I was sulking as one of the employees was going on about something. I couldn't think clearly or concentrate on what they were going on about. Another 30 minutes later they come back with my phone and a "new display". The price for the display is now 9000 and i pay it cursing myself and my terrible luck. But hey it's cheaper than the official price and I shouldn't complain, right? 

The twist:
This is where the plot thickens. 
My battery was very very low and i could not inspect the phone properly and it was getting late.
I am now home charging my phone and I notice something peculiar. The screen burn in that was caused by me playing way too much call of duty mobile was still on the screen. 
It's impossible right? If my entire display is replaced how can the screen burn in remain!??? 
This is where i realised that they did manage to remove the glass from my previous display. They brought in a broken display to show that it wasn't working anymore. They did what they initially told they would. (Replace only the glass)
But only for a much much higher price

Please please don't let these people leave your sight when you are getting your screens fixed. 

I just really needed to vent. If you got this far, thanks for reading. 

TLDR; SP road scam - went to get my cracked display glass replaced(really cheap). Was told the display was damaged. I had to get the entire thing replaced. But when in reality they just replaced the glass but charged me the price of a new display.