Registered police complaint in the name of Mr Sumit S from billionaire group running institute of trading / stock market but reality-based stock market business, Mr sumit is a big fraud, fake cheater and cheating with innocent people's and targets old age people's.. Mr. sumit is mercy less, shame less, etc.. One of my friend Mr pavan working as a telephone operator on a contract basis in the rajbhavan governor office from Bangalore, shows Mr Sumit.. After some days, suddenly Mr sumit stopped giving our money and put our phone numbers in balcklist, he won't respond he won't be there in office so we fillied police complaint for around 2 years, not giving our principal amount. My friend pavan says he is also a client / customer like you, cant do anything when ever he gives we need to take like that..but for refereing me my friend taking his commission simultaneously..he says I don't know ..so we have registered police complaint in the name of Mr Sumit S, billionaires group on 22/12/2022..with NCR references number is 655/2022. Mr sumit for police he says his wife also an advacate before coming to police station, Mr sumit came with my friend Pavan ..in police station agreed to give after 6 months on 23rd July 2023 with interest amount of 20% atlest written in statement in police station with my friend witness Mr pavan...but Mr sumit is not giving our money back ..till now we have lot of his cheque with laps date...such a fraud company in the name of Billionaires Group..Mr Sumit S is mercy less, shame less etc.. Mr Sumit S says always his word is world, says he is in loss, crisis, income tax department freeze his all bank account etc but take his commission newly opend office in dharwad..he fools people's target innocentand mainly old age people's.. Reasons for fake, fraud, cheating person in the name of share market why Mr sumit With proof am attaching here is 1) POLICE COMPLAINT COPY: Billionaires group on 22/12/2022..with NCR references number is 655/2022. With proof, I am attaching here 2) POLICE STATION STATEMENT COPY of Mr sumit accepting to give our money back but no use till now..I have cheque of more than 10lakh. With proof, I am attaching here 3)The Cheque-Drawer signature differs. Mr sumit do by adjusting bank manager of SBI, HDFC, EQUITAS, ICICI BANK..With proof am attaching here. 4)Chatting history of whatsapp, he put our phone number in blacklist, he says he is in crisis, Account freez by income tax, No money right now etc with proof, I am attaching here. 5)I have credited him 15lakh, account details of what he has given in whatsapp.. With proof, I am attaching it here. 6)Mr. sumit whatsapp chatting history of Postponed time for giving our money, With proof I am attaching here 7) Mr. sumit CEO of Billionaires Group other people's review am going to attach here.. NOTE: WE HAVE FACE LOT OF PROBLEMS WITH THIS FRAUD COMPANY PLEASE REFERENCE MY POST WITH ALL ATTACHMENTS, DONT GET FOOL AND DONT INVEST..LIKE THIS BIG FRAUD COMPANY. IF YOU HAVE GIVEN MONEY, YOUR MONEY IS UNSECURED HE WON'T GIVE AT ALL. * We are going to file a court case for a lot of cheque bounce, etc. we will face .. KINDLY SEE THE BILLIONIRE GROUP WEBSITE https://billionairesgroup.in/..Review 🙏 Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (5)