SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Bb instant scam? What is with the scammers who are pretending to be from universities to dupe us? How do they have all our details?
DATE: 2024-03-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1b4mpsb/bb_instant_scam_what_is_with_the_scammers_who_are/

--- POST TEXT ---

So basically I bought some stuff from bbinstant and I took more stuff than what I bought. It's pretty normal too and bb instant allows u to take more stuff than what u originally took. I usually pay my dues every end of the month. So yesterday I took 400 rupees worth of stuff from bb instant and I've been getting calls non stop from this dude who says that he's from bb instant and from the due collection team. I thought it was a scam cause Truecaller had tagged it as a spam number and it was a very abnormal way of speaking for someone from a team for collection of dues also i didn't get a call from bb instant I got it from a guy named rohith. His way of speaking and talking seemed like an educated guy so I was wondering if he was actually trying to scam me or not. Also he didn't in any ways try to tell me to send him money.
 Normally I'm pretty good at finding out if the person is scamming or not but I was confused about this.
He also called me through different numbers with the names of different people but when I asked him to prove its him he showed me his big basket ID.
The weirdest thing was that he knew my full name which was so weird cause I never login to any place with my full name. He said it was from "Truecaller" but even on true caller I never keep my full name.
He also knew my gmail which was even weirder.
I called up bb instant and they said that the due collection team only calls after a week of not paying and It wasn't even a full day since I bought from the bbinstant. 
I'm not usually that paranoid but recently I've gotten maybe 10 scam calls with insane amount of work done into it. Just last week I applied to a university and I got 3 scammers who got to know my gmail,number and name just by applying my details for the college and this wasn't some fake link or website but the official websites. All across bangalore, whichever college I apply to I've been getting a scam call from a different person pretending to be the official university and it's not just me but even my friends after applying to the college have gotten scammers calling them.
ive gotten maybe 10 calls from fake UPES scammers. In this month alone I think I've talked to 15-20 scammers and normally it should be super easy to know if it's a scammer or not and i tend to block them immediately but these people somehow know my full name and Gmail and put so much leg work into doing these scams. Some scammers have made places on Google maps with the university names and given fake reviews but if u go lower u can see that there are 100s of people saying it's a scam. I am genuinely concerned if universities or companies are selling this data to random people or have had a breach of data.