SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Angi's and HomeAdvisor Scam
DATE: 2022-05-13
SCORE: 208
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/uog4zq/angis_and_homeadvisor_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, I wanted to bring it to everyone's attention what ACTUALLY happens when you enter your info into the Angi's or HomeAdvisor sites, or any of their affiliate sites.

I signed up as a contractor with them 6 months ago and have learned about how things really work, and it's definitely a flat out SCAM.

When a potential "customer" goes to the site and tries to view the contractors, they are told to enter some required details. This includes name, address, and phone number... But does NOT require them complete any information pertaining to the type of work required. They then are told this info will be used to provide them with a "free quote" from an approved contractor.

Now the sketchy part. Angi/HomeAdvisor then takes this information, without the customers knowledge, and SELLS it to MULTIPLE contractors. They will charge 3-6 contractors in your area $25-125 for the information that the potential customer just provided.

As a contractor I was told that Angi's/HomeAdvisor would handle advertising for me, and help me acquire new customers. This is ALSO basically a scam on the contractor side as well. You are unable to filter the "leads" and end up paying hundreds for false information.

By "advertising" Angi/HomeAdvisor means selling your business information to scammers in India pretending to be ad agencies, I get over a dozen of these calls every week now. They are very aggressive and quite rude.

By "new customers" Angi/HomeAdvisor will bill you upwards of hundreds a week for the details of "customers" who just wanted to look around the website and don't actually need service. Angi/HA will also bill you for "leads" that are disconnected phone numbers and fake addresses, and refuse to refund you even once proven that it was a fake lead. Additionally they will bill you multiple times for the same lead details and refuse to refund you.

When I say "refuse" I mean that they literally CAN'T. The customer service department is always very friendly, but unable to do anything at all. Angi/HA does not even allow its call center employees to do refunds if you have gotten more than 3 refunds already. That's right, you are punished for a mistake on the part of Angi/HA

If you are a "customer" of Angi's or HomeAdvisor, or have provided your details to them, be aware that they are being sold to contractors.

If you are a contractor, be aware that getting involved with Angi or HomeAdvisor is a terrible idea. You will pay potentially hundreds of dollars a week for useless information.

Thanks for taking the time to read this, I would be happy to answer any questions.