SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Zepto put my life in danger
DATE: 2025-04-14
SCORE: 237
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1jyyi3e/zepto_put_my_life_in_danger/

--- POST TEXT ---

I bought some groceries and paid via UPI to the rider’s personal account.

There were some UPI issues. When I contacted my bank and UPI, they both told me that the payment will take 3 working days to resolve and the money will be debited 3 days later. So I contacted Zepto and told them they needed to wait 3 days for the payment and they said they will be contacting the store manager and informing the rider accordingly. UPI and bank told me not to make payment without receiving declined message. I informed Zepto all of this.

However, the rider kept calling me and asking for money. Since I had raised an issue I thought they had internally sorted the issue and that the rider was harassing me unnecessarily trying to scam me. Finally today he turned up at my doorstep with other men insisting I pay them. Inspite of repeated calls to Zepto they did not take any responsibility for putting me in such a vulnerable position and harassment from their employees. When I called them in SOS they offered me ₹50 to my Zepto account! 

I came to know today that they had not sorted the issue internally and the rider thought I was fleecing him off money! He had come to threaten me because they were harassing him to collect the money. Zepto placed him in a position that forced him to my house.

PLEASE READ BEFORE COMMENTING:

———————-

Edit 1

Some more context because people claimed I am click baiting:

1. Just because the rider harassed me out of his desperation doesn’t change the fact that he hasn’t committed a criminal offence by turning up at my doorstep with intent to hurt. The only reason I did not call the police on him is because I can see he is from a financially backward situation and he is acting out of fear and misinformation. While I am at a vulnerable position as a single woman living alone I also have class privilege. It took all of me not to get the law involved. My work was interrupted and I couldn’t step out of my house the whole evening because of fear of these young men standing on my road and shouting. It was a harrowing experience for me. I repeat he was forced to do so by the store incharge. That is how the hierarchy works.

2. I did not rely on rider payment but on COD. The rider is supposed to provide me Zepto UPI Id but provided me his personal one.

3. Labour malpractices are that they put the onus on the rider to collect the money using his personal payment id. He is a very young man he doesn’t understand that he is getting into line of the fire. They did not train him adequately. Their policy specifically says they don’t use personal payment ids. I, as a customer should not be making payment to him, the rider. I can only claim refund when there is a Person to Business transaction that fails not a Person to Person. When he fails to collect the payment he bears the consequences of delayed payment not the enterprise. Then they harass him, the most vulnerable, to harass the customer to collect the payment. In such a situation the enterprise or business should bear the consequences. This is exploitation 101.

4. Next my personal data should not be used for any other purposes other than delivery. In this case the rider and a few others turned up at my house and threatened me and my neighbours. Inspite of my repeated complaints and Zepto management guaranteeing that the rider will be informed due process was not followed. This is breach of security data. All of this is in their policies which we agree before using the app. They should not allow my data for any other purposes other than delivery and the rider shouldn’t get my personal phone number which they shared with him.

5. Inspite of my repeated complaints and Zepto guaranteeing that the rider will be informed, I was in contact with Zepto and the rider throughout the last 3 days updating them both on my payment status. I made three levels of escalations over the course of 2 days and yet no resolutions and many false promises. Customer care is a scam at Zepto. Zepto has made sure that they are safeguarded when the process fails and lets the riders take the brunt of their lack of business ethics.

6. The rider turned rogue suddenly because his father ended up in hospital and he saw me as the aggressor. He is just a victim of his circumstance.

———————

Edit 2: 

I have edited this post multiple times because it is tiring to navigate through ill-informed opinions. I expected actual expertise on legal matters here not be inundated with speculations that fully digress the matter at hand.

My question is legal: What can I as a consumer do to hold Zepto accountable for the company’s labour malpractices and worker exploitations? This is not regarding this particular rider.

Especially to the men on high-horses who are quick in opinions than in intellect, spare me the mansplaining on how privilege works. Also pointless suggestions like “stop using services like Zepto” is unhelpful. Yes, mass boycott works if protesters lead with that but not as individuals refraining from converting to a consumer. As a gig worker myself, I am aware of these social dynamics and I depend on these systems for my livelihood too.

If you don’t possess knowledge on labour laws and worker exploitation, best to conceal your vast ignorance and lack of perspective? This is not just a consumer grievance question.

—————

Edit 3:

When I came to know the whole story, I compensated him double the payment due to him for the trouble he faced due to Zepto’s malpractices. Remember this wasn’t my burden to bear but that of his employer, Zepto. I wouldn’t have come for such a basic solution to “just repay the rider already” to this sub. This solves nothing and in fact, allows companies like Zepto to continue placing the burden on consumers rather than employ fair labour practices. I am not proud that I gave into the sad state of affairs and paid the rider off to alleviate my own guilt instead of holding the company I had business with, responsible for its ill treatment and disregard towards its employees’ safety. As a consumer, this should be have been my duty. From a lot of the uneducated comments that suggest I do exactly this, I am also beginning to see why such companies are thriving. We are enabling this behaviour. We can collectively do better.