SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Ray-Ban India Online Shopping - Return Fraud!
DATE: 2023-11-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/17oiy4d/rayban_india_online_shopping_return_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

While I am a bit reluctant doing online shopping of wearables, seeing the convincing note on the Ray-Ban's website (" When shopping at India.ray-ban.com you can always change your mind.
You will be allowed to return / exchange any Product that you are not satisfied with for any reason; within 7 days of receipt of the product"), 
I took a leap of faith and bought a sunglass costing ₹10369.
As the product arrived , it was bigger than expected and was not a fit for my face . I immediately went to the website and found that I need to take several images of the product and make a document in the prescribed format , to start the return .

I carefully took all the images , attached the document, filled the form and packed the product, waiting for the courier to be picked up.

Upon several follow ups on the customer care number , the packed box was picked up . 

Within 2 days of the pickup, I got a mail from Ray-Ban, that they can not refund as the product they got is damaged and have scratches.

The images of the product they provided , clearly had signs of wear and tear and has scratches all over the lens and body.

I rechecked the images I had and from the same angles the sunglass I packed for return looked flawless .

It was simply not possible that the product will get so many signs of wear and tear when I had repacked the product in the same package minutes after opening the box .

Since that day I made several follow ups with Ray-Ban to know the current status of any refund , but in vain .

My current situation is that I have lost my money to Ray-Ban , just because I tried returning the sunglass as I didn't fit me . I neither have the sunglass nor the money .

TLDR : I bought a RayBan sunglass online from their website. Didn't fit. Upon return they said they can't refund as the product is damaged . Now I have lost both - the sunglass and the money! 

Need advice on this !