Hi All, Note: I am explaining all this because I don't want anyone to fall into this trap anymore. I am middle class girl with a very low paid job who lost 4 lakh with this company. First they promised me to give all the money back, now they are telling to pay 3.25 lakh to improve credit score in the website to withdraw my money. This is cryptocurrency company whose domain is registered in Netherlands and don't have minimum things in the website such as submit button is present with no action item. Unfortunately, I have fallen into the trap in the fear of losing my money and kept on investing which i consider as biggest mistake in my life. As i said above, I am middle class girl, I borrowed money from many of my friends, now I should pay back to them which very hard for me, So please guys don't invest your hard-earned money in any of the companies like this mainly who contact you through telegram or whatsup. If you want to trade or invest in stocks, please do it yourself, don't trust anyone asking you to invest and get the money back with extra profit, yeah at first i got the money, it was just a trust-building process for which i have fallen. They contacted me through telegram, which has 24 tasks a day, for every 5th task where they ask to send the money to the merchant and a concerned person will be assigned to us to do the prepaid tasks with steps. So, what they are telling is, i have done the mistakes 2 times while doing their tasks, so the company is highly effected by me, Thats why credit score is decreased, to withdraw my money, we have to repair our credit score (which is 80, for every point 32500.Average credit score 90, so it's 325000) and they will withdraw my money and give my money back. See what happened with me, I have completely been manipulated by them in the fear of losing my money and fear of clearing my credits. Please don't believe anyone who promises you money back with profit policy, it is completely a trap and a scam which happening in telegram. Like me many people are there who are not even coming out. DO NOT TRUST ANYONE