SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Internship scam?
DATE: 2024-10-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1fycywc/internship_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Internship Scam?

Hello all, I had completed my ug degree last month and i am searching for a job right now. So i created a profile in a reputed job portal to get opportunities. I mentioned that i am interested in both internship and job. There was a call 2 days ago, from a s***** company from sholinganallor that they saw my profile and ready to provide internship.
He told me to WhatsApp my resume, mailid and college id card. Asked me whether i can come to the office tomorrow for a detailed meeting. I told him no because i am in my native. I asked whether the internship is paid or free. He told me its completely free. I enquired why are you giving it for free and they were like company is sponsoring for freshers (like marathons, code events ...)Then they told me to attend a meeting at 12 pm the next day. I said ok and attended the meeting 
I verified that it is not a scam( by viewing Google reviews of the company). And they do regularly provide internship to students. In that meeting they told about the courses that they gonna teach (java, data science...) And mentioned the registration fee is 2000. And fee is not for internship and its for resources we provide ( like id card, life time access of course , certificate, LOR , video portfolio...). The data science course is 7k. 2k for registration then on june 1st week there will be a induction program( need to pay 1k) then the remaining fees later. The internship will be for 3 months and can be extended to 6 months( 2hrs per day) and some courses are completely online. After the meeting, he called me and i said i need some time to think(need to discuss with friends) and he told me to pay before 2 pm or else the registration will be closed .i said i will call later ( i forgot to call)and then there was no call from him.

He also shared the course details (looked more genuine) and the company is also good. But why are they doing this? The company checked my profile on job portal( verified)

Did anyone face the same problem?