SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam on name of Pantheon Ventures on Whatsapp group, Only Cheating
DATE: 2024-02-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1agalrk/scam_on_name_of_pantheon_ventures_on_whatsapp/

--- POST TEXT ---

I came across one facebook ad, which connects the user to whatsapp contact starting with +44 (UK) number. Then the lady claiming herself as representative of Pantheon Ventures UK, invites to join Online Trading Group. 

Once you have joined there, you will find n number of people already joined. One of the person over there, is called as sir/teacher etc. For my group it was Sir XX and his assistant, who will share you APK File of their trading app, which is not available on Playstore. 

1. Here person , claiming himself as Stock market analyst, organizes sessions of alternate days in week on link e.g. [https://vip.fejja4.com/rk/room10](https://vip.fejja4.com/rk/room10). To join this they create your learning account and the person conducts session of 30-45 minutes. Here you will notice one thing, that his accents are not Western/Eastern/ or Indian. 
2. One will see this and find himself as landed in very safe group. Now here is their modus operandi works: 
Teacher gives you some stocks suggestions, which works like charm. This will boost confidence of the newly joined bee.
3. After some days, he will mention that this needs to be hold for sometime and has less profit as compared to Upper Circuit stocks (UC). Then he starts giving daily information on upper circuit stocks which gives you gain of 5-10%
4. Now once people are used to this, he will come with new ideas like he is travelling across globes, making some agreements and arranging quotas for the users. Users are allocated quota based on the amount they deposit. The amount is getting deposited on different account, which does not resemble with their company name. These are some persons or some shops accounts.
5. Now Teacher comes with some news of increasing quotas, and people starts depositing huge funds in lakhs. Here people are posting their profits on daily basis on groups, which are coming like 5+ Lakhs in one stock.
6. Now next earning idea comes as IPOs. Now he will give suggestions that you will earn 100%-200% money by investing in IPOs. So he explains some plans to users in meeting using above link. So he explains that he is going to do some contracts, some more quota for IPOs. 
7. His assistant says that you people just click on subscribe, and not needed to pay. Here is glitch comes. There is no way of canceling like you do in regular apps like zerodha, Groww, upstocks etc.
8. Now IPO date comes closer and assistant contact you for paying money for allocated lots. Then they keep on doing timepass based on the reason that they do not have quota available. So they keep on sending account details to send money. As money is huge, you cannot transfer it immediately using online way. So user goes to Bank for doing RTGS transfer. During that interval they again send different account numbers, which are on some shop names like SHYAMA LOGISTICS, MAZUMDAR COMMUNICATION, PANTHEON VENTURES.
9. If you say that you are unable to pay, the show you threat of credit score etc. If you have any amount in their wallet, they refuse to pay it and says that it has been allocated to IPO subscribed. You can see your amount adjusted against respective quantity. As an IPO you will never get any odd quantity, but you get an quantity in terms of lots.
10. After that you will find that group on which usual communication is used to be done, they change the settings of the group "Only admin can send message". If you try to contact any of the group member, all of them are unreachable and not replying message. So this seems to be big scam of group of people. So if you have put in lakhs, you will be cheated and will not get a chance to withdraw money. 

So this is an alert for all Indians not to follow any facebook links and whatsapp channels for stock trading. All are scams and you will get returns initially but all of your earned money will be trapped at some instance, where you cannot do anything. 

&amp;#x200B;