SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: A possible video call scam, did my horny self screwed up?
DATE: 2022-03-26
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/tnzlmu/a_possible_video_call_scam_did_my_horny_self/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, I (27m) met this person on twitter. The profile seemed fake but I thought there's a slight chance that it must be genuine as I talked to her and she was really good.

We soon moved to whatsapp. 

She said she's from Philippines but living in France, I checked the number on truecaller it does say France. 

I thought, hmm, whatever. Let's see.

We kept chatting. She said she's a currency analyser so I said okay here comes the scam. I said "alright go on tell me which crypto to buy". To my surprise, she said no, I don't want to give you any such advice. I'm not scammer lol. 

This caught me off guard. She kept sharing her images and it did feel like this is a genuine person. I shouldn't doubt them because she said a few things and when I asked for pics saying let me see, she did send me her doing those things. 

For ex, once she said she was having lunch and she did sent me her pic eating it. 

It wasn't some random image off the internet. How do I know? Because I reverse image searched it.

Now, comes the part, where I lost my logical self. She said, and this 2 at night I'm talking about, she said she's feeling a bit good because she's earned some money today in poker. I was like great. Suddenly she said do you like me? She started saying do you want to eat me and all that. 

I said sure. 

Suddenly I get a video call and alarm bells start ringing in my head. Fortunately I point the camera to my bed and didn't say anything. I saw, it was genuinely the girl. And her face matched with the WhatsApp profile pic. 

But here comes the part I'm worried about : she asked me on call, what are you doing, I said I'm sleeping.

So she said after looking somewhat irritated, yea, I need to go and she cut the call.

I asked her why she called, she started abusing me that you're a pig, don't you want to eat me? 

I realised this is one of those scams. Not the crypto one, but sexual video-money-extortion kind.

I said bye. Deleted all my whatsapp messages. Blocked her everywhere.

But I'm still a bit scared : What if they screenshot my horny messages and threaten me? Or what if they use my voice from the video call? I just said Hey, I'm sleeping, and then bye. My face wasn't visible at all.

So is there anything they can do? Can they really blackmail me? Or would they misuse my messages?

Thanks for the help. I'm posting here, because I have lived in Bangalore and I know people are genuinely helpful. 

Tldr : Had a horny conversation with a probably fake profile. Got video call from her. Didn't show my face. Realized I might get extorted, deleted all my whatsapp messages and blocked her everywhere. 

Is there anyway I could get in trouble and how to avoid it without my family finding out?