SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Time wasted by insurance and car workshop people.
DATE: 2022-07-26
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/w8ld8x/time_wasted_by_insurance_and_car_workshop_people/

--- POST TEXT ---

On 21/11/2019 my elder brother was driving back home along with my mother time was around 5:30 pm 21/11/2019 model town new delhi. A Scooty in front on him skid on turn and to save him my brother took a sharp left and hit the concerte block kept on left side of road. Mom hit the windshield and got minor injury on head but my elder brother was injured in back and herniated a disc and was in quite a lot of pain. As I was not in Delhi while this episode took place he called me and narrated the entire ordeal. After he informed me of accident I called the authorised dealership and informed them about the accident and and they towed my vehicle to the workshop the next day of accident.

After that they asked me for documents to complete the kyc along with the driving license of the person driving the car. I shared all the required documents but my elder brother could not find his driving license so i was not able to share the same with workshop people. They said the kyc will not be complete until the DL of the person driving the car is not shared we can not initiate claim.
On 26th January 2020 I came back to Delhi and on 27th jan I went to workshop to talk to them they asked me to sign doc and told me to search for the dl of the person who was driving car, without it we won't be able to initiate claim. I spoke with his senior and he also told us the same thing; to register the claim online from our end as they can't initiate claim without kyc and dl of person driving car and to share the doc asap.

We followed his instructions and we searched the entire house after coming back and luckily found the dl and promptly submitted it. 

One week later I called the workshop to enquire about the status the told me that they have got the approval and I was satisfied. 

On 28th feb I again called the workshop to enquire about status they said the approval was halted, and they asked me to speak to the surveyor. i spoke to him and he said I needed to explain the delay in intimation of docs to get the claim approved.

 I told him that the approval had been given earlier but he said it was stopped from the company’s side and they are asking for explanation on paper.
I did this and shared it with him.
After this I called him biweekly to get the Status he kept saying pending from company end, will update you on 24th jun. 
Again I called him and told me to talk to my case handler. I spoke to him and he said we again needed to explain the delay in intimation of docs with the surveyor so that they can proceed with approval. I again told him that the approval had already been given but he said that it was primary approval, however its on hold now unless you share the explanation with with surveyor to proceed further.

On 7th Aug 2020 my case handler again called and said kindly share mri reports from the accident with the surveyor so that approval can be given else case will be closed and you will be in trouble and we promptly sent it to him.

After that on 11th jan 2021 I again spoke to him and he said our technical team is not satisfied with explanation so no claim. Next day I called him and said kindly share no claim letter. He advised us to talk to surveyor for no claim. I spoke to surveyor and he shared a letter with no claim letter of time stamp 5 jun 2020.

If I was told to submit medical doc on 7th August 2020 how is it possible to issue no claim on 5th June 2020.
In the entire process no update is shared with me and no communications was done with me except on 7th August when the case handler himself called to ask to submit the medical documents.

The workshop and insurance people wasted our time and caused mental harassment. Can a claim be made?