SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: My retired father was scammed and lost  ~ 1CR by RENOWNED Banks employees. Plz help. 
DATE: 2024-03-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1bc2y0e/my_retired_father_was_scammed_and_lost_1cr_by/

--- POST TEXT ---

Posting on behalf of my friend that isn't on Reddit. 

About a year back, my father retired from his govt job. He was approached by a neighbor to discuss about wealth management after retirement. After about a week, 3 officials- Associate director of wealth team, Relationship manager and another representative from a very well known Private Scheduled Indian bank came to our house to discuss more in detail about this. My dad was interested in policies offered by the bank to manage retirement funds.

 My father had a disposable investment amount of 1 crore. The team suggested to buy a policy of 1 crore with yearly premium payment of 20 lakhs for 5 years. In the presence of the other two bank representatives, Associate director convinced my dad that balance of 80 lakhs shall be invested in mutual funds and deposits and that this was a very safe , promising way forward. Also assured that the capital is absolutely protected as this was a very big and trusted Indian bank. But later he made my dad to download a third party trading application to this end ,and made him initially invest 50 Lakh telling it was for mutual funds, but instead he used the funds to invest in currency trading. He convinced my father to invest further 20 lakhs from the balance of initial deposit of one crore in bank when he lost the initial funds. By this time, my father started alerting the wealth team of the bank through phone calls which was shot down by the team and kept assuring my father that his capital will always be protected. 

For a senior citizen being from middle class, it was completely out of his domain to understand how his funds was being utilized in the name of renowned bank. (not realizing that third party trading application was not connected with the bank in any way)
Ultimately the associate director of wealth team had lost all the capital and he absconded. Now the bank is not holding any accountability to retrieve my father's lost corpus nor is helping him get legal justice from the culprit being the employee of the bank. We took this issue to the highest level of the bank however the resolution was not in my father's favor and they used the fact of using third party application to trade the funds against my father. They acknowledged that he was a fraud but are not taking accountability for the fraud housing in their company.

I want to use this platform to reach out to anyone who has faced something similar. Also I am hoping to get advise on how to go about this legally against this Bank.