SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Can I get sued for adding fake Instagram followers to an organisations account?
DATE: 2024-05-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1d3djsj/can_i_get_sued_for_adding_fake_instagram/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am 16.

Recently, our school decided to conduct a MUN (an internationally recognised competition, although there is no central authority that sets rules for it as far as I know). Usually, these MUNs are conducted by another NGO or a Private Organisation. I was part of the Organising Volunteers and also one of the people taking part. The MUN is in July btw. They asked us to make reels and spread the message to more people to increase followers on their IG account. So me and my friend decided to use fake (disposable) emails to add followers to their account (around 50) using a website that had a free trial that allowed us to add fake followers. During this, the website did not get to know my phone number, email or Instagram username. I thought this would be useful for the MUN. I did not inform anyone of this. Only me and my friend knew. Also, there is nearly 0 chance of terminations as we didn't opt into anything that could make the website report us, the website just gave it free for account creation. The Organisers saw that the follower count increased and made some of my friends (not really friends but acquaintances from the school's other branch in our city) call everyone and ask if they had done it. So they called my friend and he just said "Yeah I and {my name} did it." Nothing more than that. Those people called me and asked me if I had done it and I kept denying it because I knew there was no way they couldn't have found out( I didn't know about the snitch) and also because I would get a lifetime ban from these activities if I admitted to it. They asked me to name another person I might suspect, and I once again said I didn't know anybody well enough. These people kept insisting they had evidence, and I was like sure, then use it. Then I found out that my friend told them (He didn't know about the consequences). So basically I'm assuming they are going to ban me now from MUN. I couldn't care less, even though I like geopolitics.

The reason they were angry about this was that their account might get terminated (in just 50 followers in 2 days?) by IG. I don't think they can sue me for this but as the termination target was an organisation, could this count as me attacking their organisation/its public image? And do they have a legal argument for this? The only evidence is the call recording where my friend says that one line mentioned in the last paragraph and our WhatsApp chats (which they don't possess). 

Am I cooked?