SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got scammed when buying a used phone, and I know the details of the scammer. What should I do ? 
DATE: 2024-04-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bug4nu/got_scammed_when_buying_a_used_phone_and_i_know/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm from Tamil Nadu. I found a used phone on olx and decided to buy. The only problem was it was located in Hyderabad. I have made purchases on the past around my state, it all went well. Not this one.

The phone is Moto Edge 30 ultra 12/256. I paid in total 31305rs (with shipping charges included).

He answered all my questions and seemed like a trust worthy guy by the way he talked. But this was such an elaborate scam he has pulled off.

Essentially, he posts on olx, I agree to buy the phone, he goes to DTDC courier and posts and pays them, then 2 days later, gets back the package saying that the address was wrong.

(I called and complained to DTDC several times, they said the parcel is not with us. My instinct was DTDC knew it was a mobile phone, so they are trying to steal it. But that wasn't the case.)

The scammer replies to me every 2 days saying that he is handling the situation, saying that he has a higher up contacts in DTDC, but will need to bribe them, so I had to pay 1000 again.

After the bribe, he says the parcel didn't go anywhere it was in DTDC only. Then he says he will go to professional couriers (paid 700), then Delhivery (paid 2100).

It was the Delhivery receipt that got me suspicious, when I searched for Delhivery receipt on Google, the same tracking number appeared. Even Delhivery Twitter team says it's delivered on 2020.

Redditors, I need your help.

I have his bank info, name, address, Phone number, imei number of phone.

What course of action can I possibly take? Unlike most lost phone cases, I feel like this has a good chance.

Note: Yes, I have made a terrible mistake, but i would like to make this right as much as possible. I may not get the phone or money, but i at least want to block it or him from doing this again. There's a lot more messages, but reddit won't allow.

Please, any help is appreciated. Much thanks in advance.

Thank you.