SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Flatmates Have Not Paid Last Month's Rent and Maintenance for the Month Prior to That
DATE: 2018-11-27
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/a0pdv7/flatmates_have_not_paid_last_months_rent_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

Scam 1: My bad luck I am sharing my flat with a bunch of penny-pinching scammers. So, here is the situation: The flat has some issues, like flushes not working in three out of four water closets and two large tiles coming out of the ground. We complained to the broker regarding this several times, but to no avail. So these mofos decided to not pay the maintenance for a month, and then for the month after that, to not complete rent altogether. Note that what we do is transfer the individual rents to a flatmate's account, and then he transfers the total rent to the owner. I have been paying my entire rent for each month, but the person responsible for transferring the total rent has:

1. Not paid the last month's rent.
2. Not paid the maintenance for the month prior to that.

The owner of the flat used to live in London but expired last month. So one of the reasons these scammers give me for not paying the rent is that that "the owner is dead".

I have decided to transfer my rent directly into the owner's account from now on. But I am worried about the previous month, as he has not received any rent for that month. How should I explain the situation to him? Fuck I can't even talk to him as he is no more. Should I talk to the broker? Should I talk to the previous tenant who lived here for many years and knows the owner very well?

One more thing, if I ever needed rent receipts for tax relaxation on the HRA, I'll be in a big hitch, right, since the rent for the last month was not paid? Fuck I am getting nervous and could not sleep this entire night. I do not want a police case registered in my name. Please help!!

Scam 2: We all work for the same firm. We can claim a refund on our brokerage. Two of these mofos asked the broker for the receipt, and got half the brokerage reimbursed. They never showed the receipt to me, and say that the rest of the brokerage could not be reimbursed as the broker had sent two receipts of half the brokerage amount each, and from a flat, only one person can claim the entire refund. Not matter how many times I asked them for the broker's number, they find some reason to not give it to me. I am pretty sure that these people took twice the brokerage from me. Nevertheless, I got the broker's number and he has agreed to send me a soft copy of the receipt. The problem is that he is saying that he cannot send one more official receipt as he'll have to pay additional tax. Is it true? How do I get an official receipt of the total brokerage from him?