SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Badal challenges Punjab CM to hold AAP’s proposed 16,000 meetings at party’s expense
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/badal-challenges-punjab-cm-to-hold-aaps-proposed-16000-meetings-at-partys-expense/2889754/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Phillaur (Punjab), Mar 26 (PTI) Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal Thursday challenged Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann to hold the 16,000 meetings proposed by the ruling AAP at the party’s expense and not at the cost of the state exchequer.
“If you do not do this, it will be clear that this initiative is motivated by corruption and not the welfare of Punjabis,” said Badal.
The SAD president was reacting to the AAP government’s decision to hold 16,000 rallies and ‘nukkad’ meetings to present its report card to people.
Show Full Article
“When we were in government we never held any rally on government expense,” he claimed.
The AAP government not only holds all rallies on government expense but also requisitions state transport buses to ferry the people to and from the rally venues, he alleged.
Badal also spoke on how “agencies” were trying to “weaken” SAD as well as Sikh religious institutions.
He said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee was “broken under a planned conspiracy to create a separate gurdwara committee for Haryana”.
Similarly, the management committees of Sri Hazur Sahib and Takht Sri Patna Sahib were taken over by the state governments, he alleged.
Badal claimed the “agencies” did not stop there. “These elements prevailed on the ‘Jathedars’ to take action against me and were also responsible for trying to eliminate me while I was performing ‘sewa’ at Sri Darbar Sahib.” Asserting that he would never be intimidated by such acts, Badal said “for me the pride and honour of the party and the ‘Panth’ is foremost”.
Laying out his vision for Punjab, the SAD chief said after his party forms the next government, it would establish food processing industries.
He also announced that a World Skill University would be set up which would skill one lakh youth every year and would have centres in each district.
Badal said Rs 10 lakh interest-free loan would be offered to the youth besides restarting an expanded ‘Atta-Dal’ scheme and raising old age pension to Rs 3,100 per month and ‘Shagun’ allowance to Rs 1 lakh.
He also announced that all farmers bereft of a tubewell connection would be given this facility and that 75 per cent subsidy would be given to establish dairy and other livestock ventures.
Senior leaders Bikram Singh Majithia, Hira Singh Gabria, Kulwant Singh Mannan, were also present on the occasion. PTI CHS KVK KVK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.