SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Did anyone else found The Family Man on Prime Videos a sloppy piece of work?
DATE: 2019-09-25
SCORE: 22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/d9513v/did_anyone_else_found_the_family_man_on_prime/

--- POST TEXT ---

Saw the first episode, it hurts to see an excellent actor like Manoj Vajpayee in the hands of an incompetent director. Right from the boat scene, the dialogue delivery looks completely fake, then his sidekick is annoying as hell, unprofessional, forcing humor and creepy with a female coworker, I refuse to believe that people who do this kind of work behave like such imbeciles.

Manoj Vajpayee left an important task in between to go to his daughter's school, when got to know that the terrorists escaped, there still wasn't no urgency in his actions, he was still bullshitting with the principal and walking down the school hall like he is going to his baraat. For fuck's sake, 3 terrorists escaped from the handover you were supposed to supervise and here you are chit chatting with your daughter? 

Then the ex-NSG, I am pretty sure that a guy who has played Call of Duty can perform much better with a gun than that fool, he can neither move nor shoot, and the use of hands to give directions looks totally unnecessary and forced. It looked like he was shitting his pants all the while, at least the girl was honest and showed like she was scared to confront those 3 men.

And then the negotiations with the injured terrorist, my god, made absolutely no sense. They could have told him that if they want him dead then they can happily wait for him to bleed to his death, and since they don't want to kill him, he can throw his rifle out, and walk out with his hands over his head. He had indicated in the beginning that he had no interest in confronting them and he was just scared for his life. There was absolutely no reason to pull that stunt. 

Overall it was a shabby job, written without any expert inputs about how things work in real life and showed the actors as clichéd unkills who briefly focus on their job and are bullshitting for rest of the time.