SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Chilas bus attack survivor shifted to Karachi for critical medical treatment
AUTHOR: ANI
DATE: 2023-12-09
URL: https://theprint.in/world/chilas-bus-attack-survivor-shifted-to-karachi-for-critical-medical-treatment/1878978/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Karachi [Pakistan], December 9 (ANI): Roshan Bibi, who valiantly took six bullets shielding her family in the Chilas bus attack, has been transferred to Karachi for advanced medical care, as reported by ARY News.
She was moved from Islamabad to a private hospital in Karachi on Friday night.
Show Full Article
The courageous woman sustained four gunshot wounds to her spinal cord and two lodged in her liver and stomach during the unidentified gunmen’s attack on a bus in Chilas in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).
Tragically, at least 10 people, including two soldiers, lost their lives, and 21 passengers were injured as assailants opened fire from nearby hills, causing the bus to collide with a goods truck on its way to Rawalpindi.
GB Minister of Interior Shams Lone explained that the bus driver, panicked by the shooting, accelerated the vehicle, resulting in the collision with the truck.
Earlier on Wednesday, terrorist group Mujahideen-e-Gilgit-Baltistan has appeared to deny any involvement in the bus attack that occurred in the Chilas area of the Diamer district of Gilgit Baltistan in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).
“I condemn the agonising Chilas incident. Mujahideen-e-Gilgit-Baltistan denies its role in the act. The organisation views it as its duty to protect Muslims’ lives, property, and honour. We want peace” said Habibur Rehman, Vice President of Mujahideen-e-Gilgit-Baltistan.
Two men along with sophisticated arms were also visible in the video which indicates the heavy presence of terrorists in Gilgit Baltistan.
Habibur Rehman is accused in the 2013 Nanga Parbat massacre in which 11 people were killed including 10 foreign foreign tourists.
In October last year, Habibur Rehman, and his accomplices had reportedly blocked the road in Thak village of Chilas in Diamer to press the authorities for the release of their jailed accomplices.
Massive protests erupted across Gilgit Baltistan after the incident. Women and children in Skardu, Chilas, and Gilgit blocked the roads and blamed the government and security agencies for their failure to act against terrorists.
Chilas is located in the mountainous area of Gilgit-Baltistan, close to the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
In recent years, there has been an increase in attacks in this area, some of which have been attributed to the Pakistani Taliban, also known as Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). (ANI)
This report is auto-generated from ANI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.