SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Why are some parents assholes?? I’m suicidal &amp; don’t know how to cope with all that’s happening. Long story ahead, read only if you have time.
DATE: 2023-04-05
SCORE: 59
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12cluz9/why_are_some_parents_assholes_im_suicidal_dont/

--- POST TEXT ---

So this happened almost 1.4 yrs back. I’ve been abused right from my childhood. I’ve attempted suicide right from class 6. 

Just a small intro of my background. My dad’s a drunkard, mom’s a sick person. Sister ran away with a total jerk. My grandma used to taunt my mom regarding the remaining dowry her family hadn’t given them. 

My entire childhood was ruined by comparison. I’m dusky and my mom &amp; sister are a little fair. Both of them used to taunt me for every little thing. My dad (being heavily drunk) used to beat me, my sister &amp; mom every night. Growing up I had no friends because of my inferiority complex. 

I used to study like a maniac just to make friends (the more marks I score, the better rank I get. When I’m a topper, classmates come talk to me). 

My mom never felt proud of me. She &amp; my sister always laughed off with our family about how ugly I looked. I hated family gatherings because of this. 

9 years ago my sister ran away with her gym trainer. She said she was going to a different city for work. My dad’s a careless drunkard who didn’t even bother to verify by going with her to that city. After almost 6 months we got to know she was just 4 streets staying with the gym jerk in a live-in relationship &amp; was 7 months pregnant. My mom was adamant in not letting her back in our home. My sister called me and cried saying she regrets cheating us and disrespecting me since childhood. She manipulated me into getting her back to home. (I’m saying my sister’s live-in partner to be jerk because he never told her he had divorced his first wife in 1st month of marriage.)

My sister on the other hand is no sacred person. She was using fb &amp; Instagram to lure in other men &amp; was having sexual conversations &amp; video chats with them. Which we were totally unaware of. My sisters partner discovered it and literally beat her black &amp; blue. He brought her to our home &amp; let her stay there for so many months. These two irresponsible idiots have a son. He doubted if it was his own son. And when he spoke bad of my family while yelling, I got into a huge argument with him for it. He used swear words against me. (This was the first time I spoke to him in so many years. He till that day didn’t know how I sounded.)

All this happened a lot of years back. Coming to present. I never trusted guys because of such a horrible background. Every man in my life was a jerk. So i didn’t want to get trapped with a man. Somehow back in 2020 I miraculously fell in love with a man. I told him my entire life story. He promised to get married to me. He was in abroad back then. He came to india for my sake, spoke to my “family” and got married to me. 

Mind you, he didn’t take a single rupee as dowry. Wherein he spent everything for me. He even paid for the hotel charges where my side of the family stayed. He shifted from a totally different city to my city right on the day of marriage with all his belongings. His mother and his side of the relatives were totally against the idea. But he risked it all for me. 
After just 1 month of marriage my husband had to go to his city for an important issue (just for a day). My mom came home to stay with me as I’ll be alone. My dad on that night threw so many of my things to the garbage person the very next morning while my mom was in my place. Half my things were in my maternal house because I need some time to arrange things in my new home. While me and my husband when to drop my mom, we were shocked. I fought like crazy with my dad. And after that fight I never went back to my home. After this my mom used to visit me for half a day sometimes.
Now after 3 months of this incident my mom casually told me over the phone call that she, my sister, her live in partner and dad went to a shopping complex and other places together last Sunday. I got frustrated because I’m a newly wed girl, I have no maternal home. Whereas my sister who did all of the worst things was enjoying her life! When I asked her my mom downright avoided me. 
I got totally pissed &amp; demanded my mom to give me my share of the money as she has given me nothing! Literally my husband paid for everything in our marriage!!
She took everything, the wedding gifts &amp; money in envelopes that people gave us!!)) 
When my husband could no longer see me yelling on phone (I was about to faint after yelling). He took the phone and scolded. He said he’s being treated like trash because he didn’t take any dowry. Had it been like her other Son in law, may be she would have respected him. 
I demanded her for my share of money. She, my sister’s live in partner &amp; my dad went to the police station the very next day to lodge a complaint on my husband for “DOWRY HARASSMENT”. Thank god the police listened to us &amp; yelled those idiots &amp; sent them back. I felt relieved only because most of our police wouldn’t believe young people they’d rather believe such old fake bastards crying. These 3 bastards went home after a great humiliation! On going home, my mom had called all my relatives saying my husband &amp; me are exploiting them for money. So now no one talks to us. No one literally cared to hear our side of the story. 
I had a really close cousin in Gujarat at the time (I didn’t tell him anything about what my family did to us because I was afraid to open up). He died on May 2022. Nobody in my family informed me. I got to know in June when I was scrolling fb ( I rarely use social media). I was devastated. Didn’t I even deserve to know that one of my favourite human being was no more? What did I do to these people?
I’m suffering from severe anxiety from these incidents. I can’t sleep. I’m suicidal. 
I cry thinking of just one thing. My husband would have been happy, had he married a girl from a good family. He would have received the proper respect &amp; treatment from his in laws. He literally spent 18 lakhs in our marriage, moved out of his home &amp; got settled in my city, he doesn’t know the local language here and seeks my help even to navigate a delivery person. I feel guilty to even look at his face. I had my birthday a few days back &amp; literally no one wished me except my husband. My mom stays just 3 streets away from our home. What sin did i do other than being born to her? I was the top in my class just so I could make her proud and have a few friends. I never got in a relationship back in college because that might disappoint her. My sister was the opposite and she got everything at last! 
Me and my husband did nothing wrong and now we’re being framed bad people! Idk I just can’t take this anymore. I’m trying to forget all these. 1.4 yrs on, the cuts still seem fresh.

Ps - please don’t be rude / sarcastic. I’m in no mood to cry again. I’m just exhausted!

I’m overwhelmed by such supportive people here on Reddit. I always thought social media had bullies only. All of you have been so kind to me. You all have restored my faith in humanity. This is giving me a hope in life. Someday I will heal. When I look back everything will make sense to me. I will feel better and make my husband feel he’s loved immensely.