I had a terrible customer experience with store manager silambaran in sangeetha mobiles tnagar branch and i would want to write a detail complaint over this experience so that other customers are aware of it. Since, i am regular customer of sangeetha mobiles, i received an sms stating that i have been credited with rs.1947 as independence day offer and i was advised to show the sms at store to redeem it. I called customer care no. To know more details about it. They informed that 447 rs. Would be instantly discounted when you buy mobile and remaining 1500rs would be added in my wallet and i could use it in future purchases. I reached sangeetha mobiles at 3:30 pm today (8/15/2020) and i wanted to buy redmi 8. Store staff informed that they had no stock available and they had to get it from their warehouse. I waited for 30 mins for the stock arrival. Staffs informed me that price was 10, 500rs. And i informed them that mobile is available at 9, 999rs in mi store online. Staffs agreed to give me the mobile at price rs.9, 999 on the condition of removing sangeetha's special 6 months warranty. I was ok with it and decided to buy at mrp 9, 999. And, then i showed the sms about independence offer of rs 1947 and checked if they would discount 447rs as per the offer. Store manager informed me that if they remove sangeetha's warranty (Rs.500) and they cannot reduce rs.447 further more. I was not sure about this scam. I was checking with him that i would be purchasing the mobile at same mrp. And ideally the offer should be applicable. Store manager 'silamabaran' was reluctant to provide proper clarification and he kept insisting me to complaint to customer care. He showed me the customer care no. [protected] which was stickered on the store entrance. I tried the no. And it was a false one and not in working condition. I left the store for purchasing other items in tnagar and decided to come back later. Around 5:30pm, i reached the same sangeetha mobile store to get the mobile at agreed price rs.9999 and there was another person seated in the cashier place. I asked for the same mobile and staffs gave me the mobile piece. I provided my personal info as per the procedure and i was close to make the payment. Again, store manager 'silambarasan' rushed inside and stopped the payment. He informed me that another person gave rs.1000 in advance to buy this piece. Ridiculous? Inventory was not properly managed in this place, there was no receipt for rs.1000 made by other person. I was furious not only because of that manipulated sms scam offer but i was waited for nearly 30 mins to get the mobile model and store manager was reluctant to sell the mobile. I was checking for escalation matrix to raise it as complaint but the customer no. Was not reachable. Store manager was keep telling me to call customer care and complaint but customer care team was not attending the calls. If any higher authorities in sangeetha mobile is reading this complaint, i request to contact me to know the full story. Sangeetha mobiles will lose their loyal customers just because this kind of customer service provided in tnagar branch. Regards, Kamal