SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: 8 months in Bangalore. From hate to acceptance 
DATE: 2024-10-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1gceau8/8_months_in_bangalore_from_hate_to_acceptance/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have lived my entire life in Mumbai, born in a small village called Moodbiduri in Karnataka, I can kinda speak kannada as I visit my village once a year. 

When I got an internship opportunity in Bangalore in such a tough market I was excited, leaving Mumbai was tough seeing my dad for the first time and gf just loosing her shit as I hoped on the bus. 
Bangalore wasn't kind to me initially. I hated it here. The street food here was trash, the public transport here was just simply underdeveloped. I remember not being able to navigate from Koramangala to Banashankari through bus. Being from Mumbai, and having the privileged to travel the entire city using public transport with no hassle, just feeling of not having reliable public transport and subpar street food instilled a sense of hate in me for this place. 
 For a couple of months that is (not that I have come to like these aspects of banglore now)

Now that it's been some months and I've finally gotten my first job here. I've kinda accepted Bangalore. No I don't feel home, but I realise I was expecting the wrong things from Bangalore which instilled the disappointment in me. 

The restaurants here are simply amazing, you can easily try authentic regional food made by the natives of that place so easily. (I am in love with Kerala cuisine)

What can I say about the weather. Coming from the humid sticky climate of Mumbai, this weather is just beautiful. Tho I end up feeling sooooo sleepy lmao. 

The gardens here are beautiful, from the lush trees of cubbon park to small gardens locally, it's nice have a place where u can just chill and relax, trust me it's not common back in my city. 

The people here are so full of ambition, I've never been so humbled. This place has filled me with a lot of courage to do well in life. 

No Bangalore is far from being perfect, yes there are some goons and idiots who ruin the image of this place, yes there are a shit ton of scams on the road which makes u doubt if being kind to people is the right way to go. But Bangalore isn't all that bad. Maybe one day I'll make friends I can hang out with here. Maybe.