SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Lawyers of India, Please Please Help Us
DATE: 2021-03-02
SCORE: 35
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/lvifvx/lawyers_of_india_please_please_help_us/

--- POST TEXT ---

Firstly, if you're going to read this, thank you very much, I have no way to make this concise, but kindly please help. Any experience in similar situations or a lawyer's perspective will help us very much

 
Last to last year we brought a house (my family) and we gave it for rent (B'luru) 

We soon got a tenant and Everything seemed fine at first. At least till the first 6-9 Months. After this time the tenant started creating chaos in the neighborhood. We heard that she started quarreling with every person in the road because they asked her to shush her dogs which were barking all night. We didn't want to get involved and we had a conversation with the tenants and it seemed to be fine until two days later when they apparently filed few complaints with the police against a house owner opposite our house for sexual assault. We were aware of the opposite house owner before the tenant came in &amp; we knew him reasonably well. Needless to say, this came out of the blue for us &amp; we were taken aback by this. 

Based on people around us, she and her husband apparently ran a dog breeding business in our house &amp; she had vandalized our property by breaking our windows and whatnot. 

By this time it was early January 2020 (Starting of COVID), we are a sympathetic family because we've been poor before, so we wanted to peacefully vacate the tenant by giving them time, so we tried having a general conversation with them and told them that the premises must be vacated in the next six months. By this time the rental agreement had expired (in fact, much earlier). We're a middle-class family and we tried doing the same thing again, got on a call, and Tried telling them that we needed the house, well since the agreement had expired. She &amp; her husband declined again, this time they were very vocal, loud, and aggressive in the call &amp; she began to threaten us by saying she'd file a sexual assault case against my dad. This time we knew we needed to take some action, so we asked people around the area who were affected to write a written acknowledgment about the problems she's causing as we knew we alone stood no chance if we'd filed a case. But the people around declined in fear of their own safety (Yes, They said that &amp; you'll see why later). The timeline is 4 months before today. We contacted a lawyer and he said to write a notice for the vacation of property and send it to them, we did, it reached &amp; we got a reply that suggested that we put them in severe inconvenience &amp; charges will be filed against us &amp; manipulation of area residents to go against her. She was paying us rent before this but on the advice of the lawyer, we sent the rent back to them &amp; we've been doing it since. So my family and tenant's family had 3-4 calls in total over the last 1yr where we've asked them to vacate &amp; they aggressively declined in all 3-4 calls &amp; ended the call with a threat in 3 calls. We are in the tail stage of covid now &amp; she is filing sexual assault cases against everyone in the area. We can't help feel responsible for all these happenings. 

There has however been a recent development, she assaulted the opposite house owner ( the one she filed the sexual assault against ), assault meaning aggravated assault, she &amp; her husband assaulted him, probably on the road (IDK tbh, it's new) to such an extent that he has a rib fracture, spine fracture &amp; several injuries and he's in the hospital now. She's already filed a case against the poor man again for injuring her. 

We're absolutely clueless as to what to do. Idk if she's running an illegal business in our house. Idk what's happening, we're scared for our lives in a way. 

A clarity: 
\- I've seen her face to face only once

\- my family has met her many times (Before this happened) &amp; since this happened, only once. 
\- Every conversation we had is recorded. 
\- We've tried legal notices, asking them politely, calls everything, we can't move them, they don't pay rent &amp; they don't move even after their agreement with us has expired long ago. And we have loans to pay so we're at a loss now while they're staying rent-free in our heads and in our home while she files cases even before she makes an action. She has probably bribed the policeman to support her 
\- We do have some links to take the help of 

how should we approach this? It feels like whatever we do, she's already a step ahead of us. We feel like we're losing our property through some scam she's pulling. 

We bought this house for my parent's retirement home, well it doesn't seem like it'll last. 

**Anyone who's has been in this situation before or lawyers, what should we do in the situation? we're scared for our lives &amp; we don't know how this all works.** 

**Please Please Please Help us. Any experience of yours can help us. Thank you!**