SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Me and my friend got scammed at Rajiv chowk metro station
DATE: 2025-01-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1i7fv52/me_and_my_friend_got_scammed_at_rajiv_chowk_metro/

--- POST TEXT ---

We were returning after attending the auto expo at Bharat Mandapam. We stopped at Rajiv chowk for some food and drink. While wondering around for food, my friend saw a PNB ATM. He told me he needs to withdraw some cash as her mom told him to. My friend went inside the ATM and I was waiting outside, at that moment a guy came around.

 That guy peaked into the ATM and asked my friend to withdraw ₹1000 from his account (my friend's account) and give him(that guy), he said in return he will UPI that ₹1000 to my friend. My friend agreed but he asked me to take the UPI payment from that guy, as he was busy at that moment withdrawing cash. I agreed and pulled my phone out for the QR. That guy scanned it but the payment failed for some reason (I didn't got a good look at his phone screen but he said it failed). After that he pulled out another phone from his pocket (I wondered that moment why this guy has two smartphones, but I didn't questioned him). That guy scanned my QR from his second phone, did something on his phone and said its done. I checked my phone and saw I got a notification about something related to ₹1000. I didn't read the whole notification, that was my biggest mistake. My friend came out from the ATM and I shook hands with that guy, then we went to catch the metro. 

After we boarded the metro, my friend asked me to transfer that ₹1000 to him. As I tried to transfer ₹1000, my payment failed due to insufficient balance. I was like wtf, I just recieved ₹1000 from that guy, how I have insufficient balance? I checked my payment history and there was none ₹1000 recieved history in recent. I checked that notification, and I found that it was a payment request not a payment recieved notification. I instantly declined that payment request.

My friend lost ₹1000 because of my unmindful behaviour. If I have checked my account at that moment when he said "its done", we wouldn't have got scammed by him. Its all because I didn't cared much and trusted him thinking, "yeah he will UPI me ₹1000, its not a big deal, I'm helping someone, look I got a notification about ₹1000 its surely about the ₹1000 that I recieved", what a dumbass I am.

I paid ₹300 to my friend and promised him that I will pay him back the remaining ₹700 slowly-slowly. He was kind enough to decline that and told me to not take too much guilt about it (still I will pay him the rest ₹700 no matter what because I promised him).

He had actually no plan to eat at the station, it was me who forced him that we should eat something before going back our homes (because my parents told me to eat something out for dinner). But after that scam I told him I'm not going to eat anything now (obviously to save money). When we reached the metro station nearest to our homes, my friend told me to take an E-rickshaw, which I didn't took as its would cost me money, ₹15 previously but still I didn't wanted to spent a single rupee after getting scammed like that (I was very sad). I went back home on foot, even though I might have walked around 3-4 kms inside the Bharat Mandapam.

Aftermath. My stomach is empty, I'm going sleep hungry at night (I ate 2 slices of pizza in afternoon at least) and my legs are hurting. I'm feeling like a fool and with immense sadness I'm writing this post. I have not intention to tell my parents about this because of, you know scolding and shit.
No wonder Indian urban societies are so low in trust. There are predator in every corner looking for prey, you just need to be a fool like me to become a prey. Its a lesson that I will remember my whole life and will be fully attentive when outside, specially with money.

I'm attaching the payment request message I recieved.

You all stay safe and be attentive out there.