SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Need a well structured plan to invest and make money with low risk high reward, for an absolute beginner
DATE: 2025-04-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1jveo71/need_a_well_structured_plan_to_invest_and_make/

--- POST TEXT ---

Prelude:

I am a 21 year old student, currently interning at one of the popular MNCs (I am from a tier 1.5 college). I earn 50k pm right now and on converting (likely), it would be 1L pm. I will be graduating around July this year, finally stepping out of the academia and getting into the corporate world properly.

During my internship until now, I have spent on designer perfumes and a Seiko diver watch (I never wanted to spend my father's hard earned money on luxuries. I wanted to own them by my own money).

But very soon I have realised, I should start spending more wisely and learn about investing. This set of 50k stipends will come for another 3 months, which I again want to spend to complete all my childhood desires once and for all (I wanna buy a PS5 and buy some PC games. Maybe a couple more perfumes, and some sneakers). But once I start earning in terms of salary instead of stipend, I'll have to be more wise to become absolutely financially independent.

Straight to the point:

So there are a few of my expectations with respect to investments and returns to consider:

1. I want to buy a luxury car like bmw 320d or lexus es300h by 28 (I have 7 years) and a good villa/mansion like home by 35. Firstly, I know a car is a depreciating asset, but yes it's basically to give an idea of where I want to my bank account to be when I am at that age, to not think more than twice to purchase such a luxury car. And secondly, for the home, yes it can sound a bit childish, but everyone have some dreams. I want to be that rich. And I think good investment can be a real game changer for turning that dream into reality.

2. I want to get into real estate, but I don't want to burn my father's money. It should be all mine. And I don't think with 1L pm for the upcoming year I can do much. I don't wanna get into loans and stuff so early. Maybe next year, but still guide me if I am wrong to think so.

3. Stock market is something I have no knowledge of except from the scam 1992 web series. So I am looking for a safer investment plan.

4. Now, I did research for some beginner guides and threads on this subreddit as well on couple of other famous investment indian subreddits. The general thing I grasped for as a beginner was to have term &amp; health insurance, and contingency/emergency funds secured first. Then look into SIP and mutual funds to start with a safer plan. If I want to go the stock market way I can study 'zerodha varsity's and start with a small amount and once I get the feel of it, I can start investing bigger. Else I can start with real estate 'ASAP' or basically people in real estate say 'the best time was 20 years ago, the next best time was yesterday' kind of stuff.

Post Scriptum:

My parents did really wise investing. They could afford for my higher studies (if I pursued abroad). But since I am not going abroad at least for now (maybe an MBA some time later from India itself, prolly with my own funds), they have their contingency, and luxuries covered (including a home and some real estate). So I should just be emotionally and physically be with them. Financially they are doing well. Now what's left to see is complete financial independence for myself, for my future wife and my child 10 years down the line.

Although I have my parents who did save really well by investing in various schemes, they did make some real bad investments or late investments. I feel they could have saved a lot more by investing even earlier like I am trying to do right now. Hence, please guide me based off my specific needs and aspirations.