SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Drive U Insurance scam
DATE: 2023-11-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/17lyary/drive_u_insurance_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Long post
DriveU Insurance scam….The app takes Rs.15 per trip for “insurance” cover. In their FAQs they have it mentioned that they will provide cover till Rs.15,000 in case of any accidents. We had used their drivers few times and were largely satisfied with them. But on 20th October we were involved in an accident near Tin Factory/KR Puram. Before starting the trip, I told driver that it is a long trip we are not in a hurry and my wife is pregnant so drive slowly. So, back to the incident, there was bumper to bumper traffic and driver tried to switch lanes from left to right a truck hit us from behind and scratched the entire driver side of the car (3panels – rear, passenger &amp; driver seat). It is a new car hardly driven 500kms. 
Now this is the first time we have been involved in a road accident and I did not know what to do. The driver insisted that we go to the traffic police station and launch a FIR. We had to attend a wedding but still we decided to first go to the Police Station. We wasted 2hrs there missed the wedding, and the only outcome was that I had to fight Truck’s owner and got 5,000 from him for repairs. I did not how much it costed but since we had a cover from the app for 15K. We thought everything will be alright the expenses should go above 20k. 
After we came back, we launched a request for the claim. The app only has a chatbot and does not have any means to contact them. We waited 48 hours but there was no response then we again raised a request in chat. They said the insurance team will be back after Dussehra and will call then and assured us that we will get the claim. When Insurance person called first thing, he said was you should have taken more money from the truck owner and then tried to imply that we will be doing insurance fraud by claiming the amount here as well as our personal insurance. We were like WTF what is the point of your insurance if must fight on the streets for money especially if your driver has no patience and is trying switch lanes in bumper-to-bumper traffic. He also lied that we got 7k from the truck owner. We also told him that if we will claim our personal insurance then we will get a zero GST bill so what are you trying to imply. 
We explained to him the entire situation he said that he will let us know by tomorrow. Within 10 minutes we get an email that the claim has been rejected, stating that all evidence proves that there is no fault of the driver. We were shocked and tried to contact through chat again asking what are these “evidences” because it’s just our word against the driver’s. They basically said it closed do want you want to do we will not be giving you anything post where you want, we don’t care. It just pissed us off to the next level. So be mindful of when you are booking from this app there is no accountability if there is an accident it basically boils down to the drivers word against yours and they do not care for their customers for any transparency so BE AWARE!