SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Silence that hurts: The pressing problems in India’s education and healthcare systems
AUTHOR: Nitin Kumar Prajapati-
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/campus-voice/silence-that-hurts-the-pressing-problems-in-indias-education-and-healthcare-systems/2894775/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

H
ealth and education—these are the two issues of key importance for India.
Parents send their children to school, believing that education may transform their family’s situation. It is only after Class 12 that the child realises Indian education is just rote learning. So, the student finds oneself between expectations and reality.
Most would not have the courage to tell their parents that their education was not worthy because the family did everything it could for access to education.
Show Full Article
There are two takeaways from this. One, people struggle to meet their basic needs when there is no access to schools or colleges. Second, even those who get access to schools and colleges realise they learnt little.
We need to first educate our teachers before educating our children. Everyone wants to teach in government schools, but no one wants to study there. This creates a vacuum for students who genuinely want to learn and understand.
Teachers often say students don’t come to ask questions, so why would they put any effort. On the other side, students say that teachers just come to classes and write down the same thing on the blackboard, rather than teaching them. This creates a loop of frustration for both the students and teachers.
Until Class 12, the education system builds a mindset that doesn’t encourage students to ask questions. When children, in their developing phases, ask questions, teachers tend to scold them. This kills curiosity, and stops students from asking questions.
Even when students go to colleges, it’s the same format. So, they realise that rote learning works in the Indian education system. They just need to get the marks.
Changing this mindset is very tough. This is the reason the coaching industry flourishes and takes advantage of students.
On health, Indians have an attitude inclined towards curing illnesses rather than preventing them.
Recently, my mother’s aunt died of cervical cancer. Our family lost her because of stigma about menstrual hygiene. Whenever she would complain about pain and cervical issues, her husband thought it was nothing and refused to take her to a doctor. Now that she has passed away, he is left with regret.
It’s frustrating when people feel uncomfortable if I talk about sanitary napkins, menstrual hygiene, and even mental health. More stigma creates more problems.
Nitin Kumar Prajapati is a B.Sc (Mathematics) student at Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, University of Delhi. Views are personal.
Also Read:
Safety or stigma? How constitutional the blood donation ban on gay men, sex workers, trans people is