SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: SBI Staff or Scammer threatened me… What should I do?
DATE: 2023-12-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18hcfjq/sbi_staff_or_scammer_threatened_me_what_should_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

SBI Staff or Scammer threatened me… What should I do?  
I received a call today from a person telling me he is from SBI Head Office, Delhi and that I am eligible for a SBI credit card with 2 to 8 lac limit. It was a private number which according to DoT (Department of Telecommunication) cannot be used for sales or telemarketing.  
So I got suspicious that this could be a spam or even scam call because I have also gotten such calls previously from individuals telling me that they were from SBI. Some of them were genuine and really offering SBI card registration but they were not working for SBI. I don’t know how does that work.  
So I told him that I had also gotten such calls previously and I’m not sure whether he is from SBI or not. I asked him if he could show me his SBI ID. He said he will show me on whatsapp later.  
Then I asked him that many people see decrease in their CIBIL score due to too many enquiries for credit card. Since I have never had any CC, would this affect my CIBIL score once it gets generated? I told him that I’m asking it because previously I had gotten many calls for SBI card enquiry and they asked my PAN card number to check my CIBIL. Then he told me, “First you go and check CIBIL score and Credit report are two different things. Sorry! you are not eligible and disconnected the call in rude way.” 
This was very unprofessional and rude. First, I didn’t even ask or request him to allot me any credit card. Second, He called me saying I was eligible for a credit card with 2 to 8 lac limited. So I called him again and confronted him on this. This time I recorded this call because I really wanted to know by reporting this to SBI whether these people really work for SBI or not. I also told me if he knows – since he is calling from a personal number his number can be reported to TRAI (DoT) and it might cause a ban for 2 years for that number. Then he told me, “Do you know who am I?”… “Let me call you from office number.” .. “Is bande FILE kholo”.  
Then I told him, “First of all you don’t sound like an SBI employee. If you are an SBI employee then this is very unprofessional. By shouting on phone , “Iski file kholo..” , were you trying to threaten me? I lost faith on SBI now.” 
And then I disconnected the call.  
Now I feel like what should I do? If he happened to an SBI staff, is it possible that he can harm my bank account any way? Or ruin my CIBIL score or credit history even before it is generated for the first time? In that case I must report this to SBI for being unprofessional in the filthiest way.. so that he doesn’t succeed in his maligned intents.  
Or if he is a scammer, I feel that I should report this number to SBI and TRAI. So that he won’t be able to use this number to scam others.  
Kindly suggest me what’s the best thing to do in this case?