SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammer spoofed number to my bank’s number and I gave them a lot of info. Lol help
DATE: 2023-08-02
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/15fwgqt/scammer_spoofed_number_to_my_banks_number_and_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

[us]

So, the title is pretty self-explanatory. I got a bunch of calls from my bank’s phone number. My phone kept forwarding them straight to voicemail. I checked my account and there was nothing unusual, but I called their customer support anyway; they also said there was nothing unusual. 

Then the “bank” number called me back. It was some guy who said that someone was trying to use my card in Miami, and they needed a bunch of information to confirm or deny the charge. He claimed that the reason why the bank employee I’d spoken to earlier couldn’t see these supposed fraudulent charges is because she was just customer service, and didn’t have access to fraud department information. I told him that the Miami charge wasn’t me, and checked the number again, and yep, it was the bank’s number. He said he had to ask me security questions to verify my identity, and I gave up basically everything. My full name, DOB and address (the old one; I hadn’t changed it yet), the last four digits of my social, the answers to my security questions, my online account name, maybe some other stuff, I don’t remember. 

At this point, the guy said he’d refund the money to my account from the fraudulent charge. He told me to check my text messages and give him the OTP there. When I checked the message, it was some shit about “confirming my purchase with Remitly.” I didn’t make any purchases to any company by that name. Apparently, it’s a money transfer service you can use to send funds to India, the Philippines, Mexico, etc.. So, yeah, obvious scam. 

I hung up on the guy and manually called my bank myself, this time to speak to fraud prevention. The guy I spoke to then said that he didn’t see any attempted charges in Miami like the other guy told me, but that he *did* see several entries for $0.00 to Remitly. He said this was likely a sort of confirmation from registering my debit card to a new app. Again, this was not me. 

So, obviously, I’m closing the account. They put restrictions on it so that if anyone else tries to use it, they won’t be able to. They’re going to send me check for the funds in the account and then close it. I’m calling their loss prevention department tomorrow for more info. 

My concern is this: some scammer has, like, pretty much all of my information. It took me a long time to clue in that something suspicious was going on. Can they hack any later accounts I open with that information? I can’t not have a bank account. I don’t know what to do. 

This scam was hella elaborate, y’all. I shouldn’t have fallen for it, but I did. I didn’t even know it was possible to spoof numbers to display as official business numbers, and they asked all the same questions actual representatives from my bank ask. They knew my name and number, who my bank was, and where I’d think charges were fraudulent (not where I live). I’m most concerned about the fact that they have the last four digits of my social. What do I do? Am I gonna get my identity stolen? What do I do?!