SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bangalore Landlord causing troubles on security deposit
DATE: 2022-10-30
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/yhj3ht/bangalore_landlord_causing_troubles_on_security/

--- POST TEXT ---

I gave one month notice to my landlord on 18th September. But he kept harassing me for days saying he will consider this notice from 18th only if he finds a new tenant otherwise he will consider it only from the beginning of next month(1st October). 
I told my broker that he should honor the contract which clearly says one month notice and has no mention of notice starting from first day of a month. But the landlord did not agree to this. Now, i vacated on 17th September because that was the end of 30 days and also got the inspection done by the broker because it was a fully furnished flat.
He still wasn't willing to return the deposit. He said he will return it when he gets a new tenant. This was a red flag for me so I consulted a lawyer and sent him a legal notice. 
Also, the agreement says that i will pay painting charges which I am willing to pay against a receipt but he wants to deduct one month rent for painting.

I had a conference call with landlord and broker to resolve this but instead he straight up asked me to go to court. And the next day he started sharing random photographs of damages in the property. He is doing this 12 days after I've vacated the apartment. I am losing my shit now because my deposit is 2.5 lakhs rupees. I did my part by getting the house inspected by broker. The broker made a video and that damage isn't there in that video. I've all the evidence to show what kind of a thug he is.

I don't know what to do. I really want to take this up legally because I'm fed up of this landlord scam culture.

Should I go to consumer court or will this be a civil suit? FYI, the landlord recently moved to Canada. Does that mean he will face no consequences even legally?

If this goes to court, approx how much money will I spend on lawyers?