SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: [India] Sai University, Chennai: Exposing their lies and deceptions
DATE: 2025-05-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1kejq30/india_sai_university_chennai_exposing_their_lies/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sai University's management has been threatening to punish students who speak out against the management. They should understand that no matter how much they try, they cannot supress the truth and the will of students. This is the opportunity for the truth to come out and all their lies to be exposed. No future student should suffer like we have. 

Here are their list of lies and other deceptive practices:

1) State of the art famous and infrastructure: LIES. 

Two buildings for six schools and ONE hostel block which are already struggling to house 350 students. Now they want to admit 1500 students. Please tell me where is the space? If we ask questions they threaten us. 

2) International faculty - 90% fraud

All those foreign names you see on university's website are all fake. 90% of them have never even come to campus. We had a very good international Professor called Professor Sherman. He is also now stopping because he can't tolerate this management and their lack of ethics. They make it look like you will be taught by all these international names. In reality. 90% local. Good ones have all left.

3) They will accept ANYBODY AND EVERYBODY that applies. 

All of what they say about holistic admission is all BS. Truth is they are desparate and will accept anybody. Even if they can't speak English. Please realise the type of crowd you will be joining if you enter this university. So many friends are suffering because they can't cope and they were just accepted. 

4) Not even a canteen or juice shop on campus.

Does this sound like a university that cares? A few months ago, 6 students went to hospital for food poisoning because university didn't check for hygiene standards for a stall they had installed. They removed that stall but now we have nothing.

5) University's mental health counsellor quit because university forced her to reveal confidential information about students. Please understand. This management can go to any level to protect their 'reputation'

6) Zero placements. Chancellor made big big promises about placements. Nothing has happened
 Final year students are struggling to get even a decent job.

7) All they keep talking about is their 'stellar board'. Narayan Murthy, this and that. What are we supposed to do with them? They come to college once a year and when they do they make students dress up like waiters and do seva to them. We have tried writing to Board members but they don't care. They have better things to do and they know nothing about what is happening on campus.

8) It takes the university close to three months to release even simple exam results. Completely incompetent.

9) 90% of faculty or staff you speak to hate the management and want to leave. Ask them why? All the good big names have already left. We used to have a great VC. He left because he wasn't allowed to work.

10) Moral policing. If you hold hands with a girl or so anything they will send you an email threatening to expel you. This is what you international university?

11) Worst/no sports facilities. Ground is like forest. So many students have been hurt playing there.

12) Not even a computer lab and they want to offer CDS program.

13) Admissions staff will lie left right and centre. They will say placements, liberal education, international faculty. Ask them questions based on above and you yourself will see the truth.

14) Student Government not recognised.

What kind of university refused to even speak with their elected student government. At least the old management would listen to us. This university treats the Sg like their enemy. A university is nothing without it's students. You have to listen to us. You are not doing charity. We are paying fees. 

If anyone can prove that even one of the above points is a lie, we will immediately delete the post and write an apology. This is an open challenge.

100% university will try to threaten us now. They will make us feel bad and say that we are ruining student lives. No sorry management. YOU are ruining lives. We will work hard and find jobs. Your bad reputation will not stop us. In fact we will use it as a strength when we go for interviews. You want to lecture us about ethics? Learn some yourself first.

Demands:

1) Immediately cap admissions for next year at 500 until more infrastructure is built.

2) Stop admitting anyone that applies and implement some quality control.

3) Construct a canteen/food shop

4) Recognise the student government and meet them regularly to discuss concerns rather than treating them like your enemies.

4) Reestablish confidential mental health counselling 

5) Build a usable sports ground 

6) Do something to stop all your good faculty from leaving. They're obviously leaving because you don't treat them well.

7) Stop lying about your international faculty and stop pretending like your Board actually does anything good for students.