SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: An IT manager has unofficially blacklisted all the candidates from Andhra and Telangana states.
DATE: 2022-08-24
SCORE: 156
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/wwq74o/an_it_manager_has_unofficially_blacklisted_all/

--- POST TEXT ---

A very good friend of mine works for one of the leading MNCs, over a period of 4 years I've had a reliable first hand account of what goes on in this particular team.

At first it was about incompetent applicants who had a decent interview performance. As if they've been coached to get through interviews but lacked working knowledge of the software they were supposed to work with. They basically required spoon feeding and were subsequently benched and advised to resign. 

Slowly but noticeably, the number of candidates like this increased, I assume because covid made it easier for them to arrange fake interviews. Many got caught trying to lip sync when someone else was answering for them over video call.

Even though they started being extra careful so that they don't end up with an incompetent person on their team, someone would still pass through the filter.

Every single one of these candidates were from Telangana or Andhra Pradesh. Hyderabad more often than not. 

The most recent encounter has hit hard and they've realised they are not paid to play CID with potentially fellow employees. So they've decided to unofficially blacklist all candidates who come from Andhra and Telangana in their particular team. 

I've been hearing about this for the better part of last 4 years. I didn't care much, I saw so many posts on this sub about the same issue, being from a different profession, I had nothing to contribute or comment.

I don't know how many Managers have made it a point to reject candidates from Telangana and Andhra, but I don't think this is a particularly difficult or unfair solution to arrive at.

Just imagine the potential loss if many more mangers/interviewers were to develop a similar bias. Telugu states would become stereotyped as the land of frauds. It would take a lifetime to grow out of it. Many would lose future employment prospects without ever knowing why. 

Its high time people made some noise about this. As I've gathered from posts on this and similar regional subs, interviews aren't the only things being faked. School and College degrees are also being faked, coaching centers and colleges are all complicit. If this is even remotely true, this would be a scam worth crores and the only losers would be hard working students and employees. 

Obviously people from this profession would know better, correct me if I'm wrong in the comments. 

Good luck to everyone studying or looking for a job!