SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Frustrated with the in-laws being thankless and a financial burden
DATE: 2024-10-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1gdwu33/frustrated_with_the_inlaws_being_thankless_and_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I (M32) got married in 2017 to my wife (F30). It is an arranged marriage and for most of the things that matter we are doing well, have two kids one boy (5 years) and a beautiful daughter (1 year).

Now coming to the question, I am a single child, and my wife has 2 younger brothers. We live with my parents, I am an engineer and she's an aspiring teacher.

It all started after 15 days of our marriage, my mother in law got sick and my wife was at her place so to help, she gave her money (the money she got from my side of family in wedding ceremonies as gift) to her father. She didn't tell me or anyone, but later her father told my father that she did so, we were fine with it because it was a tough situation and she did it to support her parents. Though I felt she should have at least told me afterwards. Her parents never tried, or mentioned giving it back to HER. Me or my parents don’t want to do anything with that money, I just feel she could have bought something for her.

Then, around 3 months after our marriage, her father asked my father for 50000 rupees as he said they have got electric bill of 60000 and he is short on money after wedding, my father gave him the money. It's been more than 5 years but no mention of that or return. Just to add, her father is not unemployed, he is a government employee, neither alcoholic nor into betting etc.

Then, around 2 years after our marriage, her father again asked my father for 50000 as her cousin sister was getting engaged, so my father in law told my dad, that he needs money for the ceremonies and to give tokens to all the relatives and all. My father again helped him. Again, after six months of the engagement, her dad said he needs 200000 rupees to give it to his elder brother (whose daughter was getting married) because he had given my father in law that amount for his daughter's (my wife) wedding. My father again helped him, despite me and my mother advising not to. No mention of that as well.

 
Then my FIL got into a loan scam and asked me to pay 65000 as he was supposedly getting loan by paying it, despite me telling him its scam, he was adamant and said I will return it you, don’t worry. I paid, and as expected the scammers blocked him. Like this he has taken almost 4-5 lakh from us in multiple occasions, but never returned a penny. 
 
Now, coming to her brothers, the middle one is HR executive, been working for last 3 years, have taken 2000-3000 from me, so no big deal. But, she keeps asking me for gifting him something on his birthdays and all, whereas I (now frustrated with her father and family) don’t want to but still do it for the sake of her.

 
The youngest brother (24) is completely useless, he left his studies after high school, quits every job after 15-20 days. He is into some kind of pills, smokes, and drinks too, whenever his parents confront him, he plays victim card, "you never paid me enough, you never gave me money to become an actor" etc. then uses emotional blackmail to convince them he is reformed, but never quits. This has been going on for 3 years now. He keeps asking me for money too, sometimes it’s like please recharge my phone, or 100, 200, 500 rupees but its like almost every month. And, his parents treat him like a 5 year old, always trusting him and laughing off his every mistake. 
 
I am getting really frustrated with all this now, I feel like telling them to F off, that how long do they think this can go on? 
I told my wife (very calmly) once or twice, that you tell me is this OK? do you think we can keep doing this? We have to pay school fees, building a new house so have already spend close to 1 crore on that anything more right now is a financial burden to say the least. But she just gets upset with it, and accuses me of not being supportive for her family.

 
My parent's on the other hand, have never ever mentioned anything about this money in front of her, so as to not make her feel embarrassed but she never appreciates this as well. 
 
Please tell me AITA for not supporting her parents like she says??