SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: West Asia conflict: Scindia slams Congress for ‘negative thinking’, making accusations
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-13
URL: https://theprint.in/india/west-asia-conflict-scindia-slams-congress-for-negative-thinking-making-accusations/2878077/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Gwalior, Mar 13 (PTI) Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday criticised the Congress for “negative thinking” during the West Asia crisis, asserting that while citizens of the country were standing by the government, the Opposition was resorting to making accusations.
Speaking to reporters, the Union Minister for Communications said that due to the successful diplomacy under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a vessel carrying oil for India has managed to cross the war-hit Strait of Hormuz.
PM Modi on Thursday spoke to Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, discussing the situation in West Asia and expressed deep concern over the escalation of tensions in the region. He told the Iranian President that the safety and security of Indian nationals, along with the need for unhindered transit of goods and energy, remain India’s top priorities.
Show Full Article
“There is a global crisis in the Middle East because of the ongoing war in Iran, and even in such a situation, while the citizens of the country are with the government, only the Congress is resorting to negative thinking and making accusations,” Scindia said.
He claimed that the Opposition always comes forward with a negative mindset whenever a crisis arises, even if it is global.
He pointed out that Union Petroleum Minister Hardeep Puri has assured that there is no oil shortage in the country.
In this time of crisis, the prime minister has maintained India’s respect on the world stage, he said, adding that the PM’s sole aim is to ensure India’s economic and spiritual security as well as the security of its citizens. PTI COR MAS ARU
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.