SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Never thought I’d be one to fall for a romance scam
DATE: 2025-01-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1hvbq5y/never_thought_id_be_one_to_fall_for_a_romance_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR : Detailed description of meeting someone online, including red flags of scam, and then feelings of gratefulness to have cut contact in the end. Always follow your intuition about someone! When they are seemingly too good to be true, they probably are.
.

Never did I think this would happen to me, but now I understand why people fall for it!

We met on this platform, and that was a huge red flag as it was. Immediately I thought “this guy is a scammer” “he just wants a green card”, but he was just so sweet. He was so quick to always prove himself, and he always had an answer and explanation for everything. He always had the perfect thing to say. I was so captivated and enthralled by his charm and intellectual mind. Not to mention how incredibly handsome he was. He never hesitated to send pictures or video call, any time of day, no questions asked. He sent me letters, he sent me gifts, even handmade gifts. He never asked me for money. He only asked for my time. And he took ALL of my time. I swear it was like I was living in an alternate reality, one where only he existed and I was completely and utterly obsessed with him (something not normal for me at all). Any and every thing I thought, breathed, slept, ate, did etc was about, for, because of him. I felt like I was going crazy defying everything I was to drop my entire life and be so devoted to him… someone across the world who I have never met in person.

It wasn’t even a year knowing him, but somehow he got me to change my entire life. He pushed me to move to a new town (away from where I was living). He got me to dress a certain way (modesty to a point where I am afraid to wear anything that doesn’t cover my butt or that shows off my figure in any way). I stopped wearing makeup, I stopped doing my hair. I lost so much weight that I was hospitalized because he didn’t want me eating certain things. I was in and out of the hospital for months. I thought I was going crazy simultaneously knowing he was the reason for my health decline, but also going to him for comfort and love. I had never felt so broken.

He would always tell me to just come to India, that I was dying here and he would take care of me. That everyone in my life let me down and now I’m too weak to care for myself, that he will love me no matter what… so many times I would lay there with my head spinning wondering if he actually meant that? Questioning my own sanity for questioning his insanity… how could someone love someone who was suddenly so sick? How could he be that in love with me having never met?

He would bash Americans, but tell me he would move here if I would trust him and marry him. He would call me a stupid American, and say how great India is, but then plan to marry and move here… he had an entire detailed plan since the beginning. It was always trying to get me to visit there for one month, marry him, go back to USA, wait for visas, then live together here. He would go back and forth on wanting to live here or live there, but I know what he really wanted.

He is an actual doctor with a real degree (I say this because it could be doubted, but it’s true). He would take me to work with him on video call where I would see him interacting with patients and other staff members. He came off as such a loving, caring, kind, compassionate person. I tried to convince myself that, even if he did just want to come here so he could make more money for himself and his family, at least he was trying to find genuine love, and he was really trying to be a good person. He painted himself as someone who just wanted love.

But I couldn’t help but shake this gut wrenching feeling that something was not right… something was very wrong, very bad about him. Clearly it affected me heavily given how physically sick I was getting on top of the constant mental confusion (was this guy the love of my life, or is he just a scam?).

I had a mental breakdown the other night. Something just was not right, and I was feeling so guilty for doubting him. He was trying to get me to meet him in another country, something he’s been trying to convince me to do for over a month now. Showing me how we can get married in any country, that he cannot come to USA but we can meet anywhere if I don’t want to go to India. I entertained the idea, but at the end of the day it’s like my soul was screaming at me to stop talking to him. I kept having thoughts that he was manipulating me, and that he was actually psychotic and not stable at all. Just all these horrible thoughts that made me feel awful for even thinking them.

I ended up talking with him about how I really need some space from him. He lets me go for a couple days (I’ve tried cutting contact three other times) before the love bombing comes in really heavy again. But I’ll tell you something. Our last conversation really disturbed me… now that I had some time to process everything, I wonder if this is something my intuition was trying to warn me about.

Never on phone call or video chat did I see or hear any children, it was always very quiet if he was at home, but in some videos there was a young boy at his house. He lives at home with his parents and younger sister. His father is ill and cannot work, and his mother and sister make jewelry (he sent me a bracelet one time), but it does not bring in much income. He is the sole breadwinner of the household. Family means a lot to him, and he would always talk so fondly of his family. Especially when I’d comment or ask about his sister. He would send me pictures of her, and I’d say how pretty she is. He would say that she is so beautiful, when he does not normally talk about any female that way (not even calling me beautiful). And when he would send me videos of his family eating dinner or them hanging out together at home, I noticed the way his sister would always look at him… I cannot post a video for you to see, but we all know that look that you give when you’re talking to someone you love, someone you’ve been intimate with. That smile, that blushing, that look that girls give… I mentioned it once and he laughed so hysterically, making me sound crazy for even asking about her. I dropped it because he ended up sending me something that had both their last names on it, and a picture of him, his mom and his sister together, saying how they all look alike (tbh mom and sister look alike, but he looks like none of them… and I doubt it’s possible he married her and lives with her parents and took her last name?).

But the last conversation we had, I don’t even remember how this came up, but it was something about marrying your cousins. I was confused on why he would mention that, and asked if that was a common thing in India? He said that your cousins are only from your father’s side of the family, but apparently it’s ok to marry from your mother’s side of the family because of biological chromosomes (female XX and male XY)… I’m like both your mother and father’s siblings are your aunts/uncles and all their kids are your cousins, and absolutely NO you should not marry them? We learn in biology how that can cause birth defects for offspring, not to mention it’s just wrong in general to do that. He went off on me! Trying to convince me that I was wrong, and that I was uneducated. (I was like you know, for how smart Indians are, you think they would want to breed more prodigies, not risk defects from mating with relatives?) I hate when he would call me a stupid American. I ended up actually having to go, and this was one of the last conversations we had.

Anyway, I have cut contact with him for a week now. I was friends with him on social media but not any of his family. I didn’t even know his family had social media because I never thought to ask. Somehow his father pops up on that “people you may know” list and I have to click on it to make sure, because I knew his name and had seen him on video call etc (he accidentally said one time how proud his dad would be if he actually found an American to marry, but then immediately took it back saying it wasn’t what he meant, that his dad would be happy because he was happy and found someone he loved to marry)… not only is it his father, but there is a picture of him (the guy I was talking to) holding that young boy from the videos, pictures where they are both smiling. It isn’t just a playful picture, it’s a very loving picture, it’s a very proud picture… that little boy who he said was his nephew, when his sister is supposedly not married and doesn’t have kids? (Wait, is that actually his son?)

Maybe I’m overthinking because I’m still very confused about the relationship I had with him. Maybe my brain is just trying to piece together a reason to have not trusted him. I would hate to assume or accuse someone wrongfully, so I feel bad even admitting this all right now. I don’t know what happened this past year knowing him. It seems like such a blur now that he’s been cut off from my life. I have so much physical and mental healing to do because of it… I’m not mad. I am a little sad and obviously very confused feeling, but to be honest, I’m content with whatever it is now moving forward. It’s over. I have thought about him some in the last day or two, but I’ll never get the truth or anything good out of contacting him again. These last few days I am finally eating again, I’m able to actually sleep at night. It takes time to break a habit and create a new one, he used to be the only reason I’d check my phone, now I just need to remember what it’s like putting the phone down. It’s comforting to know I’ll never get another message from him (I don’t have to anxiously wait for it, because it’s never coming). Whoever that guy is, he was toxic for me, and I am so grateful to be away from him. Big lessons learned!

Thank you for reading my story. I had a lot to get off my chest.