SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Beware of Fraudsters in Hyderabad
DATE: 2022-07-26
SCORE: 68
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/w8cj42/beware_of_fraudsters_in_hyderabad/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am writing from my personal experiences. On 23rd July evening around 7:30 pm I came across a stranger standing on road side near Baghlingampally cross roads with his bike and he asked me for some money stating that his bike has little trouble and need to repair it and it amounts to 650 rupees. He said he ran out of money and has no balance in Gpay aswell. But as I am a student had only 500 rupees in my Gpay and sent it to him thinking that it was genuine case ( He looked like one and it was rainy day). Though he promised to repay the amount to me the next day, he didn't do it so far and is not answering the call aswell. So keep in mind this incident of mine and make decision if you encounter any such situation.

A few months ago I met with a similar situation where the person claimed he has health issue and needs some medicines ( as I was in a hurry then I gave him 200 rupee cash and showed him the way to medical shop). But to my surprise I found the same guy doing rounds in the same colony asking money from other stating the same reason in the next week. I tried to catch him that day but he identified me and ran away. 

I trusted other guy for the second time as I had Gpay number of him and was sure that I can call him over the number and get my money back. I have 2 of his mobile numbers and can share it in private message if anyone can take action on such people ( I am not worried about my 500 but want to prevent further scams).

Lessons learnt : NEVER GIVE MONEY TO STRANGERS ON ROADS. But my concern is what if the situation is genuine. I don't understand why people do such creepy scams as it will result in no help to actual cases.

What would you have done in such cases. I think my hastiness to help people is suppressing my intellect in asking questions and pressing for better measures. I request your help to tackle such situations in future and also warn you to consider these situations of mine and make your decisions aswell.