SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Haryana women’s panel summons rapper Badshah over ‘Tateeree’ song; FIR lodged but doesn’t name him
AUTHOR: Sushil Manav
DATE: 2026-03-06
URL: https://theprint.in/india/haryana-womens-panel-summons-rapper-badshah-over-tateeree-song-fir-lodged-but-doesnt-name-him/2872014/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Gurugram:
Bollywood rapper-singer Badshah is facing heat in Haryana over his new Haryanvi folk song ‘Tateeree’, with an FIR registered at Panchkula’s Cyber Crime police station and the Haryana State Commission for Women summoning him.
Haryana State Commission for Women Chairperson Renu Bhatia confirmed to ThePrint that a complaint had been filed
over the song
and
Badshah had been asked
to appear before the body on 13 March.
The FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint filed by one Abhay Chaudhary, a resident of the Chandi Mandir area. The case has been registered under Section 296 of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) 2023 and Sections 3 and 4 of the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986. Sub-Inspector Deshraj has been assigned to investigate the matter.
Show Full Article
But the FIR does not name Badshah
and has been registered against an unknown person.
The song ‘Tateeree’, released on 1 March on Badshah’s official YouTube channel, has already crossed 4.4 million views. It features the voice of Simran Jaglan, a boxer from Kaithal and daughter of Haryanvi singer Karmbir Fauji, known for the popular song ‘Paani Aali Paani Pyaade’.
Also Read:
A ‘stay within limits’ warning sparks tensions between UP women’s commission & Kanpur Police
What the complaint says
In his complaint, Abhay Chaudhary alleged that the song contains objectionable words and scenes. The song shows girls in uniform in a school-like setting referred to as “Badshala” — a play on the word “Pathshala”.
The complaint flags lyrics that go: “
Aaya Badshah doli chadhaane, in sabki ghodi banaane
“.
The complainant argues that these lines have been used in a sexually suggestive manner alongside visuals of schoolgirls.
Chaudhary demanded that the song be taken down and that strict legal action be taken against Badshah. “Such people should be put in jail so that others are deterred from making such content,” his complaint states.
Separately, complaints filed by Savita Arya, president of Panipat-based organisation Nari Tu Narayani, and Shiv Kumar of the Shiv Aarti Foundation prompted the women’s commission to act. The commission has asked Badshah—whose real name is Aditya Prateek Singh Sisodia—to appear at the DC Office Conference Hall in Panipat at 11.30 am on 13 March to present his side.
Haryana Education Minister Mahipal Dhanda called the song unfortunate, saying it was “defaming Haryana’s culture”. He told media in Chandigarh that the authorities were trying to identify the school where the video was shot, as well as the driver of the Haryana Roadways bus that appears in it.
Several people have posted the song on X and demanded action.
Aditya Goswami, who describes himself as an “ordinary INC worker” has posted, “Deeply disturbing how rapper Badshah has portrayed schoolgirls in a song that openly promotes obscenity. Lyrics like “
aaya Badshah doli chadhane, in sabko ghodi banane
” are not just vulgar, it’s completely unacceptable.”
Deeply disturbing how rapper Badshah has portrayed schoolgirls in a song that openly promotes obscenity. Lyrics like “aaya Badshah doli chadhane, in sabko ghodi banane” are not just vulgar, it’s completely unacceptable.
@NCWIndia
@police_haryana
pic.twitter.com/JFh6kLVBhR
— Aditya Goswami (@AdityaGoswami_)
March 6, 2026
Rupsy Saini, who describes herself as a “Mad Hindu”, wrote on her X, “The Women’s Commission should take cognizance. Respected
@RenuWBhatia1
ji, Respected
@EduMinOfIndia
Mahipal Dhanda ji, please take notice. “Aaya Badshah toli chadhane, in sabki ghodi banane”.
She added: “These are disgusting words. In the opening scene of the song “Tittari”, schoolgirls from
#Haryana
are shown carrying bags on their backs. Gut gun gut gun kare ae tittari, mhare mandere pe boli ae tittari” As soon as the song begins, the girls…who were ready to go to school…put their bags aside and start dancing. But in the very next scene,
@Its_Badshah
enters with his rap where he says: I’ve come to mount the group and make all of them my mares. His name is Badshah, but his actions are… Where are the
@cmohry
administration,
@NayabSainiBJP
khaps, and the 70 sarpanches now?”
The Women’s Commission should take cognizance.
Respected
@RenuWBhatia1
ji,
Respected
@EduMinOfIndia
Mahipal Dhanda ji, please take notice.
“Aaya Badshah toli chadhane, in sabki ghodi banane” 😡
These are disgusting words.
In the opening scene of the song “Tittari”, schoolgirls…
pic.twitter.com/9S0Ft2WvWi
— Rupsy Saini (@ZiviiBloom)
March 6, 2026
(Edited by Gitanjali Das)
Also Read:
Haryana women panel summons Ashoka University professor for remarks on Op Sindoor, women officers’ role