SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: I tried selling my furniture on Facebook marketplace and…
DATE: 2023-06-30
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/14mxqwt/i_tried_selling_my_furniture_on_facebook/

--- POST TEXT ---

… almost got scammed. Thankfully I’d already gotten scammed this way a few years ago so I knew what was happening and didn’t go through with the transaction. 

Here’s what happens:

You might be selling something on Facebook, or maybe you’ve searched for a store near you on Google. For me it was a liquor store I found on Google the first time.

1. They’ll act like a regular buyer/seller, move the conversation to WhatsApp, maybe even talk on the phone

2. They’ll haggle a bit to seem real but not too much- they don’t actually care about the final price. The better price for you is actually also better for them because you’ll be excited to close the deal. 

3. They’ll ask for your UPI ID and send a QR code asking you to scan it and receive a small amount of money as a test. It’ll work. Then they’ll send you another QR code but instead of receiving the money, you’ll be sending it to them. 

4. At this point they’ll either block you and disappear or they’ll say they didn’t receive the money and you need to try again, there must be a glitch. The latter only happens if they think you’re very dumb and are not getting appropriately angry. (What happened to me the first time). 

What I did this time it happened: at step 3, asked them to send the money to me directly without me having to scan anything first. They say they have a merchant account and can’t do it. Insisted that they do it anyway, in this day and age there’s no real business that won’t pay you directly from your QR code or UPI ID. They claim that they do all their transactions this way. Doubled down, told them I’ll call off the deal if it’s not a direct transfer or cash. That was the end of it. 

I know this scam is really common (and old) but the fact that people are still attempting it makes me think that someone must be falling for it. Has this happened to you or someone you know? 

As proud as I am for dodging this scam after losing a lot of money the first time, I’m still stuck with a room full of old furniture. Let me know if you have any suggestions. 

Stay safe! 🤑