SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Caller at 2:00pm today claims some illegal stuff on my name sent from Mumbai to Taiwan has been seized.
DATE: 2024-04-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bx7wxz/caller_at_200pm_today_claims_some_illegal_stuff/

--- POST TEXT ---

Okay so at around 2:00pm today i.e April 05, 2024. I(M20) received a call( the number seems of an individual from Tumkur, Karnataka as +918166XXXXXX) claiming to be from FedEx.

The computer generated female voice claimed that my Parcel has been returned, I thought probably that's my PAN Card which I applied for recently or it may be from Indian statistical institute, Bangalore as i recently applied for one of its programs.

And then i pressed 1 to talk to the 'customer service executive' who then ask me to wait till he check about the parcel. He then claims that the Parcel isn't of 'receiving type' but someone sent it on Name, aadhar card and phone number.

I asked him about the parcel details to which he replied that the parcel has been sent from Mumbai to Taiwan on my name ( he tells me my real name) and he then claims that the police has seized the parcel as it contained some illegal stuff inside to which I got scared as I don't know how to react to such an information on my name.
And I never in my life travelled to Mumbai.

Okay then I asked him about the tracking I'd which he gave me a 12 digit number, but it's not working on the FedEx website. 
And after all these conversation i thought of turning my call recording on( as i turn it off because I rarely receive any call) and as soon as I turn it on and my smartphone starts something like "Call recording has been turned on" the caller hung up.

Okay so I am 50-50 sure that it was a fake call but I am very scared as well because this is the first something like this happened to anyone who I know.
Also as a Muslim I think I am more vulnerable.
I have only focused on my studies all my life as I want to have a good future for my parents and sisters and the society. 

Anyways what should I do now?

(Police thing I haven't thought of as My family never went to the police station EVER yet it's 100m away from my home)