SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Biker Injury scam!
DATE: 2024-03-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1bo4pqa/biker_injury_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just got scammed (I strongly feel) for 3k in Chrompet , So this guy comes aggressively on his bike and I yield way to him but suddenly stops me and asks me to stop. 

 
Him : You didn't put indicator and I am hurt on the flyover 

Me : Nah , I followed my lane 

Him : No , (Proceeds to call people on his phone and threatens me) I got hurt on my leg would've fallen down from the bridge. All because of you. 

Infact , he kept threatening me that he will call people and all. Even ready for police station and all.. 

After some back and forth and discussions and showing him my wallet (Again stupid from my end). Finally , he settles for 3k for his bike damage (It was a grey royal enfield , I even have the number of bike) and leg damage. I felt that maybe I was at wrong and could be my fault. So I proceed to go to the ATM and withdraw balance amount. He didn't accept gpay/UPI. But sure shot , he is a fraud as he started walking all fine and had another altercation with a car in sometime. I think he did follow me through till my house. 

Points to note : 
1. Start the bike once altercations are done , Don't stop and give money. Better to stop outside police station - Subconsciously I stopped outside police station and he dragged me out of there. So pretty sure he was aware. 

2. Don't do cash transactions - If asked money and you feel you're at wrong - Play the UPI card. Tell him you'd transfer money rather than handing over cash (He looked like a goon so thought no altercations let's just get the hell out of here! On hindsight very dumb move) 

2. In such cases , go to the police station directly - For the interest of time and uncertainty i tried settling (Feel like a huge idiot now) 

4. Go with your gut - My gut said I didn't do wrong but my dumb brain thought what if I am wrong... 

&amp;#x200B;

I've seen such scams happen against cars but with Bike feels like a whole lot different now. Regretting losing money :/ 

Takes some money to learn about a scam I suppose.