SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Shocking violence in and around Delhi!
DATE: 2023-08-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/15gdwt6/shocking_violence_in_and_around_delhi/

--- POST TEXT ---

There has been a score of posts on this sub about the recent violence in Nangloi and Gurgaon/Mewat etc. I am shocked and appalled at the state of affairs we are witnessing but i am equally surprised with the reaction of people on this sub. 

While the role of government and the failure to stop the violence in Delhi and Haryana is necessary, many of y'all are shifting the focus from root cause of this problem. Pinning it on BJP or elections or Modi is not gonna solve this issue. Politicians and parties have time and again tried taking advantage of communalism but they are not responsible for the religious divide that is very much present in our society. 

The focus is totally on the aftermath of what was a very unfortunate incident. People are talking about burning of a mosque and a shop or Monu Manesar or hate speeches but totally overlooking the fact that stones, bottles of acid and weapons were stored on rooftops since past two days. The planning to stone and attack was underway even before rally was taken out. Monu Manesar was not even present in the rally. The problem lies in that district itself. It is one of the lowest ranked district in India in terms of education, infrastructure, development and safety. It is 80% minority dominated area where police, teachers, officials refuse to be posted in. There are camps of illegal Rohingya migrants in Nuh. You just can not pin all this on government or a party or someone else. The blame lies on the people there too who have fallen prey to religious fanaticism and herd mentality. Two young Hindu guys were taken out of homes and slain in open daylight. I refuse to believe that this is just political and not religious. 

This is my point of view and you may think differently. I do not support or vote for any of the political parties in North India. I am humbly requesting you all to also acknowledge the religious fanaticism and geographical hegemony of the people of Mewat, the history of which goes long back to incidents related to criminals, cyber crimes, attacks on Dalits and mobocracy.