SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Dating a man&gt;1 year and found out he is married!! 
DATE: 2024-05-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ct6qae/dating_a_man1_year_and_found_out_he_is_married/

--- POST TEXT ---

I (32F) have been dating this guy 34M for a year. A year ago, We met on a dating app in a certain city where I was working temporarily(I was on a sabbatical and working with an art festival) and he was attending a friends wedding. We ended up connecting greatly on music and whatnot and spent 2 nights together. He then returned to his city but pursued me. I had a job offer there and then we met again. And soon, though I didn't take the offer and returned to my hometown, it turned into a long distance relationship. 

We took trips and met in his city and other places , for about a week each month but we always stayed in luxurious hotels, mostly paid by him. he was super loving and attentive and everything I dreamed of. He earned well and established this story of how he travels between his hometown and city of work frequently. Now I can see that it was blatant love bombing. 

The first 6-8 months of our relationship, I was also smoking up(h) and then quit. Pretty soon, I slipped into anxiety and depression and have been pretty low since some months now. However, we still continued dating. His availability kept decreasing. I felt things were off/was doubting he is cheating on me but I kept thinking it's me and my anxiety that's telling me these negative things. I did ask him such questions directly and ofcourse he would deny them.

I would blame and hate myself for being depressed and not being able to talk/be a "good girlfriend " on our calls. He would call me only on his commute to the office or gym and somehow, I was so in my head, I didn't even notice. The calls before sleeping were almost none, by now. 

2 weeks ago, I caught him lying over a small thing and the got hurt/a bit alert. He apologised, gave a reasonable excuse and I let it go. I once video called him out of the blue and he wouldn't show me his home. I was sharing this with my friend, who hinted that he maybe married and after some checks, I just found out yesterday that he is married since 2016. And has a 3 year old kid. 

He doesn't know I know yet. I have pictures, WhatsApp chats as proof. And all the hotels we have been to will have both our id proofs. 

Is this a punishable crime? To have hid his marriage. Does it count for fraud/scam/sexual abuse. Do I even file a case or just disclose things to his wife(I have her number and email). I want to confront him in personal but I think that emotional release may be even more disturbing. 

If I file a case, how does it look going ahead? I just really want to punish him and now, im realising he may have done this so many times before to be able to be so smooth at this. 

I have no clue what to do. I have been so deep in depression and so ashamed by it. I am realising how badly Gaslight i was for a year..I am also figuring out my next career step since the sabbatical, have been working on design projects and my self esteem has dipped majorly. 

 I thought I finally found the one. I thought I'll be marrying this guy. And get away with it!!!! HOW?! I'm unable to process what's happening. 

Note: Yes, I'm in therapy. Have been for more than a year, looking for another therapists. Have also consulted psychiatrists for meds, one of them diagnosed me with ADHD but I'm unable to get over my fear of meds. I want to get better without them( yes, exercise, yoga, sleep, meditation )And I'm trying. But so far, I am having a hard time being motivated to do anything.