SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Congress slams BJP govt over curtailment of Goa assembly session
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-17
URL: https://theprint.in/india/congress-slams-bjp-govt-over-curtailment-of-goa-assembly-session/2881387/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Panaji, Mar 17 (PTI) The Goa Congress on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the BJP-led state government, accusing it of using the election Model Code of Conduct as a pretext to curtail the budget session of the assembly, denying Goans their right to accountability.
Goa’s budget session was curtailed on Monday following the enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct for the April 9 bypoll to the Ponda assembly constituency, necessitated due to the demise of sitting BJP MLA Ravi Naik.
The session, which began on March 6, was originally scheduled to continue till March 27.
Show Full Article
Before the session was adjourned, the state budget was passed in the House.
Addressing a press conference at the Congress House, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) vice-presidents Tulio D’Souza and Sunil Kawthankar said that the government was unable to face the Opposition’s grilling.
“By curtailing the session, the government has deprived the people of Goa. Our MLAs were raising issues of public concern, but this corrupt government chose to silence the debate. Leader of Opposition Yuri Alemao, Quepem MLA Altone D’Costa, and Aldona MLA Carlos Ferreira exposed them thoroughly,” Kawthankar said.
He pointed out that while bypolls are underway in Maharashtra and Karnataka, their assemblies had not been curtailed.
“If bills had been introduced, the BJP’s loot through Section 39A (of the Town and Country Planning Act, which allows land conversions) would have been stopped. Hence, they curtailed the session and passed the budget illegally,” he charged.
Kawthankar further highlighted the denial of reservation for students from the Other Backward Classes (OBC) community in postgraduate medical seats at the Goa Medical College and Dental College.
“The government isn’t keen on giving OBCs their rightful share,” he said, lauding the LoP’s stand.
He also dismissed Chief Minister Pramod Sawant’s claims about Goa’s Happiness Index.
“People are frustrated, and youth are jobless. The reality is the rising frustration index, not happiness,” Kawthankar said.
He claimed that the government has spent Rs 677 crore on events since 2022, including Rs 13 crore on the Viksit Goa, Viksit Bharat programme, amounting to Rs 22 lakh per minute.
D’Souza alleged that the government has failed on all fronts, especially in financial management.
“Goa’s debt has crossed Rs 35,312 crore as of January 2026, with no plan for redemption. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) guidelines mandate that debt should not exceed 22-25 per cent of the GSDP, but Goa’s ratio has touched 34-35 per cent. This is disastrous for the state’s economy,” he warned.
He reiterated the Opposition’s demand to scrap aggregator guidelines and protect the interests of traditional taxi owners.
“They are our ambassadors, and their livelihood must be safeguarded,” D’Souza said. PTI RPS ARU
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.