SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank account frozen due to p2p selling. Last p2p transaction was of sale of 6000rs worth of USDT and that was the only money i have in that bank account. So can someone hep me in solving this issue, what would happen if after reaching out to my bank i couldnt unfreeze the account andleft it as itis?
DATE: 2024-08-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1eh1bx6/bank_account_frozen_due_to_p2p_selling_last_p2p/

--- POST TEXT ---

I got the message that STOP has beeen placed on your acc XXXXX for the reason partial stop by cybercell- SBI . And after doing some research online i concluded that it occured because of p2p crypto selling on BYBIT . Please would anyone give me advice on how to solve this isssue. Most of my selling was of 2000 to 2500 rs worth of USDT per transaction and only to people who have completed 200-300 orders in the past month. In total i did 13-14 selling transactions and my last transaction was of 6000 rs, after that last transaction STOP was placed on my account. I did the crypto buying through my debit card on bybit app and selling on p2p through upi. So now on to my frozen account, i only have 6000 rs on that account and i will visit the bank tomorrow to solve the issue. So how do i consult bank so that my issue can be resolved easily without any further complications and in the worst case scenario that the account remain frozen(read about other p2p related cases where you have to visit police station and stuff) will it affect my opening of other bank account in diffferent banks? Also if it is realted to scam money from which scammers buy the usdt from you(read in other p2p related posts) and i cant do the lengthy procedures of visiting other states police station because the amount is too small for that (concluding the time waste , travel expenses) can there be a FIR against me???????? My only profit was of around 500-600 rs and it got me in this trouble . Please give me suggestions and tips on how to deal with this.......