SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Confidence trickster scamming vulnerable old women
DATE: 2022-11-11
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/ys1i7v/confidence_trickster_scamming_vulnerable_old_women/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mom lives in Hyderabad, with my brother, while my dad and I live overseas. She has a debilitating health condition which requires her to go to the hospital multiple times a week for treatment, and we want her to have a bit of independence by letting her take cabs to move around. 

About 10 years ago, one of the cab drivers who was about the same age as me (\~20 then and \~30 now) started to befriend her, and would drive her to the hospitals and started taking care of her. It was somewhat nice to know that she had a trusted face who would drive her to the hospital and back home safely. It also gave my brother (a doctor) a chance to focus on his work and not have too much to worry about since someone was there to drive her safely. 

At some point thereafter, the relationship between this person and my mom changed to where he became a caretaker of hers, including him spending nights at our place. Given that my brother had night shifts, she would allow this person to sleep in the same room as her, and start giving him access to all the finances as well - e.g. he knew how to operate her bank etc. We were not aware of this. 

In the last 5 years, he has convinced her to give him over 15 lacks in cash and also a similar value of amount in gold. Potentially more, since \~ 15k or more each month is unaccounted for from mum's bank account. The excuse has always been that someone in his family is sick and she pitied him, and would give him money. He was also able to construct a narrative of the family (dad, brother, and I) not caring for her, therefore leaving her to fend for herself, and that without him, she'd be dead. So, she feels that she's indebted to him. 

Recently we needed some cash for travels, and that's when we noticed that cash (we kept a small amount of US currency at home) was missing (\~ $4000), and when we went to the banks, noticed more currency in INR as well as gold from the lockers was missing. This was all taken out in cash, and given in cash, none of it was a bank transfer. Despite the fact that the money has been given to him, our mother still has the opinion that he did not scam her, and that she was genuinely helping him. 

We suspect this person is scamming others in Hyderabad as well, and are seeking advice on what we can do to try and recover the money and stop him from doing this to others. There is no proof that he has taken the money, and our mother believes that he's the only person in the world who cares for her, which makes this situation worse. This is because she thinks of him as the trustworthy person, and us as people who don't understand the dire needs of poor people. 

Tldr: mum befriended cab driver who took over 3o lacks from her, and we don't know what to do.