SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: I Know This Is Not LegalAdviceIndia, I Am Just Venting
DATE: 2022-10-14
SCORE: 26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/y3txtv/i_know_this_is_not_legaladviceindia_i_am_just/

--- POST TEXT ---

It's a TIFU and kinda scam story with threats mixed in. Sorry for the verbosity. I had made a post on LegalAdviceIndia but didn't have the heart to follow through with the plan they proposed. 

 
Few weeks ago, my wife and I went to a lawyer. We were having some fundamental issues and thought divorce could be on the cards. That's a bit of a personal problem. That's not why I am here.

The lawyer told us that he would get the divorce done in 2 months time. We had to give him our documents, sign a form, pay 15k for a start and then he would file on next working day (2 days later). We signed the form and told him that we would think about it and send the money + documents if sure.

Long story short, we paid the lawyer 15k when we reached home. The gravity of the action set in after this and we called him again to say that we didn't want to actually go ahead. We checked with him if he could return the amount as no actual service had been given (except consultation). He said we would see about that. He then stopped picking up my calls. We went to his office/house again and his wife spoke through a window informing that he had gone to the police station (couldn't see her, the window was perpendicular to us). His car was parked downstairs so it was likely that he was home. It was Oct 2. 

I called using a good samaritan's phone. He picked up this time and asked me to come to the police station. I reached there in 40 minutes. Now he said that he had already left. 

He then stopped picking up my calls again. In the next couple weeks I called him using someone else's phone and he said he would talk on some other later date. 

Fianlly, he said he would return part of the 15k I paid him. BUT,

* I would have to go to court and sign some exit formality form(s). 
* Then he would return the amount partially. How much? He would consult God and then decide.
* I would also have to give him the id cards of my father-in-law and mother-in-law (?). He was returning some amount only because they were both lawyers. 

I agreed to his terms and asked when I could come to the court. He told me to call again next day to confirm. When I called, he didn't pick up. 

At this point, I really didn't care for the money. It was frustrating that I knew the person who ilegally kept my money but I decided to let it go. All I would do was give him a 1 star on google.

Within 10 minutes of me doing just that, I got a call from him. He said that I was using different identities by using different phone numbers to call him. And that I had committed a cyber crime by putting the 1 star on google as my profile didn't have my real name. The next call will be from the police he said. Not sure if he will follow through but he used lawyer words and threatened me.

In hindsight, we fucked up at step 1. We used google maps to find the lawyer. He had 4.5+ stars. Now when I see those reviews, it's clear that 90% are paid reviews by profiles with less than 5 reviews.