SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam or not, I'm really confused
DATE: 2022-08-05
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/wgrgcl/scam_or_not_im_really_confused/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was going through my instagram stories one day and this account came up in the ads with the username "cromestore.in". It has around 3.5k followers, and sells Apple product combos for a REALLY cheap price. One of the combos I was interested in was one that included the following:

1. M1 iPad Pro 12.9 inch 1 tb 
2. iPhone 13 Pro Max 1 tb
3. Airpods pro
4. Apple watch series 7
5. Apple pencil
6. Magic keyboard for the iPad

All this for a price of 50k INR, which is already frickin mind-blowing. I started talking with this person thinking I'd just have a lil bit of fun. I asked him how he places the orders, and he said he places the orders on Amazon, to our addresses, once we pay a 30% advance. Once the order gets "dispatched" on Amazon, we pay the remaining 80%. He then proceeded to share screenshots and video recordings from his phone of his laptop screen, of various Amazon orders he had placed for other customers.

I asked him how he managed to get these products for such a cheap price, to which he said he had contacts in the US, who bought fake credit cards off the dark web, and used those to place the orders for him. This was something that I had seen very often with other instagram scammers, so this was another red flag. But the screenshots of all the Amazon orders seemed legit.

I asked him if he would agree to COD, where he pays for the order beforehand, and I pay him the agreed upon 50k once it gets delivered. He did not agree to this, and instead agree to bring the initial deposit down to 20% instead of 30%. 

He provided the instagram id of his previous customer (who I suspect to be his employee). I talked with him, and he said this was the first legit guy he met, after getting scammed 4 times before. He had ordered a similar combo, and received all the products. 

So do help me fellow redditors, I'm really confused. There is a voice screaming in the back of my mind, saying that it is a scam, but I don't want to have the feeling of regret, missing out on such an amazing offer.