SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My 76 year old Dad just got scammed for 145k and is financially ruined. How can I help?
DATE: 2023-07-28
SCORE: 653
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/15c1gr3/my_76_year_old_dad_just_got_scammed_for_145k_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

Ok buckle up and sorry for the long context but I figured it would help to vent as well as give as much info as possible. My parents are both retired and on a very fixed income. They were trying to eliminate unnecessary expenses like subscriptions and they decided to try and cancel their Microsoft 365 Subscription which was around 70$ annually as I had shown my dad how to use Google sheets. 

My dad googled "how to cancel Microsoft 365" and called a phone number he found (obvious mistake). He then got tricked by the Indian sounding man over several days into allowing access to his screen (which he has done before for geek squad and other legit companies) to help with computer tech issues when I am not around to help. The malicious scammers took over his computer and while he was away moved money from my parents HELOC account into his checking and then told my dad that they had credited his account but due to clerical error had accidentally deposited 70k instead of 70$. They were very crafty moving that money because it looked to my dad like what they were saying was legit and they had over deposited him money. They asked my dad to run to the bank and get certified bank checks to be sent to Chinese names which they said were the "accounting dept at microsoft" This was all 10 days ago and my Dad literally got certified checks and took them to chase to deposit them. 

I wish it stopped there but they told my dad the initial transactions didn't work and he needed to do it again so he went through this same process yesterday to a total sum of 145k, The entire contents of their checking and savings accounts + maxing out their Heloc. The only reason they caught it at all is my dad was talking on the phone about sums of 70k$ and my mom overheard and unraveled the threads. 

My mom is devastated as we are facing 2 realities. 1) They are financially ruined. 
2) My dad is clearly mentally compromised and vulnerable and will have to be removed from all potential attack vectors and much of his independence will have to be reconsidered. 

When the cop came yesterday to take the police report, she actually answered my dads phone and talked to the scammers for quite some time to try and get some info. My dad was still defending the guy, and saying "he's just trying to help us out" which clearly demonstrates to me that he is confused and doesn't grasp the gravity of the situation or how badly he got duped. 

So the banks have frozen their accounts and attempted to stop the payments but after meeting today with the fraud people at Keybank they are being told the money is gone and there are no coverages or protections in place due to the nature of the transactions. I CANNOT believe they didn't flag 4 transactions summing 145k over 2 weeks with certified checks to foreign names from a 76 year old frail man as suspicious. They asked him what it's for and my dad said Business. 

This is all so devastating and I am left helpless and seeking a way to help. We are moving to report to the local FBI office. Is there anything else I can do to help them? I have read enough of these threads to know that recoverry scams will be coming my way so I will just ignore my inbox. But please share any insights, ideas, resources or anything that might help our predicament. 

Thank you in advance reddit friends. 

FUCK SCAMMERS.