SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Woman Vs Delhi Police: A painful realisation that nothing has changed
DATE: 2023-11-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/17r7u81/woman_vs_delhi_police_a_painful_realisation_that/

--- POST TEXT ---

The context:

Yesterday night, tenants in a neighbouring building were having a party and BLASTING music from their speakers from 10 pm onwards. My windows were rattling!

 At 2 am, I had had absolutely enough and decided to take action. I checked online and found a Delhi Government initiative where you can drop your sound-related complaint and get swift redressal. I had low expectations but put in the complaint anyway.

I immediately started receiving automated follow up messages acknowledging the complaint and then sharing the car and mobile number of the personnel who was dispatched to look into the matter- I was super impressed! 

I waiting till 2.30 am but nothing happened, obviously :) So I called the number given and spoke to a policeman who said ‘Han meine beat cop ko bheja hai’ and so, I waited some more. I called again at 3 am and got the same response. Called again at 3.30 am and told them ‘I am trying to get your help as a good citizen of this country and you guys are not supporting me. If you won’t help us, who will?

Mind you, the music is still rattling my windows. Clearly he felt some type of way about my statement because then, he himself decided to come check the situation out (Because I was being insistent).

The build up:

At 3.45 am I got a call from the policeman who I had spoken to, saying he was in my locality and to guide him to where the music was coming from, which I did.

Soon, the music stops, lol. And the cop calls me back saying he’s sorted it out and goes on a tirade about finding women drinking at the scene. I didn’t give any reaction.

The crux:

So, he starts asking me where I work. I thought it must be a protocol question so I said I work in Delhi only. He immediately asks ‘Where in Delhi?’. I was vague like ‘Oh Vasant Kunj area’ so he asks ‘Vasant Kunj mein kahan?’. Now I’m starting to freak out so I change the topic and say ‘Mein apne father ke company mein kaam karti hu’ 

He’s like ‘Acha…waise kal mujhe Vasant Kunj mein kaam hai toh jab vaha aunga toh…apko mein call karta hu phir?’

I was so upset and felt unsafe and scared. There was nobody at home that time. I tried to think on my feet and responded with ‘Han mere husband bhi honge ap unse bhi mil lena’ 

If you had any doubt about his intentions, the next question will clear it up- So he’s like ‘Oh…apke husband abhi apke sath nahi hai?’ So I said ‘Vo travel kar rahe hai’ and then I just told him it’s late and ended the call.

Parting thoughts:

It’s 2023 and women in India are still having to refer to their brothers, father and husband to feel like human beings and command basic respect from men.

This policeman turned a progressive initiative by the Government into an avenue for harassment. And he’s got my phone number so now I’ll spend the next few days afraid of every unknown phone call.

This is a small glimpse into what it’s like being an unmarried woman just trying to live her life peacefully.