SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Girl I met through my uncle for Arranged Marriage threatening to file a case after refusal to marry (Karnataka)
DATE: 2024-03-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bb4wi8/girl_i_met_through_my_uncle_for_arranged_marriage/

--- POST TEXT ---

I (29M, from Udupi Karnataka &amp; working in USA) met this girl (25F, from Udupi Karnataka) via an arranged marriage setup from my uncle last month. She was matching all my preferences and we had been talking for over 6 months. It was almost too good to be true. I was happy and we were moving in the right direction so upon being asked I told her I would be willing to look at the possibility of marriage. Since the beginning she had maintained a traditional posture and only had girls as her friends. She wasn't very educated but I had no issues since she was willing to relocate with me to USA. Last month I found out that she isn't as simple as she seemed. I came to India to meet her and we met twice. Due to pure luck,, I found out that she had been attending some classes to "trap a rich US based guy". 

Along with my younger sister I tried to find out the truth about these covert classes. She roped in a friend and I paid for a few classes. They taught everything from "cleaning up social media" to maintaining a "traditional image" in front of guys. To my utter shock there were girls as young as 19-20 yrs old attending those classes while biking away with their boyfriends after the so called "image cleaning" classes. Anyway, the girl I was seeing seemed to have followed the instructions to the dot and now I wasn't even sure who the hell was I courting. Strangely enough, despite being so "naive" and a "crybaby" she actually had the smartness to dig up a very hidden conference video of mine given by me a long time back representing my older company. She knew everything about me that was available online. Almost seemed like someone else had dug it up for her as part of bg check or something. So this dummy friend that we had sent to the "marriage classes" told us how the girls are taught to hide stuff about their medical conditions, past, family history of mental illnesses and even the fact that they have/had "guy-friends". Personally I have no issues with any of these factors &amp; I m only looking for a genuine person. Most girls attending those classes seemed to have come from broken families n it's quite common in my culture for people to have bad/abusive marriages so I had no issue with that but it made me mad how they used this fact to leverage their life. 

The girl I was seeing seemed to have no qualms in setting abroad with me leaving her mother alone in India despite being an only child. But my egoistic mind at the time allowed me to believe she was smitten by me only to later on come to know that I was just a "prey" who fell for this bullshit too easy. 

By now I was convinced after giving a good number of days on this investigation that everything about the girl was fake. Even though our extended families knew each other since decades, no one was aware of her true self. Once a long time back on a VC I had noticed a very small moisturizer bottle kept in the background that belonged to a famous five star hotel chain that my company is tied up with. I had asked if she had ever been there and she dismissed saying it was just something she got from a friend. At that time I obviously didn't pay much attention as it was a small thing. Now something just ticked me and luckily I have a very close school friend working for that hotel chain who I asked to simply check if there is an identity of her in their database. Yes, I am aware that's not right and he didn't retrieve any data for me but did inform that her ID existed in their database. He didn't tell me her booking details (not sure if he didn't have access or didn't want to risk). I know what I did was horribly wrong but I was desperate to find out. I asked her in different ways if she had been to Bangalore for probably a wedding or some event or anything at all but she refused having been to Bangalore anytime in the last one decade. I confronted her about attending those "marriage classes" and she outright denied saying those were just "cooking classes so she could prepare my favorite dishes" LOL. I discovered that her mother was a schizophrenic (this was hidden from me) but she still claimed that she had told me. 

Finally, I told her that I was not interested in marrying her and hell broke loose.

Note: I SWEAR I had NO physical relationship with her of ANY kind. She threatened to file a case of fraud and refusal to marry on me and my family. She spread lies in her side of the family saying I tried to forcefully kiss her and get physical when we had first met in person. This is not true at all. I wish we had met at a proper hotel where there were CCTV cameras to prove the same but we rather met on a beachside so there is no proof of my innocence. Yesterday, a family relative of hers, a police inspector marched into my house and confiscated my passport threatening to put me in jail. 
Now, a number of our mutual relatives are whispering that I am this perverted guy who only is trapping simple girls from their hometown. I will get my passport back today but I can't leave the country as I am worried for what they will do to my family and besides they have threatened to lodge FIR. 

What should I do guys??

OFF-TOPIC- I was in a relationship some years back with a beautiful kind girl for 2 years but we broke up because she wanted marriage and I was willing to marry only someone from my home state. Something tells me this is Karma for me as she was there for me always and breaking her heart probably made me face this situation today. I at least was lucky enough to have been loved by her and having known her well I know she had all the qualities. I recently got in touch with her and she is still not married so we kind of started talking again. Her dad is an army retired personnel and a powerful person politically. He will definitely be able to help me get out of this situation but should I really ask for his help? Also, I have discovered feelings for her again and I am afraid she will judge me now. She really is the only person I know with some good connections but don't want to again jeopardize my chances of marrying her. 

The current experience has left me scared to death about Arranged Marriages. What should I do guys?? Any good recommendations for lawyers here??