SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Booked for an event which is non refundable but the customer support executive has been behaving very unprofessional/using foul language when enquiring about stuff. What are my options ?
DATE: 2023-12-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18sxgar/booked_for_an_event_which_is_non_refundable_but/

--- POST TEXT ---

I booked several single tents for the New Year event at Deccan trials, outskirts of Hyderabad. We paid half the price for 15 people and remaining was due to be paid on the Christmas day. But unfortunately due to medical reasons (One of the member had to undergo surgery suddenly) and 2 of them had to drop out because of that. Few others dropped as well because they were friends of the guy who had medical emergency. Now because we paid half price for 15 people, the organiser agreed on the 25th to adjust it as full price for 7 members and block the tents accordingly. We were fine and well as that seemed reasonable.

But now the lead contact was the guy who had surgery so i tried taking over as legal contact for this and when i try reaching out the organiser has been behaving very weirdly, ignoring messages for event little queries (Mind you i texted on whatsapp so was just waiting for them to respond back in their free time). But the organiser messaged the main person who initially booked and informed of us creating confusion and spoke as if he was doing us a favour for letting us adjust the money for 7 people. I rang him today evening to inform him about how i would be the lead contact and asking him to message/connect with me, for which he replied very unpleasantly. This led to an argument and I am not even sure what has happened to him, he started abusing in local language telugu. 

I'm now having second thoughts due to the substandard and unprofessional behavior of the sales and customer support team. I am very triggered because we have paid a good chunk of money for one night event and even though I want to just call it off because of their behaviour, I don't want them to have last laugh and have all my money without event serving us what we paid for.

I want to see if there are any legal ways / complaints I could make to the bank to get my money back as I have huge suspicion this could be a case of fraud/false event as their tone has completely changed after the full payment for 7 people was done.