SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Fake threats from ex
DATE: 2025-02-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1iw5uo2/fake_threats_from_ex/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I am 26(M) in Bangalore - I met this girl at a social event. I told her I like you &amp; would like to date if you are not interested let me remove myself from your life, to which the girl responded "Let's be friends" &amp; I said no I am not interested &amp; recused myself from her life. She contacted me again &amp; asked me to come to an event to hang out. I put my arms around her shoulder &amp; she calls me "You are a woman abuser, you look like you beat women up" - mind you, till this point, we have not shared a physical space alone &amp; we have known each other for only 10 days. 

She had a miscarriage / planned abortion with her last BF, who did not support her &amp; she had to go through it alone. She cries all the time thinking about the lost child. So I was ignorant of these things, thinking it was her trauma response. 

This girl, says she wants her cats to have a different place for a day, comes &amp; crashes in my house. I slept on the couch &amp; gave her the room, she invited me inside, and we got cozy. We started dating after that, I felt guilty since I made a girl feel unsafe - which was not the case, still out of the goodness of my heart, I gifted her something &amp; said I was sorry. She has sex with me on the day I gift her. A few days later I asked her if we were dating &amp; she told me - I feel unsafe, I fall sick when I kiss you - so my body is rejecting you. We had a big fight, we broke up - I went to her place to talk it out, and she started calling me a stalker, sexist, rapist, and abuser. 

Every time we went out &amp; took pictures, she always asked me to delete them. These were just selfies &amp; she threatened to file a fake rape complaint if I don't delete them. I did. Next time we patch up - she tells me I won't call you BF, I will only marry you. Then a few days later, she broke up with me.

Then she kept me unblocked, replying, sending me pictures, and nudes - I told her to stop talking, just block &amp; leave. She was not listening to it - I texted one of her friends to talk sense to her. She texted all my friends saying - " he is a psychopath, scary, etc etc"

We patch up, go for a trip to Gokarna, break up again, patch up, break up. She screams at me, shouts, comes to my house, and slaps me, never paying for anything. Tells twisted stories to mutual friends to paint me bad. This girl even brainwashed me into thinking I raped her. She said yes, she undressed herself, and she never said no, or physically resisted at any point. 

Just like in the first scenario, I thought I was at fault &amp; I apologized to this girl multiple times, over multiple emails &amp; phone numbers. This is my only mistake - this comes out as online stalking/harassment. 

This girl also sends an email to my company with all the screenshots. 

Now this girl, claims that we never dated &amp; I am harassing her just for the sake of it. She made me apologize over text making me admit things &amp; is now threatening on social media that she will file a complaint. 

How can I navigate this with no proof? Can I get a lie detector test? Or file a complaint that this girl is threatening a fake rape complaint and coerced me into admitting that over text?