SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Myntra Different Product Recieved
DATE: 2024-01-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18vf3ps/myntra_different_product_recieved/

--- POST TEXT ---

I ordered two pairs of Levi jeans from Myntra on December 7. 
Levi's Slim Slim ( A )
Levi's Straight Fit ( B )
On December 13, my parcel was delivered. When I opened the parcel, the jeans were totally different from the ones shown in the photos, so I thought they were fake. I immediately registered a complaint with customer care. They asked me to upload photos on the Myntra app, which I did. I told them that I didn’t want a refund; I wanted an exchange. They said okay, but I had to wait 48 hours. I agreed to wait. 

On December 15, I got a text message that my query had been solved. I checked the Myntra app and it said that they would pick up my item and refund my money. Instead of exchanging, they raised a refund. I didn’t want a refund; I wanted to exchange the jeans for the ones shown in the photos. 
So I called customer care again and asked to speak to their supervisor. He refused and said that their support team had decided that they would refund my money and not exchange it. I told him that this product was fake, it was not the same as the photos, it was totally different. In frustration, I told him that I would complain to the consumer court. Then I hung up the call. After that, I cancelled the refund request on the Myntra app. After two days, on December 17, I saw an option to exchange the jeans. I thought that if I exchanged these jeans, I would get the Right ones (the ones in the photos). I exchanged one of Levi’s products ( A ). 
On December 19, I got the exchanged item, but I was shocked. It was again the same jeans. The delivery guy told me to call customer care and say that I wanted to exchange my product and change its seller. I called customer care and told them the story. He said it's not possible to change seller and told me that their backend team would re-investigate it and I had to wait another 48 hours. I’m so frustrated. Why do I have to wait more? 

Here is the product link for which I exchanged: http://www.myntra.com/mailers/bottomwear/levis/levis-men-slim-fit-low-rise-light-fade-stretchable-jeans/21926916/buy ( A ) This is proof that I got a different product from Myntra. Its material does not match what Myntra has mentioned, as you can see in the image. Even the branding is different (I received Levi’s Red Loop jeans).
 The second product - http://www.myntra.com/mailers/bottomwear/levis/levis-men-straight-fit-stretchable-jeans/18973638/buy ( B )
This is a different product from what I ordered. The material does not match, and the manufacturer of the jeans is different. In the photos, you can see that it has four buttons instead of a zip, but the one I received has a zip. I don’t know why they sent me a different product twice. I only want the jeans that I ordered, not any other product. I have been waiting for 13 days.

 Seller Name - Vision Star Customer care keeps saying they sell authentic products, but I know that’s not true. But I received a totally different product from what I ordered. I'm attaching the image for reference to what I received. I'm tired of waiting. I demanded they send me the same product immediately. I want action on this. 

So after this, I exchanged the product again, but still received a different product. I told him I didn't want a refund. I want to exchange products. They told me this is the seller's fault, so why do I have to suffer? I ordered during the Myntra EORS Sale. I want them to send me the Right product or please change the seller so I can get the same product that I ordered.

On December 18, I submitted an exchange request for Levi's Straight Fit Jeans ( B ). The jeans were delivered on December 23; this time, I got the right product. 

So only one product left which is Levi's Slim Fit Low Rise Jeans ( A )so I complained on X (Formerly Twitter) and they responded that I'll get a call from their case manager. Later, I received a call and told them this is my 3rd time exchanging; please do something; I want my right product. They assured me that this time you'll get the right product but you have to wait till January 31st. I checked the Myntra app this time they cha5nge seller ( Vision Star to Levi's ) .. Earlier They had refused that the seller would not be changed but now They changed it.
I kept asking why do I have to wait more? They Keep Saying It's part of the process..
I agreed to wait.

 On December 30th, I received the product but again it's different. I'm so frustrated why do I get a different product again? This is not my fault; why do I have to suffer this? Myntra should send me the right product. I am so frustrated; 

Compensation for Mental Agony and wasting my Time

I got these jeans in 1618 INR
Normal price without sale is 6500+ INR

Now what should i do ?
I already complained 3 times in consumer court but no help .