SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: HOW TO HANDLE SCAMS FROM WEBSITES ...
DATE: 2017-05-03
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/68wowb/how_to_handle_scams_from_websites/

--- POST TEXT ---

Alright ... I am a Gullible Gus apparently because I ordered supplements online that I came across while looking for items to help with my sluggishness. A pretty website told me that they had sample deal for $4.95 and $5.99 for my "ULTIMATE ALPHA EXTREME" and "EXTREME BLACK NITRIC OXIDE FORMULA" 

----- NOW FOR THE SCAM ... what they do not tell you is that you have 10 days to call some number and cancel or they will charge your card an additional $92.49 and $92.99 for the balance of the cost of what they sent you ... oh and it get's better. Also, apparently it's a subscription, so they'll be charging you every month $197 for these magic capsules. when you go to the website: http://www.ultimatealpha-extreme.com/ and look under terms ... there are none that specify any of this. Why? Because it's a landing page that passes you through to their cart ... and in those terms and conditions they have it hidden. 

----- BUT THEY WOULD MENTION IT IN THE CONFIRMATION EMAIL, RIGHT? Except they never sent one. The products came and the labels are blurry and I fear for what's actually in them. They can say whatever they want on the label ... they have a disclaimer saying the FDA has not approved it ... so basically they are pills with contents which could be anything ... ANYTHING!

----- When I noticed the charge. I immediately contacted my CC company, and in their dispute resolution department, they conference called in the merchant and recorded it. The polite Indian woman representative for the merchant knew her one point, one I would not concede. 

----- Here's how it went: 

Rep: It's in the terms.

Me: What terms? I am on your website ultimatealpha-extreme.com, I can read you the terms verbatim if you'd like. There is no mention of subscription or $200 fees for the product.

Rep: Not on that site.

Me: OK - then what site are these magic terms on? 

Rep: The site where you made the purchase.

Me: I don't have that site ... I never received a confirmation email either, it's not on my credit card bill ... so what magic site is this?

Rep: The one where you made your purchase. 

Me: Great, give me the address for that site and show me how in the buying process I clicked the button for it to be a subscription and my acknowledgment that I must cancel in 10 days or be charged $200.
 
Rep: I don't have it and it doesn't have any of those. When you purchase, it's automatic. 

Me: So then how am I to know how to cancel if you do not give me any information that this is a subscription or needs to be canceled? 

Rep: You should of read the terms. 

Me: The terms on the site that you don't have and I have no clue where it is. But not the terms from the website where I clicked purchase from? 

Rep: Yes. 

Me: No. 

Rep: Let's meet halfway, we can take off one of the charges. 

Me: No. 

Rep: Then I don't know what you want me to do. 

Me: I want you to fully refund both charges immediately or I will dispute them with my card, have them charged back costing you money and find your merchant bank and complain to them as well. After that I will smear your name on every scam website out there and make sure when you are googled, Scam comes up first. Is that clear enough? Now put me on hold, grab the approval of your boss, and give me my refund transaction numbers and the exact amounts. Thank you ... 

Rep goes on hold, comes back 30 seconds later ... 

Rep: Your transaction numbers are ... 

Do not be bullied or lied to by any website that tricks you into getting your information and then charges you outlandish charges for non-agreed amounts.