SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Money stuck with RTO Agent
DATE: 2024-03-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bo52mx/money_stuck_with_rto_agent/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi All,

TLDR - Had Bike RC transfer work, gave the last 10% work to RTO agent. Before leaving to US, gave him money and doc copies to get the work done. Now the money is stuck with him and I stay in US. Need help to take legal action on RTO Agent.

I had to do a bike RC transfer from Bangalore to Hyderabad. I started the transfer work by myself visiting RTO. I roamed around RTO for couple of months 😩 and finally transfer was 90% done. Bike got transferred under Hyd RTO, but new TS number needs to be allocated. 

During that time my US Visa was approved and had to leave India. As I was in hurry to leave to US, I gave the relevant docs copy and money to RTO Agent, who promised that work will be done in a week. During the week he said that my tax challan was expired and many other refunds that I get, and asked me to pay money to get these refunds. I was occupied with too many things and naively sent money to him (around 30k). He kept postponing the delivery date, he hasn’t given me receipts saying that he submitted them to RTO and waiting on them. Finally I had to leave India and he promised that he will courier the card and receipts to my house in India.

After too many follow ups, he had finally completed the number change after 3 months of initial date, but the money 25k rupees he is supposed to return to me is still pending with him after 6 months! I have called him almost daily to weekly basis during this time and he has kept postponing. In retrospect, I’ve realized that there have been many times he lied to me on record to take money from me and gave too many false promises.

He even abused me with bad language as well. I don’t have anyone in India that can go and check on this, most relatives/friends just want me to forget &amp; move on. I’m not too concerned about that 25K, B”but I don’t want that guy to just have a free pass after committing fraud with me. 

So, please advise what can I do from a legal standpoint to get justice, I’m still in US, not in a position to go India in till year end or later. 

Proofs - WhatsApp chats, UPI transactions, Voice recordings.