SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Thankful to my parents
DATE: 2023-04-16
SCORE: 1242
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12nw666/thankful_to_my_parents/

--- POST TEXT ---

My whole life my whole family was so good to me, yeah everyone has their arguments but never have they done anything to make me feel endangered. Same with the rest of my family. Even when I cryingly told my dad and mom that my maasi used to abuse me they went all Rambo on her and showered her with FIRs and reports, although they later dropped the charges they've gone no contact with my maasi and most other relatives who were involved.
Never have they ever made me or my sister or any of my cousins feel that we are less than perfect (trust me we are. None of us 4 cousins took jee or neet. Me and my elder cousin want to spend the next 10 years studying biological research, and the younger 2 took commerce), but they always said to do what you can do best and and give it all.
They were always open with us about menstruation, sexual health, and other topics I've heard aren't discussed in families.
When I was dating a boy during 12th they were so supportive, more so when we broke up. Ordering food and distracting me and telling me I am so much better etc.
When everyone in my class was going out to try vaping, hookah, alcohol, because their parents didn't allow. My parents went a step ahead and took me to vacation to a place where I could legally drink and made me try different alcohols and stuff, reiterating the point that if you ever want to do something like this do it at home in a controlled environment.
Not like they sheltered me too much, they made me well aware of how fraud can happen, kidnapped, assault and gave me different sides of the political scenarios so as to not make me anti-modi or pro-modi, they gave me facts about the constitution and what each party is doing wrong and what can be improved.
I didn't have many friends growing up, and was surrounded by people who were like my parents, imagine my shock when I grew older and people started telling me that's in fact not how everyone behaves. Now even on reddit I see posts.
I am just thankful to my parents for giving me the best life and preparing me for adulthood.