SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Possible Customs Scam?
DATE: 2024-06-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dewz85/possible_customs_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I just received a call a couple of hours back with the person on the other side introducing themselves as senior commissioner of customs at Delhi airport. I was immediately cautious because it is an absurd call to receive, especially from a place I haven't visited in over a year.

This person called to inform that they seized a shipment bound for Cambodia under my name and details carrying narcotics (MDMA). He proceeded to ask if I sent anything and I said no. They asked me if anyone could have had access to my Aadhar card because that was submitted and I said no. Then abruptly the call ended and this person called from another number. This time he asked me why I cancelled the call, and I very calmly told him, I didn't, he did. I was immediately suspicious and asked him why he has called me from another number and to call me back from the previous number. He said we are making an internet call hence we cannot call from the same number and this call is being recorded for quality and monitoring purpose (lol). I said quality and monitoring? What am I speaking to? Flipkart?

He then said no, I didn't say that. I said you literally just said quality and monitoring purpose. He then segued and proceeded to confirm my Aadhar number spelling it out to me and it was correct. 

He said this matter will be proceeded to the narcotics department to which I cut him there and asked him his name again. He said senior commissioner Ravi Patel and I asked him who does he report to and he stalled. I asked him who is your immediate boss because I know people in the customs and excise and I would like to verify your identity before we continue this conversation. I don't remember exactly but he digressss from that somehow. 

He went to say that we even emailed you. I asked him which email ID did you send it to? He stalled again and seemed to ask someone and he said he will confirm again. At this point I had a strong feeling this was a scam and I asked him why are you putting on an accent when talking in English. I asked him if he knew Hindi and to talk in Hindi to which he was like I am not putting an accent and all. I cut him there and asked him what is it he wanted and he seemed to get agitated and went on a rant that I am interrupting him continuously. I said get to the point because I don't have time if you are going to beat around the bush. 

I think at this point he understood that I probably wasn't going to cave so he said something in a hurry about reporting this incident to the station in Vasant Kunj or something. I said before all that I'll need to speak to the lawyer and then he got pissed and was like talk to the PM or the CM doesn't matter. We just called out of courtesy or something and he hung up.

If I get another call again, how should I tackle this on call? Some legal terms and protocol on such incidents would be appreciated so that I could use it on call to deter such lowlives from trying to scam people.

TLDR: Apparent customs scam trying to possibly swindle money by trying to insinuate involvement in narcotic shipment. Called their bluff but would like to know legal terms/protocol if such calls come again.