SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Telangana assembly refers hate speech bill to select committee following demands from parties
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-30
URL: https://theprint.in/india/telangana-assembly-refers-hate-speech-bill-to-select-committee-following-demands-from-parties/2892543/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Hyderabad, Mar 30 (PTI) The Telangana Assembly on Monday referred a bill, aimed at preventing hate speech to a select committee following demands by the BJP, CPI and also some ruling Congress members.
According to the statement of objects and reasons of the Telangana Hate Speech and Hate Crimes (Prevention) Bill, a dedicated legislation is necessitated to effectively prevent and regulate hate speech and hate crimes as the existing legal framework does not comprehensively address hate speech and crimes.
State Transport Minister Ponnam Prabhakar, who moved the bill on behalf of the Chief Minister, denied the allegations of the BJP and other members that the provisions of the bill hurt freedom of speech.
Show Full Article
The bill is proposed without hurting civil rights, he said.
He suggested that the bill be referred to a Select Committee of the House for detailed examination and report.
State Legislative Affairs Minister D Sridhar Babu proposed that the House authorise the Speaker to decide the number of members and to appoint members to the select committee, which was adopted by the Chair.
The bill said there has been a discernible increase, in recent years, in incidents of hate speech and crimes, particularly through digital and social media platforms, which have the potential to spread rapidly and cause serious harm to public order and social harmony.
It further said the legislation is sought to be enacted to curb and prevent the dissemination, publication or promotion of hate speech and hate crimes that incite disharmony or hatred in society against any person, group of persons or organisations and to provide for stringent punishment for such offences.
During the debate, BJP floor leader A Maheshwar Reddy said the bill may lead to human rights violations and “muzzle democracy”.
According to him, it lacked a clear definition of hate speech and hate crimes and terms like disharmony and hatred are poorly defined.
The burden of proof lies on the arrested person and not on a police official, which is dangerous.
Government officials are given full protection in the bill, while common people do not enjoy any good faith. The bill can be misused for political vendetta by those in power, he alleged, demanding its reference to a select committee.
AIMIM MLA Ahmed Bin Abdulla Balala said freedom of speech might be affected due to the bill and propagation of religion should not come under the proposed legislation.
Balala, who said there are provisions in the BNS, also favoured referring the bill to a select committee.
CPI member Kunamneni Sambasiva Rao objected to the alleged provision of registering cases against an organisation even if one member makes an objectionable speech, demanding the bill’s withdrawal.
Ruling Congress member M Ragamayee, who raised concerns over hate and objectionable posts on social comments through social media, said the bill should be referred to the panel to further improve it.
During the day, the House also passed the Telangana Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2026 to add ‘Reliance BP Mobility Limited’ suitably in Schedule-VI of the Telangana Value Added Tax Act, 2005.
The amendment seeks to ensure parity in tax treatment with other similarly placed entities already listed under the provisions of the Act and to provide legal clarity regarding the applicable tax provisions in respect of transactions undertaken by Reliance BP Mobility Ltd in Telangana, according to the statement of objects and reasons of the bill. PTI SJR SJR ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.