SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [Help] Need a solution to endless telemarketing calls
DATE: 2017-01-16
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5oa2tp/help_need_a_solution_to_endless_telemarketing/

--- POST TEXT ---

This topic has been bothering me for quite a while, and even though I searched the earlier threads to see if it has been discussed (because frankly, I do not think a very small amount of people would be facing this problem), I did not find anything relevant. So here goes:
I very recently signed up for a demat account with HDFC bank, around 3 months ago. Now since opening my account, trading and all has been going smoothly, with no actual trouble from HDFC itself, for a couple of days. BUt within a week or so, i started getting calls from this place called Capital Builder, offering me services for intraday trading tips. I turned down the offer a couple times, but still kept getting calls. Once I blocked the number, i started getting calls from different numbers, under the name of different companies, all offering me the same services. Two uncanny things i noticed here were, all calls started with "Kaise ho sir, Kaise chal raha hain apka trading..." and that all these numbers were from Indore. And I mean EVERY SINGLE number was from Indore. It got to a point where i started receiving around 3-4 calls a day offering me tips (obviously all from Indore). Frustrated, i asked one of the guys where he got my number from, he says it gets automatically updated to their company database. Since then, every guy I ask this question to says the same thing. Now the whole issue is beyond frustrating because these telemarketers are relentless and will not stop calling until I specifically tell them not to call me back. So I go a step further and decide to enquire with HDFC Securities, to which they state that they do not hand out personal information of any of their information to the marketers. This leaves only one option, that is the depository itself (NSDL in this case) in this case gives out client information to these intraday tip companies. I have enquired with NSDL about this but to no avail. Also, it'd seem a little improbable that an organisation as important to our markets as NSDL would be allowed under regulations to leak out our data to third parties. 
I would like to know if any of the subscribers to this sub have faced the same problem that i have, and what, if any, steps were taken to remedy it.

TLDR: I have been getting harrowing calls from trading companies,specifically, only ever since i got my demat account opened, and neither the bank nor the depository have admitted to giving out my details. How do I stop the calls?