SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: SAMPLE ASSIGNMENT is a scam.
DATE: 2021-06-13
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/nyfqp8/sample_assignment_is_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is for students who are having difficulty completing an assignment and went online to get some help.

I was one of those students and I obviously went online to fix the problem. Surprisingly, the top searches were [Sampleassignment.com](https://Sampleassignment.com) and two others ' help' that would link you back to sample assignment ( they obviously splash money for advertisement). My mistake was being desperate as the due date for a two-part assignment was coming. Hence, I went in headfirst without researching the website. I put my enquiries in and got a call within few minutes.

Here was the problem. The caller was a lady named Annie. Funny enough, she had a thick Indian accent. The number one rule of every South Asian is to NEVER TRUST AN INDIAN. So it was a risk. As previously mentioned, I was desperate. Hence, I only asked them to do one part of the assignment as a test subject. I ordered the assignment help on 20 April 2021 (Tuesday) at 10.30 pm. Annie said the 'expert' will finish it by Wednesday. But I said it's ok and gave it till Friday. She happily directed the payment of $175. (Note: she was replying back and forth before the payment and once the payment was done. The replies were slow.). Send them every information for Part A of the assignment.

The next day, I researched heavily on sampleassignment. That is when I realised I was scammed. Trustpilot and their own website have a lot of 5star reviews but 2 other review websites have more negative. The negatives had the same complaints; work never done, no refund given and constant delay with excuses. Most importantly, it was genuine. However, the positive reviews were basically the same thing expressed in a different way and always by Indian or some common western name such as "Michael Dove" and etc. And from their own website reviews which is 100% positive. it's funny how the 4-5 reviewers tend to have the same order number. It's laughable. I knew I was scammed.

Friday came and no work done. Luckily I had an extension till Sunday. After scamming call they never pick up and message, they told me they need an extension. Sunday came and I did myself and submitted it. While they didn't reply or answer. I told them on Sunday 11pm that I don't need the assignment. I only received a call after 4 days that the 'expert' has covid (negative reviews stated they used covid excuses a lot). I told them I don't need it and just want my refund. and this is what they said "the expert has finished the assignment but needs a day or two to send" meaning they never did any shit. I told them that I am not falling for this bullshit and want my refund. All the bitch said was "ok" and hung up. Immediately, I got another call from some random number and another bitch said " when are u giving the assignment? client need it" and hung up. I think that was a rouse to make me believe they are 'doing' the assignment.

It has been almost 2 months now. No refund and no completed work lol. The first month was just me messaging Annie to get my refund back ( bitch doesn't pick up calls and she only replies once every week). I did apply for refund forms like the bitch said and yet nothing. So after a month, I have been verbally abusing her (She deserve it those Indian scamming pricks). I obviously lost $175 but its worth it after leaving abuses and that bitch got the audacity to demand an apology (she can choke on her fucking naan and die lmao) when she is spamming other poor students.

The reason I am writing this long is to give detailed experiences and also warn other students about the scam. Moreover, it seems that Reddit doesn't have any information about [Sampleassignment.com](https://Sampleassignment.com). I really hope this Reddit comes on top when students have doubts over their service and prevent them from being scammed. Racial stereotypes are bad but in this case, it's a fact. Indians are the heart of every scam. For next time, if you are getting any online services and the callers are Indian. Please for the love of God, don't trust them. Warn your friends. I hope this helps students as I sacrificed $175. It's best to do your assignment yourself tbh. I got 18/18 for the assignment. Also, I did extra research and found out most assignment 'help' websites are a scam and run by Indians. Most of them would just take the money and never delivers even though they promised a refund. Some have the "if it is not 80%, you get 50% refund" is also a fake this. When they do give you the assignment, it is just copy-paste from other sources. This is bad as they give multiple students the same material which gives more than 80% plagiarism. That could get you kicked out of college with academic misconduct. Save yourself and don't let these sack of Indian cow shits ruin your future.

TDLR: Sample assignment is a scam and don't use it at all cost.