SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Divorce is inevitable just worried about my daughter - I have a very abusive and toxic wife
DATE: 2024-09-20
SCORE: 164
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fleu3q/divorce_is_inevitable_just_worried_about_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Please read all the points carefully and do tell me that what all the cases sections I can file as she will file all the fake 498a and other 10-12 cases on me or my parents I don't want to just defend but also fight back in court

1. I have over 50 audio recordings, including sounds of objects being thrown and shouting.

2. She threatened me with a knife in mid-2024.

3. She hit me with a broom earlier in 2024.

4. A knife was used on the wall at the end of 2022; I have videos and pictures of the damage.

5. She was previously married, which she did not disclose. I later found out through her family, and I have an audio recording of her confession.

6. She locks herself in the bedroom for hours when angry over small issues.

7. She has damaged glasses (both hers and mine), hit a monitor with a hanger, and has threatened to break other items.

8. She always screams or fights when my parents call or visit.

9. Her mother encourages her to fight, and they talk on the phone for hours every day.

10. One night in early 2024, she woke up and made eerie sounds for 5 minutes, similar to something from a ritual. She did something similar the year before, playing eerie music.

11. She frequently threatens to call the police or lawyers over minor disagreements.

12. Whenever her mother calls, she locks herself in the bedroom for hours and neglects our child, leaving me to take care of her.

13. Her mother pressures her for money, and I have had to help multiple times because they often lack funds for emergencies.

14. She threatens that after my father passes away, she will make sure my mother doesn’t receive any help from me.

15. She refuses to go out for movies or restaurants, fearing I will look at other women.

16. She avoids eating at relatives' houses, convinced they are involved in black magic.

17. Both she and her mother are very superstitious, believing that their dreams predict future events.

18. She won’t let me take our child to a hospital recommended by a specialist because she suspects I will look at the women doctors or nurses.

19. She is very controlling, dictating where I go, when I should leave, and what I should do.

20. Once, she didn’t open the door for 10-15 minutes because I was late by 30-40 minutes after hanging out with friends.

21. She fought with me for 3 days, accusing me of looking at someone in a public place, and called the police the next day, making false claims.

22. Her mother convinces her that people are doing black magic on her to isolate her from others.

23. She has told me a disturbing family story from decades ago multiple times.

24. She is paranoid and doubts everyone, even over small issues.

25. She threw objects at me in mid-2022 for a trivial reason.

26. She has repeatedly said in an angry and dangerous way that she plans to torture my parents in their old age and that she was sent by a higher power to punish us.

27. She left the house for several days in late August 2024 without clear communication about when she would return.

28. Her family holds strong, superstitious beliefs, including the idea that they will one day find a bucket of gold.

29. She has told me multiple times that she hates men and doesn’t trust them.

30. She searches for women in the backgrounds of photos I have taken and accuses me of taking pictures of other women.

31. She sold gold jewelry in mid-2024 to pay off her mother's debt.

32. She says her mother worked for a lawyer and knows all the legal tricks.

33. Her family believes they have supernatural powers and will find hidden treasures.

34. She refuses to let me put the garbage out at night, believing that neighbors will use our trash for black magic.

35. She didn’t allow any of my relatives at an important family event because she feared her family’s secrets would be exposed.

36. She lied about her family history, hiding details from me before our marriage.

37. Her family has blackmailed her multiple times, threatening to reveal secrets if they don’t get money.

38. Shortly after our marriage, her family started pressuring her for large sums of money and blackmailing her.

39. Her mother often tells me not to make her daughter angry, rather than advising her daughter to calm down.

40. Her mother seems intent on starting fights between us as a way to obtain money, given the financial strain in their family.

41. She has repeatedly threatened that her family will physically harm my mother, referencing past incidents.