SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: A possible scammer posing as an OLX buyer in Pune
DATE: 2022-09-20
SCORE: 28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/xio25i/a_possible_scammer_posing_as_an_olx_buyer_in_pune/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a post inspired by another post in this sub. 

In hindsight, the entire scam was very stupid, and me being unfamiliar with OLX and its safety measure obviously played a huge role. 

The scam's primary method is to contact unassuming sellers posing as potential buyers. After the seller finalizes the 'deal', these scammers will ask whether the seller is okay with UPI payment and will take UPI details. Within minutes they will 'initiate payment' by sending a link. This link is a UPI payment request that will UPI window asking for PIN. After giving your PIN, the amount will be transferred. And yes, it will be transferred from the seller's account. 

Even to gain the seller's trust, the scammer will propose sending 1 rupee first to confirm whether it is the correct UPI or not. What they do is they will be on the other side of the call and will constantly be asking whether you have given your PIN or not. The moment you say yes, they will actually send you 1 rupee. This creates a false assurance as you will receive a message confirmation (And they will assume the victim will not receive the debit message, idk)!

I fell (almost) for the scam because this specific buyer told me they were from the same government organization as I am. The profile photo looked familiar to me (although none of my colleagues could recognize them). I thought somebody from my office or a family member was contacting me. As I know, most of them prefer paying their bills in advance. Instead of being vigilant, I put my guard down. So when they asked me to confirm my 1 rupee transaction, I thought about not-so-tech-savvy colleagues. In my mind, I am like, let's send them this 1 rupee to show that in this way I will be the one sending them money, not vice versa! LoL! They ended up sending me 2 rupees in two back-to-back transactions, so you can say I profited 1 rupee from this 'elaborate' scam. 

Also, another point here to note is that they will create an emergency and ask you to click here and there within seconds, or else 'the transaction will get stuck and blah blah'. For me, the entire phone call was less than 2 minutes! They immediately changed their tone when they realized I was not falling into their trap. They started abusing me, stating how I had taken their money!!! 

I have their phone number and two bank details! And later, I did some digging and found their social media profiles. I also talked to the bank, and they were amazed by the sheer stupidity. 

This is a rather long story. But maybe pass it down to your friends and family who are thinking of selling their stuff online.