SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: 300+ people scammed
DATE: 2023-06-17
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/14bb08r/300_people_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi

I am quite sure we will need to do a lot more than posting here.
However, looking for some initial steps and if there is any hope of taking this ahead.
So a couple of years ago, more than 100-150 people in Bangalore and Mumbai each were scammed by a 'businessman'.
The said business promised high returns (over 30%), for investments in collectible and rare coins. Although this already reeks of a Ponzi scheme, the fact that this business had proper offices in both city's extremely high value business precincts, the presence of proper and functioning teams, plus tie-ups and collaboration with big celebrities from the movie &amp; religious universes, enabled the said 360 or so people to invest anything between a couple of lakhs upto 10 crores. Elderly people, salaried middle class folks and successful &amp; connected businessmen made up the list of 'investors' who expected their money to be doubled or tripled in a year.

Cutting to the chase, the businessman and his wife, in whose names the companies were formed, took all the money, and overnight ran away to the UK. He kept in touch for about a year stating he would return the money, just having difficulties transferring it etc etc, until about 6 months ago went radio silent, and no one has heard from him since.

Very surprisingly, most of these people who have been scammed, have done very little to try to get their money back. It seems like the overarching belief is that there is nothing they can do, since the parties are not in this country.

Is this the harsh truth? Is there anyone we can approach in the government or other bodies that can help in any way?
Is it true for the government to get involved, there needs to be involvement of hundreds/thousands of crores?
Is there a legal process that can help in any way? What sort of lawyer or other professional should be the first point of contact?

All the investors have 'proper' documents and proof of their investments, and promised returns. The lady scammer's parents and family live in India. This is just for added context.

Please advise