SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: 2 crores 
DATE: 2024-11-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1gh6lih/2_crores/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone,

First of all , so sorry to put this title to catch all of your attention. But request everyone to have a glance at below once and advise/help me to overcome from this problem.

M , 30 years old working in MNC at 18 lpa and about to get married in coming march month.

My father has started business 24 years ago with one of mine close relative. Everything was going well untill 2018. Along with him, there were 3 more people who were working for him.

Since 2018, they (4) started doing financial fraud and considering my father trust on our relative, he never questioned them. Things were started coming day and by day and we realised the whole problem in last January month.

As of now,

Father's debt to customer - 35 lakhs 
Father's debt to friends and family - 25 lakhs 
Father's total outstanding loan - 10 lakhs
Mine personal loan - 20 lakhs
Mine debt to friends and family - 5 lakhs

I have taken loan to deal with some highly frustrated customers who were not ready to listen to our problems.

We have already sold out 2 of our properties to clear off our housing debt and to resolve some customer's financial problems (who were victims)

As of now , we are only left with 1 property ( 6.5 acre) which has market value of 1.9 crore however even after trying for last 5 months, brokers are only giving hope or making excuses to reduce the value of the land. They are quite known about our situation and their intention is to buy land at 50% of land current value.

My marriage (Arranged) is already fixed and they are not aware about this situation in our family yet. 

My family also wants to renovate house since a new member will be coming and from last 15 years, our house never got painted. Since my father use to put money only on his business.

A wedding will definitely cost around 10-15 lakhs for middle class family like us. However considering the above situation, I am very scared how to deal with it.

I keep thinking about asking for help to rich people via LinkedIn or twitter but didn't have the dare as I am scared what if they can post about my situation in my LinkedIn post. (Yes, fear of shame publically I guess)

I am trying to give my 100% to my job in order to not to make any mistake and can have some relief in my current situation. However my EMI is keep getting increased month by month.

Sorry but kindly consider below points too.
1. My father has given up to fight with those people since we know it will only be carrying over years by years and customers will be frustrated more. Also all these customers are of my father so they all are like - manage your problem but return our money. We have no interest to fight with those fraudsters legally or ir- legally.

2. I can't reveal this to girls family as mine family is scared about called off marriage from them.

I have asked my family to sell those lands to clear off every debt that we have so that we can start a new journey. As I could see the health deterioration in my family members too.

Me, my mom and dad are always stressed out nowdays.

Can anyone please advise as I beleive there are always solution for every problems however I may be missed to see it from my perspective.

Also I would like to know if anyone is interested to buy land for agriculture purpose or for making warehouse? 

Please feel free to add anything from your side.

I am again sorry to make this post very long and I appreciate your time if you read it.