We, all the students of Geeklurn Edutech Services Private Ltd Institute based in Bengaluru, Karnataka write to draw your attention towards the educational fraud happening from the institute in terms of finance loan. Reason to reach you directly is because police in students’ specific areas are not accepting FIR since it is an online institute and based in Bengaluru and after reporting to cybercrime no action has been taken yet. Some Students made an FIR in Pune but no solution from them since last 1 and half month. We have attached some data related to this fraud from Pune Maharashtra Location. Please refer news channel coverage video for your reference as, (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IGTGPU6JqBo&feature=youtu.be) Our concerns which we all students are having right now are listed below. Geeklurn Edutech Services Private Ltd Institute had made a promise during the admission process to credit EMI payments for up to two years and had set up an auto-debit system to pay the finance partner like Avanse, Aditya Birala, Neev etc. However, Geeklurn are not following through with this commitment. They were providing EMI payments until 2 to 4 months ago, but now they are saying that payments will be made on the 15th of every month instead of the previous date of the 4th, and we have not received any payments from the past 2 months. This has resulted in constant calls from the finance partner, causing mental harassment. In a few months we again got to know that we have to attend a course with minimum 50% attendance and assessment score of 80%.to avail the scholarship we agreed on that too, after few days we got to know only 50% attendance is required to avail the scholarship we all student agreed on this time too, after few days we got another News that first our EMI will be deducted then we will get the scholarship till 15th of every month, again we student left with no choice and but agreed on it this time as well. We have already paid the EMI for the month of march from our pocket, and we have already sent our consent by the google form which has been raised by finance team, and we're still waiting for the scholarship amount of March and today is 2nd of April and we are just round the corner for the April months EMI. Also after next month they are changing their criteria with A, B, C & D category for scholarship received. But still no one received an Emi amount. We mailed to geeklurn institute so many times but no reply from them, we called them but no response from them. We also requested to discontinue this and cancel our admission, but they forcefully did not cancel this and due this non following commitment we are really frustrated as already our other Emi are going on and again these people are creating new stories and new changes every month. We request to help us to cancel our admission and relief from this personal loan fraud. Note: They also make fraud saying we have Education loan but as per document its show personal loan so please look into it and help me. And this loan is directly deposited to Geeklun without our concern and Geeklurn will be liable to pay in the form of monthly scholarship to our account and from our account to the Finance Partner such as Avanse, Aditya Birala, Neev etc. Also, below person who are not responding, not taking calls and no support from there end as 1) Asha (Salesperson): [protected], [protected], [protected] she took lost of follow up for taking admissions 2) Aman (Co-ordinator): [protected] We really want to cancel this admission because we don't want to continue with such a non-committed and fraud institute. This is our final decision, and we already mail to Geeklurn Institute official mail id regarding cancellation and NOC to submit to the finance provider but have not yet received any call or any mail reply regarding this. Please help us from this scam…Co-operation expected from your side. Also found some recordings from their staff as well for your reference which we received on students whatsapp group. We drop this mail to everyone as we are not getting any help from others only you are the hope to us to come out from this fraud. Please do the needful asap. i want justice from institute and finance partner-propelled they have done mentally torture and have faced difficulties depression stress please help me Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)