SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Scammed and helpless!
DATE: 2024-05-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1d0gxrz/scammed_and_helpless/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, I recently lost 62 lakhs to a task fraud on telegram and WhatsApp. It started when a person reached on WhatsApp for Google reviews and paid around 50 per review. Later this was moved onto telegram where they added me to a group of three and told there will be three tasks further which had to be done without break and at the end total amount can be withdrawn. Task began with investing 38k and second was to invest 4 lakh. Later he said I brought a wrong share and didn’t follow his instructions so all of us have to pay more to cover it so we did. The last task was 8 lakh. After this one member could withdraw amount, posted screenshot and left. For me and one more guy, he said our accounts are not vip level and should be to withdraw amount and demanded more 8 lakhs after which the other guy could withdraw and he left. But he said I gave an error bank account number and my account is freezed for which I was asked to pay. Seeing other two people getting their amount I trusted and paid. He again said account if unfreezed but funds are lying freely so a vip account has to be made to claim these are yours to which I said we already did so many transactions so it should be a proof so he said it’s the banks rule and promised this is last. This was charged a hefty amount too after which again he says tax has to be paid. I created an issue as he keeps breaking promises all the time and I can’t trust anymore and asked him to return all raw amount without profit and he doesn’t agree and demands more to get back all money. He gives an agreement from some company called HCL software and bitcoin exchange saying this is last but it was a forged document. I have filed complaint with cyber police last Monday. The so called trading was being done on a fake website called nvidia. If anyone has been through this and got back your money by battling, please suggest a way out for me to recover as much as possible as I had taken multiple loans to pay the scam and the emis now are way more than my salary. The police is being very slow and there’s no help I get from them. Thanks in advance!