SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Scammed out money from a online scammer but money got held by hdfc against a MHA complaint 
DATE: 2024-11-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gjlprc/scammed_out_money_from_a_online_scammer_but_money/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi
Context (you can skip this part)- You might be aware of online scammers who offer you a job and the ask you to review random things, visit random sites as tasks and for each 3 tasks they offer you around 150 rs for that? I’ve been doing this for a while with different scammers. I usually stopped when they asked me to deposit money cause I knew I was not going to get it back. But after getting to know from a person who actually got scammed with 3 lac rs by them I got to know the mechanics of that.
They ask you to deposit say 1000 bucks, assign you a task on a fake crypto website that they have made and return you 1400/1600 bucks. Then they give you another three tasks for 150 and ask you to increase the amount. Now they ask 3000. And so on. This escalates quickly to a very huge amount and when they feel like they have made enough, they just don’t return the money and it’s all lost.

The issue - I went ahead with a bold step and engaged on the crypto fake website scam 3 times 
Once for 1000, second for 3k and third for 5k.

Made around 2-3k from those scammers.

But nearing end of aug my bank account had a debit freeze on it. I contacted my bank, got the freeze removed. They were ambiguous on telling me why the account was actually frozen, but it was indicative enough for me.

Fast forward to now, i see that 2200 is being held by hdfc bank against a MHA cyber complaint number.

What I want to know is, what is expected of me? If there’s a chance that the person to whom the money actually belonged to gets its back then I don’t have the slightest problem.

I’m willing to coordinate to whomsoever is concerned. What I don’t want is - look guilty.

I don’t know the legality of scamming a scammer. Technically speaking, I was hired by them as I was given tasks to complete and paid by them for competing those tasks. Will I get in trouble for this? Morally, my beliefs say I did nothing wrong in scamming a scammer. But if I could find the person to whom the money actually belonged to, I’ll hand it over happily.

Any advise is welcome. Should I connect with the bank? Or the cyber crime department? 
How do I proceed?

TLDR - have money held by Hdfc against a cyber complaint. Got that money from a scammer as I scammed him. What are the repercussions of that complaint? Should I contact the bank for this or just ignore the held money and consider it lost?