Furlenco pick up team was supposed to pick one sofa set, one bed side table and one mattress in April, 2023 from bangalore address. I was in bangalore for 1.5 years, I did rent out the furniture for more than a year, while i was planning to leave bangalore, I scheduled a pick up for the furnitures, the pick up date was provided April 29th, 2023. I was supposed to leave bangalore by May first week. I called their support team, and I told them to pick it up at earliest. They would say yes we will assign a pick up team but nobody showed up or nobody was assigned to pick the furniture and the funniest part was their app was throwing an error. I sent those furnitures to my friends place, and then I called their team to pick it up from there. Same behaviour nobody picked it up from there, and fake promises one after one pick up dates were being assigned but no follow up for same. I left bangalore in May, in September these guys are calling me and harassing me by charging money for those products. When clearly these guys didn't pick it up, these guys told me their system was under maintenance, so nobody came to pick up the products for past 6 months. The products were misplaced, these guys didn't pick it up when they were supposed to, I had to leave city, still I waited for these guys to pick it up but these guys didn't even respond to my pick up request. Later my friends found the misplaced mattress and returned it to them, after 100 calls and requests ( literally 100+ calls) they picked it up after almost 3 months. It has been 1 year and they are calling me every 30 mins and asking me to pay money. Multiple service requests have been logged from my side to cancel my subscription and remove those charges from my profile. For once their employee told me the pick up is canceled and there won't be any action items as it was their fault that they didn't pick it up for 6 months, and now the items are misplaced. But the calling and threatening to send legal notice continues. There are multiple SR, where they are not responding, multiple customer care agents who are not aware of issue, but simply calling and asking me to pay money, there's no communication at all, and then there are random agents who are literally calling and shouting at me with threatens of legal notice. I have screenshots of their old pick up dates which they never cared, I have been begging them to pick up the items then at earliest from my friends place, and even my friends have waited long enough for those items to get picked up, they dont even send me an update on my service requests. They don't even care about it, they deliberately don't pick up items and then charge lump sum amount to retrieve their money after taking rent for the whole rental period. Their app data records have changed now, they have changed the status by themselves, but I have old date screenshots, which they have deliberately changed now. I request somebody to take action against these fraudsters, who are literally playing these tricks to earn hard earned money of people like us, who are the victims of these tricks. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)