SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Fooled and professionally conned out of 19000 Rs by scammers near Karol Bagh
DATE: 2024-09-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1fbzsko/fooled_and_professionally_conned_out_of_19000_rs/

--- POST TEXT ---

Last night, around 10:30 PM, I was driving home when a guy on another car started pointing at my car’s hood and saying something. I rolled down my window, and he told me there were sparks coming from it. I didn't think much of it at first, but then I decided to check. The guy followed me and got off after I parked. Soon after another uncle approached us from a bike saying the same "Beta aapka gaadi se bohot sparks aa raha hai aur ap befikre chalate ja raho ko - jaldi jake bonnet kolo dekh lete hain" . They told me to start the engine while the uncle checked under the bonnet. While I was starting the engine from the driver seat, he had pulled out one of the spark plugs. When I came out to look he showed me the sparks from the plug saying its super dangerous to drive like this "aapko toh gaadi ke bare meh kuch bhi nahi malum aur ap license le liye - beta me madat karta hoon aap bas chup raho ab". I could not see clearly at the time where the sparks were coming from but started panicking and became anxious and started listening to the uncle ji thinking he could be right. Soon after a mechanic was called by this uncle who mentioned that the battery had to be replaced as the circuit is unresponsive or dead. It was pretty late and my car would not start anymore so I had no choice and agreed to get it fixed then.

This morning I reached the service center to get my car checked on this - the service center ran some diagnostics and found out that the electrical system was perfectly fine and there were no reasons for the alternator to be replaced especially since mine was a new one. The sparks I saw might have been due to a minor issue or a loose connection—nothing that needed an urgent repair or a replacement. They had mentioned I should have just tried refitting the spark plug back mentioning the uncle must have pulled the spark plug out while I was busy at the drivers seat opening the bonnet. 
The electrical system looked dead because the mechanic must have removed one of the fuses at some point when that fat scammer uncle had me looking away towards his direction. I was getting anxious here, so he took good advantage of the situation, got me chatting to him while he had cleverly cupped my face between his hands making sure I can't turn my head back suddenly to see whats going on (he had my cheeks gently pressed with his hands locking my eyes to his) - me thinking it was a just a fatherly gesture let it be which on hindsight, is embarrassing and probably incredibly dumb of me -I know now...this probably gave the scammers more confidence on my gullibility and the idea to relieve more parts off my car later.. 
Shortly after, a few more fuses were neatly removed one by one like this and the entire system was killed which helped convince me the battery needs to be replaced. 
I paid Rs. 5000 in cash and another 800 rs for the labor cost —without realizing I was being scammed. Initially, I only thought they had replaced the battery, but the shocker is that my brand new alternator (worth 9000 rs) had also been swapped with an old, worn-out one (close to scrap at this point) while I was captivated and distracted talking to the other biker uncle answering his questions. They never even told me there was any issue with my alternator and got that cleverly replaced at the end really quick...I am so in shock that I never noticed this happening while they were doing it right under my nose and got away with all the parts. The service center later revealed that all the parts were super old, used, or refurbished and that I had been overcharged by a huge amount. They had simply been rewrapped to look new to dupe me.

I have been very professionally duped and collectively conned out of atleast 19000 rs that night. I’m just frustrated and embarrassed at this point for being a made a fool. Just a heads-up to everyone: make sure to get your car checked by trusted professionals only and be wary of anyone who seems too eager to "help" you out. Not having enough knowledge of the various car engine parts cost me dearly, making me fall for this scam...