SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: New method to deal with Auto-dialer Scammers!
DATE: 2021-04-09
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/mnk0hq/new_method_to_deal_with_autodialer_scammers/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: found a new method to stop auto scam companies! Just insult them to no end - tell them how they bring shame on their family name and they eventually stop calling!

Hi Reddit! I wanted to share my new method of dealing with scammers. I have been trying out different methods to no avail finally found one that worked...

So I have been getting daily calls from "Apple Care" about a breach of my iCloud account. I'm pretty familiar with all the scams and the methods they use. It's pretty easy to identify - random number from the area code I use to live in, Apple, warranty, social security garbage... You know the typical call. 

I decided to take a new approach with the Apple Care scammers after getting called 3 days in a row with the same message. Basically I open making small talk - then switch to berating them for been a cancer on society. Calling them out for been an embarrassment, saying they should be ashamed for themselves, calling out that they are ruining their family names, etc. The goal is to make them feel as bad as humanely possible.

Several of the scammers hung up immediately - that's not what you want. Others started trying to justify things. "Ohh I can see your a smart American - know how much money I make scamming, I bet I make more than you". That's a pretty easy one to shut down - I'm a software developer which is huge in India - where the majority of the scammers are. If I point out they couldn't make it in a real job and took the easy path of been a criminal it shuts them down. Keep reminding them that they are a disgrace to their family. Family is important to a lot of the scammers and many I talked to are claiming they are just trying to provide for their family.

The results... Initially I got a few scammers to apologize for what they do to people - this is what you want - them to feel bad for what they do. Another scammer I talked to put me on a frequent call list. This increased the scam calls to 8-10 a day. Sometimes multiple in an hour from this scam house (same message every time).

Eventually I broke them. Every call they make costs them money. Every time I would answer, wait on hold if needed, then proceed to tear their sole apart. It went from confrontational calls, to them asking me to stop answering, to them trying to justify been in a different ecenomic situation to get this - silence.

It took probably 20-30 calls total. Eventually they removed me from their system - they got tired of been constantly and consistently torn down and make to feel bad about themselves. My recommendation to others - do exactly this. They are people too and can only take so much before they don't want to hear it any more. 

My phone has been silent for 2 days now. It was a tough Battle but I believe I won the war (at least against this one scam house).

Edit: spelling also...

My recommendations to those that try this method.
Small talk is important, starting with insults means they hang up. Try different insults - the shame they bring to their family was most effective in my opinion. Finally, be cool calm and collect as you tear them down. You don't want to show them your triggered - you want to trigger them. This kept them taking and justifying it... Pretty sure some of those scammers went home feeling like shit yesterday which is the goal.