SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Scam and harassment for consumer complaint removal/ rectification by Caseily accessories, Mumbai. Also threatened with a legal notice claiming non-payment (paid, they changed the name of their payment merchant account)
DATE: 2024-06-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dr7chw/scam_and_harassment_for_consumer_complaint/

--- POST TEXT ---

Scam and harassment for consumer complaint removal/ rectification by Caseily accessories, Mumbai owned by Khushal Rita. Ordered three items on 10th May. While ordering, I also enquired about two things - Casetify cases and iPad cases, which he sent me photos of and within the same hour, also put story highlights of those two things. First warning bell. Ordered my things without thinking much. Checked the page the next day. Comments were turned off/ limited. Number of likes were also hidden. Second warning bell. I did get my invoice the same day. But with no tracking ID, which was given to me after weeks of pestering, which he said was delayed because of the elections. The tracking ID never worked until I complained to the courier service and they fixed it - the tracking ID he sent me was for a shipment of December 2023 - he send me a fake tracking ID. I told this to him and then kept asking everyday about an update.

I have never pressured him or abused him since I did need the order. I gave up on it and posted a consumer complaint only to find there were hundreds of complaints in his name, from all four corners of India. 

After the complaint, he popped up today in my Instagram DMs, blackmailing me to ship the parcel only if I mark the issue as resolved. Which he would probably go to post as a customer review, like one done on 5th march in his customer review highlights. I told him I would apologise in the consumer forum once the parcel reaches me but he wouldn’t budge. And he also blackmailed me that he’d be sending a legal notice.

Please stay away. I don’t care about the money right now. But any advice?