SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Flipkart mess up and delivery goons harassment and police
DATE: 2021-10-27
SCORE: 79
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/qgzekk/flipkart_mess_up_and_delivery_goons_harassment/

--- POST TEXT ---

Update: a police car and the vendor showed up at my apartment and called me to the street. Flipkart customer care escalation person was on the phone, spoke with the vendor and sent them away. I’m shaken and distraught that I had to go through all this.

Edit: item costs 25k now. Bought for 20k with discount during sale. It’s been 15 days since delivery. Harassment by local people, police(?) and my talk with customer care from two days ago.

Edit for clarity: Long text. Edited Tldr; bought product from Flipkart. They delivered and cancelled it online afterwards by their mistake and refunded the amount. Now local Flipkart delivery people / Flipkart vendor / Flipkart cluster manager are calling me and harassing me to return the product. Got a call from some police also.

Here are the details:

Bought an item during sale.
Flipkart delivered and next day cancelled the order.
Refunded the amount. (Did not realise I got a refund until the next point)
Someone claiming to be from Flipkart shows up at house and asks to check if I got refund, I said I got refund and order shows cancelled.
He asks me to pay the refund amount.
I said I’ll pay give me a bill.
Then he tracks back
He says bill can’t be generated. And then he told me to give the item back and reorder the item.
I said item is costly on the website. To which he told he’ll pay the difference.
However I have to stay without the item for few days and all this extra hassle. I told I’ll contact Flipkart.

Contacted Flipkart customer care, explained the situation and told I am willing to pay back the refunded money. They said they’ll get back in two days. resolution pending. They asked to tell the local guys to contact Flipkart.

Next day (today):
The local Flipkart vendor/logistics/seller person calls, his manager calls, Flipkart cluster manager (whatever it means) also called. To all of them I told I’ve raised the issue with Flipkart and please talk to them.

Call from someone who said he is from police station.
He is asking me to bring print out of the email to the police station where Flipkart’s ticket and situation is mentioned. (Flipkart email only has a complaint id)

Called Flipkart customer care:
They verbally mentioned and asked to record the call for proof that: I as a customer did not cancel the order it’s a software error from Flipkart side. That they won’t take the money back from me and that I can also keep the product with me.

I’ve blocked all the local people numbers. Except for who claimed to be police.
Now do I have to show up at the police?
What am I supposed to do?
Needless to say this is extremely fucked up.

Called customer care again, this person is saying I have to return the product, I asked if I burnt my product how will I return. On hold again.

Please help with any insights or solutions.