SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: What are my options on this? Person took money from us, made us followup for 45 days for his order and our money, still not paid.
DATE: 2023-02-15
SCORE: 45
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/112sx0g/what_are_my_options_on_this_person_took_money/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR : Person kept committing will pay us back which we paid him to get his order but didn't pay yet, he sounds all genuine and isn't a fraud case but is disturbing us mentally. 

This person has an events marketing company. My mom owns a tiffin service business. He contacted us in December end for an order of 200 units snack boxes, at 165rs per box to be delivered 1-2 weeks later. 

He asked us to collect chq for full order amount but we were in native and could not collect. Then he said he needs US to pay him 8600 which he could show as transport cost transaction and upload to some client portal to get the order. He assured us he'll pay back and asked us to pay. We paid. (Only since he offered to collect his chq) 

Then he submitted the chq to bank and sent us the slip but asked us for more amount since order quantity was 300 now. We paid him. But his chq did not get cleared. He said he will transfer again. 

His grandmom was hospitalized so he could not pay back on time. On 11th on Jan he informed his grandmom has passed away but he will transfer the amount. Absolute empathy towards him and his family in this duration. 

After some time he sent neft transaction picture. And said order is increased to 400 units and asked for more amount. We denied but he insisted so we paid. 

He paid us back few 3-4k 2 times and kept saying will transfer the rest with order amount. 

Now he had a total of 11k of OUR money. He kept saying will transfer, changed modes of payment, said his daughter fell sick and delayed more. 

It was almost Jan end now. We told him to clear the payment or increase the cost from 165 to 180. 

He said he will only pay as per 170. Few days passed by. He said he has received client cheque and will be paying. We told him to pay or cancel the order. He kept giving deadlines and commitments. All broken. 

This is all online conversation till now on chat. I asked him to share his address, picture &amp; alternate numbers. He didn't share. I had his address since he asked to collect chq. 

Now few days back he said he was in financial issues and took a loan to pay us. I visited his house to speak to him to pay back atleast our 11k. He said he'll try but didn't do. 

Back to today, he said his loan has been processed and sent slip of 61k (while order amount is 77k as per 400 units + our 11k) 

I asked him for balance amount (16k) . He said he will pay one day before the order (19th Feb sunday). I said I don't trust him after so much followup &amp; told him he had commited to pay full amount, he just said kya fark padta hai 1 din phele mil jayega apko. 

Then he says to only make 300 units if I don't trust him for 16k amount. 

There is still no guarantee that his transfer will not fail again. 
----------------------- 

We are a small family and have bills to pay, have borrowed money since he is holding our money. The order is also important to us. He is answering all calls and messages &amp; isn't a fraud as such. 

But the amount of anxiety and uncertainty I and mom have suffered bcz of this is way too much. When we scolded him and taunted him for not keeping his commitments he said things like - jeena haram kar dunga apka you don't know who I am. 

Rest of the times he has been polite and has apologized many times too. But has NEVER Kept his word. 

If this current transaction fails, can I sue him for mental harrasment and lies? Can I hold him accountable for each of his commitments? 

Can I ask him for compensation for the trouble he has caused us? The order is important too but is it him playing with us? He says he too is facing many difficulties which he would. But why do I have to suffer for his problems? For no reason at all?