This is to inform you that Anshuman and Gaurav put an allegation of call bombing harassment on me by registering a complaint in Noida Sec 18 Police Station. The respective police station is doing my tracking for more than 7 months. The reason why they have put such an allegation is that I worked under them in NPPA project. The client have given repetitive changes on one desk, I keep on doing these changes for more than 3 months but the changes were not finalized due to which I was not able to proceed further to develop other modules of project. I talked to my Reporting Officer regarding this issue he asked me to tell Gaurav to drop a mail to the client to finalize changes on respective desk. When I asked Gaurav to do so, then Gaurav refused then Anshuman refused we will not drop a mail very rudely and arrogantly and asked me whether you want to do work or not. I said don't blame me if there is no progress is seen in this project. He said in the same tone okay. Then I dropped a resignation mail as I had not seen any progress in this project due to their stupid decisions. They even don't listen to our Reporting Officer. Then our Reporting Officer resolved our issues. I had taken resignation back at that time. They got jealous and started planning plotting against me. The call bombing began on them which is the result of domino's data leakage on which call bombing siren was activated due to stupidity of Modi. I have a doubt that they know about this thing. They instead reached Noida Sec 18 Police Station as they know this the best time to take revenge from me. They had not approached senior police officer for filing complaint who got much number of complaints instead they approached Khushbudeep who got no complaints. Why? Because Anshuman and Gaurav know they use illegal devices which are used to lower breathing, change body orientation and make unlimited traps into body for 24/7 by using drawings machine which are used to control body movements of a person. They did so for destroying my reputation, bound and gag my body, show their irrelevant attitude mainly. They ask policeman on speaker should we take reaction or ask them to tell them when they want to take reaction. They said they wanted to take more reactions. From the starting of tracking, they are busy in taking reactions and not doing any work. They are making decisions which is going to end the project we are working on. During this tracking period, they call me to their seat for assigning work which I can do easily with the help of IT cell executive instead they waste my time and effort as they don't listen to the client, they design everything on their own unfollowing client as well as IT cell executive. Their main policemen are Angad and Dhruv who are expert in using illegal machines on anyone's body for 24/7. Anshuman and Gaurav had given my reference that they had a doubt on me, these Angad and Dhruv had used their puppet cyber cells and instructed them to add my name in call bombing harassment list for call bombing done on them. This is how they make false evidence. They had also given them offer to earn commission with them through Asylum van and rapist gang for helping them keeping their hostages. My office colleagues including HR, Director, Group Coordinator, Reception employees as well as other employees are trying their best to end my tracking but these Dhruv and Angad talk very arrogantly and rudely with them, Anshuman and Gaurav don't scold them for their behavior instead support them. My office colleagues explain Anshuman and Gaurav to end tracking they don't listen just do a formality for showing off to them. They are making stupid decision for going to client side, sometimes, give non sense type of work like make presentation on modules of project you are working on and give it to client visiting client side. They review my presentation in such a way that policeman ask them to take reaction by calling me and find out mistakes in my presentation in order to harass me for their enjoyment. Why they make me travel to client side and taking stupid decisions because they know illegal machines are being used in order to control and hang my body here and there, they try to lower my breathing and energy so I get exhausted and faint. They wanted to show how caring and sweet are them but actually they are rude and arrogant. They are psychic case and needed to be admitted in Asylum. They doesn't know a complainant cannot meet alleged person in tracking. They are just enjoying the role of their complainant. They don't want my tracking to end as they are in fear that I shall caught them being involved in criminal activities. They are using false evidence against just for the sake of revenge. Please give my complaint to senior officers in Seemapuri Police Station. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)