SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got scammed by an Instagram store (?)
DATE: 2023-09-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/16pfgwm/got_scammed_by_an_instagram_store/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know a lot of people are going to comment and tell me about the most obvious "stranger danger" social media norm but this isn't the common online scam scenario. 

I started thrift shopping from online stores from the beginning of 2019 while in grad school. I was very careful with making purchases and only shopped from stores that had good rep or were recommended by other stores. I was new to the environment but quickly learned that the indian online thrifting scene was small and was a community built by young (18-20yos) people. I made quite a few acquaintances through their online shops, mainly bc i saw myself opening my own store somewhere down the line but also bc the community is very welcoming.

Coming to the scam: I made have made several purchases with this shop over the years, albeit minor defects, i recieved all my purchases in time after a few days after making the payment. I always made sure to talk to the owner with respect and gratuity and over time formed a bond with the owner (F). She would book items for me based on promise and even asked me before selling any booked item to another customer. 3 years down the line, i found myself ready to open my own store. I approached her promptly as I saw she put up a story stating she was selling a bale of luxury semi loved bags as she had too much inventory and needed space to work. I spoke to her everyday, confirming every small details (potential products in the bale, approx SP, WP, P&amp;L) before finally deciding to make the payment. The bale was priced at 35k and she told me there would be an addition 3k charge for shipping by road or 5-6k charge for shipping by a private company (bluedart, delhivery etc). I chose the latter option as I wanted to recieve the bale as soon as possible to start photographing and marketing at earliest.

I was initially going to make an online payment (as per usual) but UPI payment limit was 2k and bank servers were down. She incessantly kept calling/texting me to make the payment ASAP as somebody else was interested in the purchase too and she sells on first come first serve basis. 

Since I hadn't activated online banking services, i couldn't make NEFT etc payment from my bank. So i decided since I had all her banking details I would just directly deposit the money in her account from her bank. I deposited the money and she confirmed receiving it. 

Fast forward a week later, after continuously asking her about shipping details, she finally sent a invoice with AWB details and asked me to wait patiently and that it would take two weeks to reach me. My name was misspelt on the invoice but i let that slide. Two weeks later, still no word. I decided to check tracking but the AWB number she gave me showed the package was delivered, not to me but somewhere in gujrat. Even after constantly following up with her, she had a diff excuse everytime. I told her that the tracking details she gave me were wrong, and i can't track my details. She shared some delivery guys number who apparently did the shipping for her but when I spoke to the guy he told me he couldn't verify my parcel or details as the internet was shutdown in Manipur. 

It's been over six months, I still haven't received my bale or money back. The owner keeps avoiding my calls and doesn't respond to my text. I have proof of the entire transaction and messages that provide verbal contract. I have recorded the entire chat and have all her personal details including her pan number. Is there anything i can do to resolve this situation? I want either my money back or the bale with goods. Would prefer money at this point but please help me get my small business started. What can I do (judiciary) to get my money back? Do I have a case or atleast a police complaint? 

TIA