Subject: complaints against piyush pushpak (Coo) and director of shubhkamna built techhomes. Criminal conspiracy, fraud, cheating, forgery of documents with an intention to cheat and threat to life Dear sir/madam, Subhkamna buildtech pvt. Ltd. Having its regd. Office at 19-e, pocket-iv, mayur vihar phase-1 delhi, floated a housing project known as “shubhkamna tech homes” at plot no. Gh05/b, sector 137, noida, u. P. The coo of the company mr. Piyush pushpak has been a good and close friend of mine for past 12yrs. Piyush pushpak, chief operating officer at shubhkamna-advert (Sbpl) noida, india, a real estate developers (Residential, commercial, construction), md piyush tewari, brother in law of piyush pushpak. Piyush pushpak worked with me in tv channel cnn-ibn and newsx, renowned english news channel for more than 5yrs and known to me and my family since 2005, almost 12yrs. We both shared lots for good and bad times together and were in touch since then. In 2009, piyush pushpak after being sacked from news x in the company. He eloped with and got married to shradha tewari in 2012, sister of piyush tewari, md of subhkamna advert pvt. Ltd. Piyush pushpak became the coo of the company. Piyush pushpak use to meet me occasionally and insisted me to invest in his project if i wanted to earn money. Finally he lured me and asked me to buy a flat in his project at shubhkamna tech homes” at plot no. Gh05/b, sector 137, noida, u. P. On subvention scheme or buy back with 18 months whereas company will pay the entire emi’s for 18 months with written mou on stamp papers. Piyush pushpak promised me to share the appreciation amount on the property and he will bear lose if any. He called me many times, finally he did false promises of getting me good returns on my profile funding from renowned bank by saying that company has good connection with the banks. Piyush pushpak promised me that this funding will be for 18 months only as mentioned in the mou. Company will pay entire loan amount to the banks after 18 months. Finally they applied for loans in four different banks by saying that they will avail the loan from one banks and close the rest. Loan sanctioned from all the banks and shubhkamna pvt ltd. Transferred all the amount without my knowledge, banks are also part of this conspiracy. When i got to know that then piyush pushpak ensures that nothing would happen as company has good relation with banks and said they will close rest. They took three to four months by saying that they will close the loan with other banks but asked me to keep track on the emi so that emi amount would be credited on time. After 6 to 7 months, they stopped paying the emi’s of all the banks one by one. Piyush pushpak always pretended to be standby my side and was buying time and dragged this till 2 years. Now i am getting calls and notices for recovery. Finally i became victim and accused as well at the same time. I met piyush pushpak and piyush tiwari for sort out these banks liabilities on me. But they always promised for looking for some solution but never come to any conclusion. Banks directly transferred funds to the shubhkana builders, never asked me regarding the payment schedule. Piyush pushpak was in touch with me on mobile and what’s app but gradually he stopped attending my call and stopped respond on what’s app. Finally surrender his mobile number and operating with new number in new business. http://www.homesmitth.com/ Now banks are after our lives. My whole family is in total humiliating state and under trauma of banks threats and notices. Total loan amount is with builder and none of the flats are ready for possession. No work on site. Piyush pushpak and piyush tiwari along with family are enjoying luxury lifestyle. We all are suffering and are traumatized, facing drt action, please look into this conspiracy which put me and my family in this problem. We have life threats also. They are posing grave threat to our lives or and if my wife commits suicide due to trauma then, piyush tiwari and piyush pushpak will be responsible for same I’m not the only one, there are many more who have been victimized. I’ve all what’s app chats with piyush pushpak, company director and other employees who were in touch with me in this process or involved in this till now. 1.	What’s app with piyush pushpak coo of shubhkamna-advert (Sbpl) mobile number: [protected]_active: [protected]… operating new number and new company with name of http://www.homesmitth.com/ 2.	What’s ap p with piyush tiwari md of shubhkamna-advert (Sbpl) mobile number: [protected] 3.	What’s app chat with other employees. 4.	Rajender krishali: +91-[protected]/+91-[protected]/+91-[protected] Regards Yudvir singh Phone: +91-[protected] Add: 434, niti khand-1 Indirapuram. Ghaziabad-201010. Up Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (3)