SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Axis Bank Credit Card Fraud
DATE: 2023-07-06
SCORE: 42
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/14rwamb/axis_bank_credit_card_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Help! There was an unauthorised transaction on my Axis Bank credit card of amount 48000/- !!!! 

This post got a bit long, if possible please read it you might be of some help. 

On 14th March I got a call from an unknown caller framing to be from Axis Bank. The caller already had my email ID so I thought he really is from Axis Bank. They said I'm eligible for reward points &amp; I have to login to axisrewardpoints.com. I found something suspicious and I rejected. After some talking I disconnected the call. But then my credit card outstanding amount shows 48000/- due. 

Step 1: I head to Axis Bank branch and inform them about this transaction. They said they couldn't do anything from here, I have to contact customer care for this, they didn't even take my complaint. So I contact customer care and tell all this to the executive. They ask me if I share any secret information or any OTP, I refused as I didn't share any of that. But I inform him that the caller already had my email ID, he suspected that the caller might have hacked your ID for the OTP. He said he'll block the card and file an investigation about this transaction. I agreed to it. But then they issue a new credit card to me that I didn't even ask for. I call and block this card too.

Step 2: I head to Cyber Cell of Dhule City Maharashtra, I report this fraud and lodge a FIR. They asked me to fill a dispute form provided by the bank regarding this transaction and submit a copy to Bank &amp; to Cyber Cell. I did as they asked and submitted the copy and also the xerox copy of card statement. While taking my complaint they said if the issue gets resolved, please come and inform us. I agreed to it.
(here when I went to bank branch to submit the copy of the dispute they didn't even look at it and said contact to customer care about this, I got no help from the bank branch till today)

*A week later my complaint to the bank they took the outstanding amount back stating as 'reversal of the amount'. I thought the issue has been resolved by the bank. I called the customer care and they confirmed about this. So as the Cyber Cell person asked me to report, I went there and informed them that bank has taken the amount back from my credit card. So they take my statement and close my case.

Now after 2 months, the amount of 48000 suddenly shows up in my outstanding amount of the credit card. I call the bank customer care and ask about this. They say that an investigation was going on regarding this disputed amount and now that investigation didn't end up in you favour you have to pay this amount. (how am I responsible if I didn't even share any details or the OTP)

I again went to Cyber Cell to compain about this and they say 'your case has been closed we cannot do anything about it' I asked them to again file my case, they refused and now are treating me like I'm a headache to them (literal words of the person there, I heard) Cyber Cell won't take my complaint again. 

*Lodged an online Cyber Crime report, no response
*Filed a complaint with RBI ombudsman, no response
*Bank branch didn't even try to help or even look into this matter

TLDR, 

I have been a victim of credit card fraud for amount of 48000/- and I have tried every step to resolve it but got no help from anywhere Bank, Cyber Cell (online and offline), RBI ombudsman.

Now what do I do??? 
I'm stuck in this with no solution or any help. On top of that bank calls won't stop everyday torturing me about the outstanding amount due. 

Please help me into this!!!!!