SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: I fked up bad
DATE: 2025-02-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1il8pf0/i_fked_up_bad/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sorry for bad english. 

TL;DR - I 20M, paid my friend 20M , ₹12k and he lost it in a scam. 

So this friend of mine is my childhood friend and was always there to help me whenever he can, money help, general help, he was always the first to help, once I asked him to pick me up from 25km away from home at around 1am (after concert), he came to help. 

Today he asked if I had 12k , he needed urgently and said he'll give me back in evening and he never took my money and then forgot about it, always paid back so I trusted him cause of all the years of friendship and help he had given me. Now he call me that he fucked up and need to meet me, I went to his home and saw all the chats where he sent money to some "REVIEW TASK" group, where you complete task like fake review and they pay you for that. He invested 1k and got 1.8k, then invested 3k and got 4.5k and at last he invested 5k where there was a FUCKING BONUS DEAL where if he pay 25k he could get 41k, he asked 12 from me and paid 13 and then the group asked him to pay 65k so in total he could get 1.5 lakh and if he say no his money will be gone and of course he could not pay 65k and in few minutes he was blocked (telegram). 

I argued with him how could you fuck up this bad, my problem is my father don't work, he's I'll and my mother is a teacher who earn 7k month and my father had saved up money that he is using for my college, I'm in 3rd year, my father checks my account every 10-15 days and transfer some money if I need now if he saw that 12k transaction he'll get angry and I get that and I understand it's my fault too but the condition of my family isn't okay that we can manage a 12k loss, I'm searching for jobs but not getting any work from home or internship because at my shitty college (AKTU), I've to maintain 75% attendance and can't get a NOC for internship until final year (yeah shitty)so I can't leave college too, I don't even have money to travel to my college, I can skip gym fee, I can skip eating outside but the thing is there no income, so even after a month I'll still be in a loss and same goes for my friend. I'm feeling so sad and guilty cause I know how bad my family conditions are and I'm not scared of getting yelled at or beating, I'm sad that KNOWING MY FAMILY CONDITIONS, this blow is very big. I haven't eaten all day cause of this and this regret is killing me. 
 
₹12k = 136$, yeah it's not much but for me that was my 6 months saving and we're poor. 

I can provide all the proof of transaction and chat if anyone need. 
Any advice or help is much needed