SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: ACCIOJOB SCAM
DATE: 2023-05-10
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/13dir6n/acciojob_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Dear Redditors,

Recently, I was looking to upskill my coding and web development skills, so I joined a platform called AccioJob. Their website, www.acciojob.com, is not free, and they charge 1 lakh for their course or 1.5 lakh for a pay-after-placement bond.

Unfortunately, I missed a quiz on their platform due to unforeseen circumstances. As a result, they informed me that I would not be placed. I requested the batch manager, Nishi, to reinitiate the quiz, but she made fun of me by saying, "Your life must be tough." This made me angry, and I realized that if this kind of faculty is on the platform, it's unlikely they can shape students' futures and get them placed. When I contacted the support team, they said I missed the contest, and I won't get placed. This is the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard. If you miss one quiz on their platform due to any reason, forget your money and time you spent with them, and they won't respond to any further queries.

My biggest mistake was getting lured by their flashy website, which anyone can make nowadays with basic web development knowledge. So I started my own research about this company and found that their maximum ratings on Google are fake. Many students on Reddit and Quora have experienced similar issues. They just have a flashy website to lure students to get admission to their course. Once you pay them, forget your hard-earned money and keep chasing them to get placed, and they won't respond to you or send disrespectful responses.

I am not saying that every platform is like this, but my advice to anyone looking to upskill their knowledge and looking for a course that guarantees placement is to do thorough research before paying a single rupee to these new emerging companies.

I don't know what actions I should take regarding this. If anyone has any legal advice, it would be appreciated. I am mostly angry because of my wasted time on this platform.