SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Someone is blatantly copying my company.
DATE: 2023-05-18
SCORE: 44
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/13koqj8/someone_is_blatantly_copying_my_company/

--- POST TEXT ---

Okay so this one is really making me upset I own a company and one of my contractors never gave us commission which can sometimes go to 1 to sometimes 4 lakhs a year but after we found out about this we just cancelled the contractor. The end right? No our clients complained that the contractor was advertising his own company while doing business with us (that's like cheating in a relationship almost) of course all this we can't prove anymore so we let it be. After a while on google we found a website which whas almost the exact copy of our website and even the name was just one letter of (like if Amazon became wamazon) later I found out the number on the website is the same contractors.. The website has a copyright? Which I'm not even sure is legitimate because I searched it on the government of india website for companies and it's not listed and ours has been since 2016. Now I want some reimbursement because this man according to my calculations has stolen 14-20 lakhs of business from us how can I pursue this legally? Because I want to really get some revenge as this is a personal vendetta for us canceling a contract with him for his unethical practices.

Edit: since people are confused I have trademark of the company it is fully legitimate I own all the rights and I payed alot of money for the name as India has some wierd problems if the name has some specific words and I waited 2 years to get it. I'm sure this person who is doing this has not payed anything and he doesn't even own the trademark. But on his website it says copyright all rights reserved but when I checked in the government website no such company or copyright exists.

Edit 2: I want to ask if we have to give them a cease and desist letter before pursuing legal action because they might run away and shutdown this scam or whatever they are doing if we warn them also I have taken screen recordings of everything the number who it belongs to and the website the fake copyright the misleading name everything I just want to know how much I can get in damages and can I sue them directly and for what all can I do it. Because they stole business while working for us and now this wierd shell game they are playing.

Edit 3: in my business there is a kinda of mafia? I don't know but they openly force clients to spend money unnecessarily and the people he deals with give him a pretty good cut I'm pretty sure I don't think it's illegal but it's definitely sketchy that's the reason I opened this company so that I wouldn't have to give into this scam and so that my clients are happy and aren't forced into anything but these shady business practices although not possible to prove we're really unethical so we cut him out and he is spiteful.