SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Matrix Laboratories LTD
DATE: 2023-02-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/115j2dq/matrix_laboratories_ltd/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I was recently contacted by a company in India called Matrix Laboratories LTD for a job opportunity via text message. They are a pharmaceutical company and have what seems to be a legitimate website and profiles on Indeed and Glassdoor. Although leery, I accepted the bait, even though I thought it was bit weird, and proceeded to set up an interview with their recruiter on Skype. I didn't think too much about that because lots of companies do virtual interviews now.

So I got ready for the interview, shaved, put on a nice shirt (who wears pants to a virtual interview these days 😉) but came to find out the whole interview was via chat - no video. Weird.

After about 2+ hours of "interviewing" I was offered the position on the spot (again, another red flag) and was told I'd be paid $15 an hour to train and then it would be bumped to $35 an hour full time. Then they told me in order for me to do my job properly I would need a certain set of software and equipment to do the job, which seemed reasonable, but the guy goes on to tell me they were going to send me a check in the mail to buy the required items myself. Strange.

Well fast forward to today, the check came in the mail via UPS Express and I opened it to find a check for nearly $5k. All I can say is the Lord is testing me - I could really use this money (although I know it's supposed to be for this "job") but another set of red flags came with the check itself. 1st off, the mailing address on the check is for another company, EGiS Technologies, whom seems to be unrelated from the one that offered me the job. If that wasn't strange enough, the mailing address on the envelope is also from a different company, TRC Electronics, which is different from the one on the check AND the company itself that "hired" me.

I know at this point I should be well aware this is a scam with all these red flags, but I thought I should put this info out there in case anyone else was contacted by these people as well. Thoughts?