SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: BRL Packers and Movers – Beware! Don’t fall for them.
DATE: 2021-08-18
SCORE: 105
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/p6v3ek/brl_packers_and_movers_beware_dont_fall_for_them/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello people of Bengaluru, this may be considered a rant but, I want other people to be aware as to what I went through so that they can make more informed decisions.

So, one fine day, I decided to get my bike from Bengaluru to Ranchi, so I did what any sane person would do, I googled. One of the first few suggestions carbikemovers.in. They referred me to their long time partner-BRL packers and movers. This is where it all began, BRL people were very polite and came the same day for pickup and promised delivery in 4-5 days as per the norm. After this its all sh!t show, after numerous msgs and calls to get the tracking number, I was blocked after around 10 days before being lied to. Wow, I thought I am gonna lose the bike, after a day I was unblocked and the chain of lies began again, some of them are - 

1. I am driving now, will call you in 10 min

2. Your bike is on the way, don’t worry, will reach in 3 days.

3. I will share the tracking number in 10 min, etc.

Finally I receive the bike after 28 days, damaged, clearly had been in an accident, handle bent, gear lever bent, scratches etc the usual. It had also been driven for personal use by them as per the odometer. In the meantime, I also tried contacting carbikemovers.in, but, didn’t get any response from the trusted partners.

I know it was my fault as I should have done my research before booking which I usually do, but, what had to happen has happened and shd not happen with others.

You can go through their reviews on google and can easily find out they have done the same or even worse to many before me and will continue doing the same. they have even asked for more money from someone who wrote a review on google before receiving the item. Their 5 star reviews are fake and far from reality. Mostly given by friends and family. I would urge everyone who reads this post to go through their ratings and give 1 star if you also find their 5 star ratings to be false.