SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Experian scam or what?
DATE: 2024-10-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1gaq32g/experian_scam_or_what/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, let me give you guys some background here this is a strange one to me. I would normally see through most scams very very transparently. My mother is a bit less up on the uptake than that, but she's not stupid and would for most typical ones. I'll also add, that a local government agency doing a real literal bang up IT job, got their databases dumped a few months ago, and only like 2 days ago actually told the public about it and started offering free identity monitoring for a while over it. It's not been activated yet, it did just come in the mail, but I know this is a legitimate thing that happened, the local paper had a write up about it.

Ok, so earlier tonight, mom's phone rings, says Scam Likely, it gets ignored, as usual. Almost immediately it rings again, different number, that resolves to some construction company in another state. This goes on, until call #4, still coming out of the same number. She then answers it, and as soon as I hear the Indian call center I start smirking and rolling my eyes at mom and she's like yep, this shit... But at the same time I don't think they asked for any information that's really usable that they didn't have already.

Guy identifies himself as working for Experian, asks if this is her, she says yes. He then asks if she applied for a credit card recently, and she's like NOPE, and he's like that's fine, you're not responsible for cards you didn't apply for, so don't worry about it, but the fraud department will tell you more, then he sends the call to a lady in the supposed fraud department.

Then they're like ok so you got a card you didn't sign up for, don't worry about it, you're not responsible for it if you didn't sign up for it. But then they wanted to press into it more. They're like, ok so you haven't authorized anyone to get a card in your name? Nope. Sign any papers with personal info on them from any strange sources recently? Nope. and you haven't applied for an auto loan recently? Nope.

They did ask for a zip code once, I couldn't stop her quick enough on that one. Though it sounded like they had enough other personal info I don't think they were lacking the house address which one could easily resolve to a zip code with very low effort.

Then they very specifically told us the bank name, and that the card was applied for in Texas (no where near us) and who supposedly, did, a name we didn't recognize. Then they were kinda like welp, ok we'll deal with that then, without asking or anything, they made sure to go out of their way to have us write their name and employee ID down in case we needed it to verify them or something later. Last name was definitely fake (Smith) however, I wouldn't put it past an American company to have someone use a generic name if they thought their name was too wild for an American to write down in a case like this, either, wouldn't be the first time we've heard an Indian support line say "Hello, my name is Kevin" and said to ourselves, uh huh, I don't believe that one ;p 
 
Which did seemingly make this slightly more legitimate seeming, but again, some weird stuff back and forth.

Some seemed legit, others not so much. Not to mention the phone call was coming out of a number they definitely don't own or control had they been Experian, and I don't think Experian directly calls anyone over this stuff anyway, unless one had already signed up for identity theft protection already maybe? But again, the city's recent screw up thing? I don't know that they didn't automatically enroll people in part of it as a precaution, but I doubt it. I'm sure something was sus about this but I'm not entirely sure what they were could have been fishing for, it seemed like they had everything they wanted already, and weren't really confirming except that they called the correct person by name.