SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Almost got scammed at Kempegowda Airport
DATE: 2025-04-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1k362cu/almost_got_scammed_at_kempegowda_airport/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I travelled to Bangalore for an interview on Monday this week and unfortunately had a really bad experience due to the cab driver. I booked an Uber Go and the moment I boarded the cab, the driver started chatting and asking me from where I was and why did I come to Bangalore and all that. I feel that he must be a talkative and friendly guy, so just wanted to ask few things and so I told him that I had come for an interview and would be staying for a couple of days (1st strike).

All this while the guy was speaking in Hindi and asked me if we could take the other route since the toll fare was higher and he could save some money, I told him sure, why not. I had already calculated the distance on Google Maps and saw that I would reach my location by almost 90 minutes before the interview time. (2nd strike)

As we were about to cross the toll booth, the FASTag denied entry to his vehicle and showed the guy blacklisted. This is when the real scam began. First the guy started fighting with the toll booth officials in Kannada and then called the customer care number of his bank and tried to UPI the toll payment. This happened for around 40 minutes or so. Of course, none of this worked and in the end, this guy asked me to UPI him 100₹ as his balance was already low and his payment had got blocked. I transferred him the amount since I was already fearing that I might be late to the interview and I needed to reach the location asap. (3rd strike)

Of course, this was just the beginning and this guy again drove back and forth to the toll booth for another 10-15 minutes trying to pay the FASTag charge and then demanded another 250₹, saying that you can cut the amount from the actual fare. This is when I sort of realized that this was this guy's MO and I refused saying that I had a limited amount and would not be able to pay him any further amount. All of a sudden this guy somehow found another route for my location where no toll was required. 

All this time I was shit scared that I might be late for my interview and the fact that I was already travelling through a really secluded location. It is only when I reached in the mainland city, that I breathed a sigh of relief. Fortunately I reached to my interview location half an hour before. Of course, since the cab took so much time, my fare had increased from 820₹ to 950₹. I paid the amount. When I asked the driver for the 100₹, since he had not taken the toll route, this guy told me that the 100₹ was the additional cost for the AC (which was barely working) as there is no AC in UberGo. This is when I finally got angry and threatened that I would complain about this to the Uber customer service, that this guy paid me back my 100₹. 

I want to ask all of you guys how do you tackle these issues. I have to join my new organization from the second week of June and I am fearing that this situation might happen again.

TLDR - Almost got scammed by cabbie guy, tried to scam me of 350₹ and I ended up paying higher than the booked amount