SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: American Males aged 14-30 are the new face of scammers
DATE: 2024-01-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18zxnhw/american_males_aged_1430_are_the_new_face_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

There was a time when I thought of makeshift call centers in India as the face of scamming. Now, it seems the face of scamming are American males aged 14-30. 

Ever since I realized one of my students was a scammer, I’ve become very interested in how he was drawn in, successful, not afraid, and overcame getting caught to continue doing it. I’ve scoured reddit for stories of victims, I’ve tried to look at groups in private messaging apps, and I’ve generally prodded locally in my field to get first hand information from the scammers. 

They use telegram and discord to get instructions and then they run their scams, sometimes as simple as claiming to sell products that never get shipped, or offering to sell technology or information that is readily accessible at a premium (granting access to an AI chatbot for 50$). But the range of these scams is vast and everything is handled by seeking instructions on the messaging app (discord or telegram), then posting to some marketplace from a fake account (facebook is preferred for ease of access and age of average user), sorting through and replying to the messages and choosing who to run the scam on, and having a means to receive/extract cash from the victim. 

High school boys and adult men who live in their parent’s basement are perpetuating these crimes against Americans to profit rather than seeking to contribute to society in some moral way. 

While it seems the FBI is aware of the racket, and the traceability of these crimes are only possible with law enforcement access, very little seems to be done. 

I am a teacher and a student of mine who is a scammer nearly got caught earlier in the month (his friend’s mom found the texts and telegram messages from his friend (my student) trying to guide him through his first scam and reported everything to local police) and for some reason was not caught and the incident did not dissuade his scamming (his friend whose mom caught him stopped though).

So anyway, I know this much is true because I’ve gotten information about it directly from scammers or I’ve found “primary source” stories on reddit and seen some of the messaging apps group chats. But I’m here to see if anyone can add info/details. I feel I’ve hit a wall and cannot find anymore info. And I don’t have anything concrete enough worth taking to authorities

I don’t understand why this group of scammers is not talked about more or why they are not pursued and punished. The “movement” only seems to be widening and it seems to be a nationwide problem. I can find no formal mentions of this issue anywhere on the internet. Would love if you could share anything you can find.

TLDR American males aged 14-30 are perpetuating scams in USA with very little fear of being caught. More and more young people aspire to scam and continue to scam because of their success, ease of access, and seemingly no means of being caught.