SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: GoAir is running a scam and have held my money.
DATE: 2020-07-04
SCORE: 134
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/hl6w8q/goair_is_running_a_scam_and_have_held_my_money/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had a flight from Mumbai to Srinagar on the 3rd of June in Indigo. But it got cancelled some 3 days ago and the money was transferred into a credit shell. Therefore with no IndiGo flight going directly to Srinagar I decided to book a flight in GoAir on the 11th of June. However on the day of departure when I reached the airport at around 4 hours before the take-off. I was immediately stalled and not allowed to proceed by the security at the gates of Chatrapati Shivaji International Airport because the status of my flight was not present in their charts as of yet. After waiting for 2 hours they still didn't let me enter the premise sighting that they haven't been informed of any such flight traveling. Nonetheless I persisted and went up to their seniors and presented them all the details needed but they profusely told me that no such flight is scheduled and even if it may have been it's most likely cancelled and it's best for me to talk to the airlines.  

So I rush to the GoAir counter but to my disappointment it was shut while all the other counters of the airlines were well functioning. Therefore I waited another 1 hour for their counter to open. Now I along with a few passengers of G8-287 began confronting the counter attendant and to our surprise he told us that their customer care was down and due to some glitch some of the passengers of the flight couldn't receive a notification or any information regarding the cancellation of the flight. We're handed with another other blow when he informed us that GoAir was not flying to Srinagar from Mumbai until the next one month therefore we could not reschedule our flights. And contrary to this their sites and the travel agency companies still showed and continued to book flights to Srinagar which was called out as for being a clear case of scam at the spot of the event. Still we unhanded the situation as we were given a refund form (which I have a picture clicked of) that sighted our money to be transferred in our bank account's within one week. 

However no money was transferred into my bank account. So I wrote a mail to their feedback account a week later which was quick to give an autogenerated reply that they'd revert soon. Still I wasn't contacted by them. So another 2 weeks later I emailed the Nodal Officer of GoAir and their appellate authority. Again I was given an autogenerated reply of them reverting back shortly. They again didn't contact me. So now I called them out on Twitter and their bot gave me an autogenerated reply on Twitter saying that they don't give a refund to a cancelled flight. As if I was the one who cancelled it. And throughout this tiresome process I've been constantly trying to reach their customer care number. But they don't pick up. So now with every possible course of action exhausted what is the option I'm left with? Please help as they have held an enormous amount of my hard earned money.