SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Antwork's Fraudworks
DATE: 2022-11-13
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ytyljq/antworks_fraudworks/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have shared my story before in r/Bangalore some time back, telling it here. I've made some stupid decisions of borrowing money from apps as my father is ill since Feb, for which I've been paying humongous interest and still in need of money(5L) as it'd be extremely helpful to have one single EMI instead of paying close to 33k pm to multiple lenders.

In this pursuit, I came across Antworks, got registered there, received a call from one of their executives and he told that I'd to pay the subscription charges of ₹589 to get registered as a borrower. I paid, my request was listed, the next day I get a call from one of the loan dept guy and he tells that I'll have to pay ₹2999 for removing somethings in my credit report, idk what. When asked, he didn't answer properly and since I'm in dire need, I'd to trust him. While all this was happening, I knew I shouldn't pay a single rupee to avail loan and if any, they'll deduct from the disbursed amount, but since my fate hasn't been great from 9 months and moreover these guys have proper website, app, formal mails, etc which made it look like a genuine company, I thought to go as this guy promised me the amount would be disbursed in 15-20 mins.

So, the idiot that I am trusted and paid. Waited patiently for half an hour, texted that guy, he tells to wait till evening and I did. Called, didn't pick, says he's in a meeting and finally he calls and tells that I'll have to pay ₹2500 as NEFT charges. I got pissed, told him to cancel and issue the refund. A couple mins back he texts me and says that the service has been availed and the refund cannot be processed.

I won't text or call and add more stress to the already stressed brain and heart of mine. With full knowledge I fell for the trap, if at any given point in life you're faced with such difficulty, do not pay a single ₹ to these scums, they're leeches, they suck you out and hang you dry. 

And no, I'm not asking money directly or indirectly here, just wanted to spread the scam these guys are running.