SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Indiacakes.com is a scam website, avoid at all costs.
DATE: 2022-04-01
SCORE: 169
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ttk2jo/indiacakescom_is_a_scam_website_avoid_at_all_costs/

--- POST TEXT ---

I've recently had a horrible experience with this website called Indiacakes.com. 

I was searching for a website that would deliver a cake to a remote location in Karnataka. Almost every website said that delivery was not possible. Except Indiacakes.com

I place my order for a huge cake&gt;2kgs which cost me a large amount of money &gt;4k. Please don't chide me on this, the cake was for a very special occasion, as I could not be present there due to certain circumstances.

Payment is processed, I get my order ID, everything seems fine. The next day I get an email saying that the location is far away and extra 150rs delivery charge will be applicable and until I pay that, my order will be put on hold. I pay the extra 150rs for the extra delivery cost.

The cake isn't delivered, plus I get no replies to my mails. I send multiple mails and there is no response. 

I call customer service and they are so horrible that they end up disconnecting the call to my face without even solving my queries, this happens multiple times.

The next day, I get a mail replying to one of my earlier mails saying that delivery is not possible because the location is far away. Mate if the location is not under your delivery, why the fuck did you accept the order in the first place? 

The most infuriating thing is that they won't refund directly to my bank account or UPI ID, instead they want to give me some shitty coupon code for the same amount that can be used on their useless website. 

Guys, beware and stay the hell away from this scam website. At this point I'm mentally preparing myself to accept the fact that my money is gone. It's hard since the amount I had saved up for the cake was almost 1/5th of my monthly salary. Please guys, stay away from this scam website and don't think of ordering anything from here no matter how desperate things get.