SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Got scammed out of my savings of 3.6 lakhs and became a big fool
DATE: 2025-01-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1idpoaf/got_scammed_out_of_my_savings_of_36_lakhs_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a post from my friend who is too embarrassed to post this on his account here so got him to write the full event that went by and how he fell for this scam and got swindled out of his savings by these scamsters:

I had received a call from someone claiming to be a senior manager from FedEx. They told me that customs had seized a package going from India to Bangkok, and apparently, it contained six passports and a few thousand dollars. I was totally lost because, of course, I hadn't sent any package anywhere. But the person on the phone just kept pushing and said my Aadhaar number had been used for this illegal shipment. Then he said “okay, tell me your name.” I told him and he said is this your phone number? I said yes. They threatened me with legal consequences if I didn’t cooperate from here. Then he asked again saying it could be a serious case of misuse of my aadhaar number and should be reported to cyber crime wing. I got concerned at this point. Then he went on to tell me details so that I could file the complaint. Told me the package number, receiver name, his own name, employee number and everything. Then he went on to tell the contents of the package. Then he said I am forwarding the call to the cyber wing. He did it and now I was talking to a fake officer. He asked me what's the issue, where did I get the call from and everything. Asked me for my aadhaar number to check any records of illegal activities being carried out using it. Then he said that my aadhaar could be compromised or that I am one of the suspects in this case now. I told him that I have nothing to do with this. Then he pretended to interrogate further, asked me again and again how come there's this package, how I got to know about it, who am I, whether I am telling the truth, etc.  He then instructed me to be in empty room and lock the door and not to let anyone in. And then asked me to join a video call meeting for recording of my statement. Made me turn on my video, turned on his own video too for a bit showing himself in police dress along with another officer with Cyber Crime wing logo in the background making it very believable. Both of the men looked to be in their 50's and pretty fat/chubby based on appearance. They said that this call is being recorded and I should be truthful in everything I say and this will be used in court proceedings. Told me to not worry too much just breath and relax nicely, that they are there to help me out if I am proven innocent. At this point, they had my full attention and I was completely captivated and locked into this call with the senior officers. Said I will receive a full clearance certificate after the investigation is complete which is a very important document proving my innocence after verifying my accounts. Then for two hours this fake interrogation went on which I still didn't realize is fake and just tried to keep calm knowing I am completely innocent and can talk my way out of it. They sent me a pic of the criminal they were talking about and asked if I know him. I said no and they asked if I am telling the truth again. Then they sent me a fake letter of acknowledgement and a fake arrest warrant. The officer said since I am cooperating with the investigation so the arrest warrant is on hold. They said it's a very serious case and that I should not tell the details to anybody, keep my mouth zipped and closed and ensure nobody interrupts this official recording of statement. Said I should not try to hide anything and reveal all the details I can remember. They asked me questions about my bank accounts, all my assets and I kept "cooperating." Then they said that the anti money laundering is gonna investigate on my accounts. It had been over 2.5 hours since I was on call with these people by now. They said I need to transfer some amount to a given account number and it will be given back if my account turns out to be free from any links to the said criminal activities. The document they sent also mentioned this exercise. They had given it a name like "Rapid Frequency Test". I agreed and asked how much do I have to transfer. They said the anti money laundering authority is going to direct them. So now they were pretending to transmit directions received from this AML authority regarding which account no. and what amount of money to send. Also asked me to take screenshots of each payment I do and send them for the documentation. That's how I ended up emptying my entire bank account. Then they asked me about my other accounts and had them emptied as well in a short span of time. They kept probing me further to disclose other accounts as well cause if they found out other accounts, it can be a problem for me so I told him everything I know and could think of. 
After getting hold of all my funds, they said they can refund all the amount and issue the full clearance certificate only after investigation of all my accounts is complete. They thanked me for being very cooperative and making their job easy for them without much hesitation and appreciated me for being a good kid. They told me to pray to god and hope for the best that I am proven to be innocent and said they will call me tomorrow same time post investigation. Told me not to speak to anyone about it and I obliged. Its been several days and I never got any call backs from them. Realized I have been made a nice big fool and got scammed by those crooks.