SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: There are only scammers now, what is wrong with this world? Why we can not do anything about it!!
DATE: 2025-03-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1jl209d/there_are_only_scammers_now_what_is_wrong_with/

--- POST TEXT ---

Guys, I can't I'm litterly crying right now. I'm a private seller since 2020. I live in Switzerland and we have a few platforms to sell. Also facebook marketplace which probably every country has, and it's probably the biggest.

When I started selling in 2020 and everything was new to me, there was maybe 1 fake buyer from like 200 which contacted you. They just send you a fake post office link or something like that, but it was easy to spot.

And now 5 years later, on every single platform there are 90% scammers, I'm not kidding. Even on the platform which is one of the most popular and safest, there are also only scammers.

Yesterday 6 people contacted me, all of them were fake accounts. they all wrote the same, I'm 100% sure that it's one and the same person. 1 dude, 6 fake accounts. And there are many more, I don't know if this is a whole company to scam people or whatever.

They always sent links which was easy to spot that it's a scam, even on theyr writtings you could tell it's a scammer, but in 2025 they got a bit clever now. They all have swiss numbers now, and scam you via "twint" our payment app in switzerland. So instead of you get the money, they will get the money. I mean they still write like toddlers.. That's why they are scammers and don't work at NASA or something...

People in Switzerland are driving 1 or 2 hours to pick up an item, because they are to scared to let things ship and transfer money. In those 5 years, i talked to so many people who got scammed, I feel like, I'm 1 of the last 100 who didn't got scammed yet... They all went to the police and the police always told the same; Yea we are aware of it, but they are mostly from Nigeria and India or something like that, and we can not do anything against it🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️💀 Just imagine... But when a kid is on his bicycle at night without lights on it, 5 cop cars will chase you down with sirene .

 
I have always around 200 to 300 ads online and created a account for my parents this year too, They sell theyr whole basement with old books, games, toys, clothing and so on.. I made all the ads and they also have now like 200 ads online and I swear every month it gets worse with those scammers, yesterday 4 scammers contacted my parents. Like I said, 90% are scammers now. My parents told me to delete theyr account, they have no nerves for this thing, they will throw theyr phones soon out of theyr windows.

Long story short.. It's god damn 2025. Is there nothing we can do about it? Track IP address, raid those buildings in nigeria, india, or wherever and put them in jail for the next 20 years? I mean what a joke is this? Just cause they live in a 3rd world country, nothing can be done? 

I swear I can't deal with that anymore, always the same crab... Just imagine a world without muslims. Imagine this beautiful world we could have here on earth!!