SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Friend called "PayPal", was told her private photos were being sold and to send Google Play gift cards.
DATE: 2019-04-06
SCORE: 23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/b9zp5l/friend_called_paypal_was_told_her_private_photos/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have no idea what number she called, she said it was an "800 number". She was trying to resolve an unauthorized charge on her account. A man with an Indian accent asked her a few questions, and apparently at one point asked her to verify a code. He then asked her if she was a student, and then if she had "bikini pictures" or "nudes" on her phone. She said she had bikini pictures, and the man carried on to tell her that someone was sharing the photos on her phone on "social" and dating websites, continually emphasizing "your school can see this...your family can see this...your friends can see this." He also told her that someone was Photoshopping nudes of her and selling them.

He put on her on hold, and she's obviously upset, as any fifteen-year-old girl would be. I was already suspicious of the whole thing - how in God's name would PayPal know all of this? She had another friend get on the phone for her, which the scammer didn't seem to note/care about when he came back.

My other friend asked the scammer, "How do you know about the pictures being on social sites?" He told her that he "typed in the email (presumably the one associated with the PayPal) and the IP addresses showed up."

The scammer then asked this other friend, "Walmart, Family Dollar, Target...which one is closest to you?" He then asked her to go and get Google Play gift cards in order to resolve the issue. It was then we finally got it through to the upset friend that this was all a scam, and *another* friend proceeded to get on the phone and tell the guy to go fuck himself before hanging up.

Back to that code from the beginning - I'm assuming that was something to verify her identify for a password reset that she didn't realize, as she was unable to get into her account afterward.

Didn't see any posts online about this scam, so I thought I'd make it known. I'll try and figure out what the number was she called.