SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got framed into a Land Fraud case and subsequently got scammed by my own lawyer
DATE: 2023-07-19
SCORE: 29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/153kd1p/got_framed_into_a_land_fraud_case_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

1
 

 
I have a single mother, and she got sued in a fraud land registry case. Basically, a very distant relative of my mom, who is a lawyer (Z), became super close to us as her wife became my mom's colleague, and their family had been helping us a lot. He wrote all the sale deeds for us whenever we sold or bought any land and handled all our legal matters for more than a decade or so. The couple trusted my mom a lot, so they registered a plot in my mom's name to save taxes, which my mom agreed to.
 

 
A year later, our relationship with them really went downhill due to various reasons.
 

Z was scared that my mom would not give the plot back, but she did.
 

 
You won't believe what happened after this my mom received a notice from Z, one day that she had committed fraud and sold more land than actually what she owned demanding an outrageous sum failing which he will file a civil case. He basically altered the dimensions of the land and my mom on paper sold him some portion of subsequent land which she does not own and actually belongs to the government. My mom got criticized a lot as even after being so educated how can she be so dumb that she signed the papers without doing her due diligence. I knew her side and it was not her fault. She decided that she would stay strong and file a case as well.
 

 
\-2
 

 
A common friend recommended a lawyer and after consultation with a bunch of lawyers, we decided on going with him. Because he was basically super confident and gave us a bunch of arguments and how easy will it be for him to get the sale deed cancelled. Moreover, Z is a lawyer and has been practising in the court of our city for the past 30 years or so and is a well-connected, influential person by the standards of our Tier 2/3 city. Our lawyer was super bitchy about Z and his bad character which gave us assurance that he won't get influenced. After paying his fees in advance and other misc. expenses, he asked us to pay 55k for stamp duty used in the cancellation of the sale deed which we did.
 

Fast forward 4 months my mom calls the designated(munshi) person in his chambers to get an update on the case and when is the next date, The guy tells my mom that he has left the place recently and would like to meet her and will tell her something in return for some consideration as well. My mom got intrigued and affirmed that she can meet him tomorrow. The dude then says that they can ditch an in-person meeting and rather my mom can call him at 5 in the evening today, which she does. The dude told my mom.
 

 
\- No 55k has been paid and our lawyer pocketed it. He said my mom could check the file and no stamp would be attached which can be used to prove and confront the lawyer.
 

\-No notice has been sent to Z
 

\-Our lawyer does not even fight civil cases and he just delegated it to his friend cum mentee who is incompetent and has no monetary incentive to do well in our case.
 

 
My mom is really broken after this, she has been single-handedly fighting everything. I live outside due to my studies and my younger brother is quite immature and insensitive in this regard. She is offc not taking the munshi's claims 100% but does plan on confronting our lawyer and trust me our town houses the most infamous district court and lawyers, even more infamous than Tis Hazari lol and it would be kinda hard.
 

 

 

 
\-What should we do regarding the two situations in your opinion
 

\-and given I'm a first-year law student, i will read and research about my case as well, I wanted to know the relevant laws that can be invoked in the given matter.