SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Boyfriend’s parents pushing for marriage
DATE: 2021-06-18
SCORE: 26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/o24w6i/boyfriends_parents_pushing_for_marriage/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi! I hope it’s okay to post here. 

My boyfriend is from India, he’s been in the states about 8 years, he moved for grad school and has been here since. We met about 6 years ago and have been together since. We have lived together for three years. I’m white, from the US. 

We are both on the same page about not wanting to be married. I have never wanted to be married, and am content with our life together. We’re happy. His parents have known that he doesn’t want to get married and were never too happy with it, but basically told him if he was happy they were fine with it. 

Well, now they’re very much pressuring him to get married. His mom has gotten his dad worked up about it, who got on his case about it. My boyfriend told them we don’t want marriage but are planning for a baby in the next few years. That didn’t go over well. My sweet, naive boyfriend thought they just wanted a baby. They told him not to come home if we have a baby and aren’t married. It’s causing his mom a lot of stress which has now stressed him out a lot. 

I’m not sure what to do. I do not want to be married. I’ve been clear about that throughout my relationship, and my boyfriend has been on the same page. If something is important to him, it’s important to me, but this isn’t something either of us want. This is so hard for me to empathize with. I don’t get why his parents care. I genuinely don’t. I know this is cultural and generational but I cannot understand why a piece of paper saying we’re married is so important to them. I don’t get why they care because it doesn’t effect them at all. We have loved together for years. We’re happy, we plan to stay together, and again are planning a family. 

Is there a compromise here? I’ve suggested just a ceremony without a marriage license but apparently that’s a no go. Why do they care so much? And why do they feel so entitled to be so involved in our relationship? If we have kids will they kick and scream until they get their way if they disagree with something? Any insight would be great, I feel this is a huge crossroads for us.

ETA: thank you to everyone responding! Well, almost everyone. Shoutout to u/prettyscar013 for telling me I’m being scammed, that my boyfriend is a fraud, and that he’s scum. Get a therapist, man, you have issues.

Because the aforementioned troll brought it up, my boyfriend has a green card. And as far as I’m aware has no plans to sex traffic me, which the troll was convinced was the case. 

I want to add that his family are wonderful people. They’ve been incredibly kind and welcoming to me. I have a good relationship with them, and my boyfriend is very close to them. They’ve asked and learned about my culture, and have gone out of their way to share mine. I do want them in my life, and certainly in his. They aren’t bad people by any stretch, they’re great people. When he told them he was dating an American, they initially thought it was a phase/fling, but as we got serious they were accepting. We talk on FaceTime, I’ve been there and they’ve been here. 

I can’t imagine going no/low context with my family and would never ask my boyfriend to do that. Especially when we’re beginning to plan our family.