I am Rekhapadmanaban I was worked under government central police department then I changed my department as Signal and telecom department in railway Actually my mother have health issues and I have transfer related problems the main reason is my mother health issues so I gave VRS to that job … then I am searching for work from home job I didn’t get anywhere because my job profession entirely different so i am seeking to approach job consultant I was search in google and that reviews Sai educational job consultancy shows good reviews so that reason I have applied for job on 07.08.2023 the bill number :1945 initially there were told to send 1000 rs for registration fees for 2 interview allotment s then they said I got short listed in IBM HR post as well as they mentioned with 6 LPA salary via wts app then they said if you want to be continue with us you have to pay 50k … advance payment we can be assured your job with in 3 months (90 days) … I paid 50, 000 via gpay..But more than 100 days passed I called them they told the same answer this month first week company side update will be provide please wait patiently I will definitely inform you again I called them first week they said last week until 6 month got over of mine they said the same dialogue… I lost my patient I am very disappointed I desired to cancel the agreement and get back my money… i asked them please cancel my agreement repay my money they said to put mail what’s the reason for cancel the agreement I clearly mentioned along with money transfer UPI copy then invoice copy those things what they were send to me …. Actually pricy has follow s my job process… Meanwhile I called Princy she didn’t attend my call instead of that she sending wts app audio our company side call will be come on tomorrow they will said you the whole process about repay your money… then one lady called me in her gang … she asked me to put acknowledgment mail for future based complaints then my Aadhar card … I didn’t send anything still … simply they are westing my time and energy… I don’t know that girl s name original or fake name I think so… the girls who are all working SEJC well trained for this game … every time we spoke to them words do not match their words … now I am in very emergency medical situation … I am exhausted… I am going to give complaint against them at commissioner of police as I told them before if they do not send my money within 2 days money details full documents I have enclosed below … please hands together with me people who are lost your money…. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (2)