SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Arrange marriage is bad
DATE: 2024-01-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1afndzu/arrange_marriage_is_bad/

--- POST TEXT ---

I (28M) did an arrange marriage to a girl (28F). She is well educated, completed masters and was planning for PhD. Marriage happened within a month after meeting the girl without any dowry as none of my sister have given dowry. On the Chaturthi day, she revealed she have had periods and it didn't happen. She started staying busy on her phone, and she won't let me get close enough. A week passed. One day while browsing photos in her phone, I found a screenshot of her chatting with someone. It was a old chat screenshot saying "love you" etc. I wanted to confront if she still had any relation with that boy which she denied. I found few blocked numbers on WhatsApp too. She denied saying unknown numbers harrasing her. After few days, she threw away her Sim as well. My suspicion grew after this incident. Later with her permission I wanted to get a call list of her number. Which she allowed as she didn't know even though you delete history from phone, you still can get it from your operator. Things went pretty bad when I showed her call list (got from jio app registered already in her phone). I found she want constantly in touch with that guy since past few months. She also spoke with him the day she came to my house after marriage. Ironically that guy was a married man with a 7yr old boy. I didn't know what to do. I confronted her and her family, then they started blaming me making all these calls even though the list shows the calls are there from past few months when we didn't know each other. Her family took her (on 19th day of our marriage) to their own home. And started demanding money to get divorce. When I refused they filed a fake case to get my family arrested. Police did nothing, just got us bail even though they knew the truth, they said their hands are tied and they can't blame a female. It's been years now but still case is ongoing with no hope for justice and court has turned a blind eye to those proofs and granted her maitainance as well. Now she will enjoy her monthly salary just by staying at home. 

How on earth can someone be so inhuman to live like this? Little did I know me being hurry to marry someone educated like this would make me end up in such condition. It's been years now and I'm used to it. But seeing other people happy with their wife and kids, I sometimes feel what did I do wrong. Why is my life ruined?