SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Punjab BJP leaders meet Guv, seek CBI probe into official’s suicide case
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-25
URL: https://theprint.in/india/punjab-bjp-leaders-meet-guv-seek-cbi-probe-into-officials-suicide-case/2888330/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chandigarh, Mar 25 (PTI) A Punjab BJP delegation on Wednesday met Governor Gulab Chand Kataria and sought a CBI investigation into the suicide of an official of the warehousing corporation.
They submitted a memorandum stating that the death raised serious questions about the “abuse of power, administrative failure and attempts to shield influential individuals” by the Punjab government.
The delegation comprised state BJP president Sunil Jakhar and state unit working president Ashwani Sharma, among others.
Show Full Article
Gagandeep Singh Randhawa, district manager of Punjab State Warehousing Corporation in Amritsar, allegedly ended his life by consuming poison on Saturday.
Soon after, a video emerged online in which Randhawa was heard alleging harassment by then-cabinet minister and Patti MLA Laljit Singh Bhullar.
Bhullar then tendered his resignation, as demanded by Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann. He was arrested on Monday.
Mann on Tuesday virtually rejected the demand for a CBI investigation, saying that the Punjab Police was capable of probing the case fairly and asserting that no one will be shielded.
Speaking to reporters after meeting the governor, Jakhar slammed the Aam Aadmi Party government and alleged that it is “completely defunct” in the state.
In their memorandum, the BJP delegation said the suicide raised serious questions about the abuse of power, administrative failure, and attempts to shield influential individuals by the Punjab government.
“Initially, no FIR was registered against the accused, despite the deceased official making direct allegations. This inaction reflects a clear attempt to protect those in power. Even when an FIR was eventually registered under public and political pressure, the accused — including Laljit Singh Bhullar, his father and his personal assistant — were not arrested promptly, further exposing the lack of intent to deliver justice,” it read.
After the matter was raised in the Lok Sabha and Union Home Minister Amit Shah assured a CBI inquiry, the Punjab Police acted promptly and arrested Bhullar, the delegation said.
The BJP leaders also alleged serious irregularities in tender processes.
“It is extremely alarming that the father of a sitting minister was allegedly participating directly in the tender process,” they said, pointing towards blatant conflict of interest and misuse of official position.
Randhawa’s family accused Bhullar of subjecting him to mental harassment, torture and humiliation, which ultimately led to his suicide.
“Complaints submitted by Randhawa to the deputy commissioner in Tarn Taran on March 16, the managing director of Punjab Warehousing Corporation on March 14, and to other senior officers were allegedly ignored, indicating systemic failure and administrative complicity,” the BJP leaders alleged.
The delegation sought a time-bound and impartial CBI inquiry into Randhawa’s death and also demanded a thorough probe into tender-related “irregularities and conflict of interest”.
“The manner in which the Punjab Police and the government attempted to hush up the matter further raises serious concerns regarding the safety and security of the victim’s family. We firmly believe that only an independent central agency like CBI can ensure a fair, transparent and unbiased investigation in this matter,” they said.
On Saturday night, Amritsar Police booked Bhullar, his father Sukhdev Singh Bhullar and personal assistant Dilbag Singh under Sections 108 (abetment of suicide), 351 (3) (criminal intimidation) and 3 (5) (common intention) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita.
In her complaint lodged with the police, Randhawa’s wife Upinder Kaur claimed that her husband was constantly pressurised to allot a warehouse tender to Bhullar’s father.
The trio had even threatened to harm Randhawa and his family if the tender was not approved in the name of Bhullar’s father Sukhdev, the complaint said.
As per the FIR, Randhawa was called to Bhullar’s residence on March 13 in Patti, where he was allegedly humiliated and assaulted. PTI CHS RUK RUK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.