SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam by Ola cab drivers
DATE: 2024-01-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/199mmhk/scam_by_ola_cab_drivers/

--- POST TEXT ---

Came across this a few days ago. 

I took a cab from the Mumbai Airport. Had already selected Ola postpaid as the payment method. 

When I sat in the cab the driver told me that he has just signed up with Ola and being the weekend and holidays his bank account will not be added till the next 3-4 days. He told me to change the mode of payment and pay cash/Gpay. 

Because I tried and couldn’t do it I told him its not possible and to cancel. He told me to give my phone as its in another screen. (I was inside the cab, overlooking when he tried to do the same thing I did and failed) He then told me that he had successfully changed it. 

During the ride I checked in the app. The payment method and ride details were still the same. 

At the destination the driver asked for cash, I told him to stop the ride first. 

Once the ride was over, I could see that the money was charged to the postpaid account. I confronted the driver with this information. He then went to explain that there is a feature on his end, where he can take a selfie or a live picture on the app to take direct payment. I told him he can just wait a few days and get the money from the Ola system. He Denied and insisted on cash or Gpay. 

He would not let me go, so I told him to give a phone number to do the UPI on and I also checked the number by calling on it. (I had smelled a scam, so by doing this, I could at least provide some additional and important details about the scammer)

I called Ola support the next day, narrated the incident. They told me that I will get and email and I have to respond with the UPI screenshot. 

\- I asked the representative ‘what If I paid cash?’ she replied something along the line of: ‘that is not verifiable so they can’t do anything’ 

\- I then asked if there is a feature for drivers to take cash/Gpay/UPI with selfie or picture? I Did not get any answer for that. Just that they will look into the case.

The next day after replying to the email I got a refund on the App screen. 

TL:DR

No matter what story the drivers give, don’t pay cash/UPI to Ola drivers if its prepaid or postpaid. 

If you really have to, then only pay UPI, Ola will not help you if you pay cash.