SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Ingenious. These criminals are really coming up with innovative ways to scam
DATE: 2024-02-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1agtl9u/ingenious_these_criminals_are_really_coming_up/

--- POST TEXT ---

I googled "tiffin service" near me and saw some hits. Decided to contact one, and was not suspicious because there were 14 reviews and ratings (which imo is alright for a hyper local home based tiffin service.) 

He sounded sweet and innocent and gave me all the details, asked for my location, and even the timing at which I prefer it. 

He then said I could try out the food for a few days but he needs an advance of ₹1000 as a deposit to pay the delivery guy. (One of the reviews even said "it may be raining cats and dogs but it doesn't stop delivery bhaiya")

So i thought okay, a reasonable bargain and paid the money. I had my suspicions throughout, but I guess I was just excited to find a tiffin service and wanted to get back to work asap and so did not do my due diligence. Should have erred on the side of caution.

Half an hour later, he calls me and starts spewing bullshit about "madam slip nahi nikal raha aap air 1000 pay kr dijiye I will return it in 2 mins ok" and this is when all my alarm bells went offfff. I told him I'll come to the location and pay everything all at once. He then went on to soft argue (read try his luck) for another 2 min saying things like "beta, I have other customers just do the payment." At this point I knew for sure I was scammed by this criminal. 

This is nowhere close to the 1000s people end up losing but like wtf??? I never knew even Google could give such scammy results??? I always thought that Google does its due diligence before listing places? I guess not. 

Anyway so I registered a complaint with the bank who then told me to call 1930 (cyber crime) and register a complaint there also. The person on 1930 said he can take my complaint but then I'll have to take that and go to the police station and an FIR will be filed and then taken up in court etc. I obviously don't want to do so much so I dropped it there. He also said I can raise a complaint on cybercrime.gov.in and then go to the station, where they'll summon this guy and tell him to pay up. But then again, this person is probably somewhere in Bihar (acc to Truecaller) so of what use would that be? 

It's not a big amount of money but my ego is mad hurt. 😒🤬
Anyway just wanted to come here and let everyone to be suspicious of EVERYTHING lmao. Even places you find on Google, especially the hyper local ones. 

P.S I reported that listing on Google and now I guess it has been removed because I cant see it anymore.