SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: [SCAM] 14 days in BLR and faced a 2 lakhs scam -_-
DATE: 2022-07-09
SCORE: 466
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/vv61le/scam_14_days_in_blr_and_faced_a_2_lakhs_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey all! I just wanted to inform you people about this scam going on so that others do not fall into this 

TLDR at the end

\[story\]

On 23rd May my 2 friends and I arrived at BLR to join our companies as interns. We were given temporary accommodation by our respected companies only for 2 weeks, so we started looking for flats immediately. On 26th May we were at Green Glen Layout, Bellandur when a building security guard gave us the contact number of a person who was interested in renting out his apartment(NOT in the building that the security guard was in). 

The person's name was Ravindra R, we called this guy and he came to meet us at around 10mins. Ravindra showed us a nice 3BHK flat in Green Glen Layout, at that time the flat was already occupied by 2 tenants, so he asked their permission took us in for a quick tour, and then came out to discuss the terms for us. We sat at "Chai Sutta Ghar", a shop right beside that property while we discussed the terms. He offered us the 3BHK flat at 30k rent, 2k maintenance, and 2 lakhs upfront security deposit... which we happily accepted (this deal was a steal based on the location and quality of the flat). While discussing the terms he pointed to a building in front of us and informed us that he rescides on the top floor of the building. He went on to say that "I own 24 flats in this area and most of them are on rent, I also own a diamond shop in Gujrat" (well this line sounded like he was someone who was trying to project himself as a rich person, like basically when we met him he was wearing a fake Adidas t-shirt and shorts... which honestly made us feel like he lives close by so he came outside in this outfit).

The next day we signed a rent agreement and we paid him the security money, he was demanding everything in cash but just to have proof of payment we sent him 60k through UPI. We got our signed "RENTAL AGREEMENT" from the court. The rental agreement stated that we will be handed out the property from 25th June (a date on which we mutually agreed). 3 days after this agreement was signed Ravindra called us and said that the previous tenant has agreed to take the property on a lease of 8lakhs so unless we take it on a lease of 8lakhs he will terminate our agreement. Well, we were fresh out from college and were on an internship so obviously, we did not agree to pay him that amount and asked him to return our security deposit and terminate the agreement. A day later he called us and said that the other party has bailed out on the lease agreement and he will honor our rental agreement. We stayed in BLR for 14 days and then went back home, we were planning to return once our full-time starts. 

\&gt;&gt;&gt; fast forward today&gt;&gt;&gt; for the last 3 days Ravindra's phone is switched off, and he won't reply to our texts, the 2 tenants are still there. When we told them about our situation they informed us that "just 5mins before Ravindra came with you guys to show the flat, he knocked on our door, informed us that he is the son of the landlord and that they are planning to sell the property and you people are the interested buyers." When we talked to the landlord he simply denied knowing Ravindra. :( 
Not only this, the dude has extracted money from various other people for the same property, I am afraid that few people have also paid him 8lakhs for the lease. 

We will be going to the police station tomorrow to register an FIR against him but I would love the help from each and every person here. 

 
TLDR; 
Dude rented us a property that wasn't his and disappeared. 

&amp;#x200B;

Here is his picture: REMOVED BECAUSE OF RULES

If you have any information about him please share, also we are pretty new to BLR... if there is some other grp like this subreddit please share the information in those groups too. 
Thank you. 

PS. We know the fault was on our part for not checking about the property, in our defense we were pretty new to all this.

[UPDATE]

Went to the police, they refused to take a FIR because apparently 3 people have already FIRed, they however registered a complaint and asked us to submit a handwritten letter explaining the story, screenshot of UPI transaction, and picture of the accused person.

PS. Ravindra's name on UPI is Sonu Naik