SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: How and where do I report an online scam?
DATE: 2017-07-13
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/6n2g1a/how_and_where_do_i_report_an_online_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

My uncle faced an online scam and asked me to help him where I have tried reaching Punjab police/Amritsar Police(as he lives in Amritsar) via their website where they take online complaints but they didn't process it as of now.

Here's the copy of detailed complaint I filed online on behalf of my uncle - 

A few weeks back, I received a phone call which was claimed to be from RBI by the caller(8512013934 - Kunal Mehta) and asked me If I was satisfied with my insurance policy. Where I lodged a complaint that I'm not receiving any documents related to deposits against my policy and I would like to quit. Later day, I got a call where the caller claimed to be from my insurance company and had details about my policy and asked me why I have raised the complaint, I gave him details about my problems with the policy. I asked him to quit the policy and asked the process for refunds where he said that only half of the amount will be returned and then He started arguing with me on the phone which seems to be a part of their plot. Then I made a call to Kunal Mehta who claimed to be from the RBI. I told him about what happened with the call regarding my registered complaint. He asked me to share the number and placed a call to the person who claimed to be from my insurance company and scolded him in front of me to make an impression that he's actually from RBI and really want me to help with my situation. Later Kunal Mehta asked me to make a deposit in order to terminate my policy and so that they can release the submitted amount during the policy tenure. I have a few recordings of the phone conversation available with me. I did make a deposit of 14,000 RS and then 74,000 in order to pre-mature my policy and retire the sum of the amount as soon as possible. All these deposits were told to me like the standard procedure of the policy. I haven't received any amount and this person called me again to make a deposit of 50000 as he said it's a tax which needs to be paid to process the policy amount. Summary: I am receiving a phone call which is claimed to be from RBI by the caller and have taken 14000, 74000 RS through Bank Cheque(s) from me. I am reporting this case of fraud and seeking police help under the provision of IT and cyber crime. For more information on the case please reach me at +91-XXXXX OR XXXXX.

Please give your valuable suggestions to help him out.