SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Got scammed out of my life savings and became a big fool

DATE: 2025-01-18
SCORE: 427
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1i3r033/got_scammed_out_of_my_life_savings_and_became_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

It all started when I got this call from someone claiming to be a senior manager from FedEx. They told me that customs had seized a package going from Mumbai to Bangkok, and apparently, it contained six passports and a few thousand dollars. I was totally lost because, of course, I hadn't sent any package anywhere. But the person on the phone just kept pushing and said my Aadhaar number had been used for this illegal shipment. They threatened me with legal consequences if I didn’t cooperate.

Next thing I know, they told me they were transferring the call to the "cyber police" to verify everything. By this point, I was freaking out. The person pretending to be the cyber police said my bank accounts had been hacked and that more fraud was coming my way unless I acted immediately. The "officer" then said I needed to transfer money to a so-called "alternate account" that supposedly belonged to the Reserve Bank of India to protect my funds. Totally panicked, I went ahead and transferred ₹2 lakh. Then, under more pressure and fear of losing funds, I sent another ₹3 lakh. He then asked me if I had more balance left to which I mentioned I had 2 lakhs more, but he said if I dont transfer all the funds then that will be lost as well and told me to choose wisely and not be a fool. I didnt have any time and went ahead with the balance 2 lakhs transfer too under pressure. After that, the scammer said I’d been a good obedient boy and I could relax now and take it easy - did some counseling for me to help me relax a bit more and left the call saying he will be back to help with the funds I had just transferred. But then... nothing. The scammer went silent and did not call back and did not pick my calls, and that’s when it hit me—I had just been scammed. I’m feeling so dumb right now. I’ve already reported it to the real cyber police, but honestly, I’m desperate. I just want to know—what are the chances of me getting that money back? Do banks offer any protection against scams like this? And is there any legal way for me to get my money back?