SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Phone scam: MY ENERGY COMPANY
DATE: 2020-12-16
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/kdwnoa/phone_scam_my_energy_company/

--- POST TEXT ---

I deal with Entergy in my area. I changed my number a little over a year ago and the previous owner of this number was getting scam calls, and a lot. 

I received a call from "Entergy" this evening, not 10 minutes ago, automated of course, telling me that my power would be shut off due to non-payment in 30 minutes if I did not make arrangements. The call went about as follows: 

\-Sent to a live person, a man with a slight Indian accent who knew I used Entergy in my area in the least. 

1) He told me that I would be shutoff but that he would take care of that (how was never established, sorry) 
2) He asked me for my name and address. They always do assertively because they do not know who you are actually. 
3) I told him, "I don't know, you called me, who am I?" 
4) He said, "hold on sir, let me computer warm up (I kid you not, LOL)." 
5) He told me to keep holding on. 
6) About 30 seconds into holding on he said, "Is this Mr. Edwards?" 
7) I said, "not even close!" 
8) He said, "well, sorry sir, but Mr. Edwards power at 1420 North Street will be shut off soon." 
9) I said, "this isn't another Indian scam call is it?" 
10) He said, "excuse me?!" 
11) They hate it when you take control from them, so I told him, "I better never get another call from you all saying my power will be shut off." 
12) He angrily tells me, "Fuck off motherfucker!" Clearly giving away this is a scam call. 
13) I may have told him some choice words myself as he hung up. 

They are getting smarter!!! They are learning to, in the least, fix area codes to local energy companies. If it were a lead that had my name and power company then he would have known my name and address most likely. I didn't get far enough to find out how they were taking payment. They'll call again and I'll tell you the rest when that happens. 

Look, I'm as Liberal as they come in the US, I can promise you that and I fight hard against the racism we see in America today. Indian accents, until something is done with these types of calls, I can no longer trust them. If my bank were to call me now with someone with an Indian accent, it would take THEM giving me my information TO ME before I could trust them to handle my business. It is unfortunate, but it's just the way things have to happen now-a-days. I near-refuse to do business with someone with an Indian accent, even the slightest.