SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Disputed a 5k venmo scam and WON
DATE: 2023-04-13
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/12k87xa/disputed_a_5k_venmo_scam_and_won/

--- POST TEXT ---

So yeah. I got scammed for 5k on Venmo. Thats a crap ton of money so you can only imagine how devestated I was. Thankfully I got my money back in full. I hope my success story brings ease or comfort to those in this same or similar situation. 

Unlike most my case started with my hasty desire to obtain a refund from a long ago returned Amazon order. I mistakenly googled the customer service number, blindly assuming it was amazon support. It was indeed NOT Amazon but a scam company ran by what sounded like Indian men. 

Upon giving them remote control access of my phone to ‘mediate the refund’ they instead 
proceed to send two large quantities of money through my Venmo. 

When I realized what was happening, it was too late, and my transactions were sent. 

I acted fast. I quickly disputed the money and called venmo support. I asked to talk to a dispute account specialist and dispute account specialist only. I asked to escalate my case based on the large sum of money and cited my situation under fraud and scam. It was here that they recommend I do not dispute with my back because it may effect their dispute. I personally disagreed with this recommendation because I felt like it was some HR line to protect themselves. From there, I could only painfully wait for a follow up email. 

Despite their recommendations, I immediately proceeded to call my bank to flag my account of pending fraud. Since nothing had left my account, they couldn’t necessarily dispute it.

I took as many measures as I could and filed an IC3 (internet crime) form detailing the scam. Although I knew this would probably go no where but a data base, I had to try. If you can file a police report of any kind, just do it. 
 
Meanwhile the Venmo email arrived: “We are not able to provide reimbursement or mediation in this instance.” My gut dropped. But I had some fight in me. I re-emailed venmo asking for a chargeback but was met with the same automated message. I decided to call support, re-explaining my situation to what sounded like a more competent agent. I was reasonably desperate and I believe the persistence paid off as they reopened the case. 

Then when the transaction finally processed and my account was drained of 5k, I called my bank to dispute it immediately. So now I had 2 disputes and crime report. I took all the safety measures I could. Now all I could truly do..is wait. 

On the 5th day after the scam I was emotionally drained but to my extreme delight I see my 5k back in my account. Safe &amp; sound. I later get an email from Venmo on my now closed dispute case stating “Your financial institution has advised us that this payment was unauthorized.”

MY BANK! Thankful that I trusted my instincts and that I am banking with a union that truly cares and protects their customers. 

My parting advice: take all the precautions to protect YOU and proceed with scams as diligently and throughly as you can. Actually read those scam spotting articles going forward because these scammers are evolving and working the system for unsuspecting people like me and maybe you too. But most of all, keep your hopes up during the ordeal. 

Good luck.