SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Ngidi, Natarajan skittle LSG for 141
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/sport/ngidi-natarajan-skittle-lsg-for-141/2894429/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Lucknow, Apr 1 (PTI) Lucknow Super Giants put up an embarrassing batting display with some questionable tactical calls to be shot out for 141 in 18.4 overs in their IPL match against Delhi Capitals here on Wednesday.
Delhi Capitals skipper Axar Patel opted to bowl first and even though the Ekana Stadium wicket wasn’t a belter, there couldn’t be any tangible excuse for LSG unit for its pathetic batting display.
A fit-again T Natarajan (3/29 in 4 overs), Kuldeep Yadav (2/31 in 4 overs) and the brilliant Lungi Ngidi (3/27 in 3.4 overs), who bowled perhaps a contender for the ‘ball of the tournament’, made life miserable for the home team, which looked as bad on field as it had seemed on paper as per the pre-tournament predictions.
Show Full Article
Captain Rishabh Pant, in a surprising move from the team’s perspective, broke a successful opening pair of Aiden Markram and Mitchell March and promoted himself at the top of the order.
Pant (7 off 9 balls) started with a nice bowler’s back-drive off Mukesh Kumar but in the next over was run-out at the non-striker’s end when the bowler was able to get finger tip onto a smashing straight hit from Marsh.
But to be frank, Pant didn’t look comfortable for once despite that opening boundary and it seemed more like a desperation to get his India T20 slot back.
Aiden Markram (11) hit a six and a four but DC skipper Axar Patel’s wicket-to-wicket delivery breached his defence.
The highly-rated Ayush Badoni (0) edged one from T Natarajan that was angled across but it was Ngidi’s new found confidence with execution of slower deliveries which became the standout moment of the first half.
It was a floating off-cutter that beat the dangerous Nicholas Pooran (8 off 8 balls), whose philosophy hinges on bat-speed saw the loopy trajectory of the delivery dip late. The ball sneaked between the bat and pad to hit the stumps.
In the case of Ngidi, there was no perceptible change in his arm-speed as he considerably took the pace off.
Ngidi, who has perfected the pace-off deliveries with variable lengths tightened the noose on the LSG batters. He also accounted Shahbaz Ahmed with a wide slower yorker, which is a difficult art to execute.
Regarding Kuldeep, he got a bit of punishment initially but he did the job well getting the dangerous Marsh with a googly that saw the bat face turn in his hand and leading edge flying to mid-off. PTI KHS KHS PDS PDS
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.