SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: CBI arrests MCD deputy commissioner in Rs 4 lakh bribery case
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/india/cbi-arrests-mcd-deputy-commissioner-in-rs-4-lakh-bribery-case/2893322/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 31 (PTI) The CBI has arrested two senior officials of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), including a deputy commissioner, for allegedly demanding Rs 4 lakh to make a favourable report for two suspended employees of the civic body, officials said Tuesday.
Deputy Commissioner Lt Col Abhishek Kumar Mishra who was on deputation in the civic body and Administrative Officer Devanshu Gautam, both posted at MCD’s Shahdara North Zone, were arrested on bribery charges, they said.
Mishra was the inquiry officer looking into complaint against the two suspended employees of MCD, the officials said. The suspended employees had approached the CBI with complaint that Gautam demanded Rs 4 lakh on behalf of Mishra to favour them in the inquiry report, they said.
Show Full Article
Based on the complaint, the CBI had registered a case against Gautam on Monday.
“It was alleged that the accused administrative officer demanded illegal gratification/undue advantage of Rs 4 lakh from the complainants on behalf of the accused deputy commissioner, Shahdara North Zone, MCD, Delhi for forwarding their inquiry report to the competent authority in their favour,” a CBI spokesperson said in a statement.
The CBI conducted a verification in the presence of independent witnesses in which the alleged demand of bribe was corroborated following which the FIR was registered.
This was followed by a trap on Monday in which Gautam was caught red-handed taking Rs 4 lakh from the complainants, the agency said.
“During further trap proceedings, the role of the accused deputy commissioner, Shahdara North Zone, MCD, Delhi, also surfaced. The both accused persons have been arrested,” the spokesperson said. PTI ABS ABS KVK KVK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.