SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need Survival Tips and any legal way to be saved or survive please...
DATE: 2022-01-26
SCORE: 84
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/sd5heu/need_survival_tips_and_any_legal_way_to_be_saved/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was a salaried Individual in a Leading US Bank in Bangalore, took a personal loan from Bajaj FinServ, 3 years ago and didn't miss a single payment for 1 year. For the last 6 months after I lost my job due to the pandemic i am not able to make payments and I have been taking a lot of app loans just to clear the Bajaj EMI fearing their harassment as they don't even give one month time and are brutal visiting my house, abusive words, humiliation etc.  Now I am behind Payments of all the loans that I have taken and it's totaling upto 15 Lakhs. I left to to Chennai following my job loss and went through an unfortunate divorce and still struggling to meet ends with aged parents and no revenue. MY EMI's will easily touch 60,000 plus monthly and I am now on the verge of getting a job that will hardly pay me 15,000 a month. The harassment and pressure has started already from a lot of Pay Day app loans that I have taken. As I lost a huge sum of money on shares and my divorce, now I don't know what to do. I have stopped picking calls from lenders due to very inappropriate ways and words being used as I am almost 60 days behind paying my EMI's. I think my account may not qualify for a Debt consolidation as I just received my offer letter and haven't gotten any paychecks in the last 7 plus months. I am scared of losing my mental equilibrium and even ready to serve jail time if need be rather than this pressure and agony of harassment. I am on the verge of ending myself considering my situation. (I got pauper due to investing in shares after losing my job and a lot of money, The only identity I have still remaining is my AADHAR card and some how surviving.) Pandemic has created a life ending moment for me and I am just trying to come out of it. Tried ending my life 4 times unsuccessfully. Now with the new phone number and bank account which is no where linked to my current city or address, can Bajaj finance and all other app based loan providers still track me and harass me ? Do I have to live my entire life in fear or do I have an option to start fresh by any chance ? I don't have any assets or anything on my name to pledge and even due on rent for 3 months.

I know I have been foolish in making bad decisions and taking loans for survival and trying to push hard to somehow come out of it, now after struggling for 6 months with no place to stay and the constant fear of getting caught or put behind bars is killing me.... Requesting some advise..