SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: Expert AGARWAL cargo movers is a Fraud comp!!!! Alert!
DATE: 2020-11-11
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/jrqxoi/expert_agarwal_cargo_movers_is_a_fraud_comp_alert/

--- POST TEXT ---

Extremely dissatisfied. 
Left me angry and frustrated. 
Please read reviews before booking them, do not haste. Your worry is not worth this circus and ordeal for the amount you pay.
You cannot go with their words,because they are lying through their teeth. 

Expert AGARWAL cargo movers
A/C NO- 201003295039
IFSC- INDB0000863 
Nigdi branch
Indusland bank

I would officially would like to request the concerned authorities not to let him register posing as a vendor anywhere. And his license to be cancelled immediately. I have filed a complaint on jaagograhak n consumer samasya, so they don't fool anyone else. 

They are fraud. I read some worrying reviews on Sulekha and quite justified.

My ordeal started with the payments with Ratan lal ( owner ) .
I had household items to be delivered from Pune to Kolkata. They gave a lucrative quote of 9500 during the pandemic time which i was happy about but little did I know that that was excluding GST which rose up to 13500. 

They were hell bent about this and with lack of any options, I had to agree shelling extra money. All of this money at one go. No matter what they wouldn't listen with part payment. 

Then the chase for tracking number. You have to keep begging for the number, which they'll keep postponing. My things came in a day later than committed with one damaged piece. The tapes of the carton box were open. Thankfully nothing was missing.

2nd ordeal
I suggested my friend the same transport as they were giving at much affordable rate. But with additional gst. We made part payment for the bike. But since he kept insisting on full payment, we had to agree. Now the real circus starts to unwrap. 
Post full payment which we paid on 4th June we did not get any tracking number. We've called his number at least 10-15 times in a day. But they would lace everything with a fabulous lie which you'll buy. He told us the bike was held in Yeshwanthpur - Bangalore due to corona scare and we haven't got clearance. When probed him for address and picture he obviously was unsure. 

We were panicking and made calls to drivers who picked up the vehicle initially, since he started avoiding our calls, this lead to even more panic and worry. Untill 10th June late evening he shared the tracking number on GATI courier. We instantly started to track and the docket number appeared as invalid.
I called up the customer care to verify and they didn't have any info. 

I texted Ratan lal ( main contact of Expert Agarwal) to verify the tracking number and he shared somebody's number to check. This guy confirmed that the bike was still in Pune Warehouse and had never dispatched earlier. It was 11th june and the bike was picked up on 29th May from Pune and we haven't received the bike yet. Wherein he promised the bike would reach within a week.

All that lie he gave us that it was held up in Bangalore due to corona scare pushed us over the edge. 

I also told him he had very bad reviews over the internet and I made a major mistake in choosing you,I should have researched before I jumped into the decision. 

I can share all the chat transcript that we've had. I would request guys out there looking for cheap transport vendors, trust me I was doing exactly that, please do not ever use Expert Agarwal cargo movers. They are a scam. 

We received thd bike by July first week and said the owner has to come and collect it from the transport station in Kerala and they wouldn't come. 

And the bike came on one piece ??!! No, it was damaged. I was ashamed to have recommended this vendor,utter disgrace. Please do not fall into this cheap trap,pay more and keep your worries at pay.