SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Online teacher predators
DATE: 2025-01-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1i8t367/online_teacher_predators/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello internet, 

I'm an online English teacher on the Preply platform, and have been now for 3 years. I'm very dedicated to my work, and many of my students are displaced people, or foreigners living in English-speaking countries, wanting to better communicate. Therefore, I'm often not just a teacher but a friend and a source of advice. Before I explain the recent scam - I know that I shouldn't give too much of myself away, but 99% of my students are legit, and I wouldn't *not* be there for the aforementioned. 

And so, this chappy... 

'Martin' first approached me some months ago. It is typical on this platform that students and the teacher message each other first before booking a lesson, of course to establish a level of comfort, and to explain relevant situations and intentions. My schedule had just filled up, but this guy continued to beg for lessons with me, as he wanted someone with my empathetic approach, because he was alone in the UK and was struggling to make connections. To be honest, his clinginess put me off, but I did say I'd let him know in future if anything freed up, as I had no reason to be suspicious and I did sympathise with his situation. After all, I am a foreigner living in Montenegro speaking intermediate Montenegrin, so I know that struggle personally. 

Anyway, his account disappeared, and a few months later, another account for 'Martin' appeared, getting in touch saying he had some issues with the last one. My suspicion started here, but I kept the contact, not giving too much away. He booked a trial lesson through Preply, but didn't show up for it. No answer to my messages, disappeared again. 

A few more months later, I get contact from 'Ben'. Ben had a similar story, was apparently alone in the UK, gave me all the sad stories. Of course I emphasise that the student is in a safe space with me, etc. He asked to meet on Google Meets and pay through PayPal - it's actually great when students offer this, because Preply doesn't pay the teacher for trial lessons, and I can avoid Preply's charges for future lessons. So I accepted, because I have other legit students doing this.

So, I met him on Google Meets. Nothing majorly odd at first, just that he wouldn't turn on his camera. He explained a sad story about how he found his wife cheating on him in India, so now he's in the UK with no pals. He said some other stuff about how he lives in Hitchin, did his uni in Manchester. I gave him nothing less than therapy in our lesson, advising him how he could better connect with people and not feel alone. 

He started turning weird and sexual soon after that, leveraging the story about his wife to lead to how he found a cuckold kink and how he wanted me to "shame" him and "tease" him...when I said I think he's after something else and I'm not here for that, he'd gaslight me and pretend it's just a mistake with the language. His English is quite advanced - he knows what he's doing. 

At this point I'm pissed - I work hard and I don't like my kindness being exploited and my time being wasted. 

So, I sent the attached message and blocked him, which brings me here - I just checked my PayPal and he has raised a dispute for both hours of work, trying to claim the payments back. The cheeky lil perv! 

HOWEVER this is where I have an upper hand - by doing this I guess he didn't realise I would get his FULL real name, email, and full home address in England. Had a lil stalk on Facebook, of course he has a wife and 2 kids. 

So, I had some ideas, but came here to the hive mind before reacting hastily from my anger....do I contact wifey, making sure she can confirm the identity with the address (Although with the very specific name, details and location I'm 90% sure it's him)? Do I put all his info here in Reddit for the wolves to attack? I would want to know if I was her, and I would like to teach this serial scammer a lesson, especially as he's now trying to rob me!😅