SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Tiffle with an astrologer(HELP)
DATE: 2023-08-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15jv647/tiffle_with_an_astrologerhelp/

--- POST TEXT ---

Will be deleting the answer within 24-30 hours due to privacy concerns. I request others to not repost this in any other sub.

&amp;#x200B;

Got scammed by a palm leaf astrologer last month(month-end). I figured out the scam on the same day itself.

Went in and asked him to promise on the name of gods and he denied to swear. I walked out without asking for my money. But during the beginning of this month, I called him pretending to be my relative and demanded and answer. He went on to say " Tera time sahi nahi hai"(different language) and then when I demanded him to talk , he abused me in bad words (which I recorded) and he cut the call. 

&amp;#x200B;

Now, today me and my friends were hanging out when we decided to do something. My friend dialled him up, and used the same bad words on him and mocked him for cheating (this was also recorded by us). He still asked us to "come and deal with him"-(a typical indian slang used by dacoits and rowdies).

So we went.

We kept our cameras on - one of us recorded video in stealth. I had my voice recorder on, so did my another friend. We were five people. He behaved quite funnily. There were three people, and the owner of the center, upon seeing us, pretended to 'Talk to someone about sealing a deal with the home minister for an amount of 500 crore (which he thought kids like us would believe, but unfortunate for him, we are not that dumb) and introduced a person nearby as a lawyer (did not even feel like one).

He then proceeded to tell us : 'Is this how you talk? You spoke bad words to us" - thinking that I spoke such words to him, but in truth it was my friend.

I recalled the former events of him abusing me in bad words and played out that audio to him. They were not able to answer. One of their guys started recording as well. I had my face clearly visible. I did not use any bad words, nor did I give him any threat. But his men were recording my face. They got disappointed and asked me to delete the audio with a gruntled face.

I told him " Did you read out what was written about me in the leaf or repeated whatever I told" and then proceeded to tell him the part where his scam got exposed. They said : " Yes, we repeated whatever you told (possibly to mock me) and he proceeded to refund the amount. 

I was more keen on exposing his henchmen : I asked my reader - "Did you repeat whatever I said or were you truthful about it" . He snapped and said - "Now that you have your money, don't talk! Leave " 

That guy who snapped, proceeded to threaten me - "We have some people to take you down. We know some people" (Death threat- he gave me a death threat). He came closer as if to threaten me. This was recorded as well ( though not clearly, but enough to be heard and seen a bit).

He then proceeded to refund the amount with burnol running in his blood. He warned my friends - this guy is on a speedy track to destruction, don't mingle with him( Looked like casting some sort of bad omen on me because I was getting my money back lol). Once I got my money, I proceeded to argue with his 'so-called lawyer', the owner and my reader. But my friends pulled me out, thinking that it was enough that I, a teenager, got my money back.

&amp;#x200B;

NOW, he has my e-mail ID, phone number, and my face. He also has this video of me (certainly not abusing at all, I used no foul language. Just calmly demanded my money back and an explanation). He might have some political links.

On the other hand, I have proof of him abusing and proof of his death threats.

Can he do something to me? We are almost in the same locality. Can he file a complaint against me on any basis? I don't want to complicate myself in any police matters, the best I can do is to tell the police nearby. I don't want to file a complaint or anything. I am not even willing to go the the police at all. Moreover, my parents don't know a single thing about this (sorry, I am very stupid. Kindly pardon).

Can I be held in any way legally for this incident? Can he really do anything to my life with the video he has?

&amp;#x200B;

Thanks in advance. Kindly note that I will be deleting the answer within a few days to guard my privacy. Thank you all very much.

&amp;#x200B;