SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: My father is cheating.
DATE: 2024-07-13
SCORE: 35
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1e22mlm/my_father_is_cheating/

--- POST TEXT ---

This has been affecting my mental health i would really appreciate if someone gave me some good advice.

My father has been cheating on my mom which I got to know about few years ago. I 19m was living with it until now but I just want this all to end. My father had an affair with a woman in 2012 when the family members found out he gave the explanation that he was threatened and that he was a victim to which our family somehow believed and stood with him. My mother got mad about it but still didn’t left him. My father said that he was being blackmailed by the other woman and that she threatened him if he doesn’t continue this affair she will come to his home and shame him in public. My family tried to fight but later on it all went silent and we thought maybe all this was over but…. 

few years later that lady came in public and said that she has a baby from my father to which my father denied calling them false accusations. My mother is naive and believes everything blindly so she didn’t do much except yelling fighting or beating my father. Now we come to few years ago and I’ve grown up now so my dad started sharing all his adventures with me to which he mentions that he is still in contact with that SAME WOMAN!! and he visits her every month or so that this all has been going on and it had never ended. Also that the child is actually his and that she still threatens him to this day like what the actual f*ck!!!
I seriously don’t believe any of this and I feel like he’s willingly enjoying this having 2 families. The woman he has cheated with is highly toxic she’s been paid monthly by him yet she still keeps insisting my father to leave us but he hasn’t and he even Named all his properties to my mother which I don’t understand why he did. To this day he says that she is threatening him about that child he has with her and that she will damage his reputation if he tries to leave. Honestly I am tired of this bullsh*t. I asked my father and he says that he hates all this and that he doesn’t like that woman it’s just because of that child and his reputation and now I really don’t believe this

My father now has a new affair and I’m just numb to it. I desperately want to get out of this and live my life without all this stress guide me with some legal advice

Now I somehow had the courage and told this all to my mother every single detail she was definitely hurt but it’s been many years since she’s dragging this marriage for the sake of her kids she isn’t emotional about this situation but now looking for an actual solution she has talked to few family members and is planning to visit a lawyer soon but she feels helpless and is constantly having breakdowns which affects me too.

What can be done in this situation legally? I’m sure my mother isn’t ready for the divorce but what can we do to end all this like any court case that will bring this to an end or any women welfare or anything that could be done.

Edit: the woman he is having an affair with is a different breed even if my parents gets divorced she would go crazy about it online boasting about it making posts just rubbing everything on our faces so divorce is a great option but what else can be done to teach them both my father and that woman a lesson that they don’t cause any problem to us. My mother being the actual wedded wife should have some sort of authority over this scenario legally isn’t it?