SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Continued: My brother’s wife lied to him about her relationship and he has decided to end the marriage. What are his options?
DATE: 2023-11-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/17uv43x/continued_my_brothers_wife_lied_to_him_about_her/

--- POST TEXT ---

Using a throwaway account this time. 
In the previous posts, I mentioned that the girl revealed her past relationship to my divorcé NRI brother on honeymoon in Kathmandu. He decided to leave her at her parents house and told them to end this marriage amicably. 

We were already aware that girl may take a step that would prevent my brother from leaving India. To dodge the legal troubles, he immediately returned the next day. Three days ago we received a call from DSP summoning us. We went to the police station yesterday. The allegation was that we tried to kill her by strangulation at the hotel, because the dowry demand wasn’t met. Seeing the seriousness of allegations, police was quite rude to us. We handed over the pendrive that contained evidence of her lies and told them the report filed is a cover-up. My brother made videos in which she accepts her relationship with s/o. 

We heard from police that the very day when the girl was left at her house, they straightaway went to the Civil hospital and took the MLR that specified internal injuries. However, the doctor also mentioned that he didn’t see any sign of strangulation. Now the status quo is one of the police officials personally told us that they want immediate FIR on my whole family so that we would give them big bucks to settle this issue. He calmed us down by telling us that her MLR has loopholes, but to exploit it would require money. He understood that her family was already psyched up and made this plan at the drop of the hat to defraud us once they realized that the guy won’t be taking her to Canada. He knew that the frauds are prevalent in this NRI belt as he said they deal with these lying girls all the time. 

Meanwhile we’ve received information from someone that the girl is still in contact with her “ex”. So the girl lied again that it was her past relationship. In the previous posts, several woke women abused my family by blaming us for ruining the girl’s life. I hope they have now got the reality check, to say the least.