SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Coworker tried to frame us in an amazon return/refund scam for 5000$
DATE: 2024-12-11
SCORE: 26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1hbj2t4/coworker_tried_to_frame_us_in_an_amazon/

--- POST TEXT ---

My roommate and I work in the same company, different teams. We are friends with this coworker (let’s call her (HV). My roommate and I share all the subscriptions- I pay for few and she pays for few. (HV) asked my roomie our prime account details in the first week of Nov saying that she is going to India (her home country) to buy gifts for her family. So my roomie shared the details with her- and in the second week she placed an order for four items  which came out to 5100 dollars. She asked us if she can place the order to our house, since her apartment is not secure. We didn't say anything to that but we know how frugal she was, since she doesn't even take a cab for 10 bucks no matter how bad the weather is- she always asks someone to drop her off or chooses to ride the bus for hours. So we said you could have waited for thanks giving- these might go on sale. She then replied saying those are for her brothers and cousins and they will pay her back.

Nov 15th we received the order at our house- she asked us to take her our home after the shift ends and also asked us to drop her back at her apartment. This pissed me off and then I replied I will bring them to work tomorrow and you can take these home with you. We gave her the boxes and we asked her if she got all the items ? and she replied all of them are good and she's figuring out how to pack them for trip which is on Dec12.

On Nov 16th we are unable to login to the amazon prime and the email has been changed to a random "tutamail"- so we asked her calling why did this change and then she replied saying she was trying to get rid of the two factor authentication- because every time we login to order more gifts it's sending a notification to you. This started to annoy both of us-- and then she called saying she's having some issues at home that their parents are not allowing to marry her lover since he's not from the same religion or caste whatever and then their whole family started hating her for that reason. This sad story went on for days and then came in the thanksgiving holidays. Meanwhile on Nov 25th I have changed the email back and then she never reached out to us regarding the amazon login credentials again.

Then on Dec 2nd we received an email saying that to submit an ID to validate the account, again we texted her saying what is this about - then she replied that she don't want to go to india and she cancelled her plan. So she returned the products through UPS already. Then we opened the amazon and since we haven't got any notifications regarding the returns- we asked her if she initiated the returns for that she replied no I dropped all of these at UPS by generating the return label in the UPS store. This raised a red flag since there is nothing in the account saying the products are being returns. But she said that since she has returned these product of high value Amazon is asking for ID. Then my roomie sent her the License to validate.

On Dec 5th my roomie received an email again asking for ID at this point we are 90%sure something is wrong and asked HV whether she packaged them well. For that she replied yes and this is last time the amazon will ever email.

On Dec6th we got a call from her saying that she is going to india since her father is in ICU. We were discussing how weird her explanations are then we came to a conclusion that HV is on to something. We opened the amazon &gt; opened the messages and then the customer service chat history. Then everything

From Nov 16th onwards- once the email has been changed , she reached out to amazon saying that she didn't receive one of the items, and in of the box there are dangerous items and in the other one all she received are broken glass pieces instead of products. Later she added a passkey and turned off notifications - that's the reason we didn't get any notification about the future log ins and the customer service chats.

In this whole case- there are no traces of HV at all- account is my roomie's, I own the place (the address) and the card is of someone else- her so called cousin. 
We panicked thinking this could be a identity fraud

We have reached out to our local police and given them all the information that we can - whats app chats where the IDs were shared and discussions regarding the email changes , Amazon customer services chats, Invoice of the order. Reached out to our supervisor at work,

I am just sharing this for awareness.

We were so kind to her, once she is sick and we took her to hospital and we invited her to our home to take care of her as she was sick. She was once used all of our Walmart plus rewards worth 70 bucks we were mad about it, but somehow we again gave her my credentials as I couldn’t able to say no and then she did all of this behind my back she tried to involve us in this scam.

Please be aware and don’t share your credentials/ personal details with anyone.