SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Insurance scam, critical info shared
DATE: 2024-09-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fi323k/insurance_scam_critical_info_shared/

--- POST TEXT ---

I stupidly shared all my adhaar(not masked), pan, photo, parents name, dob's and cancelled cheque with scammers. What should I do? What all possible scams I should be vary of now?

Problem is my memory is sketchy and details added up about a forgotten insurance policy from 2014, so I thought it was probably legit.

They said I paid a 50k premium and its been lapsed since. Now, 10yrs laters, policy term is over and it is being aded to discontinued fund.

Upon revival of policy or surrender, both required to me pay 2yrs or 10yrs worth of premiums in order to get my original amount+interest. I asked for policy details since I do need to confirm upin which they said they will share details of policy but only after kyc.

Ended up recieving emails for new policy from official company during the fraudulent process which adds another layer of legitimacy. 

I did not make any payments. They claimed older policy will be merged with new policy and I have to get new policy. They didn't send the older policy docs as they mentioned and instead I found myself buying new policy instead with no mention of older policy whatsoever. So stopped playing along. They just said if it's lost its lost. They didn't seem as desperate as usual fraudsters.

Thankfully, I did check with customer care and they said its a fraud. Should have done that first. The element of urgency was on point. I feel stupid. My bank says I should probably put a no debit on my account just in case. But I am feeling confident that without otp they shouldn't be able to get anything. I did share details with Bharati Axa just in case. Hopefully, it should be fine. Though I am concerned for my adhaar, pan, photo and cancelled cheque (facepalm smash). 

Funny thing is I still think that old policy might be real 🤷‍♂️. Probably why I played along. 

I think the problem lies in how the companies operate. I recently tried to login to an insurance provider but failed to do so, even though they have multiple login options. They informed that we have to connect new email via a written letter and only then can we acess policy details on their site. Even though everything else was same, they refused to give information about policy until that was done. E-ia connect to track in one place is good but for older policies its still a hassle. 

Another insurance we bought recently was also a very confusing experience with the agent acting downright dodgy and providing false information and later claiming no such thing was done. We did ended up buying that one but experience was crappy. 

Given these experiences, it is not wierd for fraudsters to feel legit. They said can't share old policy details until kyc is done. Why? I should be able to check on site and right away. 

Is insurance not selling? Why are people trying to sell insurance so dubiously? I am baffled; generally, these days.

Anyways, any tips as to what I should do and what I should be wary of now? 

Thanks for advice.