SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Purchased a new phone from Croma via Bajaj finance. It was handed to me in semi-locked state out of box. After paying all amount and closing loan, the phone is now completely locked and not operational. Bajaj finance refusing to help Croma refusing to acknowledge warranty for replacement. Help me
DATE: 2024-09-26
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fpmlrk/purchased_a_new_phone_from_croma_via_bajaj/

--- POST TEXT ---

I purchased a new phone from Croma store on EMI from Bajaj finance. Before handing me the phone, they opened the box, switched it on and installed their own app called Bajaj suraksha app, which locked a lot of features like OTG transfer, factory reset, developer mode, etc. The app was also constantly running in background and draining battery life at unusually high state and somehow disrupted alarm feature in phone. 

Then they installed Google device management app which further locked more features from phone. The phone was displaying warning message by Google that all my mails and personal information can be read anytime and can be deleted whenever they wish. And my phone can be locked anytime I miss the emi payment. This was a huge breach of personal privacy which made me scared to use my own phone. 

The phone locked the Google account to only one account. I was not able to ad any other email account to phone. I had seperate account for office work and was not able to check office mails. I was suffering due to this as I depend a lot on my phone at work. I was also not able to use my phone for work purpose due to fear of privacy breach. 

Due to these problems I was not able to use the phone since I have purchased it. I wanted to pay complete amount and close the loan and wanted this lock removed by earliest, but they told me wait till the first EMI is deducted.

I waited a month for first EMI and then the Bajaj suraksha app was immediately uninstalled automatically. The OTG transfer and factory reset all were operational again. I contacted and asked if everything was removed and they vaguely confirmed yes.

I wanted to reset the phone to factory settings as wanted to start fresh. Upon resetting the phone, it has now been locked to erase data after every 2 hours. The EMI were all paid and I had already received the NOC. They called me at the retail store to check. They asked to fill in my Google account details and now the phone is not switching on. Not even for 2 hours. It is constant state of loop on reboot. 

The guy is saying this is a software issue which he cannot help now. Croma is not acknowledging warranty and not giving me replacement. The phone is not operational anymore and I have lost 17000 in money, 2 months of my time, and also my job as boss fired me due to these issues. I am thinking about filing a complaint in consumer court but don't know how. Please guide me as to how to take legal action against this.