SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Digital Data Protection Act 2023: Lawyer’s perspective
DATE: 2023-08-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15sl5p9/digital_data_protection_act_2023_lawyers/

--- POST TEXT ---

So we have an Act which promises to protect our privacy and data rights in India. That’s the good part. 

Upon my first brush with reading the law here’s a quick summary of what lies ahead. 

GOOD

The wonderful part of the Act is that it is lean and mean, runs its length and breadth to 21 pages (including several examples and illustrations which may or may not be used by the courts later at the day) 

The penalties for data breaches runs maximum upto ₹250 Crore which perhaps might act as a deterrent for many but only time will tell if such hefty fines are going to be imposed. 

BAD

Exclusions of trial courts in India and creation of an independent Board to which appeal lies to TDSAT (Telecom Dispute Settlement and Appellate Board) 

The Board which will fall under the category of Tribunal in my view will bring the same problems as other tribunals in the country, want of members and their timely appointments, time frame to adequately decide the matters, expertise to understand the technicalities of the problems at hand etc. 

While the Act says the Board shall have similar powers as a Civil Court and be governed by CPC provisions there is much left to be desired. 

Every tribunal made for the masses in the country be it consumer forum, Rera, companies etc has struggled with output and input ratio to deal with case loads. Only time will tell if the Board needs to be replaced with active involvement of Court jurisdiction 

Exclusion of criminal proceedings and to mark real jail time while trying to protect data and cyber frauds. The absence of any such provision here leaves much to be desired. 

Another lacuna is why is the cyber crime aspect and involvement of police in data breaches and investigations given a miss in this?

However my mind still asked me one question, why were the Indian courts excluded and given a deliberate miss in trying the most crucial aspects of citizen rights and a by-pass in form of a Board being created. 

The Courts where we have the trained and experienced minds of judges to give better flavour and flexibility the most tribunals in the country. 

UGLY 

While no one can predict the future a mere Act is not a solution, it is the actual follow up by the authorities and quasi judicial bodies that makes or breaks the will of the people. 

₹250 crore sounds like a good number but bigger question is execution of awards/decrees of firms and companies sitting outside India. 

The other important question is how many Boards across the country will be established and how swiftly will they operate? 

CONCLUSION

You can google and find the act online but what is going to be most important is the follow up act of the government to actually prioritise its goals in protecting the data of the persons we call citizens. 

Till then it’s just a wait and watch.