I was working with HCL Comnet from Jan 2007 to Oct 2011 and after that they transferred me to HCL technologies payroll, my PF amount was transferred from HCL Comnet to hcl technologies account but my HCL Comnet details were not shared with EPFO and that why till date it's not updated on EPFO portal. I am continiosally follow with HCL PF team for my issue but till date didn't get any positive response, see below complete mail trial. [protected][protected] Hello Sandeep, I have raised new grievance rpfc dwarika and they said they haven't received my transfer request from HCL company, so request you to please look into this matter and send my transfer request or please coordinate with EPFO team, so that they can update on the system.see below comments. Thanks, Sandeep Bisht Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android On Wed, 8 Sep 2021 at 20:15, Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) wrote: Classification: Public You need to raise a grievance on EPFO portal(https://epfigms.gov.in/Grievance/GrievanceMaster)  do select the radio button “Others” and proceed. Do mention your PENSION number and ask them to provide status of your request From: sandeep bisht Sent: 08 September 2021 12:38 To: Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) ; Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) ; Kapil Dev Cc: ro.[protected]@epfindia.gov.in Subject: RE: Pension Yrs not transferred- Elf complaint no. HRGGN/E/2021/41149 [CAUTION: This Email is from outside the Organization. Unless you trust the sender, Don’t click links or open attachments as it may be a Phishing email, which can steal your Information and compromise your Computer.] I am not able to choose location..Please help me to link my Comnet PF account with my UAN on my EPFO portal first. Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android On Thu, 19 Aug 2021 at 23:46, sandeep bisht wrote: How to select the location, it's automatically populated based on the PF accounts linked with UAN number, but here problem is my HCL Comnet PF account  not linked so I can't choose the location and proceed further. Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android On Thu, 19 Aug 2021 at 21:22, Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) wrote: Classification: Public Please raise the grievance rpfc dwarka From: sandeep bisht Sent: 18 August 2021 13:38 To: Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) ; Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) ; Kapil Dev Cc: pfhelpdesk ; fnfsettlement ; ro.[protected]@epfindia.gov.in Subject: RE: Pension Yrs not transferred- Elf complaint no. HRGGN/E/2021/41149 [CAUTION: This Email is from outside the Organization. Unless you trust the sender, Don’t click links or open attachments as it may be a Phishing email, which can steal your Information and compromise your Computer.] Hello Sandeep/ PFhelpdesk Team Please help me to resolve my query and if you are not the right person then please connect me with concern person. I can expect some response from your end. Thanks, Sandeep Bisht Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android On Tue, 17 Aug 2021 at 10:57, sandeep bisht wrote: Hello Sandeep, Please find attached grievance request status and they contact with HCL team for the same. so please check and do the needful ASAP. Thanks, Sandeep Bisht Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android On Mon, 2 Aug 2021 at 21:30, Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) wrote: Classification: Public You need to raise a grievance on EPFO portal(https://epfigms.gov.in/Grievance/GrievanceMaster)  do select the radio button “Others” and proceed. Do mention your PENSION number and ask them to provide status of your request From: sandeep bisht Sent: 02 August 2021 11:25 To: Kapil Dev ; Kapil Dev ; Sandeep Kumar Sharma (FSS - ES) Cc: pfhelpdesk ; fnfsettlement Subject: RE: Pension Yrs not transferred from HCL comnet to HCL tech [CAUTION: This Email is from outside the Organization. Unless you trust the sender, Don’t click links or open attachments as it may be a Phishing email, which can steal your Information and compromise your Computer.] Hello Sandeep, Can you please look into this. Thanks, Sandeep Bisht Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android On Fri, 30 Jul 2021 at 14:58, sandeep bisht wrote: Hello Kapil, Please refer attached my EPFO service history and it's showing DOJ- 2011 and missing my 2007 to 2011 service history, so kindly look into this and suggest how to update my HCL connect service history on the portal. Thanks, Sandeep Bisht Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android On Wed, 28 Jul 2021 at 13:37, Kapil Dev wrote: Dear Sir, Please look into this. Thanks & Regards Kapil Dev From: sandeep bisht Sent: 21 July 2021 03:47 PM To: Kapil Dev Cc: pfhelpdesk ; fnfsettlement Subject: Re: Pension Yrs not transferred from HCL comnet to HCL tech [CAUTION: This Email is from outside the Organization. Unless you trust the sender, Don’t click links or open attachments as it may be a Phishing email, which can steal your Information and compromise your Computer.] Hello Team, Please look into this and share the details. Thanks, Sandeep Bisht On Monday, 19 July 2021, 08:35:57 pm GMT+5:30, sandeep bisht wrote: Hello Kapil, I have been released from HCL and my total tenure was in HCL around 14+ yrs and during my tenure i was transferred from HCL comnet to HCl technologies. My PF amount had been transferred but my pension account/yrs not transferred or calculated as i can see on EPFO portal it's showing my DOJ 2011 however i had joined HCL on 2007. So can you please guide me how to correct it so that my pension yrs will be counted from yrs 2007. My Details are given below: Name: Sandeep Singh Bisht Ex. SAP ID: 40170210 Ex. Email ID: [protected]@hcl.com Contact No- [protected] PF Number : [protected] EPFO Pension Num [protected] UANNO:[protected] Date of Joining: 01.11.2011 Membership Date: 15.01.2007 HCL Comnet PF/Pension No- RPFC-HCL-Comnet-DL/19092/4670 Please let me know if you want some more information. i am really look into your response and appreciate your help on this matter. Thanks, Sandeep Bisht ::DISCLAIMER:: The contents of this e-mail and any attachment(s) are confidential and intended for the named recipient(s) only. E-mail transmission is not guaranteed to be secure or error-free as information could be intercepted, corrupted, lost, destroyed, arrive late or incomplete, or may contain viruses in transmission. The e mail and its contents (with or without referred errors) shall therefore not attach any liability on the originator or HCL or its affiliates. Views or opinions, if any, presented in this email are solely those of the author and may not necessarily reflect the views or opinions of HCL or its affiliates. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, modification, distribution and / or publication of this message without the prior written consent of authorized representative of HCL is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email in error please delete it and notify the sender immediately. Before opening any email and/or attachments, please check them for viruses and other defects. Show less Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (0)