SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Debt trap - stress - depression
DATE: 2024-04-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1c2upb3/debt_trap_stress_depression/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello guys, First of all sorry for my bad english. I am 26 years old from bangalore. I had taken personal loan of 5 lakhs in October 2022. I used some of that money to setup a graphics design and web design agency. And kept around 3 lakhs as reserved to manage my expenses for a year. You may ask how I got 5 lakhs loan. My answer for that is I worked in concentrix company for 10 months. From that employment status, I took multiple credit cards, maintained good cibil score and eventually got a loan later. Then I left the job thinking of giving time to my business which was my biggest mistake. Hence now comes the saddest part of my life. One day a medical emergency arrives in our family. I spent all my reserved amount and savings on that medical emergency. I spent around 4 lakhs.

Now I had a debt of again 5 lakhs. But instead of taking another loan I used credit cards to rotate EMIs and when credit cards were getting empty, I took loans from nbfc apps. This way I fell into debt trap of 12 lakhs debt. I somehow managed till march 2024. And I can’t manage my debts from may month.

My debts:

Icici 1: 3.5 lac - 82k
Icici 2: 2.5 lac - 105000
Sbi : 2.25 lac - 109000
Axis : 2.05 lac - 108000

Cc:

Axis: 160000
Sbi: 100000
Hdfc: 25000
Icici: 130000

Nbfc:

Slice: 60000
Zestmoney: 30000
Paytm loan: 30000

Now my main issue is: To not to make my situation even worse I joined my previous job from which I get 20k stable income monthly. I also borrowed some amount from friends and family. But it wasn’t enough the above debts are ongoing debts even after paying pack some amount after borrowing from friends and family.

I seriously have no money to manage further EMIs. My 20k is being spent on paying back to my family and friends. I can’t able to concentrate even a little bit on my graphics design projects. Clients have already paid me in advance. I spent that money on paying back the EMIs. Now I can’t able to get any projects as I can’t complete the ongoing projects and also can’t get new projects as I can’t concentrate on my business. My mind is fully occupied by loans.

I delayed payments till march month. I was about to default on my loans and credit cards and nbfc apps but somehow managed to arrange the money to pay minimum balance. I have 20 to 25 late payment remarks in my cibil report with a score of around 700. But from past 10 days I haven’t paid nbfc app loans. Hence I guess my current score would be around 650.

I am looking for a personal loan of 9 lakhs. With this money I can refill my credit cards, close nbfc loans and manage my expenses till one year so that I can grow my business and get is back on track life before. I can generate upto 40 to 50k from my business.

But I need 10 lakhs urgently to end this stress. From may 2024 banks, agents, friends will start calling for their money. And I am left with 2000rs in my account.

Seriously that 9 to 10 lakhs will be my golden key for a better future. So as now my cibil report is fucked, will I get a loan of 9 lakhs from banks, nbfc or private lenders?. I don’t know how to approach them and convince managers. Currently I have 1 month salary slip and 1 year ITR as documents. With that I have udham certificate, no gst certificate. I can’t pledge our house for mortgage loan as we are a joint family. I basically don’t have anything to opt a secured loan. And my family and friends also don’t have any money to give me.

Hence I badly needs a 9 lakhs loan to come out of this stress and work peacefully. I don’t know which lender should I approach and how should I approach to convince them on my bad cibil profile. I don’t have a single default remark in my profile, but have late payment and bad credit utilisation remarks.

These calls from agents, banks getting me into depression and making things I don’t even imagine. Yesterday I went to buy KCN to end myself then I somehow controlled myself and convinced myself to take the help of reddit. If I don’t get that 9 lakhs loan, I don’t think I will survive. Reddit is my last hope to look for an advice and for a guidance. Please help to me to procure 9 lakhs loan on my bad cibil profile.

I don’t why bad things happen to good people. I want to come out of this situation and want to live happily with my family and friends like before by returning their hard earned money. I currently can’t able to concentrate on my work. I’m even skipping my meals because of this mental harassment. Please help me. I will be available to meet you if you want to advice and guide me in person. I can meet near ecospace business tech park bellandur, bangalore. I really want to come out of this stress.