SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Indian oil petrol bunk scams.
DATE: 2023-05-11
SCORE: 60
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/13eim4s/indian_oil_petrol_bunk_scams/

--- POST TEXT ---

From the previous month, google pay started their loyalty program to Indian oil customers. They probably tied up for symbiotic growth.

In the end, this just means the customers are getting great benefits in the form of redeemable points, for using Google pay and staying loyal to Indian oil. 

This system worked for a while and I got few points in my bag. But for the past few weeks I noticed that every Indian oil bunks across Bangalore have removed QR codes of their UPIs. When you ask for a code, they give a piece of paper with the code printed on it or they take out their personal phone and showed me the their code. None of them are merchant codes or official Indian oil corporation codes. THEY ARE THEIR PERSONAL ACCOUNT CODES!

Now what I understood from this is that they make our payments to their personal accounts and then they note down every payment in a ledger (usually there's a guy sitting who just notes down whatever amount the petrol pump attenders shouts). Later they make the payment to their official account (Indian oil corporation account) and the bunk manager reap the benefits of the loyalty program. 

Why has no one noticed this? Why hasn't anybody questioned this? Why such scams keep happening? 

Ofcourse when I noticed what's going on, I went into the manager cabinet and asked him to give me the official account's code. But I was told that the code I was given from an antender's PERSONAL phone itself is the code while it's clearly showing me his name rather than the Indian oil merchant name. I didn't want to escalate the issue there and embarass myself. 

Can someone who knows what to do about the situation do something, or someone who knows someone from the media point out this issue to them, or at least tell me how to take this issue with the right authorities?

As a working class citizens, who live paycheck to paycheck, we deserve such rewards for staying loyal to these corporatios. It just hurts to see that those rich managers at these bunks, who usually wear thick gold chains and heavy gold rings all over their fingers, are reaping the benefits which was meant FOR the CUSTOMERS.