SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Found NSFW pictures of me on a website. Need urgent help! 
DATE: 2024-11-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gqdzaq/found_nsfw_pictures_of_me_on_a_website_need/

--- POST TEXT ---

Some nude pictures of me, without my face or any recognisable features have been posted on a website like only-fans. 

The issue isn’t those pictures. The issue is- the person who posted it has posted my full name, and a screenshot of my instagram photo (which has my face and username) on the thumbnail- making it pretty evident that the pictures are of me. The username mentioned on the picture used to be mine almost 2 years ago, i changed it and now said username is owned by some random guy on instagram. As of now, I have also deleted the photo that was posted on the website. 

The pictures are from 3+ years ago and not recent, but have been posted on the website about 15 days ago, in october 2024. The website is shady, not visible on google search, unless ‘my full name porn’ is searched on google. I’m working on getting the URL removed from search engines including google, bing, duck duck go.

Now about the website- it is shady af. The first thing that pops up when you open it is ‘POST A GIRL’. They show a thumbnail and 2 pictures, and ask for money to view more. Apparently my profile has 7 videos and 8 photos which can be accessed if someone pays £150 to the website to earn enough tokens to buy it. I do not think i have ever shared this many pictures or videos with anyone ever. 

The website is run under Pakistani jurisdiction and thus has v clearly mentioned that US laws won’t work in the ‘support’ section. There is an option that says- get my post removed. On opening it, it says transfer £500 to an offshore account or £1000 via paypal to get your image removed. I don’t mind paying, however I highly doubt the website is trustworthy enough to go ahead with said route. It also mentions that if you’re a minor, send your government identity proof and we will see your DOB and remove the picture. Even though I’m not a minor, I did consider tweaking my ID proof. But then again, the people running this website aren’t someone I can trust with my essential ID proof. 

There are a lot of posts on r/sextortion talking about this website by women of different countries who couldn’t get anything done and even had their phone numbers leaked via this website. So I want to proceed with caution. 

I do not mind hiring a lawyer who specialises in such cases and taking the legal course, but do Indian IT laws work on websites registered under pakistan?? Is there any way to get these pictures (atleast the thumbnail) removed? 

I have consulted two of my lawyer friends, both of them offered good advice, however would love to know more from someone more experienced who has the knowledge of IT laws. 

P.S I do not know who posted it. It is not my ex, or anyone I currently am in touch with. About 10 months ago someone reached out to me saying they found my nudes on some snapchat group, i just acted like it was AI generated and I was involving cops. The person got shit scared and started saying sorry and how he only tolf me because his friend knew me well. Similarly, another person reached out around the same time sending me a picture of me and asking for more or else he would tell my parents. I just blocked him off and went ahead w my life. Made my insta private for a few days and it never bothered me again.