SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: Tired of being lied to by recruiters
DATE: 2022-06-28
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/vml92a/tired_of_being_lied_to_by_recruiters/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am looking for a job currently, mainly in the BPO sector because that's all I'm qualified for apparently. I was talking to a recruiter about an opening in a fairly big BPO company and she told me that the shift timing in this company is fixed starting from 6:30 AM and fixed weekends off and a decent salary (according to me). So I said yeah fair enough schedule an interview and well see how it goes. The first round was an online test which I completed and was selected for the telephonic interview. I spoke to the person from the company about the shift timings and all and he told me that they don't have fixed shifts but rotational and you can get any shift from 3:30 AM to 7:30 AM.

The recruiter also told me that there will be both pickup and drop facility but the person from the company told me that there is only pickup available and I have to manage going back myself, which is fine but the thing here is I was lied to.

Moreover, now they want me to join from tomorrow but the interview somehow felt incomplete because the guy did not even talk about my role in the company and what is the work about and most importantly they did not even discuss the salary and they just want me to join ASAP.

This whole thing just feels like a scam to me. This is just one of the instances and similar things have happened to me before with other recruiters. I understand that their job is to hire people for these companies but at least be open about crucial information like shift timings and pick and drop facility.

When I confronted the recruiter about the shift timing thing she gave me a really stupid answer that rotational timing is only for the training period and after that, there will be fixed shift timings according to someone working in the same process. And if this is actually the case, why didn't the guy from the company inform me already? Who do I even believe? The person from the company or some random recruiter who clearly will gain out of me joining that company even if I'm not comfortable because I was lied to?

Sorry for the long post but I needed to rant it out because the whole BPO industry feels like a scam to me right now. I am not working these shitty jobs for fun and games and there are certain conditions I'm not comfortable working in and I believe I have the right to know all the correct information before I am scheduled for an interview.

Thank you for listening.