SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Kindly help me decide if this Homeowner is genuine.
DATE: 2023-01-25
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/10kvh8t/kindly_help_me_decide_if_this_homeowner_is_genuine/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello good people of Bangalore.

I was looking at a property listed on a popular brokerless home renting website and I feel it might be a scam. I'll present the details of the flat first, and then the points abotthe seller which make me feel this is too good to be true. Kindly give me your opinion if I should proceed with this deal.

Flat Details: 

1. 1BHK flat of on second floor of a gated society around 900 sq. Ft. Close to Embassy Tech Village, near Bellandur. 

2. Rent is under 10k. Even deposit is for the same value of one month rent. 

3. Fully furnished with Dining table and chairs, double bed, ac, water heater in bathroom, wifi. Maid service through the owner who lives on the floor below (as told by him)

4. Since I can move in only from 5th February, they've accepted to take a token amount of 5k. 

From my flat and house search in Bangalore so far, this feels too good to be true. I present the following points which make it suspicious for me:

1. The owner did not give their bank account or their wife's to deposit the initial amount of 5k. They said they bought the second floor with a partner and I should transfer the money to that UPI ID instead. 

2. When trying to transfer the amount through GPay, I was notified that the receipt (their friend/co-owner 's) account was assumed to be fraudulent. 

3. When I told them and showed them images of this issue, the owner sent me a mobile number who they say belongs to the wife of that friend. She owns a shop nearby, but then the number shows it was joined to Gpay this month of January 2023 itself. 

4. When I asked if I can send them the money to their account, he told me his is a salaried account, and since his company is doubling down on moonlighters, he cannot show such an amount on his account. 

5. His listing became a "property inactive" on the website, which stops me from viewing all the pics they posted for the place. Luckily, that feature/bug is not replicated in mobile app, and from there, I could still see all the images. 

6. I tried finding the name of his society as he mentioned on the listing, but I found the same pictures of the bathroom and balcony he posted in his listing on another website from another seller. This different listing was added a week ago, while this one was posted yesterday. I've tried calling the owner of the other listing, but I've not been able to reach them. Both of the listings present the same society name and the flat numbers differ by one digit.

I understand 5k is not a huge amount to give away if the offer was truthful, heck I was ready to give 10k as token money but I never presented this to the seller because he asked for 5k instead. My bigger concern is do I risk it, and stop my apartment hunting, or should I back off and keep searching when I could have had probably the best deal I could get. 

Please help me decide if this is a scam or is this legit. 

Thanks in advance.