SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: This case is concerning because the concept of family is in danger.
DATE: 2024-08-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1f11vmx/this_case_is_concerning_because_the_concept_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

My grandparents have three daughters they were not taken by their other two daughters during covid so they approached my mother who is one of their daughters to take care of them because they were living alone so they sold their properties and my mom sold her gold and they purchased a new house so that we can live together after that they gift us the house via a gift deed because legal heir issue can arise so after gifting their attitude changes.

So one day My grandparents walked out of the house saying that they are going to village. After few hours grandmother enters the house and along with her younger daughter, my cousin and one more family member enter the house and take all their belongings from the house grandmother says she will comeback but after one month cousin calls me and asks me for my grandmothers pension money as I have my phone in which their accounts are there because during covid they told us to enable their net banking digital banking, I deny it categorically i cannot access their accounts when the person is not present in front of me. my grandfather brought my cousin in the house and started threatening my father that give the money otherwise we will file criminal cases on you. Cousin started to intimidate and said this is my house and i will not leave the house. My father under pressure gives the money from his account to her and she leaves. Then the next day my mom's mama called me and then he started threatening as well as to what happened and vacate the house give 2 to 3 crores to my sister and you all vacate the house then we go to the police and we file an official complaint on the cousin and my mom's mama.
After a month an unofficial complaint was sent to the society and the police through email and post saying that we have kicked them out of the house with false allegations. Then after a month we receive a formal notice from the lawyer that we did fraud we didnt take care of grandparents (notice is sent by grandparents) but we have all proof that we have taken care of them along with that they have said that we have done physical assault on them.
Although we have all evidences can the law protect us as we are put under pressure to sign the cancellation deed of the flat. We are also contributors to the flat because there is cash component involved as my mother sold her gold too. If we sign the cancellation deed then we will be at a massive loss and all other relatives will benefit out of it. They go to the police station after we dont respond to their rejoinder and try to file a fir but the police only takes a written statement then we are called and we were questioned showed the evidence about food and all. Then they make a false statement that they gifted a car to me in 2023 police questions to me about the car i said the car is 7 years old it's purchased in my name 7 years ago m it's totally false. So the police tells us to wait us out and then he does nothing he tells us to go. We are put under extreme pressure if you can just read this and give us your advice then it will be a great help.