SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: i think my mums been scammed 
DATE: 2024-09-10
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1fdl400/i_think_my_mums_been_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

long story, sorry 
my mum became friends with the random stranger, an indian guy about 60? they met once and he went back to india. they kept contact online and they called often, this whole thing made a bit uncomfy cos he was a complete stranger and she is way too trusting of ppl. he introduced her to this guy, who is looking for a house where we live. he is currently abroad working and he’s looking for a house with a budget of a few million all cash. somehow his money is ‘tied up’ and he asked to borrow 10k, which my mum, being not very smart, decided to give him. her bank thankfully stopped the transaction and blocked her access to this account. i didn’t know half this info till today and i only know about the indian guy and the rich guy wanting a house. she’s gone to several houses and looked at many of them. she’s been very secretive about everything and saying it’s not my business. recently she told me her acc got blocked and this is the mortgage acc that most of our money goes into. this whole situation is so frustrating cos we are not in the financial situation to be lending money in the first place and with her acc frozen we’ve had to borrow money ourselves. she’s been annoyed w the bank cos they are taking a long time to get back to her but today she made me read an email for her and it said that they can’t unfreeze the acc till she provides all the info they’ve asked for, so i asked her why she’s withholding info. and then i realised who she lent the money to and i had to ask her many time to admit it, she sent the money to the rich guy, atp im frustrated and i realise this guy is most likely a scammer and i ask her how much she’s lent him, and after me guessing she admitted it was 10,000. in actually in shock at how stupid this is and how im having to parent her, and during this whole convo she’s acting like a 5 yr old, “u can’t tell me what to do, don’t speak to me like that, i’m handling it, u don’t know what ur talking f about, i know what im doing” ect ect. she’s just whining and fidgeting like a kid. i dont even care if hes a scammer or not but this just proves how naive she is and im a teenager whose having to look out for her like she’s my kid. she’s never met him, but she says she’s facetimed him, but she keeps lying and contradicting herself so idk if i believe her but she rlly doesn’t know anything about him and they’ve only been talking a few weeks. i know there is more she’s hiding from me and lying about but she’s not willing to talk to me. i’ve told her to talk to one of her friends and tell everything to them and let them help her but she’s not willing to let go of her ego and keeps thinking she knows everything. i’ve messaged one of her friends about the situation hoping she’ll talk some sense into her. i’ve also told her to tell the guy she can’t send him any money and see his reaction, she keeps insisting it’s not a scam and that she knows him. i asked her how she knows and she said “i know” yup. she’s also talked to the indian guy to check his credibility (i think) but he’s a stranger too.
is this a scam? and what can i do? 

update: unfortunately i’ve just found out more. she’s fully in love with him, and she lied a bunch. she met him thru facebook and they have been talking for about a month. he’s apparently in yemen in the military camp and he’s sending photos .. spoiler they are so insanely clearly photoshopped and some are just from google. i told ger this and she keeps insisting on talking to him to ‘ get more info’ i don’t believe her. this whole this is surreal, i genuinely can’t believe this. she’s saying ‘our daughter, our son’ LIKE I DONT KNOW HIM AND SHE DOESNT EITHER. i tried talking to her for like an hour, she wouldn’t listen and just kept messaging him, so i took her phone, we tussled around for her phone INSANE I KNOW and she locked herself in the bathroom . i got her phone eventually and took her watch and ipad but she took her watch and ipad back and is now messaging him thru that. i know w cos i can see on her phone. what the fuck do i do know. i didn’t think my mum was this fucking stupid. and she kept deleting messages so i only can see 2 days worth of messages. she’s lying to me non stop and i genuinely don’t know how to help her. on top of this she is a jehovah’s witness and she isn’t allowed to date ppl outside of the religion (it’s a cult i know but that’s a whole other problem) and she has no friends outside of the cult so if i tell any of her friends, they will probably shun her and she’ll lose more, driving her more to the guy. im so lost, this shit is like a fucking movie and i genuinely can’t handle this please any advice