SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Passive Income - New Scam
DATE: 2023-10-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/17dyfa0/passive_income_new_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am sure we all get calls and messages says that - “Easy Work from Home job, Passive income. Make ₹2000 to ₹8000 per day.”

I used to ignore all these messages until I got financial crunch couple of months ago. Thought I’d give it a go thinking that they cannot fool me. All happened over WhatsApp texts. They give you a Telegram profile who is considered to be a receptionist and she adds you to a group where you can’t text instead, you’d be a viewer of all the messages in the group. I could see people posting that they got 50k, 75k and what not. The receptionist told me that I’d be getting 25 tasks per day and all of them would be subscribing to YouTube channel and I have to send her a screenshot. She then credits me 100₹ per subscription. Some of the tasks are paid ones. Meaning - You have to pay money in random 1-4 tasks and they create you crypto trade account and make you invest there and within 3 minutes, they will credit back the money with cashback. For 5k, they will give you 7.5k. Apparently, the prepaid tasks are randomly generated and you have to play until it’s over. Meaning - You have to keep paying money until the tasks are over. If you don’t have money and want to withdraw from it, you lose everything. Apart from it, the users of the group with Indian names comments in IELTS 8 English. I should have figured it by now that it’s a scam as people are using Google Translate to comment.
 
On day 1, I earned 5k extra and it was credited to my account within 10 minutes. I was surprised. The next day, I borrowed money from my friends and played again. Even the receptionist was super sweet and asked me if I am going to do the task today and so. Again, I should have suspected it. Who’s super nice these days? My dumb ass was ready to do these tasks again. I started subscribing to couple of YT channels and then the prepaid task came. Round 1 - Pay minimum 7.5k, you get 9k. Used money from the Day 1. Suddenly they say Round 2 - Pay 45k and you get 60k. I didn’t have money. Had to borrow some and played too thinking that, the round would be over. Suddenly, Round 3 and they asked me to pay 1.5L and you’d get 1.8L. Then people in the group started talking in Indonesian language. Bloody, my dumb head realised what I have done. Told them that I didn’t have money and the entire group stopped talking. Oh, while doing the prepaid task, you will be guided by a “teacher”. As I didn’t have money, He asked me to get ready with the money in a day to play again. I told him that I withdraw. He mentioned that I wouldn’t get any money that invested. 
Started texting the receptionist and she mentioned the same that I wouldn’t get any money at all. Started pleading her with all the emotional stories and managed to get 20k back. Lost 50k totally. 
Later I realised that Indonesians and Chinese started scamming through this. I am not even sure how do they get my WhatsApp number. Gone are the days Nigerians scammers try to lure you through their emails. Attracting people with good amount of cashback on day 1 and takes away all the money later. Hopefully it helps others and not fall into this trap.