SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Just visited a potential scam recruitment consultancy. Should I inform the cops or not?
DATE: 2024-01-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1aek9qq/just_visited_a_potential_scam_recruitment/

--- POST TEXT ---

Please read the whole thing before commenting anything please and I'm sorry in advance for the long story I just want you to understand everything in detail before you say anything.
So my cousin has been looking for a job for a while now and we got a message from a person named Shiv saying that there is openings for e-commerce Amazon back office, work from home and office so we said okay and he said okay come to the so called "office" for the interview and there is only one round of interview so we said okay. 
Today 30/January/2024 we went for the interview and as soon as we entered their so called "office" there was no light bulb holders, no fan, and only foldable chairs and it just looked deserted but I didn't judge until we got into the interview part so my cousin went for the interview. The interviewer asked what's your name, age and what do you know about e-commerce my cousin said "I DON'T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT E-COMMERCE" then she said "okay you're from (my home towns name) right?" My cousin said yes, then she said "OKAY YOU ARE SELECTED" that was the WHOLE INTERVIEW. Then she said we have to pay ₹2000 to secure some interview into some companies. My cousin was a bit confused so he called me so the interviewer could explain it to me she said "You have to pay ₹2000 to secure interview for the companies and if he gets into the company the ₹2000 will be refunded in the 4th month of working and if he doesn't get into a company I can come and take the money back from them" so I asked her "what are the companies that my cousin will have interview in" she said "there are some 40 companies" she was trying to divert me from asking the question repeatedly and that's when I knew this is some bs so I asked her "can I have the resume where she wrote and explained everything down so I could read it and get a better understanding and I'll let her know by the evening if my cousin will be joing or not" she said "no to giving me the resume and that I have to pay now" so I told her "give me two mins I'll decide" I went out of the interview room and sat down that's when I started to judge the place "what if they rented the place only to collect the money from people and leave and that's when I asked the other recruiter "Is the place where they are taking interview in is rented or their own" she said "that's non of your business" I said okay and knew this is a scam. So I went back to the person taking the interview and asked calmly "can you explain why exactly I have to pay ₹2000 because I'm not sure" then she got furious and start saying shouting some random stuff to me "do you think the companies are paying our salary slip, do you know how recruitment works?" I was like "no" then she started saying more bs that I don't remember except for the f-word, I don't remember because I was trying to record the convo (which I did). That's when I asked her "so you recruit people for companies for free?" Then she said "who said, when I said that" I told her isn't that what you're trying to imply, so you're telling me that the 2000 rupees we give you is the salary you get? She got more angry and said "one second one second let me clear this point, when I'm recruiting for you, then you can go directly to the company and give interview there" in my mind i was like ( you didn't even clear my point and I didn't understand a single thing you just told me) after that I just grabbed the resume (it tore in half because she tried to grab it as well) and left the place. She came running along with the other recruiter to ask for the resume and threatened to slap me and asked me to behave ☠️ when she's the one screaming on the middle of the road and saying she'll slap me. She also asked for my number (ofcourse I didn't give it to her).
She also said she'll file a complaint to the cops, I said "go ahead". Anyways that happened and she left saying she's got my cousins number and she will file a complaint. 
Also, there is no board of their consultancy name outside their office and the location of their main office also doesn't have a name on map and doesn't match anything as you can see in image 6. 
So, what do I do? Leave it be or is there somthing I can do about it?