SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Update: AirPods Scam. TLDR: Got my money back
DATE: 2023-11-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/182osg8/update_airpods_scam_tldr_got_my_money_back/

--- POST TEXT ---

Namaskar everyone. I just wanted to update you about the scam I fell into, mentioned in my previous post. 
After I found out the airpods were fake I contacted the guy and he refused to take the item back and blocked me. I was sad that 13k went to drain so I slept and woke up next morning and had a sudden realisation that during our chats he mentioned he worked somewhere in HSR. Now the place I went to pickup the item from him had a office nearby. So I gave out a wild shot and searched company name and his name together on Linkedin and voila there was my guy. Technical Product Manager at so and so company. I want to keep his identity confidential because I don't want the guy to lose his job.

So, now I sat on my mission to gather every information I had that I can use against him in the FIR that I was about to file. 24th morning i.e. today I went to HSR police station. 
I had very low expectations with police since I have seen lot of police harassment posts here on this sub. To my surprise I was warmly greeted by the SI Sangmesh Reddy. 
I explained to him my situation and I said I want to file an FIR. 
He said "Why you want to file an FIR? Tell me you want your problem to be solved or you want to file an FIR." 
I said "If problem gets solved here and now and I get my money back, I will be more than happy".

So he sent some officers with me to the seller guy's office. We went to reception called this guy up. 
He was shocked to see me with police but started giving stupid reasoning. "You bought what I advertised, the product is the same as you saw in ad right?" "If you checked already and now you are unsatisfied that's not my fault" "Olx has no return policy". I was like dude, what kind of argument is that but the other officers didn't think so. They almost got sold by that guy's argument and on our way to police station, officers started to convince me that what he was saying is also correct.

Now we are back to station again, and this officer started to elaborate what happened to SI. But thank god SI was sane enough to scold him and tell that "Seller posted Airpods pro with warranty which means he has to sell genuine product if this item is fake then seller is at fault". 
He told lady officer to write the petition and call up the guy at the station. Half an hour later he comes and still sticks to his point "if this is fake how come it shows up warranty at apple website". Now SI is fed up with him in an instant and takes us both to imagine store and ofcourse the store guy clarifies the product is fake. Now this guy starts to give all the made up reasons, "oh it was gifted to me by someone, I didn't know it". SI cuts this guy's bullshit, he says "Either you resolve the issue here and give this guy his money back or let the guy file FIR against you and notice will be sent to your house and you have to come here again. You know the process".

So finally the seller guy gave in and returned my money. I cannot thank SI Sangmesh Reddy enough for the patience and cooperation he showed. The whole time he was like "Why you take tension? you had any breakfast? I will take to good dosa point nearby".

So that was my story guys. Never buying stuffs from olx again. Lesson Learnt once in for all.