SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Work visa scam!! WVP Consultancy Nehru Place, New Delhi. 
DATE: 2024-08-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1f4s9v8/work_visa_scam_wvp_consultancy_nehru_place_new/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone!!

A serious help is needed. Recently my friend had a very bad experience with WVP Consultsncy. She applied for a NZ working visa in Feb, 2024 and paid Rs.75,000. They informed her in July that she would receive a call from 3rd party recruiter based in Australia and the time frame was given between 6pm -2 am IST ( never heard someone takes an interview at night). She received a call from Australian number but it was just an internet based number and truecaller shows the name of WVP itself. The person who took the interview didn't even have an Australian accent and did not even inform her about his name or the name of company she was applying for. It was a distorted voice from his end as if he was speaking with a piece of cloth on earphones. I have a friend in Australia, so i sent him the interviewer's number for checking. I also called that number but it was never connected because it was just an outgoing internet number. My friend also said that the number is invalid and does not belong to any person or company . And the first interview went negative (it must have been because it was just their employee calling from India only) and second round was also rejected because it was all fraud as I mentioned.

 She visited their office in Nehru Place and confronted them. They assured her that they had sent her documents to New Zealand embassy in New Zealand for the verification. They also informed her that they made the changes in her resume but when she asked for the updated resume, they simply denied by saying that they could not share it due to company policy. How can somone even attend an interview if they do not even know what all details are mentioned on the resume?

 We asked for the refund of our hard earned money and they simply denied it claiming that she had signed up the agreement.

 All the reviews are fake on Google. They get 10 positive reviews everyday.
 
Can somebody please help on what measures should we take to get a refund of this fraud running in the name of work visa?
 
Any legal advice? Any help would be appreciated.

Can we file a case as they mentioned that they sent the documents to New Zealand embassy in NZ for verififation? 

Could we ask for the courier delivery receipt?

 Sorry for the long post.