SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Need advice - property related - Scam builder
DATE: 2022-07-10
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/vvlk4a/need_advice_property_related_scam_builder/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello,

Need advice/suggestions on a property related issue. If someone has experience dealing with situations like the one I mention or has legal knowledge, appreciate your inputs on the matter.

Back in 2012, I purchased an apartment. It was a complex with 48 planned apartments (which the builder deviated from and built an extra floor) so, total 60 flats of which around 34 were sold by the builder and 26 was landowner's share.
2015, after some delays and after weekly trips to the builder's office, we finally agreed with the builder that we would pay the remaining amount due (with the exception of 50k) though all the work was not completed and would move in. The 50k was to be paid once the builder completed the pending work. This was also documented in the possession letter they gave us.

Well, the builder didn't complete the work and just a year later they filed bankruptcy. Hundreds of people were swindled by the builder (Prabhavathi builders was the name) and lost their money. After a few days in prison, the MD was out on bail and as it happens with the well connected folks, he's been out since.
The company is defunct and doesn't exist anymore.

 Since our building was 80% complete so the flat owners pooled in about 1 lakh each and started on the pending work and the process has been slow and a pain.
 Our flats are registered to our names and we have been paying property taxes for years now.

Now, 6+ years later, all of a sudden the 34 flats who purchased from the builder each received a fishy letter from the Managing partner(the MD chap) saying that there was a balance of 7 lakhs which we individually had to pay to the builder. The letter which is printed in an A4 sheet is full of grammar and spelling errors and some sentences are garbled. Each flat has received the same demand of 7 lakhs. The logo of the company seems to have been scanned and printed (faded print) . The letter states that if there's no dues then to send the proof by mail or post to some address (not sure if it's a residential address). There's a mail id (personal) and a mobile number. Another thing is, there's no option mentioned on how we are supposed to be paying this fake amount of 7 lakhs. No bank a/c details etc.

I had done all my payments via cheques and RTGS and have my bank statements handy where it tallies up to the correct amount I had paid the builder. I have copies of the sale and construction agreements which shows the amount for which the flat was sold for. However, knowing how the builder was a fraud and had swindled people and had apparently forged documents, I am not at all willing to engage with them/him (I think it's just the MD and maybe 1-2 cronies of his trying to get money with this new tactic) or provide them any documents from my side.

The Association which has been inept since the first day and are very indecisive has been mum on this so far. A few residents I spoke to said they are going to ignore the letter. They reason that - "The company is defunct and the builder has been nowhere involved with us since 2016. The flats are registered to us, we are paying taxes and we shelled out more than that 50k that was left and the builder didn't complete half of that work which was due. We paid all that was due and this is just a scam that they are trying to see if they can dupe more people".

I do agree that the letter almost looks like a "phishing" attempt of sorts but wanted to get opinion from people who might be wiser in such matters. I did suggest to the assoc. members that maybe we could talk to a lawyer and any communication if done should be done via the lawyer but no one has shown much interest in my suggestion.