SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: Abusive parents are steering my life towards ruin. I need help.
DATE: 2022-02-17
SCORE: 100
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/sutw6z/abusive_parents_are_steering_my_life_towards_ruin/

--- POST TEXT ---

My parents are very abusive and controlling, and now are threatening to call the police on me. Starting in 11th I realised the effects of mt mother's constant beating and shaming, it had rendered me completely uninterested in studying. Years have passed without me studying appropriately for anything, even for my boards. It is taking a heavy toll on me and this can't go on. There is no chance of clearing JEE like this, and if I don't they will disown me. I don't have a smartphone, and it's lack has created a massive difficulty in my studies because I don't even get the lecture links most of the time, I depend on my mother to send them to me through email. I miss out on a lot of information as well. I've been cut off from my friends for two years, who all live far away.

Some friend of my mother told her to complain about me to the police, so that there is no reason to deal with me. My step-father immediately caught on and threatens me every time there is a fight. I tried asking for help through the childline, but they were easily swayed by my parents. I was extremely unprepared and this will never help due to the Indian mentality of beating children. I took such "severe" action because that is how severe the banshee screaming and physical threats were. I've run away two times to protect myself, because the house had become so unstable and violent. Just spending the night outside, because that was safer than my home.

"Of course they won't call the police on you they are just threatening you"

Except no, my step-father and mother have filed an FIR against me at the local police station. My crime? Arguing and yelling back.

I can't do this alone anymore. Please help me, I don't have anyone to go to ask for help. The hope of college fixing my life is not enough with how horrible things are right now.

EDIT: u/shaaktiman is giving me help. Hopefully things go well. I also want to thank every single one of you for giving me your support, it has been absolutely heartwarming.What 

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

Long Ver.

My mother has been beating me for every little thing, not a week has gone in my childhood where there hasn't been violent insults, hitting and punishment. Whenever we went out I will always get screamed at for something or another.

My nani was never spared of this either. Fights often involved my nani defending me getting disrespected and insulted, old family problems brought up to put salt on her wounds. She faced a lot of physical assault when I was small as well, which included locking her in the washroom when she was bleeding, because apparently she was hitting me because she had to clean my shit, which was a misunderstanding. My nani has heart problems, and so do I, yet there is no sparing from my mother.

She beats me up for not doing homework, for not doing classwork, and for lying about the aforementioned. Always calling me a raakshas and a child who was born only to hurt her, a leech and parasite, an evil person born to drink her blood, a curse word in tamil and literal shraaps. While beating me she sees the image of her dead husband, which further fuels her violence. She also pins my father's death onto me, my step-father does as well. Saying that I murdered my father, calling me a murderer. iShe's hit my all over my arms with a spatula, making cuts that bled and have scars to this day, stepped on top of my feet to give me pain, which created large marks on my feet, punched and clawed my face, liked bending my fingers hard, and bent my little finger enough to break it. It will never close fully. Pushed me down onto the ground and kept kicking me repeatedly. Extreme humiliation was always part and parcel of the process.

When I was smaller she often pointed to a building, saying that she's going to send me off to a hostel. Doing this multiple times led to a recurring nightmare, where she is leaving me with a big teddy bear and leaving me there. I've seen this a dozen times or so. I have another recurring nightmare where she she close to my face, and keeps violently hitting me. During this I feel a dreadful emotion everytime, that I have never felt awake and I never hope to. Their voices are in my head, and they scream at me together.

My step-father enjoys being ghee in the fire. She admits that most times I wouldn't be beaten if it weren't for him convincing her that I'm a fraud, a cheater and a manipulating liar. My mother married him when he was 60, and has been divorced twice. Their own fights have been numerous and frightening, and she made me stand between them like a human shield.He's there at home 24/7, and we never talk. I am sure there a lot of fathers who would be willing to have their hand cut off in exchange for this privilege. My chest hurt when the nice family that came to visit us left.

Her only involvement in studies is making me cry before exams by "teaching" me. There has been nothing she has done to spend time with me doing parenting, the only parenting there is is beating. She never allowed me to go outside the society building alone, and restricted me from going outside the colony. This resulted in me being friends with little kids and nobody else. Even my school was in Powai, I'd only ever see my friends out of school either on my birthday or their birthday. Because of this, I have no friends near me. This has prevented me from making friends where I live and socialising. My days went by watching documentaries on TV and doing random crap on the computer. Nothing else.

She took me a counsellor in 5th standard, to figure out why I was the way I was. Apparently I didn't open up and they couldn't figure out anything. Great, more things to say while yelling at me. In 9th standard, the school counsellor figured out something was up, and took sessions with me. I of course never brought up the home problems, because how could I spoil my mother's name? This is a belief deeply ingrained, and has prevented me from receiving help all this time. There was one time where she hitting just would not stop, I wanted to open the door and run to the neighbour, to ask them to save me. I almost did it, but I'm the wrong one no? I'm being punished for my behaviour; actions have consequences I was told, and being punished was my consequence, always. This has prevented me from talking about the abuse I face from her to anyone.

The result of this shit parenting has been me dodging all studies as much as I can. I was never able to study, I never got around to it and days went by without me studying at all. I got an 87% in my 10th boards by memory alone. But starting 11th I understood that it cannot continue this way, and that something needs to be fixed. After doing a lot of research I began to understand what the problem has been. The utter lack of experience, the life full of nothing. Today it feels as if there has been code missing from my brain. I have had no understanding of the meaning of discipline and fruits of hard work in my brain altogether. It makes no difference even if my friends tell me that I need to study, I wouldn't register. Just over a year ago, I was completely incapable of putting together this essay, incapable of putting together or talking about these problems. I have never participated in any debates, because I was completely incapable of debating, of preparing and practicing for the debate, or any other speech related activity for the matter. Imagine the brain is an AI. There has been such a severe lack of data that it stunted itś development altogether and has been at a much lower level than others of the same age. Although I am much better than before, I still suck a lot.

I have severe issues because of her. Not making any decisions, not gathering any experience for being an adult, has led to in nice words, extreme late blooming. I had grown to become alright with shit days going by, because the only thing I wanted was for the beating to get over, the night would surely pass. it is purely retarded to raise a child to only obey their parents and follow instructions. You and I both know that's a great way to live a dead end life or be used by someone. Even though she says that she wants to prepare me for a successful future, she has done none such. Her idea of being a good parent is taking me to Haridwar for a dip and pray for my father's soul to pass in peace, to walk around in brindavan, and to follow parenting instructions from the bhagvad gita, which apparently says that parents are done giving love and care to their children at the age of 13. She has the audacity to call herself an "angel god mother" She defends her "harsh" behaviour towards me by saying that I chose this life before my birth. That I apparently chose her to be my mother, to my life events being like this, and to be born with marfan syndrome. Gloriously dodging her mistakes and pushing them onto me, taking the blame off of herself for everything. This is how she functions.

She believes in healing energy, and has spend lakhs upon lakhs on courses. Then tells me that she is struggling with covering household expenses. Asking her for anything is literal begging, and she doesn't get 90% of the things I request her, yet says that she fulfills my every wish and desire. Her facade shows her as completely innocent. Convincing someone that I face extreme abuse by her hand is impossible if they talk to her Nowadays she behaves as if she's forgotten all the bad things she has done, and her image has been that she hits me only to correct my lying habit. She lives in an alteration of actual events and denies all the hostile things she has done.

For those who have read this far, I want to thank you with [this](https://youtu.be/9hTSmk7bVLc).