SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: My boyfriend is in jail because of a false rape accusation I was forced to give.
DATE: 2023-09-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/16ewn1x/my_boyfriend_is_in_jail_because_of_a_false_rape/

--- POST TEXT ---

I, 16F, have been dating my boyfriend 21M for a while now. Although we have a questionable age gap, there is no grooming or pedophilia involved as none of us were aware of each other's ages when we fell in love (I look way older than my age.) I lost my virginity to him 2 weeks ago and we were both looking forward to getting married as soon as i was legal.

Here comes in the issue: my dad found out about me bunking my school and with research on my location, he found that i was in a hotel room with him instead of going to school. 

I am from a typical brown household where dating or sex before marriage is looked down upon, and when my dad found out about me being alone with a guy at a hotel for the entirety of my school time (which was 8 hours) it was very obvious to him that we had sex.

My father has since beat me unconscious and verbally abused me nearly every single day, forcing me to give a statement against my boyfriend about how he drugged and raped me. I ran away from home 2 days after he found out but he called the cops and quickly had my location tracked down. 

My father is rather rich and has a lot of power when it comes to the law. He wants my boyfriend convicted not because he genuinely cares for me but because it has affected his male ego about how someone could ruin his property (since according to him, i have no value as I am not a virgin anymore). 

Last week he forced me to have a medical test done (which involved a swab going inside my vagina) as well as give a false statement against my boyfriend which led to him getting arrested.

Now, i doubt anything will show up in the results since it was taken 6 days after we had sex, but even then my statement alone is enough to have him convicted.

It is common knowledge that India has strict laws against sexual abuse especially against minors (POCSO) and there is absolutely no bail involved when it comes to this. He will remain in jail until the court hearing where i have to appear and give my statement again, which if i do he gets sent to prison for atleast 20 years, which effectively means his life is ruined. 

I have 2-3 months until the court hearing to plan something to prove his innocence, but i cannot directly support him in front of my father since i know he will not hesitate to either end my life or deprive me of education and marry me off once i turn 18. 

My father is shipping me off to my maternal grandparents (who live about a 1000 kms away from us) next week since he refuses to live under the same roof as someone who is "impure". Im planning on getting in touch with my bfs family once im there and having them fake a call recording from the day i ran away from home, where i state how im being forced to do this and we havent had any sexual relations at all (because even consensual sex is illegal since the age of consent is 18 in my country) and how my father is behind all this.

I dont know much about the law. I cannot directly support him in court but with the help of the call recording and the (hopefully) negative test results, will i be able to prove his innocence?

Any help or legal advice will be greatly appreciated.