I called up "Justdial" for Airtel Broadband Installation Numbers on 30/12/2010. Many executives from Airtel started calling me up instantly. I accepted the offer from an executive(Named "Ansh") who told me that he's directly from Airtel's Okhla Phase-3 office and not a DSA and also recommended me that i should not go by the words of the people from a DSA as they instantly charge the advance and then delay the process of installation, but he will get the broadband installation done within 24-hrs. And thus he sent his executives to my house within half an hour and got the form filled and charged me Rs.500 cash as advance. He also gave me his mobile no. telling me that this is his direct no. and i can call on that no. in future in case of any problem. After that neither he himself nor anybody from his office contacted me till a week. Neither did anybody visit my house for installation. He didn't pick his phone the whole day next day. I'm trying to talk to him since then but he never comes over the phone .I keep on trying to connect to him. But no response... and since only 2 times somebody picked up the phone and told me that this is the office no. and not Mr. Ansh's no. and doesn't make me talk to Mr. Ansh. When i insisted a lot to tell me the status of my application. He put me on hold and then came back and told me that Mr. Ansh says that installation will be done today(this was on 3rd Jan). But nobody visited my place. I kept waiting the whole day. Nobody even called up. Again the next day(4th Jan) i kept on trying his no. After trying a lot, somebody picked up the phone and said the same to me as the previous day. But Mr. Ansh didn't came over the phone. I even launched complaint in the Airtel Customer care. But their response was also not positive. They said they they dont know anything about whats going on with me and they can not do anything as they dont know Mr. Ansh. Then on 5th Jan, an executive came to my house to get the Airtel form filled from scratch and charge me again, telling me that my area is not under the Okhla office and those people who charged me were some fraud people. I got shocked. i tried calling up Mr. Ansh again and after a lot of effort, somebody again picked up the phone(not Mr. Ansh) and told me that they are working in the Airtel's Okhla Ofiice and are genuine as i got sms's direct from Airtel's side and the form was also original Airtel's form. i have a copy of it with me. I'm still helpless. I wasted a lot of money in making calls and more that that i wasted a lot of my time. I'm am studying and preparing for MBA Entrances and this thing wasted a lot of my time. I have a lot many tasks which can be done over the net only. But trhis wasted a lot of my precious time. i'm very much pissed off and irritated. But still nobody has either bothered to call me up or visit my place for installation after so many days and so much effort...:-((