SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: SC slams Rajasthan, stays notification de-notifying 732 hectares of National Chambal Sanctuary
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/sc-slams-rajasthan-stays-notification-de-notifying-732-hectares-of-national-chambal-sanctuary/2895054/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 2 (PTI) Slamming the Rajasthan government for “facilitating” illegal sand mining, the Supreme Court on Thursday stayed its notification de-notifying 732 hectares of the National Chambal Sanctuary, saying it will not allow de-notification of any reserve land for protected species. Terming “mining mafia” as “dacoits”, the apex court said a number of government officials, including sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and policemen, have been killed in Rajasthan by mining mafia.
The National Chambal Sanctuary, also called the National Chambal Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary, is a 5,400 sq km tri-state protected area. Besides the endangered gharial (long-snouted crocodile), it is home to the red-crowned roof turtle and the endangered Ganges river dolphin.
Located on the Chambal river near the tripoint of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the sanctuary was first declared a protected area in Madhya Pradesh in 1978 and now constitutes a long narrow eco-reserve co-administered by the three states.
Show Full Article
A bench of justices Vikram Nath and Sandeep Mehta observed that gharial and many other aquatic animals were virtually on the verge of extinction.
Terming the de-notification of 732 hectares area as “serious issue”, the top court told the counsel appearing for Rajasthan that the state’s notification has not passed muster through the required statutory requirements.
The bench was hearing a suo motu case titled ‘In Re: Illegal sand mining in the National Chambal Sanctuary and threat to endangered aquatic wildlife’.
“They (state) could not have done it on their own. That is illegal,” Justice Mehta told the counsel appearing for Rajasthan, adding, “The state is in hot waters”.
The bench made clear that it would not allow de-notification of any reserve land for protected species. “There is no question. Have you seen that location? Have you been to that location? Go and see how fragile it is. Gharials are now virtually on the verge of extinction. Not only gharials, so many aquatic animals,” the bench said.
Referring to illegal sand mining in Rajasthan, the bench said, “You are facilitating illegal mining”.
An advocate, who is assisting the court as an amicus curiae in the matter, referred to a separate proceeding pending before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) since 2022 on the same issue.
The amicus said no eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) has been defined by Rajasthan till date.
He said Rajasthan has issued a notification in December last year de-notifying 732 hectares area.
“How does it directly affects the conservation programme?,” the bench asked.
The amicus said once it is de-notified, it becomes a revenue land.
“That is why they don’t declare the eco-sensitive zone. We have seen that in Ranthambore. We have seen that in Sariska,” the bench said.
Referring to some videos, Justice Mehta said those were “literally terrifying”.
“The animals moving around and those earth movers are taking out sands and passing through the police station, passing by the mining outposts,” Justice Mehta observed.
The amicus referred to some affidavits filed before the NGT, and argued that the states have said “the problem is that those involved in illegal sand mining carry better weapons”.
Justice Mehta said a number of SDMs, police officers and forest department officials were killed in Rajasthan by the mining mafia.
“The problem is that the state government has completely forgotten that there is a law called preventive detention. Similar thing took place in Jaisalmer where all the windmills were destroyed by these mafias. Complete system was on a verge of collapse,” Justice Mehta said.
“We directed in one case that you consider invoking preventive detention. They started doing it and immediately it reduced,” Justice Mehta said.
The bench observed if the states have said so on affidavit, it reflected an “extremely sad state of affairs”.
“If the state government say we can’t defend our natural resources, then what happens. Absolute anarchy,” it said.
Justice Mehta observed, “Now these are the dacoits, these mining mafias. That traditional mode of dacoity is replaced by this”.
The amicus said these states should respond to the issues flagged by him in his report filed in the court.
The bench noted that the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) has also filed a report before it on the issue.
It asked the three states to respond to the reports filed by the amicus and the CEC within four weeks.
The bench said the counsel appearing for the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change would take instructions and file affidavit within four weeks.
The amicus requested the bench to stay the notification issued by Rajasthan.
“In the meantime, the notification dated December 23, 2025 issued by the state of Rajasthan and notified on March 9, 2026 … shall remain stayed,” the bench said.
The counsel appearing for Rajasthan urged that the court may direct status quo instead of staying the notification.
“Come back on the next date. We will consider all your request,” the bench said and posted the matter for hearing on May 11.
The bench also directed that the matter pending before the NGT be transferred to the apex court.
While hearing the matter on March 20, the apex court had taken serious note of the destruction of habitats of aquatic animals due to rampant illegal sand mining in the National Chambal Sanctuary.
On March 13, the top court took suo motu cognisance based on certain news reports pertaining to rampant illegal mining from the sand banks of Chambal river. PTI ABA ZMN
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.