SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need suggestions I got scammed by a flatmate friend who is (obviously) not returning the money
DATE: 2024-09-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fsuoq8/need_suggestions_i_got_scammed_by_a_flatmate/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone,

I stupidly gave lakhs of rupees to a friend of mine; I’ll try my best to give important pointers to make it easier to give advice. Also, later I found that he is a serial scammer who is running different kinds of scams. The place is Delhi.

I request you to read it all. Thank you!

He claimed that he is going to take government customs containers on lease for a year, which will keep the confiscated sportswear, and he can sell it to retailers and wholesalers for profit. And he promised to give 30000 to 40000 income every one to two months. Due to my desperation and greed, I gave him 410000 rupees. He never provided any kind of documentation.

I did receive two cheques of 40 to 45k for first 4 to 5 months. As I was completely in his trust during that time, he told me to invest ‘RBI sovereign gold bonds’ through him, he assured return of 20 to 30% in 6 to 12 months. I gave him 149000, and He gave me a ‘RBI Sovereign Gold certificate’. And he did give me 181000 after two or three months. But after that, the any promised income from the ‘container venture’ stopped coming citing business issues and him being busy with his new girlfriend. I think this is called a Ponzi scam, as he first gave a small amount return to keep me in the loop of trust.

 Now coming to the biggest screw up by me, after getting the ‘return’ from the gold bond. He convinced me to give him 600000 rupees to get me a government job. As I was happy with the recent gold bond return, I gave him the money (bank transfer/netbanking) by taking a personal loan (stupid as fuck). While transferring the money is front of him through netbanking, he told me to mark the transaction as ‘investment’. ***And I took from him a 5 lakh rupees undated cheque, and a blank paper with his signature on it as a sign of assurance/collateral.*** I didn’t pay much attention at the time, but later, I checked the cheque and realized that amount written was 50 lakhs instead of 5 lakhs on it (maybe he deliberately, did it? so that sec. 138 of NI cannot apply?).

**How we (me and another flatmate of mine) found out that he is a serial scammer:**

On the very next day (yes, the very next day!) of transferring him 600000 for the government job. I got news while I was in in the office that he got arrested by the Pune police. I got really confused that why the police of a different city were looking for him in Delhi. We found out that there were two charges against him, first was ‘r\*pe on the pretense of marriage’, second was ‘forgery and cheating’ by convincing the opposing party (father of the ‘r\*ped’ girl) to invest crores of rupees through gold bonds. To save him, we arranged one of the best lawyers overnight and went to Pune to give him mental support by cancelling our other important plans. He spent a month in Yerevada prison and got the bail. We parted our ways as the rental agreement of our flat was expired and I was still trying to process it all. The case is still ongoing I guess, as the opposing party is determined to recover money with interest or to take him down for good.

Secondly, when he was still in jail, waiting for his bail, my second flatmate, received bank transfer statements, and an old video from a Person named X (I am yet to see the video). The video showed our scammer flatmate in a beaten state, surrounded by few ‘recovery agents’. Those agents and X are asking him ‘where did the money went?’, and ‘where is that government job which you promised?’, ‘Is your father also a part of your scam?’.  

When 2^(nd) flatmate called x, and asked him for more details, he only said that he gave scammer flatmate a lot of money for a government job, and he stopped replying, after that X refused to talk more and cut that call by stating that he is looking for him (scammer flatmate). The scammer friend is constantly messaging my 2^(nd) flatmate friend to delete that video and bank transfer documents.

Also, when we got out of the flat, and went to our separate ways, I got a call from the husband of our cleaning maid, he told me that he hasn’t paid the dues of last month, and he promised a government job to one of his acquaintances, and took lakhs of rupees for it, but not answering the calls now.

Another common friend of us told my second flatmate, that she stopped talking to scammer flatmate as he tried to convince his father to invest in gold bonds and give her a government job in exchange of money.

Right now, he is engaged to a girl, who has fallen head over heels for him. I think he is after her money, many properties of her parents (father and brother are Airforce officers, while mother is a government teacher). Obviously, she only has a gut feeling that something is not right, and not aware about his crimes, but she is so in ‘love with this bad boy’, that she is simply following his lead.

After this, I stopped any contact with him, as I am thinking what action to take now?

I have:

-            An undated cheque (it’s been more than 6 months), with his signature on it, and amount mentioned only in numbers, not in words, but my money ranges between 10 to 15 lakhs, while amount mentioned on the cheque is 50 lakhs, I heard that if the amount on cheque is more than the legally enforceable debt, then sec. 138 of NI act cannot apply.

-            A blank paper with his signature on it.

-            The RBI gold bond certificate, which I think is a fake. But my doubt is that if that pune case is already ongoing which is also related to fake gold bond certificate, will my similar matter stand a ground in Delhi court?

-            UPI payment transactions, and netbanking transactions, the netbanking transactions are marked as ’investment’ due to his ‘request’.

-            Other people (X and acquaintance of maid’s husband) who got scammed for the government job in exchange of money scam.

-            The common friend who was saved by her father from the scam of government job and gold bond.

-            Video and bank transfer documents from X, I have not told him that I am aware about the existence of such video and other people he scams or tied to scam.

-            Should I also talk to his pune lawyer to know the status of his case?

-             I heard he has bought some properties in the names of his family members. I think even his current car has come from the money of innocent victims.

-            Should I record calls? Or should I contact that opposing party form Pune case or those Pune cops (they are obviously corrupt as fuck).

-            That scammer friend has claimed that he recently got a job in a big government institution. in the past he also tried to bribe officials of a government department a big government job question paper leak, but bribe amount was too big.  

-            He was also trying my 2^(nd) flatmate and other people to arrange fake work experience certificates for his CV, so that he can show fake work experience in government job interview.

-            My end theory is that he scammed all people to bought properties in the name of his family members, and to bribe government officials to get a job for himself only, so that he can woo that girl and her wealthy parents.

-            His fiancée is not aware that Pune case also contained charge of rape and forgery.

To sum it up, he is running these kinds of scams: Ponzi scam, money in exchange of government job scam, and RBI gold bond scam.

**What to do now? And is it my responsibility to tell the girl the truth to save her from him?**