SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Gentle reminder: Don’t get scammed. Get customer care numbers from the companies website or call from their app.
DATE: 2020-10-25
SCORE: 23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/jhwf0r/gentle_reminder_dont_get_scammed_get_customer/

--- POST TEXT ---

My dad who is not very good at technology had to call PhonePe to have his issue resolved. I’m not sure where he got their number but his call log had 2 numbers starting with 1800- but the calls did not connect(call timer goes on but no response). After a couple of minutes he received a call from a mobile number saying it was from PhonePe. The person started a chat on PhonePe and sent a 5 digit code which he asked my dad to reply with. My dad unknowingly typed the number, clicked on send and entered the UPI code as well. He really thought he’s entering the code even when it said payment declined. This happened around 5 times but luckily, the transactions failed due to the issue he had.

When none of that worked, the guy asked my dad for the expiration date of his debit card for “verification”. I was watching dad get furious every time I told not to do it. Then the guy asked for the first 4 digits of his debit card like- “sir does your card start with 6014” to which my dad replied “no it is 6074”. He says “sir what is there after that”. This when I snatched his card and phone to stop his stupidity.

I then called PhonePe who confirmed that it was fraud. I worked at a reputed e-commerce companies so I know such companies never call customers and never ask for such information or to do such things. This is for the safety of the company itself.

Point to note is, this mobile number is saved on PhonePe as “Phone ‘Per’ Customer Care” and clicking on it shows a different very common human name. On Truecaller it is a different name.

This guy had the audacity to call back 2 hours later and is asking “sir did you get refund”. I told I know this fraud so don’t try and he’s like “kya karoge behenchod”

At this point I want some action to be taken on this as we would have lost over 20k but I’m not sure my dad like it if I report it to the police 

Moral of the story:
1. no reputed company will call you back, atleast not from a mobile number.
2. Companies ask for expiry code and the last 4 digits of the card but never the CVV or first 3 sets of numbers on you card
3. If the executive is not able to tell you what the issue, or is not able to look into data/logs to find the time and type of error, or is not able to explain the error even after you mentioning it, he’s either a fresher or a scammer. Freshers have support so they may take time but will help.
4. Get the customer care number from a reputed source!!!! Everything has an app, you can grow trees in apps lol so the will have a contact us section. If not, try their website or JustDial
5. Take help from people who are better at technology if you have no clue
6. Watch Jamtara- sabka number ayega