SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam or coincidence?
DATE: 2023-07-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/14y6q6t/scam_or_coincidence/

--- POST TEXT ---

After witnessing this for the third time today, I thought I’d post on here and see if anybody recognizes this as a scam or if I am just being paranoid. My boyfriend got approached by two different men, but the interactions were almost identical. Both complimented something he was wearing (first time his shoes, second time his t-shirt). He is a very friendly guy so conversation flowed easily. Both of these guys said they were from India and were owners of e-commerce business. My bf is a construction worker but also does a little bit of real estate. After 10 mins sharing a little bit about each other, these guys asked for his number and suggested they meet so my bf could share about real estate and they could share about e-commerce. The crazy thing here is that both of these interactions happened at the same Target, and both of these guys suggested my bf met them at the same Panera Bread store (located a few blocks away from Target.) He met with the first guy, but felt like the interaction was useless so he never responded to his other texts. The second time I begged him not to meet him bc I got nervous about the situation. All of these happened in the last year. Fast forward to today, I am shopping at Marshalls (next doors to the Panera Bread and blocks away from the Target where these interactions happened), and I hear a guy approach somebody that was walking by us. EXACT SAME DIALOGUE. 

“Hey I like your shirt. Where did you get it? 

Cool. Where are you from?

Do you work?

Oh nice, I do e-commerce.

We should exchange numbers!”

I didn’t get to hear the whole thing but I just thought it was crazy that all three interactions happened in the same area, with guys who claimed to be from the same country, and were so similar. Does anybody know if this could be a scam?

Note: My bf is very eager to learn new things, so when the guy suggested meeting to teach him about e-commerce he didn’t hesitate. However, he never really taught him anything and my bf left feeling quite confused. The guy said he had an advisor who had helped him learn the business and the three of them could meet so they could teach him.

Note 2: Now that I remember, both guys my bf met asked him where he lived and claimed to have lived in the same neighborhood (about 10 mins away from the stores). The neighborhood we lived at is predominantly Hispanic and these guys were from another continent, so that made it even more suspicious.