SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Lost Rs20L to online job scam last year. Need advice!! 
DATE: 2024-06-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1debvt4/lost_rs20l_to_online_job_scam_last_year_need/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am 38m. Last year, in June 2023, I lost Rs 20 lacs to an online job scam, which is all of my life savings. I promptly reported the incident to the cybercrime department (1930) and filed a case at the cybercrime police station. Initially, the police were cooperative, checking with the bank to see if any funds remained in the fraudulent account where I had sent my money. The bank confirmed a balance of Rs 35 lacs in the accounts and suggested there was a possibility of recovery, advising me to secure a court order through a lawyer.

In August 2023, I contacted a lawyer recommended by a friend. She estimated that the recovery process would take three to four months and quoted a fee of 80,000, which I accepted given the significant amount involved. Despite periodic follow-ups, she did not initiate the recovery process until March 2024. At that point, she contacted the police to verify the account balance, and the investigating officer reported only Rs10 lacs remaining. The case was forwarded to court to secure a court order. However, upon checking with the bank myself, I discovered a mere Rs3,000 left in the account, presumably because other victims had successfully reclaimed funds.

Now, my lawyer is requesting that I sign an indemnity bond to proceed with the court order and pay the remaining 65,000 of her fee. I've already paid 15,000. Given the negligible balance remaining in the fraudster's account, I checked the police about the feasibility of recovering any funds. They indicated that recovery was unlikely and it is due to delay caused by my lawyer.

I am currently stressed and unsure about how to proceed. Here are my key concerns:

1.Should I proceed with the court order and sign the indemnity bond, considering the 65,000 fee my lawyer demands for releasing the order, especially if there's no significant money to recover? I am afraid she might send legal notice if I dont pay the fees. 

2. If I obtain the court order, what are the realistic chances of recovering any money? My lawyer has mentioned that the police might request a bribe to expedite the process, and I am reluctant to spend more if there's no guaranteed recovery.

When I lost money, it led to a period of depression for me. I have since found a better mental space and don't wish to undergo further stress. I am okay to move on without recovering the money and prefer to close the case if possible. 

If any has faced similar situation. Please help!

PS - You can find the details of the scam in the link.