SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Police, house owner, and my toxic grandparents are on the verge of completely destroying us
DATE: 2025-04-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1k9vb4g/police_house_owner_and_my_toxic_grandparents_are/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’m in early 20s (F) and my mom is in late 50s. I also have an elder sister. My father was abusive (arranged marriage set up by my grandmother) and abandoned us when I was a kid. Mom and father have been seperated ever since. We are from Tamil Nadu. 

In 2019, my grandfather filed a false case against my mother and me (I was 19 at that time) because we took part in my mom's sister's civil case against my grandfather. I wanted to give justice to my mom in the ancestral property case that had been ongoing for several years. The police arrested us with a false case but my sister signed to bail us out after 45 days. 

After finding out that our grandparents had bribed not only our legal aid lawyer but also the entire district courts and police in our region, we stopped attending court proceedings, fearing our safety. This wasn’t a decision we made lightly, but we could no longer trust the legal system as it was manipulated against us. 

We've been living in another city away from the toxic environment created by our grandparents. We’ve been living among people without hiding and just tried to live as a normal family because we were tortured all our lives by our toxic grandparents and uncles. Me and my sister have been working on freelance projects. In these 5 years, we experienced what a normal life feels like without any abuse. We learnt what it feels like to live. To breathe without being controlled every single second, without being ruined in every aspect of our lives.

Five years later, they managed to track us down by using my mom's renewed ATM card that was automatically sent to our previous address (their house). Now, they’ve made our current house owner to file a fake complaint to force us out of our current home.

Earlier today, the police, along with the house owner, came to our house and made explicit threats of eviction within 10 days saying they have already waited since 3 months. They were all hostile, using derogatory language, being aggressive, and then threatened force entry and throwing our things out if we did not vacate the house. The house owner has falsely claimed us of doing illegal activities within the house and said the same to the police. We were never involved in any illegal activity. 

We don't want to vacate the house because leaving would mean returning to an environment where our safety is at risk. Our grandparents, backed by their resources, have a history of manipulation and harm.

We’ve been living peacefully, but this torture is threatening to ruin our lives if we don't sign in the civil property case according to their wishes. But even if we sign, their next move is to destroy our lives completely as they hate us (they are evil). To give more context, there are two ancestral properties in our hometown, worth more than 50 crores together, along with 150 pounds of jewels that are supposed to belong to my mom. My mom is the eldest, and she has 2 brothers and 1 sister. The grandparents, mom's siblings, and their families, all of them are trying to cheat my mom and also destroy our lives. When they found our location, we made it clear that we didn’t want a single rupee, but we won’t be going back to our hometown as per their demand. Still, they are not leaving us alone and continuing to ruin our lives in every way possible.

Since they have political influence in entire Tamil Nadu as far as we know, we gave up seeking legal aid (and we can't afford to pay lawyers). We even went to the human rights office in our hometown once, and they suggested we settle the property case with them, which made us lose hope in the legal system. The money for all this comes from one of my uncles, who lives in the USA, and works as a Sr. Director at a reputed company.

The system, the so-called justice system, crushed whatever hope we had left. We may not have anyone on our side, but we have the truth and we are completely innocent. And that’s all that matters. God takes truth’s side, no matter how evil people around us are. Like my mom tells me often, dharmathin vaazhvudhanai soodhu kavvum, irudhiyil dharmame vellum (a life of righteousness will face trials and challenges, but in the end, righteousness will triumph).