SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Predator Alert in the Bangalore outdoor scene
DATE: 2024-12-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1hlgnuh/predator_alert_in_the_bangalore_outdoor_scene/

--- POST TEXT ---

This has been circulated in the Bangalore Climbing and Cycling communities. Increasing the reach since a few more survivors have come forward from unrelated communities. A very sick piece of work, be on the lookout. 

Cant share names publicly as some of the survivors are looking into legal options and that might derail it. But we have reached out to his sponsors and grants bodies and they have all taken his work down and are working on cutting all ties

 
TRIGGER WARNING: SEXUAL HARASSMENT 

Dear climbing and allied communities, We are women who have experienced abuse and exploitation by a sexual aggressor in India's climbing community. We are now speaking out. As more evidence comes to light, we are shocked by the severity of this situation. We are forced to issue this statement as no formal mechanisms currently exist within the community to address our grievances. We are putting ourselves at risk in speaking up. 

As a visible member of the community - a photographer, cyclist and alpinist -his lack of accountability leaves us with no other choice. We are deeply disturbed and disappointed. 

For too long, he has behaved unacceptably with the women of this community and beyond- including sexual abuse, forced unprotected sex, coercion, fraud, manipulation, and lying. The person has also knowingly exposed us to significant health risks. We have given him enough opportunities to rectify his actions and seek help. However, his pattern of abuse has only strengthened due to his ability to act without consequence. 

The emotional, psychological and financial toll has been significant. We do not want this to happen to anyone else, and call on other women to be vigilant. Given his access to resources and spaces, by continuing to provide him a platform to interact with women in these events and shared spaces, the community would be putting more women at risk. 

We strongly call upon Bangalore Climbing Initiatives (BCI), Global Climbing Initiative (GCI), Climb Like a Woman (CLAW), and the extended community to urgently put in place adequate redressal measures that will safeguard our community members - now and in the future - from sexual abuse, violence and intimidation, and hold sexual perpetrators accountable for their egregious and harmful actions. 

We call upon the climbing and other allied communities to stand with us in solidarity. 

In power, 

THE SURVIVORS &amp; ALLIES