SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Crazy incident I had today!
DATE: 2019-10-21
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/dl2g6j/crazy_incident_i_had_today/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tl;dr: a guy followed me in a food court asking me how do you take a turn and not telling what happened. Then threatens me that he will call his father and police. What is this and what can I do about it?

So I went to Vega City Mall (Bannerghatta Road) at noon today. Went on my two wheeler and parked it in mall parking. I take the elevator to the food court on the fourth floor.

As soon as I take 10 steps after coming out of the elevator, a guy *calls* me from behind. He is saying something in Kannada and am not able to comprehend. He looks a bit ruffled and agitated. Then he comes in front of me and says something like trying to start a fight. Then I say Kannada gotilla and he says what language you know Hindi / Kannada?

I said Hindi and English. Then he asks me how do you take a turn? I don't understand and ask him what happened. He is not clear in his language and content and repeats this for sometime. Also doesn't tell me what happened then we stand by the edge of the mall with glass wall and I ask him if the road coming from BTM stage 2 is what he is asking about. He is still adamant at only asking the question, 'how do you take a turn? Can't you give indicator or hand?'. Then he suddenly changes content to I am calling my father and we are calling the police. I am still asking him what happened and he doesn't respond to that. I also told him I am unwell and he can even talk to my doctor and don't want to trouble anyone.

Then he even starts intimidating me saying I will beat you and all. I was very weak and couldn't be aggressive and then he starts going away before coming again saying 'dare you shout at me, I will beat you' when I am still asking what happened. He walks away saying let me call the police and goes away.

This was a very shocking incident for me. Firstly, this guy comes up to the food court of a mall following me and with that doesn't tell me at all what happened. Also the issue he was saying is that I didn't give indicator at the turn and all. Now there was a guy working at a food stall there and he was watching this and I talked to him as well and even he said that it is a nonsense reason to follow someone like this for reason of not giving indicator. Also later I realized the turn he was talking about was a T-point (with one-way road where I turned to) and only possible direction for me to drive was the left-one so don't know what indicator he wanted anyway. Also it was a very empty junction since it was a noon on a weekday at this not so busy crossing.

I then waited a while inside the mall and went outside after sometime to have a look if anyone was there outside or anywhere in mall but didn't find anyone and I left.

Has any one here faced similar situation? What could this be about?

What I was thinking was if someone wanted to exploit me for money he would have created a scene on the road itself. Also following me in a food court in a mall is crazy! That too for asking for indication at a road where one can drive in only one direction.

Also I have had faced a similar situation around 2 years back in the same area (BTM Stage 2) when I was returning back from work on my two wheeler and two guys on a bike *call* me when I am near my home. They are accusing me of suddenly turning on the road. Also looking at both of them they seem *shady* to me. Also they were saying they fell because of me but they were looking all fine. Also their headlights were switched off and neither had a helmet. They created some argument with me and left saying something like '*Theek hai main dekhta hoon tereko*'.

Is this some sort of a scam where these people exploit money out of people who get intimidated by drama of road accident? What action can I take for this - should I do police complaint? There was a CCTV which could capture the guy who came in the food court also.