SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Long arc of Nitish Kumar: From Modi-baiter to BJP’s bridge in Bihar
AUTHOR: Sourav Roy Barman
DATE: 2026-03-05
URL: https://theprint.in/the-fineprint/long-arc-of-nitish-kumar-from-modi-baiter-to-bjps-bridge-in-bihar/2870755/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Since 7 April 2024, there have been five occasions when Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, on bended knees, has publicly attempted to touch the feet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a gesture more commonly associated with a political subordinate seeking to please a superior.
Each time, Modi, visibly uncomfortable, has stopped Nitish, who is five months and 12 days younger than him, from going through with the act.
The arc of that public deference appeared to come full circle on Thursday, when Nitish filed his nomination for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections from Bihar in the presence of Modi’s most trusted lieutenant, Union Home Minister Amit Shah.
Show Full Article
Having secured a record 10th term in office barely three months ago, Nitish, widely credited for pulling Bihar out of a governance morass in the early years of this millennium, and panned for his political prevarications over the past decade, is now set to relinquish the chief minister’s chair in a stunning political denouement.
In many ways, Kumar’s repeated attempts to touch Modi’s feet were a prelude to the political developments that have now unfolded in Patna, marking the culmination of a long and improbable journey from visceral dislike to open genuflection.
After all, Kumar once found Modi so politically repugnant that he pulled the plug on his 17-year alliance with the BJP in 2013. “We cannot have a man who is a divisive figure… There cannot be any compromise with this person, who is a threat to our harmony,” Kumar was quoted as saying after the BJP named Modi the chief of its 2014 Lok Sabha election campaign, effectively anointing him as the party’s prime ministerial candidate.
With the centre of gravity of Indian politics yet to take a decisive rightward turn at the time, the antipathy Nitish harboured towards Modi was not difficult to explain. All the more so for a man steeped in the ideals of socialist icon Ram Manohar Lohia and politically baptised during the Sampoorna Kranti Movement against the Indira Gandhi-led Congress, spearheaded by Jayaprakash Narayan.
Born in 1951 in Bakhtiyarpur near Patna, Nitish, a man of reticent disposition, moved to the state capital in 1966 to study at Patna Science College. He would later go on to earn a degree in Electrical Engineering from the Bihar College of Engineering in 1973.
राज्य सभा के लिए अपना नामांकन पत्र दाखिल किया।
pic.twitter.com/R9mDOHUfYr
— Nitish Kumar (@NitishKumar)
March 5, 2026
Nitish’s first brush with politics came during his Patna Science College days, when he joined the Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha, the youth wing of Ram Manohar Lohia’s Samyukt Socialist Party. He later went on to serve as president of the Bihar Abhiyantran Mahavidyalay Students’ Union (BAMSU).
His early years in Patna coincided with the steady rise of Lalu Prasad Yadav in the state’s political firmament as a student leader. Yet the contrast between the two could hardly have been starker – Nitish, who wore civility and decency on his sleeve, and Lalu, whose appeal rested on an unabashedly rustic charm.
Nitish even campaigned for Lalu who bagged the coveted post of the president of the Patna University Students’ Union. At the same time, he deepened his association with the JP movement, having become a member of the Chhatra Sangharsh Samiti that was spearheading the protests and demonstrations that roiled Bihar at the time.
Also Read:
Modi-Nitish then & now — Two photos, taken 13 yrs apart, reflect ‘cycle that’s moved full circle’
Only constant in Bihar
During the Emergency, he was arrested and jailed under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA).
Despite his early activism, Nitish’s electoral journey began with setbacks. He lost two successive Assembly elections from the Harnaut constituency – in 1977 as a Janata Party candidate, and again in 1980 representing its splinter faction, the Lok Dal.
Nitish’s faltering political ambitions left him bitter and dejected, straining his relationship with his wife, Manju, whom he had married in 1973. At one point, he is said to have told her that he would quit politics if he failed to get elected in his third attempt. Manju, who contributed Rs 22,000 to his campaign fund, stood by him.
In the 1985 Assembly elections, Nitish, bolstered by the backing of Janata stalwarts Chandra Shekhar and Devi Lal, mounted an organised campaign and won the Harnaut seat as a Lok Dal candidate by a margin of over 22,000 votes.
Four years later, in 1989, he was elected to Lok Sabha as a Janata Dal candidate, and returned again in 1991, as the country entered a period of political churn marked by the decline of the Congress and the rise of regional parties, many of them offshoots of the Janata Parivar that had nurtured leaders such as Nitish and Lalu.
In 1990, while serving as a minister of state in the V.P. Singh government at the Centre, Nitish played a key role in Lalu’s elevation as chief minister of Bihar. For the next decade and a half, that decision would prove to be his biggest undoing, as Lalu steadily consolidated his grip over the state’s politics, riding the wave of Mandal politics and pushing contemporaries like Nitish to the margins.
“By 1992, Nitish was not on talking terms with Laloo Yadav,” wrote the late Sankarshan Thakur in
The Brothers Bihari
, his acclaimed biography of the two leaders whose rise and fall, friendship and rivalry came to shape Bihar’s politics over nearly four decades— a journey on which Nitish effectively drew the curtains on Thursday.
“When we worked to elect you, we had believed you would undo the corruption and misgovernance under the Congress rule. But none of that has happened, and you seem uninterested in anything other than perpetuating yourself in power and pandering to your coterie,” Nitish wrote in a missive to Lalu, as documented in the book Bihar:
The Politics of Letters
by journalist Srikant.
In 1994, Nitish parted ways with Lalu, teaming up with George Fernandes to form the Samata Party. Much of that formation would later merge into the Janata Dal (United) in 2003, which Nitish continues to helm. He allied first with the United Front and later with the BJP, registering success in the Lok Sabha elections of 1996, 1998 and 1999.
Yet, even as Nitish tasted success in national politics through the 1990s, power in Bihar remained elusive. Lalu, despite suffering setbacks, including a jail term in the fodder scam that forced him to hand over the chief minister’s post to his wife Rabri Devi, held firmly on to his formidable Yadav-Muslim support base.
In the 2000 Assembly elections, the JD(U)-BJP combine ended up with two more seats than the ruling RJD. The NDA government at the Centre, through the Governor, got Nitish sworn in as chief minister for the first time on 3 March 2000.
The government lasted barely a week, collapsing after it failed to muster the numbers required to prove its majority on the floor of the Assembly. The same year saw the carving out of Jharkhand from Bihar. It was a move that Lalu would never have approved had he not been beholden to Congress’s support.
Thakur wrote in his book that Nitish became the unintended political beneficiary of that decision. The undivided Bihar had a 324-member assembly and sent 54 MPs to the Lok Sabha. Post-division, the assembly was reduced to 243 and the number of Lok Sabha seats to 40.
“In the old arrangement, the BJP was Nitish’s senior Bihar ally as it claimed nearly all the Jharkhand area seats. The new, smaller Bihar meant that Nitish became the larger shareholder in the alliance:
25 of the 40  Lok Sabha s
eats and 139 of the 243 in the assembly. Slowly he began to dictate the Bihar alliance. He got his pick of seats, he laid down the ground rules, chief of which was that in the Bihar scheme he would set agenda and ideology,” observed Thakur.
The year 2005 finally marked Nitish’s arrival as a central figure in Bihar’s politics, the constant survivor in the state’s political minefield until Thursday. After the first round of Assembly elections threw up a fractured mandate, albeit one that considerably weakened the RJD, the second election later that year brought Lalu to his knees, paving the way for Nitish’s first full five-year term in office.
Nitish set in motion a transformation in Bihar’s governance, particularly in infrastructure and law and order, during his first full tenure as chief minister, while also assiduously building a loyal voter bloc among the Economically Backward Classes (EBCs), drawing support from non-dominant OBCs, Muslims and upper castes.
"पूरी तरह से भाजपा ने नीतीश कुमार को हाईजैक कर लिया था, आज यह बात साबित हो गया है!"
@yadavtejashwi
#RJD
#TejashwiYadav
#bihar
pic.twitter.com/M6YRRbzOqN
— Rashtriya Janata Dal (@RJDforIndia)
March 5, 2026
Five years later, he was rewarded at the hustings, winning 115 seats, the highest-ever tally notched up by the JD(U) to date. The sky seemed there for the taking for Nitish, who was increasingly being seen in political circles as a future prime ministerial contender.
It was around this time that Modi began making his presence felt in the national political discourse. For years, Nitish avoided even taking Modi’s name in public and ensured that the BJP kept Modi away from political programmes in Bihar.
Ahead of the 2009 general elections, a reluctant Nitish joined an NDA rally in Ludhiana after being persuaded by the alliance’s prime ministerial candidate L.K. Advani and BJP leader Arun Jaitley. On the stage, Modi clasped Nitish’s hand and held it aloft before a cheering crowd – an act that reportedly left the Bihar chief minister fuming.
In 2010, he even returned Rs 5 crore in relief funds donated by the Modi-led Gujarat government for the 2008 Kosi flood victims. And as previously mentioned, he snapped the JDU’s ties with the BJP in 2013 after it became evident that Modi would be projected as the party’s prime ministerial candidate.
The flip-flops
The BJP’s sweeping victory in the 2014 general elections, which also decimated the JD(U) in Bihar, rattled Nitish. Taking moral responsibility for the defeat, he stepped down as chief minister and installed Jitan Ram Manjhi in his place. Months later, he returned to the post, patched up with Lalu Prasad Yadav in an extraordinary display of political expediency, and handed the BJP a crushing defeat in the 2015 Assembly polls.
Within two years, however, he returned to the NDA fold, once again tying up with the BJP and ditching the RJD. In the 2020 Assembly elections, the JD(U) took a battering, but Nitish retained the chief minister’s post in coalition with the BJP. In 2022, he switched sides yet again, joining hands with the RJD, Congress and the Left to form a new government, remaining at the helm.
By 2024, as the country headed into another round of Lok Sabha elections, Nitish jumped ship once more, abandoning the INDIA bloc after it failed to name him as its convener despite his desire to lead it. “I am not going anywhere hereon,” Nitish, by then widely dubbed ‘Paltu Ram’ for his frequent political somersaults, remarked when asked about his moves.
In November 2025, Nitish returned to power with a comfortable mandate, with his party, the JDU, winning 85 seats and the BJP-led NDA securing a landslide 202 of the 243 seats in the Bihar Assembly.
Even as he held on to the reins of power, the buzz around Nitish’s evidently failing health and memory grew louder, fuelled by a string of unusual public episodes – placing a flower pot on the head of an officer at a government function, making graphic remarks while explaining birth control in the Assembly, gesturing and speaking while the national anthem was being played, pulling down the hijab of a Muslim medical student during an interaction, and indeed, attempts to touch Modi’s feet.
For a man who once vowed, in a moment of frustration after an early electoral defeat, that he would gain power “by hook or by crook” and then do good work with it, Nitish’s political journey ultimately became a story less about governance than about political survival.
(Edited by Ajeet Tiwari)
Also Read:
Nitish’s exit is good for Bihar. It’s the beginning of JD(U)’s end and BJP’s supremacy