SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Bank of America Scam
DATE: 2023-05-05
SCORE: 788
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/138mjkw/bank_of_america_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I narrowly avoided falling for a very convincing scam. 

 I got a text message from Bank of America about fraudulent charges. I logged onto the BoA website and there were 2 attempts at purchasing a Sam's Club membership. As I was going through the screens on the BoA website, I got a robocall. I answered and there was a recording saying "this is BoA fraud department. If we get disconnected, please call back at xxx-xxx-xxxx (I don't remember the number and I didn't write it down.)

A woman with a heavy indian accent comes on the line and says she has to verify my account and can she send me a code. (Red flag, but OK.) A few seconds later, I get a text from BoA with a code and the warning that "we will never call or text you asking for this code" so I definitely wasn't giving out the code and I just hung up. 

This was really convincing because there ARE 2 fraudulent charges on my account and every text I received from BoA was real. I had previous texts from them about other transactions and logins. When I logged into my account, I used my bookmarked page and my password manager saved password popped up (which wouldn't have happened if it was a fake site without the right domain.) 

I don't know if the timing of the call was coincidental or not---I don't see how they could have known I was on the real BoA website looking into the fraudulent charges but since my phone rang as I was literally hitting "submit" on the fraud page, it made perfect sense to me that they would be calling asking for more details so they can investigate. 

Thank you to this subreddit!! I knew immediately that I shouldn't give out the code so I saved myself a huge headache of being locked out of my credit card account.

EDIT: I already contacted BoA to notify them, then they cancelled my card and they're sending me a new one.

EDIT 2: I also changed all of my login credentials for the website.