SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Bank employee tried to sell Insurance without consent while opening a bank account.
DATE: 2023-05-25
SCORE: 20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/13rbetc/bank_employee_tried_to_sell_insurance_without/

--- POST TEXT ---

Few days back Me and my sister went to open a bank account in SBI, and they told us the forms which needs to be submitted. We got the necessary documents; our process was almost completed we just needed to get a sign off from an employee, but she went to lunch (as usual). We again went there the following day. We were told to deposit a 2000Rs, 

Here comes the scam part.

After depositing the 2000 Rs , Yono app and internet banking needs to be created, so they gave another 4 forms and asked my sister sigh wherever the tick marks are, as we are out of patients (waited for 3 hours) and wanted to finish these things as soon as possible, my sister signed wherever the Clerk insisted. 
We have successfully created a yono account and the clerk told us to fill a form in yono app, my sister started fill all the data, at this time I looked into her phone the title of that page was “SBI General Life Insurance” then I asked clerk, is it a life insurance form? Why are you making us sign up for an insurance scheme without our consent. At first she wanted to convince us as stating it is a mandatory, Later after some arguments, she started saying it is for your benefit only sir we don’t get anything from it, and started narrating a sad story “that recently one of the account holder lost his life in an accident he had 3 daughters they all come to our branch and vented if there is an insurance for him. It only takes 500 per year, it is not a big deal.” I know 500 per year is not a big deal but they should have mentioned this to the customer before making them blindly sign for it, 2 of the forms are regarding the insurance policy. She never mentioned a word about insurance or premium deduction from account during the process. 

 I think it is a scam. Did anyone face similar scams while opening an account offline or is it one off scenario?

I know that every branch has to meet their monthly quotas of selling products like policies ,credit cards etc.. and they are pressurized by upper management to meet their quotas, but this is not the right way to do it.

And it took almost 4-5 hours to open an account. I think Digitization of banking in India happened decade ago, there should Less forms, and less waiting time.