SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: International Students Scamming from Ukraine
DATE: 2024-03-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1bq5bso/international_students_scamming_from_ukraine/

--- POST TEXT ---

Ukraine, until recently was an affordable place for a lot of south-asian students, especially for those who wanted to pursue medicine. I also studied there until recently, while the war has been going on. But what I have witnessed has been very disturbing. A lot of students, who are earning on the sides, are doing it by scamming people. The scams I witnessed are of different kinds. 

1) Calling people (usually old ones) and offering them "supplements" they don't need medically or selling it to them in large quantities to fill the quota. I haven't heard much of it. Just a few cases. 

2) This is the most widespread and the most famous. Joining a trading scam call-center. The scam call centre is usually headed by a Ukranian or European guy, at least the bigger ones. New ones are also run by South-Asians, Africans and Middle-Eastern people, other nationals may be involved too but I have not heard about it. 

As everybody around us was earning good amounts of money, me and a few of my friends once tried to figure out what the whole deal was about. I am a religious person, so as soon as we started talking to our other friends about what they were doing, I figured it was a scam and decided to not go into it. My friends, even though I advised them repeatedly again it, did not listen and joined. 

You cannot join by yourself and should be suggested by a current employee. All of it then starts with an interview and a lie-detector test. Apparently the questions you are asked are a lot of general stuff, some personal stuff (if you have a partner etc) and obviously if you have been sent by the police. Then you undergo training for a week or two. The office is fully furnished, has everything and more you would find in an office, including free refreshments. Each office has at least 1-2 techies which deal with hiding IP addresses for the center. From what I have heard, the IP changes for every call and every few minutes. 

Once all of that is done, you join the the call-center as a basic employee, being paid around $700-$1000 a month. You get 10%-30% of everyone you scam as a bonus. If you are unable to reach your numbers, you are fired. These guys are usually told to keep their scams below $500, but during this scam they ask as many details as they can. Creating a profile of the victim (KYC - Know Your Customer - Commonly done by banks in India). This KYC is a bit different though, it includes his name, Govt ID, Bank account numbers, approximate value of property he owns, money in the bank etc. All this data is later sold to another scamming center or reused in case the present center is raided or made to move. This data also helps to figure out how much money can be scammed. 

Basic employees are not allowed to handle 'clients' who have any amount above $1500, those are shifted to the retention department, this department has experienced scammers, who are good with crypto knowledge, investing and other stuff like that. I have heard really horrific stories about this one. Old people robbed of all their saving, people selling their houses to invest, people stuck in loans, people crying on calls about their loses and scammers asking them to invest even more. The stories are really really horrific. 

A friend of mine, who worked in one of these scam centers for a month, as a basic employee, told me he cried almost everyday and would barely sleep after figuring out what was going on. Maybe he already knew what it was and changed once he experienced it firsthand inside, i do not know. But he was, it seemed, in depression. He told me he did not scam anybody for the whole month and that is why he was fired. 

These scammer students are mostly Indians (around 50-60% at least, if not more as they are the largest group of international students in Ukraine). Obviously a good number of Ukrainians are also part of these scams. There are Ukrainian centers also who only have Ukrainians scammers in them. [This case](https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/13-held-for-fraud-on-the-pretext-of-currency-trading-101677695265747.html), when it happened, scared some international students, the origin center of this scam is in Kyiv itself (also remember them talking about [this one](https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/ukraine-cracks-down-on-investment-scams-raids-call-centers-a-22386)). But then, they would tell each other that these scam center was being too brazen in their scams, implying they are not and thus would not be caught. 

They have apps on playstore and websites, like atomic wallet and quantum wallet and maybe some other. They tell the victims to send them money, which then "flashes" on the app (which they already own). The customer thinks this is a third party wallet and thus lowers his guard, then he is shown profit but he cannot withdraw the amount yet, he is told to wait and till then asked to invest even more till the waiting time ends. In some centers, I think they are even able to "flash" the amount on your account for a few seconds. 

A lot of these students have amassed a good amount of money. Universities warn people against joining any such centers. Universities, I suppose are aware about what is going on but cannot do much about it. Students are paying their whole fees themselves, buying iphones, macs and luxury perfumes and luxury clothing. You might think I am talking about a few cases, but believe me, it is pretty widespread. 

I just wanted to share this somewhere, so that it remains documented somewhere. In case, someone someday needs it.