SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: 4 LeT terrorists, including 2 local men with body cams, carried out Pahalgam killings
AUTHOR: Snehesh Alex Philip
DATE: 2025-04-23
URL: https://theprint.in/india/4-let-terrorists-including-2-local-men-with-body-cams-carried-out-pahalgam-killings/2599926/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Pahalgam:
A group of four Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists, including two locals, armed with AK-47 rifles with steel tipped bullets and wearing body cameras, singled out Hindus among tourists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pahalgam Tuesday and sprayed them with bullets.
Sources in the security establishment said that the two locals have been identified as Aadil Hussain Thoker of Bijbehara and Aasif Sheikh of Tral.
The two Pakistani terrorists seem to be of Pashtun background, the sources said.
Show Full Article
Sources emphasized that all four terrorists involved in the attack are from the Pakistan-based LeT, despite The Resistance Front (TRF) claiming responsibility. The TRF, they said, is a front for LeT, used to portray the attack as the work of an indigenous group.
It is also believed that the terrorists had come in earlier and the original plan was to carry out an attack during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 19 April Katra visit, which was later cancelled.
Sources also denied that the attack was to target any group of officers from any intel agency. They added that a staff member of the Intelligence Bureau had come down with family on holiday and was among those killed.
The four terrorists had come to Baisaran meadows—popularly known as Maggi Point or Mini Switzerland—armed with body cameras and AK-47 rifles, it is learnt.
The terrorists asked for names and separated the Hindu men based on that and other identifying features. It is understood that at least two men tried to conceal their religious identity, which the attackers later confirmed.
The women and children were moved aside.
The group of four terrorists then opened fire at the men and fled the area. The recovered shells were that of AK-47s besides armoured piercing bullets, also known as steel bullets.
Sources said that the entire operation by the terrorists lasted about 15 minutes.
When asked if more terrorists were present on the ridge, sources said such groups typically operate with up to six members, and it’s possible one or two were stationed as lookouts.
The security forces have launched a massive manhunt for the group of terrorists. Special forces have also been deployed.
According to sources, there was an intelligence input of terrorists being seen in the nearby areas but others dismissed it as routine alerts that are sent out by intel agencies around important events.
When asked why no security forces were deployed in the area despite the high number of tourists and the ongoing tourism season, sources said they did not anticipate an attack on tourists, as such incidents also harm locals. They added that authorities also aimed to present the area as a safe zone, rather than one where tourists are greeted by security personnel toting guns.
The attack, which claimed 26 lives, marks a significant setback for the Narendra Modi government, prompting the PM to cut short his visit to Saudi Arabia. Upon his return, Modi reviewed the security situation at the technical area of the airport in the national capital.
(Edited by Zinnia Ray Chaudhuri)
Also read:
‘Hollow claims of normalcy’: Rahul Gandhi slams Centre as terrorists kill at least 26 in Pahalgam