SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Is this job fake, we’re they just spoofing?
DATE: 2023-07-24
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/158hos2/is_this_job_fake_were_they_just_spoofing/

--- POST TEXT ---

I think I may be a victim of a spoofing scam

Recently I was hired at AQuity Solutions. I immediately came to this subreddit to verify it was legit as everything seemed a little off. I applied through Indeed.
When it came to training day, I received a rather strange looking email. Very unprofessional looking, color coded, different fonts, all sized differently and the email attachment was getting flagged by gmail as being suspicious and containing encrypted info. At this point AQuity has already obtained my I9, my socail and ID, and my bank info for direct deposit.

The email addresses all appear normal, but when I look up the recruiters on LinkedIn they have 13-15 connections which felt odd for such a large company. In training there were many questions that everyone seemed to ask. AQuity initally told us 12/hr at hire, the new hire paperwork says 11/hr during training. Sucks, but what can I do. During training they explain that you will only be paid what you work, which amounts to approx. 13.5 hours of actual work, everything else requires you to log-out unpaid.

When I got to the portion of training that required accessing Workforce and their Scribe training website both get immediately flagged by Chrome. They make suggestions like deleting cookies, adding it to chrome's safe-site setting, and eventually when all of that failed told me to contact IT.

Once I did, a guy from, what I assume to be India, answers and wants to remote access my personal device. This immediately triggered a red flag for me. I know enough about computers to know that there isn't really a reason anyone would need to remote access my personal device for a website issue. Were we on company devices I'd be more inclined to allow it, but I'm not about to allow access to my files and command prompt.

Nothing feels right and I’m highly concerned about how much personal data they already have. I’ve changed passwords and contacted my bank, but when I look online everything seems legit. Same website (as far as I can tell), emails all end in @Aquitysolutions.com.

I’ve read that recently scammers have become really good at spoofing emails and websites. But I’m feeling so disappointed that this might be the case.

Any help is greatly appreciated