SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Got scammed by an escort service provider off of 5k rupees, feeling like killing myself rn.
DATE: 2024-08-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1f1ml5n/got_scammed_by_an_escort_service_provider_off_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I contacted an escort service guy I found online and he got me a pretty cheap offer

red flag one:- He asked for booking payment of 500 rupees. I renegotiated it to 300 rupees and he willingly accepted. The total price for the service was 1.5k

red flag two:- He didn't allow me to use my own condoms and said that I have to pay 200 rupees more for that.

red flag three:- when he was supposed to bring the girl to my place, he asked me out of nowhere to pay 5k rupees security deposit which he said that he would return later. I renegotiated the offer to 3k rupees and I paid online. Then he made excuses saying that the girl wasn't willing to come to me as I hadn't paid full 5k ( I was like why did you even make me pay 3k rupees if you weren't gonna send the girl! )

I repeatedly requested him to return my 3k rupees atleast, but he refused, then he said that he has police connections and all. Even after repeated requests, he kept refusing to return my money. So I blocked him and left.

Feeling like absolute shit rn. I only have 1k rupees to spend for the entire month of September ( I am a college student ) and my bank account is drained. My parents don't check my spendings often, but by God if they do and they don't buy my excuses then I am done for. I was supposed to prepare for my upcoming exams and do projects for my CV but instead my dumbass fell for such a stupid scam online. I am literally feeling like killing myself rn.

My only hope is that my parents don't find out about this. Normally I would have learnt my lesson and focussed on earning the money back, but I might just jump in front of a metro because the thought of me getting involved in such shit is eating me. I am convinced that I am the dumbest person on earth.

So guys, never trust any paid escort services online. They are all fake!

If anyone asks you for money before even letting you meet the girl, it is a scam and you should run away. Don't fuck up like me.

The contact number was:- 8780159179