SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Am I fucked up? Please Everyone Help me! 🙏
DATE: 2025-03-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1jbqpk2/am_i_fucked_up_please_everyone_help_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone I need some help regarding my complaint cyber crime online report. Here's my story begins, On 13th March (a day before holi) i ordered some phone skins from a website called wrappi and paid via UPI (Google pay) and I got an SMS from shiprocket stating " Your order from Wrappi with order number ***** is confirmed." And also got an email from razorpay about my transaction done. But I didn't get any confirmation email from the wrappi about the order details. But when I put the shiprocket order id in wrappi's website order tracking section, it only shows "order has been already placed" and nothing else. 

I tried to contact them via phone number, but number is not reachable so I wrote an email and explaining everything but no response either. 
So after waiting 6 hours i lodge a complaint on cyber crime portal and next day 14th March (Day of holi) i got a call from my local police station saying visit in the police station, and I said I can't right now so they said okay come to 15th March (today) and I visited today.

And it's my time to visit a police station and I was scared too, and I again explained the situation. But police officer said, you should have to wait for couple of days before lodging a complain, i said " i would but when I contacted them (wrappi) via phone and email they didn't responded so I feel I should lodge complaint" And police officer said "what if he is legit and send you the courier after couple of days? They can also take legal actions against you for false allegations, because your action will froze their bank account and hurt their business".

And that moment I realised that can be also true and I said to the officer " is there any way to withdraw or cancel the case? He said no, what you did is not a game, as of now you can go home our investigation will be on &amp; we will call you if any information we get" so I came back home and feeling very scared and guilty now. I also checked &amp; tracked my case on cyber crime portal, my case is still pending and there's withdrawal case option too but it says " No data found". 

I'm very scared right now and thinking what if the company is legit and send me the courier, will they file a case against me too or just they will say to withdraw the case somehow? Please everyone help . What should I do now. 🙏🙏🙏