SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Terrible Customer Service from Crocs India
DATE: 2024-03-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1bk10my/terrible_customer_service_from_crocs_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

We little people are powerless against the abuses by these companies. All I can do is vent here a little and make people aware of what these companies are doing.

I ordered one of their most expensive clogs (Hiker Xscape) from crocs india website, because it looked comfortable and unique.

First of all the shoes were terrible. What was advertised as flexible rubber material, was instead a hard inflexible plastic material. Just trying it out for a few minutes hurt my heels, my nails and upper feet. So I asked for a return and refund immediately. It was picked up early morning next day, and took 5 days to deliver to their warehouse. This is where the problems started.

Once they received the returned shoes, their website showed multiple conflicting statuses - return received, return rejected, return delivered. The resolution also said "refund to original payment method". 

I was confused and called their customer service. After spending 30 minutes on hold, a customer service agent picked up and immediately cut the line. I called again, waited 30 minutes again, this time the customer service agent assured me that since the return is received, it can't be rejected. The rejected status must have been a mistake. Don't worry, you will get refund in 7-14 days,

After 10 more days, there were no updates at all, and no refund. I could not reach their customer service on phone. So I emailed them asked for status update. They said that it was is not 14 business days yet, so I should continue waiting.

Then after 21 days, and 15 business days (counting monday to friday), there was still no refund and update. I called their customer service, who said they will check with finance department and get back to me with refund transaction number. They never called me back.

Then I emailed their customer service. Now they tell me, since the refund process was just started manually (whatever that means) and with no other explanation or apologies or any sincerity, that I will have to wait 12-14 business days more to get my refund, starting now. That means 20 more days of waiting, and at the end which they might pull this same nonsense. It just seems like a scam where they get to keep my shoes and not refund me the money indefinitely.

Thank you for reading my rant. I have filed a complaint in the national consumer forum, don't know if that will amount to anything. My advice to anyone buying crocs shoes - go and try out in their stores first. Don't rely on their website's product descriptions and their customer service to help you out. Or don't buy from them. Don't reward such companies. Honestly I also have Bata's much cheaper FLOATZ clogs. They may not look as good, but are infinitely more comfortable.