SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: I have been scammed. Threw away all my life learnings and superficial education by placing trust on a stranger.
DATE: 2022-04-11
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/u18wun/i_have_been_scammed_threw_away_all_my_life/

--- POST TEXT ---

While I consider myself to be ever so cautious with everything but in the chase and haste of looking for PGs to rent with patience running out, I chanced on this guy named Bhimsingh who thoroughly clowned me by scalping away 4K to book a property near Mulund. And to acquire my refund I need to pay the rest of the PG amount...Thus I am become misery realising this is a scam...I think I may reach a state of enlightenment soon. I feel comically comatose in the brain.

Here's how it went. I am looking for properties and I fi Zolo to have one decent place near-abouts where I wanted. To book online 1K was to be paid and all it had on the website was pictures which I found to be quite unreasonable to be having to pay 1k and all you had for it was pictures in terms of info. So i spin the customer care number and it didn't go through. So i google online and for zolo pg near mulund there was a number listed in the google Q&amp;A section(I should have freaking stopped here!!). I dial the number and this heavy north accent voice comes through from a guy named Bhimsingh. Bhimsingh sounds like our typical fixer goody-two shoes who wants to help me. I definitely needed help as I urgently needed a PG without security deposit for 1 month. He says that he is in charge of the property I need, I just need to pay 1K to him with which I'll be able to get a gate-pass through which I can check the property out physically. 1K swiftly served to mr bhimsingh. Now he sends me a pic of a rental agreement that seemed like quickly spun up checklist of 7 basic details. Wait a sec..so that 7th detail drew my attention. It said I needed to pay 3000 rs as a security deposit. I called Bhimsingh to inquire about this 

and he said "oh yes why not yes you need to pay 3K as a deposit...", I interject saying "But there was no security deposit. you assured me on this..". Bhimsingh: "Yes ofcourse! as soon as you send it you will get it back right on call!". He sounded so sure of it that i was certainly sure of it and thus went another 3K to his upi account. Now what? ofc nothing i am become clowned. I called him back that the refund hasn't happened yet and he says it will happen there is some upi limit on his end! So i obliged him with few more hours..Called him again after few hrs at 8PM and he says I need to pay him 4.9K more ".. and dont worry this wont get deducted..I am using merchant account so it is part of the process. I will get in return my 4K back."..So I open my app enter upi pin and hold on a sec things go for a swirl in my end as I realise that I have been truly scammed and I am further obliging him here for the same...I quickly back out of the app and transfer all amount to another of my account and continue with the earlier process which was bound to fail now as my upi account has insufficient funds at this point..he is on call through all this..and the transaction fails. I relay this to that f**** on the other end, he goes quiet for a minute, then his voice picks up and mumbles "let me do this again later via other means. I will surely refund you the amount soon.".. I am quite sure he wont. Thus today, 2nd day, of my clowing, after multiple calls to him, he has mostly evaded all questions and quickly hung up asking he needs more time. Now my latest call with him he says "You need to pay me rest of the PG amount so I can refund you fully as it is not being validated on my system..".. At this point I have lost my temper and demand him to pay the amount or suffer the consequences that may come his way. He remains adamant that I need to pay full amount to get a refund back..Yeah right.. 

Honestly I am not quite sure I can do anything at all. I think even the cops will laugh on my face..besides I would definitely not be the first one who this has guy has scammed..I dont quite understand how these scammers are allowed to operate in India even. can i do anything at all to get my 4K back?

TLDR; looking for PG near mulund on Zolo, had queries. the care contact didnt work so tried a different number which i found on google in a Q&amp;A section. called the person, gave him 4K.1K booking amount. later 3K security deposit which i was to get instantly right back. turns out i never get back the 3K amount. To cancel the booking I need to pay full PG amount so i can get back the refund which is obviously a lie to further extract more money from me. scammed. fuck.