SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I think my grandmother is being scammed?
DATE: 2018-07-22
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/90ry0m/i_think_my_grandmother_is_being_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

(Sorry for the bad formatting, I’m on mobile.) 

Okay so this type of thing has been happening for a while. She’s my grandma but, she adopted me so for the sake of this I’ll call her my mom. She goes on this dating sites for old people and “falls in love” with these military guys. 

This happened two times. The first time, i reversed image searched this guys picture and guess who’s picture this guy was using? The President and CEO of The Hershey company John Bilbrey! Are you kidding me?! When I explained to my mom that the guy she’s talking to is fake and using someone else’s picture especially some rich CEO, she got mad.

She wouldn’t believe me and said I was trying to stop her from being happy. And she still continues to tell people that I was wrong and that he isn’t the Hershey company CEO. Supposedly, this guy lived England and my mom wanted to fly all the way from America to Europe just to see this guy who isn’t even who they say they are.Every time he says he’ll visit, he always makes excuses. “I’m too busy, I’m sick, my daughter is sick” and the most dumbest off all, “I got hit by a car” he said that two days before he was supposed to visit. Now she’s talking to a new guy And I need Reddits help.

This new guy she’s talking to is named “joe”. And he’s in the military who is serving in Afghanistan. He is saying he has all this money he is willing to give her if she goes to western union or use a capital one card. I keep telling her now to trust this guy but she just shuts me out and says we have no money to give anyway. Today, this guy called her and he had a thick Indian accent. He’s supposed to be American serving in the Middle East? And when I say thick, I mean THICK. The last straw I had is when her bank called me saying they saw suspicious activity on her account so they shut it down. She starts yelling at them on the phone saying “Joe” trying to send her 8 thousand and blaming me for answering the damned phone. Does this second guy sound like a scam Reddit? I’m starting to just let her do what she wants now. 

The Hershey’s company guys head was photoshopped onto someone else’s body, and she tries to make excuses. She tells people I’m being a smart mouth and, “ just because you took photoshop in school doesn’t mean you’re an expert” 

Is this new “joe” person a scam also?

EDIT: Please help me explain to my mom that this is all a fantasy. I already did it once with the first guy, and won’t let any of her sisters or me tell her anything about “Joe”

EDIT: Her cat just got repossessed and is crying because “joe” promised her money to pay for it but never did