The reason I have raised this complaint is that, my previous one was closed without any proper response and justification. Now, they are attempting another scam...Please take a look para of 20 Mar 24. I've enrolled in the AZ500 course with certification for self-paced learning. At the time of enrolment, the counselor mentioned that it’s a PPT video, pre-recording class videos, and one complementary course also included in this 10, 000 INR, and I paid accordingly. On the next day, I contacted the counselor about the login credentials they arranged on the same day. I appreciated that. but E-learning so-called PDF/PPT recording videos are added to the portal, which are hardly less than 1 hour videos. As per the above commitment given by the counselor, the pre-recording of class videos and one complementary course are not added to the portal, and again, I contacted her through the WhatsApp platform. She did not respond to my WhatsApp text. I waited for 2 days, and she texted finally and said it would be added to the dashboard by EOD. Unfortunately, it wouldn’t have happened. After 2 days, I raised a ticket for pre-recording class videos and one complementary course. The support team emailed that an E-learning course has been added. On the same day I raised a ticket again, no such courses are available for you because I have opted for self-paced. Here, the actual game of knowledge academy was started. Again, I tried to contact a counselor about this issue. But she blocked my number. After one week, I realised that they (the Knowledge Academy) cheated. For the purchase of this course, I have saved my two months’ salary. I tried to reach the support team by creating log tickets and emails, but there was no use. I think they have not prepared for an answer. Finally, after 4 days, i.e., March 5, 24, I got a call from the support team (Malavika). She started a new game in which I had to pay 10k INR more to access this course, but during the email conversation, they did not mention the part payment. These people are not humans; literally, they cheat customers by catching learning platforms. The support team is deceptive and wastes your time. They only employ individuals for their financial benefits. 20 Mar 24: A few days ago, I received a call from the knowledge academy from refund team(Rahul Tripati: [protected]) and mail from Rajat also. on call(Rahul Tripati), they said it's an online process. I need to fill out the details. I was unable to start the process because of my busy work schedule, but I contacted them today to begin the refund process. As instructed by the process, I have to install the Any-desk app and after that, they said enter my Name, Bank debit card details including CVV information. When I inquired about why my bank debit card details are being required. Then, I am being forced to enter all the details by them, and they shouted to enter details and I'm completely confused. I am aware that they are trying to deceive me. I stated that I will provide all transaction details if needed, but I wont disclose debit card details. I asked them to transfer the money to my account which i paid to academy through UPI. they declined. Scammers...!!! It is my belief that a behind-the-scenes Knowledge Academy may be involved. I don’t understand why senior management or managers are not monitoring or reviewing. This post should be shared with all, and they should get some benefit from the fraud knowledge academy. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)