SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scammed out of 7k from an oyo scheme. What to do?
DATE: 2020-02-19
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/f5ztm6/scammed_out_of_7k_from_an_oyo_scheme_what_to_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

I booked a hotel on OYO yesterday and got inside the reception at which the manager asked me to wait so I did. I was tired and sleepless from the flight and last night, hungry. As soon as I sat on the sofa, I received a call from someone at oyo telling me about payment method issues and how I can get 10% off by paying via Paytm. Okay but where to, how. I was skeptical of the call until the guy told me about the amount, business name, my phone numbers on the app, checked in-check out dates etc. Then he told me to wait and see the payment being done on my hotel booking, I did for 5 minutes and saw that the payment was done somehow. I received another call to send the amount to a Paytm number, biggest mistake I did it because of confusion and tiredness. And that the guy had my details, actually did something with the payment details on the app. I sent him the payment after which I checked in at the room. Okay, after eating something and getting back to life. I was confused why oyo would call me and that number didn't seem right. I checked back in the oyo app and it said the payment was done through a cheque (updated details). Now it ring a lot of bells and I was sure this was some sort of scam. (Fuck me for telling people to be aware and falling for something like this)

I clicked on the chat with oyo option. I had my chat immediately cut off after I asked about the thing due to "technical issues".
Another chat cancelled, called them to ask about it, stuck on transfering call to an executive for an hour, hanged up and called again. No information yet about anything. Nothing. This happened 5 times, then I got on chat again. Another weird topic to just cut off the chat.

I didn't bother then and just went to sleep. Whatever happened, I was ready to have lost the amount anyway. Now the hotel guy is having problems because he see the payment is done and what not but he didn't recieve anything. 

I am curious about how they got so many details, how someone hijacked my payment and why nobody at oyo is telling me anything other than generic bullshit of passing me to an executive which they don't even. Some excuses are lame. Their chat interface is awful, it hides the previous conversations and names, noticed it too late but I still have some screenshots I got somehow.

Link to whatever I could salvage without oyo app removing it: https://m.imgur.com/gallery/4irFDxK

Update on today: The company people called me to suck it up multiple times. It was from their in-app number, LOL. They told me that the payment would show up or I will get refunded without connecting me to an executive. I recieved calls from the other number with 4 different people telling me about it. 

Any help would be useful. Currently in Hyderabad. Told the cyberabad cyberpolice and wrote a complaint.

Sharing it on twitter and other places might be helpful too. 

I have a few audio recordings as well which I will share later. 

Thanks.