SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Facing Threats from My Employer: A Disturbing Experience
DATE: 2023-08-12
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15oocvn/facing_threats_from_my_employer_a_disturbing/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone, I'm sharing a recent experience that has left me in a tough spot, and I could really use some advice on how to handle it. I'm a last-year college student, was working as a software dev trainee at an early-stage startup. Here's how it all went down: 

 
When I joined, there were nine other trainees with me, and the company had no senior developers. We had a few freelancers around. they had assigned one trainer to us. This trainer only showed up once a week, and after a month, it dwindled to once a month. We were thrown into live projects with just 15 days of training, and it didn't end well for some. Three trainees were terminated for low performance reasons in jsut 2 months, another resigned, and one more was fired for taking two days off without asking. This left only four of us trainees. 

 
Time passed, and our training was nearing its end, but there was no talk of a PPO (Pre-Placement Offer) from the company. When we asked about it, they made excuses, saying we needed to work more days as trainee due to the leave days we took. The salary they offered was also lower than what was initially discussed in the interview. We agreed at that time, started quietly job hunting, and continued at the company until we find new job. 

 
During this time, we were requesting the option to work from home (WFH). Here comes the main part: one of my colleague and I were storing code we developed on GitHub to enhance our profiles. It were mainly a static frontend website with almost no backend and dummy data, and we thought it would be a good showcase. Somehow, the company found out about this. 

 
One day, they told us to bring our personal laptops for a WFH setup and started checking our GitHub and emails. It felt like a setup, as the co-founder and another person were present that day (which was unusual because in 6 months they have came only two times). They accused us of breaching confidentiality, claiming that the client had sent them a $1.5 million notice. They threatened us, saying they'd call the police, ruin your careers, and forced to delete GitHub account and forced to sign a confession stating that i have stole code and uploaded it on github and deleted it, and i have given my laptop for "investigation" to the company.(even-though i tried to to leave office they forced me to not leave until i sign it) 

 
They told us not to come to the office until they say so. my colleague and I talked after going out of office, he had experienced a similar stuff, except they told him about a $125,000 notice from the client, even though the client is based in India and has no office outside India. We reached out to different people for advice, and most suggested we request our laptops back first. 

 
After a couple of days, we went to request our laptops, but they said to have sent them to the client for investigation. We didn't argue much and left. Every day, we sent emails requesting the return of our laptops, but they never replied. After we grew tired of this, we sent an email stating that possession of my laptop without explicit consent would be considered theft of personal property. 

 
after two days, we received a message that we've been terminated based on a recent incident, citing a violation of the trainee agreement and a serious breach of the organization's policies involving unauthorized use and distribution of proprietary code. They're demanding ₹40,000 for losses and damages, along with a refund of the ₹40,000 training cost, which they're doubling to ₹80,000. 

 
I'm feeling lost and confused about what to do. If anyone has any suggestions or advice, I'd be really grateful. Thank you for listening, and any help would be appreciated!