Hello Sir/Ma’am, (Extorted more than 90000) I am HIMANI UPADHYAY and I am a dependent girl but a soft and polite one. But what happened with me today was completely inhuman and non bail able offence . Today I got a call from the SCAMMER and he said “Hello, this is *Amazon Multinational*, my name is Carinaau. Are you here to learn how to make money online?“ This was opening lines of the guy presuming as a Manager and recruiting the kids for online Amazon Stores I thought he was talking genuinely, so I decided let’s look up for that. He just said that You we need a MOBILE PHONE or COMPUTER to perform the task, complete the order sent by the system, you can get the corresponding reward, earn[protected] Indian rupees every day, and REBATE within *3-5 MINUTES OF THE TRANSACTION* which was BIG LIE Money never got credited . Then he made me register over the app and asked to sign up for an AMAZON TASK ACCOUNT. RESGISTRATION LINK SHARED BY HIM (Registration will automatically distribute a reward of INR 118, Please open the link: http://amazon257.com/register?codeNumber=13666) Later on He changed his whole story to started saying we have to apply for 4 order tasks, Select the order task you want to complete, 1. Deposit 300, earn 300, withdraw 600 2. Deposit 600, earn 500, withdraw 1100 3. Deposit 1000, earn 800, withdraw 1800 4. Deposit 2000, earn 1500, withdraw 3500. His own statement got contradictory when he said that Cash can be withdrawn after completing the mission i.e completion of all the 4 task. Then he gave me a telegram link saying there will a teacher helping you with this profile and addition of money then withdrawal too.First transaction was just 300 but later on the next transaction was more than 2000 . It didn’t stop here they took 10000 after that then the amount got droubled tripled . After I payed 20000, I got scared started asking why are you people doing this to me even then you lied then also they didn’t stop . I live alone after I decided to leave home due to domestic violence between me and my father . So I cannot take help from my family and I left my job too like 3-4 months back so there is lot of financial crisis I am facing . I just wanted to earn money with honestly but these people are cruel for humanity they don’t feel any emotions that the people they are looting might be facing suicidal thoughts too, frankly I am very stress after this incidence …… *THEY EXTORTED 90000 *from me where in was forced infact I was literally tortured over the phone that my 90000 got blocked etc etc…… I literally begged them cried over to them don’t do this thing to me . Actually this is MOLESTATION AGAINST ME . I have their recording I have everything thing, every prove that might help me and others too in this CRUEL GAME OF THE SCAMMERS. I WOULD LIKE TO GET INFORMED ABOUT THIS CONCERN OF MINE AND I AM LOOKING FORWARD FOR THIS . I am in an urgent need of money I am not left with a single penny also . Please HELP ME., I NEED IT . Regard’s Himani Upadhyay [protected] [protected]@gmail.com Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (4)