SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: I’m a 26 (M) - I have started taking investments seriously but I have no idea what to do with my money.
DATE: 2025-04-02
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1jps93j/im_a_26_m_i_have_started_taking_investments/

--- POST TEXT ---

Context: I come from a v humble muslim family, parents always lived paycheque to paycheque, took loans to get us through school and college. The idea of financial independence, investments and so and so forth has always been alien to me. It always seemed like a “scam” where people lose money etc. Plus, the no interest policy instilled by an orthodox mentality always kept us away from even educating ourselves about the markets etc. 

However, a few years ago, an uncle in the family made me go to his personal finance guy and start an LIC, a Mediclaim and start with SIPs (I have about 35k split in 3 small cap funds) I’ve always been a freelancer, so earnings have always been uncertain but working in the UAE did give me some advantage to saving money, and all I knew was to buy Gold - which I eventually ended up selling because I wanted to fund my music career (which is also something I want to save up for). 

I’m now 26, feeling like I’ve already lost some crucial years not really planning my long term goals, well, most of my life has been in survival mode so never really thought I’d even make it past 25. But I want to change things now and seriously invest in stocks, FDs, MF, Gold etc and maybe even want to buy property. 

My current state: I have started working in the UAE as a freelancer again, and I can save anywhere at least 2L - 3L per year. However, I don’t know where to put my money. 

I don’t even know what my goals should look like honestly. But some things that I want to do are semi retire by 40-50, like want to live a comfortable life by then, own a house back home, build a studio for myself, want to go abroad for music education, want to generate a passive source of income via investments in my 30s. 

Any and all tips would be highly appreciated. Feeling super lost, don’t want to lose more time or money making poor decisions. 

Thanks!