Amazon Online Mall Task Platform — I was deceived and scammed online work from home part-time job. I contacted the company through the phone number on the advert. It was a WhatsApp chat. She said she was Natasha, my part-time receptionist. She further explained that my work was to help online stores like Amazon, konga, jumia and the likes to increase sales by taking orders and in return, get a refund of my capital and a 20% commission. She said I will need to choose a package to start with and make a deposit to the account details that will be provided on the site. I started with the lowest package and deposited one thousand (1, 000) naira. I completed my tasks and applied for withdrawal but she said the financial department was under maintenance and it would take up to 48hours. She advised I continue working till the maintenance was over. She said since I already have two thousand naira there, I can deposit five hundred (500) naira to make up to the two thousand, five hundred naira required for the next stage but I told her I wanted to confirm that it's really paying first before I can continue working. After some days, I was able to withdraw one thousand, nine hundred naira because one hundred naira was deducted as their charge. She asked for the next package I was going to pay for but I told her my fears, I told her I was having double mind as there are lots of scams online but her reply made me change my mind, she said, “okay, I won't force you, let's just say you lost a good job opportunity ” I finally decided to continue. I made payment for the two thousand, five hundred naira package. She confirmed it and also told me she has applied for a senior tutor for me who will guide me through the next tasks and take me to earn more commissions. She sent me the telegram link of the senior tutor; https://t.me/Gbemisola125. This was on April 13. I chatted Gbemisola125 on telegram and she told me she has requested for tasks for me, 8tasks in total. She said they were high paying commission tasks and it can't be cancelled or abandoned halfway, and that if there's a difference in the price of goods I'll need to make up the money by recharging my account. I started but got stuck halfway because of fund, I chatted her but she said there's nothing she can do, I just have to make up the money. I managed to make it up with the help of a friend. I recharged six thousand naira. After two more tasks, the request came again to recharge fifteen thousand naira. I chatted her and she said I should recharge that it's the company's rule and cannot be changed. She assured me my money was safe with them. She sent me their authorization certificate from Amazon and screenshots of withdrawal records of other workers, this gave me confidence to continue. I again, recharged the fifteen thousand naira and continued. After two tasks again, the need to recharge again came, this time, it was thirty three thousand naira. This was already on the 14th as I couldn't complete it on the 13th due to fund. I was still trying to find a means to get the thirty three thousand naira before she told me the platform's recharge system was undergoing a temporary maintenance and so I should wait till it was over before I complete my tasks. By now, I've completed six tasks, had just two tasks left. And I can't withdraw till the 8 tasks are completed. I held on, waiting for the maintenance to be over but I never heard from her again, she has been offline since then. I tried reaching the one that referred Mr to her but she too has been offline as well. On 23rd April, I logged in to the site only to find out all the money I had there was gone, my account was reset, all records were cleared. My account now looks exactly as it was when I first registered, with just my registration bonus of three hundred and forty naira. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (9)