SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Tinder date scam avoided by me today.
DATE: 2023-10-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/17dzkwd/tinder_date_scam_avoided_by_me_today/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, i created a Tinder account few days back , got some matches in following days. 
Out of these matches one of them showed too much interest ( not typical of normal girls behaviour) .
I continued talking to her for few days and we agreed to meet today , by the she was the one who insisted on meeting, i normally try to chat for a few days on watsapp and telegram, to which repeatedly declined or changed the topic. 
Anyways I gave her my telegram id and contact number yesterday, to which she replied that she will contact me. So today at around 4:30pm she messaged me on Tinder and asked me if i could meet her in one hour,it felt strange at first because we agreed to make a plan first and then meet. 
I got a little bit concerned but still told her that i will be at her nearest metro station by 6:00 pm to which she agreed. 
So , now when i was just 2 stations away from reaching the destination she called and within few seconds she told me come to a mall and said that she has already reached there, i was a bit surprised at this behaviour of her coz earlier we decided that we will go to a place chosen by both of us, this thing made me question my decision to come and meet her and after i got out of the metro station i called her 2 times and asked her to come over and meet first then we will go to somewhere else to which she repeatedly declined. 
Also when i was talking to her i heard a man's voice who was talking to her and telling her something, earlier she said she was all alone. 
So connecting the dots i reached at conclusion that i should avoid meeting this girl.
Also , when i checked her number on watsapp it showed a business account and her DP and name was WAY different than that on Tinder .
 I Got back to the metro and reached Rajiv chowk, walked around CP for sometime drank a chilled shikanji and got back home walking and listening to music. 

I have seen some posts about online dating scam here in this sub and i think it helped me making me today.