SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: PG Owner takes money from 3 people for 2 sharing
DATE: 2022-11-13
SCORE: 53
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/yu6qe0/pg_owner_takes_money_from_3_people_for_2_sharing/

--- POST TEXT ---

BEWARE of Royal Inn PG, 4th cross, Prashant Layout, Whitefield!

I started living in this PG from December last year. 2 sharing @5000₹. In January PG owner increased the rent by 1K stating there was come confusion earlier. Just a lie. I was busy and didn't wanna argue so I agreed.

Maintenance was pathetic, food became worse. I decided to leave in April. But then I had to goto my hometown to undergo an operation asap.

I remember in the beginning PG owner said that she will take half rent if i didn't live there and just kept my belongings for a month. Now the time came and she demanded full rent. I wasn't in the condition to change PG, already admitted for more than 48 hours in a hospital at time. So I agreed. Thinking I will be back after a month.
Moreover she again increased rent. This time to 8K.
(PG owner is a liar, she also said I will get 500₹ if i brought someone in PG. When I did so she said that person has to stay atleast for 6 months. Very convenient to not mention such important detail)

Due to some complications post operation, I was adviced by doctor to not travel for months. So I left in April and came in November. Only to find out that room was being used by two people. Despite me giving full rent every month on time.

One person was moved as there were only two beds. But my bedsheet, pillow, towel, shoes, etc were gone. Everything that I kept out of cupboard was gone. It's a good thing that I took the cupboard's key with me.

The owner game me back the security deposit. But for 6 months I kept paying her rent for 2 sharing which was already being used by 2 people. She never told me that. Had she told so I would have asked my colleague to take my stuff to his PG and stop paying rent.

When I confronted her, she said that I was given the room when I came back so she won't pay back my rent. I shouted the word "fraud". Then her friend abused my mother. I wanted to slap them both but I somehow controlled themselves. Her friend said I wasn't respecting that women. To which I said a fraud is a fraud irrespective of gender. And I didn't use any abusive language towards them. I was furious. I left same day. And went to another PG for a day and then came back to my hometown.

Is this a normal thing in Bangalore? 
I was scared as well. They said they will throw my luggage after calling police. I don't know anyone in Bangalore. If this happened in my hometown I would have definitely complained to the police myself.