SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: NDRF closes rescue ops in Meghalaya mine blast. HC says failure to curb rat-hole mining ‘distressing’
AUTHOR: Nootan Sharma
DATE: 2026-02-09
URL: https://theprint.in/india/ndrf-closes-rescue-ops-in-meghalaya-mine-blast-hc-says-failure-to-curb-rat-hole-mining-distressing/2850520/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Shillong:
The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has closed its rescue operation at an illegal coal mine in the Thangsko region of Meghalaya’s East Jaintia Hills, where a massive blast Thursday killed 27 people and injured nine others.
“We searched both the wells and the interior areas but could not find any more bodies. We informed the administration and received permission to close the operation. We began wrapping up around 5 pm,” said H.P.S. Kandari, the NDRF commanding officer present at the site.
As of Monday, four bodies remained unidentified, while nine injured persons are being treated at the hospital.
Show Full Article
Police have arrested two individuals in connection with the incident.
The Meghalaya High Court expressed concern over the matter, calling it “distressing” and a failure of authorities to curb rampant illegal rat-hole coal mining.
A High Court bench of Justices H.S. Thangkhiew and W. Diengdoh said that accountability would be fixed and that an independent or central agency probe could be ordered if required.
Deputy Commissioner Manish Kumar and Superintendent of Police Vikash Kumar of East Jaintia Hills appeared before the court in connection with the 5 February blast at the illegal coal mine in the Thangsko area.
The court directed authorities to file a comprehensive report within 10 days, detailing steps taken across the district to identify and shut illegal mining sites, seize mining equipment, and arrest those involved.
“The report is distressing and reflects dereliction in the discharge of duties by the authorities concerned,” the court observed, adding that further orders could be passed for instituting a proper investigation or inquiry, including by an independent or central agency, if required.
“The high court had sought compliance, and we were called for a personal appearance in that connection,” an official told ThePrint. “As the matter is sub judice, we cannot say much at this stage. We will do whatever is required as per law.”
According to the superintendent of police, search, rescue and investigation were continuing simultaneously, and no fresh recovery of bodies was made Sunday or Monday.
The SP said with arrests already made in the case, “the investigation is moving in the right direction, and I am sure it will be taken to its logical conclusion”.
(Edited by Madhurita Goswami)
Also Read:
No help, no money: Struggling kin of Meghalaya victims say ‘cops, politicians knew about’ rat-hole mine