SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: How to add more sections to an FIR? also How to remove my name from an FIR?
DATE: 2025-01-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1hsdt9j/how_to_add_more_sections_to_an_fir_also_how_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

A group of persons took control over a piece of land owned by me. When I went there, I took control of it back by removing the posts with their name on it (they did this to assert their ownership there) and constructing a temp house in it.

They then filed a police complaint, later converted to an FIR with sections in it including those of organized crime, cheating, etc.

They then proceeded to destroy my house I constructed in my property. 

I then filed a police complaint including details of confrontation with them (while I was constructing on my property) and their subsequent destruction of property, including the theft of the same destructed property (this was done by them to show an absence of my control over my land). I also discovered that they made an agreement to sell off my land with a third party (not yet sold), the details of which was also mentioned in the complaint.

After many days and frequent visits to the PS, an FIR was finally registered. But, it only included sections of mischief, criminal intimidation and theft. It did not include the powerful sections of organized crime, cheating, cheating through personation and that of house trespassing. 

I sent a letter by post to the officer in charge of the PS for now seeking revisions to the FIR.

I need advice about how I should approach this? Does writing a letter to the OC solve the issue of revision to the FIR? Should I also write one to the SP? or should I do one to the Magistrate of the area? One info I got online was FIRs are transferred to the magistrate once registered, and can only be changed with their involvement; and the police have no control over it? Please shed light on this. 

Also I need advice on how I go about removing my name from the fir filed by the opposite party? it is a false case. I have already approached the civil way to ascertain the ownership of the land. In the meantime, I want to resolve the criminal matter too. Please give sound legal advice, including all available options, and what way should I go to get maximum results in the minimalist of efforts?