SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Uninformed rescheduling of flight 6 hours before departure.
DATE: 2024-12-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1h6daxt/uninformed_rescheduling_of_flight_6_hours_before/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi my lawyer friends, recently i went on a trip to Vietnam from India, and my biggest mistake was to book Vietjet. My flight from New Delhi to DaNang was scheduled on 28th November at 00:05 hours. It was supposed to be a layover flight with ho chi minh city as halt. I checked vietjet website for web checkin on 27th november everything was good. On 28th i booked train from chandigarh (my home) to delhi and around 6:30 pm (less than 6 hours before flight) i checked my first flight was shifted to 30th while second flight was still flying on 28th. I called vietjet no one picked. I called Agoda (through which i booked), they got back to me in 30 mins saying its some fault in vietjet website and that i can go ahead with my travel (i have this email proof). By this time there is no communication about flight change to me from Agoda or vietjet. Shortly after around 6:40 pm they sent mail about flight change in which first flight was rescheduled to 30th and second was on 28th. I did not see this one because i was travelling from delhi railway station to airport.
So i go to the airport and at the counter they denied boarding to me. They said they had to downsize the aircraft and hence they rescheduled 90-100 passengers randomly to fly on 30th. The person named *Nagesh* who didnt tell his last name said he is the manager of vietjet there and reassured all of us that we will be refunded and compensated. We should have realised its a scam when Nagesh started referring to Vietjet as third entity (he was saying something like this is their fault, my question was arent you their representative, anyways). So we went to vietnam airlines they had no flight, vietjet had after 2 days, air asia said they might have some no shows. Since we were losing our trip days and we had booked hotels, tours and had taken holidays from office we asked air Asia to help us. I also had travel insurance from Bajaj Allianz so i was convinced refund will come. Taking advantage of the situation they sold each no shows ticket at 36000 to us. So now i have paid 50000 inr for flight to vietnam.
I mailed 3 entities for help:
1) Agoda: they said they cant do anything and can ask airlines. Then follow up mail said vietjet refused to refund and even if they do i should be prepared to get a voucher.
2) Vietjet: That guy Nagesh gave us a custom email address for this case (some number @ vietjetair.com). No one replied here.
3) Bajaj Allianz: no reply from them.

Is there anyone who can guide me to the next steps. Is there no rule, law, ministry that protects us customers from exploitation of these companies. 

Would be grateful for a reply,
Thanks.