SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Help regarding financial/job fraud
DATE: 2021-05-30
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/nnuimd/help_regarding_financialjob_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is regarding a financial fraud online. So my younger brother just graduated recently from engineering. He started job hunting online on different platforms like linkedin and naukri dot com. He was contacted by a middle man impersonating as recruited and was offered a job in hdfc bank via a email letter. And they even conducted an "interview" over phone without any video. After all the procedure my brother was confirmed for the job and was asked to pay up 25 thousand rupees for the training and recruitment procedure which my stupid brother paid up without informing any of our family members. Then when he informed us, we enquired into the offer and found that it's all fake. And the email that my brother recieved was from a fake id , it ended with carrersnaukri.com where as all naukri dot com emails end with naukri.com . My brother was too stupid to see all these clues and paid the money blindly. 

Now comes the funny and sad part. When he contacted those people that he's not interested in the offer and would like to get refund for that money. At first they told they will give it back , no isuues, but to compete the "procedure" such as bond and contract he has to pay again 35 thousand, which will be refunded along with the original amount. My stupid brother again transferred the money again without asking any of us. I know it sounds too stupid to be true, but trust me and please help. Now we have already paid them 60k and still they are not done any rufund, no surprises, they are asking us to deposit 25k more to complete the procedure of refund. I know they are just extorting as much money as they can from us, and aren't in any mood to refund any money.

Now my humble request to you is please guide us what to do next. What are our legal options. We have all the emails and records of money transfer and phone recordings of that scammer. Should we file complaint in cyber crime cell? If yes, do we need lawyer for this. Also anyone with any past experience with cyber cell, is it really worth it? Will they help or they willl also try to extort money from us? We lost 60 thousand rupees. Please help us.