SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I Almost Fell for It
DATE: 2020-01-16
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/epas7o/i_almost_fell_for_it/

--- POST TEXT ---

Short backstory: being poor sucks, and means we have to sometimes pay bills a month or two late. It's actually been workable, if not ideal, but has sometimes lead to nerve wracking moments. Case in point: We paid our November and half of December bill for PGE a couple weeks ago, but still had the remainder of December due.

So, about an hour ago, I got a call that started with an automated voice saying, " You are in danger of having your power disconnected due to unpaid bills. To be connected to the PGE disconnect department, press 1." 

I pressed 1, and sat on hold for a minute before being transferred to someone with a foreign accent (connection wasn't great, but could have either been Indian or Bahamian), who told me there was someone on the way to shut my power down in the next 45 minutes. I asked if they could put a 48 hour delay so I could talk with my wife and decide where the funds were going to come from. He put me on hold so he could "talk with his manager."

Two minutes later, he came back on and told me I needed to talk to the billing department. So, I had him transfer me, then I went to the PGE website and just used my credit card to do the online payment while I was on hold. 

Got to "billing", and told them I'd paid online (my bill was $245). Guy tells me that it will take 6-12 hours to process, and they need the payment of $445 in full now, otherwise someone was on their way to shut my power down in 45 minutes (I'd been on the phone for about half an hour at this point, but they were still 45 minutes away). I was looking directly at my billing page at this point, and it said $245, so I asked about the discrepancy and was told that my last payment had been refunded combined with excessive late fees. Thankfully, they had many local locations I could go to pay this.

" Fine," I said, " Where's your nearest office?" Thinking I could maybe plead with an actual human to not shut my power off. 

" Oh, there are many places you can make this payment. Are you near a Safeway or 7-Eleven?" That was the specific moment I KNEW this was a scam, and they were about to request a money order or payment via temp credit card. 

" This whole thing feels sketchy, so I'm going to call PGE directly. Have a nice day. " And I hung up. 

Called PGE immediately, and, sure enough, scam (they would apparent give more warning than 45 minutes). 

If they hadn't asked for so much, or made it sound like I only had 45 minutes, they may very well have gotten me. Be careful, people.