SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Flipkart and Paytm wallet Scam
DATE: 2023-08-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1609hqm/flipkart_and_paytm_wallet_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I faced a fraudulent activity with the company Flipkart on 14th August

The team called me on 21st August and informed me that actions will be taken in 24 hours but there is 0 response from the flipkart team. The same scammers are still using the platform to initiate such scams.

The details are as follows :
Context : 
1) Victim received a video call from the suspect explaining the procedure to share the screen via video call.
2) Scammer sent an OTP to victim's mobile phone and linked the victim's PAYTM wallet to scammer's Flipkart ID.
3) Scammer purchased an item worth 12,999 INR on Flipkart using Victim's paytm wallet.

4) Victim contacted the Merchant (Flipkart) after 1 hour of payment deduction to stop the order from being processed with the details of the transaction.
5)Flipkart was unable to stop the order from being processed due to the delay in taking required actions.
6)The item was delivered by Flipkart to the Scammer.
7) Paytm guaranteed me a refund on 14th August but the next day, they stated that they cannot refund the amount as the item is delivered.

Issues :
1) Flipkart has blacklisted the flipkart account but the suspect only requires a new email ID to start a new flipkart account and continue the scam to other victims.
2) Flipkart has evidence of the suspect (phone number, address &amp; all other details related to delivery)but is not taking any actions against the scammer.
They even have the IMEI number of the phone scammer ordered via their Flipkart account.
3) Flipkart did not take any action to stop the order from being delivered.

Requesting India's support regarding the raised concern.
Flipkart has plenty of evidence for further investigation regarding the issue.

The scale of the fraudulent activity seems very large and can be tracked with the evidence available with Flipkart.

Any solution or compensation from Flipkart will be really helpful as I am a working student supporting my family.
Please reach out to me for any details regarding the same.

Any retweets to Flipkart, Kitboga , ScammerPayback and Walmart will be really helpful. : https://twitter.com/Stonedsarcasm/status/1691237700077334529?s=20