SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: RSS plans to expand ‘shakhas’, focus on public outreach campaigns to mark centenary year
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-13
URL: https://theprint.in/india/rss-plans-to-expand-shakhas-focus-on-public-outreach-campaigns-to-mark-centenary-year/2878220/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chandigarh, Mar 13 (PTI) Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Joint General Secretary C R Mukund on Friday said special emphasis is being placed on expansion of ‘shakhas’ and engagement of society through public outreach programmes to mark the organisation’s centenary year.
In Kerala, over 55,000 Muslim and 54,000 Christian homes were covered under the public outreach initiative, he said while addressing a three-day meet of the RSS’ top decision-making body — Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS) — in Haryana’s Samalkha.
RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale inaugurated the meet.
Show Full Article
As this year marks the centenary of the right-wing organisation, the meeting will include detailed discussions on major programmes and campaigns organised as part of the celebrations. These include ‘grihasampark’ (mass contact programme), Hindu Sammelan, youth conferences, gatherings of prominent citizens and social harmony meetings.
In his address, Mukund talked about the RSS’ ‘panch parivartan’ initiative, which focuses on social harmony, preservation of family values, environmental protection, selfhood and self-reliance, and adherence to legal, civic, and constitutional duties.
The RSS has reached out to more than 10 crore homes under “grihasampark”, he said, adding that more than 3 lakh villages have been covered and the organisation is also seeing a positive impact in society of “sabbhav gosti” and the “pramukh nagrik gostis”.
In Kerala, RSS reached out to several households including Muslims, Christians and also those belonging to individuals with communist leanings.
We received a warm welcome everywhere we went. Our ‘swayamsevaks’ reached out to 55,000 Muslim and 54,000 Christian homes, Mukund said, adding that the Sangh also reached tribal regions through its public outreach initiative.
Elaborating on the Sangh’s plan of action to mark its centenary year, Mukund said there are two main dimensions to various initiatives — organisational growth, focused on expansion of ‘shakhas’, and concerted effort to engage with society, foster harmony within it, and mobilize all the virtuous forces of the community to dedicate themselves to the work of social transformation, and public awakening.
Hindu Sammelans have been held at more than 36,000 places in the country and more are going to take place including urban, rural areas and remote corners, Mukund said.
The Sangh’s ongoing endeavour involves engaging prominent citizens across various localities to serve as key community leaders, he added.
BJP chief Nitin Nabin and presidents and other senior functionaries of its 32 sister organisations, among others, will attend the key three-day meet.
To foster harmony within society, we are collaborating at the block level with local community leaders, heads of spiritual organisations, and heads of religious centres, Mukund said.
“Together, we aim to deliberate upon and implement positive initiatives that bring about necessary social reforms. Specifically, the Sangh has identified five transformations. Five key themes representing the changes currently desired within society,” he said.
On the Naxal-affected regions, the Sangh said that the situation is gradually returning to normal due to the government’s efforts Mukund said political stability is coming in Manipur. Moreover, the ongoing effort wherein individuals from all communities and castes, along with prominent figures, come together to deliberate collectively, is yielding results, an endeavour in which the Sangh, too, has a role.
He added that a difficult situation arose in Bangladesh, one that persists to this day. Therefore, the Sangh urges the government there to undertake whatever efforts are necessary to safeguard the rights and interests of Hindus.
Asked about the West Asia conflict, he said the crisis should end soon, this is what we and the Indian society believe.
Sunil Ambekar RSS’ Akhil Bharatiya Prachar Pramukh said this year marks the centenary year of the Sangh.
Ambekar on Wednesday said the three-day meeting will review the activities of the Sangh during 2025-26 and present reports on significant initiatives carried out across various regions.
The meeting is being attended by RSS senior office-bearers, along with members of the national executive body. A total of 1,487 ‘karyakartas’ will participate, including elected representatives and key office-bearers from various parts.
In addition, presidents, general secretaries, and organising secretaries of 32 affiliated organisations will also be present. PTI SUN VSD NB NB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.