SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: [URGENT] Victim of JOB Fraud of INR 32200, Complete details in Post.
DATE: 2022-09-28
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/xppy3a/urgent_victim_of_job_fraud_of_inr_32200_complete/

--- POST TEXT ---

Namaskar r/LegalAdviceIndia, I'm from Gujarat and my sister was scammed out of INR 32200 on pretext of her getting a job in a reputed company in Bangalore.

Might be a long post, TL:DR at bottom.

25th September

My sister got an email on 25th September from [**info@careernaukri.com**](mailto:info@careernaukri.com) from a company called Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Bangalore that she is selected for the interview and has to pay a refundable security deposit of INR 12750 that'll be refunded back to her after the interview. 

I said there's no way a company is asking this much amount from a fresher and is most likely fraud, but my dad said that some companies do this as they send flight tickets. Here's the pdf that was attached with the mail. I asked my sister to call both Allergan Pharmaceuticals and [Naukri.com](https://Naukri.com) to confirm this the next day. Regardless I sent a mail to [naukri.com](https://naukri.com) inquiring about the email. (They replied within a day, but unfortunately we had lost the money by then). 

26th September around 12 PM

My sister called the number mentioned in the email instead, let's say XYZ picked up the call ( not sure if I can mention the name, most likely an alias). He spoke very good English and took telephonic interview.( Apparently he sounded very knowledgeable, had knowledge about the field). He asked my sister to wait for 10 minutes and he called again after some time saying that she is selected for the job He then asked my sister to deposit INR 12750 within 15 minutes as confirmation as she'll have to appear in Bangalore for verification . He then gave another number of let's say ABC, ABC will guide my sister through the follow-up procedures. 

Around 2 PM

ABC then asks my sister to deposit another INR 19450 for a 2 week training which will be refunded after the training. Asks for various documents including Aadhar card and driving license, a full photo, passport size photo etc.

I was still in college at that time, my sister after making the payments called me as she thought something was fishy.

After I got home, I asked my sister to call ABC and ask for progress of the confirmation letter, he said confirmation letter will be sent by 4 PM and it did arrive, except it asked for another INR 28500 for documents verification and INR 10000 to open salary account. Also it had the joining date as August 25th, suggesting they doing this fraud since a couple of months.

Around 4:30ish

Meanwhile I got an email from [naukri.com](https://naukri.com) confirming that the email is indeed fake. We tried to stall time and ask for withdrawal saying we can't afford another 40k ( we really can't lmao even 30k is too much). He said I'll call you back within 15 minutes. Around 5 PM he calls and says as you are withdrawing the job from your side you are supposed to pay 28%gst of 32200 and then only he can initiate the refund (wtf lol). Mf was asking to pay another 9k for the money we'll never get back. We postponed him and said that It'll take a couple of days to arrange the money.

Things I have :-

2 numbers(WhatsApp) with fake names probably,

Bank Account Number ( Bank account is still active ).

Recording of calls with ABC.

I called the cybercrime department at 5:40 and registered a complaint, around 30 minutes later cybercrime Gujarat whatsapped me asking for transaction details and then asked me to fill the rest myself(wow).

I submitted WhatsApp chats, emails, and transactions in my complaint as evidence on 26th September itself around 9PM. My question is, am I supposed to do anything else? Should I call them everyday asking for status? Did anyone here had an experience where they got their money back after complaining to CyberPolice?.

&amp;#x200B;

TL:DR :- Lost 32200 INR in hopes of getting a job, got scammed, registered a complaint with cyberpolice within 24 hours. the scammers have not blocked us as they still think they gonna get more money. Need to know if there's something else I can do. Should I make a Separate complaint for teh documents? Haven't contacted the bank yet, should we contact the bank?

Any advice is appreciated.