SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Honey trapped and it had gone for 5 years. False promises and mental torture. Please help.
DATE: 2024-03-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1b819ff/honey_trapped_and_it_had_gone_for_5_years_false/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello I am 27 male. Please read my thing

I am from Asia and I met a girl from Malaysia 37 at the time. Her name is Stephanie anak egal. Who put immense pressure on me through suicide. Drinking and trauma dumping. Her sister in law abused me and cursed me. Her name is Elaine qang and I have messages to prove my claim. 

Stephanie now had been harassing me for money. She had already took so much money for me. Which I have bank statements and other things about I will link the picture of her text to me and her face. She lives in singapore now. Both her kids are studying in Germany while she made me sit on the sideline and took no responsibility for her actions. What I mean to say is that she put so much pressure and gasliting and manipulated me to the point I felt like I needed to sit with her. 

Which I would do. I didn't ignore her for one second fearing she might kill herself. She would often threaten me with self harm and did do it too. She would threaten me saying she'd whore for money. She used to sell her body and it destroyed her so in trying to save her I begged her to stop and now you can understand.

When it all stopped she would abuse me and curse me. When she felt like it she would want me to have sex with her. She would use me. Emotionally manipulate me. I am literally jobless, because of her and her kids have cursed me too. Please there is no justice for me and I am suffering from depression and anxiety all day. I am penny less and living with my mother who is very very old and struggling. 

I cannot file a case too. She lives in singapore and works and her husband is some rich guy. From a influential family. I am really lost and I have no one. Please stay safe from people like her and sister in law who also tried to seduce me. Then she manipulated me and abused me too. She is the daughter of ceasok qang who are living comfortably in some beach place. Anak egal also has a home while I am living on rent.