SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: Rant about fake jobs for freshers
DATE: 2023-08-01
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/15fgum0/rant_about_fake_jobs_for_freshers/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone,

Writing this as I am feeling angry and sad at the same time, hence wanted to vent it out.
So my brother is BE electronics last year pass out. He has been looking out for job since last year as a dev or a tester but he is not getting any opportunity. Atos finalized him but they are just postponing the hiring process.
He called me today as we don’t stay together saying that he went for an interview for data entry job and they took 2k from him for bank verification process and all.
First of all, he was trying to become a developer and since he is not getting any job he got ready to take data entry job - this broke my heart because we are discussing about him becoming a dev since last year and he took a couple of courses for this as well. Not dissing people who do data entry, it’s just that he knew what he wanted to do but he is not getting an opportunity for the same.
Secondly, I don’t understand how he paid some random company money. He has never done this before. He has always consulted me when in doubts and we have avoided such situations. He is well aware of such things. So when I heard this, I was feeling very low at the fact that he got so desperate that when he saw a ray of hope that someone is giving him job that he didn’t think much about it and paid him. My brother even asked before going whether there is any fee; they said no and that’s why he went there. This is at Ghansoli and after that he had a second interview at Andheri but they also asked him for money so he left. 
For him 2k is a big amount as he is not earning and these guys are looting people in name of jobs. I’m just glad now that it was only 2k and not much. This will be a lesson to him and it will save himself from future frauds.
Also, I called these guys who work at the “consultancy”, one is Harsh, he is saying that I will give him the job, ask him to clear the test of typing speed for 30 wph at 99% accuracy and he will get it. There are so many negative reviews on google as well. They are sending people messages in name of Wipro, there is no Wipro involved obviously. And changing narrative on the phone saying I don’t understand why the other guy - Ashish said Wipro and then after 5 mins Harsh is saying that it is Wipro only. They have given some id to send documents - datasomething@gmail.com. I pointed that too and then Harsh is saying that Ashish must have given his personal email id, you take down his official which was apparently ashish@wipro.in like I’m gonna fall for this. Apart from all this, this guy Harsh was saying that you don’t talk to me like this, I’m talking with respect to you.
Just so frustrated that these things are happening openly and you cannot even report them. Please let me know if there is a way to report them. I’m aware the police is not going to do anything in such case. On the other hand, I also understand that it is not worth the hassle.

Thank you for listening 🙏