SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam I faced
DATE: 2022-06-05
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/v5blq9/scam_i_faced/

--- POST TEXT ---

I wish I had come to know abt this sort of scam earlier, I could have saved my 45,000 rs. What happened was we put up our house for rent on olx, qukr and other websites as we were shifting out (for an advance amount of 45,000 Rs around $400), a so-called Army official reached out to us claiming that he was in Delhi with his family and was shifting to Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram as he got posted to the closest Army camp near our house which we put out for rent. So as a natural tendency of every individual and considering the fact, how hard shifting from one place to another could be, we offered a helping hand and asked for his credentials, which he sent to us through WhatsApp without any hesitation with the name of a Martyr army official, Sachin Sharma and some pictures of the Sachin Sharma and a photo of women with her two children which is supposably someone else because Sepoy Sachin Sharma was 19 year old when he sacrificed himself for the country(which we were not aware of). So due to respect towards an army official we were happy for the further procedure as he seemed pretty of a reliable person to rent out the house in safe hands, which turned out to be a big mesh when he asked us for 45,000rs (which we were asking as an advance), saying that his captain would pay us back through some machine crap he was talking about and after talking to his captain my dad as a defence official got convinced finely by the captain even though he sounded a bit off language’ ishh. So like a normal person talking to a higher up, my Dad with an absolute surety sent money to the captain.

It was all good and fine as he said he will be sending money back within 24hrs, but sooner did we know he was a scammer as I saw some of you talking about the scam online and as I got to know about the scams I started researching about the sepoy Sachin Sharma where I got to see his Adhar card, canteen card and every single credential he gave us which not only made us pretty amazed but also sophisticated, because of our foolish mistake we made on some spooky bond we made with the so-called Army official.

It’s not about the money we lost or the foolishness we did. It is how pathetic and utterly someone can go to use a martyr soldier’s credential who sacrificed his life for the goodness of these scammers who are cheating others for their little cheap thrills.

People don’t tend to know about the lower rank soldiers who sacrificed life as much as officers which is the main reason they are using the credentials of lower-ranked Army officials, even though they have played an important role in the war and struggles of India, there can be multiple movies that can be made of Jawans and others who left their family and children to serve the nation for our peaceful wellbeing, it’s not only the officer who sacrificed their lives for the country, I am not saying they did not but it is not fair to avoid these lower ranks too.

Please be aware of these scams and don't fall into these traps, report as much as you can and please take a positive initiative to make our country a strong and peaceful nation

Points to take care of,

1. Never rent a house before seeing them
2. always search for an Adhar card online (its always available on google images if it is a popular scam)
3. pls don't scan a random QR code or send OTP
4. Never send money in a huge amount to an unknown person
5. be aware, that most of the defence officials are provided with (quarters, so pls don't rent any of them without seeing in personal)

This was the Adhar card that was attached to it, i will not be showing the family pictures that were sent to as as we are not sure about it.

📷

Thankyou