SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Airtel Fibre Scam. They know our address &amp; have my Adhar card. They already took payment and are demanding more now.

DATE: 2024-09-21
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1flkqdp/airtel_fibre_scam_they_know_our_address_have_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Should we go to the police before they hurt her? They know where she lives &amp; have her adhar card photo. (asked it for KYC at the time of booking) 
 
TLDR : My (22M) gf (20F) applied for Airtel Fibre. 1st guy books her connection by talking on phone but then stalls her for 10 days. She applies again using 2nd phone no. Within a day 5 guys come to her PG, connect the wires &amp; sets up her router, take payment and went away. 1 day later 1st guy comes with 2 more goons and demands her payment, claiming he doesn't know those who she paid before. (Clearly they know each other and it's a scam) 
She stayed inside fearing they might hurt her, coz they were hitting &amp; shaking the steel gates with force. She calls them (with me in conference) and that's where a 2 hour of argument went. I argued them to give us a refund of previous payment then we will do his payment since he claims that the previous man wasn't his own. He agreed after a long &amp; heated argument. But his fellows have been calling her with different numbers. 
 
Data we have : 
Name of those Men as given by the 1st guy on call : 
(1st guy (could have given his fake name), Employee of Airtel) 
(one of 5 men who came to setup router, claims himself to be a Trainee, fake name is possible) 
(2nd guy's name according to 1st guy, who booked the 2nd connection) 
 (Heard this name on their call when referring to each other, could be a real name) 
 
Had to remove names as my post was getting banned because of that 
 
Important Points : 
 
1. We have all the call recordings, screenshots of his wa chats &amp; our MyAirtel App status. 
2. The wifi is working and it is registered using 1stguy phone no. In MyAirtel App it can be seen that recharge of 6 months is indeed done, when she logins using 1st phone no. (More about this later) 
 
3. The 1st guy is the one who has done the booking and was NOT present when his 5 men (2 wearing airtel tshirt, 3 not) came to set up the connection. 
 
4. The 2nd guy who came to do the connection. I'm suspecting he'll stay underground during this whole process since he's the one who took the money that wasn't his, it was supposed to be paid by us (1st guy). 
 
5. The MyAirtel App, when my gf logins from 1st phone no. : 
 
5a. (1st account) : "My Services" section wasn't showing anything for 1-2 days after they setup her wifi (which started working immediately even when our app showed nothing). So I'm suspecting he registered a wifi setup into HIS OWN NAME &amp; account, then transferred it to her name after one day of the setup. Since she got the wifi password from him through WA text. 
Fact : Wifi passwords can be seen or changed from MyAirtel App only from the account on which it is registered. 
 
5b. (2nd account) : 
When the router was being setup, "My Services" section showed that a request was raised and showed a payment due of 1k before they could start the setup. Then after setup it showed a payment of Rs. 1400/- Both of which she paid to them (2nd guy) on the QR which he showed to her (I'm suspecting it's his personal gpay) on the day of wifi setup. 
 
6. 2nd guy 
 
The Complete Story : 
 
My gf applied for Airtel Fibre Wifi on 2nd Sept. Got a call from Airtel Employee, who proceeds to pay her Rs. 3k bill (installation + 6month recharge) from his own pocket to book her fibre connection. (That's first red flag) 
2nd red flag is when he started communicating through texts. (no one texted me when I applied for wifi) 
 
Then stalls her for 10 days saying it will be done within 1-2 days. She texts him that she will be moving forward with another booking if he doesn't do it in 2 days. 
 
She then applies again on 11 sept. using her 2nd phone no. and Within 1 day, 5 guys (only 2 of them wearing Airtel Shirt) came and did the connection. 
They first showed her that she needs to pay Rs. 1k (also shown in the app in her 2nd acnt) before they start the process. She paid. They connected the wire from the box in Electric Pole and setup the connection with her router. 
They then ask for Rs. 1400 (again also shown in the app). She pays them. Both of the payment went to the QR that the guy showed (Clearly his personal Gpay) 
 
During this the 1st guy texts her saying that the connection that is happening is His(1st guy's connection). We have a screenshot of him saying that this is his connection in the happening. 
 
He leaves. Then after some time her myAirtel app starts showing nothing. The Request section was cleared out and there was nothing on the App in 2nd acnt. She got the wifi password through WhatsApp. 
 
I know there are lots of red flags clearly showing how shady this is. And she shouldn't have let all of this slide, this is very unintelligent on her part, I admit. But let's not shame her more on this, she's already going through a lot and is trying to improve on lots of aspect. 
It's only when I got to know about this 1-2 days after the router setup. That's when I asked her everything and investigated to come to these conclusions that a scam has been happening and she was about to be the newest victim of it. 
 
2 days after the connection, 3 men (1st guy &amp; 2 others) were standing on her gates and demanded payment. She didn't go out there since they looked like goons &amp; were already shaking the steel gates which scared her. She calls me, I live in different city. But I tell her to calm down &amp; let them knock. Then her landlord lady went to the gates and they shouted on her. She came to her room and shouted on my gf. They didn't come in though since it's a girl PG. 
 
Then she called the 1st guy with me on conference. And he was on full rage mode (since it's a young girl who he thinks is easy to scam) demanding money. I first thought I'd just listen in but he just wouldn't let her speak so I had to start shouting on him as well, so that he doesn't overpower her (she's not used to shouting). His attitude stayed heated in the first 10 minutes then slowly as he saw that I'm just as loud and Very informed. I threatened to call the police stating that he's thrashing the gates &amp; abusing landlady &amp; us. 
 
He understood that shouting won't work and he's got to communicate. Then I started stating things very clearly. "You booked. You man came, did the job &amp; took the payment. Now you're again asking for already paid money." 
 
He tried to deviate me with all the bullshit excuses &amp; confusion of different bookings. All of which orchestrated by his crew of-course. But I didn't budge and stayed onto my version of Clear Understanding of Events, which is the truth. 
 
I then asked him to call the 2nd man here but clearly they made excuses. They then handed phone to some guy who tells he was there when the booking happened, but also says he's a trainee so that he can't be demanded money. I told Ali that you're no longer needed here you should go. We need to talk to the employee who booked the 2nd request &amp; took the money which apparently belongs to 1st guy 
 
They weren't giving out names of their fellows easily. So I could only extract a name . According to 1st guy, unknown name( not sure if its real name) made the 2nd booking. 
 
So in our conversation with1st guy. We are finding unknown person(who came for installation and received payment) And it's only when unknown person makes the full refund of previously paid Rs. 2400 to us. That's when we will pay 1st guy Rs. 3000 
 
1st guy keeps claiming that the refund will take time and it's in the hands of his superiors who are away to Indore or Bhopal or whatever. I demanded that his so called superiors must come back to address this case because our money &amp; his money is on the stake here and he can't be unavailable right after a big misunderstanding. So I told 1st guy to fetch his boss or whoever is in Bhopal/indore or to get unknown person here &amp; give me my Rs. 2400 back so that I could pay 1st guy his 3k. 
 
I also told him not to disturb us before the refund happens. He told us that he might need confirmation for cancellation of booking. On which I've agreed to attend his calls just once (for the cancellation of booking). 
 
We (us &amp; scammers) mutually agreed to this. And ended the call with understanding that it's only after our refund. We will pay him his money. 
 
 
However she's been getting some calls from his crewmates. I've told her to not pick unknown no.s for now. Even when we called one back it was switch off. 
 
I got a call 2 days ago (god knows where they got my number from, since she added me on conference, not them). An unknown man was politely begging for money that they gotta pay rents or so. I told them wrong no. &amp; cut it. 
 
Thanks for reading this far. Any &amp; All helpful advices are welcome.