SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How do I expose an NGO/charity organisation that is committing tax fraud?
DATE: 2022-05-25
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ux8huv/how_do_i_expose_an_ngocharity_organisation_that/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have been part of a religious organisation where I and many others contributed money for running an educational institution free of cost to extremely poor kids. I have been to this school myself and what I have seen is real. This school is dirt poor village and the kids walk several miles to make it. Their parents can barely meet their basic needs. The people running the school also have very large hearts and have given up their cushy jobs and life in the big city to do this. They are also living in terrible conditions. All this while me and everyone else was under the impression that the money earned by this organisation was almost completely spent in utilities and sponsoring this school. 

However it turned out that some people happened to see the accounts and the leaders of the organisation were taking humongous salaries while having all their expenses paid for (including housing, cars, chauffeurs, maids) and even indulging in international trips while those who run the school literally live in huts.

My heart is seriously broken. My parents and I have been supporting them since I was a little child. I earned ₹40k as scholarship money every year as a kid and I used it to fund them thinking that I was a lucky kid whose parents paid my fees and wanted to help kids who weren’t. My parents and other members have contributed way more.

I checked on NGO darpan and they fraudulently claim that they provide lodging for the students and that it is an orphanage which it is not. (They are now somehow off this website.) They do not reveal their accounts anywhere and I’m certain they’re committing tax fraud too. They are also supposed to open provident fund accounts for their employees which they haven’t. 

Is there a way to anonymously report them to authorities or expose them? (The organisation in Maharashtra while the school is in another state)