SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I fucked up. Somehow.
DATE: 2024-06-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1ddvvyg/i_fucked_up_somehow/

--- POST TEXT ---

I need some help to identify how I was scammed. 
This is partly to help me organize my thoughts, please tell me if this is the wrong sub.

The only record is that it was a "Telephone Banking payment."

I'm 19, my school fund or 9,925cad was pulled out today at 5:30pm 
My password is unique, not written down and unsaved on any of my gmails. 
My limits on both my debit and mastercard are 1-2k 
I have security questions and telephone banking access codes/pin/word written down in a notebook thats hidden in my room (no break-ins). 
Any hint of an indian accent on an unknown number, or any email remotely asking for anything is blocked on my number.

My mistake is not having 2FA on, because I thought I had it on (I have almost never accessed online banking outside my phone), and even then on only 1 personal laptop. My account is a student account. It's a full account however it's an upgraded youth account under my parents joint account. They have access to my money to deposit/withdraw/monitor, but I can't see or access theirs.

They aren't the most assertive and have been email scammed once, however the money was recovered and passwords changed for the affected account. 
The account was then "hacked" again, not to our fault. It was labelled "Misc Payment | PCF MD" and it was somebody accessing the account through another online bank somehow, and that bank then pulling the money out of our accounts. Again fully refunded. 
ALL accounts that time were effectively reset, new pins, cards, account numbers. My account at the time was still a youth and the current password was the password I changed to then. My parents have gotten much more scared of scams.

The funny thing is that 2 weeks ago my RBC mobile account wouldn't deposit my work check, so my mom did and deposited it to hers and transfered the money to mine. The check had my name and both my MOM and DAD are currently locked out of their respective accounts and the "Master" account is already under fraud investigation.

I check RBC mobile regularly, however we only caught it today because an RBC employee called my DADS number (not mine, and yes my number is connected) to tell him of the unusally large withdrawal.

Fuck RBC, I did nothing wrong.