SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Zomato Incident, Bangalore
DATE: 2021-03-14
SCORE: 69
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/m4twl3/zomato_incident_bangalore/

--- POST TEXT ---

Guys,

I hope all of you are doing well. For the first time it feels good that people are not reaching into conclusions just because the other gender is female , And are hearing the delivery Guys side of Story too. I am not being gender biased here. Just talking about current social media scenarios where usually the guy is always at fault until proven innocent . I am sure excluding this scenario there are other instances where women hasn't got the justice and I stand with them always. 

In past, we have seen lots of people's lives getting ruined because of Social media Justice. Anyone remembers Delhi Incident of Jasleen Kaur And Sarvjeet Singh?The poor chap lost everything because of fake allegations, but was proved innocent after so many years!

Disclaimer : I am not reaching here into any conclusions on who is right or who is wrong.
There are smart people on the side of law, who will take their due course, and maybe one day hopefully deliver some verdict which is the truth! So it is not my job, I am not even capable of that. 

My point is, I am here for a small change.

All of you know what a difficult life these delivery guys have, and they live under such small pay. 
I work in an IT company and wont call my self a good earner. But I know for damn sure that my life conditions are far more comfortable than those people working on field under the Bangalore sun and rain 9-12 hours a day.!! 
This truth keeps me humbled. And somewhere I empathize with them. 
I just wonder how difficult it is for someone to work 9-12 hours in bangalore traffic and deliver food or anything for that matter?? . God I am not strong enough to that. And I have respect for those, who can do it, day in and day out. And this thing hurts the most when u realize most of them are not working it because it's their passion. But it's the only livelihood option they have. The only option, for them or their family! 

Hence I ask for a help. I don't want anything from you Guys. Just a simple Suggestion from my side. 

If we realize and introspect without any biases, how hard people works. (whom the white collar working class usually looks down) Maybe its the BMTC Bus conductor, the cleaning ammas, the waste managing bhayyas, the delivery guys, or the street side food stall guys hustling for a daily livelihood,or any blue collar working guys and girls. We will gain a respect for them.and will be thankful to them for the contributions they are doing for the society. Imagine yourselves in their shoes. You can't ? Right!! Neither can I. But what can I do is contribute a small portion of my earnings to anybody, who is finding it difficult to getby during this challenging times. 

Hence can anyone give me the contact number of the Guy who is caught in this fiasco? Kindly DM, and don't make it public. 

I respect the law and will abide by its terms. But I also want to support him and his family during this tough times. As an outsider living in bangalore, I know how difficult it is to survive here without money. 

But Bangalore has given me a lot. And I am thankful for it. I just want to contribute whatever small amount I can for his family to pass this rough phase!