SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need advice
DATE: 2023-05-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/13kct7g/need_advice/

--- POST TEXT ---

I need an advice on situation my university has put me through over the last month. I''ll give a background of the facts on 21st November 2021 I met with an accident and had admitted to hospital had a short term memory loss due to head injuries and on that exact date (21/11) my online end semester exams were schedule due to the accident I could not appear for the exams and later after 1 week when I got discharge from hospital I told my mom to mail regarding the same to my university. after which they replied take care and they will see to it what shall be done in future, later in the month of January 2022 1st week my exam were schedule in online mode which I did not appeared for as my mental health was not up to the mark and was on SSRI medication and also was healing physically too as the wounds were too serious and had taken 2 and 1/2 half month to recover, though I did not informed the college regarding my condition. later in the month of June 2022 our college started to function in physical mode I had repeatedly asked them regarding the procedure to clear my pending exams all they said was that they will let me know, also in when our college reopened in June exams of that semester were conducted in an online mode as our university motto was to go paperless.

later on in the next semester there were clashes between the academic body and VC to conduct exam in pen and paper mode and prior too our mid semester of the current semester we students were informed about their decision that exams will be conducted in physical mode and so it was done. 

later in the month of march 2023 on 23rd march they sent me a mail that if I don't clear my past year exams (1st year) I wont be promoted to 3rd year and all the papers 9 papers were remaining I will have to appear in pen and paper mode which will be scheduled from 28th of march (informed to appear for all of them in a short notice of 5 days) and I made me bound to appear for the exam so I did which were till 7th of April and later in last week of April my current semester end semester exams was also schedule from 24th to 29th of April. 

I appeared for all the 14 exams and in mid April submitted 18 projects and 18 vivia's of previous year and of current semester. 

As the results were out I passed all the exams of 1st year though failed in 2 papers of current semester even after putting my best efforts, I had been sleeping hardly 2-3 hrs. a day for whole April of which I had to face medical consequences (severe dehydration and dysentery) due to which I missed a paper of the current semester and in result they declare me failed in that subject mentally I was totally drained by the situation I was facing and the treatment received from my college prof. regarding to have solution to let me appear in online mode for previous years exams and all the reason they gave that it was contingency policy and they cannot help me out and also while appearing for the end semester exams of current semester i asked them to be a little lenient while evaluating my marks. I was scared to death while appearing for previous year paper as I had not much knowledge of what was taught as it was in online mode and almost 17 month were passed since then so I all this time I was in a panicky situation and told my parents about all this scenario and busted out crying on the mid-night of 28th(birthday night it was) as all I did in last 5 days before 28th march was to seek help from my faculties though none received as stated above. All this time my parents were pretty much worried about me and kept calling the whole night of 28th and were wide awake to hear a response from me also my dad had a brain stroke in 2022 and his health condition has been deteriorating since then and it was not advised for him to stay awake whole night. Also later when exams were over the controller of examination section who is the senior most faculty in our college asked me to call my dad and over the convo said that sorry I have harassed your son and said how he is impressed by me even I don't know what were his intentions over the phone call. 

Also meanwhile the 5th years of our college were asked to appear in online mode of the exam schedule for their last and current semester so that their CGPA does not get affected while whole university students appeared in pen and paper mode. 

I am a student of BA LLB(HONS.) taking my degree from NLU' Nagpur all I want to know can I file a case against my college in regard of mismanagement and harassment also claim punitive damages.