SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Domestic Violence and Mental Harassment For My Sister, Please Help.
DATE: 2022-08-25
SCORE: 63
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/wxbcpv/domestic_violence_and_mental_harassment_for_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

We are Hindu Family from rural Telangana, close to Karimnagar. My sister got married 20 months ago(1 year 8 months), no kids, getting harassed by his husband mentally and physically ( he beat her 3 times (no proof) ) and they are harassing her to sell the gold (no proof) which we kept for my sister (12 tolas). Every time they create an issue and bring up a quarrel to sell the gold of my sister. This mental harassments regarding to sell gold has been going on for months (7 to 8 months) .

We have a couple of voice recordings where he angrily admitted using vulgar words that he wants to get divorce and will throw away money at my sister (10 lakh dowry + 10 lakhs extra) to get rid of my sister and to settle the matter with elders and also warned that he will kill her if she stays at his house.

He might have voice recordings of my sister when they have fought, as far I know whatever my sister said is for the good like pushing him to work, making things understand which he misunderstood.

He has anger issues, lies through his teeth, tears clothes, punches walls, acts like a kid, mentally harass my sister for even small things and doesn't work at all, not even capable of paying rent of 4000 and in turn harasses her both mentally and physically. We are worried that if we send my sister to him, he might do physical assault leading to disabling/killing.

My sister has episodes of depression, anxiety, no sleep and psychosis which happened three times before marriage (we didn't inform them she has this). For which she used to take medications for couple of months and everything used to come back to normal as usual and she would stop taking them. This condition gets triggered by harassments when she feels stressed and tensed and fears people. which is exactly what he is doing continuously after getting married, now we are worried that he might not change and keep on mentally harassing her even if we send my sister to their house.

Want legal advice from lawyers and any other advice from everyone.

Things I want to know ?

1. We bought them things like (refrigerator, beds, cooler, almarah, utensils) which are with them as of now. How to get these things back.
2. How should we proceed regarding filing the case, what type of cases can we put on him ? OR
3. Should we settle it with the police and elders and get divorced mutually if both parties agree to it? If he doesn't agree, how should we proceed ?
4. How long does a contested divorce will take ? How much time and money would it cost if it drags ?
5. My sister and my dad both are worried because we come from a rural background and also we faced a lot of issues regarding matches for the first marriage ( we didn't get suitable matches because she studied only till 13th), they are thinking they might not get matches for second marriage. And also my sister goes into depression and anxiety due to stress and tension (happened a couple of times before marriage as well, ) and doesn't get sleep at night if triggers happen.
6. Can I get online consultation (want advice) from a lawyer who can guide us how we can proceed in these matters, no clue how to proceed and all.

Long:

For Marriage, Instead of giving dowry, We gave my sister everything in the form of gold (12 tola) and an extra 1.5 tola of bracelet for the bridesmaid. Soon after marriage he took out a loan on the bracelet and kept lying.

The reason they want to sell the gold is, his sister recently got married. They agreed to give his sister a dowry of 3 lakhs, which they didn't even give and also they have a loan of around 4 lakhs and also loan of a vehicle, so in total the amount comes close to 10 lakhs. So every time they mentally harass my sister regarding the gold.

His uncle (who stays close to the bridegroom in the city) was the main person who was responsible for this marriage. His uncle came and convinced my dad that he will take care of anything and my sister is like a daughter to him.

So once after he beat my sister we informed his uncle regarding the issue, his uncle promised that he will keep the gold in locker so that he can't sell it. He just dragged things to calm down, he never wants to do that, in fact he is supportive to them.

He is childish, lies through his teeth, and has anger issues. When he gets angry ( for small silly things ) he tears clothes, punches the wall and acts childish and he doesn't listen to anyone, he ignores the problem he has but will be the first person to point out others problems. Few times he beat my sister on the road after stopping his bike in the middle of the road and says my sister should listen to everything that he says. On top of that he doesn't work at all, he is not even capable of paying rent and harassing and forcing my sister to move along with him to his village (stays in the city usually), so that his parents will take care of his expenses and he need not work.

The marriage was based upon a lot of lies. They said they have 2 lorries 1 own and 1 on finance but in reality there is only one lorry and that too on finance. But he is a lazy fellow who doesn't work at all and he couldn't pay the EMI’s on time. The finance guy came and took away the remaining lorry, he took a loan from the rent owner's son of 1 lakh (didn't pay back) and got the lorry released. My sister used to force him to work (because he doesn't, like push him to go for work), because they need to pay EMIs, room rent and for remaining expenses, but he used to make an issue.

He beat my sister 3 times losing his temper (no proof). There were people involved (our relatives, their relatives and common friends) who were available regarding discussions related to marriage (like dowry, things etc.,) while getting my sister married. So when domestic violence happened my sister we informed the persons involved (his uncle and one other relative) about that but there is no recorded proof as such. So can they be witnesses of the incident ?