SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Credit Card Fraud. Help please!!!
DATE: 2024-07-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dyjqbt/credit_card_fraud_help_please/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone,

I wanted to share about my experience with a credit card fraud. So this is happening to one of my SBI credit card. One sunday as i open my credit card statement i could see 9 transactions amounting to 95k is showing as unbilled transactions (merchant is Amazon.in) dated the day before, i immediately knew this was not done by me and i checked my mails, SMS for any OTP or alerts regarding the same and i saw none. I knew something fishy is happening called the bank immediately blocked the card and also disputed all the transactions. Also raised a police complaint online. The bank asked me wait for 2 days for settlement of funds (Don't know why they asked me to wait till settlement of funds, as i already raised the dispute with 48 hours) after that they said the investigation has started and they will get back to me. After 1 week i reminded them again and they said the transaction happened in a secured manner but case has been transfered to core processing team for further investigation and asked me to share the police complaint copy with them. I reiterated about my situation about not receiving any SMS and mail etc and also shared the police complaint copy. After this no response from them, and i have been waiting for past 3 weeks, suddenly i get a bill with all the unbilled transactions. so i sent again a mail about this and how i received the bill with disputed transactions, but now they are saying they have completed the investigation, they are saying it happened in a secure manner and i have to make arrangement to pay the bill on due date. I have not received any communication on the investigation process nor they have asked me to submit any additional information. without this how can they conclude the investigation?

So now i have raised the complaint with RBI ombudsman regarding the same. Any chance i might get any help from it. My due date for repayment is in 20 days. What are the consequence if i don't pay.

I have not received any OTP, Emails or calls regarding the transaction taking place nor have i shared my credit card details with anyone else. Is my system or mobile phone hacked because i don't know how this might have happened.

Have anyone else faced similar scenario or any legal advice would be helpful. Thanks in Advance.