SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I regret being anti-Congress...
DATE: 2019-06-04
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/bwlkyo/i_regret_being_anticongress/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was never a Modi fan so this isn't about that, but about a softer anti-Congress sentiment... Basically, I thought that the Congress and BJP weren't too different, and what was needed was a way to shake up the system. Unlike, say, the GOP vs Dems in the USA, I figured that Indian politicians are basically on the same page when it comes to technocratic issues---they all support similar paradigms when it comes to advancing infrastructure, healthcare, education etc.

During the India Against Corruption movement I wasn't necessarily fully aligned with Anna Hazare---(you can't just demand the government instantly pass your preferred legislation via hunger strikes)---but I supported their right to organize. After the Nirbhaya incident, I was upset when they banned protesting at India gate, and I got especially mad when a policeman died of a heart attack and the cops tried to pin it as a murder on young AAP activists. I personally joined a vigil at Jantar Mantar. The need for change was in the air; there was restlessness among the youth, and various groups were coming together to ask for something different.

This anti-incumbency is why I voted for AAP in the 2013 Delhi elections. I didn't have anything against Sheila Dixit, but my view was the UPA had gotten arrogant, and the BJP wasn't all that different, so we needed new blood in the system.

Boy, was I in for a rethink.

First Arvind Kejriwal disappointed me instantly by going on dharnas shortly after becoming CM. And his cause---putting the Delhi Police under his control--(which he continues to pursue, to the extent of making it a major issue in the lok sabha elections!) is not something I care about, or even consider advisable. Then I found the Odd-Even car rationing adventures silly as well, given that passenger cars are a minor contributor to Delhi pollution compared to factors like crop stubble burning.

Meanwhile Kiran Bedi turned out to be a partisan, and the rest of her BJP cohort turned out to be amateurs. The government kept creating marketing schemes that had little to show in ground results (Make in India, Skill India, Startup India, Clean India.) Not to mention recruiting us all into their Yoga Day programs, and Ms. Irani deciding that Christmas is now an essay-contest called Good Governance Day.

High profile lynchings happened, and members of the establishment party blew off the issue by saying 'law and order is a state subject'. Then the obsession with 'black money' led us into the demonetization disaster, one of the worst economic-policy blunders in history. Then they almost shut down my phone and bank account because I hadn't linked them with Aadhaar, stopping only because the Supreme Court intervened. On top of all that Arun Jaitley's finance ministry shoved through the GST and followed up it up with nearly weekly amendments. Fuel prices were low in the international market but our government kept the price high to reap the excise benefit.

I haven't even mentioned the right-wing propaganda machine with many television channels and corporate houses in lockstep with the agenda. I still don't understand why Balakot is seen as some sort of triumph when the effect of the bombings are in dispute, and meanwhile we got our pilot captured and hit our own helicopter with a missile (killing six men).

I'm not saying the government didn't do any good work at all, but I recognize that many of the schemes they implemented (like basic bank accounts and direct benefit transfer) were initiated by Manmohan Singh's government.

On top of all that, now I have a better understanding of the theoretical nature of the UPA 'scams'. For example, the 2G losses were hypothetical. It's not like the lakhs of crores that were being mentioned went directly into some politician's pocket.

In summation, I was very wrong to think the Congress and BJP are almost the same. It turns out, the BJP is innately an opposition party and incapable of governance. I await UPA-3.