SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My company has outsources the promotion of its FB page, but we have been scammed. They bought fake likes. How to prove it?
DATE: 2020-03-17
SCORE: 29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/fk1b5h/my_company_has_outsources_the_promotion_of_its_fb/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello there.

We own a FB page for a small city in Japan.

We outsourced its promotion because my coworkers don't know how social media promotion works so they thought it was safest to ask someone else to do it.

A friend of my director introduced her friends' company, they are specialized in facebook promotion. They directly were talking about the big numbers of their previous promotion campaigns and I found that fishy. But my director was so hyped about it and didn't hear my concerns.

He paid a lot of cash for getting our FB page promoted abroad, one post every week for 4 months. When I say a lot, it's A LOT (a number with four zeros -in $).

They uploaded 5 pieces of article with a somewhat relative punctuality (the first 3 posts were posted every week as promised, but for the next 3 weeks there were no articles published. It's only when I made the remark they uploaded two in a row).

They boosted the posts, which is also what I expected. Our posts hit massive reaches and had lots of comments every time. Most of the time, it was comments from people in India, Malaysia, Philippines, countries in Asia even though we wanted to target Europe. Some comments were fishy, as for example accounts of naked ladies leaving random heart stickers as a comment, Asian men posting ad pictures for websites such as ".....com , RISE YOUR FOLLOWERS AND LIKES INSTANTLY", etc. etc.

We quickly reached 10k followers and likes on our page. After that, no post was uploaded, no post was boosted anymore.

They said it's because they reached their goals of 10k followers and that they won't be doing any more. I was infuriating, we don't need numbers. We need visibility. We need people to know about us. I don't care about your numbers.

If I only wanted numbers I could buy the 10k on an Indian website myself for like 100$.

Now I am trying to prove my director we have been scammed and that those 10k are fake. He seems to still trust them. I need solid proof to make him realize he spent loads of money in the air.

So I tried posting a few posts without boosting them. I reached an average of 600 persons and had 30 likes. I showed him the numbers, tried to explain him that if our 10k followers were legit we should be interesting more people than that, but the scam company told him it's normal.

I need proofs. I need something solid to make my coworkers open the eyes on the situation. Do you have any hint on what I can do? Are there people specialized in spotting fake facebook pages and making detailed reports? I'd be ready to hire one with my own money.

Please help me