SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: [INDIA] JOB SCAMMER. How to proceed?
DATE: 2024-04-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1ceglvo/india_job_scammer_how_to_proceed/

--- POST TEXT ---

One of my relatives applied to a job in Dubai for a company he found in a WhatsApp broadcast. 

My relative who is old and not very tech-smart messaged the guy. The scammer asked him few general questions then asked him to send his CV then next day Inter and Degree Certificate and Aadhaar card for authentication. 

Then the scam started. Scammer said that nowadays to reduce fraud the Embassy requires to Digitally Verify every document and for that he should pay ₹3750 for every document.

After each verification they even sent a fake approved document from the “Embassy” 

When I saw it, the “document” had glaring mistakes like “Mumbai Embassy”, a gmail account, BS Address saying Andheri West, Mumbai (eventhough this was supposed to be Indian Consulate in Dubai) and they didn’t even bother to change the template at the bottom where text was “Any disputes are subjected to [ENTER_CITY_NAME]” and a quick Google Reverse Image search showed the signature at the bottom was the just a stock photo. 

But I guess this was not obvious to my relative. 

After every payment they also sent his documents back with a APPROVED stamp on top Photoshopped.

My relative send 3 documents totalling to ₹11,250 before I saw it the obvious red flags. 

The data I have:

1. UAE Number of the “Job Contractor” 
2. Indian number of a “Attestation officer” of “Mumbai Embassy” 
3. One Profile Pic (probably extracted from Google Images) 
4. A BHIM UPI number and QR Code of the guy. 
5. A Fake Document. 
6. WhatsApp Chats to show the scam.

I am persuading him to go to the police but he is frankly devastated and just wants to brush the loss and doesn’t believe the police will help him but I want to get to the bottom and if not get the money back atleast report them. How do I proceed? 

Is there anyone who can perhaps help getting the address through the phone numbers of the UPI ID or something like that?

Meanwhile I am tracking down the WhatsApp group admin and will update this post if I get more information.

These guys are preying on desperate job-seekers who will gladly ignore some obvious fraud signs.