SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: CCTNS 2.0 to be AI powered; crime prediction, criminal profiling tools to be part of software: MHA
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/india/cctns-2-0-to-be-ai-powered-crime-prediction-criminal-profiling-tools-to-be-part-of-software-mha/2893265/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 31 (PTI) Artificial intelligence tools will be integrated in the under-development second version of the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems which connects 17,000 police stations across India to a centralised online platform, the home ministry has told a parliamentary panel.
This statement of the ministry was part of the report of Standing Committee on Communications and Information Technology (2024-25), chaired by Lok Sabha member Nishikant Dubey, on the impact of emergence of artificial intelligence and related issues tabled Monday.
The National Crime Records Bureau has envisaged many usages of AI for under development CCTNS 2.0 including entity resolution and criminal profiling where system can “resolve” different cases to a common suspect and complete an overall criminal profile of a person based on FIR data present across various police stations within and across states, the ministry told the panel.
Show Full Article
Another tool that is being contemplated is the integration of automatic prediction tool which can identify acts and section from FIR content using custom trained AI-LLM model, it said in its submission.
The AI will also help in predicting where crimes might happen and provide beat planning.
“Using Risk Terrain Modeling (RTM), combining crime history, social or cultural events and other local factors (e.g., drug hotspots),” it said.
The tool will also help identifying repeat offenders (history-sheeters) using AI techniques, ingesting offender lists and predicting risk scores for entities, it said.
The artificial intelligence can also be used in automatic number plate recognition, AI-powered facial recognition technology with CCTV surveillance for identifying wanted criminals as well as for efficient traffic management, it said.
“AI is also helping security agencies in enhancing their capabilities for intelligence gathering and counter-terrorism efforts by rapidly analyzing vast datasets, detecting anomalies, predicting patterns, cross linkages etc., thereby improving decision-making, speed and accuracy in such areas of operations,” it said.
The ministry also cited increasing use of AI in detection of online crimes through its anti-cyber crime unit Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C).
The agency, in collaboration with IIT Bombay, is exploring the use of AI to assign suspect scores to mule accounts by analysing behavioural and transactional patterns to help identify confirmed mule accounts.
“I4C is also engaging with the Reserve Bank Innovation Hub (RBIH) to develop a model that provides real-time suspect scoring for financial transactions, enabling banks to flag and potentially stop fraudulent transactions proactively, thus offering a robust layer of defence against financial cybercrime,” the ministry said. PTI ABS ZMN
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.