SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Have I Lost My Ability to Trust?
DATE: 2024-09-08
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1fbvflw/have_i_lost_my_ability_to_trust/

--- POST TEXT ---

I've become very cautious and fearful of strangers. There have been many times when I have been scammed and instances where people have tried to scam me. One time, near the Patel Nagar metro station, there was a guy who stopped me and managed to convince me to give him money for some Langer, saying "It is for an auspicious thing". Another time there was an old woman who wanted money to go home, as she said she had lost her wallet and I gave her. Another time there was a girl who claimed she was from some NGO and needed a donation, that it is for a good thing and I being a naive idiot, without confirming the truth of the matter gave her. The funny thing is I initially was giving 100 rupees and then she said at least give 500 and in the end, I gave 500 rupees. This kind of thing has happened to me many times, I've been scammed so many times that now I’ve started to just block out anyone who ever approaches me on the streets. I just mind my own business.

Yesterday, it was raining in Delhi. Thankfully, I had an umbrella with me at that time and was making my way home. Along the roadside, there was a guy, who smiled and me, even said "excuse me," and tried to get my attention. But I just ignored him and kept walking. But now he just keeps on popping up in my mind. Did he genuinely need help? Maybe he just needed directions? Maybe he wanted to cross the road but couldn't as it was raining? The more I think about it, the more I regret that I didn't even stop to listen. Now this thought has been bothering me, that because I’ve become so distrustful of strangers, I may have turned away someone who was actually in need of some help. It makes me question who I’ve become, and I hate the idea that fear has made me less compassionate.

I genuinely want to be a better person, but I just don’t know how to. How can I learn to tell the difference between someone who genuinely needs help and someone who wants to take advantage of me? Should I try to start trusting strangers again? I’m struggling with how I should be cautious but also not lose my kindness, and this thought has been weighing on me a lot.