SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Mother got scammed a huge amount through fake stocks app
DATE: 2023-12-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18qddd4/mother_got_scammed_a_huge_amount_through_fake/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don't want to give a lot of details which could potentially lead to the people on the other side finding this post and getting spooked out, so here goes:
My mother was initially in a whatsApp group which discusses stocks and the market, they generally seemed knowledgeable and were able to predict the market well. 
After a while they started shilling their app on the group, they said that they had tie up with some institutions and companies which allowed them to buy UC stocks. My mom initially put only a small amount into this. 
Now the real problem comes a few days ago when they announced that they were going to apply for IPOs, she applied for an amount, not expecting to get it, because usually the chances are less. 
But then she got them alloted, the total sum of the 2 IPOs were a large amount, and she asked them whether they could cancel it now. They said that she has to pay the money, otherwise she'll fave trouble with SEBI, and aksed her to sell the money on listing day if she couldn't afford it. Now she went and sent the money to the bank accounts they provided. I came to know of all of this just the next day. We provided the entire list if bank accounts in the cyberpolice report. 
What I've done till now is contact both her bank accounts and asked them to mark the transactiona as fraud. And filed a complaint with the cyberpolice. 
The entire system was very well made too, they had an app for the google play store and the app store, the entire group seemed pretty legit. A non tech person wouldn't have figured it out that easily. 
I looked through the WhatsApp group and most people reporting their profits through the app on the group were using fake names. 
Is there anything else we can do for now? Does it make sense to seek legal advice as soon as possible or wait for the police to contact us with a case, can this money ever be recovered?