SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Continuous online harassment, feeling helpless.. Having suicidal thoughts
DATE: 2024-05-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1d1ebej/continuous_online_harassment_feeling_helpless/

--- POST TEXT ---

With a heavy heart I’m writing about my sister’s story. This is about online harassment. My sister worked for a big IT firm in Hyderabad and has been getting harassed continuously by a person X for about a year now (we have a strong suspect and 100% sure of who that is even though there is no solid evidence)

Supposedly this person used to work in my sister’s team and they used to talk normally and she used to help him with his work. Suddenly that guy started spamming her like “Hi, whats up, where are you, shall we connect”. She felt that he was creepy and so she started to ignore him. 

Since she was rejecting her, he started creating fake accounts on Instagram with obscene names linking her and her project lead’s name (a guy). He gave requests to her friends and my family members as well and sent them messages that they both got married secretly etc etc.. She replied to him that she would complain to police if he doesn’t stop these. He took the account down but started creating temporary fake accounts with different names from time to time. 

She got tired of all this and deleted Instagram. He then started to harass her in WhatsApp using various fake numbers. He also harassed her at her workplace itself where he used anonymous email ids like proton-mail so that his identity would never get revealed and used obscene words to send emails to her colleagues at office including all her leaders. She had enough of this and complained at her office but they never took any action due to lack of solid evidence. 

We decided to complain to police as well but since we don’t have evidence that this is him (even though we know 100%), they also couldn’t take any action. Police themselves asked us to complain in cybercrime.gov website but unfortunately no action was taken. Unable to bear all this torture of getting embarrassed at office, she left that company to another company. He is still torturing her in WhatsApp. She deleted her account. He came to Snapchat as well but since she didn’t accept his request he is spamming her with continuous messages and calls through fake numbers. 

Any ideas on what to do would be greatly helpful as this very depressing and it makes her have suicidal thoughts and we are not able to track him down or prove that he is him (she does not have any problem with any other person in her previous company and 100% sure that this is him. There are also similarities in the typing style of that guy) 

To sum it up 
1. He is using fake identities everywhere and there is not one single weak link to catch him red-handed 
2. Complaints at workplace and police station didn’t help
3. Complaints in cybercrime website didn’t help