SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: My experience with Colive Glasgow (Part 1 of N)
DATE: 2022-07-18
SCORE: 67
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/w21zgm/my_experience_with_colive_glasgow_part_1_of_n/

--- POST TEXT ---

We all know that a lot of people are moving back to Bangalore after a long spell of remote working. House-hunting has been a pain. And a lot of people will end up resorting to co-living spaces. Just thought I should pen down my very short stay in Colive and the experience I had with them. 

I had to move to Bangalore from Mumbai in Dec 2020. I couldn't come here personally to look for apartments (because Covid + travel restrictions) and I really didn't suspect something with a legit website etc. to be a scam. I'll try to keep it as concise as possible. 

1. When you call the Colive sales number available, that's the only time they will be extremely sweet and prompt with you. Never after getting their money. So I clearly stated my requirements, i.e. fully-furnished 1bhk with car parking + WiFi etc. They said the rent would be 18k. I agreed. Made a small token payment in October 2020. They allotted me an apartment and sent me proper e-mails about it. I was to move in on 1 Dec. Then I got Covid and had to delay my move-in by 2 weeks. I informed them about the delay and whether I should make the balance payment so that I don't lose the apartment etc. They were again extremely sweet and said not necessary, you can pay 48 hours before you come, no worries. So I did that.

2. I reached Bangalore from Mumbai on 13 Dec 2020. Only to see that the apartment allotted to me (already paid also) was already occupied. And none of the staff in Colive Glasgow was aware of my arrival. The sweet talking Sales guy ghosted me from that day onwards. His job is only to catch the prey. They all feed on you in parts later. Then i had to make a scene, the area manager came, showed me the other available apartments in the building and I had no choice but to pick one. It was dirty, I was hungry, tired, clueless. I just left my luggage there and gave them 2 hours to clean it while I grab some lunch. After 2 hours it was still given to me in a dirty state. The bathroom had toiletries of the previous tenant which were not disposed. They provided a single bedsheet for a house with a double bed. No blankets or extra bedsheets (Remember: Bangalore winter for somebody coming from Mumbai) 

3. There was no WiFi. Spoke to the other tenants and they told me it was down since a couple of months and they don't care to repair it so they'd all taken their own connections. There's no security guard because everything is passcode locks. Basically nobody to receive your Amazon parcels. Nobody can come up to deliver without pass code. So I'd literally request the neighbouring building watchman to receive my parcels. The power back up would fail often (faulty DG) and when that happened the passcodes wouldn't work and you're just trapped in the building because biometric will not open the glass doors. This happened once and I raised a fire alarm through their app. That's when they repaired the faulty DG set. (When you raise a fire alarm, it calls a fire engine to the property, and the Colive Manager becomes answerable to Fire Officers) 

I know WiFi and power backup sound like minor issues, but these are the facilities for which I was paying a premium rent. 18k in lockdown Bangalore was way over market rate anyway. 

To be continued...there are more horrors, yes!