SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: Car Dealer's Son Delaying token amount refund
DATE: 2024-07-17
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1e5mrql/car_dealers_son_delaying_token_amount_refund/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi All,

I had booked a Pre-owned vehicle in Pune on 29th June 2024 by paying a Token amount of 25000/- through my friend who is based in Pune and he got the reciept. I am based out in Benguluru.

The plan was to verify the vehicle , check the service history and pay the rest of the amount if everything was fine. The Dealer agreed to this , I further mentioned that, If I find KMs are tampered or if its accidental in service record, I will not go ahead with the purchase.

I verified the service record through dealer and realised that, the car had a Major accident. Immediately , I notified the dealer and he said, he was unaware of it.

He said, he will return the money as he had transferred the token amount to the Car owner.I have been following up since then but the Dealer's son who is a 3rd year college student,keeps telling that, he would return the money .

He does not respond to my phone calls and whatsapp messages. I managed to find the same car on FB market place where another person was claiming that, he is the owner of the Vehicle.FInally,I managed to contact the Dealer and He assured that,I shall recive the payment. He further said, his son is busy so hence could not recieve the phone call. 
His father also stopped responding to my calls now. 

 

In case, If he fails to make the payment, I would like to proceed with a legal action against him. I did not wanted to do this but this person is a 3rd year college student. 
 
Can I file online FIR under section 42o of IPC under Fraud and cheating ? 
How to proceed with this case ? Does Pune police entertain me ? 
I do have the receipt as a proof. 

My friend who is based out in Pune said, he will personally visit and meet the dealer if he does not make the payment but I do not want him to get into any trouble.

Please advice.