I had booked one Flat of 683 SQFT at rate of Rs- 890/SQFT and total cost of flat was Rs-607870/ (Rs Six Lac Seven thousand eight hundred and seventy only) and booked one shop of 175 SQFT at rate of Rs-2000/SQFT and total cost of shop is Rs-350000/ (Rs Three Lac fifty thousand only) in their on going project in 2006. Project Details-Orient Avenue, Plot No – 7, Sector -16,Kamothe, Navi Mumbai.Details of Builder Office-Shop No - 33, Sector – 17, Jai Jawan Co-Operative Housing Society, Near Apna Bazaar, Vashi, Navi Mumbai, Accounts Office-B /206, Big Splash, Sector -17 , Vashi ,Navi Mumbai.Company Owener  Name – Baba Shukla (Krishna Milan Shukla) – (Cell No - [protected]) (Resident of Mumbai-Sion).Partner Name – Mr Shaikh Sawkat (Contact No-[protected]),Sales Manager –  Chandan Chavan(Chandrakant Chavan) ([protected]/[protected]) (This man is main culprit and misguiding to general people what he had done with me.).In  April – 2006,the rate of booking were very competitive to that particular area..For the registration, when I had insisted, builder had convinced me to commence the registration after Tri Party formation. In Nov -2009 when I had visited to site for registration, builder had asked me to pay stamp duty and registration charge around Rs 2.15 Lacs in cash .Reason of cash is avoid the show of same amount in company transaction while the same amount will be paid to state GOVT.I had paid Rs 165450/ (one lac sixty five thousand, four hundred and fifty) in cash and transferred Rs 50000/ (Fifty thousand) in account of MR Shaikh Sawkat (Partner of M/S Build Tech).Against cash Payment of  Amount Rs 165450 / At their Account office – B/206, Big Splash, Vashi, Navi Mumbai, their accountant had issued me one raw receipt on blank paper .When ever Builder is required (Mr Chandan Chauhan) and after their  intimation till date  I have paid  around 70% of both property cost.At the booking, Chandan Chavan assured us to possession of flat and shop will be within 2 Year from date of booking of maximum till Dipawali -2008. After paying the stamp duty and registration amount to M/S Build Tech Engineers, huge follow up, builder had asked me to come in March -2009.After their confirmation When I had visited from Jamnagar- Gujrat( Shifted Navi Mumbai to Gujrat in Nov-2006) to Builder site office  – Plot No-7 ,Sector -16 , Kamothe, Navi Mumbai , builder had refused to registration. Again after my constantly follow up with company Owner Mr Baba Shukla, again they had confirmed me for registration in May -2009 – and again the result was same.Around 7 Trips I had done till date from Jamnagar to Navi Mumbai for commencing to registration and loosen a huge amount of money and been harassed. Whenever I had follow up for registration, Krishna Milan Baba Shukla  had  misguided me and any how This Company is not reluctant to registration of my both property. For the evidence of my follow up and I had kept save copy, of e-mails, and sms and whenever It will be required I could able to produce as evidence. From - 11Th  Nov-2010, I was in Mumbai  and had huge follow up by telephonic talk as well sms and email  and lots of times, visited to Builder Site office – Navi Mumbai, and directly conversation with  Mr Baba Shukla (Owner of Company) , still I am misguiding, Cheating and harassing by Mr Baba Shukla and his company M/S Build Tech. From Last one Year I M bearing sleepless night and dipress due to negative intention of Builder, and fear to lose my property, which I had booked by my hard, earn money. Like me there are allot of person are suffering by this  company in their various so called projects. Initially when we had booked, the project name was Orient Avenue and Developers was Build Tech Engineers & Developers, Recently when I had visited to site, we come to know that present Project Name is Avenue Apartment and Developing by QUALITY DEVELOPERS. Owener is Mr Shaikh Sawkat. I would like to urge to  DCP Navi Mumbai,Crime Branch and Respectable Judicial authority to punish the following People of Buildtech and level of punishment should be exampled to others. Followings are the Buildtech men. 1-	Baba Shukla alias Krishna Milan Shukla (Involved so many cases, what I know recently.) 2-	Shaikh Shawkat Husain (Partener of Baba Shukla and Bragler). 3-	Chandan Chavan alias Chandrakant Chavan 4-	Paresh Nikhalje 5-	Mr Pramod 6-	Mr Vijay (Advocate. He has tried to sign me on fake document of property agreement). Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (3)