SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Long time lurker, first time being scammed…
DATE: 2024-07-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1ecwu40/long_time_lurker_first_time_being_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

I consider myself a pretty smart person, I have a four year degree and make a good salary. I’m relatively young. I live in a city and think I’m pretty street smart. Apparently not.

I am in the midst of a move and have been struggling to move my Wi-Fi from my old apartment to my new apartment. I’ve been trying to work through Xfinity’s virtual assistant, but keep getting stuck in a bot loop where I’m unable to access the link to actually request the move. Tried to work through the bot for an hour last night and then another hour this morning. Finally I was frustrated and decided to just call and have them switch my service but could not find a number to call anywhere in the Xfinity app, nor could I get the bot to connect me with a real person no matter how many times I asked it to. 

I googled and called the first number that came up (mistake number one: not thoroughly checking the number I was calling. Looking at it afterwards it’s clearly a scam site). I got connected with someone in India but figured Xfinity had just outsourced. She knew my address and a bunch of info about me and my Xfinity service so naturally I thought everything was OK. She sent me a code to my phone, and it came through the same Xfinity assistant I had been using earlier when I was arguing with the bot so I again, thought this was legit and read her off the code. Mistake number two- it said very clearly in the message that Xfinity reps would not ask you for this code, but since I was actively on a call the whole text didn’t show in the notification. I also gave her my new address (she somehow already had my old address). 

The next part is where I was just straight up dumb and I know better than this. She told me there would be a $100 fee to transfer my service, and asked if I wanted to pay by credit or debit card. I asked if I could pay in app and she said no because the transaction had to go through in order for her to submit the move request. I felt weird about it but gave her my card number, expiry date and 3 digit code. 

She then sent me a PayPal code. I told her I was uncomfortable and didn’t understand why she would need a PayPal code in order to process the transaction, which she explained was the “merchant” they were using and that she needed the code to authorize my transaction and verify it came from me. In my gut I knew this was off, but at this point I had been on the phone for an hour and was exhausted by this interaction so I gave in and gave it to her. I know! So so dumb. 

As soon as I got off the call I knew it was a scam. I called my partner and let him know and he is disappointed in me. I was just trying to get us internet as we are moving in together for the first time. I feel like an idiot, don’t worry. 

So far, I have cancelled my credit card and ordered a new one, changed my bank passwords for the credit card, called that banks fraud department to let them know, changed my PayPal password and removed any cards and accounts from my PayPal. My one worry is that I had my checking account linked to my PayPal, which has since been removed. I changed my password to my checking account bank as well. I submitted a tip to the FBI. I changed my Xfinity password. Is there anything else I should be doing to protect myself? One thing I noticed is that when I reported the fraud to PayPal, they said they had not sent any messages to my phone number recently. Is there a chance they used my card info to set up another PayPal or Xfinity account or something similar? 

So far there are no transactions on any of my accounts. I will keep an eye on them from here on out and will never, ever let myself fall for anything like this again. 

I know this is my fault and I take ownership for being so naive, but I do take issue with a few things here mostly on Xfinity and Google’s behalf. The fact that the top result when I search “Xfinity Customer Support” on Google is a scam call center is absolutely wild to me. In fact, after looking back on things, it seems the first several results when searching for Xfinity customer support are also scam call centers. 

Additionally, I think it’s ridiculous that I cannot connect with an agent through the Xfinity help bot and there are no phone numbers on their official site to call for help. This is just pushing people to search for these scam numbers. I haven’t even been able to report the potential fraud to Xfinity because I can’t get connected to a live person. 

I have learned a great lesson today. Don’t be like me. If anyone has any tips on what else I can do to protect myself now, it would be much appreciated.