SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need advise for this Demand Notice by Simpl
DATE: 2024-11-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gh3aqc/need_advise_for_this_demand_notice_by_simpl/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I have just received a notice at my residence from simple today. I had a due of Rs 3000. After their charges it’s 4500. The amount has been due for 371 days. Till date there had been only phone calls or messages which i had ignored. I have seen all the threads in this community and i know i owe them and i should pay them back but i simply cant I am student and cannot afford to. I just want an advise about what are possibilities of a legal action been actually taken. I certainly don’t want to pay them the extra 1500 bucks they are charging. I have attached the text from the Physical copy I received - Final Demand Notice (so i know it’s just a threat for legal action not a legal notice itself).

SUBJECT: SIMPL PAYMENT DEFAULT - FINAL DEMAND NOTICE
This is to bring to your immediate attention that you are in material violation of your legal and contractual obligations with One Sigma Technologies Private Limited ("Simpl" in relation to your Simpl Pay Later account, bearing account/phone numbe
Despite numerous reminders and communications from Simpl over the past 371 days, you have consistently and deliberately defaulted in making payment towards your Simpl bill, clearly depicting malafide and criminal intentions of cheating, defrauding and illegally enriching at the costs of Simpl.
As of the date of this final demand notice, your outstanding payment due on the aforementioned Simpl account is INR 4467.95, which includes the bill amount, interest, late fees, penalty and other associated charges. This outstanding due is in direct contravention of the Simpl User terms and conditions expressly agreed to by you while using Simpl's checkout and payment services.
You are required to remit the full outstanding amount of INR 4467.95 within 2 calendar days from the date of receiving this notice. Failure to comply with this legal notice will result in us taking strict legal action against you, including but not limited to:
• Filing a criminal complaint against you before the jurisdictional police officer in Bengalur and initiating criminal proceedings for breach of trust, misappropriation of money, fraud, wilful default and cheating, which are punishable and non-bailable offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC),
1860.
• Initiating civil legal proceedings against you to recover the outstanding debt, wherein you will be liable to make payment of the entire outstanding amount along with steep penal interest and legal fees.
• Reporting this delinquency to relevant parties including government authorities, employers, and background verification agencies, which will severely impact your future career prospects and credit facilities.
Ignoring this final demand notice or failing to make payment within the stipulated time frame will leave us with no option but to proceed with the above legal actions immediately and without further notice to you.
We reiterate that this notice is issued with utmost seriousness. It is strongly recommended that you abide by the terms of your agreement and make payment of INR 4467.95 towards your outstanding dues immediately in your best interest to avoid further legal consequences. Also be notified that this final demand notice will serve as an official legal notice that will be tendered to the Police Officials and the Honourable Court of Law as evidence of your wilful default in paying your outstanding dues.