SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is Amazon India selling returned/refurbished products as new?
DATE: 2021-01-03
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/kpgnjo/is_amazon_india_selling_returnedrefurbished/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know this has been discussed often enough and there are long explanations on how Amazon has rigorous controls and oversight mechanisms in place. But my experiences makes me wonder, is Amazon India selling returned/used/refurbished products as new (I mean, not the ones that are explicitly marked as 'renewed')? In my heart, I want to believe that Amazon does not commit any fraud. But almost all electronics' purchases I have made on Amazon have turned out to be less than satisfactory. Of course, the problems that I faced are known issues with electronics, but with the regularity that they have happened, I'm either really unlucky or its a reflection on lifespan and durability of electronics in general these days, or something's wrong with Amazon.

I've had Nokia N95, N9 and Samsung S3 in the past, bought from real world stores and used each of them between 2 to 3 years without a single issue. My Dell Inspiron 6400 of more than 10 years still works! But then I started buying electronics from Amazon and those things have been breaking down too, too much quickly.

1. It started with HP Omni (10.1" Windows tablet) bought in May 2015 and touch stopped working in about a year.
2. HP Stream (8" Windows tablet) - May 2017 again, about a year and half and power button needs all the might of the thumb to work.
3. Google Pixel (1) that I got in July 2017, within 3 months, its WiFi \[edit: WiFi module\] died. The service centre repaired it no questions asked, but it was not a happy moment.
4. Microsoft Surface Pro 4 bought in October 2018 and the infamous screen flickering in 9 months. It was replaced no charge with a refurb (and insanity that came with the Windows 10 installed in Arabic and non-working Surface Pen). Now, 'Flickergate' was a known issue, but read on.
5. A never dropped, never 'molested' Samsung Galaxy Note 9 bought in October 2018, screen was doinked around April 2020 - yellow, green discolouration that supposedly happened after a firmware update for many others.
6. HP Pavilion x360 laptop \[i7 (1065G7) 16 GB RAM and 1 TB SSD\] bought in September 2020 which is perpetually freezing, dropping WiFi, screen scrambling et al.

Edit: All my purchases were from their Appario Retail or Cloudtail and not third-party sellers.

Why is it that when something can go wrong with a device, it HAS to go wrong with one bought from Amazon?