SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Scam awareness -Be Alert!
DATE: 2024-11-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1gln1zw/scam_awareness_be_alert/

--- POST TEXT ---

An advisory on cybercrime

1. If you are called about how the TRAI is going to disconnect your phone, do not respond. It is a scam.
2. If you are called by FedEx about a package and asked to press 1 or whatever, do not respond. It is a scam.
3. If a police officer calls you and talks to you about your Aadhaar, do not respond. It is a scam.
4. If they tell you that you are under 'digital arrest', do not respond. It is a scam.
5. It they tell you that drugs have been discovered in some package meant for you or sent by you, do not respond. It is a scam.
6. If they say you can't tell anyone, do not listen to them. Inform Cyber Crime Police at 1930.
7. If they contact you using WhatsApp or SMS, do not respond. It is a scam.
8. If anyone calls you and tells you they have sent money to your UPI id by mistake and that they just want their money back, do not respond. It is a scam.
9. If someone says they want to buy your car or your washing machine or your sofa and say they are from the army or CRPF and show you their id card, do not respond. It is a scam.
10. If someone says they are calling from Swiggy or Zomato and need you to confirm your address by pressing 1 or anything else, do not respond. It is a scam.
11. If they ask you to share OTP just to cancel the order or ride or whatever, do not respond. It is a scam. In any case, do not share your OTP with anyone over phone.
12. Never answer any calls on video mode.
13. If confused simply switch off your phone &amp; block that number.
14. Never press on any link written in blue.
15. Even if you get a notice from the highest Police , CBI, ED , IT Department; do verify offline.
16. Always check if such letters are from authoritied Government portals .

As a matter of digital hygiene, do NOT share your address, location, phone, Aadahar, PAN, DoB, or ANY personal detail with ANYONE over phone or messages. In fact, refuse even to acknowledge your own name on a call. Tell them that since they called you, they are supposed to know your name, number, and whatever detail they wish you to 'confirm'. Even if they have your details, do not confirm or deny or get caught up in any conversation. Simply disconnect and block.
In every one of these cases, and similar ones, the procedure to safeguard yourself is simple: cut the call, note the number and block. Do not press any numbers during call, don't listen to them. Simply cut the call, block the number. Remember, if they are putting pressure on you, intimidating you, or forcing you to act or respond immediately, it is a scam.

Cyber fraudsters are coming out with different modus operandi to trap &amp; fleece you.