SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Judge dismisses NYC Mayor’s corruption case, but slams Trump administration ‘bargain’
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2025-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/world/judge-dismisses-nyc-mayors-corruption-case-but-slams-trump-administration-bargain/2575711/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Luc Cohen
NEW YORK (Reuters) -A U.S. judge on Wednesday dismissed corruption charges against New York City Mayor Eric Adams, but said however that the Trump administration’s rationale for ending the case “smacks of a bargain.”
U.S. District Judge Dale Ho wrote that the Justice Department’s assertion that the case should be dismissed because it was distracting the mayor from helping Republican U.S. President Donald Trump’s crackdown on immigration violated longstanding norms of prosecutorial independence from politics.
Ho decided to dismiss the case with prejudice, meaning it cannot be brought again, contrary to the Justice Department’s request for a dismissal without prejudice.
Show Full Article
The judge said granting the administration’s request that the case be dismissed without prejudice, meaning the charges could be brought in the future, would make it appear that Adams was more beholden to the Trump administration than to his constituents.
“Dismissing the case without prejudice would create the unavoidable perception that the Mayor’s freedom depends on his ability to carry out the immigration enforcement priorities of the administration,” the judge wrote.
“Everything here smacks of a bargain: dismissal of the Indictment in exchange for immigration policy concessions.”
Adams, 64, pleaded not guilty last September to charges of accepting bribes and illegal campaign contributions from Turkish officials in exchange for favors, including pressuring fire officials to let Turkey open a new Manhattan consulate despite safety concerns.
Neither Adams’ lawyer nor the Justice Department immediately responded to requests for comment.
The case has been a flashpoint in campaigning for New York City’s mayoral election in November, where the unpopular mayor faces an uphill battle for a second term.
Adams had long viewed the case against him as retribution for his criticism of surging migration during the administration of fellow Democrat and former President Joe Biden, which brought the case last September.
Adams found support from the Trump administration.
Emil Bove, then the acting deputy attorney general, said the corruption case was interfering with Adams’ re-election campaign and preventing him from helping the federal government step up deportations, a top priority of Trump’s.
He also said the Justice Department’s decision to seek dismissal of the charges had nothing to do with the merits of the case.
Bove’s directive for prosecutors to seek dismissal came as Trump revamps the Justice Department to end what he calls its “weaponization” against political opponents during Biden’s administration.
Critics have said the changes would undermine the Justice Department’s integrity and traditional independence, turning it into a White House arm subject to Trump’s political whims.
Bove took charge of Adams’ case after several senior prosecutors resigned rather than obey his order to dismiss it. Danielle Sassoon, the interim Manhattan U.S. Attorney at the time, criticized what she viewed as a quid pro quo between Adams and her superiors.
Adams and Bove have denied any quid pro quo.
‘SWORD OF DAMOCLES’
The mayor’s lawyers initially agreed to a dismissal without prejudice but later asked Ho to dismiss the case for good, saying the publication of internal letters by Bove and Sassoon about the case meant Adams could never get a fair trial.
In light of the unusual joint dismissal request by Adams and the Justice Department, Ho sought an independent view from Paul Clement, a conservative who was solicitor general under Republican President George W. Bush.
Clement, now in private practice, wrote on March 14 that the possibility of the case being brought again could hang “like the proverbial Sword of Damocles” over Adams.
“The prospect of reindictment could create the appearance, if not the reality, that the actions of a public official are being driven by concerns about staying in the good graces of the federal executive, rather than the best interests of his constituents,” he added.
A Quinnipiac University poll released on March 5 found just one in five New York City voters approved of Adams’ job performance, and 56% thought he should resign.
Several Democratic challengers, including former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, are trying to unseat Adams.
(Reporting by Luc Cohen in New YorkEditing by Daniel Wallis, Chizu Nomiyama and Frances Kerry)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.