SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Fraudulent brokering agency and their tactics
DATE: 2023-11-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/17soxrd/fraudulent_brokering_agency_and_their_tactics/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello Delhi, I was looking for a bigger place to stay w/family and started contacting brokers and checking out flats the previous month. Came across many brokers, many flats, everyday was a house-hunting day. No problems so far until I was contacted by Gorakh Property. I had liked a flat they posted on MagicBricks app. They called and texted immediately, their front office lady seemed nice and all understanding of the type of flat I was looking for. She called me many times, I finally made an appointment for a day and went. They took a service charge of Rs. 500 upfront, with the condition that Rs. 250 was refundable incase I didn't find a place under their listing. I paid up, I have the receipt. The horror started when they asked their 'field agent' to show me around. They never showed me the flat I liked and spoke to them about. Instead showed me smaller, older flats, quoting twice my budget, which by the look of it wasn't even worth that amount. The field agent was crass and dirty (sorry to say this, but he looked like he was high or sth), he kept complaining the whole time that I have a small budget and I'm aiming 'too high'. I felt unsafe, unheard.
Cut to us getting back at the office. I still had enough trust in the office lady to tell her that I want to see the house that I liked, through which they contacted me. She straight up told me I may have been confused. That's when I realised I was in trouble. She told me to come back some day and check out more. I left. 
My sis kept looking through the brokers she knew. The brokers who showed us around the most did not even charge us anything when we didn't take the flats. So I felt that I should contact Gorakh Property for a refund. They asked me to send the photo of the receipt with assurance that it will be done in a matter of days. But when I called them back again, they never picked up. I tried their other number, she told me that the display of the phone of the other person was not working, and that I should send it to her on the current number I was calling. I did. Blue tick. After some time, I tried calling and texting, no response. 

I posted about it before, and many told me to leave it behind. But it bugged me. Cos as an unemployed studying for exams, money does not come easy. So some days back, I started looking them up. Their Google Reviews are replete with similar experiences to mine. And most of the people they duped are not from Delhi, they're mostly from the South and Northeast of India, and in general those who are not acquainted with the darkside of Delhi, and trust that an agency will simply do its job. And ultimately who have no means to be as crass as they are, and even just the language barrier and limited Hindi vocabulary is an obstacle, rendering us helpless and disappointed. 

I want to put up this post so that it may be known that such tactics are being employed to dupe people of their money and the frauds are unbothered. Also, may this serve as a testimony to those new to Delhi or old for that matter, those who are looking for flats to be aware of such experiences faced by many people already. This was one agency, there could be many others. I feel it important to talk about it. 

This does not take away from the experience we had with the other 5/6 brokers who did their job, showed us places, heard us, disagreed to many things, yes, but were never out of line. I still believe in the goodness of people, even if they're frustrated and rude, they're doing their best to survive. But outright employing cheap tactics to dupe others is cruel.