SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Another 'Got scammed by Auto driver' post
DATE: 2024-01-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/19dmk5z/another_got_scammed_by_auto_driver_post/

--- POST TEXT ---

First, for some context:

I am a newcomer in Bengaluru. But, I have been following this subreddit for some time (because why not?). I am from Assam (North-East India, for those unaware) and currently in Bengaluru for a few days. 

I had seen a few of these auto scam posts here, but I had gravely misjudged the severity of these incidents.

What happened:

I reached Kempegowda Airport and decided to take the terminal buses to Esteem Mall. From there, I would take an Uber to GKVK, where I was headed. Being my first time in the city, I wanted to avoid public transport altogether, but looking at the cab prices, decided to change my mind. Some of my friends over at GKVK suggested me to take the terminal bus and get a cab from Esteem Mall. Please note that at this point, I had very little clue of the local rates from Esteem Mall to GKVK.

The first part of my plan went well, I took a terminal bus to Esteem Mall for around 120 Rupees (fair enough). After reaching Esteem Mall however, my day started going downhill. 

At Esteem Mall, I started looking for cabs (ola, uber were the ones best known to me). But after around 30 mins of cancellations and delays, an auto stopped right in front of me. The guy asked me where I was heading to. I avoided him at first and continued looking for cabs. After about 10 more minutes and being unable to find one, I thought to myself 'Kya hi ho jayega?' (Contender for 3 mistakes of my life). So, I asked the guy if he knows the campus. He impatiently told me to sit and asked me for 250 rupees (Again, I looked at the uber prices and though it was much, I was pretty frustrated at that point to care). I sat in the auto. We took off. He took a U-turn and ASKED ME FOR DIRECTIONS!. 

My heart decided to go on a freefall the moment he asked for my phone to look at the map. All the while, the auto is still running and I cant get off (I had a huge trolley as well). After collecting all the divergent thoughts in my head, I decided to give him my phone with directions-tracking to the campus. Now, you would think he would follow the map, but he just took one look at the destination and turned into a series of alleys (I'm quite sure this map thing was just a ruse and he knew the destination all along). After about 15 minutes of me hurtling from the left to the right, he slowed down and told me in broken-hindi that he did not know the destination was this far and I would have to pay him 2500 instead. I COULD HAVE FAINTED!!!

My whole calculating-logical side decided to go nuclear on my 'chalo dekha jayega' side and meanwhile this guy is going on about the inflation of gas prices and auto maintenance. I told him to drop me there and then and I would pay 250 and find my way about. He doesn't listen. He is going on about how 'wo cheating nahi karta' and this is actually a very fair price. At that moment, I am giving a performance of my best haggling and reasoning tactics, saying I don't have that kind of money and reminding him of our initial agreement. He is listening to none of it and going on about how "'wo cheating nahi karta' and this is actually a very fair price". 

We reached the destination (which was a back-gate, not even the front) and as expected, he is not willing to negotiate at all. I gathered all of the adamant traits I could think of (thanks to my ex) and refused the amount he was asking. After a while of to's and fro's, he asked me to get off and leave ("utar aur chupke jaa") without paying. And dear reader, trust me on this, I would have done exactly that, if some side of me didn't want to pay that dude something for his service (I know!!!). I insisted on 250, increased it to 300-400-500. He wouldn't budge, asking me constantly to just get off and leave without paying. I was beyond frustrated at this point. I had travelled a whole of 10 hours at this point and I just wanted it to end. I gave him 600 rupees cash. In response, he took out his phone, had me unlock it and called my number- just to show how trustworthy he is and how any time I would need him, I just had to call this number (ask me for his number if you're interested). I was glad it had ended. I WAS WRONG!. Just as I was taking my luggage out, he began bleating again about how I was the one robbing him of his hard-earned money and beckoning people to take his side. I had had enough. I handed him a 200 rs note and made my way to the gate. Later on, I came to know I had spent Rs 800 on a 60-70 Rs fare. 

In Conclusion:

As an "outsider", I was very much aware of the auto scams at Bengaluru but somehow expected better of people when faced with such an adversity myself. All of the people I have met in the city since, have been nothing but sincere, hard-working people. I am really failing to understand what scale of necessity compels people to scam unaware travelers relying on their "human-ness" . 

I would love all your suggestions/comments on the same and really hope this post adds to other such posts to help prevent the occurrence of such events.