SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Unknown numbers are impersonating people I know in real life and asking odd questions.
DATE: 2024-11-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1gjhjrv/unknown_numbers_are_impersonating_people_i_know/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys,I have something that has been slightly bothering me for the last 5 -6 years.. Searched online but i dont know if this is a scam in banglore/my school or like wtf this is...

 
So when this first started 5 years ago, i got a random dm on instagram pretending to be someone I know in real life.They addressed me with my name and school name (born and brought up in Bangalore) . At first I didnt doubt the authenticity of the person but then they kept talking about hair and leaning into various hair topics.(I had thick and long hair at the time)Usually people in my school used to ask how i maintained and managed this hair and that wasnt weird..just curiosity.But getting this asked over text over and over again felt weird.Then she progressed into asking for pictures and slo mo videos of my hair.I was young and naive didnt think too much of it.

After a few months i started getting messages from business accounts on whatsapp and instagram claiming to be from hair companies (international numbers) asking to be their hair model.They said I ve won some longest and thickest hair competition which I have never heard of or applied for either.I have never posted myself or my hair on any social media platforms and I have never applied to these companies or anywhere to be a model.

When i asked them how they had recieved my number, they vaguely answered and said other companies had given it to them.They ued to video call if i didnt reply immediately and started getting very aggressive by swearing towards the end(until I blocked them). 
 
Then it was quiet for a few years.This year around 2 months ago I again recieved a whatsapp DM from a number pretending to be someone i knew from my school days. Her DP however was different from the person I knew. When asked about the difference in picture she said that was her sister(although i knew that was not her sister as well).I confirmed with the real friend that it was in fact not her who had sent this. She also mentioned that she was being impersonated by many random numbers.

In these chats as well she started asking questions leaning towards my hair and asked to send pics. This time I played around to see where this was going by sending her some picture from the internet but she caught on and soon stopped texting,

Today i got to know that my younger sister also has recieved such dms where the person pretends to be someone she knows and asks for hair pictures.

To my knowledge the both of us have never ever shared our details to any particular hair/modeling/beauty companies.

All i want to know is where is this going?What is the purpose?If they wanted models they couldve easily searched up online.What is going on T\_T