SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Scamming Customers at Madina Market
DATE: 2024-04-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1cewj5l/scamming_customers_at_madina_market/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently we had to purchase about 25-30 saris for an event. We had choice of General Bazar and Madina and choose the latter as it was closer to our place and in our opinion had choices of shops. 

We first entered Laganshah saris which is a professional wholesale store. They had a couple of rules like you need to purchase a min of 5000 and you can't separate the saris from bunch, you have to purchase the bunch as it is etc. My wife after pondering for a while at that store, figured out that they don't have a good collection for our price point and decided to check other stores.

We started walking from there and reached a narrow lane exactly opposite the Bharat Petrol pump. While walking one of the roadside stalls on the left caught my wife's attention. The young storekeeper offered a steep discount on the quoted price and matched our budget. He even offered to separate the saris of our choice from the bunch. We ended up purchasing Saris worth 3000 and went ahead to purchase more from an other store before returning home. I was pleasantly surprised by the attitude of the shopkeeper, but despite being a non peak hour he was constantly in a sense of urgency in closing the deal. We purchased 15 Saris and understandably did not have time to check, remember it was a roadside stall.

After reaching home we had lunch and checked the saris. To our shock only one of the 15 was a full sari with blouse and border. All the others were cut pieces. We decided to return the stuff and get a refund from the fellow. I anticipated the shopkeeper to silently take the saris and return it because any argument would hurt his business as it was peak hour by the time we went there. Moreover, it is very less likely that someone would return to Madina for return on same day(since there are customers from like 100 kms away). Even if they refund to those who show up it is still a profitable scam.

What happened to us was beyond imagination. The shopkeeper tried to raise voice initially, which was promptly responded by us by raising our voice. One of his accomplice showed up from nowhere and carried me away from the shop. I tried to release myself from his hold. By this time the shopkeeper was joined with adjoining shopkeepers numbering 5-6 and all started slapping me one after the other. People started pouring in from across the street to hit/slap me. I released myself from the hold and ran to the store where we purchased and sat there shouting that "I am ready to get injured, let this go to the police station, I am not giving up." 

My wife was super terrified and apparently, she was attacked too. Unknown to us a bold lady with a mobile in her hand started raising her voice in our favour. I was surprised initially that the environment suddenly became calm and everyone who was hitting me is now offering to negotiate. I said that I was here to return the items and get a refund and I am not coming aside anywhere to negotiate. They called someone, he handed me my cash and took the products. We walked away from that place.

I was thinking that my resilience to their slaps prompted them to end this by not creating a scene. They must have expected someone to run away. But the lady also shouted, "Mai \*\*\*(party) waalo ko bulangi, &lt;MLA name&gt; ko phone karungi". And my wife said that she probably also had recorded the incident. What the goons did is that they cleverly de-escalated the situation, they prevented us and the lady from having a contact with each other. They were atleast 20 of them and were men of all age groups including the oldest one with full white hair and strong enough to hit a person in his twenties. They successfully made us both take different paths ensuring we do not get in contact with the lady who had proof.

This got me seriously thinking, probably the MLA(no offence to him or his followers but I consider him a borderline thug) may have actually saved me from getting hospitalized(well it is not even him its just his name). 

Is our situation so worse that we are at the mercy of this party winning - so that we can live and roam peacefully and confidently in our own Hyderabad. 

PS: Being born and raised in 'those areas', I must admit this wasn't first time I was bullied or slapped by an M guy. But the last time was when I was like 14 may be. Later we moved out of the area and it was definitely a relief.

Most of my relatives who still stay in the area maintain a network and do not hesitate to get into altercations. I am an introvert who seeks peace.

I am not encouraging you to stay away from the area. Just be vigilant and good to have altercations recorded.