SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Paharganj : A guide to visitors (and locals too)
DATE: 2024-02-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1aypb6u/paharganj_a_guide_to_visitors_and_locals_too/

--- POST TEXT ---

Paharganj a locality which was made to relocate the existing Bazars around Bangla Sahib in 1920's-1930's to accommodate one of the costliest shopping districts in the world Connaught Place. Due to it's vicinity to New Delhi Station, with the time emerged into the hotel/guest house district of Delhi. The place is not far from Delhi Sarai Rohila and Old Delhi station too which makes it an attraction for tourist, also the place houses a large number of budget hotels so it is bit economical though. Karol Bagh is also not too far which also house number of hotels. Paharganj is also famous for it's market and too. This post is all about Paharganj questions and answers ; 

Q1. Is it safe to stay at Paharganj with family or as a solo traveller ?

Ans. Yes, there are lots of good budget hotels here where you can come and live with family and for solo backpackers too. You can anyways check the room and ambience before finalizing it ( if hotel doesn't let you check the room, don't go for it ). This is a budget hotel area so you might not find lavish facilities there but definitely a decent room will be there. If not able to find any you can move towards Karol Baag but the price will increase.

Q2 \[IMPORTANT\]. I have heard a lot about Oyo scams and 'Massage' centers of paharganj, is that area still safe ?

Ans. In family friendly hotels, if you are with family staff will not initiate the massage talk, though you can be asked for by hotel staff or random guys on road if you are solo, you can politely say no and leave. You might see parlours and things happening around you but just ignore, thinking as a collateral of your budget stay. But if you are solo and you fall for this massage thing, it can be anything from a minor overcharged scam (the guy who approached you will ask for a sum of money, you will agree and pay, now the woman can be different or will ask you for more money and people in heat of the moment pay that/ you just pay and guy left and then no one came) to Blackmailing and other things, so the more you are aware about this chances you will be safe. You can also be a total buffoon and readily fell for this thing and get scammed. Oyo scams also happen there it's better you check your booking and call the hotel. I am not denying that these don't happen, but it can happen anywhere. Any hotel district in any city have same environment, even Mahipalpur in Delhi has more or less same ambience and incidents. 

Q3. How to commute and what is advantage of Paharganj ?

Ans. Through RK Ashram metro station on Blue Line, next station towards Noida/Vaishali is Rajeev Chowk, the Yellow Line interchange, two staions ahead is Mandi House, the violet line interchange. These three lines are enough to commute at almost everywhere in Delhi, also you can use other interchange as well. You can also get Bus service from Paharganj to most of the places. Sadar Bazar the cheap wholesale market is just near paharganj, paharganj is very close to Karol Bag, CP, Bangla Sahib, Laxminarayn Mandir, Jhandewalan, even Old Delhi. It is almost at the center of Delhi. New Delhi railway station is just in front of Paharganj. even Paharganj main Bazar has a good shopping stuff but most of which is hippie style but it is good. Bargaining is an art which is appreciated here

Q4. Is food good at Paharganj ?

Ans. Yes, iconic Choor Choor Naan, Sitaram Diwanchand ke Chole Bhature, Radheshyam Subhash Kumar ke chole Bhature, Banke Bihari Samose all are here in Paharganj. You can find good North Indian food, Nepali food and north eastern food here as well also typical Delhi street food. The place has Delhi Chabad House, lots of Jew people come here so you can find Mediterranean food here as well, all Kosher. Multani Dhanda is another famous food street.

Q5. I have seen that movie 'Pahargaj', have heard about different crimes here ?

Ans. Is there a place where there is no crime ? certainly not and yes this place has lot of influence of crimes but again, if you are aware and attentive and just mind your own business without showing curiosity about what is happening and why it's happening, this place is safe and secure. Which anyway is the thumb rule of survival in Delhi.

PS : STILL STAYING AT PAHARGANJ IS YOUR OWN WILL AND DISCRETION, ALSO TRUST YOUR INSTINCTS BEFORE GOING FOR ANYTHING.