SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I helped a scammer without knowing it
DATE: 2021-10-02
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/pzgynv/i_helped_a_scammer_without_knowing_it/

--- POST TEXT ---

I need to get this story off my chest. I've been carrying it as a burden for over 4 years now, but my brain keeps going back to this event and I feel like I'll burst if I don't get it out there, and I figured reddit could be a good place to do just that.

a little over 4 years ago, I was working at a Staples in Saguenay, a small town in Quebec, Canada. It was a summer job, I worked there as a tech clerk (not sure what the correct term is in english), basically helping people make purchasing decisions for technological products such as laptops, tablets, phones, desktops and accessories, as well as selling them of course. As you would expect, this store is also selling a variety of gift cards, such as iTunes gift cards (you can already tell where this is going if you're familiar with scams).

Now I'm not one to fall for a scam when I am the target. I can usually spot them from miles away, and I know my stuff when it comes to tech. Somehow though, at that time, I never encountered or heard about scams that use gift cards, and this specific scam did not target me, but rather a client we had, and I happened to be working at that moment. So I was taken aback, but I really think I should've known better then. Anyway, on with the story:

One day, three people enter the store: an old man, his wife and another woman, who I asumed was the woman's sister, looking somewhat in panic. The woman has a smartphone in her hand. The man approaches me and says they're on the phone with someone at their bank. They had apparently received a notice from their bank saying that they lost a significant amount of money due to a transaction error (or something like that, I don't remember the exact details, and the three of them seemed really confused as to the details as well). They were provided with a phone number to call in order to fix the problem. So they called it, but the issue is that the man on the phone speaks only english, which our three protagonists don't understand a word of (main language of Quebec is French, and much of the older population, especially in smaller towns, didn't learn a lot of english, even though we are a Canadian province). Because of this, they have litteraly no way of understanding what the man on the phone was asking them to do, but they could understand on the notice they received the words "transaction error", their bank logo and a negative funds value, so they were certain it had to be important, therefore they didn't hang up. Instead, they came to Staples, the closest tech shop, to ask the first clerk they saw (which happened to be me) if they understood english (which I do) enough to talk to the man on the phone, so they can understand what they need to do in order to fix this "transaction error".

Now as you can clearly see, I understand and can speak english pretty well... written english that is. I haven't had a whole lot of exposure to spoken english, other than Youtube videos, TV shows, games and movies, which isn't bad, but not on the same level as actually speaking to an english speaker. Long story short, I agree to translate for them. I take the phone and ask who's speaking. The man on the phone speaks with an Indian accent. Now, here you're probably thinking that it's a dead giveaway, but to stupid 2017 me it's perfectly normal for a bank spokesperson to be Indian or African. I had my fair share of calls with my bank and I never spoke to a caucasian person during those calls, so the Indian accent was not a giveaway to me, though the fact that he had one AND couldn't speak french when talking to people in a french province should have been.

Anyway, as he explains what their prey needs to be doing, I legit struggle to understand a whole sentence the man is saying, so I have him repeat a couple times to make sure I understand exactly what he is saying. I can make out the words "itunes gift cards", "redeem" and a certain amount (which I don't remember). I'm kind of piecing together that he wants them to buy a certain amount of iTunes gift cards, which confused the life out of me: why would a bank have interests in iTunes gift cards to fix a transaction error? Anyway, I tell them what I think I've pieced out of that phone call, and they are just as confused as me. However, as the old man asks what could possibly be the link between their bank and iTunes gift cards, the woman that was with them suggests that maybe the error had to do with the one they bought in the past (details are unclear on her explanation because it's been 4 years now). This seems to satisfy the couple enough that they believe they have to buy iTunes gift cards. However, I'm still confused and unsure that I understood the scammer correctly. I somehow still have no idea this is a scam though (as again, I had never heard of scams using gift cards before).

Just to make sure, I ask my collegue to come and listen to the phone call as well. The scammer proceeds to tell him exactly what he already told me and their prey. My colleague seems confused at first. When the scammer finished explaining, my colleague turns to me and says what he think he understood, which turns out to be the exact same thing we all understood. I ask him about what could be the link between gift cards and a bank, but the three protagonists explain what they made up earlier before he could answer, still persuaded that the transaction error has to do with the iTunes gift cards they bought in the past and that it must be why they need to buy more. Since it's the same product, it made sense to them. To that, my colleague responded "I guess it makes sense... ?" (the rising tone in his voice suggested the interogation mark). We were both confused still as to why they would need to buy more if they LOST money.

However, they made their truth and started pressuring us into selling them the gift cards so they could fix the problem ASAP. So, not wanting to create trouble for something we did not understand, we gave them back their phone, sold them the gift cards, and the moment it was done, they had gone away from the store. Once they were gone, we told our boss about it and he was exactly just as confused as us, but didn't know it could be a scam.

The next day, I wasn't working, but I have been told that they came back to inform us that they had been scammed off a couple thousand dollars. When my boss told me about it on my next shift a couple days later, he told me not to feel bad about it, as we were all unsure of what the hell that whole situation was. But how could I not feel bad about it? The more I look back, the more I see that I could've stopped this scam from being successful. There are so many points where I could've stopped it from happening. If I had known about this type of scam, I could've stopped it from the start, as soon as I would've heard about gift cards I could've hung up, give the phone back and explain it to them. Instead, I just let it happen without doing anything remotely useful. Since that moment on, every now and then my brain will decide to go back and relive it all for no reason. I feel too much shame to talk about it to someone I know, but I feel like I'll explode if I don't let it out, so reddit looked appealing.

So that's the story of how I helped a scammer without knowing it, and feeling extremely bad about it 4 years later. Thank you for reading, I'll understand if you judge me after this, but I just needed to get it off my chest. I guess it's a great reminder that anyone can fall for a scam, even the very confident ones. I wonder if I would've seen through it if the scam was targetting me instead...

Anyway, did you guys have any similar experiences with scams? It would make me feel less bad to know that I am not the only confident one to fall for it.