SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Both flipkart and ekart are such pieces of shit.
DATE: 2020-09-07
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/iobn6v/both_flipkart_and_ekart_are_such_pieces_of_shit/

--- POST TEXT ---

Once a customer's order reaches his/her nearest flipkart hub, then from there it's supposed to get directly dispatched for the customer's address mentioned by the customer himself while placing the order only. After reaching your nearest hub it's not supposed to go anywhere else but your address. 

I had placed a cash on delivery order for a beard trimmer on 3rd September 2020. It had reached my nearest hub the very next day itself by 10:04 AM. If the E-kart delivery boy did not have any ill intent or ill character then he would have delivered my order by 11:00 AM on 4th September itself. 

But noooo...he had to take it to his own home. I considered myself lucky to have placed a cash on delivery order. Otherwise had it been a prepaid order then my hard earned money too would have gotten lost. Had it been a prepaid order, I would have been really heart broken. 

Seeing that my order had been dispatched to an unrecognisable address from my nearest hub instead of the address mentioned by me obviously meant that some funny business had been done. 

The bridge number and pin given by ekart logistics via SMS service to my number in order to let me contact the delivery guy also seemed fake as everytime either the call failed to connect or said over IVR that the number that I was trying to connect with was switched off. 

Having been a junior customer care executive myself in the past, I didn't feel like getting in touch with the customer service executives as their whole script was already known to me. I already knew that it wasn't gonna be fruitful at all. They were just going to greet me with their fake forced politeness, take my complaint and give me a 48 hour turn around time ( which often goes beyond 72 hours normally anyways). The customer service guys just wanna reduce their average call handling time, take their target number of calls per day and be done with it for the day. And even after going through all the hassle my complaint still wouldn't have gotten resolved.

I am just extremely disappointed and angry. Now I understand why all the customers used to abuse me throughout every call. Actually it's not the customer service executive's fault either. There's hardly anything that he/she can do with the limited freedom given to him/her by flipkart organization. 

In my case it was the ekart delivery guy who took my order to his own home instead of delivering it to me. And all I can do is wish something really bad happens to him. It's not about the money or the thing itself. I had chosen that particular product out of all the products listed on their retarded site. Sentiments get attached. I wanted that particular product and that particular product only. Nothing else. It's about ethics, principles and values. 

I just feel so angry right now. Obviously by now the delivery boy must have used the product. So even if I raise complaints and manage to force him to get me my product, I will be getting an used beard trimmer only. Which I don't want. I want him to lose his job or something. But I doubt flipkart will hardly fire the guy. Instead they will just raise a "delay in delivery" complaint and make ekart put the same used product neatly/ tidily in a new sealed pack before sending it to me. 

I used to maintain a database of all the rude customers thinking that one day after getting a big high paying government job I was gonna get back at all those customers. Although I still haven't forgiven them but I kinda have some sympathy for them now. 

Just the thought of taking calls for the whole day used to make me feel feverish. Good thing that I got myself shifted to IT engineering field while I could within a few months of working as a customer service associate.