SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: BEWARE VERIZON SCAM
DATE: 2023-04-27
SCORE: 1911
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1305k94/beware_verizon_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

My good friend is a UPS driver and they came across a scam today on their route I wanted to share with you all. 

There was a phone being delivered to a residential address and before they even got to the address, a man approached the truck asking if there was a package for a certain address. 

My friend, the UPS driver, did indeed have a package for that address. Per protocol, they asked to see this man's license. 

Instantly, my friend was suspicious because a) the license had no watermark and looked fake and b) the package itself (a phone from Verizon) was addressed to an name that was Indian. The man in front of him looked most likely Hispanic. 

So our dear Driver says "sorry I can't hand you the package now, I must deliver it to the address."

The guy is pausing, asking the driver to call their boss, asking what time they will be around. Driver finesses all the questions. 

Makes their way to the address, and a woman answers the door. The driver tells her that next time she orders a phone, she should have it shipped to the store for pickup and confirms with her that yes, she does have a husband but it did not match the description flagging the truck down and asking for the package. 

Our friend, the driver, calls their supervisor and the supervisor confirmed that this is an inside job. Basically, someone at Verizon is tracking the phones that are being ordered. Someone is going through the trouble of printing a fake ID and via Verizon, has the tracking # for the phones.

Tl, Dr: Inside job being done at Verizon for people ordering new phones shipped to their house. They are printing fake ids and have a tracking # and are stopping UPS drivers en route to try to pick up the packages before they reach the residence and are potentially scouting these houses to get your phones before you do.

Edit: Thanks for everyone adding their experiences and I just want to clarify that we have some commenters claiming to be former Verizon employees, some saying this is not possible from Verizon's end and may or may not be part of a 3rd party scam. Some saying it is someone who may or may not be working for the company but has access to customer info/ email and it snowballs from there. 

Either way, I hope phone companies can come up with some better methods for new phone deliveries that are more secure for the customer. But as for me, all phone companies can kiss my ass 😒