SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Need a reality check
DATE: 2023-11-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/17pkylv/need_a_reality_check/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I think I was a victim of a Verizon scam via one of the tech coaches. Now I want to be clear, I’ve had issues of people breaking into my accounts and stocking in the past so it has made me very paranoid. This last bout with Verizon just so happened at the same time I found out my ex was breaking into my accounts. Hence why I’m here I could use a come to Jesus moment, if I am in fact over reacting.

About a month ago I called in to one of the tech coaches and he was super helpful and even signed me up for an additional plan that allow me to get replacements for any of my equipment. I had called in because I was concerned that my phone was being compromised again. He gave me some advice I followed, and then I moved on. If you days later, I was having issues again so I called in again. This time I get an oddball. he seem more interested in making me laugh, and trying to have a conversation with me about my day today rather than help. Eventually, I get off the phone with him after almost an hour, but something didn’t sit right with me about that conversation, so I called back. The new rep tells me there’s record of the call, but no notes. Mind you I gave the guy access to my phone because I had asked if he can check if my phone was cloned. At that point I was at the peak of paranoia because all of my social media Was being broken into, and deleted and re-created with only my ex as a follower. 

Things got so bad I had to get a second cell phone because I could not shake the feeling that everything I was saying was being listen to. Much more I ended up getting hit up via Facebook by this guy who insisted on being friends and being there for me because “ he knew what I was going through”. I later found out he was married, and I hit up his wife to confirm that they were in fact, in the process of the divorce, only for her to bail on the conversation and him to block me on everything. He was Indian, most of the tech coaches if not, all were Indian, the weirdo said he was from the Philippines, and I’ve had a few calls that were clearly phishing scams, and they sounded like they were from India as well.

I’m so paranoid now I can’t trust anybody I get on the phone via Verizon with. I just switched phones, Apple ID, phone number, and at no point did I transfer anything from my old phone. And yet somehow I ended up with the voicemails on the new phone. The tech from Verizon said it was because of the Sim card that the other Verizon employee insisted on putting into the new phone, despite me, asking her not to. So she created an eSIM for me… I still feel sick to my stomach. 

So tell me, am I being overly paranoid?