SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Lost money to a adult service scam.
DATE: 2025-03-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1j79ojb/lost_money_to_a_adult_service_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I recently got a contact of a "woman" giving paid "massage" service in Hyderabad (if you catch my drift) on telegram. I've seen many such "service providers" and this contact seemed okay for such a shady service. I agreed to pay the booking charges of 1K via Gpay.

She asks for my location. I share a nearby building location to her. I get her location. I reached the area. It's almost like a small village colony here. A tiny temple here and there and few small shops around. Hard to believe that just 1.5 km away is the city many road with many shops and the hustle and bustle of hundreds of people going about their daily lives.

I ask where is she. She asks to share current location again. I share my current location as a google maps link. Now the woman asks to pay the remaining 3K before meeting. Fine. That's the complete charge for the service. I pay that. Now she asks for security deposit of 3.5K and refused to budget. I pay that too but I get suspicious. Now she asks 4K more for some other BS deposit. I'm pretty sure I just lost my money to a dirty and brazen scam.

I refused and moved 50m to a different location and started watching. 2 men show up in a splendor bike looking confused. They repeatedly look into their mobile and look around. Now I'm pretty sure they were here to force me to empty my wallet.

I leave discreetly and after reaching a safe location, I text the "woman" asking my money back. She resuses and insist on getting the 4K deposit. I make an excuse and tell I'm cancelling the booking because she never showed up and I needed to leave urgently. I have no money left in my bank.

After repeatedly nagging me, she even agreed to meet without any more payments but I'm not falling for it, I demand my 7.5K back but "she" has stopped replying.

I'm not married or currently in relation, so it's not like I'm hiding a secret affair from anyone.

Please advise me on my next course of action.I have the UPI payment details and chat history.

Should I go to the police? Is there any way to recover my money? Please anyone?