SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: B'lore Owner refusing to return my token amount after I changed my mind
DATE: 2025-02-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1iunlno/blore_owner_refusing_to_return_my_token_amount/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone. I'm a 24F working in Blr. Recently I was on a hunt for a good separate room in a big apartment w flatmates for myself. I checked out this place few days ago and absolutely LOVED it. Although it was a little over my budget, I still went ahead. I spoke to the flatmates for almost 2 hours and didn't find any red flags and thought everything is as per my needs. 

I even put down a token amount of 25k before leaving the apartment when I went to visit. But the next day I did some math and realised that paying deposit, maintenance, rent and the setup cost for the apartment was too big of an amount (1.2 lakhs total upfront) for me to put upfront and that it is not a wise financial decision to lock a big amount like that. 

So I called the owner the next day to tell him I'm no longer interested and that he should refund my token amount. And he refused saying tokens are non refundable and that I should find a replacement and he would consider the token paid. 

His property manager forwarded me this message earlier today

"The token is always non refundable as was conveyed to her prior transaction. The decision on her part was made after thought. 

A relatively big amount was quoted so that we don't entertain non-serious prospects and avoid situations exactly like this one.
We declined other people because of her and we face the loss due to her careless and hurried decision. She was not forced to put down the token, she did so as a functioning adult capable of taking decisions. 

If decisions like this could be flipped, then what purpose would token amounts serve? It would be useless to collect tokens.

There are only two things we can do for her here:
1. If she is able to find someone to take her spot from March 1st, we can accept and consider the entire token amount to be given to us by the replacement.
2. We can refund 20k to her from our end if and only if we are able to find a replacement by March 1st. The 5k will be withheld as penalty charges for our losses.
3. If we are unable to find a replacement by March 1st, the 25k is forfeited.

Her unprofessional behaviour has cost us convertible leads. And hence there must be compensation for the same. 

Incase she disagrees to this arrangement, clarify to her that this is a civil matter not a cybercrime matter and that she should file it in the civil court. She will hear from my lawyer if and after she chooses to do so."

25k token amount is big amount for me and cannot afford to lose it. What should I do? Any advice and help is highly appreciated.

Thanks