SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Haven't paid cc debt since 4y
DATE: 2025-01-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1ib3nhu/havent_paid_cc_debt_since_4y/

--- POST TEXT ---

26 M here. Before COVID-19 I have had 2 cc worth 70k, 90k from HDFC and SBI respectively, and personal loan of 1.5 lakh from Cred (from IDFC). Drained all of that and put into crypto. Successfully wasted everything. Like, 3 lakh. I tried to pay them for few months and then covid happened. Even during covid, I paid 2 EMIs. Later gave up because of no work. Later they called (all hdfc, sbi, cred, IDFC) and SBI came for home visits even. They harrassed my father. 

 They even hired a local guy in my village to follow up this with my parents. I wasn't there and back to work by then (2021). As my father informed me about this, I said they're all trying to scam you, all the documents (aadhaar, bank statements) they show were fake and leaked out of xerox shops and job portals and such; ignore them and go on. I setup block every unknown number on his phone to stop them from calling again. Local guy followed for some days and gave up. I have similar setup on my phone. Only calls from contacts get through. 
 Those Banks froze accounts, CCs, and sold the debt to recovery agents. They were ruthless.They offered for settlement for 50% amount. Using foul language and threatening and all. Then I decided not to pay for these scumbags. HDFC kept sending RPADs and SBI RPADs abd physical statements to home, for an year and stopped. They would occasionally send Legal notice with "Recarz" their private advocate or something. Once I decided proceed to go through their arbitration process and tell them to allow me to pay via EMIs, which they previously declined stating "not eligible". Finally on the day and time, for the zoom meeting, the arbitration lawyer didn't showed up. I kept records of all this and sent screenshots to those sbi guys and arbitration lawyers. Then they rescheduled after some time. I understood they aren't serious about it and I didn't attended.

Kept up with calling though. But less frequent. Like 3 to 4 calls avg per day from all combined. 

Later after 7y, credit cibil history would get cleared. Hopefully.