SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: I was almost a victim of an Bank Fraud. What can I do to protect myself now?
DATE: 2025-02-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1izk3qy/i_was_almost_a_victim_of_an_bank_fraud_what_can_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey, all.

This morning I got a call from a guy claiming to be a part the relationship manager of Canara Bank saying that I haven't done the KYC in the last 6 months. Plus my card is to expire in less than 6 months so I need to get that updated as well. For context, this was quite early in the morning and I've been dealing with the sudden death of my cousin so hadn't slept well in a few days. In my sleep deprived state all this seemed to make sense and I shared the OTPs that came to my phone that he needed to perform all this. 
 
What set me off was that the last SMS said someone had logged into my Net Banking Account. I Immediately cut the phone, logged into my Net banking account(I guess they hadn't changed the password yet) and changed my password of my account. I also proceeded to change the passwords of my other bank(SBI) account as well. 

I called the Canara Bank customer care and they told me that they don't see any new transactions on my account. I can see the same in my transaction history. No money has been touched so far. They suggested I can block the account, but this is an account I rarely use and I never have more than 3k rupees in it at any given point so it didn't seem necessary. I have blocked my Debit Card tho.

I also want to point out that I also got 2 OTP from other orgs

\- Number verification from OneMoney

\- Mobikwik required consent financial information via FinVu AA

I went to both OneMoney and FinVu AA and it shows I have granted some consent to share financial information with them. I was able to delete all the consents and the accounts themselves in both the the orgs

I also checked CIBIL and I see that I don't have any new enquiries made in my name. I checked my Aadhar eKYC history and it looks like no new eKYC requests were made. I have read about fraud loans being taken in people's names. This is all I could check to make sure nothing of that sort has happened.

Is there anything more I should be doing to protect myself here? I understand I was stupid but any helpful advice on what I can do now would be much appreciated.