SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Nri 498A case
DATE: 2023-11-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/17vjw6v/nri_498a_case/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi , I am writing this anonymously as I need help.I was 20 when I met my husband working in MNC and a btech graduate. A virgin and never had any bf before , we met through online dating site, he showered me with care, affection and gifts and I thought he loved me.It was long distance but after a while when I was not ready to meet him , he asked if I will not meet in person he will break the relationship. Till that time he told that he did bsc in computing from ireland but left it in 3rd year and he will complete his studies and go back because I told him explicitly that my parents value education very much.We were from different regions of India , in my community education is priority and in his businesses and money and going abroad.After we met we had physical relationship , next day I inquired and he told that he did only 2 years and slowly steadily all lies he made about his business and education unfolded.His startup was failed and he did only 1 sem that too failed and dropped out .Now he is intelligent and may not have formal education but has good coding skills .I didn't leave him but told his father and asked him to help him fundvhis studies and my FIL agreed that time.My parents didn't wanted me to marry him but my FIl suggested and assured me that he will convince my parents so we got arya samaj marriage.Then my husband went to canada but before that in 2021 he neglected and ignored me and at that time I came to know about his 69 lakhs loan on him I tried commiting sucide . He went to canada everything was normal until it wasn't he started slolwly not calling me and ignored me .His father asked us to help him and we gave some 3 lakhs for his education in total 2 lakh joint fd and 60 k every sem. Then I went to canada and he completely ignored me , became detached diatant meanwhile I suspected a girl and their affair . He beated me and had Dv case against him, I tried saving him and never gave any written statement or put charges on him .He blicked me off and went aOWL and then said in front of police officer in canada that he is filling for divorce and had nothing to do with me.I came back reported it to NRI cell and now case is stuch at mahilla thana .He didn't attended any counseling session but I did and he and his famiky gave excuses for them not attending. He has hired a lawyer and is repjying on mails through legal answers in diplomatic and vague answers.Not filling for divorce and neither living with me.I have all proofs from 911 call recording hospital bills where I committed sucide to bank statements of money taken to his abuses to my mother and me.I have also his immigration fraud he did with canada he used fake certificates to get study permit. Now the higher officials I have showed all the proof says they can send an immigration report to nri cell and high commision asking for his deportation and visa cancelling since there is more than ( 2000 pages) evidence of him commiting dessertation, abandonment, dowry , Domestic violence, immigration fraud and harassment which led to me commiting suicide. 
He doesn't want to reconcile and even of he would that would be for closing the case.
Please give an honest opinion from third party.I don't want to make a wrong decision that I regret for my life. Should I trust him again?
Or should i go forward with filing FIR and deport him?