SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Averted dangerous Team Viewer scam!
DATE: 2017-04-14
SCORE: 32
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/65drn6/averted_dangerous_team_viewer_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I thought I'd share a scam I averted from a while back, so people who are even less technically inclined with computers than I am (which still isn't a lot as I'm quite the average noobie myself) can remember to be smart, use their best judgement, and not fall for something with potentially serious consequences. 

So I work for my families business, and they were away on vacation at the time of me being in the office. I was handling emails, calls, shipments, production, all of it...so I was stressed and wanted to do the best job I could without screwing up. Anyways, so I get this call from an unknown number (red flag #1) and it was some person with a noticeable accent, most likely from India (red flag #2)... 

*sidenote on that point, I don't mean to be a dick or racist or offensive, but with 90% of these suspicious calls that ask for sensitive information (banking info) or want you to sign up for some bullshit 'deal', it sounds like it's someone from India or a computerized voice with spouting your name and basic information (that it can easily find on the web) that's trying to scam you. Sorry, but that's just the pattern I've noticed over the years. If your bank or software provider or whoever has to reach you, they will email you and you call them. They never call you and ask for information over the phone.*

Anyways, so I'm already suspicious and I never give out any personal information to someone I don't know over the phone. But, this time I was almost tricked because of how much they knew about my father and our business. They told me that my dad called them - the person was claiming to work with Microsoft by the way - and had asked about some updates or fixes done on our computers OS at our business address. I knew that a company as big as Microsoft would never call people individually for updates like this, so that was (red flag #3). Even still, on the off chance that my dad was having problems with the computer I remained on the line to just see where it was going. I was worried that if our computer - the main one that was crucial to the operation of our business - wasn't working and I failed to authorize it getting fixed, then I'd get into trouble and cause more problems. I was stressed snd worried so I didn't want to screw up.

The caller then proceeds to talk to me about some problems my dad asked to get fixed - which a quick google search after the call revealved that they were generic, vague, and unspecific to us - and that the only way they could fix them would be to install a program caller Team Viewer so that he himself could look into our system and make the fixes from their end. For those who don't know, this program is used for people who want access to a computer that they physically can't access by using another computer elsewhere. My parents were on vacation and wanted to check emails at their leisure on the business computer back home. So the program gave them the ability to use the laptop they have with them out of country to login to our business computer at home; viewing files, downloading updates, accessing information stored, creating invoices...everything.

The only saving grace I had at this point was that I already knew what Team Viewer was and what it did. So that really concerned me and my instincts told me to take my chances with these 'issues' on my own, and not have some random guy over the phone have access to vital information. So I politely told the caller that my dad never mentioned this request to me before, and without his consent I would not allow them any access to our computer. The caller was very insistent about going ahead with this, and the more he pressured me the more worried I got and wanted to end the call as soon as possible. After I hung up I was so relieved I didn't go ahead with it, because I knew what Team Viewer would allow them do see and do. This was definitely the scariest close-call of a scam I've ever avoided!

TLDR: Sketchy guy from unknown number calls and asks for me to install Team Viewer on my work computer. I declined and avoided being scammed into losing sensitive info that could have ruined the family business.

So that was my noteworthy almost-scammed experience...please share your experiences in the comments as well as tips and tricks and general knowledge so we all know how to spot red flags and avoid these scammers!

Edit(s): spelling and grammar.