SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Can Reddit community help me expose Facebook (Meta) Scam? Please, help &amp; advise.
DATE: 2024-11-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gwmipl/can_reddit_community_help_me_expose_facebook_meta/

--- POST TEXT ---

I own a digital agency and for some of the agency clients my credit card was used for some payments to run their ads. In January 2024, Meta spent about 6.5 lakhs additionally over and above my agency’s campaign spends and my credit card maxed out. 

I noticed a large number of transactions on card however bill from HDFC bank showed 0. So I thought there must have been a mistake and I was refunded. After this in February my credit card showed as maxed out which is when I immediately received a large HDFC Credit Card Bill. I spoke to HDFC Bank that these are unidentified transactions and they mentioned that the payments have gone to Meta platforms and since I regularly make payments to them, I need to talk to them. When I spoke to Meta, they said they will investigate it. When I followed up consistently they mentioned they aren't able to identify the transactions and that I should raise a new ticket to issue a refund. When I raised a new ticket as per the instructions shared, they said that since there is no ad account associated with the payment, the ticket is going to be auto closed. Then I reached out to their support team again as instructed and they told me again that they aren't able to identify the transactions made and hence cannot make a refund. Upon studying bank statements the transactions went back to Nov 2023. At the time, the payments were not very frequent hence went unnoticed. There are now a total of 174 transaction where Meta / Facebook has deducted the money claiming it's for ads run but they are not able to identify which business was using my credit card as it's confidentidal. A total amount of Rs. 6,57,646 has been deducted. Please assist with necessary.

I initiate new conversations to Meta Support team. They said they need a 10 digit code to identify transaction which is printed in the credit card statement. I told them, about 2-3 years ago it used to appear but then since about 1-2 years it doesn’t. They said without that they cannot help. 

A few weeks later, I spoke to their representative again. They said there were able to identify the transaction and a hacker had hacked my account. They said they had got the hacker removed but because of that they couldn’t trace the transactions. I told them it’s still their problem as my credit card was used and their security system and safety measures for credit card data isn’t safe enough. They said they will document this on email and share the next process. After this I never heard from them. 

I went to Cyber crime team in Mumbai. They dismissed it saying since it’s Facebook, it cannot be hacked. And moreover my case isn’t a fraud case. Because in my case I know where the money has gone. My bank has confirmed it too. And because of them they cannot register an FIR.

I took to Twitter and I tried to connect with journalists there. None of the activist type people want to even consider the case. They made me feel that Facebook is too big to be brought down.

I have email proofs, I have telephonic conversations with Meta team. Meta has confirmed about the refund on email in April 2024. They have confirmed there was a hack.

And with all this, I have lost money. 

It created a massive working capital crunch in my company. Extreme stress of overworking. 

I do not trust the police and cops anymore. I feel lost with the legal system we have in India. I truly don’t know where to go. Please help. If you need proofs I can share them here.

Meta has broken the privacy and safety of user data policies by allowing my credit card to be used by someone from outside India. Which means our data is not safe with them. They have confirmed this on call that it happened. 

Currently with the bank statements. No meta transaction can be tracked by Meta. They themselves have no clue. If you ask them where this money went they will ask you for the 10 digit code that is supposed to come to you on the credit card statement or through an SMS which doesn’t actually come these days. Without that, Meta themselves will not be able to tell you were the money went. 

And if it’s a hack case like mine, it appears you would have lost the money because no one is willing to help. Meta has no clue, Cyber Crime team in Mumbai thinks Meta cannot be hacked, Bank confirms that money has gone to Meta and it is an actual legal transaction so that is not recoverable.

How do I get my money back from Meta? Can the legal system in India help or am I doomed.