SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Getting cheated out of our Property and mental and legal harassment by uncles
DATE: 2022-07-26
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/w8bacz/getting_cheated_out_of_our_property_and_mental/

--- POST TEXT ---

I live in Maharashtra, My Grandpa made a will (that had mentioned only half the properties as of the time of his passing) 10 years before he passed in 2012. Note: The will is 20 years ago registered and has been 10 years since Grandpa passed. All my Dads siblings' share was given to them by grandpa himself. Grandpa never gave the my dad's share of properties (i.e almost everything that was left) to my Dad, He always said "I will give it to you before I go, don't worry it's all yours" After his sudden demise in 2012, We didn't proceed his will because we didn't want to do it till Grandma was alive because it would rip apart the family which would have tough for her and we wanted to maintain a peaceful atmosphere. Over the time all the other sibling of my dad's popped out saying "As the properties were in Grandpa's name, They have the right to this property too" If they get what they are claiming is theirs then we would be left homeless... They come to our house often to fight with grandma for property and even did try to force their name on our property through city survey office. Last time while I was recording them coming to our home and fighting they snatched my phone and deleted the recording. Due to all of this stress my dad is in very poor health condition...

I just want what was meant to be our and get away from them for a peaceful life but they are saying that they would challenge the will and let the matter run in courts for years to come.

More Info: My Dad being the youngest, I'm still in college and not on my feet with a job, Every other sibling's kid has a Job and are very well off. My Dad runs a business which also is running in Loss but he doesn't know any other type of work so he is still running it. We can't legally stand our ground because we don't have money if they sue us and they know it, That's why they're trying to make legitimized profits.

Any help on how we can fight them?

Edit: More INFO:
Without the house we live in currently, we have no other house to live, We're living in this house and paying Utilities, Tax for many years for sure. Grandma lives with us but sides with Dad's Siblings because they live away from her and are her golden children, every time they come to our house, they cry Infront of her that they don't have money to eat... Grandma probs has the right to Grandpa's property or at least she is in power over it and she keeps signing stuff without telling my dad and acts innocent when caught, But when Dad gets her to sign stuff even for her own bank account, She calls everyone else and tells them my dad is getting her to sign stuff. 

Will clearly mentions that all other siblings have been given stuff and the House and the business belongs to my Dad and 1 other uncle... Relatives are telling us they will legally harass us and in their opinion the will was made by fraud and that they will challenge the Will and get a stay order at the very least. 

Last time when they visited our house to fight with Grandma and my family over property, My mom tried to record the situation but my cousin came up to her snatched her phone and deleted the video, They even threaten to hurt us that night (I wasn't there that night to protect my family)