SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Just dodged a pig butchering scam - A story
DATE: 2022-03-21
SCORE: 26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/tj5zi9/just_dodged_a_pig_butchering_scam_a_story/

--- POST TEXT ---

As the title says, I just dodged a crypto scammer and here is the story. I will try to be as detail as possible without giving crucial information. 

Basic details, me, female, tech worker, Seattle (now this is important). The story happened in the course of 4 days.

So someone slid into my DM on Instagram and asked if we had known each other since Instagram kept recommending me to him (first red flag, never heard of such thing). But fuck it, let's talk. Almost immediately he asked if I knew about Coinbase (I know everything I wanted to know about the damn thing but I'm not interested in it). But after that, for days, things seemed normal. I have a lot of internet friends so I don't mind talking to strangers.

So his accounts on IG and Line are very curated to fit the story he was telling. Photos from the locations he said he had been and so on. Homeboy said he lives in LA and he has lived in Seattle before. His accounts were not random, they were dedicated to aim at people from Pacific Northwest. But then I started to notice he got the locations wrong a lot. 

I asked him what was his favorite coffee shop in Seattle. He gave me a place in Bellevue. He said he didn't know what Indian food looked like and uh.... That's hard to believe if you have been to the city. He posted pictures of a lake up north and said it's in Bellevue lmao. 

All this time, he was flirting with me. We both speak Chinese but I'm not a Chinese national. He initially wrote in Traditional characters and claimed he was from Taiwan. Then the Coinbase conversation really began.

He kept telling me to download Coinbase but eh, your girl ain't touching that app. He went on and on in both English and Chinese how the app will give you financial freedom, passive income, less stress, etc. All these terms are red flag 

After a whole day of back and forth, I was like "Pretty sure you're scammer". He immediately started telling me like he loved me and he would come to the city to find me and we can be together. 

Lmao k. 

Then I noticed his Instagram account had vanished. Yep, scammer.

Then the conversation ended, that's it.

The future of cryptocurrency is bright.

EDIT: Extra notes, usernames with random letters, two or more underscores next to each other, random numbers. A lot of followers, like count doesn't match, all post had turned off comments, zero or few tagged images or tagged images are very old or don't make sense. Very good looking photos of themselves. New featured stories are very recent. Reverse search images MIGHT lead to some disabled Twitter account about cryptocurrency, banned by Twitter. Love bomb, promises, etc. Don't fall for it!