SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Screwed up real bad this time 
DATE: 2025-01-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1hs3xh1/screwed_up_real_bad_this_time/

--- POST TEXT ---

It was long weekend and was feeling horny so I decided to get an escort to fulfill my needs however it ended up really bad this time. For context I'm 22 M and currently working in IT sector. 
So I didn't had any contacts of any escorts for I did what any stupid person would do. Go on internet for looking for escorts. There I found a website and found the contacts of many escorts. Now the thing is when I called most of these numbers they were either unreachable or switched off. Untill after numerous trying finally someone picked up. Now the thing is it was a guy instead of a woman. This guy told me to text him on WhatsApp. From there he sent me pics of different girls to choose from.
Now after choosing the girl I told em it. The guy asked me to send my location on WhatsApp. I decided to send location a little far from my flat to keep my anonymity. The guy said he'll send the escort in half an hour. 
After half an hour I receive a call from another guys who says he's cab driver and he is at the location with the girl and asks where am I.
Now this is where the shittery begins I go out (this is happening around 12am) and meet the driver and the girl is also there. Now as discussed I pay the amount of 7.5k for the escort but then he asks me to pay another 4k for the travelling on a short notice. At first I was hesitant and was very reluctant to pay (we were in the car itself) but then that girl kissed me and grabbed my groin so I got carried away. Now after this payment the driver asks me to call the guy who I contacted initially. And then that guy tells me to pay another fucking 21k for the security of the escort for overnight at my place. At this moment I realised it was a scam and I have been looted.
So I keep saying no to paying anymore and this turns into an argument and I get out of the car. The cab driver also gets out and so does the girl. I start to walk away knowing that I can't get my money back very clearly. 
As I'm walking the guy changes his tone of talking and starts abusing me and in return I abuse him back. All this is going on and in that a third guy approaches us three saying what are you guys doing here. The moment he starts walking towards us the guy and the girl start running away. They get into their cab and drive away while I'm left behind.
Now this another guy who approached us catches me and doesn't let go of my collar. He keeps asking me that what were we doing and he seems to be kinda drunk. And this guy looked really shady. He had some sort of pocket knfie in his hoodie. I knew if I stay any longer with this man I'd be either be badly injured or even fucking dead. So after quite a struggle with him to leave my collar I finally twist his arm and punch him in the face and run for my life. He even runs after me with his knife in him. It was probably the fastest I ever covered 500m in my life from the main road to my flat.
However since the main door of my building was unlocked this guy got into my building and saw my door closing. He comes to my door and aggressively starts beating at the door. If I hadn't backed the door with my body weight it'd had been broken. I finally called 100 and told the operator that someone was trying get into my room while my phone was on speaker. As soon as that guy heard this he left the building and went away. I am still sitting at my door in fear that he might come back while typing this post 
I don't mind about the money I lost but everything else was just so much scary idk how to express it in words.

It's really fucking true, your dick takes you to the places you won't dare to go with a machine gun.