SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: SERIOUS - My ex assaulted me physically after he got me pregnant
DATE: 2024-04-13
SCORE: 17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1c2j2ug/serious_my_ex_assaulted_me_physically_after_he/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’m sorry for the long paragraphs in advance. my ex(then 17, now 23)and I(then 14, now 20) were dating for 5 years. I was naive and young when I met him. I was 14 and he was 17. I was in another country and he was in India. We met online and what started as a friendship, turned into love when he confessed that he has feelings for me. I liked him too but I was unsure of our future because of the distance. He told me to move to India and made me tell my parents. He told me he would be with me if I move to India. He potrayed that he really cared for me and I fell for it. I was deprived of love from my parents since the beginning and I just felt like I found my person, my soulmate. I made him the centre of my world.

I came to India, despite my parents opposing, I joined 10th and started to meet him often at my place as I wasn’t allowed to go out. He was in his 12th and we clearly had agreed to the fact that we will have engage in sex after we get married as I wanted to preserve my virginity for my marriage. To which even he obliged in the beginning but after few months, when we were 
making out he asked me if we can have sex, to which I say yes as he promised to marry me. 

after one year I find out that he’s been cheating on me, he tells me it will never happen again and asks forgiveness. I come to know again that he has slept with someone else and I get furious and try to ask his friends for more information, he then slaps me and argues with me saying I spoilt his friendship between his friends because they snitched on him. He kept torturing me day and night for the same and blaming me for spoiling his life.

I still stuck by him only and only because I wanted to marry him, I loved him genuinely and though he did me bad, I still see my whole world in him. He finally left me in November 2022. I was shattered as I never thought he would leave me, he left me for another girl. He cut off contact and blocked me everywhere 

I got into depression, started taking pills, smoking, alcohol abuse and everything to remain sane. He came back after a month and started sleeping with me, at this point I just wanted him in my life and I let him sleep with me. He got me pregnant and blamed me for enticing him. He didn’t even accompany me to a doctor. I had to go all by myself. I spent all my money on abortion and he didn’t even bother to be there for me. He hit me when I was pregnant.He made sure he kept it a secret that he’s still in touch with me, I told him I cannot sleep with him as I still have feelings for him. When I would text him, he would come home to beat me up.

He has hit my head several times to which I have fainted, twisted my hands, choked my neck that I couldn’t breathe, he has beaten me up and threatened to kill me with a knife. I have videos of him pointing the sharp object at me. It still keeps going on. We both are law students studying in the same college, I’m in 3rd year and he’s in his final year. he’s already interning under a lawyer, no one knows this side of him. I have all the videos and pictures of the abuse and bleeding of wounds. 

And he’s happy while I’m popping my anti depressants. I am a fool that I believed he would marry me. I feel so guilty for moving to another country for him. I feel so guilty for losing my virginity to him. I feel so suicidal that I want to end it all. He told me that the lawyer under whom he’s practicing will defend him if I pursue legal action against him. He has also threatened me that he will murder me if I harm his reputation. Please help me out. I’m just 20, I’m not in a financial and emotional state to fight this battle, can I proceed legally once I secure a job? I have scars all over my body and I am feeling so helpless.