SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Are our own US companies to blame for all these foreign internet scams killing the internet?
DATE: 2024-02-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1anfkj5/are_our_own_us_companies_to_blame_for_all_these/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am definitely not on the scammer's side when I am saying all of this, I have to wade through all their ridiculous crap constantly just like the rest of us . It is killing the internet by filling every single thing you try to do with people being deceptive and trying to scam people. I read a post discussing call centers in India dedicated to scamming people in the U.S., so I decided to research it a little to see what I could find. Reddit has a thousands of posts about this subject, both from people in India talking among themselves, and from people here talking about India. I get the impression from your post that you think India's call centers are being given a gift by giving them these call center contracts. But they are being given this business because they have accepted rates that similar quality centers anywhere else in the world are unwilling to accept. The call centers require excellent English language skills (okay thats funny, but its what I read) and not always, but often require that they have engineering or computer related education and experience. The pay at these centers is so low that the companies have to hire their employees from other countries to staff their centers. And then I see posts from people in India discussing these scam type call centers. They almost always mention that the work is unethical and I think they have a lot of internal conflicts about doing this type of work that seems to lead to mental breakdowns, but many see it as the only available work that is available for their skillsets that provides a wage they can live on. The pay at these centers they say is very high, but they come with very long hours, very few days off, and they talk about how stressful and demanding the scam call centers are. They talk about how they hate the jobs, there are a lot of suicides and mental breakdowns. The majority of the posts are from people looking for alternative jobs, but all of the replies keep saying there is nothing else available that pays enough to support them. And its not just in India, they seem to be behind Nigeria and Ghana, where again, American companies prefer to outsource their call centers as well. I was also surprised to see that in the lists I was seeing the United States was always on the list of my searches for "what countries have the most internet scammers" So if that is the case, do you think that means our own American companies being largely to blame for these scammers that are literally killing the internet. I can't decide. I think these scammers are quickly gridlocking the internet as a whole, but I don't see any talk of solutions that have been effective at curbing it in any way. I would like to hear alternative points of view if anyone else has done any research on this subject, or if anyone knows of good and recent studies or articles concerning this subject. No need though for personal opinions with no basis in fact. Everybody agrees I think that it really sucks and needs to be fixed, no need repeating it.