SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Satisfying revenge on a scammer
DATE: 2024-05-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1cz0m9d/satisfying_revenge_on_a_scammer/

--- POST TEXT ---

Although I use a cell, I still have a land line for a captioning phone for my deaf wife. I's an old number we've had for years and it gets TONS of calls. I searched online and ran across a site with info from a guy who said he had once been someone who made such calls and offered several tips on how to deal with them. The one suggestion that caught my attention was to not give the caller any info but keep him talking for as long as possible, then ask to speak with his supervisor and tell him you're not interested and please take your number off their auto dialer. Normally I never answer this phone and let the calls go to the answering machine. On this particular day I picked it up just to see what the scam was. The caller had an Indian accent and with the background noise it was obvious he was in a call center. he said he was with Visa and wanted to help lower the interest rates on my outstanding debt. He said he sees that I have about $13,000 outstanding and If I give him my credit card number starting with 4, we can get things set up. So, it surprised me at first because I actually did have around that amount on my credit cards. I asked him again who he was with and he just said Visa. Now as far as I knew, Visa cards come from various lending institutions and not Visa in general. I determined this was a scam and decided to try the idea from the website I visited. I kept asking him questions and he would just come back to "please give me your card number starting in 4". After about 10 minutes of this I decided to move to the next step. I asked him if I could speak with his supervisor and he cheerfully said "Of course!". Queue the Indian Supervisor. "Hello Sir! What can I do for you today?" I said I'm not interested in working with your company, please remove my number from your dialing app. His response was priceless. "Kiss my A\*\* you MF'er" and hung up. So, I figured yeah, that was a scam and i got to scam him out of his time costing him potential scam income. It was quite amusing. 
.