SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My father has been scammed and manipulated for half a year?!
DATE: 2025-01-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1i5yrag/my_father_has_been_scammed_and_manipulated_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am not 100% how it went down, I going to ask my dad more details, however its unlikely he'll tell me. It might be vague for now, sorry.

Background info: My dad's quite gullible, but I think all this happened because he's very desperate. He wants to support his family financially and he's failed in doing so. time's ticking for him and he's very desperate to find a way to make money quick for us.

Anyways, so 7 months ago, he was talking to these people on WhatsApp, and he had to fly out to Dubai for "business". During the first month, two random guys approached him on the street and began talking about some gold business. They took him out to dinner, was very nice to him, befriended him, and pitched the idea of "BIG POTENTIAL, BIG MONEY, GOLD BUSINESS". Anyways, dad told us he would extend his stay because he thinks he can make a lot of money with these guys. My family knew it was a scam, we told him over and over, but he's stubborn and desperate. They promised him he would make lots of money if he did some things. Throughout the months, he contacted me, my mom, and other family members for several thousands of dollars. He never explained why, but I'm assuming it's what the scammers told him. He made us send the money to these people's emails and him. Throughout these months, he also had to fly out to other countries like India, and Australia, to "collect gold" for these people. 7 months later, he came back home. With nothing but DEEPSHIT.

During the rare Facetime calls we had. He looked so tired, and sometimes I heard sketchy people talking in the back. It's just overall depressing, 7 months wasted, manipulated to work for these scammers. 

Hes back home and I still see him talking to sketchy people on whatsapp. Always about some business thing. And asked me to borrow money again.

If I find out more info Ill write it down. Not sure what I want from this post... What kind of scam is this? what do I do. He has to face the true facts but, he's too stubborn.