SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Got scammed by local tour agency
DATE: 2024-05-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1cmzd69/got_scammed_by_local_tour_agency/

--- POST TEXT ---

My family (12 PPL and 2 infants) planned to go on a tour to temple towns in the south (Madurai, Tirunelveli, Thiruchendur) so we rented out a 13 seater Force Tempo traveler from a local tour agency in Chennai.

The rent went something like this, 21Rs per kilometer (incl. Diesel)+ Toll charges + Driver charges (driver bata). We were so particular to the owner that a well maintained vehicle should be alloted for us. 

Initially the driver seemed like a nice person and mixed with our family very well. He was very flexible to our demands and had a very good knowledge about the places we were visiting.

But something felt off when he started driving the vehicle under 50kmph as we were approaching our destination. We dismissed our suspicion as it was getting dark and the roads werent that wide.

But me and my cousin had a strong intuition that something was not right with the vehicle. 

1. We noticed that the driver was shifting gears between 1st, 2nd, 4th only, 3rd and 5th seemed to be not working properly.

2. On the 3rd day of our trip, Another issue popped up when we were trying to climb a steep road, a weird smell started emanating, probably a worn out clutch plate. The driver suggested that we take a break, let the vehicle cool down. Even though we were behind schedule, we agreed with him and took a 1 hr break.

3. While returning back, near uludhurpet, it was 8 pm, the gear box jammed and was stuck in 4th gear. We were so pissed but couldn't blame the driver for something unexpected. When we suggested calling some local mechanics to take a look, he was so firm that this issue can only be looked in the service center and local mechanics would not have the tools to fix it. We reached out to the owner of the agency, to which he responded, "the driver is experienced, he can safely bring you back home". 

We didn't have any choice and continued our journey, we asked the tour agency to send a back up vehicle from Chennai to meet us midway and pick us up. But to everyone's dismay, We only got the back up vechicle after we reached vandalur. We argued with the owner that we will pay only for kilometers till vandalur and he agreed reluctantly.

The back up vechicle was a poorly maintained mini bus had similar issues like the tempo traveller
It was already 2 am when we reached our home in avadi. We asked the driver to drop us at Avadi and another family at porur.

But after reaching Avadi, the driver showed his true colors. The driver started demanding that we settle the remaining amount ( we had already paid a certain amount while refueling throughout the trip). We were already tired, and suggested that the remaining amount would be some 2000 to 3000 rs only, we will pay you the next day after going through all the expenses.

The driver who was with us for 3 days, whom we didn't blame even though we had the worst experience, started abusing and calling us names. We even thought of paying him a separate amount outside the agreed amount for bringing us safely.
Everything came crashing down when he showed his true face, He gave us a cooked up estimate and demanded that we pay it on the same day. 
He also had added 4 days driver charges (now we understood why he drove slowly from the first day) 

We called the owner and told him that we are tired and exhausted and we have to go through the estimates before we pay. Also we were yet to receive the report of toll charges. The owner paid no heed to our demands and suggested that we pay the driver(without the report of toll charges) Only after we started to fight back, he agreed that we can pay for the toll charges after he sends us the report and
 
1. We still had to pay the driver charges 4 days 
2. The backup mini bus kilometres would also be considered
3. There would be no concession since they "brought us home safely"

Sorry about the lengthy rant,
But I felt these touring and vehicle rental agencies do these scams on unexpecting customers. Please suggest what we could have done differently in such situations