SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Zomato isnt providing refund for an order which got cancelled insantly automatically (It has been 4 months)
DATE: 2022-11-02
SCORE: 44
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/yk8wfq/zomato_isnt_providing_refund_for_an_order_which/

--- POST TEXT ---

On the evening of July 8, my roommate and I placed an order for some pizzas and burgers. (bcz we were hungry and mess food is unbearable)

My order was cancelled automatically but money was deducted, my roommate insisted that I make another order and not worry about the money cuz Zomato will refund me soon. So thats what I did.

I didnt receive any refund or any kind of notification that my refund was being processed. So I opened a ticket in Zomato app and enquired about the same. I was told that I will receive all my money in 7-10 working days. guess what happened? NO REFUND! thats what happened. (I must confess, I forgot about this refund thing and moved on with life. But then I got poor and was reminded about this refund money) 

After about a month I called Zomato customer care and asked about why I didnt receive anything yet. I was told that if there was a refund, it must have been processed by now. I was advised to contact the payment service I used to pay for that order. I used the "Slice" card to pay for it. It is like a credit card service which gives 1% cashback on every spend and sometimes gives extra discount on Zomato/Swiggy/Dominos/etc. 

I called them and even mailed them, told the entire story and provided them with everything I could. The email exchange I had with Zomato, the screenshot of cancelled order, the transaction ID from Slice app and Zomato app separately.

Recently I was contacted by Slice and got told that my order went thru and food was delivered. There is no refund to issue here. For proof of food delivery they attached an image file with the email. That proof was of the 2's order which I placed moments after 1's got cancelled.

Can I sue them for fraud or something?? Or is there anything else I should do. (I am losing my patience and I've had enough)