SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Hello this is the IRS
DATE: 2014-06-07
SCORE: 19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/27jnoc/hello_this_is_the_irs/

--- POST TEXT ---

I recently had another call from “THE TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT AT THE WINDOWS COMPANY” telling me (in a heavy Indian accent) that I had problems with viruses on my computer. I asked if this was why it took so long to “turn on”. He said yes and asked if I was in front of my computer and I said no and that I would have to get it and turn it on. I then kept him on the line waiting for it to “turn on”. After 20 minutes I came back on and said it crashed and I would have to start over. He hung up. To bad, that was the third time they called and I was enjoying myself.

The other day I got a new one. The call came from “UNAVAILABLE” and the caller said he was with the IRS and they said I owed them money and I needed to call a 202 (Washington DC) number and speak to his boss Kevin Brown. Now this took a bit because I couldn’t understand a lot of what he was saying and pretended to understand less (he said his name was David, I called him Edward). He also told me that this was a courtesy call and that the police had been notified.

Obviously I knew this was a scam but Google is my friend and I double checked and found lots of instances of this scam. Even the use of the name Kevin Brown. For the record the IRS says they would never contact you via phone. Now I know I should have let it drop but I figured for the price of a call to DC I could have some fun. This is the conversation as I remember it.

KEVIN BROWN: IRS. Kevin Brown speaking.(Heavy Indian accent)

ME: Charlie Brown please.

KB: This is Kevin Brown. We are looking for John Smith (Not my real name.)

ME: Speaking. What’s your name?

KB: Kevin Brown.

ME: Oh I thought the other guy said Charlie Brown. He’s was hard to understand. What do you want?

KB: You have committed tax fraud and you owe us a large sum of money.

ME: No I don’t. You sure you have the right John Smith?

KB: Is the last four numbers of your Social Security number 1234

ME: Hold on. (30 second pause) Yeah that’s it. But I don’t owe you…

KB: Stop speaking (angry voice) You have committed tax fraud…

At this point he told me that I owed the IRS $5265. That the police have been notified and the prosecutors were preparing a case against me. My credit cards, bank account have been frozen and they would seize any property I owned. Also my Social Security number has been black listed (?). This went on for about 3 minutes. I tried to interrupt him at one point and he told me to “shut up.” When he was done he told me I could speak now,

ME: Charlie, how do you expect me to pay you if you froze my bank accounts.

Pause

KB: I didn’t say they were frozen but that they would be frozen.

ME: But I don’t owe you any money. (Trying to sound whiny but I am not a good actor).

KB: Do not argue with me. I will tell the police to arrest you.

ME: Don’t do that. (long pause). OK send me something in writing and I will give it to my accountant.

KB: No it is too late for that. You must…

OK here it got a little confusing. He said I could wire transfer the money or if I didn't have the cash I think he wanted me to use my (frozen) credit cards to put money on a prepaid credit card. Well my supper was ready so I thought I would end this

ME: Am I supposed to believe the US Government uses prepaid cards? 

KB: (Shouting) You don’t believe I am the IRS. I will send the police right now.

ME: Which police are those asshole. The Bombay flying squad..

KB: Motherfu…

I hung up.

Hope they call back.