1. On 30th June 2024 I had received payment (22500/-) link to do the payment for AIS(Azure Integration Services ) training. Below is the proof after that had received the credentials to login into their LMS portal where all self-paced training recordings are supposed to be available . 2. There were no self-paced training recordings available when I logged in. After multiple complaints, what’s app messages, calls to the relationship manager(Shruti.[protected]@HenryHarvin.in) and customer support I finally got the LMS portal updated on 9th of July 2024. 3. The way I was being dealt with and by seeing their way of response I was suspicious about the quality of videos. Because I have already taken online training classes from other institutes like(simplelearn.com) they resolve issues in 2 hours. I felt henry Harvin relation manager was just buying time to arrange some videos. All this has been handled by Shruti.[protected]@HenryHarvin.in, the relationship manager. I believe she has pulled me into the scam by making false promises on quality of course and service of Henry Harvin. 4. FYI: I am working in IT industry since last 10 years. I had already done some self-study on the course. Have taken Udemy online training etc. The only reason I decided to register for Henry Harvin was the detailed nature of course content as par the brochure of the course. So, its not easy to fool me with any fake/absurd videos which even a college student will figure out. To confirm my above suspicion on 9th of July 2024 I went through all videos and within 20 mins I figured out how badly they are trying to scam me. I raised this complaint with the Relationship manager immediately. The relationship manager to my surprise stopped picking my call. I wrote multiple complaints to her on what’s app. She now after lot of following up simply asked me to reach out to the customer care instead. As if her part of the job was done which started and ended with customer acquisition. Though I got a similar treatment from the customer care, I kept calling and they kept ignoring. For Layman to understand how the SCAM videos on Henry Harvin LMS portals were, example below (I have asked for training on Maharashtra History and I have paid the amount for that. In the training videos instructor is talking about Bihar’s capital is Jammu which is a dessert in Africa. ) Few videos are empty /blank. Other video the instructor is trying to talk garbage of 10 mins trying hard to stretch till 30 mins . The first video topic headline says Azure integration testing. It has no relevance to the course I have taken. If proof required, I have their Henry Harvin course brochure with me which nowhere mentions azure integration testing. Its not even a valid topic as per the Course Brochure leave alone the content of the videos the instructor is blabbering something which will not make any sense or of no use to even a school student. Note: The course brochure has been shared 5. So from Day 1 till 19th of July 2024. I have written many mails to customer support, Called multiple times to multiple people (Relationship manager, Account manager, Customer support manager to their number). Written multiple what’s app messages. Called customer care multiple times. My issues were not addressed. I was always asked to wait till EOD every day. Even I have requested and mentioned them many times I am a working Mother. I do not have so much time with the kind of schedule and stress I am dealing with every day. Kindly provide me resolution or Refund. 6. I have asked the manager via WhatsApp on refund policy detail, I have asked the refund policy detail to manager on phone call as well . Even on customer support call I have asked the refund policy detail. As the refund Policy detail was not shared with me and I was not able to find the policy detail on LMS portal or on their website. 7. After all, above efforts still I was not provided any resolution, my portal was still reflecting same absurd/fake/scam videos. I was not given any other classes or any resolution or any reply on refund policy. Neither any of my queries or complaints were answered. (To lawyer, please check email to Henry Harvin in attachment). In an attempt to make myself heard I wrote my experience review on Google. 8. After writing google review finally I got call from their Social media manager or some manager (Shaddab) called . He assured me he will listen to my concerns and provide me resolution. I asked for refund as I have lost all trust on the institute, Henry Harvin India, as sequence of events I have gone through as mentioned above . He said He will get back to me. Again next day no response to my calls. I thought he is just another manager who is going to waste my time and keep harassing me mentally . 9. Third day Shaddab called me on 16th July 2024 Saying management will not give Refund . We can give you classes . I said ok fine but even my time is more value able as I am compromising my Mother time here . And seeing the kind of recording you have provided I cant sit with such kind of instructor for 2-4 hrs daily will be waste of my valueable time and also it will be a form of mental harassment . Cause I am a Industry expert already some random guy cant gibe me some fake topic saying me that it is Azure integration services course .Kindly give me details of the Instructor and his experience . If you need to understand how the course should be I will give you Udemy training links you will understand how professional training instructor are supposed to be . (That Udemy course I had bought for 600 rs/-) .IF the instructor does not have experience in relevant course he cant give training to another Industry expert, and you guys have charged me 22500/- for this . Also Kindly reply on my mail I had been asking for reply to everyone . Share me the reason why the refund is not possible on mail. I had asked me when Can you get back to me? Cause you guys don’t pick up my call . Please pick up my call . He said I will share reply on mail within few hours and get back to you on class schedule and trainer details bye next day on 17th July 2024. Till 18th July I got no call back no reply on mail . I again tried calling him multiple times. 10. And I saw one mail on 27th July 2024 Henry Harvin has sent me a legal notice asking defamation charges of 32 lakhs and to delete google review . I perceive this as a threat and a way of intimidating me as I have not written any wrong information on google . Till 18th July I had not received any refund policy detail neither my issues has been resolved . No new recordings on their learning portal, No new class has been scheduled, no instructor details has been shared . But they sent legal notice . 11. On 18th againt I have asked for reply on mail why my requests are not fulfilled, why no refund is given and why no one is responding to my mail Nor I am given any reason why you guys are not able to do any of these . 12. On 19th July finally one reply to my mail came (To lawyer I have attached the mail) . They have shared the refund policy and again they have asked what we can do for you . Which I have been telling the from Day 1 of the call with multiple calls to managers, customer support, multiple mails. They are asking me again and before sharing the policy of refund they have sent me legal notice on the basis that I have written google review after knowing the refund policy and also the institute has continuously tried to give me resolution . Why cant I see any resolution on mail or message or on LMS portal. The allegations are all false . 13. Regarding Course fee Shruti Rathor the RM has mentioned they are giving me discount on Gold membership which I never asked for . I had asked for slef paced training for which she has charged me 22500/- rs . I can see the same amount on the LMS portal also for the training alone. How is this “discounted course” as mentioned in the refund policy( No refund for discounted course ). I don’t believe the self paced training was discounted. The gold membership they have given discount on . Leave alone the membership services they fail to give me the self-paced training itself for which I have made the payment. Find below Mail from Henry Harvin fees and screenshot I have taken fees for Self-paced training. I need to understand how my self-paced training course falls under discounted category and as per the 7 days refund policy the videos were updated after 10 days How would I raise request for refund before 10 days . Anyway, the policy was not shared with me till 19th July by Henry Harvin. Note: They have been addressing me as Malti in multiple mails . I have asked the customer support to correct it . I am not sure if they have taken care of it . Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)