SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: How I got my money back from an international scammer
DATE: 2025-02-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1ihiqpc/how_i_got_my_money_back_from_an_international/

--- POST TEXT ---

I see multiple posts about people losing money to a scam where they lose money but no service was provided. The same happened to me but internationally when I was traveling across Europe. Money was sent from my Indian account to an Estonian account and I thought I lost it forever. 

But I am happy that I got it within 40 days since the scam happened. 

How I lost money: When I was trying to book an Anne Frank Haus ticket in Germany online, Google had a fake link which was at the top and I ended up paying 18k instead of expected 1.6k for the ticket. I lost money after entering OTP when I was using my debit card 

Steps followed and events that unfolded:
1. Sent a mail to the bank within 10 minutes of the transaction highlighting the money lost.
2. They asked me around 10 questions which included details of the link where I clicked. I had stored screenshots of search result, url of the fake website, url of the fake gateway and sent it to them.
3. The bank asked me to get an FIR and cyber crime acknowledgement number but since I was travelling outside India, cyber crime website was not loading and it was delayed by 7 days.
4. Visa denied the refund telling I had given OTP but I still kept following up in mail thread.
5. But bank raised a dispute with the merchant as to service not provided. In such cases, the merchant has to prove and give records that service was provided. I highlighted to the bank multiple times that I was defrauded by a fake museum website.
6. I filed an FIR after coming back to India Post the cyber crime acknowledgement and sent it to the bank in the mail thread. 
7. Kept following up every 3 days and kept highlighting the fraudulent museum website. 
8. Received the money today and was really happy with the resolution.

TLDR: Always fight for the money you lost in frauds and scams, raise dispute telling service not provided and there is a high chance the merchant will lose if they are fraudulent. Many people don't take this step thinking it's tedious.