SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: RSS’ top decision-making body’s key meet begins in Haryana’s Samalkha
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-13
URL: https://theprint.in/india/rss-top-decision-making-bodys-key-meet-begins-in-haryanas-samalkha/2878006/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chandigarh, Mar 13 (PTI) A key three-day meet of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s top decision-making body began in Haryana’s Samalkha on Friday during which the expansion of RSS’s work over the last year and plans for the future will be discussed.
RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale inaugurated the meet.
BJP chief Nitin Nabin and presidents and other senior functionaries of its 32 sister organisations, among others, will attend the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS).
Show Full Article
From the RSS’ organisational perspective, ABPS is the apex decision-making body of the Sangh.
On the Naxal-affected regions, the Sangh noted the situation is gradually returning to normalcy thanks to the government’s efforts, while in Manipur too the situation has stabilised.
About Bangladesh, Sangh urged the government there to undertake whatever efforts are necessary to safeguard the rights and interests of Hindus.
As this year marks the centenary of the Sangh, the meeting will include detailed discussions on major programmes and campaigns organised as part of the celebrations. These include Grihasampark (mass contact programme), Hindu Sammelan, youth conferences, gatherings of prominent citizens and social harmony meetings.
Sah Sarkaryavah (joint general secretary), RSS, C R Mukund, who addressed a press conference in Samalkha, Panipat, along with Sunil Ambekar, RSS’ Akhil Bharatiya Prachar Pramukh, said this year marks the centenary year of the Sangh.
During this centenary year, special emphasis is being placed on the expansion of ‘Shakhas’ and on public outreach campaigns. In Kerala, over 55,000 Muslim and 54,000 Christian homes were covered under the outreach initiative.
He talked about the ‘panch parivartan’ initiative of RSS which focuses on social harmony, preservation of family values, environmental protection, selfhood and self-reliance, and adherence to legal, civic, and constitutional duties.
He said they are also seeing positive impact in society of “Sabbhav Ghosti” and the “Pramukh Nagrik Ghostis”.
The RSS has reached out to more than 10 crore homes under “Grihasampark” (mass contact programme), he said. More than 3 lakh villages have been covered.
In Kerala, they reached out to several households including Muslims, Christians and also those belonging to individuals with communist leanings.
We received a warm welcome everywhere we went. Our Swayamsevaks reached out to 55,000 Muslim and 54,000 Christian homes, he said.
The Sangh also reached tribal regions through its public outreach initiative.
Hindu Sammelans have been held at more than 36,000 places in the country and more are going to take place incuding in urban, rural areas and remote corners, Mukund said.
Generally, there is discussion and deliberation regarding the state of affairs in the country in ‘Pratinidhi Sabha’ meeting, a matter which the Sah-Karyavah also mentioned in his “prativedan” (report), Mukund said.
On the Naxal-affected regions, the Sangh noted the situation is gradually returning to normalcy thanks to the government’s efforts; therefore, the Sangh has welcomed the initiative by the government.
On Manipur, Mukund said political stability is coming; moreover, and perhaps even more significantly, the ongoing effort wherein individuals from all communities and castes, along with prominent figures, come together to deliberate collectively is yielding results, an endeavor in which the Sangh, too, has a role.
He said, as we all know, a difficult situation arose in Bangladesh, one that persists to this day. Therefore, the Sangh urges the government there to undertake whatever efforts are necessary to safeguard the rights and interests of Hindus.
Asked about the West Asia conflict, he said the crisis should end soon, this is what we and the Indian society believe.
Meanwhile, Mukund said that there are two main dimensions to various initiatives spanning the centenary year–one is organizational expansion, an area where we have been focusing significant attention on ‘shakha’ expansion, and the other is our concerted effort to engage with society, foster harmony within it, and mobilize all the virtuous forces of the community to dedicate themselves to the work of social transformation, and public awakening.
Our ongoing endeavour involves engaging prominent citizens across various localities to serve as key community leaders, Mukund said.
To foster harmony within society, we are collaborating at the block level with local community leaders, heads of spiritual organisations, and heads of religious centres, he said.
“Together, we aim to deliberate upon and implement positive initiatives that bring about necessary social reforms. Specifically, the Sangh has identified five transformations. Five key themes representing the changes currently desired within society,” he said.
Earlier on Wednesday, Ambekar had said the three-day meeting will review the activities of the Sangh during 2025-26 and present reports on significant initiatives carried out across various regions.
The meeting is being attended by RSS senior office-bearers, along with members of the national executive body. A total of 1,487 ‘karyakartas’ will participate, including elected representatives and key office-bearers from various parts.
In addition, presidents, general secretaries, and organising secretaries of 32 affiliated organisations will also be present. PTI SUN VSD NB NB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.