SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: TN polls: Vijay releases list of TVK candidates, leader to contest from Perambur, Trichy East
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-29
URL: https://theprint.in/india/tn-polls-vijay-releases-list-of-tvk-candidates-leader-to-contest-from-perambur-trichy-east/2891597/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chennai, Mar 29 (PTI) TVK chief Vijay on Sunday named his party’s candidates for all 234 Assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu for the April 23 elections, announcing his electoral debut from two seats, including Perambur in Chennai, considered a DMK stronghold.
In his maiden electoral battle, Vijay will also contest from Tiruchirappalli (East) in central Tamil Nadu.
“It will be C Joseph Vijay from these two seats,” the actor-turned-politician announced emphatically amid loud cheers at a meeting of party functionaries held at a five-star hotel in the city.
Show Full Article
On the occasion, he also named and introduced nominees for the remaining 232 seats, including members of his core team.
Reiterating that the electoral contest was between his “people’s alliance TVK” and the “Stalin-led alliance”, he described the ruling DMK-led bloc as a “patch-up”.
“I have selected candidates who will stand with the people,” he said.
“They are not mere ‘vetpalargal’ (candidates), but ‘makkal kappalargal’ (people’s protectors),” Vijay said, urging voters to extend wholehearted support to them.
He particularly exhorted Gen Z voters to turn out in large numbers for the party’s ‘whistle’ symbol and encourage their families to back TVK candidates.
“This is a generational electoral battle,” he said, claiming the contest was primarily between the DMK and TVK.
Outlining the qualities of an MLA, Vijay said they must possess impeccable integrity and should not “loot” the people.
Unveiling a youth-focused agenda, which he termed a “guarantee”, Vijay promised several measures, including steps towards a drug-free Tamil Nadu and collateral-free loans of up to Rs 20 lakh for students from class 12 to PhD.
His vision for a drug-free Tamil Nadu includes strict laws to curb the inflow and circulation of narcotics, community policing, and the establishment of anti-drug clubs.
“Anti-drug clubs will be set up in all schools and colleges across the state to create awareness about the harmful effects of drugs and prevent abuse,” he said.
Vijay also promised a fixed recruitment calendar for all state government jobs, to be regulated under the proposed Tamil Nadu Recruitment Accountability and Transparency Act (TRATA).
“To ensure adherence to timelines, the entire recruitment cycle—from TNPSC and TRB/TNEB notifications to appointments—will be completed within 365 days by law,” he said.
The guarantees also include “employment delay financial assistance”. Under this, unemployed graduates aged 29 and above will receive Rs 4,000 per month, while diploma holders will receive Rs 2,500 under the Youth Welfare Fund.
He said his government would facilitate five lakh internship opportunities annually in collaboration with private industries and MSMEs.
“Graduates will receive Rs 10,000 per month, and ITI/diploma holders Rs 8,000. This will reduce hiring costs for industries and encourage employment of local youth,” he said.
Under the Vetri Entrepreneur Scheme, aimed at promoting ethical entrepreneurship, collateral-free loans of up to Rs 25 lakh will be provided.
Other proposals include a Tamil Employment Credit System, under which private companies ensuring 75 per cent local employment will receive a 2.5 per cent SGST subsidy, a 5 per cent subsidy on electricity bills, and priority in government procurement.
Stating that the current agenda is focused on youth, Vijay said his party is preparing separate policy frameworks for farmers, fishermen, government employees, teachers, weavers, and labourers.
Vijay also introduced the party’s Puducherry candidates for the April 9 Assembly elections in the Union Territory. The candidate list had been released earlier.
Meanwhile, around 500 people gathered at the entrance of the hotel venue, alleging a lack of transparency in candidate selection.
The protesters, mostly from Vellore, claimed that long-time loyalists were “ignored” in favour of recent entrants.
“We filed our candidacy petitions, and at least one among us should have been interviewed. We request Thalapathy (Vijay) to interact with us and review the candidate selection process,” Prabhu from K V Kuppam in Vellore told PTI.
Meanwhile, Rhevanth Charan, the TVK candidate from Maduravoyal, said the situation was “favourable” for the party.
“Maduravoyal is a vast constituency with around 3.64 lakh voters after SIR. It looks promising for us, as neither the AIADMK nor the DMK has done much for the constituency so far. The current MLA has been visible only in the past three months due to elections,” said Charan, Chennai Zone Coordinator (Advocates Wing), speaking to PTI Videos. PTI JR SSK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.