SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Faced a fraudulent transaction on newly bought credit card
DATE: 2023-12-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/18t1eto/faced_a_fraudulent_transaction_on_newly_bought/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone 
I want to share about a false bank transaction that has happened on my newly purchased RBL bank credit card via Bajaj Finserv on doing an emi on my tv purchase, for extra cash back. Soon after purchase, I started receiving calls from RBL bank. I received continuous calls by multiple numbers, some were genuine and some were fake but at that point of time I thought all of them are real and are just troubling me to upgrade my card to a better version. In that period I received some calls which were related to activation of my credit card.
I already have one card which did not require me to put in any efforts to activate or generate pin, the bank did it itself when I went to the branch. So without having any idea about what card activation is, I thought that this is a necessary procedure that I will have to follow. I received a call again. He knew my credit card limit. He knew the version of card that I purchased. He knew the first few digits of the card as well I thought it to be a genuine call and upon he asking the whole Card number I gave that he asked me the expiry as well and I gave until now everything was fine but then he asked me the CVV number as well. I was confused yet he compelled me by saying that this is the only one time that I have to give after this particular call, nowhere I should give this I was convinced as I was just too busy into something else then he said that this there will be an OTP generated to have updates in your bank account to set the card limit some amount for online Shopping and some amount for Shopping off-line, I was again convinced because the OTP that I received were about updating the Card settings. 
Later that day I received a message for OTP for the transaction of the same amount that he had asked me to set the limit of which I did not see at that point of time so obviously I didn’t share that. I also received a message about the debit which I again missed but when my Credit Card statement arrived. I saw a transaction of around ₹25,000.
I know I did something very stupid as I was so busy on those days and I overlooked I was overconfident, I was careless but I really need help right now to deal with this. I have told the bank they have blocked my card and lodged a complain, and I denied them if I gave any OTP or CVV number of the card .
The bank has said that they will enquire and let me know in 120 business working days and they have also told me to pay the bill of the credit card as the interest amount will be too high. In the case if I am declared as a defaulter the amount will stay with them, in the case bank is at fault, I will receive the money back.
I don’t want to lose money, idk what card activation is and I have not generated the pin of the card yet.
What should I do as next steps after telling the cyber team n bank, should I just wait
Will bank ever say it’s their mistake even if they r at fault too, how did they got otp for transaction when I just gave otp for updating and there was a separate otp on message for transaction which I didn’t give

Really need help guys