SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: I feel that crime against women has risen by a huge margin in the city ! (Please add safety advice and tips in comments too)
DATE: 2024-08-01
SCORE: 146
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1ehg9m2/i_feel_that_crime_against_women_has_risen_by_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

There has been around 6 rape cases in the past week. 

I feel absolutely disgusted. What has happened to Hyderabad, I am not comparing it to any other city but being a IT hub, Hyderabad employees a lot of independent women, the public/corporate transport at the IT hub is a joke/non existent.

Safety tips for both women and men:

1) Dial 181 whenever you even slightly feel in danger. Don’t fear if it feels to be a false alarm.
100 also works but 181 is better for women. 

2) Always share your live location(on WhatsApp)/Find My(if using iOS) with your family members when travelling in or outside city.

3) Always message before you start from workplace/home. And also message when you’re halfway on the route. For parents, call your children time to time especially when you expect them to be travelling. 

4) Carry a, pepper spray. Check its expiry date from time to time, yes, they do expire. 

5) Parents/adult siblings should open up a little with their children, many of the drunk driving accidents can be avoided if children can inform parents that they will be drinking that night or going out with their friends. But due to the fear, and the rest is a slippery slope.
I personally have achieved that point of openness with my parents and with my siblings. 

6) Colleagues are colleagues, don’t blindly trust or develop one on newly met people. Especially, idiots that “confess” their love to you, don’t share your house location/personal phone number/email etc with the ones that you don’t even know properly. 
I have multiple friends who are Senior HRs in corporates around the globe, cases of sexual harassment are always complained when it’s too late. 

7) Trust Nobody. Except your direct family. 

8) Keep reading news, let it be bad/good. Keep reading news to keep yourself informed and aware of new ways of scams, kidnapping, drugging etc.

9) Parents, please monitor the web activity of your children who are not adults, child lock whatever is possible, don’t discuss/watch +16 rated content when the kids are present. Yes, you cannot prevent wrong influence when they’re at school, but a healthy talk with the teachers of your kids school once in a while helps too. And be open when it comes to talking to your kid, understand that the world is changing faster than we can imagine it, and the kids will open up too. 

10) Sex education and consent should also be taught to teens (along with good touch, bad touch, stranger danger), the education system is not going to change any time soon, so parents are expected to have that talk. It’s helpful for both the parents and kids.