SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Tree Removal Contractors Used in Possible Scam?
DATE: 2023-05-19
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/13lluld/tree_removal_contractors_used_in_possible_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

This evening we have had three tree removal contractors show up to our house looking to remove or provide an estimate for a tree removal in our front yard. However I did not call this in and do not need the service. They are all legitimate mom-and-pop local services.

The first instance I chocked up to an honest mistake of wrong address and sent them on their way. The second instance, I was shown text messages with the person who called it in. I still figured it was an honest mistake, until the texts back-and-forth shows that the person included a picture of our house. The picture in question was from our public real estate listing as it is currently for sale - but that meant all bets were off as far as it being an erroneous address. We attempted to call the person, but no answer. I left a voicemail asking, “what the hell?”. Called the realtor who hadn’t heard of this before. 

A third contractor showed up asking for the same “George”. Told him he was the third person tonight, and this time I grabbed pictures of the texts - 

 “Hello, I'm George [redacted common last name]: May I know if your company still offers tree removal service for homes Located at…”

“ I want the tree in front of my house to be cut down and hauled away . I would like to know if you will be able to go there to check around &amp; how soon will you get me an estimate?” (same picture included)

Asked about stump removal: “You we cut the tree down and grinding the stump”

Asked about how he found the contractor: “My wife send me your contact”

Asked what his budget is: “$1,000”

Asked to get on a phone call: “Kindly text only”

Contractor 3 thought this was strange, as there were a number of grammatical errors, a fishy name, and that the person would not answer the phone to discuss. Interestingly he came to the conclusion that they sounded East Indian. Having seen enough scammer videos, I have to agree. 

I called local PD to see what they thought. They’ve seen this once or twice with a bug removal service before but nothing they could do. 

So this has scam written all over it - but I don’t quite understand how. I imagine if I weren’t home, the contractor does the work, expects to get paid, but since the “owner” is not home, they go through some sort of fraudulent wire transfer or something? It just seems like way too many things would have to go “right” for this to work, when just a knock on the door or a homeowner present ruins it.

[edit 14h later with more info]
Another tree removal company showed up this morning. Same story and texts. I looked up the phone number and it’s registered to a TMobile Prepaid Account on a TMobile Tourist plan. The TMobile Tourist SIM looks like you can buy online and gets 3 weeks of service for $30, so I think it’s safe to assume foreign.