SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: FOOD DIGGER SCAM ALERT !
DATE: 2023-07-21
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/155pix4/food_digger_scam_alert/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello guys, I have seen a lot of posts here about Food Digger Scam running on various dating apps like Bumble, Tinder, Happn etc. I am also a victim of this scam on Happn, not once but twice and I lost more than 30,000 in 2 dates. Only after these 2 incidents, I came to know that it was actually a scam. I have created this post to safeguard the guys against these scams. I request all of those who were victims of this scam or just luckily escaped from getting fuc*ed to list the names of these Cafes here. Let's create a list with the city name to see where all these Cafes are running. I will list the name of my second date (1st I don't remember). Also I will list the names which I saw on some posts. Appreciate if you could also list such cafes names. 

1. The Heaven Box (Hauz Khas, Delhi) - my own date

2. Judge and Jury (Hudson Lane, GTB Nagar, Delhi)

3. Big Daddy (Karkardooma, Delhi)

4. Awarapan / Cafe Hooters or some nearby cafe (Satya Niketan, Delhi) -my first date , I don't clearly remember the name but I have the location

5. Cafe 69 (Satya Niketan)

6. Electro High Spirits Club (Rajouri Garden)

Also, I am listing some suspicious names I heard from a match on Happn , although I did not go there . I don't know they are also running this business or not. 

1. Sasy bear 

2. Lamaour

3. 736 

All 3 located in GTB Nagar, Delhi. Anybody heard similar names out of above 3 ?

Update on 24 July 23
So I went for a date with a girl at Sazy Bear. I was reluctant to go as this girl also showed interest in meeting on the very first day of match. She also convinced me to go to a particular cafe, although she told me about it before the plan (not like Food diggers who choose the cafe at the very end moment when we reach there). But still I was doubtful. I reached there 15 mins before, had a glimpse of the place, looked at the food and bar menu, talked to manager and I was somewhat satisfied with the place. Then she arrived . I got the same menu at the table which was for everybody else. We ordered a hookah , few beers and vodka shots. Also, a couple of starters. Then the bill came around 5000 (got a good discount paying online). I took a sigh of relief that this was a genuine date and I paid a reasonable bill. Returned happily back home.