SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: How to deal with scammy and rude rideshare drivers?
DATE: 2023-11-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/183zomu/how_to_deal_with_scammy_and_rude_rideshare_drivers/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello all,

I recently semi-moved back to Hyderabad to take care of my sick father. Hyderabad has changed a lot since I last visited almost a decade ago. This sub has been helpful to get advice and suggestions on a few things.

Yesterday was a first rude awakening realization that I should not trust everyone blindly. My father was discharged from the hospital near Shilparamam and we had to travel to Vanasthalipuram. I cannot drive in this traffic (yet!), so have been taking Uber everywhere which has been great. yesterday evening for some reason, it was very difficult to find a ride. 

Since I was unable to get anything on Uber or Ola, I downloaded Rapido and requested for a car. One "Captain", as they call their drivers, accepted the ride. I noticed that the license plate was different from what was shown in the app. The driver insisted that his other car was in the repair shop, and he was driving his second car. We got in and found that the car was extremely dirty. We didn't want to wait for another ride as my dad was just discharged and he was weak. We also have to nose tube feed him every 2 hours, so it was already getting late. 

The ride was showing 27 km with 65 minutes of ride time and Rs 813 fare. The driver insisted that he knew a route with less traffic that will reduce the ride time to less than an hour. He asked for Rs 100 more, and he said that he will drop us on the side of the road if we didnt agree. I agreed since my priority was to get home. He takes some looooong route that ended up taking 97 minutes and the cost came to Rs 1200. I was super pissed not because it costed more because I realized he scammed us into taking longer route. He saw my dad's condition as it was visible. He knew we were being picked up from the hospital. Yet, he chose to scam us. I was furious and refused to pay him the full amount. He started threatening us:

"merko maloom kya karna. merko maloom tum kahan rehte. mein jo karna vo kartoon." etc etc. I told him that I will call the police if he keeps threatening us. I gave him the originally estimated amount and asked him to get out. I was shocked as to how easy it is to be scammed. He even came out of his vehicle and started shouting as if to start a fight. Rapido has been useless in resolving the issue other than saying "we apologize for inconvenience". 

Should I report this to the local police station? I am afraid he might come back when I am not home. My parents are old and sick and can't deal with these maniacs. 

&amp;#x200B;