SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Lose your professional license scam
DATE: 2022-05-28
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/uz4zb1/lose_your_professional_license_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a healthcare professional. My front desk gets a phone call saying that the Division of Professional Regulation needs to speak to me and that it's urgent.

 verifies my name and says "our chief inspector needs to speak to you". Chief Inspector D'Millo (does that sound Italian, perhaps?) who has an Indian or Pakistani accent gets on. Asks how I am. Tells me that someone carrying ID that was possibly fake and in my name was caught at the Texas border with $800k of drugs. He asked me to write down his name and his badge number and the case number. He suggested that one of my staff might have stolen my identity and my DEA number for prescribing controlled substances.

Had me on the phone for a while... 10 minutes. I said "i need to finish up with the patient i left, how long will this take" "Oh, sir, this will take hours. Go and see the patient in your office now. Your patient comes first. How long will that take? i will hold on the line." he then tells me that i will need to cancel the rest of the day, all appointments, and to not tell my staff anything about the nature of the call. He tells me that I am entitled to legal representation.

I come back and check his phone number. It is the same as the main bureau number on their website. (but i am aware that phone numbers can be "spoofed") I try to call that number to verify if he is real (using different phone) and am on hold.... apparently indefinitely.

&amp;#x200B;

He tells me that I need to provide a fax number that no one else can see and I say that my staff can see what comes in on a fax. He suggests i need to find a local ups store so that he can send a fax there.

Meanwhile my staff is cancelling an entire day's worth of appointments, for our entire office.

I ask if he can read me my license number and he got that right (public record) and what is address where he works. He got that correct.

He asks for my zip code so that he can find a ups store for me. I say "you should have my address". He gives me an old address for my office from 2011. I write a note to get my office manager to call my lawyer on her cell.

Guy tells me that my license will be indefinitely suspended until they can 'clear this up'. He wants me to stay on phone with him otherwise 'the authorities' will come and take me to jail.

Now, i am just giving the highlights... this call went on for about an hour.

Eventually i say, "oh, i have my attorney on the other line." and Chief Inspector D'Millo hangs up on me.

I assume that the fax was going to be an order suspending my license. I wonder how they were going to get money out of me??