I have been cheated by this company namely Otex Technology. I was contacted for part time work (data-entry). Initially the management of this company contacted me over a telephone call (which source is difficult to decipher) and later on by making use of their PR skills and sugar-coated words, they showed me a fanciful path of earning money by sitting at home and even assured me that I can earn in Rs. 18, 000/- per month by just typing/editing/formatting the documents that they send to us through email. Initially I was asked to remit a sum of Rs. 3, 500/- which was promised that the same will be refundable at the time of receiving the first salary/income. But later on, they showed me their true color by not making any payment as promised and now they are not even responding to my phone calls and emails. When I checked in the website, I was put into knowledge that this company was established only to play a fraud on innocent people like me who are in search of monies for survival. Since I am an aggrieved party as well as a victim to the company management's systematic persecution, I have gathered all the details of the company's team members, work/office address, details of the owners/management.This company is having various branches at Delhi (not sure whether they have any office outside Delhi NCR), which itself proves the factum and quantum of their FRAUD/CHEATING motive/intent. I am totally surprised to state that the owner of this company Mr. Mrityunjay Kumar has other businesses in the same nature with different name (which makes him a professional fraudster/scamster). I am stating my grievance on this portal since I am not in a position to find a better solution. In this regard, whoever is interested to render help/assistance, they are most humbly welcomed. Below are the details of the said FRAUD company: 1. Name of the Owner: Mr. Mrityunjay Kumar 2. Contact number: [protected] 3. Name of the Company: Myriad Solutions 4. First Address of the Company: Plot No. 80, 2nd and 3rd Floor, Sewak Park, Near Dwarka More Metro Station, Metro Pillar No. 774, New Delhi - 110059 5. Second Address of the Company: 1/36, Near Gurudwara, Metro Station Laxmi Nagar, New Delhi