SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Amazon India is absolutely hopeless, pathetic &amp; a total fraud company 
DATE: 2024-10-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fw03po/amazon_india_is_absolutely_hopeless_pathetic_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

In the recent couple of months, I've noticed that Amazon India is harassing customers unnecessarily &amp; indulging in fraud activities. They deliver you wrong items, sometimes items missing completely &amp; at other times, they cheat you with providing misinformation on their website misleading consumers to buy those products but in reality they're fake items.
I ordered a Phillips MG5930/65 trimmer from amazon.in on 2nd Oct, 2024 where it clearly mentions on their website '3 Year Warranty', but the product which was delivered to me on 3rd Oct, 2024 clearly states '2 year worldwide guarantee'. Got a different information from what was promised.
Contacted their so-called great customer service support agents on the app via phone calls &amp; they were so unsupportive. At the same time, each of them were providing different contradicting information which was really annoying. Was also promised &amp; assured yesterday that I'll get the replacement product which specifically mentions 3 years warranty &amp; also a warranty card with invoice supporting the same. But it didn't happen today, wasted a total of 5 hours on calls with 8 different agents &amp; the last one with whom I spoke today said they can only provide the refund &amp; raise a complaint against the seller to rectify the information on their website. This isn't the resolution I'm looking for.
Mind you this trimmer ain't cheap compared to the other ones being sold on their website. Also, contacted Philips customer support &amp; even they confirmed that it's only 2 years &amp; amazon has mentioned it wrongly.
Such harassment calls for a compensation in the form of apology. Hence, filed a grievance at 'national consumer helpline' portal seeking resolution for this matter as amazon simply said they can't do anything except providing refund for the item.
What about the countless hours I spent surfing through hundreds of items on amazon to finalize this particular one based on the warranty provided which turned out to be false one. Complete bogus. This isn't a trivial matter which they stated. What if someone purchases a laptop or an electric bike online with the premise of good warranty coverage of the aforementioned time but in reality it turns out to be something else altogether. This is completely misleading &amp; totally cheating on consumers. Such unwarranted harassment.
Do I need to do anything else to raise awareness on this matter. Please help me with this. Below are all the proofs provided for your kind reference