SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Be Careful of Scams - HDFC Forex Card Story
DATE: 2023-04-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/12i0go1/be_careful_of_scams_hdfc_forex_card_story/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sharing this incident after really long time. But I feel it is important for people to know that you cannot trust anyone these days.

So, basically, bank employees, especially for private banks like ICICI and HDFC are a bit pushy. If you go for some work, they will try to hard sell insurance and stuff. It is not pleasant but still okayish.

However, I feel that with rising scams over phone, some bank employees are also involved in this especially in passing sensitive data and information to scammers.

I applied for HDFC Forex card back in 2019 and once it was ready, I had to pick it up from nearby center. So, I went to the HDFC branch of prestige Shantiniketan office area. After waiting for 5 minutes, there was one guy who called me to hand my forex card packet. But before giving, he interrogated me in quite an authoritative way. He asked me my name and then he asked me my date of travel to foreign country and also which country I am traveling to. I felt a bit shocked and quite odd but I gave the answers and got my packet and just left. Did not realize that I have been socially engineered to give some info which was irrelevant.

So, on day of travel, I got a call from someone saying that my Forex card has some issues and will not work. I truly freaked out because I was really dependent on it for my expenses. Also, the timing of call put pressure on me and it appeared authentic. They said that we will come to your place to give you the correct card. Luckily, I was already out of Bangalore and was in Delhi to catch by International flight. After a minute or two of panic, I realized that this is a scam call.

I have no doubt it was the bank person who passed this info to scammers or may be he himself was the scammer. Else, no one should have this information on a brand new Forex card and daring to call on my phone number on my day of travel. I wish nothing but hell for such people.

Also, how can such a guy do these things without involvement of bank manager and other employees. He asked me these sensitive information loudly in front of everyone. So, I think these all are scumbags.

Long story short, be careful. Especially with these white collar thieves.