SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Cong MLAs protest in Assembly seeking action against BJP MLA for remarks against Shivakumar
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/cong-mlas-protest-in-assembly-seeking-action-against-bjp-mla-for-remarks-against-shivakumar/2889780/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Bengaluru, Mar 26 (PTI) The Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Thursday witnessed chaotic scenes, with ruling Congress MLAs trooping into the well of the House, demanding the Speaker take action against BJP MLA Munirathna, accusing him of inappropriate behaviour and making personal comments against Deputy Chief Minister D K Shivakumar.
The incident occurred while Shivakumar was replying to a discussion on issues relating to Bengaluru. Shivakumar is also the Minister in-charge of Bengaluru Development.
As Munirathna passed certain comments against Shivakumar, demanding answers to some of the issues raised by him concerning the city, Congress members took strong objection to it calling it “inappropriate behaviour”.
Show Full Article
Munirathna demanded that Shivakumar answer his question, making remarks against the latter, even after Speaker U T Khader declared the discussion on Bengaluru closed and proceeded to the Question Hour. This further enraged Congress MLAs.
Congress legislators demanded that the Chair expel Munirathna from the House.
The ruling party MLAs then trooped into the well of the House, demanding that the Chair give its ruling, and announce action against Munirathna by expelling him.
As the chaos continued, Leader of Opposition R Ashoka, urged the Speaker to end the stalemate, by ensuring that Munirathna gets reply to issues on which he is demanding answers, through officers, and expunge certain inappropriate comments that were made.
However, Congress members demanded that Munirathna apologise or that the Speaker suspend him.
Khader, while expunging the comments made during the exchange, said, “Karnataka is not known for revenge politics, but humanity and harmony. This is the tradition of this House. We must uphold the honour and decorum of the House. This is not a place to display power or indulge in personal attacks.” Warning strict action against any act of indiscipline, he said, “We should ensure that such things don’t repeat.” He said the Chair can give a ruling expelling or suspening a member only when the government names him or her.
Following the Speaker’s warning against any act of misconduct, and a request to them, Congress members withdrew their protest.
Earlier in the day, Shivakumar and Munirathna engaged in a verbal altercation after the former referred to cases against the MLA, which the Speaker had expunged from the records. PTI KSU KH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.