SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Potential Romance Scam?
DATE: 2019-03-06
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/axwwqw/potential_romance_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi all, 

I really don't know what to think about the situation I'm about to describe. I am not the potential victim, it is a very close friend instead. 

My friend has been talking to a man online, let's call him "J". I want to say they have been talking since August of last year or so. This man claims he lives in the UK, but has traveled to India to do some "engineering" work. He has sent many photos that are supposedly of him to my friend. They all feature a man who seems to be consistent in every photo, for the most part. 

J and my friend seem to be romantically interested in each other, but they have not made an attempt to video chat or meet up in real life. From what I know, it has always just been phone calls. I reverse-image searched photos J has sent, but I have not found the photos being used anywhere else.

Earlier today my friend came to me and said that J had said that he wanted to deposit his paycheck of $1M (USD) into a new bank account, and that he needed my friends help to do so (something about paying a fee if he were to deposit it at an Indian bank or something). it just didn't feel right to me, because J said my friend only needed to pay some fee to get said account set up, around $1.5K USD (why? Sounds suspicious). First of all, 1 million dollars seems way too good to be true (which is why I have a lot of red flags going up) and second, just the fact that we have never met this man is enough to make me very suspicious.

I saw a photo of J's supposed paycheck, it also seemed pretty fake-looking, but I have never seen what Indian checks look like. 

Friend seems very convinced, and allowed me to listen to a voice recording sent by J. For a man who is supposed to be British, the voice seemed to have a bit of an Indian accent instead. 

So that is why I am very concerned, especially because there is money involved. I would just like to know what your thoughts on this issue are.