SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: An Insanely Slick Scam
DATE: 2024-04-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1c31hby/an_insanely_slick_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

This happened to me about a year ago and I’m still absolutely puzzled as to how it happened so I’m wondering if anyone has any clue. 

I ordered a laptop at Best Buy for pick up. For context, Best Buy gives you 7 days or so to pick it up. 

When I went to pick it up, the employee told me it was being investigated for fraud and that Best Buy would call me within 24 hours to verify me and then I could come pick it up. I’m a bit disappointed so head home. 10 minutes after I arrive home, I get a phone call and answer it. It sounded like it was likely an Indian call center. They said they were with Best Buy fraud and asked if I had purchased X model laptop, at 6:21pm on Monday under such and such order number. And wanted to confirm that I owned the Capital One card that ended in the last 4 numbers of xxxx. 

Mind you, every piece of this information was spot on. They had the correct order number, the correct time I ordered it, the correct last 4 numbers of my credit card, etc.

They then said that to verify me I would just need to give them my card details so they could put a temporary $200 charge on my card that would never post. 

Luckily I didn’t go through with it, but it’s not like I didn’t go through with it because I thought it was a scam. I was just fed up at this point that I didn’t have my laptop. So I told them to cancel my order instead. 

Later that night I called Best Buy’s official customer service number to ask why they thought my purchase was fraudulent because I wanted to make a new order for the same laptop and I mentioned the call I got earlier in the day. They asked what number it came from and confirmed that it was not a Best Buy number and to not answer from that number as Best Buy customers had been getting hit with the exact scam that about hit me. 

Really crazy to me. Firstly, how did they have all of my order number information? Secondly, since I had 7 days to pick up the order, and the worker told me I’d get a call within 24 hours, how the heck did the scammers know that I had tried to pick up my order and that their “24 hour window” had started?