SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: A guy scammed my mom of 40,000
DATE: 2025-03-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1jabbve/a_guy_scammed_my_mom_of_40000/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys, Few months back my mom who’s been trying to grow her business was approached through a guy from a networking group. Since he knew other people as well she easily trusted him. This guy handled the social media, made videos the general agency stuff for which he took 10-15k. He was also creating the website for my mom’s business for which he took another 15k. He also took another 40k in the name of advertising the products in a production house which he had claimed was refundable. 
He took around 2 months to make the website and it was shit, in the way that he just used a template from shopify and presented it. It was not even edited with the name of the business just the template as it is with few added pictures. This made my mother suspicious and she confronted him and asked for a refund which he provided after 1 month. Further we understood this guy is a scam since his social media work was below average too. We asked him for the 40k that he took for advertisement back as well and he promised to give it back but hasn’t since the past 3 months. He kept giving dates after dates making excuses (arrogantly) but finally admitted he has no money after threatened with legal action. He’s around 23 years old and he also involved his family where his mother was apologetic at first but also said she wants to commit suicide because of his son which just Felt like the whole family is a scams tee. We took this to the police but they are saying we will only file a fir but won’t take any action?

Now my mom’s current financial state is not that well since she recently got out of an abusive marriage through divorce. She was a house maker all her life and only has her parents money to depend on. This business was one hope she had but it doesn’t seem to work now. I have just started my career and live in a different city and can barely keep myself floating at the moment. Is there any way to legally approach this without having to spend a lot since the divorce which happened last year exhausted a lot of money. 
Further, he has also done similarly to other people and also not paid his employees. 
If someone can please help it would be great!