SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: UK releases first files on Mandelson’s appointment as US ambassador
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-03-11
URL: https://theprint.in/world/uk-releases-first-files-on-mandelsons-appointment-as-us-ambassador/2876375/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

LONDON, March 11 (Reuters) – Britain’s government published on Wednesday the first documents covering the appointment of Peter Mandelson as ambassador to Washington, reviving questions about Prime Minister Keir Starmer’s judgment in employing a man close to Jeffrey Epstein.
The publication of the first tranche of documents covering the vetting of Mandelson, under police investigation for allegedly leaking government documents to the late sex offender, does little to reduce the pressure on Starmer, who is under fire over the appointment and a series of policy U-turns.
Starmer’s allies have sought to play down the importance of the first set of documents, saying an ongoing police investigation meant some of the more revealing exchanges were being withheld.
Show Full Article
Further documents will be released at a later date, papers which the British prime minister’s team say will prove Mandelson lied to Starmer before his appointment to become Britain’s top diplomat over the extent of his relationship with Epstein.
Mandelson, a government minister when Labour was previously in power more than 15 years ago, quit the House of Lords upper house of parliament in February over links to Epstein. He was arrested last month for alleged misconduct in office.
Files released by the U.S. Justice Department in January included emails suggesting Mandelson had leaked government documents to Epstein, and that the convicted offender had recorded payments to Mandelson or his then-partner, now husband.
Mandelson has said he does not recall having received payments. He has not commented publicly on allegations he leaked documents, and did not respond to messages seeking comment.
(Reporting by Elizabeth Piper and Sam Tabahriti, editing by William James)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.