SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Defamation Case! URGENT (POSH) 
DATE: 2024-07-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1eatxbr/defamation_case_urgent_posh/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys I needed some advice/guidance. 
So a subordinate of my father had filed a POSH complaint against him in around June. There was a committee and her claims were baseless and out of spite and it was closed. The thing is for a case to be closed both the parties involved have to sign it. And the subordinate has refused to sign it citing if and when they get an apology from my father then they’ll sign it. But there is no apology as my father did nothing ever. This is backed up by the fact that she does not have any evidence and my father does to hold his case. 

Now, this matter has gone on for long enough and is now taking a toll, mentally, on my father and my family. Not to mention an open POSH case does not reflect well on potential employers. Yesterday he received a call from some guy from a digital media agency asking about his side of the case. Since it was well beyond official working hours he asked him to meet him tomorrow in the office. Post which the person texted that since he (my father) has refused to say anything on the case he’d (digital media person) would like the numbers of the POSH committee members. 

Now I wanted to ask that we had planned that since the water is well above our head we’d like to file a defamation case with psychological torture against the subordinate and maybe the organisation (of which my father is the employee for not taking swift action and letting it go on as it has). I need advice how doable it is and are there any ramifications. 

PS: When I proposed the idea of filing a case it was not to receive compensation but so that it would put pressure on the subordinate to close the POSH case. It is most likely that she doesn’t show up for the hearing or whatever. But that isn’t the problem because our priority is to close the POSH case. 

I understand POSH is not easy but I can assure everyone that the case against my father is personal, baseless and out of pure spite. I reiterate the supposed victim failed to produce a single iota of evidence and my father has plenty of it; from WhatsApp texts to emails shared with the subordinate and HR. 

POSH stands for prevention of sexual harassment.