SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Modi, Shah, Suvendu wish Matua community on Harichand Thakur’s 215th birth anniversary
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-16
URL: https://theprint.in/india/modi-shah-suvendu-wish-matua-community-on-harichand-thakurs-215th-birth-anniversary/2880256/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Kolkata, Mar 16 (PTI) Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and senior West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday extended greetings to the Matua community on the 215th birth anniversary of the sect’s spiritual leader, Harichand Thakur.
A Matua Dharma Mela is being organised in North 24 Parganas district on the occasion.
“My heartfelt greetings and best wishes to all devotees and participants of the Matua Dharma Mela. This special occasion is associated with the Jayanti of Purna Brahma Shree Shree Harichand Thakur Ji. I offer my humble pranams to him. His thoughts and teachings continue to give strength and hope to several people. They awakened a powerful movement for dignity, equality and devotion. He inspired generations to walk the path of righteousness, harmony and collective upliftment,” the PM said in an X post.
Show Full Article
“The rich and vibrant traditions of the Matua culture reflect a deep spiritual strength and an unbreakable commitment to equality. It significantly enriches the social fabric of our nation. Over the past decade, our government has been deeply committed to the welfare, empowerment and dignity of the Matua community,” Modi said.
Shah, in a post on X, said, “Sri Sri Thakur was a great and divine soul. He delved deep into our eternal knowledge and spirituality to reveal priceless teachings on devotion, equality, and ethical living, which continue to serve as our guiding light even today.” He expressed hope that Matua Dharma Mela would strengthen commitment to these principles.
Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, Adhikari, in a post on X, offered his obeisance to Harichand Thakur, with salutation ‘Jai Haribol’.
The Matua community, which has a significant presence in the districts of North and South 24 Paraganas, Nadia and other parts of West Bengal, is considered a key electoral constituency in the poll-bound state.
The community, comprising Hindu refugees and their descendants who migrated from erstwhile East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), is a major vote bank in West Bengal and could play a decisive role in several seats in the assembly elections.
The community holds significant political weight particularly in the border districts of North and South 24 Paraganas and Nadia, concentrated along the Bangladesh border belt spanning assembly segments such as Gaighata, Bangaon Uttar, Bangaon Dakshin and Bagda, and is estimated to number over one crore across the state.
Both the BJP and the ruling Trinamool Congress have aggressively wooed the Matua electorate in their outreach to the community. PTI BSM ACD
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.