SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Down in debt and depressed! Can anyone help suggest a way out?
DATE: 2023-12-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/18pvmaf/down_in_debt_and_depressed_can_anyone_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi,

This year was the worst year of my life. I saw a lot of setbacks in my personal life and professional life this year and then I lost 30L rupees in a scam.

This was a lot of my stupidity too. I took around 9 personal loans from different personal loan mobile apps and used my credit cards to the max hoping I will make some money in e-commerce and foreclose the loans from apps in a month or two. But a guy scammed me from China and I lost 29 lakhs in a day.

Now my situation is - my salary is 1.5 Lakh per month. I have a homelone with a EMI of 40K. Rest I have these 9 loans from apps and 3 credit cards which has a total debt of 27lakhs and now my monthly emi for all of this is way more than my salary. All these loan apps and credit card has very high interest rates.

I am in this situation since 2 months now where i am paying more emi's then my salary asking my family for money. I have managed till now and no EMI has bounced but i think i won't be able to manage after 1-2 months.

I was trying to get a big loan of around 25lakhs from a proper bank with a better interest rate so I can close all the app loans and credit card and just pay one EMI. That should be within my salary. But since my Cibil is now showing all these 9 loans and credit cards and my recent loan inquiries are also very high, no bank is giving me a loan because my account is overleveraged and my loan inquiries are so many in the recent days.

I tried contacting some private finance people but nobody i found that can help me here. I think if a private finance company can loan me around 25lakh for 3 months so thatIi can clear all these app loans and clear my Cibil, I can then contact a bank again for a bigger personal loan which should be easily approved. I can then close the loan from the private finance company and pay the bank a single EMI. But i can't find any such company. 

Now I feel all my doors and closed and I don't see a way out of this. Can anyone suggest what could be a way out of this? Thank you!