SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I fcked up real bad!! 
DATE: 2024-12-10
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1haw1al/i_fcked_up_real_bad/

--- POST TEXT ---

So last night I was in omegleapp.me, and was just chilling, guys were skipping and some were staying to talk nothing unusual. Suddenly a girl came up, seemed like talking through a laptop, looked cool I introduced my self n all and after the basic introduction she said "WANNA HAVE FUN?" and my horny ass at 2am in the night said yes, ans she pulled up her tits I was shocked but my critical thinking was nowhere to be found. So I said "damn nice tits" So she said show me your and I pulled up my tshirt and showed her my tits(chest) I didn't open my pants on omegle. 

So next thing she says is "do you hve telegram" I should have understood my then but I said yes and she sent her id. I text her there and she said call me I did. Next thing is im shirtless and only pant on, then she showed her tits and my dumb horny ass pulled the pants down too, now I'm chocking my chicken and we are going at it, I have this doubt that this may be a scam but mu hormones just overshadowed that thought. 
Next thing what happened is "I get a screen share &amp; on that there is a upload page of Twitter and upload page of tiktok, I quickly cut the call and He starts saying " If you don't want this to get viral make a deal with me "So eventually he asks for 15k INR and gives his paypal, but I try negotiating with him and get him down at 4k (I have no intention of paying and just delaying the process so that he loses interest or I get time to understand if he is being serious) so I madeup that my paypal isn'twworkingh he said send on WISE, so now he's guiding me through the process of registration and I'm playing dumb &amp; sending him screenshot so thay he can guide me through the process. When its time to send I just say that "I can only send 1k but you have to delete the video first, cuz nobody on the internet would want to see a Indian guy jerking his semi hard dick(he didn't even gave me time to get hard😭) tbh. The only way he can make profit out of this is if he take my 1k &amp; move on. But he just said he will upload on the Phub and he will get $100 for it, I never responded back and blocked him. Idk if he really did but he sure sent a ss. Can you guys please confirm if these are all in serious or is he bluffing?

1. I'm usually very very careful on these sites, but may be that's what I get to think through my dick. 

2. I shouldn't have talked to him that long, should have blocked in first instance I was panicked 😭

3. WHAT SHOULD BE MY NEXT STEPS? 

4. He is from Philippines, I have his name

5. I never did these things ever before, but whenever I try to do something bad God makes an example out of me.

Please help what should I do now, was he bluffing? How can I find the video he uploaded on Phub, Twitter &amp; tiktok?? 

Please help a brother out