SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Uber scam
DATE: 2019-05-22
SCORE: 130
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/brkftr/uber_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I flew back home to Bangalore at 3 this morning, after a long stressful day yesterday and as anybody else would do, booked an uber to reach home. I booked a go but it got upgraded to a go luggage on it's own.

The driver arrived and we started and barely a kilometer from the airport he turned into a kaccha road that takes us through nowhere, which is basically a bypass road to avoid toll. His sudden detour surprised me but I knew it's something all cabbies do lately.

It started to get creepy when the driver turned off the uber phone's gps service so that he could go off the books, while he goes through the bypass road that let's be honest not a path anyone would want to take at 3 in the morning.

When I confronted the driver why he turned off the gps, he told me (pissed off that I asked him) that's their way to scam uber for the airport road trip toll money. Take a road through nowhere to save a 40 rupees toll and turn off GPS while they do it cause uber app will trace back the route through the tolled road once they join back further ahead in the highway.

I really didn't feel safe that the driver did this. He didn't even ask me if i was okay that we're not going on the usual route nor did he ask me when turning off the GPS to go off radar. At 3 in the morning, that bypass road seems really lonely and not somewhere anyone would want to be alone with a aggressive cabbie whom you trust to reach back home.

When I further asked him why he did this he told me that since I got upgraded to a go luggage, this was his way to make back his extra buck by saving the toll. When I asked him why he didn't ask me before he took a detour and turn off the GPS. He got aggressive and threatened me (cussing a few words) that he'd stop the trip right in the middle of nowhere, in a very lonely place, at 3 am, and asked me to take another cab. He took advantage of me thay I was vulnerable and couldn't actually do anything than ride with him. 

I do not care that he stole my 40 bucks which I paid as toll surcharges, I probably would have tipped him more if he had been nice to me. What concerns me is that, for a significant part of my journey, I travelled in a route that isn't on record. I'm even surprised that uber even lets you to turn off the GPS facility during trip and doesn't even know something fishy is going on. And consent is key. 

Pretty sure everyone books an uber for the trust we have in their system, and in a belief that if anything were to happen during the trip, uber exists to back us up. Which really isn't the case. 

It seems like the drivers are just using uber's name to gain free customers and them scam them in the way they want. They don't ply to any rules and regulations of uber and I'm not surprised uber doesn't even bother to recognize this as a concern. 

The driver actually told me that he does this on a regular basis and if someone reports him for this, uber puts a 1000 rupee fine. And he told me it's worth it as most of the time people don't even notice.

I even tried to contact uber's customer service which doesn't seem to exist. Raising a claim in the app just told me the usual thing 'your complaint is under review ' 

All in all. It's a really scary world where customers are taken advantage of when they're most vulnerable and threatening to leave them and go in the middle of literally nowhere is just a whole new level of woahh on its own. 

Thank you fellow uber driver for helping me shit my pants at 3 in the morning. Thank you for involving me in your petty scam and having the audacity to threaten me for asking about it. Thank you for making me lose faith in your cabs and your flawed system that is uber.