SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Google Pay/UPI - Delivery Scam in the guise of Cash on Delivery. Beware!
DATE: 2023-01-13
SCORE: 65
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/10aqtfk/google_payupi_delivery_scam_in_the_guise_of_cash/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone.

I woke up to a phone call this afternoon (1:15PM) from a supposed delivery agent named Mahesh. He claimed to be from a delivery agency (forgot the name) that handles packages for Amazon, Meesho, Flipkart etc. 

I was expecting a package of mine from Amazon today, so I did not think too much of it. I asked him if it was from Amazon and he said he isn't sure as he works for the agency. I said ok.

He then proceeded to say that it was cash on delivery, and I asked him if I could UPI the amount (799rs). Once I was done with the transaction he said he left it with the security guard and hung up. I checked with my partner if she was expecting any packages and that's when I realised I had been scammed. 

First off, this was more than the Amazon order expected today (which I realised I paid for already of 399rs 🤦‍♂️). 

When we rushed down to the security guard, there was no package there. The scammer, Mahesh, stopped picking up our calls. We tried from different numbers but had no luck. 

I contacted my bank and informed them about this, I will be filing an FIR at Bellandur Police Station now. After this I will need to take a copy of the FIR back to the bank to register the complaint. 

I feel really silly right now, I know I made a mistake and I can only hope to get the money back but please beware of these scams. I have Google pay'd delivery executives in the past and had no problems. This was a huge mistake I made. 

I have the Google Pay transaction receipt and his phone number, so I am hoping we can get to the bottom of this. What are the chances of me getting my money back?

TLDR:
Woke up to a call from a supposed delivery agent who had a cash on delivery parcel. There was no delivery and I lost 799rs. Spoke to the bank, I am on the way to the police station now to file an FIR.