SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: ‘Godman’ Kharat scandal: Oppn should submit proof instead of making allegations, says Bawankule
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/india/godman-kharat-scandal-oppn-should-submit-proof-instead-of-making-allegations-says-bawankule/2894450/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mumbai, Apr 1 (PTI) Maharashtra Revenue Minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule on Wednesday asked opposition leaders not to indulge in empty rhetoric and submit any evidence they possess to the SIT, which is probing various allegations against rape accused ‘godman’ Ashok Kharat.
The minister was reacting to demands raised by the opposition NCP (SP) seeking a thorough probe into the purported links of political leaders with Kharat based on their photos with him.
Kharat was arrested on March 18 after a 35-year-old woman accused him of repeated rape over a period of three years. Following his arrest, multiple rape complaints were filed against him.
Show Full Article
“Opposition leaders should not indulge in empty rhetoric. If they have any evidence, they should submit it to the SIT instead of making statements in the media and creating unrest among the people for publicity,” Bawankule told reporters.
He said the SIT inquiry was underway and urged Rohit Pawar and Vijay Wadettiwar, who belong to NCP (SP) and Congress, respectively, to cooperate by providing any material they possess.
Responding to a query on Kharat’s wife being absconding, Bawankule expressed confidence that the police would trace her.
At least 10 FIRs, eight for alleged sexual assault or exploitation and two for cheating, have been registered against Kharat at Sarkarwada police station in Nashik, while the SIT has received more than 100 complaints over the phone against him.
On Wednesday, an SIT team detained Kharat’s son Harshvardhan for questioning at their residence in Karmayogi Nagar here. He was let off at night.
The investigators are also attempting to trace Kharat’s wife, Kalpana, who is named in a cheating case in Ahilyanagar district, in connection with the ongoing probe against her husband.
Kharat heads a temple trust at Sinnar in Nashik district. Several political leaders used to visit him over the years.
Last week, the SIT visited Kharat’s office in Nashik along with a forensic science team, from where they recovered several documents, files and other evidence.
Bawankule, meanwhile, slammed NCP (SP) MLC Eknath Khadse for questioning the stability of the government.
“The ruling alliance had secured 51 per cent of the vote. In a system governed by law, offenders would face action irrespective of their stature, but such incidents would not lead to the fall of a government,” he added. PTI ND NSK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.