SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need advice on dealing with SBI Card overdue bill recovery agents
DATE: 2025-03-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1j169bl/need_advice_on_dealing_with_sbi_card_overdue_bill/

--- POST TEXT ---

Due to unforeseen financial troubles, I couldn't pay my SBI Card minimum due in February. I've informed their support multiple times on email and call that I'll pay it in early March soon as I have the funds. But, they seem to have shared my details to recovery agents who are sending my anonymous accusatory messages on WhatsApp time and again.

I get a shady message from a different number each day and they don't even mention their bank name on text even when asked repeatedly and the amount they quote is also somewhat off. Some of them also have timed their chats to delete in 24hrs but I do have screenshot evidence of their texts. They tell me to "pay now" to avoid home visits, which get postponed everyday.

I got to know it's SBI Card they're messaging me on behalf of when they told me on WhatsApp about a legal notice (issued by Easy Legal Associates), which I received over mail, where they have named SBI Card as the client. They apparently issued a notice just a bit over two weeks after the missed due date and are ridiculously asking me to pay the entire bill (not the minimum due) in 7 days of receiving the notice.

During this time, I've been in touch with SBI Card executives who have reached out to me from mobile numbers (not typical landline) and kept the same stance that I'll be able to pay in March only. They never bring up any legal notice issued or anything during those conversations and I also don't mention it. But, I'm pretty convinced SBI Card handed over my contact because the issued notice I got in mail carries their name and my details as well. It also mentions a BNS rule 318 (4) violation by me which apparently is about "cheating."

So, I was wondering how can I stop these shady anonymous messages/emails until I collect funds to pay the minimum due (which will happen next week itself)? Should I just ignore or block these messages or should I warn them I'll report the anonymous messages and numbers to Cyber Crime Cell?

One more thing. I noticed SBI is also deducting the little money I received in my account and adding it towards payment of my credit card due via some auto-sweep. But, the thing is I never enabled auto-payment. Is this legal what they are doing here?

I intend to mention both the legal notice from anonymous senders and the auto-sweep issue to SBI Card the next time they call. For now, I'd request anyone with the know-how/experience to help me with the two questions above and also let me know if I should take the legal notice seriously.