SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Friend sent me fake Airpods
DATE: 2024-09-22
SCORE: 44
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fmqf04/friend_sent_me_fake_airpods/

--- POST TEXT ---

So the story is like this. It's a little long, so please bear with me. 

One of my good friends from college wanted to buy a Mac through EMI for 2 years and asked for my help. She wanted to buy the 512 GB one from FK for 1.22L, but I advised her not to take the 256 GB one for 1.4L and get an external HDD or SSD later if needed. I even made her aware of the Apple education pricing offer and told her that she could get an Airpods Pro 2 for 5K extra. Since she already had Airpods 1, and the design didn't fit in her ears, she said she didn't need the Airpods. I asked if I could keep it for 5K(to be adjusted from the money that she owes me and pay me the rest). She agreed. 
I ordered the Mac and Airpods both in July and it was delivered. Now from July till August first week, she was responding to my calls and messages. She was to come to her home in August and I expected to get the Airpods from her then. She came but we couldn't meet due to her falling sick. She didn't respond to my calls and just said one day that she was severely ill, so she couldn't meet. 
She went back to her job, and after that, I kept asking her through text(since she wasn't picking my calls up nor reverting) for around a week if she had left the Airpods at her home and I could swing by and pick them up. After around a week and texting her grudgingly, saying a few long lines, she finally said that she had given it to the service centre since one side wasn't working. I got mad at her and asked her why she would even do it since I asked her not to open the package and give it to me as is. To this, she was like, how could I have given it to you without checking and didn't admit her fault? I let it go and asked her to get them as soon as possible from the service centre and courier them to me. 
Now, from August third week to September first, she kept saying she would courier but kept delaying it and even told me she was not in the city, so she was not able to do it(I found out later that she was, in fact, in the city and was lying). On September 1, she texted and asked if it was ok to sell the Airpods since 2 people were ready to buy them for 22K. I was shocked at first. Mind here that I was already frustrated with her for non-responsive attitude for the last month. So I simply said this is not what we agreed when I ordered the Mac. After some back-and-forth conversation about this topic, I finally convinced her to send it. 
She took a few more days and finally sent it via courier last Tuesday. I received the parcel on Thursday. I still sensed something was fishy, so I decided to do a video of the opening.
To my shock, there was only a fake Airpods and a flimsy cable in the package.
I instantly called her; She didn't pick up as usual. I texted her how could she do it and all. And she has gone unresponsive since then. 
I even tried to reach out to her through one of my friends, who is her colleague, but she didn't take my call, outrightly refused to talk with me, and told my friend to tell me that she was in a meeting.

I texted her through WhatsApp to explain herself and come clean. But she is just seeing the messages but not replying to anything.

It's not about the Airpods, I can buy it if I want. I am just shocked at the lies and the betrayal she pulled on me. I went out of my depth to help her monetarily when she shifted from her home to her new job. I was not earning anything. So it was a very big deal for me to lend her money. But thinking that she would need it more, I helped. Not just this, I have helped her with many things in the past for the sake of our friendship. 

Now I am just seeking an opinion as to what I can do. I know I can't do anything about the betrayal or the lies. But what about the fake Airpods that she has sent me? I was thinking this was a fit case for fraud. Is it?