Firstly today morning got a text message: Filpkrat recruiting for part-time jobs, you can earn[protected] Rs every day, add Whatsapp: wa.me/[protected] VNODEK Which takes me to watspp number of this guy name Prakash, number is +[protected]. After contacting him so he told me to join process Simply put. You need to purchase products in our designated online store, but the merchant will not provide you with real delivery services. Then through offline payment, the amount of the goods you purchased will be refunded to you, and the commission will be paid to you as salary. (This operation is called: helping businesses increase sales) following with If you are interested in this one? You can become a regular employee of our platform after you finish the task. The daily salary of regular employees is above 5000Rs. Than he tell me to login nd register by sharing a link: To make it easier for you to understand how we make money, you need to register your own money making account. I will let you send a link and you will open and register your account Please open the link: https://y-amazon.com/#/entry/register?reg_invite_code=450023 After I asked him is it scam or fake so he replied: Please do not worry. Your funds are safe and secure. If we lie to you, the Indian government will not let you open our website Now, I have the following three order tasks for you to choose to complete You can perform three tasks: 1. Recharge 200 earn 200 withdraw 400 2. Recharge 500 earn 150 withdraw 650 3. Recharge 1000 earn 300 withdraw 1300 What job do you want to do, please tell me？ Than he told me just deposit 200 so he can make my profile accordingly he instructions. After 200rs first deposit he sent me a link of Telegram and ask me to join it. Sir! Please add the telegram of our little sister from the personnel department. Miss sister will arrange tasks for you later。 https://t.me/BillieKumar According to him this account telegram was his sister account and she will help out to complete task further also he assured that if any query he will be in touch. After contacting to her on Telegram till the time I was just fool that I am becoming on their instructions. On first 3 to 5 levels the deposit of 3000rs I have withdrawn all amount but she asked me to go to next level by deposit of 3000rs and said that it will took me on 4th level by saying: "3. Recharge 3000 to earn 1000 commissions and withdraw 4000 4. Recharge 5000 to earn 1800 commissions and withdraw 6800. There are 8 tasks in this order, you can successfully join the mission after completion! Join our team and get 5000 rupees every day! " After that I redeposit 3000rs for 3rd level and start completing task and after on 2nd task they asked me more money of 2500rs for further completing task. Nd again she asked me that you need to deposit amount for getting back previous amount what you have been invested already. So for getting my amount back in their trap I was force to redeposit amount and till the time total deposit amount was 7500rs. And at last when she asked more than I stopped and asked her to refund my money back and I don't need to proceed further in their trap again n again. So I called back the previous guy Name Prakash but he didn't received my calls so I revert him on msg and he replied that same I need to redeposit amount so my already hold amount can get refund. And he was just forcing me to deposit amount to play further. I have all screenshot record of them and I am ready at my level best to get my money back. So herefor my request to crime cyber team is please help me to get my money back as soon as possible. Nd my request please don't mention anywhere me or my details. With regards Punit Sharma Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (20)