SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: TVS not honouring warranty 
DATE: 2024-05-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1cizbt2/tvs_not_honouring_warranty/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have a TVS Apache which I've gotten serviced from the authorized service center (Prominent in Mumbai) since I've bought it. I started experiencing issues with the ABS unit and it stopped working 2 years ago. I brought it up on my next scheduled service and they urged me to replace the ABS sensor which I obliged with. 

1-2 days later the problem came up again. They told me that the ABS motor might have gone faulty and they'll need to check it but since they don't have the replacement part ready they can't. They told me to wait as they'll order it and proceed with the work. I waited and waited, many months gone by still the part didn't arrive. I sternly asked again and the service advisor told me that the part costs ₹25k and you'll have to pay the half to get it ordered. 

I started reconsidering my options and that's when I came to know that the part they're talking about is covered under my Annual Maintenance Contract by the service center and should be replaced free of cost. So I approached higher ups and shot an email. I narrated the experiences in it and soon received a call from the territory manager. 

He assured me that if the part is indeed faulty then they'll replace it with no charges. The service center was instructed to order parts at once and that's when they gave me a order number. Later I received call from TVS head office confirming my issue with the part for warranty claim. I told them that I've been experiencing this issue since 1.5 years and it's not getting resolved. He noted all of this and soon the part arrived at service centre to be replaced. I went there but in their incompetence, they ordered part of a different model which wouldn't fit. I was sent back home again and this back and forth went on for around 3 months and at last the guys from service center tolde that I wouldn't be covered under warranty.

The territory manager whom stopped taking my calls after this point and I enquired further with the service center on call and basically the guy told me that on your head office call you mentioned that you had the problem since 1.5 years and that's why the warranty got rejected. You should have said that the problem was recent. Basically they were trying to get me covered under some other type of warranty without my knowledge and something went wrong between TVS and the service center and I got caught in the crossfire (I have recording of this call)

The thing is when I raised my complaint 2 years ago, I should have been covered under 2 types of warranty. The first is the company warranty which lasts for 5 years after the date the bike was bought. And other which is the service center warranty where I bought the annual maintenance contract. The service center even mentions this part on the wall which will be replaced for free if we buy their contract.

I filled a consumer forum complaint a month ago and TVS again called me and I narrated everything. But I have received no reply. I keep following up on Twitter with TVS but I think they are giving me generic auto replies.

I am fed up of their bullshit and I am thinking of suing them. Afterall the ABS is a safety critical component which can only be serviced by TVS. I have no other option than to go to the service center for this thing. All the joy of riding my bike has gone away after this issue. 

I have two options now, pay up 25k for this part myself, or proceed legally and sue them for fraud, mental agony and negligence in servicing a safety critical component.

What should I do?

TLDR: Service center not honouring warranty claim for ABS unit of my motorcycle which costs 25k. It is safety critical and dangerous to ride without it. It has been 2 years since I've raised this complaint, they just keep telling me to wait some more. At the time of complaint I was covered under 5 years warranty provided by TVS which lapsed later, and since then I am covered under maintenance contract warranty with service center which they are not honouring. I filed consumer forum complaint online but after initial proceedings, TVS is unresponsive too.