SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Can India change following COVID-19?
DATE: 2020-03-29
SCORE: 23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/fr1arf/can_india_change_following_covid19/

--- POST TEXT ---

This question is specifically for the youth of India (people in the 18-45 age range)! Is this our wake up call? Are we gonna recover from this and become a different country? A country of innovators who actually work to make the country better, instead of slaving away for MNCs creating fake digital lives? A country with strong fundamentals where the officials are accountable. Where we ask questions to the state. Where the government becomes the serving class and not the ruling class they currently are! Where we discuss fundamentals before voting and stop caring about Hindus and Muslims and caste and creed?

What can the next generation of entrepreneurs do to make our fundamentals and basics strong? And by fundamentals I mean absolute fundamentals. Like clean water, electricity, food supply network, medicine, hospitals and infrastructure (roads and trains) and education in every single village. I don’t care about the entrepreneurs who make dev tools to help enterprises collaborate better. Yes you serve a purpose, but you are serving the top 5-10% and your efforts would never uplift the laborers that are walking home 100s of Kms. We need our youth to unite and rebuild India. We have to get into drone deliveries, rapid road construction technologies, autonomous trucks, bio technology and what not! We won our independence more than 70 years ago, and have for too long relied on foreign countries to uplift us and our economy. It’s time we take action! If you are educated and can read and go to work for an MNC, you owe it to your future generations to invent after you get home.

I am at loss for ideas on how to start rebuilding my country. But I know we have to get up and start building! (Of course not now. Let this calm down, and start in 3 months. Stay the fuck home right now!)