SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Defamation case for Google review update! 
DATE: 2024-02-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1b31gfg/defamation_case_for_google_review_update/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys, 
I have received a legal notice from the company. Just for writing a google review. Here's the content of it: 

To,
Nimisha Arora
1. That under instructions and on behalf my client _____ Pvt Ltd,
having its registered Head office at 26a, Satnam Park, Ram Nagar, Krishna
Nagar, Delhi, 110051, and Regional office at 3rd floor Palika Bazzar,
Kapoorthala Lucknow 226024 ( hereinafter referred to as “my client”) serve
upon you the following legal notice.
2. That my client is engaged in designing Pitch Deck and providing
financial advisory to startups who are looking to raise funds.
3. That it has come to our attention that on 25/02/2024 you, (Nimisha
Arora), a former employee of our client, have been engaging in posting
fake reviews on our client's Google My Business profile with the intent to
damage their reputation.
4. That upon discovering these deceptive actions, our client instructed
their Human Resources representative, Mr. Nikunj Jalan, to contact you to
address the issue. During the conversation, you admitted to being head of
the extortion gang and you confessed to posting these reviews using your
friend's profile and further demanded monetary compensation from our
client in exchange for discontinuing these activities.
5. That Your actions of posting false reviews and subsequently attempting
to extort money from our client are not only unethical but also illegal. Such
behavior constitutes defamation and extortion under the law, which our
client takes very seriously.
6. That the said acts are punishable under Section 499 and section 384 of
the Indian Penal Court, with 3 years of imprisonment.
7. That you are liable for the reputational damage from your above act
which is calculated at Rupees one Crore( 1,00,00,000)INR
8. That you shall also be liable for legal costs of the criminal complaints
and civil suits filed by my client.
9. That you are therefore put to notice to immediately remove the false
reviews and pay the compensation within 24 hours of receiving the notice,
failing which my client shall have no option but to avail its remedies in law
and file a police complaint at Kapoorthala Police station Lucknow.
10. Kindly note that any further failure on your part to comply with the
aforesaid requisitions mentioned above, shall constrain my client to
institute both civil and/ criminal proceedings, including without limitation
under Section 499 of the section 384 of IPC, in the appropriate court of law
or forum against you and/or your affiliates, employees and/any business
associates/partners and/or persons/ entities etc. for which only you shall
be responsible for both cause and consequence thereof. My client also
reserve its rights to inter-alia claim rendition of accounts and damages
from you which are calculated at one crore (1,00,00,000) INR
11. Please be advised that this notice serves as a formal warning, and our
client reserves all rights to pursue legal action against you to the fullest
extent permitted by law, should you continue with your unlawful activities.

The lawyer: 
Varun Jalan
Advocate
Allahabad High Court, Lucknow Bench
COP No. 250227 | Registration No. UP13374/22

Additionally, they have filed a cyber crime case against me. 

Note:
I did not ask for money rather asked them to pay my stipend and I'll delete my review. I did not admit to getting my friends to write anything on their page.

Kindly help!