SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Got scammed for a new phone
DATE: 2024-06-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1dlop7z/got_scammed_for_a_new_phone/

--- POST TEXT ---

I got called yesterday by someone presenting themselves as my mobile provider (Fido). Heavy Indian accent but I didn't care too much as it's often the case with customer service in the Canada.

They were offering me a new phone plan about 15% off as well as a change of phone (Pixel 8) for cheaper. I received an email a few days earlier about a promotion for the phone plan a few days earlier, and thought it was about that I was called. The phone is also about 20% off on Google's website so made sense to me price wise.

After presenting the offer, no red flags, so I said yes, and was transferred to a "sale agent" who verified info (name, surname, birth date, account number, email, address for shipping) and gave me a confirmation number for the order. 
Again, until then, nothing too worrying aside from asking me for my account number which does not really make sense since they were in my account but I didn't think too much of it at the time as my mobile provider also asks for that number when I call them, for verification purposes. I was told a "verification officer" would call me to confirm my identity and then would allow the phone shipping.

The verification agent is were things got weird. They gave me everything I gave before and asked for my driver's license number and expiration date. Might sound weird in some countries but here, it can be asked for credit checks, as I did it when opening my account with said operator. I ticked at the time but did not think much of it.
They then asked which bank I was with. This put everything red for me. I was thinking "f*ck it's a scam" and refused to say, telling them that I've been with them for years and they can just check my account. Guy did not push, repeated every info they got, and told me I'd receive an email. Gave me an order number and a number to call back to.

Well, I did receive an email this morning. From my phone provider. For an iPhone 15 Max about three time the price of a Pixel, and my phone plan would also be more expensive by about 20%.
Immediately hoped on my provider website to chat with an agent and they told me it was a fraud. We cancelled the order (though I received an email saying it's been shipped).
Everything got reimbursed/cancelled and I expect no issues from the provider as a fraud report and lengthy comment was made on my account.

But now, I'm worried, my driver's license number has multiple numbers to identify it: a number with some personal information embedded (some letters, date of birth) and a reference number (fully random). Not sure if they can do much since I did not give the reference number that usually is requested, but I'm still worried since they managed to pass for me and order a different phone and plan.

I plan to go to the police and already reported to my government the fraud.

Tldr: got scammed by a phone call to change my plan and order a phone that got shipped to my address, gave my driver's license number, but cancelled everything with my provider and now I'm not sure if they can do anything with my Canadian driver licence number.