SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Travelocity Scam
DATE: 2024-12-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1h3x3al/travelocity_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys, just want to share an incident happened with me yesterday. Someone pinged me on Telegram for part time work and claimed her as the Manager of Travelocity group which seems like a travel agency. I was badly looking for some part time work to increase my income so I said YES to her then someone from the group pinged me and claimed her as my Team lead. She asked about my details like Name, Age and Bank details and I provided her my details but everything secondary as I used to have two numbers and accounts where I barely keep any balance so then she gave me a Platform link where i just had to click on "Orders" and click "Submit" 30 times for two rounds and I got 760RS just for submissions. So that was the first day.
Second day she told me to submit the task again but this time she told me to recharge my wallet with 10k rupees. I got some negative intuitions but I saw some people in the group were paying that money and getting the withdrawal also so I got some trust and tried to deposit 10k in my wallet. They also used to have a Customer Support in telegram who will provide you the merchant accounts to pay the money and I paid 10k amount and luckily I was able to get 16k in return. So I was happy that I made 6700 in two days without any effort so here comes the third day. They posted that their company has now more than 100k members so they have some special offers like if you pay 35k then you will get 70k in return. this was the smallest amount there so after thinking a lot and seeing people in the group who were paying a lot of money and also doing the withdrawals so I also thought to invest 35k and how fool I was. I paid 35k to them then I started clicking on Submissions on the platform and all of a sudden my wallet shows negative amount of 72k and I got tensed then I contacted the customer service and they told that it is a Deluxe order so I will get 1lakh in return if I pay and complete the submissions. I again paid 72k money and I completed my first round of submissions then started second round and again I got my balance as negative as 170k which was very huge amount and again they said to pay and I will get 410k in return but this time I contacted my friends then they scolded me first then told me not to pay anything but still I have spent my more than 1lakh rupees there and now I got stuck. I have raised a fraudulent transaction with the bank and please suggest if I should report it to cybercrime but I am afraid of any police action and involvement of my family in it. Please suggest if there is any possibilities to get my money back? 

Note- please never trust on anyone from WhatsApp and Telegram who give you such offers. Also please suggest me any solution guys.