SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Cannot believe I lost 22K
DATE: 2019-09-06
SCORE: 53
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/d0aetl/cannot_believe_i_lost_22k/

--- POST TEXT ---

Wow. The way I feel after losing 22K in an internet scam is just as bad as anyone can imagine. 

My Chase card rep called me with suspicious activity on a Wednesday and the card was cancelled because I hadn't made the transaction. So I was already feeling that I'd been compromised. On Monday, Apple called me and said they'd seen suspicious activity in my iCloud account. I was transferred to a "specialist" and he explained there was suspicious activity on my account. His accent told me he was from India, and his phone location was Cupertino. I asked to speak to his supervisor, and he also sounded as if he was from India, and confirmed what the "specialist" had told me. It was unbelievable how convincing, articulate, and savvy these guys were. After HOURS on the phone, and after I let him remote into my computer, he convinced me to go buy Target gift cards for 2K and then read him the numbers on the phone. He said the hackers were in my Wells Fargo account and when he deposited the money they would see it and it would result in activity and then they could be traced. He showed me certificates of security for one of my accounts and had my computer activity on the screen so he could monitor it. (Have you figured out yet how stupid I was??) I could go on, but I can't put myself through the pain. I am a teacher, 65, and will have to take the money out of my small Roth IRA in order to pay down my credit cards with which I bought the Target gift cards. As I said, there is much more to this story as far as the lengths they went to persuade me to buy the cards. Suffice it to say, I feel like I'll never give my money situation straightened out again, and I was looking at retirement in 2 years. That may have to wait. 

Police did a 2 hour report, and I called Target corporate. All the gift cards have been cashed, of course, and the policeman said the likelihood of every recouping any of my money was practically nonexistent. Even though all my credit cards have fraud prevention, they said since I purchased the cards, that I'm liable. $22,000 - unbelievable!