SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Got an IVR fraud call pretending to be ministry of telecommunications
DATE: 2024-03-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1b4rfwu/got_an_ivr_fraud_call_pretending_to_be_ministry/

--- POST TEXT ---

Dear Bangaloreans ,
Today at about 10:30 AM , I got an IVR call saying they will block all my phone numbers linked with my Aadhar card. To report press 9 to our customer care and report a theft dial 0 

I pressed 0 , they connected to a customer support and informed me that my Aadhar card (saying my Aadhar card number) is linked with another phone number “6007594261” which is not mine and many fraudulent activities are happening from this number . Telecom department has decided to block all my numbers , to report problems you have to connect with Mumbai crime branch and ask them to raise a complaint 

They then forwarded my number to Mumbai police which also had an IVR TUNE , a message hold to call Mumbai police in English and Marathi and then transferred the call to a pretend to be officer .

This officer later called me on WhatsApp, they called me on a video call and asked me that I’m involved in money laundering which made a transaction of 6.48 crores , they said they have my Aadhar details and links pointing to hdfc bank saying I have was involved with Sandeep Saudi .. they interrogated me for 3 hours , making me go numb and asked me with I comply with them fully in a video call or they will send police to my house . I was scared and said I will comply in the video and they interrogated me for about 2 hours . They made sure my door is locked , no one’s in the room as it would hamper the case and asked my bank details . They even has a walkie-talkie where they mentioned that this person is a suspect and should be taken to custody . They even had a list of suspects asking me to identify them

I was hell bent and shook , after talking alone for 2 hours they asked me to call send money to a desired account and so that they can check if my account was involved in fraudulent. I am sad to inform, I was on video call and sent them 50k via IMPS . They were keen on investigating my entire amount and gave me some document that I have to read during call.

Later after sending 50k I realised it was a scam. I have immediately called my bank and reported fraud but they don’t have anything , I have raised a complaint via cyber crime as well. Any leads will help. 
My message to others is they there were a team of 3 people dressed as a police officer and inside a replica of police station of sorts , they showed me in a video call for 10 secs . Scams have gone bizarre, for everyone so that they can save their loved ones 

Cheers