SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: This just happened to me - Very long
DATE: 2022-03-31
SCORE: 31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/tt1eu4/this_just_happened_to_me_very_long/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just went through this exact process yesterday. I was contacted via text and asked to do an interview via Wire. They asked a lot of questions including an address they can mail the check to. The questions were standard interview questions, nothing requiring excessive information. They said they would be mailing me a check for software and equipment needed for work. I had to check in this morning for more "updates" and I would receive my offer letter, company information and W-2 / W-4 forms via email. Which I didn't get.

When I checked this morning they asked me to pay $250 via Zelle or Paypal for additional equipment and they would reimburse me. THIS WAS A RED FLAG. "This was done to build trust between the company and myself for our future relationship" I was to only use their selected longtime vendor partner to purchase these equipment. 

I told them I am unable to pay until next week, they stopped the interview process and told me to check in tomorrow at 8AM for more "updates". I asked what are the programmes so I can familiarise myself with them. they told me I will get that next week...when supposedly I pay for them. 

I called the company number Astrozen Pharmaceuticals PVT Ltd. It is registered in the US but the number is out of India. The person who answered the phone did not answer with the company name, and sounded like they were outside purchasing something or talking to someone. ( Person asked "how much" while speaking to someone else.) They also barely understood a word I said in English. I asked which company this was and then they responded Astrozen Pharmaceuticals.

I pretended to be moving to India and looking for a job with their company, he did not understand a word I said and asked for "Jessica"

After coming off the call I deleted all messages sent in Wire and blocked "Henderson Perez". 

I did not give them any information other than my business address and the bank I use, no account info or other confidential information for the bank. I have sent a fraud notification to my bank just in case they try to use my address to get info.