Hi, I have been using Airtel mobile no. [protected] since past 3-4 years. I had no complaints till they started deducting money from my pre-paid number without me using the services. Like today only, Rs 30 were deducted within 5 minutes and i got 2 different messages saying that i had used internet, whereas my phone was lying on the table. I had never called their customer care department earlier and always felt bad for the customer care executives who were abused by people, but today i came to know why these Airtel Scamming Executives are abused. They are definitely not well read, these Airtel Scamming people are rude, and these Airtel Scamming people have no knowledge whatsoever. That stupid  was telling me that i might have pressed zero while phone was in my pocket like he had seen me do it, or i had used the services of this Scamming Telecommunications company--The Airtel Scammers.com and was objecting that i was being charged I work in IT dept. and know what technology is, and i know if i use the net how much i use it. Mr. Bharti, you are rich enough already, so please have mercy on the poor people of this developing country and dont fill your coffers by scamming honest people.This happened in past couple of months too but i just ignored it thinking i will change the number to some other service provider. But now enough is enough, Airtel Scamming people has really got on my nerves this time. I dont mind paying you airtel scammers if i use the service, but charging me for no fault of mine, & deducting another rupee for chatting to that rude airtel scamming executive of yours. This is not just done. I dont want to sound cheap, but airtel scammers are cheap and this is  the only way to deal with you guys. I  mean you charge and extra rupee from every customer and you make millions as you have so many customers, so now your greed grows so much that you start deducting 100s of rupees for services that a person has never even used.Shame on You guys...At least hire people who are graduates to talk to the customer who your company Airtel is scamming…these +2 pass Airtel Scamming Executives are underpaid n overworked. We don’t even need any foreign power to screw our economy when our local vultures are feeding on the already oppressed people.