SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank account on hold
DATE: 2023-08-12
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15okfux/bank_account_on_hold/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a freelance/contract IT services worker who gets paid in crypto and also does crypto trading. In March this year my elderly mother fell very sick with covid spread my husband and I decided that it was time for us to move her to a separate home to keep her safe. Since we go outdoors and might carry the virus back to her.

We found a nice property in Bangalore. Instead of struggling with loans, we thought we could cash in our crypto Whicg had been growing in value. So I moved my crypto from Binance to Wazirx and was withdrawing 5 lakhs a day into my union bank account. Towards the last week of July the builder said that he preferred us to make the bulk of payments by July 31st. Since wazirx has a daily withdrawal limit of 5 lakhs i used p2p for the rest of the funds.

On August 2nd I paid 30% advance tax on every rupee that had come in, and also a bit extra just to be safe. However on Friday (yesterday) evening I got a message stating: "Dear Customer, your A/c ***** has been put on hold. For any queries, kindly contact your branch.Union Bank of India".

Since it's the second weekend of the month I can't even go over to the bank today to find out what happened. So I called the Union Bank helpline and the said that there seems to be an email from cyber crime, which led to freezing of my account. And that I should meet the manager at my bank branch to unfreeze it. 

I've been reading several posts and what I've understood so far is:
1. I shouldn't have used p2p because there's no way to track whether the buyer is using legitimate funds (I foolishly thought that all funds in bank accounts are legitimate and only cash is a problem.)
2. It's going to take ages for the account to get unlocked and there's going to be a lot of running around. 
3. The cyber crime complaint could be from s user claiming to have sent funds but didn't receive USDT. Again a complex process to prove, depending on where the case gas been filed. 
4. The buyer of my crypto could have used fraudulent funds and all accounts that he sent money to have been blocked. And it will continue to remain blocked till the case is solved, which may take years or decades. 

With this being the case, what is my way forward? I will be able to meet them bank manager only on Monday to get more info on what exactly happened. If they've flagged not account for large transactions coming in, I have copies of my advance tax paid, to prove that I have no intention of cheating on taxes. 

If it's some other complaint, I really can't afford to travel around, even if I get a lawyer. My mother needs my constant care. So can I give a lawyer complete authorization to handle it from start to finish, without me getting involved? 

Suppose this is going to go back and forth, what happens if I don't request for my account to be unfrozen? Yes I will lose the funds. But what other consequences will there be? Will it stop me from opening another account? Will I be blacklisted somewhere? Will there be a civil or criminal case against me? I know this might sound silly, but these are thoughts shooting through my head right now. I'd be really grateful for any advice or suggestions on the way forward, with the circumstances I mentioned in mind. 

Thank you so much!