SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Telegram Prepaid Tasks Scam allert!!!!
DATE: 2024-09-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1fhwhou/telegram_prepaid_tasks_scam_allert/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today, i am going to tell you all about my recent scammed incident. This all started on 4th September. I received a whatsapp message from an unknown number 6265001262 regarding some work from home job. As a graduate and currently not employed yet, i thought why not say 'ok'. She said (i think it's a dude tbh) to subscribe some YouTube channels and send a screenshot. I did as she said and after that told me to to join a telegram account from where i am gonna be payed. I agreed and joined the telegram account. She was called the receptionist. She asked me a bunch of simple questions like my profession, age, name and all. After all this, i was really paid 117rs though it was from some unknown upi id. Then the receptionist told me to join another telegram account where daily tasks would be offered, I thought it was genuine so i joined that account and did the similar task they told me to, subscribing youtube channels and i received 117 a couple of times. For each task they offered 39 rs. I was told that You cannot withdraw 39rs, you have to do follow up tasks until your earnings cross rs 100. So, basically you have to do three tasks after which you can get 117 rs (i.e, 39+39+39=117rs). I did the tasks and after earning 3-4 hundred of rupees, They told to invest 1000rs on 6th September, and said i cannot skip this task, if i did they will reduce the ammount for each task from 39rs to 5rs and if i skip other task too then the ammount would be reduced to 1rs per task. As i am an idiot, i did the task (they call it some commission task or something) where i had to join another telegram account of some tutor dude and do some trading in a sketchy website but surprise-surprise in return i got 1300 rs. Then 3 regular task were given and after that another premium task appeared. This time, they told me to diposit 3000 rs, i was like hell no and skipped that task. Next day, receptionist again told me to continue the pending task, as i already told you i am an idiot so i deposited 3000rs. This time something different happened. First The tutor dude made another telegram account with 5 members including me and him and named thi account as some class. After trading 3000 rs we were told to invest extra ammount for additional privilege task. There were different plans, we all went for plan a because it wass cheap 1500rs. And to my surprise we received 6k + rs. Then again regular task appeared and appeared another commission task. This time they told me to invest 7000rs. I didn't do it that day. But next day again as i am a moron, i invested 7000 rs. This time again every thing happened same to same as happened previously except the additional privilege task. The tutor dude told us that this time again we have to invest extra amount. And guess what the cheapest plan a was of whopping 39k rs. I had only 16k left in my account after investing that 7k. I told the tutor about my situation, but he just replied try your best and complete the task. I got scared, what to do now. I borrowed 10k from one of my friend although after this the Total was 26k. Still 13k less. I told the receptionist that i couldn't arrange 39k so she told me to deposit 26k only rest 13k she will arrange. so i did. Now, after this the tutor dude is saying due to some of my error i have to do some supplementary task and deposit 50k. I initially agreed and asked for some time. During this i did the regular task for which i received 117rs a couple of times from different accounts. 
Until few days back, i watched some YouTube videos regarding such scams and then realized i have been scammed. 
I have only 30rs left in my account. I do tution and all those money were my hard earned money. I promised to buy a TV for my mom and dad. But now because of my foolishness and greed i cannot do all that. 
I am attaching some screenshots here please send this post to all your friends and family and make them aware of such scams.