SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Desperate for Advice: Girlfriend's Mom got Scammed
DATE: 2023-09-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/16tecdg/desperate_for_advice_girlfriends_mom_got_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Background: My girlfriend's mom lost her husband a little over a year ago. She's a government employee, she's lonely most of the time, she's super rich, has a disability, she's vulnerable to trusting people easily.
Last night, I noticed my girlfriend was visibly upset. After some persistent questioning, she finally opened up. Her mom started communicating with someone on Facebook about four months ago, possibly seeking companionship for her later years. My girlfriend only found out about this situation last night after wishing her mom for birthday and giving a gift, and the details she learned were little as her mom didn't tell much.

Investigation: Sensing something was off, I took it upon myself to investigate at 3 am. I looked up her mom's profile and through that I found a man who matched the description my girlfriend told me. The man's Facebook profile had numerous inconsistencies, including a mismatch between the username and the claimed country of origin. Using Yandex, I discovered that the man had been using photos of a well-known Middle Eastern lawyer. And also I've found a match of the username url and the early "like" by a guy on the dp, I surfed LinkedIn and found that the guy is a computer science engineer. Also he's from the scammer's capital of India. Despite realizing the scam, we hit a roadblock; today morning I came to know that my girlfriend's mom had already sent him 30 lakhs two weeks ago for a bogus "customs duty.". She got loan too. 

Complications: Making matters worse, my girlfriend's brother, unaware of the implications, blocked the scammer's account(WhatsApp). This rash action likely diminishes the chances for law enforcement to further investigate and catch the culprit. Luckily it was not blocked on Facebook. I immediately told to unblock on WhatsApp and stay casual and be less suspicious that her mom found out the truth. 

Current Situation: Today is her mom's birthday, and the emotional weight of the situation is immense. I've advised my girlfriend and her brother to file a cyber complaint immediately. Given that her mom doesn't know about me, my involvement has to be discreet. I'm at a loss and deeply concerned about the financial and emotional repercussions for her family. Any advice on how to proceed, especially after the ill-advised blocking of the scammer's account, would be much appreciated.