SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Paranoid about  my dad's stolen wallet
DATE: 2024-03-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bbbu0r/paranoid_about_my_dads_stolen_wallet/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, today my dad's wallet got pickpocketed at the train station. 
The wallet contained:
a) Aadhar card ( the old laminated copy which came in plastic covering)
b) cash(there wasn't much money)
I confirmed that luckily he didn't take the bank cards , pan or driver's license in the wallet. 

I am paranoid about the misuse of the Aadhar card, can I get some advice on what to do?

I checked the subreddit regarding similar incidents and usually it was told to file an FIR, I asked him to do so, and he refused to. ( We're in kolkata and he doesn't like the way the usual police acts, it's possible that they send him off, i don't know the process of it being online)

I'm worried about possible chances of
 a) identity theft
b) sim swap
I don't know the other things which are possible.

Will registering an fir prevent the possibility of identity theft?

I'm also aware that Addhar probably has been leaked already in the internet due to crappy cybersecurity management of the government websites. 
But since wallet got stolen i have a paranoia that now it can be targetted. ( It can just be petty theft, which would be nice for my mental health. But I don't want to take any chances).

Addhar biometrics has already been locked. 

I also got to know about something called " cyber insurance (you can buy it from HDFC/Bajaj). " 
Are they even one bit useful? 

Good thing that the phone did not get stolen, that would have been way worse. 

What i learnt today is:
Tell my parents, to not carry important government identity cards in their wallets. 
It's already available in digilocker so there's no need.
Debit card can be avoided with using UPI.
Reminder to lock the sim to the phone/ prefer e-sim. 
So that if phone is stolen then the guy can't put the sim in another phone and use it.