SUBREDDIT: r/IndiaInvestments
TITLE: Mf direct plans vs regular plan: is it ever a q to ask?
DATE: 2018-09-15
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/IndiaInvestments/comments/9fun49/mf_direct_plans_vs_regular_plan_is_it_ever_a_q_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

tldr: arent (direct plans + fee based advisor) certainly surely better than regular plans in all possible scenarios?

1 Popular media seems to be misunderstand Direct Plans though recently some big publications are writing (grudgingly) slightly less negatively using buffet $
2 Broker (and Broker mouthpieces) also claim Direct Plans are hoopla
3 some prominent bloggers and MF Gyan related websites also have recently joined the anti- Direct Plan brigade. They get ad money from mfs

Use mf websites or cams/karvy or free portals for direct plans or all 3 depending on your convenience and options 

here's my 2 bits on the cons of Direct Plans so eloquently put together by these 3 (presuming benefits are adequately articulated)
 pissd at why mutual funds and sebi are not coming out openly in support of direct plans. half my money is in regualr plans and i want to know if im screwed for shifting to direct. 

Arguments against Direct Plans by 3 above and my counters.

Direct Plans are not for novice investors because they will make bad decisions and lose their shirts
 &gt;and Regular Plan investors are better off because they are advised by fresh college pass-outs who the system trains to lock investor savings in Insurance Plans with no exit and returns that don't even beat inflation. Because higher commissions for the company , higher incentives for the employee is good for the novice investor

Direct Plan investors will sell their holdings at first sight of a downturn and book losses and hate mutual funds forever
 &gt; and Regular Plan investors will be sold closed ended funds by advisors so they are stuck for 3-5 years or the guy who sold them the mutual fund will soon change his job so the company can blame the previous employee for the soup you are in. 

 Direct Plan investor do not have access to an advisor so they are doomed
 &gt; not sure if these smart publications and brokers have heard of fee only RIAs. there are many who will charge you a fee and give you advice on your portfolio. you can invest in direct plans from the MF website directly if you want. 
And arent brokers legally not allowed to be called advisors or offer any advice. they can only help you fill the forms and collect the cheque and NOT GIVE ADVICE. no broker telling me its a bad time to invest a big chunk of money into the latest NFO or a reminder that what i "invested" in last year was an insurance plan and all my money will be forfeited if i dont continue to pay the premium for the next 5 years. 

Direct plans portals will steal our data and will sell them on every street where there's a buyer. 
 &gt; Suppose they actually do, then what. i know about data security and without physical access to you, your phone, your wifi how will someone make money from that data. they cant call me to sell something if im on dnd, they cant email scam me unless i reslly want that fortune from the african diamond mine, they wont pay my taxes using my pan,they cant redeem my holdings in sime other bank acciunt coz sbei will take away the mf license if they start giving my money to anyone who asks nicely.
its invasion of my privacy alright and i will run hard and fast from a portal if i sense foul play of this kind
&gt; and yaah, brokers are bound by omerta to not use my data when they change jobs. just then i got a call "Hello ma'am, just joined xxx broker and i would like you to move all your business here. 1 exciting new product from suckudry scheme is here and i would like you to sell all your investments in alreadysuckedudry scheme and move. aajao"

SEBI asked mutual funds to launch Direct plan for advanced investors
&gt; Tappuḍu, if this were true SEBI would have been like
" There's no misselling by brokers and they deserve the 1% commission they get from mutuals every year even without doing anything. 
the billion dollars in mf commissions alone plus much more than that in insurnace commisions is justified
2.5%+ expense ratio seems about right for novice investors because ...expensive=quality
introduce direct plans but allow only investments above 5 lakhs or something because direct plans are only for advanced investors."

am I missing something that these 3 know about regular plans