SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: I don’t know what is happening anymore
DATE: 2022-09-04
SCORE: 76
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/x5meed/i_dont_know_what_is_happening_anymore/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’ll probably delete this in sometime, but here we go: 

Edit one - it’s a long one

Edit two - cousin confessed that his took money to party and have fun along with games (so girls alcohol - prob drugs and gambling of some sort). Also got to know from his parents that this is the 2nd time and last year he had his run with his dad’d credit card - he was NOT given an ass whooping. 

Edit three: 69 upvotes!! 😂

Update: the hole goes deeper - it’s more that 2 ~ 2.5 lacs - I have put down my foot - I am not paying anymore (have done whatever was thrown at me till yesterday) he keeps saying party and chill. I AM DONE - THIS IS FUCKING NUTS!!!

Yesterday I got a message from an unknown number showing the PAN Card of my cousin with Hindi text (roughly translated eff my mom for 20 rupees - call &lt;insert cousin number&gt;) - apparently he had taken money from a bunch of these loan apps (that are not on playstore) and decided not to pay anymore (looks like he has been doing it from an year and has been running a Ponzi scheme - where he takes one loan to pay another and was not able maintain it anymore)

Now these are all 7 day loans thing and - I was tasked to pay it off (with a promise from my mom and the cousin’s dad that they will pay me back) - everything we paid off today was taken in the last 20 days and it’s more that 1.15 lacs with still 15k pending.

Pulled his credit report (more that 65 closed accounts with 15 active and 5 overdue)

Now everyone wants to know where he spent that much - first he told he invested it - searched his mail - saw he did it with ICICI securities (he did invest something last year - he brought a single NAV for 40 rs) 

Now he tells he was being blackmailed - but his money taking tendencies seem to have preceded the event (says someone blackmailed him saying they will morph his images ) - also says he does not have any evidences of the blackmail (no screenshots nothing) he shows payment means (that he paid some one - but never the same UPI I’d twice - supposedly going on from an year).

He is a student - just started his degree (future doc) - I don’t know what to do or say - I want to give a police complaint - but I don’t know if I should believe him anymore!!!!

Any advices? Is it realistic? I am weary as this guy has consistently lied - up until his grandmother got a phone it absolutely denied taking the loan!!