SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Pak’s FM Dar, Chinese counterpart call for peace, stability amid West Asia tensions
AUTHOR: Sajjad Hussain
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/world/paks-fm-dar-chinese-counterpart-call-for-peace-stability-amid-west-asia-tensions/2890703/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Islamabad, Mar 27 (PTI) Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar on Friday spoke with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi and discussed the ongoing efforts for peace in West Asia.
Deputy Prime Minister Dar said in a statement on X that he exchanged views with Wang, who is also a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, on the evolving situation in West Asia.
The two sides reaffirmed the need to restore peace and stability in the West Asia and the wider region.
Show Full Article
“We agreed to support all efforts aimed at ensuring an immediate end to hostilities, resumption of peace talks, protection of non-combatants, security of shipping lanes, and adherence to the UN Charter,” he said.
The two also agreed to continue our endeavours for the resolution of all disputes through dialogue and diplomacy.
Foreign Minister Wang conveyed China’s appreciation and support to Pakistan for its ongoing efforts in this regard, according to Dar.
The contact was established a day after Chinese ambassador Jiang Zaidong met Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif where Dar was also present, according to a statement by the PM Office.
The ambassador appreciated Pakistan’s “economic resilience” and pledged China’s continued support for trade and investment for the country.
Separately, Dar also spoke with the Foreign Minister of Turkiye, Hakan Fidan, to discuss the latest regional and international situation, according to foreign Office.
“The two leaders exchanged views on recent developments and underscored the importance of dialogue and sustained diplomatic efforts to promote peace and stability,” FO said.
They agreed to remain closely engaged on this issue. PTI SH AMS
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.