SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: SubscriberWrites: Deepfake and AI Fraud: India Must Prepare for the Next Cyber Threat
AUTHOR: Shaikh Irfan
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/yourturn/subscriberwrites-deepfake-and-ai-fraud-india-must-prepare-for-the-next-cyber-threat/2887463/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Thank you dear subscribers, we are overwhelmed with your response.
Your Turn is a unique section from ThePrint featuring points of view from its subscribers. If you are a subscriber, have a point of view, please send it to us. If not, do subscribe here:
https://theprint.in/subscribe/
A
I is growing fastly and now it is used in many services in India which people are using. This technology can be leveraged for fraud detection, enhancing medical services and automating business processes. Nonetheless, cybercriminals are equally employing the same technology.
One of the most serious emerging threats due to AI is the use of deepfake and other AI-generated identities for fraud. Thanks to deep-fake technology, a criminal can create fake videos, audio and images that appear exactly like real ones.
Show Full Article
It only takes a couple of seconds of voice recording and/or one photo, even if removed from social media. AI tools can generate deepfake communications that are difficult to differentiate from the original.
It could put at risk a person, an enterprise or even a nation. Criminal Activity in India: Fraudsters in India are already employing fake identities and impersonation aided by technologies like deepfake videos and AI-generated identities for computer-based financial frauds.
At present, AI has made it like impersonating someone but in a much realistic way. Using artificial intelligence, a scammer can create a voice clip of a company manager and instruct the employee to transfer.
As it sounds like a known voice, the employees follow the order without questioning it. In the same vein, scam artists are now targeting families.
It is possible to create a duplicate voice of a family member and impersonate them in a crisis. Similarly, a scammer requests urgent financial assistance.
In a scenario where stress is present, the victim serves the request immediately without checking it out. Altered videos in the form of Deepfakes are another tool to spread misinformation. Fake videos create confusion and trouble for celebs or government authorities. The rapid dissemination of digital content, such as on social media channels, can ensure false information reaches millions instantly.
India’s rising digital service usage over the years makes these incidents quite alarming for the government and the country. Each year, a huge number of new Internet users come online in the country who are not fully aware of how advanced cyber fraud is and which platform is catching new users.
Like the recent instance, identifying a deepfake fraud might be difficult, but there are red flags. It’s quite reasonable to ask for money or any favor if you are not expecting it from someone. You shouldn’t buy into emergency requests or scary tactics; they demand verification.
Verify if the communication or behavior from that person seems out of the ordinary. Whenever you get the message even if it’s from a known number or account, ask them through a different method of communication to verify.
It is easy to do this now! People should take care in sharing voice notes, personal videos and other sensitive information in a public group or social site, unless necessary. Just like do not share your bank or other details in public groups as fraudsters are always alert.
Furthermore, routinely examine your privacy settings on social media to maximize your security. In the same manner, organizations must strengthen internal verification.
Likewise, a firm rule should be that multiple team approvals are in place for money transfers or sharing sensitive useful information. Ensure clear and official communication to avoid these scams.
Employees must be trained to always confirm any instructions going around in the team, especially if it is not a team member.
Cybersecurity has moved beyond computers now. We are talking about human beings, identity, and wealth. Nevertheless, awareness and preparedness must increase in line with technological advancements. Citizens should become aware of the threats posed by Deepfake & AI fraud.
India’s digital progress depends on trust. Protecting that trust requires awareness, responsible technology use, and strong cybersecurity practices at every level of society.
Author Bio:
Shaikh Irfan is a cybersecurity professional based in Hyderabad, India. He holds an MS in Information Technology with specialization in Cybersecurity, has worked as a Security Analyst, and is currently conducting independent research on cybercrime, AI-driven threats, and digital banking security. He is also a member of the IEEE.
These pieces are being published as they have been received – they have not been edited/fact-checked by ThePrint.