SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Olx Scam
DATE: 2024-06-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1dppga8/olx_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am moving houses and the one that I'm moving into is a fully furnished one. So I had to sell my existing furniture. I was already posting ads on Facebook but I just wanted to check out olx as well. 

I put the ad at 7 am and within 5 mins, I got 4 chat requests saying that they are interested. I shared my number with one of them and they called me. They said they are from a furniture reseller and would like to purchase my furniture at the quoted price without any negotiation. 

I was surprised because I thought I was selling it at a lower price and I could make more. Anyway, they said to close my ad from the platform and said they would pay a token amount of 2k for closing the deal and remaining when they come to collect it. 

I said sure and shared my UPI ID. They said they are paying via debit card and can't proceed with UPI ID (honestly wtf is this?). I said no issues, they can pay the full amount once they come to collect it. 

They said it would take time so they sent me a QR code and asked me to scan it. I was wondering how scanning any code would transfer money to my account but I gave him the benefit of the doubt. My suspicions were right because when I scanned it, it was asking me to enter the amount and enter the pin. I told him the same and he said that by entering the pin, money will get into my account. Lmaooo.

He said transfer Rs 1 and he would show me how. I did and immediately he sent me Rs 1. That's when I knew it was a scam and I told him that this looks too shady. He can pay me when he comes for the pick up. 

He kept trying to convince me to enter Rs 2000 and enter the pin. I immediately cut the call and he sent me very weird messages on WhatsApp saying that I'm dumb for not understanding how UPI works. Lol. 

Anyway, all the chats that I got from olx turned out to be similar scams from different numbers. This scammer had me in the first half. Imagine if any of our parents use the platform and fall for this scam because they are very convincing. 

Please tell your parents the way to use UPI and never fall for these scams.