SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: So can i put a complaint against Croma for not delivering my order?
DATE: 2021-03-11
SCORE: 37
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/m2mwpf/so_can_i_put_a_complaint_against_croma_for_not/

--- POST TEXT ---

So i ordered a ps5 on the 12th of January. Croma took my order. The delivery date was between 2nd feb and 7th feb. Now, when it was the 2nd feb, i didn't get any information from Croma about my order as to where it is. I called literally everyday talking to different people of customer support. Now they literally guaranteed a delivery before the 7th or on the 7th. Every single one of them GUANRANTEED. I didn't even get the invoice so i knew something was wrong. On the 7th, i get a call from CS from mumbai branch. The person who i was talking to told me that it was out of stock. Now she asked me if i can wait till the 12th of March. I said no. BUT after all of that. I had no choice but to wait for my order. Also in between this. I also put out a complaint stating i haven't even gotten the invoice. CS told me that this issue will be fixed within 24 hours. I waited. NEXT MORNING, i get the message, "issue has been fixed". I checked for the invoice. Nope, nothing was there. They literally lied. They have caused alot of inconvenience to me. Giving me misinformation. Lying straght to my face. Now i ordered on the 12th of Jan. I know as a FACT they took orders again on the 2nd of FEB. So they didn't deliver my order of 12th of Jan but they surely did take orders on the 2nd of feb. Well sooo many things happened here. If they have just told me before that it's out of stock before the 7th. I would have ordered again from other site. They are literally telling me it's out of stock after the 7th. And in the end they don't have to pay anything. They'll just say sorry like they did already and do things their own way. I will just keep sitting here after i payed them 50,000Rs. It's the 11th of March. I have no information where my order is. No information when it's gonna get delivered. 

&amp;#x200B;

sorry if this post is a little confusing. Like there's alot that has happened. I kinda tried to tell you everything but it's all jumbled lol. Anyway, can i do anything about this, MISINFORMATION? Lying to my face? FRAUD?

I was kinda bummed out my ps5 didn't get delivered. But it was fine. I could wait. It's just that just tell me when it's gonna get delivered. They are just teasing me at this point lmao.

Edit: i just talked to CS. They said they have no info on my order. 
I ORDERED ON THE 12TH OF JAN. Can i have anything from you. Something? Like what am i supposed to do here?