This is my grievance towards violation of law through providing wrong information and fraud with client committed by Test book employee Mr Akshay Bawne. I REQUEST TO READ THIS THOROUGHLY AND COMPLETELY I wanted a course for MPSC combine, so I used testbook app for first time in December end. 2 days later I recieved a call from testbook through Akshay Bawne. He gave me overall orientation and all which all sales person give. For my exam he suggested me course of MPSC group A; where I clearly mentioned I want to prepare for group B combined which was to be conducted on 30 April, 2023. To this Mr Bawne said, group B will be covered in group A course as well. The course was for 4700 which I purchased on January 15, 2023 through him as his lead. Obviously he talked first with me to get commission, which is common buisness model of all platforms. He also assured he will provide WhatsApp and calling support whenever I need. 6-7 days after I purchased the course. Testbook launched a new course of 100 days preparation for MPSC group B and C combined; which was exactly what I wanted. I called Mr Bawne and asked about it, as this course was more objective and upto the syllabus, the first course was of no use to me as it had vaste syllabus and I needed to segregate things on my own. On that Mr Akshay said you purchase this second course which was for 2400, and we will refund your previous course amount to you. I say again HE SAID YOU TAKE ANOTHER COURSE AND WE WILL REFUND YOUR PREVIOUS COURSE FEES TO YOU!!!"He assured me this on behalf of testbook platform, without consulting with other authorities. Upon asking again and again if he is sure about this, he said "you will get refund only if you go through me. Take another course if you trust me. I will make your refund within 15 days" he said to preserve the bill paid screenshot of both courses for refund, that will be enough. And l trusted him and took another course of 2400 through him, and he got double commission through me. Like this I invested 7100 rupees in two courses. After 15 days I asked about refund he said it's under process and will take time... He never talked about refund from that day. Whenever I called him he never answered on time. After 2 months in March, Upon warning him that I will report this issue to higher authorities, he called me and whitewashed the things by saying they are reviewing your course...they will refund only if you have not used the previous course, they are checking... I have put forth this issue to my boss...he is also reviewing...and all lies... I was also trying to contact the official helpline number of testbook many times but my call was not being picked by them. Again I was mistreated. After few tries when the helpline picked my call, I shared my issue, upon which the lady said..."the course is not refundable ma'am, it's in our policy ma'am, and you purchase the course in January, now it's March, two months have already passed. I also wrote an email for the same on helpline email, and it reverted as it's non refundable. I was so infuriated by this I informed this to Mr Akshay, after that he never picked up my calls or replied my messages as appearently all his lies and games are exposed and there is no scope to further whitewash this issue. Whole April I've been trying to contact him, but the damn liar is not picking up my calls. I am a middle class student studying MPSC, and for every middle class student, every little penny matters. I had literally arranged money for second course through a friend of mine. This man Mr Akshay Bawne gave me wrong information about course 1 and then wrong assurance of refund for course 2. I want to ask this, if course policy is non refundable, then with whose permission he assured me of refund?? Who the hell is he to tell me to purchase another course? He is your employee, works for you, how come he can make such a scam under your name?? He assured me on your behalf (textbook) behalf that the money will be refunded through UPI. He also added that people have got their refunds previously that's why I am telling you?? If people have got refunds previously then why not me??? And why the hell this person was lying from the start?? He assured of calling support as well and now he's maybe so ashamed of his behaviour that he's avoiding my calls beyond limit. According to Indian law for Consumers Protection Act, there is a law for RIGHT TO INFORMATION, which means every consumer has full rights to have full information about the products or services he/she is purchasing. This man Mr Akshay Bawne has just violated that law, as he gave me wrong information about course refund policy and platform services. He has done malpractice with me as well as with Testbook as he promised me a refund on their behalf, without consulting any official higher authorities . Upon calling the helpline number, the lady said in flow "before buying you should have read the policy on website ma'am." Which I found a rude way to talk to consumer. I don't remember her name. I want to ask you, if this person Mr Akshay Bawane who works for you, is your official employee is not aware of the policy, then how come a student who is new to your platform should know the policy? If it's for the client alone to read the policy, search the right course and do everything on his own, then what is the need for tele assistants and leads person like this guy Also wasn't he aware of this second course that was about to launch in January? As he is your employee and I cleared my exam needs, he should have given me information about the upcoming MPSC group B course even before purchasing course A . I would have just waited for that course launch and purchase it through him only as a token of his honesty and fair consumer treatment. But instead he choose to somehow make a sale, as his lead may go out of his hands. He should know all the courses of targeting exams for particular clients, and i[censored]naware atleast he shouldn't give wrong information. I want testbook to thoroughly look into my matter...as poor students like me should not be exploited by platforms like you and your employees. We join your courses so we can earn a decent job and make our lives better, not to become a fool to a sales guy like Mr Akshay and loose our money. From January to May I have spend 5 months in absolute anxiety, pain and grief of loosing 7100 rs. As this amount 5000 was my rent of one months, which I had reserved for exam preparation and trusted this guy and took another course as well. This issue just made me sick and I had mental breakdown. I took this scam so serious that currently I am on anxiety relieving pills and medical rest period. My ultimate goal was to study and crack the exam, but this liar thief and your platform has constantly mistreated me and behaved unethically. I pity this man Mr Bawne that how the cheated a poor student like me just to gain some extra leads commission, without thinking of any morals and ethics. He is so selfish that he's not answering any message or call of mine after trying for whole month I am heartily requesting testbook, I haven't use my course 1 as I was not preparing for that exam, please refund me atleast 70% of amount of that course fees. I purchased second course ONLY and ONLY because your employee Mr Akshay Bawne told me to do so, I purchased it ONLY because he said he will refund the amount through app, he said people have claimed refund previously. I would'nt buy it if I was aware that he saying this without any information and just being buisness minded. I would'nt have bought it if I know the policy. As this man works for testbook and promised me of refund of my course through testbook, it is their responsibility to refund their client. And take required legal actions against Mr Akshay Bawne, without biasing him as you employee. He has literally cheated me, violated the Right To Information protocol for which is unjust, unethical and against law and also largely disturbed my mental health from last 5 months I had sent the following email to the company as well and they assure to reply within 48 hours. But it's been 4 days and even they haven't replied yet. They are not at all consumer friendly. Through this email the consumer form has understood my issue as well Kindly look into the matter and provide justice. Thankyou Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)