Investor Number 1 On March 2019 Kenchappa Hosamani boasts himself as a big forex trader, investor and generating huge returns to his clients. I had invested nearly 1cr believing that this guy can give me a good return (This was my hard-earned money). In the year 2019, I was introduced by another investor and he was at Naagarabhaavi (Rented house) then. There are so many such investors who have invested from 10000rs up to crores. He suddenly vacated the house and moved to a new place without informing the investors. He fooled everyone by telling them that he has bought a very big house which was not true. New innocent people invested heavily until now there is no information about this place. He is contacting some investors from an unknown place and promising them that he will return the money and saying everything is good and he will be back soon. But there are so many police complaints lodged against this guy and he is so confident that he can get bail and come out. He has changed like 3 numbers until now and no one knows his new place and number. His old numbers are [protected], [protected], [protected]. He has been to police stations so many times and has come out without getting punished. This is a sad truth about our justice. If you are being cheated by this guy, Please do share your incident so that this can be escalated, and hope there will be justice served soon. Beware before investing with Kenchappa Hosamani suffered Investors on 02Jan 2022 Hi Friends this Kenchapa Hosamani is very big cheater and he doesn't know anything about Forex trading ect..he target 🎯 only unknown source and big investor by showing his fake Bank statement and says lot's of stories that many of sandalwood hero's and politicians and Police department are his clients and they all invested with him.. all're fake statement and Stories which use to attract new investors... He Cheated more than 20Cr with more than 50+ investors and many police station having FIR against him.. but still he successfully do his cheating jobs He is illiterate guy just 12th class pass not even know English language to deal with clients... Some MLM leaders joined with him now to cheated Big level.. one-off Top Leaders in Forsag @ Qubitec MLM company have joined with him to loot innocents investors money in market..by showing 5 to 10% monthly guaranty returns... Conclusion: Please don't believe him is very big fraud and he Cheated Big people already and now he took thire name's and do his business again.. Suffered Investor number 3 : On 15 Feb 2022 Yes This ### Kenchapa cheated more than 100 innocent investors in multiple cities in India... now'he escaped to Dubai and settled there 'with all investors money and enjoying life with girls... Conclusion : Kenchppa Hosamani Aliace Kumar/ Abhi he is very big fraud and having 50 + Cheating case against him in multipuk cities in India and these basted had 3 + marriages and cheated those innocent poor women's as well given divorce and not even settled their devorce compensation also . Now Enyoing with some other girls with all poor peoles money in dubai . Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (3)