SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: SBI's own insiders are sufficient to tarnish the brand identity and image due to their sheer arrogance
DATE: 2024-05-17
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1cu2npu/sbis_own_insiders_are_sufficient_to_tarnish_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

We had a trip between 26th May 2024 to 30th May 2024 to a few temples around Mangaluru organised by a pilgrimage cum religious group called Nellai Sahasranama Mandali. The trip had two night halts one at Hariharapura and next at Dharmasthala. However later both the halts were clubbed to Hariharapura due to heavy crowd and accommodation crunch at Dharmasthala. 
We had got clubbed with a person called Thenmozhi (+91 98xxx xxxx). The identity of the person as per Truecaller shows up as (Thenmozhi SBI). However despite being from an iconic global brand of India, the person's outlook and concern in the community is absolutely disgusting besides creating a lot of heartburns and this intensifies particularly when the community is on a good spirited like a pilgrimage. I would like to share a set of four incidents (in chronological order) here so that these could be taken as a lesson to counsel the workforce as we are from service industry and our outlook towards others when in duty and/or otherwise does impact the brand identity of the business. 
Incident 1: I got the key from reception and moved towards escalator towing my baggages. Since the escalator had a huge serpentine line piled up, this person went to harass my Senior Citizen mother and told her with arrogance "Your husband already got the keys. Please give the key so that we can move to the room". A bank employee can discriminate between son and husband by look and age. How are they expected to apply due diligence and fraud detection at work? When my mom calmly replied he is my son the response from her with audacity and temerity is 'Ok. So what?'. No apologetic or remorseful gesture found whatsoever. 
Incident 2: At room when we were trying to keep the things ready for next day temple rituals, she was talking a lot of Gyan about room mates and room sharing. However next day morning walked out to Tunga river without even telling us. We were waiting for a long time because we had to lock the room before going to river. Then she is calling that she is returning from river and would collect the key. 
Incident 3: Towards afternoon when we were having the lunch at Mutt, she hastily approached me asking for the keys. I was almost finishing the food and instead of waiting a minute or two she was hurling abuses like crazy. How many times customers are being made to wait at the branches due to staff busy even in other schedules? 
Incident 4: Towards evening we had a trip to Sringeri and came back. We developed a severe headache. So took a few pills and started to take rest and next day we were asked to start early to move towards Dharmasthala. This persona again came and roughed me up to move out of the room for half an hour as she wanted to change her dress (silk saree). I was even not able to open the eyes and the bathroom was dry and clean which she could have used. Additionally the organisers have clearly mentioned multiple times that any room can be used by anyone because the stay is just for sleeping and for other purposes please knock and use whichever room is applicable, available and useable. And for this she again used a few slurs and expletives. 
It was a total irritant and we did not want to spoil the sanctity and sacredness of the pilgrimage. Hence chose to stay muted and avoid her mudslings that potentially got seeded out of ignorance and/or arrogance. 

On a goodwill gesture I have reported the below-said incident to SBI and here so that people can be wary of such speciments around them.