SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: JioFiber technicians running a scam
DATE: 2023-12-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/18lh6yk/jiofiber_technicians_running_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I wonder if this happens only in my locality or also in other places in Pune as well.

2 years ago when JioFiber came to my locality (in Hadapsar), I was marketed and sold a JioFiber internet connection. They have a distribution box (DB) on the terrace of a housing society building next to my house and they gave me a connection from that building. Basically an optical fiber cable connects my router to the mentioned DB. My house is not part of this housing society and I did not know at the time if this matters or not.

An year later, the optical fiber is somehow broken near the DB and connection is lost. So I raise a service request. The technician visits my home and says he won't fix it because my connection is "illegal". Why? because my house is not within this housing society. Then he suggests that he can fix the issue "unofficially", but needs 800 rupees to buy a new cable. I refuse and instead call JioFiber customer care to terminate my connection if it's illegal. Customer care guys tell me that connection is not illegal and the technician must fix the issue. After many calls and visits they finally fix the issue by replacing the cable free of charge.

Now 1 year later, same problem happens again. The cable is broken on the terrace, near the DB, connection is lost, I raise service request and guess what? Same thing happens all over again. This time they have to fix the issue yet but I guess they will come around soon.

Overall it feels like these JioFiber technicians have created a group/gang and they are all in on this. Because even when a new technician is allotted he repeats the same cassette, "illegal connection, I/my friend will fix it unofficially, need 800 rupees to buy the cable". Also this happened exactly after an year in the same month, and exactly after a week or so after I prepaid the bill for next 6 months just like last time.

I am almost sure this is scam so I am wondering if they do it only where I live or all over the Pune.