SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: [NP] Indira Nagar E-commerce Startup Scam
DATE: 2018-02-15
SCORE: 67
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/7xqmct/np_indira_nagar_ecommerce_startup_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Throwaway account for obvious reason. 

Just a public service announcement.

I interviewed for a company called Team ORM based out of Indira Nagar, Bengaluru. The interviewer Usha, called the company “startup” and said they are about to revolutionise e-commerce. They said this is the idea of Mr. Raj, a man whose ideas was Bigbasket and is a consultant at 35+ companies including Bigbazaar and Landmark construction material suppliers. I was asked to join the same day but upon request, I was told to join in 2 days. 

The day I joined, everything was well and good. I was told the e-commerce company would be called Consumerera.in and the website is being built by an IT team in another office. The business works by getting products from China with an investors money in bulk in turn earning profits by selling directly to end-consumer. It is a franchisee model business with people being promised profit in 3 months times with investments starting at 3 lacs. 

I had my doubts regarding Mr. Raj as he is hesitant to come to office during daylight. I was told he visits office after 8 PM when all the employees leave except HR and yells at her to post ads and get other work done. When the Manager and Team Lead went to meet him on Saturday at a 5 star hotel, we asked them to get photo know this mystery person who bosses us on whatsapp groups and calls 

They managed to get video and shared on whatsapp group. A friend of a friend was quick identify that Mr. Raj is [Sachin Naik](https://www.thenewsminute.com/article/rs-1500-cr-b-luru-dreamz-infra-scam-accused-sachin-naik-absconds-days-after-he-got-bail) aka Yogesh who has scammed 1500 crores and is wanted by CID. Archana, Usha and Reshma who all call themselves HR/Directors were well aware of his identity yet preferred to call him "Mr. Raj". 

After much discussion all the employees decided to walk out and started to confront them on whatsapp group. They straightaway denied it wasn’t him until we showed him video proof. They hire non-bangaloreans so employees don’t find his identity if they meet him in person. 

From what I understood these people took us for fools and planned on conning few more crores but made silly mistakes. They have paid us 3 - 10 days salary to keep our mouths shut and not approach media. They are well-organised having done this multiple times even telling us they've got connections and we won't be able to take any legal action. 

Their office is located in an under renovation building basement in Indira Nagar to the left of Little Italy restaurant. 

Edit: Its is CID not CBI.