SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Extramartial affair and Domestic Violence
DATE: 2024-07-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1e9lsmw/extramartial_affair_and_domestic_violence/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: My father 56M has an Extramartial Affair and has been beating my mother 47F over every little thing.
There have been many many incidents but we never went forward and did anything because of Izzat. I need a lawyer. PLEASE DM ME IF YOU live in Delhi. I have absolutely no contacts and I don't know and can't even trust anyone I feel.

I am typing down a long hellish life which me, my brother and my mother have been suffering since 3 long years. I came back from my college and had just started my new Job. We went on a normal Family trip and he seemed to be doing everything but he seemed extremely engrossed in an app called StarMaker (song singing app). It was not a normal obession but a very weird one. My mother noticed him talking and chatting late at night and then after some time confronted him about his habits. straight up denial and it started changing his personality. slowly slowly he started to get ever so angry and angrier. He would then constantly beat my mother at rach instant. She would have not even done anything still something just get angry and start hitting her. He has made our life a living hell... both mentally and emotionally just destroyed my mother. To torture her he will constantly irritate her by singing songs in wee hours (Song is how this kalesh started) about all the disgusting and vile meanings. 

Coming to the proof we have collected. My mother had access to his phone for a little time so she had taken screenshots of the whatsapp exchange (where the affair has shared photos in Nighties and stuff). the affair in question her name is MAYA DEVI. She lives in Bokaro Bihar. You ask how do we knw this. My bastard of a father is sending Nykaa gifts and sarees on her fricking address. 
When all of this had just started he even went on a flight to Ranchi to meet her, lying to us all the time that he was going to bhuvneshwar. My mother even tried stopping him and caught him lying broke his phone so he wouldn't go.. he still went. How do we know he went to Ranchi and not Bhuvneshwar.... we used 'find my phone' and tracked him. Have screenshots but this is now 1.5 years ago. Now he has everything under lock &amp; key.
He has made a separate account for her and booking train tickets and plane tickets for her travel. Sending someone else's KIDS food. and at home he says he doesn't have money to feed us. He even financed a goddamn NGO in this MAYA's name ffs.
(who's name is Swarn Nari Shakti - how ironic)
Speaking of NGO. Before this shitstain of a father opened this women's NGO... this affair of his was working in another NGO. My mother somehow managed to contact this NGO whos head was Veena Manvi and this Maya Devi was working under her. Veena Manvi came to our House to sort out this issue. Even she could do nothing... she just tried to explain how all of this is wrong. Nothing happens - stopped giving money to my mother. Now cries all the time that he doesn't have money. Takes up huge loans and gives money to his affairs. He has now grown ever more confident and now freely goes on trips and whatnot with her affair and still claims he has no money. My mother is a simple housewife and doesn't even know all this Govt and tech stuff but still managed to gather this much and I just feel how emotionally, mentally and physically she has been tortured by him since the last 3 years. 

I am now scared for her since he has access to all her Govt IDs including PAN and Aadhar and they have a joint bank account as well which is his salary account. He now gives no access to any of his things claiming privacy but wants all the places where we spend money. He makes exorbitant statements claiming how we are spending 6 lakhs 10 lakhs on Kaala Jaadu and NGO and what not but in realty he has given 0 money in her account and it feels like he making some fake proofs against us for spending money. He make all these nasty claims now that my mother is a whore and is sleeping with people, how she spends money on kaala jaadu and gives money to NGO and what not but in realty he is the one doing all these things and just straight lies about it. He has litterally gone crazy but hes a crazy with resources.

I feel like he is going to scam us and leave us with a massive debt. We have a second house which he now wants to sell as ge doesn't want us to move in it. He simply wants us to stay here with him and move according to his will and he should be free to do everything. He has developed this weird accountability startegy to do nasty things and blame it on my mother and then abuse her claiming he had to punish her. 

My brother is in 11th and we live with our 2 grandparents. Almost all our close relatives now including his sister (my bua) knows this and has seen this first hand... I repeat no one could put some sense in him. Even our neighbors know about this now and are shocked. Because he does not look like this at all. Some of his office friends as well. There are some people who don't know but they have no clue about the realty because they only know one side of the story.

No one wants to step forward and help us because everyone is scared of him and this is a family matter. I am so ashamed of myself right now that I can't even help my mother. I feel like we have tried everything. I even went with my mother to the police station once after he hit her. but the police there didn't take our FIR because we couldn't write it properly and this affair was as per him an online chat.

I seriously need help again PLEASE if you are a Lawyer in Delhi HELP.