SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: found this on quora.What can a normal person do in such situations?
DATE: 2024-04-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1c4sp42/found_this_on_quorawhat_can_a_normal_person_do_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

If I'm detained by the police in India for a crime I didn't commit, what rights do I need to know that I have which could help me?
First of all, you are in India. So, don’t think much about your rights and laws.

This is my own experience with police. I had gone to visit an office in Noida. My friend has started a start-up from home months back and he was looking for an office space to start hiring employees for expansion. He finally found a space in Noida sector 63 on a cheap deal, It was a 3 storied building and we got the basement there because that was what he could afford that time. He had all the talk with the previous tenant of the office directly and phone conversation with the landlord. All documentation had been done with the landlord within 2 days and he started hiring employees. I was helping him with the interview process that time. That day there were 8 candidates lined up and we ended up about 10 in the night. Later on, we were 4 friends there in the office discussing some stuff and places to renovate in the office. It was already 11 o’clock. Suddenly a policeman came into the office and asking what we were doing here. We were simply sitting with our laptops and discussing stuff. Behind him 3 other policemen entered, heckling us without any reason. They took all our laptops and phones from us and took us to the police gypsy. We all were shocked and scared, one among us tried to ask one of the police constables, what has happened and why they are taking us, in return, he was scolded upon and the police officer grabbed him by the collar saying “Don’t make things worse for you”. We all shut our mouth and went to the police station. They directly locked us up a shed, that was not a proper police lock-up, which was inside the building. We were locked up outside the building, it was more like hidden in a room. No-one was ready to talk to us. A few minutes later another constable came and gave us some food to eat. I made my face like crying to gain his sympathy, but all in vain. After a couple of hours another police constable came, he was much older and asked us why we are here. We got a ray of hope, desperately we gathered in front of him. I said we don’t have any idea why we are here and told him the story. He nodded and said that’s all for money, wait for a couple of hours and someone will call us first they will scare the hell out of us and later pitch the cost of releasing us. I was baffled, how on the earth police can pick few people like us suddenly and ask money to release us. He said it happens all the time. The police get informed by the small vendors nearby if such victim is there. I asked him if he can arrange a phone to call, one of our friend’s dad is in CID, so it won’t be easy to keep us here, but he said sorry with the most innocent face. He can't’ go against those senior officers. It was morning and a policeman came to talk to us. We get relieved, at least someone is talking now. He simply convicted us of a cheating an innocent guy from Odisha for 2 lac rupees. We all fell from the sky. I asked how. The situation was quite like an interrogation. But here the policeman was giving us the whole plot of crime. I said okay whatever the crime is, show us a copy of FIR against us and present the guy in front of us and give us our phone to call a lawyer. He refused and said the guy is in Odhisa and he has sent the money online. I said again okay get all our account details and find out if any such like transaction happened, then he scolded me like a beast. He said, “Don’t teach me what to do”. He then left. We were just hoping to get a phone so that our friend can call his CID dad. Until that time even the police didn’t know about his dad. We were calling from inside to talk to the inspector, most of the time we get scolded on. After a couple of hours, another policeman came and ask one of us to go with him. So, we sent our CID’s son with him. After 15 minutes he came back. He said there was a lady inspector sitting inside but she refused to talk to him, so he had a talk with 3 junior officers. They said to pay 2 lacs to them, they will send the money to the Odisha guy and in return, they won’t register any file against us. In rebuttal my friend said, he knows very well what they are asking for because his dad is in CID. That thing I guess shocked them a bit, he himself showed him his dad’s ID card’s copy which he keeps always in his purse and noted them down his dad’s number then he gets back to the cell. 1 hour later, we were called by the inspector herself. She said there was a mistake happened, they were about to raid the same building number in sector 62 but they mistakenly did it in sector 63 saying that released us with all our belongings. I gained some strength and about to spit some strong words according to our law to the inspector, but my friends stopped me and we got out of that police station. We consulted with some locals about that issue, they all advised not to take any action, because we had to live there and if we take any action then they can make any story and arrest us again.