SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Help needed : How to obtain US marriage &amp; Divorce records for my friend's divorce case in India
DATE: 2024-09-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fmsmw7/help_needed_how_to_obtain_us_marriage_divorce/

--- POST TEXT ---

My friend got married to a guy in May 2019 in India. The guy had studied MS in US and had returned back to India for starting his own business. 3 months into the marriage my friend found that the guy had already married someone else while he was staying in the US and that woman has filed for a divorce from him which was pending at the time he got married to my friend - this was based on a US court case record she found online. She also found wedding invite showing that the said wedding took place in 2018 and happened in a US gurudwara. TLDR; the marriage with my friend was his 2nd marriage without absolution of his 1st marriage. All of this was hidden from her before marriage. The guys family also took dowry -not explicitly- but in terms of kitchen appliances, gold, expensive sarees during the wedding. The guy was emotionally manipulative and exhibited narcissistic behaviour and the inlaws were also physically and mentally abusive towards my friend throughout her stay with them. He remained unemployed even after getting married to my friend and fake promised my friend that he would start a business and be independent.

Unable to cope with the findings and the circumstances, my friend decided to file for a divorce within a year of marriage.
Based on a local lawyers advice we filed for a 420 case and a contested divorce. The case is still on going in court with no resolution on the horizon.The guys side of the family has been doing everything on the earth to stall the case as much as possible. They are denying the occurence of the 1st wedding in the US and have also withheld my friend's stree dhan along with all her belongings. They have done everything to character assainate my friend within family circles.

I wanted to ask the lawyers of reddit if there is any way for us to pull authorised/legal wedding and divorce records from the US to solidify our case? If yes, what is the procedure to do so? As mentioned earlier we have the wedding invite, a photograph and the online divorce case record from the US court website but the guy is accusing us of falsely creating those. We want to submit records to the court that cannot be dismissed off as false and will hold legal ground but since it's a case of overseas marriage we are confused how to go about it. We have consulted our lawyer in this regard but we feel we are not getting the right legal advice. Any help would be appreciated. Also good lawyer contacts who would be are knowledgeable and helpful for this particular context ( preferably in Thane/Mumbai area) would be appreciated. Thank you