SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need help regarding a scam
DATE: 2023-07-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15ee72p/need_help_regarding_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys , 
I recently bought a new Vivo phone from a popular showroom in Chennai. I made a lot of purchases that day . A week after my purchase ,I received a call from a person who told they are working in vivo showroom and told aadi offer is going on, and told that I have won a giveaway since I purchased recently , to receive a 15000 worth phone for Rs . 3500. 
They called twice and I told them That I won't pay in advance. They said I can take it in COD. They took my address . They sent that parcel through post office. Today I was not there in home. Today my mother has paid for the parcel and received it. It was filled with broken hair dryer. When I tried calling the two numbers they are not responding. One woman picked the call and behaved in a very rude manner. 

The address they are claiming is fake it seems ,I checked that address in Google ,it says Smart choice mobile showroom in Ambattur. But when I called the number under it ,a gentleman told me that he runs a printing service there and he is facing this issue for the past 3 years. Seems he approached the commissioner office regarding this , but the issue is not resolved it seems. He also told me that this group has cheated more than 100 people recently as many people called him regarding this. People from other states too have been cheated. 

There was a address in the parcel mentioning Smart star choice , 66 , poiyerikkari , eb street , erode 638001. 

A group of 4 ladies are involved , they make the call , they talk about the offer. I have done a mistake by not verifying them clearly. I don't know what to do about this. But this seems like a large scale scam. I have all 4 numbers I received the call from . The post office acknowledgement of receiving 3500. I know I did a huge mistake. But what can be done to stop them? 

Their number is also not tagged as spam in Truecaller . Its a very well planned scam group. 

If it's possible , anyone kindly let me know how this gang would know that I purchased my Vivo phone recently . Should I inform the showroom about this ? Or are there any other sources to take that info ? .