SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Sex-tortion case/scam. How cooked am I?
DATE: 2024-11-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gxv6pt/sextortion_casescam_how_cooked_am_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi! I am a 20M. Recently I've been part of sex-tortion scam. 

Here's the context.
1. The scammer requested to follow me on instagram. I accepted and followed them back due to having mutuals + sharing same degree 
2. A month passes without any conversation, a few days back she asks for my number (after some small talk) and I foolishly give it out
3. On WhatsApp, she video calls, shows her breast and asks me to show her my genitals. I decline at first but I reluctantly show (on video call) just to get it over (yea ik this was VERY DUMB)
4. She uses the video to extort money. I do not pay her.
5. The videos are sent to my instagram followers from an anonymous account, with the help of my friends I am able to somewhat control the situation.
6. I've filled an anonymous cybersecurity report as well as on NCIL
7. This all happened 3 days ago

Today, I received a call from someone allegedly IPS Rakesh Asthana. He tells me that I could go to jail because I had sex with the said person and the video has been uploaded to YouTube, while acknowledging that the person was a known scammer. After explaining the situation, he abused me and said that he had done a background check on me. He further said that I still can make things right. I just needed to WhatsApp him, He'd message me the number of YouTube people. I speak with them and get my video removed. Then inform him so he can close the case.

I spoke with my father, who rightfully believed this to be a scam. I called the person back explaining that I spoke with my father and lawyer (I don't have one isliye I am here) and requested him to contact me via the email. He scoffed, abused my dad and lawyer for being a smartass and told me that he'd be at my home in 30 minutes with cybersecurity team to arrest me. The funny thing is that I live in a different states as my parents so I don't even know where he is going to come to arrest me. I say ok sir and hang up. My dad recommends me to block him and I do the same. 

Now, how cooked am I? Realistically have I done anything apart from sheet stupidity, something chargeable? Can I go to jail? Also just realised cybercell doesn't have my number, so assuming if this isn't a scam, and they actually got my number because of some video floating around, am I gonna to jail or be charged??????