SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: NoBroker subscription is a scam - think before listing your property
DATE: 2025-02-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1isfrf6/nobroker_subscription_is_a_scam_think_before/

--- POST TEXT ---

My experience with NoBroker post subscribing to rent out my property is horrible so far , and just waiting to see the final outcome once the subscription period is over . Longish but this is the fact , think before subscribing to NoBroker.com

We had listed one of my properties in NoBroker.com for rent some time back and posted some WIP pictures etc to check tenants interest in the market . The apartment was still getting furnished at that point of time 

Since me and my wife listed the property ( we have separate logins ) we used to get atleast 2-3 calls average per day to move the same to a premium listing and so many things were promised starting with taking pictures , videos of property and posting them , having dedicated RM , using SEO to increase visibility and so on . The cash back plan listed in the app was declined ( not sure why if that option was there ) and they offered a super relax plan . The follow up was commendable though I told many times only one of us and most probably my wife will subscribe and only when furnishing is done and both of us will not subscribe . Due to the consistent follow ups and promises , we finally took the plan suggested by them . It was told it’s a 35 days plan validity and within the next day RM will be assigned and property visit etc will be scheduled for rest of the things . 

Since then it’s us who have been following up first for getting a RM which was done just for sake of it post follow ups, then to connect with him or to get him to respond to these queries . No one called us after subscribing which was promised and no one seems to be having any urgency to collect keys , take pictures , post , generate leads etc . I am sure they deal with many customers and might be busy but for every customer their property matters. All the RM does is send one message a day post follow ups that keys will be collected and view is scheduled and nothing happens after that . When we called the field rm he was clueless too and still is after 7 days , which clearly indicates communication gap and latency in the process.. now we know it’s a subscription scam and after 35 days they will close the plan stating that’s the best effort . Even there call centres don’t take action , help key is disabled and you ll not get response even if you write to their CEO . There is absolutely no visibility and urgency to any activities taken up once you have subscribed. 

My major concern is false promises and later complete ignorance and lack of efforts . I am also planning to complain in consumer forum and post publicly about my experience in few days so that other think before subscribing . Thanks