SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank employee leaked passbook and transaction details. How to sue?
DATE: 2021-05-26
SCORE: 21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/nlgqxe/bank_employee_leaked_passbook_and_transaction/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone! Around a month back, one of my business clients who lives in a different district had gone through my bank statement through an employee in a branch in that district. He pointed out all the transactions I've made in the past month and said the exact dates. So I filed a complaint with the bank and they said they will take action. 

Today that client calls me up (I have it on record) and tells me that the bank employee who helped him with the statement had called him up and told him that a police complaint is being filed on both of them. Apparently, he bank had also called up the client and spoke about this. The client asked me to revoke the complaint. I said "I don't think it's upto me. They're taking action. If they come to me I'll try." Then he said all right I'll give you the branch and name of the employee who helped me. You please proceed with the complaint in his name. I was like all right you send me the details. Then he said no if the situation gets worse I'll give you the details. I said okay. Then he continues to tell me that he has connections in a lot of banks and that this is nothing. "He can't complain against me. Even if he does I'll take care. I know cops in the police station. Moreover, I've seen your statement four times in four different branches. Why is he the only one whose caught?" and some sort of shit. I have all of this on record.

Now I figure that some sort of action is being taken at the bank but they haven't contacted me yet. The client told me that they are going to suspend the employee. 

Now, I want to sue the bank for leaking my data through an employee. I'm a law student and I know section 72(a) of IT Act applies here. Going to a banking ombudsman is of no use i guess because the complaint is being addressed. If the bank finds out that there is a leak in data and figured out who the employee is, I can definitely claim for compensation right? How do I approach the consumer court regarding this and claim for compensation? What other statutes apply here? Thank you in advance for any inputs. :)