SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Any tips on getting past these 'recruitment' agencies that are just calling you to datamine and not actually hire anyone?
DATE: 2018-05-23
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/8lhwja/any_tips_on_getting_past_these_recruitment/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I'm applying for jobs in IT and I've found a disturbing trend you might be familiar with, I know its technically not a scam but its definitely some bullshit. Well, and India.

They post fake job listings almost everywhere and wait for you to send them a resume with your phone and email. Then they sign you up for some bullshit job search websites with your email and also sometimes call you to ask questions like how much you make, what experience you have, etc. They make it sound like you might have a chance at getting a job, so you answer their questions, but they just enter it into some database and don't give a fuck about you. Then they sell the database to some idiot analyst who thinks it has useful information I guess, I dont know that part. There isn't really a job, they are just harassing people.

So my question is this: I don't want to fuck around with these guys. I want to get straight to business. But it is hard to tell whether or not they are actually hiring. 

**Does anyone here have advice on how to either avoid their job postings, or deny their phone calls?** I don't want to miss out on a real offer. I don't think I can just hang up on anyone with an Indian accent but that could be a good start. A bit racist yes... but considering the situation, an Indian is more likely to work at a scamming call center than an actually hiring, real company, since I'm in the US. If there's an 80% chance its a fake call to waste my time based on an accent, I'll definitely take those odds and hang the fuck up on all these idiots based on their accent alone.

What do you think?

--------------------------------------

Maybe I'll ask what their name is, and if they give me a bullshit generic American sounding name but sound like they are calling from some urban Indian city, they get hung up on.