SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Help me fight this edtech giant legally. Kinda helpless (17F)
DATE: 2025-02-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ix4ofm/help_me_fight_this_edtech_giant_legally_kinda/

--- POST TEXT ---

I purchased an Unacademy VIP subscription in morning of feb 21 paying ₹12,000 via UPI. I confirmed with salesperson that batch will work on my ipad and will be activated immediately after money is paid. After the payment, I received the invoice, but my batch was not activated. I placed countless calls to customer support, but there was no proper response. More than 24 hours later, on Feb 22(next day) evening, after multiple escalations, they finally activated my batch. 

Once the batch was activated, I realized that the course was not working on my iPad(my primary device, Playback issues) When I contacted support again provided them with all the proofs, tried troubleshooting, nothing worked then they casually told me to use an Android device, which is completely unreasonable because I did not pay ₹12,000 to be forced to watch lectures on a phone.

I posted about it on twitter tagging them. Later that evening, a support representative called me again. They cancelled my ICONIC subscription, which was bundled with VIP, and told me that I would be refunded. But after that no follow ups about refund, neither in return about it. Now, my ICONIC subscription is cancelled, but my VIP subscription remains active.

Another major issue is that the teachers in this batch had clearly stated that they would not be accepting students after Feb 15 because the coursework is too intensive, and it would be difficult for new students to catch up. I agree with this, yet the salesperson still sold me this batch on Feb 21, knowing I would struggle. Now, the teachers are saying that new students should just watch recorded lectures instead of attending live ones to have understanding of whats going on in class. The whole USP of this course was personal attention and live classes peer to peer. So after all this hassle, I am now being forced to pay ₹12,000 just for recorded content. The salesperson told me a complete different story. 

I have already filed a complaint with cybercrime and raised a grievance with Unacademy, to which they responded they will try to fix for ipad. (no dead line, no statement addressing the refund which was my main concern). I agree I have been naive here and shouldn’t have trusted sales people. I don’t know what my next step should be. What legal action can I take in this situation? I have my JEE Advanced in 80 days and all this is so mentally taxing.