SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Poonch attack: Terrorists chose target after recce, used armour-piercing bullets
AUTHOR: Snehesh Alex Philip
DATE: 2023-04-22
URL: https://theprint.in/defence/poonch-attack-terrorists-chose-target-after-recce-used-armour-piercing-bullets/1533546/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
The terrorists, who targeted an Army truck, killing five soldiers Thursday in Poonch, chose the lone vehicle after a proper recce and are believed to have targeted them with armour-piercing bullets and grenades, ThePrint has learnt.
Sources in the defence and security establishment said that according to a provisional medical report, of the five soldiers killed in the attack, three died due to bullet injuries while the other two succumbed to burns.
They have also ruled out the possibility of a sticky bomb as of now, saying the fire was caused due to the bursting of the fuel tank, likely to have been caused by a grenade which exploded next to it.
Sources also told ThePrint that this was an ambush by the terrorists who are yet to be identified by name and face. They said the terrorists opened fire first and later threw the grenade.
Show Full Article
They also said that a full-fledged Road Opening Party (ROP) was not in place since there was no convoy movement but some Quick Reaction Teams were deployed by the concerned brigade.
The movement of the truck leaving the camp was probably noticed by a spotter who then passed on the information to the group of terrorists who had taken up positions in the area that is heavily forested, they said.
Since the road has several turns, the vehicle was moving slowly, making it easier for the terrorists to target. Sources said a team of the National Investigations Agency (NIA) had reached the spot, examined the area and done a crime scene recreation.
The security forces have recovered 7.62mm steel core bullets from the spot. Incidentally, it was the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) which first introduced these bullets into Kashmir terrorism a few years back. JeM proxy
People’s Anti-Fascist Front (PAFF)
has claimed responsibility for the attack.
Asked how the truck was moving alone in an area which is close to the LoC and had witnessed previous incidents, sources said it had gone for provisions for an Iftaar being organised for the nearby villages under the area of responsibility of the battalion.
They said that ROP is put in place when a proper convoy is moving. “Not all movement takes place with a full-fledged ROP,” a source said.
As reported by ThePrint,  the attack was carried out by a combined team of the JeM and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) with a mix of local and Pakistani terrorists.
The security forces and agencies are pooling resources and pursuing all inputs. The Army has launched multiple teams, including Special Forces, to scan the adjoining forest areas close to the LoC.
(Edited by Smriti Sinha)
Also read:
Poonch attack carried out by ‘combined LeT-JeM team’. Both foreign & local terrorists involved