SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam alert! 01/03/2014
DATE: 2014-01-04
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1ucabr/scam_alert_01032014/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today I received a call from what appeared to be the T-Mobile phone number (the 1-800 number that you are directed to after you dial 611) and said they were conducting a survey about quality of coverage and would receive $20 credit towards your next bill if you answered a few questions. (It sounded like an indian dude but since i have T-Mobile saved on my phone number and the caller I.D. showed as T-Mobile from my contacts I didn't think it was a scam)

The questions were pretty straight forward and were about quality of coverage and stuff like that.

I answered them all.

He then proceeded to tell me that i would receive a text from T-Mobile with a code which i would need to give him to receive the credit to my account. I received the code from the T-Mobile 456 number and I proceeded to stupidly give it to him thinking "Hey a T-Mobile text just like he said, well here ya go!"

He then asked for zip code, b-day and last four digits of social on the account to verify that I was the account holder which I then proceeded again to stupidly give to him..

I guess he got what he needed and just hung up...

After the call was over I quickly called back to the same number they called from which is the official T-Mobile number and connected to T-Mobile. I still hadn't realized what had happened. I proceed to talk to the representative and told them that I was in the middle of one of their surveys and the call dropped. She quickly informed me that they were not conducting such surveys and that most likely i had fallen victim to a scam. I told them that I had received a call from this exact number, but she insisted that there is no such surveys and that I had just been victim to a scam and that they have been receiving similar calls from other T-Mobile customers about similar incidents. I proceeded to ask if any changes had been made to my account which luckily, none had been made yet. They flagged my account to keep an eye out for fraudulent activities and also added extra security to my account with a 2nd password so nobody without the 2nd password could make changes to my account.

I quickly put my thinking cap on and realized they had most likely spoofed their number to appear as T-Mobiles, triggered the T-Mobile site to send the code to my phone by trying to reset my password on command, and all this to make themselves more credible as a T-Mobile rep and thus making you more gullible to the scam.

They managed to get my b-day, zip and last 4 digits of SS which are the minimum requirements to gain access to my T-Mobile account over the phone. They probably already had more information on me.

I am hoping to warn anyone out there before they fall victim to this intricate scam. I normally would have realized it was a scam right away since you never give out those sensitive details over the phone, but since i received the call from the official T-Mobile number and the T-Mobile text just like he said I would, I had no reason to doubt him. I put my guard down and foolishly gave him the information.

I researched a bit online and found very similar cases for both T-Mobile and AT&amp;T customers.

Here are a few of the links for the stories I found.

http://www.king5.com/news/get-jesse/New-scam-targeting-mobile-users-235661061.html

http://www.nbc-2.com/story/22811096/some-att-customers-falling-victim-to-scam#.Uscur9JDuWY

I'm still a bit alarmed by the whole situation, but here telling my experience hoping to prevent it from happening to anyone else.

Moral of the story: Never give sensitive information over the phone especially if they have an Indian accent and the call quality sucks. Always ask questions like where are you calling from, whats the reason for the call &amp; if you could get another representative on the line because you are having trouble understanding them. This usually weeds out the scammers if they can't transfer you over to another representative. (If they do "transfer" you, just hope you don't get another Indian accent person on the line, this should be a RED flag that it is definitely a scam.)

TL;DR: Got call from spoofed T-Mobile number, answered simple survey for alleged $20 discount on next bill, gave out sensitive account details, caught it in time and was able to add extra security to account before any changes were made. Don't be the next victim to this scam!