SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Job offer seems fishy to me...scam?
DATE: 2023-03-30
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/126qgqu/job_offer_seems_fishy_to_mescam/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I applied for a remote position on Indeed, for a "real estate assistant". The person who reached out to me seemed to have an American sounding name but had a heavy possibly Indian (?) accent. Not that that in itself is a red flag, but the entire process has been bizarre to say the least. 

I received an email explaining the job, stating that the training period is two weeks and the pay is $2k, then after that you have the option to work part or full time for $1450 or $2900 biweekly, respectively. They had me sign and date some paperwork (they did not ask for any personal information like a social security number, not that I would provide it) and then the woman played phone tag with me for several days. She would call and not leave a voicemail, and never called during the times I asked her to. For instance the first time I missed her call I asked her to call me at 11 am the next morning. She didn't call until 4 pm that day and I missed her. This happened several times. 

When I finally got ahold of her, she explained that the job does a "trial period" of 2 weeks to where they will give us an assignment and we have 24 hours to complete it. She also keeps insisting I add her on What's App and communicate that way (another red flag, if I'm not mistaken). She said she needed to submit my application paperwork for "approval" (whatever that means). 

I got an email today congratulating me for being approved and said "welcome to the team" and that I'd receive my first assignment this coming Monday and I'd have 24 hours to complete it. There was never a formal interview or anything, just a phone interview (and it was hardly an interview).

I'm getting serious red flag vibes about the entrie situation...I did look up the company and it's legit, and the phone number and email she reached out to me from seem to be listed on the company site as well. But I can't shake the feelings of suspicion. 

Any input would be appreciated. Thanks in advance!

Edit: Thanks for the feedback everyone. I'm not pursuing this, it's clearly a scam. I think I knew the entire time something felt off but it helps to get further confirmation from unbiased opinions. Thanks again!