SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Best Crypto Presale: Hype for DeepSnitch AI Parabolic As Traders Count Down Days To Launch, TAP and LIVE Top Their Sectors
AUTHOR: By:Kapil Joshi
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/brandit/best-crypto-presale-hype-for-deepsnitch-ai-parabolic-as-traders-count-down-days-to-launch-tap-and-live-top-their-sectors/2887274/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

T
wo senators from opposite sides of the political compass proposed a bipartisan bill expected to drop that would bar sports betting and casino-style contracts from CFTC-regulated prediction markets.
Considering that both Polymarket and Kalshi generated $3.8 billion in sports-related weekly volume last week, this particular piece of legislation could be devastating.
Meanwhile, retail traders are more interested in finding the perfect utility-based presale that could deliver immediate gains and provide steady growth. With its launch only a week away,
DeepSnitch AI
could be the best crypto presale right now for those looking for maximum value.
Show Full Article
Are prediction markets “cooked”?
According to the
Wall Street Journal
US Senators Adam Schiff and John Curtis are expected to introduce a bipartisan bill that would bar sports betting and casino-style contracts from prediction markets regulated by the CFTC.
The issue was framed around young people in Utah being exposed to addictive gambling products operating under federal rather than state oversight.
Overall, the proposed bill only adds to growing pressure on prediction markets after insider trading accusations connected to US-Israel-Iran war bets hit the news, and the earlier DEATH BETS Act targeting war and individual deaths contracts.
At press time, sports contracts accounted for a
massive chunk
of the prediction market’s volume. To be exact, they generated $1.2B for Polymarket (47.7% of notional volume) and $2.6B for Kalshi (2.6B notional volume).
As the regulatory hammer gets closer to wrecking prediction markets, the conversation in the retail sector is centered on the best crypto presale conversation. While LivLive and Digitap certainly commanded interest, DeepSnitch AI stole the thunder as the hype for its Mach 31 launch went into the stratosphere.
Best crypto ICO 2026
DeepSnitch AI: The most popular early access crypto nears March 31 Uniswap listing
Retail is more interested in finding the best crypto presale than interacting with prediction market contracts.
DeepSnitch AI is one of the most viable contenders. While it always had the reputation as one of the most popular crypto launchpad projects in the bear market (raising $2.4M is no easy feat), the FOMO got quite rabid as the March 31 Uniswap listing started inching closer.
While it’s a powerhouse on the “fiscal” front (most traders anticipate 100x-300x gains) and the hype always starts building as the community wants to reserve presale pricing, DeepSnitch AI provides legitimate on-chain intelligence tools that give traders an actual information edge.
The solution is already operational, meaning that you can fire up the dashboard post-launch and scan the markets for breakout setups, do quick DYOR, identify rug pulls, and watch for sentiment shifts in real time.
With 46M DSNT tokens already staked, 300% bonuses available for $30k+ allocations, and an affordable $0.04577 entry,
DeepSnitch AI
is hands down the best crypto presale that is launching this month.
https://youtu.be/4v93DMP95sU
Digitap: Why is TAP gaining the attention of DeFi enthusiasts?
With DeepSnitch AI hailed as the best crypto presale for daily traders, Digitap is slowly building a reputation as a solid pick for the best crypto ICO 2026 in DeFi.
As an omni-banking DeFi hub, Digitap will support lending, borrowing, payments, and yield across multiple chains in a single platform. This is an ambitious concept with a credible execution roadmap, no surprises there.
At $0.14, it also presents an amazing opportunity to enter the sector on a budget.
The only downside (if you can call it that) is that DeFi banking is currently one of the most crowded sectors, with many projects offering something similar.
LivLive: Could LIVE be the most original early access crypto in 2026?
AR hype may have died down, but LivLive is back in the trenches trying to repopularize the concept, with quite an original twist – a blockchain AR ecosystem.
The idea is simple: real-world physical actions such as visiting locations, reviewing businesses, and completing challenges earn you LIVE tokens. The token economy is already baked in, and $1.48M raised at $0.2 implies that there is interest for LiveLive.
What may hinder the project from staging the best crypto presale of the season is the fact that the adoption could be challenging, as getting crypto traders to change their behavior is a tough sell.
Final words: More than empty hype
The regulatory hammer is closing in on prediction markets, and retail traders are fully invested in early access projects.
With many considering it the best crypto presale for months, DeepSnitch AI’s imminent March 31 launch can only inspire traders to take action and lock down their allocations.
Yet, it goes beyond empty hype. DeepSnitch AI promises to overhaul your daily trading game, and since you can even receive an unreal amount of value through discount codes currently available (DSNTVIP300 alone unlocks 300% extra tokens on $30K+ investments), these kinds of opportunities rarely pop up in crypto.
Make these last 7 days count and reserve your spot in the
DeepSnitch AI
presale. For fresh community updates, feel free to jump into
X
or
Telegram
.
FAQs
What makes DeepSnitch AI the best crypto presale of the season?
In addition to securing $2.4M at $0.04577, DeepSnitch AI offers live utility ahead of its March 31 launch. The conviction is at an all-time high as 100x-300x predictions hit the community that has already staked over $47M DSNT tokens.
What does the bipartisan Senate bill targeting prediction markets mean for crypto?
Senators Schiff and Curtis are expected to introduce legislation barring sports betting and casino-style contracts from CFTC-regulated prediction markets. Sports contracts generated $3.8 billion in combined weekly volume on Polymarket and Kalshi last week.
What are Digitap and LivLive offering in the current presale market?
Digitap is an omni-banking DeFi hub at $0.14 with a credible infrastructure concept in a crowded niche, while LivLive presents an AR gaming token at $0.02, which could take off if traders get on board the AR concept.
ThePrint BrandIt content is a paid-for, sponsored article. Journalists of ThePrint are not involved in reporting or writing it.