SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: India not ‘dalal’ like Pakistan, Modi told Trump we wish for a quick end to war—govt to all-party meet
AUTHOR: Neelam Pandey
DATE: 2026-03-25
URL: https://theprint.in/politics/not-dalal-like-pakistan-india-wont-interfere-in-iran-us-conflict-govt-tells-all-party-meeting/2888775/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
At an all-party meeting on the West Asia conflict, the Centre told the Opposition that India is not a
‘dalal’
(broker) nation like Pakistan, and that PM Narendra Modi conveyed to US President Donald Trump the country’s “desire” for a swift end to the war as it is hurting everybody, ThePrint has learnt.
During the meeting, the Opposition is said to have raised the matter of the reported role that Pakistan is playing as a mediator in the Iran conflict. “A nation which was completely isolated after 26/11 and a nation known to be the biggest exporter of terror in our neighbourhood (it’s playing such a role)… How does it impact us? Is it not a setback to our diplomacy? Such questions were raised,” said a senior leader who was present at the meeting.
To this, according to sources, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said: “We will not interfere (the way Pakistan is meddling in internal affairs of a country). We aren’t like Pakistan, we aren’t a
‘dalal’
.”
Show Full Article
Jaishankar, according to the above-mentioned leader, asserted that Pakistan’s involvement should not be seen as unprecedented. The minister, another source said, pointed out that not much should be read into Pakistan’s mediation efforts as it has been “used” by the US since 1981.
“He did not give a pointed reply, but it was a long sort of historical narration wherein he talked about how since 1981, Pakistan has been involved in such activities for several decades and how it is in Pakistan’s DNA. Pakistan, he pointed out, tries to get involved in such affairs to strengthen its position, something which we don’t do. We don’t interfere in other countries’ matters,” the source added.
The Congress, however, termed Wednesday’s meeting unsatisfactory, with party leader Tariq Anwar saying that the Opposition’s primary demand remains a debate in Parliament. Coming down heavily on the Modi government, Anwar added that while Pakistan is performing a mediator’s role, India remains a mute spectator.
Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said that when questions were asked on why Pakistan is playing such a central role, and why the PM went on a trip two days before the war, “the government responded in its own way”.
CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas said the Opposition expressed its concerns regarding the Iran war.
“There were many issues like the government’s silence on the attack on Iran and the death of the Supreme Leader of Iran, and various other concerns, including the shortage of LPG and how this war is impacting different regions of India,” he said. “The government presented its side that there was no silence; they were talking. The government has given assurance that there will be no shortage of LPG, CNG, crude oil in the country. They also said that our wish is that the war ends quickly because the war is affecting everybody.”
“When I persistently asked, they said that in a conversation between Prime Minister Modi and US President Donald Trump, our PM conveyed our desire that the war end fast because the war, as said by the EAM, hurts everybody. In any case, the general consensus amongst the Opposition is that India should have taken a forthright position with regard to the war that was waged against an independent, sovereign country,” Brittas told ThePrint, referring to Jaishankar when he was asked about what transpired between Modi and Trump.
Four weeks after the Iran war started, Trump had dialled PM Modi Tuesday and discussed the emerging situation in West Asia. Modi told Trump that India supports de-escalation and the restoration of peace at the earliest.
Defence Minister Rajnath Singh chaired the Wednesday meeting, which was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kiren Rijiju, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, EAM Jaishankar, and Petroleum Minister Hardeep Puri, among others.
Later, Rijiju said all major political parties, barring the Trinamool Congress, participated in the meeting. “I believe that after the detailed information and answers to the questions the government provided today at this all-party meeting, I believe the Opposition will also stand together in times of crisis…in a way, I also saw a sense of solidarity from all Opposition parties,” he said after the meeting.
Several Opposition leaders sought to know the government’s contingency measures on how it plans to bring down import dependency for energy needs. India is heavily dependent on foreign imports for its energy needs, with the ongoing conflict affecting the country as much of its supplies passes from the Strait of Hormuz.
“Many questions were asked as to how do we increase our capacity, what the roadmap for that is. Questions were also raised about strategic petroleum reserves, and to what extent the government believes this is the comfortable stock because even the PM had said we have adequate stock—so adequate means for how many days? Finally, the two ministers responded,” said another leader present at the meeting, referring to Puri and Jaishankar.
Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri is said to have told the leaders that domestic production meets about 60 percent of India’s LPG demand, while imports and supply planning manage the rest. A presentation was also given on the West Asia crisis, with the government informing that more India-bound ships are expected to pass through the Strait of Hormuz soon, and that there was no crisis.
“We were told that four have started, two have already reached, and two others are expected soon, while 18 others are in line so there is no need for panic,” said a third Opposition leader.
Apart from pointing out that the safety and security of Indians remains its topmost priority, the government assured the political parties that the country’s energy security remains intact and more fuel shipments are on the way.
The government, according to sources, assured the parties that there is no need to panic regarding India’s fuel situation, stressing that adequate supplies of petroleum products and LPG are being maintained despite volatility in the region.
(Edited by Tony Rai)
Also read:
Modi govt failed to promote crude oil Atmanirbharata. Don’t let Iran war be a lost opportunity