SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: (rant) india is one of the worst place to live in asian
DATE: 2024-07-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1e97cws/rant_india_is_one_of_the_worst_place_to_live_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

This includes countries like pakistan, bangladesh as they were a part of india anyway before 

Before most of you rage let me tell you why.
THE DUMB TAXES. Sorry but they are just absurd? I recently buyed $200 worth of stuff from Japan and it had a 70% custom duty ON TOP of all the shipping, taxes and other charges. Like wtf? I get they they wish to promote local businesses but 70%? It was 40% just a year ago.

Our lovely govt keeps on finding ways to make us pay more taxes. If you ever earn anything, you gotta pay 20-40% of income tax.
That’s cool. Now you gonna buy stuff right? And most of actual quality stuff are IMPORTED.
Your phones for example. Ever used an indian company phone? Don’t think so.
So the things you buy already have custom duties on them. So for example if the original price is ₹10,000. It will be ₹17,000 when you see it in the store. And on top of that? Oh yes you gotta pay the lovely GST which can be upto 30%.

So you’re telling me I gotta give you 30% of my income and from the 70% income I have left, every “nice” thing I buy is upmarked by 70% cuz of customs. And on top of that I also need to pay like 30% gst?

And well most people who aren’t indians will think, “damn that must mean india have some really nice infrastructure and all if they are taxing this much”

nope. Nothing. Any one from middle class or above would rather die than go to a govt hospital. Have you even see these places? 
India is those countries where you pay taxes like european countires and get infrastructure like african countries 

and I dare you. Check out the countries in asia. China who we see as “our competitor” , “on par with is”. Have you seen how developed china actually is? It’s crazy. Almost every country is so much more developed than us (I won’t be counting pakistan and bangladesh cuz they basically were a part of india even tho they are different countries now)

it’s a shame. I love the food and the culture. But the system and taxes ruined this country for me.

Here even after paying so much taxes, you won’t send your kids to govt school, you won’t ever seek treatment in govt hospitals, Most govt facilities available to the public is so dirty and unhygienic.
And police? Just wish you never need them. Because believe me that all they are good at are taking bribes. The system is rigged. Nothing is fair in this country. Unless you have some networks with the govt itself, you will be pushed around by the system.

And the standardized tests? They are scam. Many times some of these examination centers are caught allowing kids to cheat or even worst? Correction the wrong answers in an answer sheet if bribed well enough.

Most govt officals are dumb. Makes me wonder how many of them are legit?