SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Got scammed by Samsung Service Store. Don't know what to do next.
DATE: 2025-01-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ib1glx/got_scammed_by_samsung_service_store_dont_know/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone,

I purchased my Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra last year during the pre-booking time, and I was quite satisfied with my purchase (although being my 1st ever owned device, still I saved for this phone for quite a long time, updated till the Sept 24 patch, and was in optimum condition without any faults).

Just 2 weeks ago, I noticed some very minute black marks on display (over the front camera) and the battery health, which was supposedly weakened by continuous usage. I requested my nearest service center to claim it under the comprehensive 2-year ADLD insurance plan (which includes any sorts of protection, liquid or incase accidental, bought from Samsung itself from the same Exclusive Samsung Smart cafe experience zone). They assured me and told me to get back to them within 4-5 days. Initially, I nodded but now I think that this was my grave mistake to let them have it.

I submitted my phone on 13th Jan, and now, after many calls and discussions of fake assurance like: "Today sir, I've changed your battery" on next call he said: " Sir, your frame has been changed" . This continued till my next visit.

On 21/01/25, he told me that the phone is now ready but company isn't releasing my phone because it has counterfeit display. The technician over call admitted on record that it wasn't opened ever and asked me "to fight for my phone on my own with Samsung ".

When I confronted them all on 24/01/25 for the aforementioned issue, I came to know that the device that is being presented to me is not mine at all (confirmed when I asked the S.C. guy for old-replaced battery, he gave me the one manufactured on 24/03/24, inspite of my phone never been opened (even admitted by SC people over call and record ) and manufactured in Dec 2023, I further went on by matching IMEI of my original device and this poorly repaired device which unfortunately mismatched). 

Senior Service technician told me, admitting that my device has been swapped with someone else's (which was given in 3 opened pieces) on 14/01/25. I suspect that claim, as they never gave me the other person's number, but I come to realize that the same guy has collected my device on 14th January 2025 and is using it since then. 

I quickly escalated this case with a potential chance of scam and reported it to the local police; they visited the store but refused to help me further (stating that police don't handle these kinds of cases).

The Service center guys took 3 more days, and today called me to get back my phone. They made it look like pristine and new by wrapping it up with plastic films and membranes and persuaded me to collect it (as they have marked it as case closed on their end). All my data that was present on the phone might have been leaked, and still I'm unsure whether they might have removed the certain parts with some counterfeit, as when they showed me the 1st other device on 24/01/25, they said that it has my original phone's battery and display (these things are pretty common in my area of living, North India, that's why I opted for Samsung complete insurance).

At last, when I refused their requests for collection, I demanded the new device, which they outright denied and said in a taunting way that to go ahead, either take this device or forget about it. I'm extremely feeling pressured and tense over my phone, which cost me above INR 1,50,000 (or USD 1750), and I know this is actually silly to look or sound, but this was kind of like my dream to ever own a Galaxy Note/Ultra device; hence all these years of savings were done, which actually accounts for many's annual income in my state. (Really sorry for that statement on my end, I'm not trying to demean anybody here).

Right now, if I take it and try to sell it out, as this device has now been opened, I wouldn't get more than INR 25,000 (USD 290). I'm stuck in the situation and don't have any clue or idea where I should head. I've mailed all the involved parties (including Samsung India) for the same and haven't gotten any apt reply.

Can anyone please help me out if they know any sorts of steps that I need to do?

Thank you once again for reading, and I apologize for wasting your time (this is my first-ever Reddit post, and I'm very sorry for the sorry state of affairs of my case within; I do really wish it would improve). I know this is the best condensed format I could have written for my case, so I'll be happy to share further details of the case if required.

Kind Regards