SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Flipkart and Jeeves insurance scam
DATE: 2023-10-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/17hkc91/flipkart_and_jeeves_insurance_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I purchased my phone from Flipkart last year and I didn't know how terrible Jeeves insurance was at the time. I purchased it since they claimed a lot of good things while selling this policy with the new phone. 

During mid-september last month, I needed to register a claim as the phone screen got damaged. This is where the whole scam started. 

At first, they requested for all the information and all the details of the device along with the pictures. I shared this with Jeeves and they soon confirmed their backend team verified and I will need to pay processing fee of Rs 1000 to fix the device. 

I paid the processing fee right away and I was told to wait 2 working days before my phone would be collected for repair. 

Every 2 working days, I kept following up and they sent the same robotic reply to wait 2 working days. Finally after 20-25 days, my phone was collected by their delivery agent. 

I thought at this point my problem was finally over and they would fix the device. Boy, was I wrong! 

For a week, there was no communication from Jeeves. I reached out asking the status of the repair, they replied asking for more money (about 3,500 rupees) for 20 other damages on the device. Starting from phone panel to a lot of other things. My phone had absolutely no other damage and was working perfectly fine even when the screen was damaged. 

I asked them to only repair the screen and they would again respond with a robotic response to pay the remaining money as if I owe them the money! I then asked them to share with me the pictures of the additional damages they claimed my device now has (since I took pictures before sending it to Jeeves) and they again responded with the robotic reply to pay the money or they can send the device back without repair if that is what I want. Like heck, according to them, it is ME who does not want the device repaired. I even have call recording with their customer care executive demanding more money or my phone will not be repaired. 

It has been almost 2 weeks since this happened and they are not fixing the phone and it has been just lying there at their service center. I had to buy a new phone meanwhile as I had no other option. 
 
They are literally holding my phone for a ransom at this point and even Flipkart is not ready to help. I feel like my phone was kidnapped from me in broad daylight and I have to keep paying up to get it back. 

I have raised the issue on Twitter with Flipkart and they reached out to me. I shared all the email history of my communication with Jeeves and the details with Flipkart and they have just been unresponsive for a week now. 

I've had to deal with a lot of mental stress in the last month or so due to Jeeves being so terrible and Flipkart not claiming responsibility for an insurance sold by them. If I knew I'd have to go through all this trouble, I would have just gone to the service center to repair my phone as that would have been cheaper. I wouldn't need to buy a new phone and most importantly save a lot of time and stress over this problem. 

At this point, I am not sure what else I can do. I have raised the issue on Twitter and neither Flipkart nor Jeeves is ready to help. They still have my device and I now fear they will damage my device more than what they collected it in. 

I'd appreciate any help on this if you guys know how I can deal with this. 

P.S. - DO not buy JEEVES insurance from Flipkart. It is the biggest scam they are running and your device would never be fixed for months or worse, you'd go through so much of mental stress over such a small issue, it is not worth it.