SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: M25 - My short experience with dating and why I fear future me
DATE: 2023-04-21
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12uavfq/m25_my_short_experience_with_dating_and_why_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is going to be a somewhat long post but I would really appreciate if anyone could really help me understand what's wrong here, please bear with me. Actually, anyone reading this, please help me, I'm begging you, please save me. I would be even be more grateful if any girl replies to this pointing out what all I did wrong and where I can improve to be a good person.

I graduated a few years back and had a very short relationship with a kind hearted girl in college. Nothing much, just hanging out every other day and talking on phone/whatsapp. It ended as college was about to end, since we got different work locations, we knew long term isn't going to work for us. Got a job from the college placements and due to the pandemic, started as work from home employee. Spent about 20 months working from home and then moved to the work location. It's been over a year since I've been working from office (it's kind of hybrid at the moment, so once a week in office, rest 4 days it's optional to work from home). 

As far as how I look, I'm probably the most average guy you could think of, 5'11, brown skinned, clean shaven, a simple hairstyle, not chiselled, but not too round face, average body build(not too fat, not too skinny), basically an average looking Indian man. And in no way am I saying that makes me entitled for anything, just describing myself, in case. One thing to note is that I generally don't like going out often, but I do always try to talk with people whenever I get a chance, even making the first move when needed. I don't know what is it with going out, but everytime I think of it, I think of pollution from vehicles, dirt from construction going on everywhere, traffic, crowds and heat.

Just like any other normal human being in his mid 20s, I wanted to get in a relationship with someone. I thought of dating apps, but reading about how much of a bad experience it is for average looking middle class Indian men and reading about a few stories on reddit and quora, I gave up that idea. Plus the risk of fake profiles/fraudsters/scammers and women who are there just to hear how good they look/how many matches they got and show it off to their friends, just made me stay from those apps. I live alone, I cook, clean and do other household work myself. Combine that with small workouts 2-3 times a week (home workout, just to stay fit, nothing specific), and office work, I don't have a lot of free time. But then again, occasionally, the feelings of being alone and seeing people in happy relationships on social media and movies, just make me sad and depressed. So the next option for me is to just try to get in relationships with someone in office (I know, a not so good idea, but can be given a try) and some friends from college/school who are in the same city (because of same IT work location). 

Now the time to share my experiences. There was a girl from college who got placed in the same company, and by coincedence, we got put into the same team. Nothing happened there, but after a year or so, I got put into another team. We still used to meet in office on a friendly basis, and when she knew about how good the work in my new team was, from a career point of view, she did an internal change and came to my team. After she came to my team, she started talking a lot to me, most of the time, just asking me for help about the work and asking me to help her understand the work related things. The thing is, she started sending me red hearts everywhere whenever I helped her or was talking with her, on whatsapp, on instagram and even on office channels - MS team 1 to 1 chats. Calling me cutie and what not on all these chat platforms. She once came to my flat to meet me (and she was also searching for flats to rent, so just to get an idea). We spent some time together, ordered and ate food, talked and discussed a few things here and there. She then told me about her ex, and how she was so good to him, but he stopped talking to her after college and all. Now, after all these hearts in chats, calling me different things and her home visit, I started to think she might be into me, so I started talking to her more. And on one unfortunate night, I called and asked her if she liked me, I also told her that I liked her. And told her it's fine if she doesn't, I'm really curious and just want to know since it's causing me a lot of mental thoughts, always thinking about her, thinking whether she likes me or not (please let me know if I did something wrong here, maybe I shouldn't have asked her ?). At this point, she told me some guy helped her when she was going through breakup, she's gotten very close to him, they talk multiple times on a daily basis and she don't want to break his heart. So I told her it's fine, atleast now I know and I can stop thinking about her in that way, and I can be more free, emotionally. For some reason, I asked her whether she likes him, and to my surprise she replied, no, she just likes him as a friend but does not want to break his heart since he helped her during her breakup. At this point, I felt more bad for that other guy than myself, poor him, he doesn't even know. After a few days, she made a food delivery of the exact same thing that we ate when she came earlier. She said to me on whatsapp, that's the only memory of good times we both had. Not sure what went through my mind, I simply denied to take the order, stopped talking to her and deleted her number. I felt that she was doing all this, just to get help in the office related work from me. I still ask myself if I did something wrong here, whether I should have taken the food and continued talking to her.

For the next experience, there was another girl in office whom I met during one of those silly HR games, and we both kept looking at each other every other minute and kept smiling. After the game, I gathered some courage and talked with her, just about work and which college she studied from, casual things. After a few talks with her, I asked for her number, which she gave happily. Now whenever I texted her, she would reply very late, most of the time single word replies, she would say I'm in some work and will message me after some time, only to never message me. It was always me who initiated the convesation. I understood she's not interested and after trying multiple times and same thing happening again and again, I gave up. The thing is she would be really friendly in office, talking with me, laughing, touching me on shoulders, but on digital chat, she would be a completely different person, like she's not at all interested in me and wants to get rid of me. Her team started coming to office on different days, and with the only way to talk being whatsapp, I gradually stopped talking to her. (Please tell me if I should have done something else here)

Now, after a few weeks, through a common school friend, I got of contact an old school friend. I started talking with her, just remembering old school memories. And once on chat, she jokingly asked, since I live in a flat with two rooms, do I live with my girlfriend, to which I said no. And asked her the same question, is she in relationship, to which she replied, she doesn't look that good and who would get in a relationship with her. I told her, it's not like that, one should not think like that about themselves and she looks good. Over the course of multiple weeks, I indirectly found out that she actually has a lot of friends, regularly hangs out with them and who pay a lot attention to her. Now why would she say she does not look good and all when she already have a lot of close boy&lt;space&gt;friends who would like to have relationship with her ?

One more: got to know someone from same graduation batch is in city (was working from home due to some reasons). She sent a mail to the graduation batch, she's open to meet people in office since we all joined as work from home and weren't able to meet when we joined. Met her in Office, spent over an hour talking with her over some office related, some casual and some personal stuff, same with her, she shared the same things about her. Talked both in Office and on whatsapp chat, she kinda seemed interested the way she was talking(or maybe I read it wrong), and then I came to knew she hasn't even saved my number (I was unable to see the profile photo after a few days when she went back to her hometown). Well, in this case, think of it more as just being a friend, I'm fine with it, I'm just wondering after such a good time and all the laughing with me, why wasn't my number saved. Was she there just to meet a lot of boys, and she found someone else better than me, so didn't even save my phone number.

I have two more similar experiences, but some other time. 

I generally don't judge, because I know your face is something you can't change, but in case you guys want to know, all of the above girls, were below average in looks, some even way below. It baffles me, how it's bad for me to judge them for their weight (which can be changed), but it's okay for them to judge me on my face and height, which cannot be changed (maybe because of bad gender ratio here in India ?). I'll be honest, the simple reason why I don't even try to get in relationship with good looking girls is, because I know, anyone who looks good already has 10-20 simps in their life, some to help them in office, some to help them travel, some for parties, some for dining out, some for other work, and I don't want to become another simp/creep in their DMs. I want a meaningful relationship where both the people understand each other, and like to spend time with each other every now and then. After being taken a lot advantage in college (for assignments and projects, me being a nerd), I don't want that to happen again.

Now before I ask for your help and why I fear future me, I want to put a small hypothesis here. Is it possible that both men and women have become more choosy because of so many options in their pocket (dating apps) that they could just choose someone else the very next day if they want to. Another possibility is that social media (especially Instagram) and movies/tv shows are setting up their expectations way to high ? Is is possible that most of the men have become way to much simpy (is that even a word ?) and girls have so many options to choose from, that they simply won't settle for something average, even though they are below average ?, because they know there are a lot simps waiting for them ?

I could sense that my family members are starting to believe I might be gay, since I haven't been in a proper relationship, combined with the fact that I cook and do household work. The worst part about being a male in mid 20s in India who's not in a relationship is that the society as well as family members think of you as a loser, like literally as some loser.

Now why I fear future me: With all this happening, I have started to bear some sort of resentment, and I hate myself for it. If this keeps going on, I genuinely fear I might become a i*c*l or extreme r*d pil**d. And I really don't want to become one. Please tell me where I've been going wrong, where I could improve and save me from becoming an i*c*l. I've been feeling very weird lately, eating junk food, watching youtube, and playing video games all day since past 3 weeks. Haven't been out of my room, made some excuses to work from home in this past 3 weeks. I'm really afraid I might become one of those unmarried half bald uncles whom the society hates for whatever reason (yes I care about society thinks of me). I would be very thankful if girls could provide their thoughts on this, I know I'm wrong at a lot of places, but please, just let me know, so that atleast I can try improving and changing myself for better, be as harsh as possible, I need to know. Also is it a red flag when the guy knows how to cook ? I've seen them getting less interested whenever I say I can cook.