SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: International seller using Paypal India services to involve me in a shady parallel transaction.
DATE: 2021-08-06
SCORE: 55
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/oz076k/international_seller_using_paypal_india_services/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello Everyone! 

My motive for posting this is to ask you fine people if any consumer remedy exists. Paypal India clearly seems to be confident that they can get away with this. They wont even confirm if I and India is a victim of financial fraud here or not. Here are the details of the scam i have fallen victim to.

Double invoice pictures here: [https://imgur.com/a/bVfGi9H](https://imgur.com/a/bVfGi9H) 

**Brief details about the scam that I have fallen victim to** 

1. I bought two products from an international marketplace like ebay that connected me to a seller in Greece, I paid my invoice via paypal and got a receipt with a certain transaction number. 

2. I received the products, one product received by me was perfectly fine, however the other looked like a bootleg (counterfeit) 

3. here is the interesting bit, I received a second physical invoice with a different transaction number, to me this implies that my order could be used to launder money and i certainly did not receive what I ordered under the transaction number for which I paid on paypal. 

4. Paypal,  offers buyers protection, but this buyers protection is based of the invoice issued through Paypal, the seller had reported  order quantity of 1, when I actually received two items like I ordered. Because of this Paypal thinks I am misrepresenting my order to them,they don't seem to understand that their customer seller support is being lied to on the details of what the seller sent. They tell me to ship the items back to get my refund but they don't understand that I can't depend on the seller to give me a full refund on an item misrepresented to paypal. I have no choice but to swallow what the seller sent. Paypals request to reship the item back and rely on seller being honest enough to report the item correctly to paypal makes me feel extremely vulnerable in this transaction. I have enough correspondence with the seller to prove that it is perfectly rational for me to not trust the seller. 

5. I also have enough correspondance with paypals customer service to prove that they are ignoring my pleas to have this transaction investigated for obvious fraud and misrepresentation I have shared evidence with them with full details on the nature of the bootleg I received and all pieces of this parallel fraud transaction down to my personal bank account details. Paypal support is simply ignoring my pleas and telling me to return the item to the seller.I have been lied to, Paypal itself has been lied to by a misrepresented invoice yet Paypal insists that I trust this seller and make myself vulnerable. 

6. I have attached the paypal invoice and the fake physical invoice to back what I am saying here. Aside from this i have a mountain of evidence and the full background and possible motive of this financial fraud that I would rather not bother you people with right now. 

&amp;#x200B;

Is there anything I can do to atleast get a confirmation from Paypal if this is fraud or not? they are robotically and mechanically telling me to just return and then wait for seller to refund based on what he gets. (I have no problem returning this goods, if refund process was actually fair and did not expect me to rely on a lying seller)