SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scammers claiming to restore my Facebook profile have gotten me to send them $50,000.
DATE: 2023-12-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18in9nj/scammers_claiming_to_restore_my_facebook_profile/

--- POST TEXT ---

A little over a month ago I responded to a post in a Facebook “Help” group. Several people in the group claim to be Meta Certified and that they can recover your profile and page. 
My original account got shut down by Facebook. A woman on Instagram with nude pictures tagged me in her pics. Oddly they did not shut down my Instagram but instead shut down my Facebook account. My account has several business pages where I have spent years building an audience. I really want to recover them. 
Reaching Meta was impossible. Friends sent requests on my behalf. My dad was dying and I needed to reach some of my family and his friends. Meta never responded. Dad died. 
So I joined the FB group and messaged one of the “Meta Certified” people. His job is to serve as liaison between me and the Meta people that can only be emailed. They asked for money and I sent money to their contacts using cash apps. This happened over and over again as they “discovered” more “issues” with my account. All along the liaison said all the money I pay them will be refunded when they are done. Sending a lot of money is actually difficult. My bank started holding payments. I spent a lot of time on the phone with them and cash app representatives to get the payments pushed through. Meanwhile each delay costed me more money and I was caught in a downward spiral. I had given them so much money at this point that I felt I had to keep going so i could get my refund. Finally my liaison had “Meta Supervision” contact me and take over. The process continued. They would say they “placed” a certain amount for me and I had to meet the amount or no refund no Facebook access. One time I overpaid because of transfer fees and they placed a new amount that was $5000 more . I had overpaid by only a couple hundred dollars. So then I would have to send more money to meet the placement. Finally it worked out. They sent me an email saying how much would be refunded to my PayPal account and asked me to confirm that was my account. At the bottom of the email in small print was a PayPal logo and lettering that read I had to pay a transfer fee of $10000. I was furious. Apparently I was too critical of them. My liaison would beg me not to send angry emails. Everyone I communicated with is foreign. I believe the meta supervisors are middle eastern and my liaison is Indian. They agreed to accept $6000 which they claimed would be refunded to me minutes after sending it. I couldn’t get the money transferred with cash apps. They made me get gift cards. Yes, the activity you are most warned not to do. I met the placement amount again. Now they are asking for another $10,000 transfer fee. I’m into my retirement money at this point. 
I called spoke to a financial advisor through my employee assistance program. He said there is nothing I can do. The scammers are out of local law enforcement’s jurisdiction. I won’t recover my money. My liaison told me the reason they charged additional fees was because i had insulted them. 
I don’t know what to do now. 
I searched for scams like this in Google and never got an example of their scam. My liaison claims the agency has been doing this 15 years with no complaints. 
I filed some information on the FBI’s site. The financial advisor said they will not help.