PLS STOP ALL THIS FAKE SMS. HOW COULD VODAFONE IS ALLOW TO SEND THE SMS.VODAFONE SHOULD TAKE CARE OF SUCH KIND OF FAKE SMS AND MAILS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Claims Department - O2 Promotions 260 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 4DX - United Kingdom Tel: +44 [protected]/ Fax: + 44 [protected] ATTENTION: DIPAWNITA DUTTA, We received your e-mail regarding winning notification sent to you earlier by our Awards Department. Please be informed, the 2009 Award of O2TELECOMS is no doubt 'rather a momentous achievement in the chequered history of this Organization. All participants were selected randomly from World Wide Webs through computer draw system. Phone numbers were extracted from over 170, 287 Companies and 454, 980, 476 Web-sites for this winning coupon draw. This promotion is part of our financial empowerment program to individuals and companies for 2009 Award Promotions. After due confirmation of your mobile number: which subsequently won you five hundred thousand Great Britain Pounds (£500, 000.00 GBP) organized by O2TELECOMMUNICATIONS company; your prize claim has been approved and processing of payment will commence by our remitting department upon identification of whom payment is made to. You are further advised to identify yourself by sending a valid copy of your *identification either driver's license, international passport, working ID or voter's card via e-mail attachment: [protected]@live.com for quick approval of your prize payment by our remitting department. Note, payment can be made to you - via swift telegraphic bank transfer which requires your *full banking details for successful bank transfer into your account within (24) hours or payment can be made to via certified cashier's cheque which requires your *full current residing address for accurate delivery of prize cheque to your address within (48) hours. You are further advised to inform us with *full details, method of payment you want to receive your won prize-money. congratulations once again being one of the lucky winners. Thank you, Dr. Mathew Ralph, {Claims Department}