SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Unsure of an "employment" offer my girlfriend received recently:
DATE: 2020-10-21
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/jfag56/unsure_of_an_employment_offer_my_girlfriend/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, guys. Really appreciate the service .. this sub reddit, etc etc.... 
(Also, throwaway account here for obvious reasons...)

Anyway, the story goes like this: My girlfriend was browsing around on Facebook as she usually does during the day off and on, and perked up and said she may have found a way for her to generate some passive income for us on the side... The offer was for her to agree to "wrap" her vehicle with a company branding and logos and drive around promoting their products in public while she makes her commute and runs errands in town for "BANG ENERGY" specifically ...

She filled out the required information and submitted the form to them online and we didn't think much more of it. I honestly had forgotten about her even doing it until, we got a letter here on our doorstep from FedEx... which included a letter, describing what they expected from us to get the ball rolling for them as far as employment went... and to our surprise... a $2,000 check.

The letter explained to us that... They expected us to go and deposit the check in our bank... Keep $500 for the first weeks pay.. and keep the remainder of the check to be able to pay the technician that was going to be scheduled to come out to do the wrapping work on the vehicle and send a picture of the deposit slip from OUR bank in a form of a picture to a email address that they included in the letter from FedEx...

We instead went straight to a check cashing business here locally in town... Once we got there, the employee at that check cashing place immediately said to my girlfriend... She recognized it as fraud, and refused to cash the check on the spot... However, the following week, we called the bank in which the check was issued... and they were able to confirm that was in fact a real and actual account in their system... and it was legit, an actual real check issued by the bank that these people sent us the letter from... 

We then went again the next week ... and tried to cash it again... and got all the way to the VERY END before being able to cash it at the check cashing business and they stopped us and said that we would need to have a working telephone number to be able to speak to them directly over the phone and verify that we were able to cash this check... Obviously, we did have a number and an email address, and I wrote them and asked them to get in touch with me, and eventually they did... I was very formal and straightforward with them, but they didn't seem very professional at all and actually hung up on me 3 different times and everytime they "hung up" it was becasuse I mentioned the subject cashing the check and needing a verficiation from them about needing a verification from our bank. (He didn't seem to want to talk about that...) In the course of speaking to him in just probably about a 10 minute conversation... They sounded as if they were from India or the Middle East in general ... and used a "Google Voice" telephone service number... (Which if I were to say anything about them if they were running a legitimate business, I think they would have had at least some sort of actual physical real number tied to a telephone service provider... 

**I guess, the TLDR of this post would be:** I heard that it could be a possibility that if we were to actually go about and deposit this check into my account ... Is there any way they could do anything malicious or potentially steal my account information / identity ? And also, if it is, how were they able to get a legitimate real check from a business like that and be able to pass it off to the point where we were almost able to actually cash it and walk out the door with $2,000 and it wasn't a second party check, it was a real "printed" check...