SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Weirdest possible Etsy scam
DATE: 2023-03-18
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/11ubwq9/weirdest_possible_etsy_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Strap in...

Background. I do a lot of costuming, so often buy from Etsy, usually from eastern Europe because I find cost:postage:quality to be the best there.
With the war I have looked at indian.

I got a bit manic and decided to basically buy a knights costume.
I know those sorts of sellers copy other designs sometimes, and the quality isn't always top notch. But ignoring those ethical things for now.

I get a gamberson from a store with USA in the name, but shipped from India (better for me anyway, post is cheaper). He takes my size. Big store, well established, lots of good reviews.

I get a suit of armour... Didn't check the store, very new, only 3 sales. 1 review looked legit, had pic, had a few complaints etc. Oops
Owner is very responsive, I ask for a few modifications, he says yes, adjusts the price, and asks me to pay by PayPal. I said I would rather buy through Etsy for buyer protection. Without hesitation he lists the custom listing. So I buy it.
He message me a manufacture time. Checks in a few times. Then I get a whatsapp message from him. Just giving me an update. I check the store, it has been deleted! Panic... I message him there, he says his account was disabled for technical reasons.
I decide there was nothing to do but hang around and see if I actually got scammed.
Guy checks in every few days, sent me pictures of the pieces, which included all my customisations clearly visible. Meta data on the photo says it was just taken, from in India. Maybe not a scam...

The gamberson arrives from India. Actually really amazing quality. But it is too small. Message the seller to organise something. He says return postage isn't worth it so he will just make a new one and send that to me, no charge. His reviews indicate this isn't uncommon.
Cool!

The armour guy messages me on WhatsApp to say he is shipping today. Then asks if I want to go into partnership with him, run a store for him based in Australia. I kinda brush it off and say I'll see what his quality looks like and think about it. He says ok and drops it.
Messages the next day to say he isn't shipping because he forgot one of mya custom add-ons.
2 days later he sends me a picture of those pieces.
The next day I get an email from FedEx with tracking info, tracking is added to the item on Etsy, and he messages me to tell me he sent it, and asks me to confirm I got the tracking.
By all of that I am dubious I will get an item... But, seeing it through to the end

Gamberson guy then messages me on WhatsApp, seemingly just to chat. He shows me pics of other products he is making. Asks about my costume making.
Then asks if I want to do a partnership with him. I set up a store based in Aust, he makes the stuff and sends it, and I use my bank account. This is after armour guy made the same offer.
Worrying... But I want the replacement gamberson, so I play along and say I need to think about it.
But I am now curious as fuck.
Gamberson guys personal photo on the USA branded shop, and WhatsApp match. Different pics, but same guy.
His name is in his whatsapp too.
I google the mobile number. It is linked to multiple stores all selling the same types of items, all have the same address in India. All have the phone number I was contacted on as it's primary contact. Matching the name of the guy whatsapping me. And all the websites are 2-3 years old.
Looking up the address, I get a company name. The company has existed since 2015, registered to the name of the guy messaging me. The company has multiple certificates for compliance and stuff. Look them up on those companies websites, they are real, and show they have been updated as they expired.
Also shows they have 25 employees, registered for tax.
He video calls me to talk about partnership! (I don't answer, and fob him off by message a few hours later)
He doesn't seem angry or aggressive like scammer usually are, and he has already sent me a quality item that he is now replacing... So... Wtf...
I message gamberson guy on Etsy, and he says there he will give me a new shipping number tomorrow. And he did.

Still super confused, I look into the tracking numbers.
Gamberson guy and armour guy both were collected from the same city. That's the gamberson that arrived. The gamberson on its way, and the armour on its way.
I look deeper. It is sent by the same company!
The company that gamberson guys name and phone number is linked to to. The company that I am 99% sure exists.

So is this guy offering partnerships to all Australians he sells to?
What is a partnership?
What's the scam? (When I said I run all that stuff through my accountant, because of tax issues. he told me to ask my account what documents he would need to give me)

If it's a scam, why did they send me 1 item already?
If the armour is a scam, where did he get real photos of my specific custom item?

I am now waiting for the replacement gamberson and armour.
The fedex tracking numbers all have my real address, including the one that already arrived.

I don't know what to think, or expect?
It seems so dodgy and legit at the same time.
Days worth of googling has shown me no indication of a scam like this existing 

Also, after the first guy asked me to partner and mentioned my bank account, I changed the PayPal account I used password. Disconnected all my cards, accounts, and googleplay off there. Changed my banking password, and put a hold on the account that PayPal drew the money from, because I am paranoid.

But what the hell is going on?
What happens now?
What do I expect?