SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: CBI questions Anil Ambani in connection with Reliance Communications case
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-19
URL: https://theprint.in/india/cbi-questions-anil-ambani-in-connection-with-reliance-communications-case/2883820/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 19 (PTI) The CBI on Thursday questioned industrialist Anil Ambani for nearly eight hours in connection with a Rs 2,929-crore cheating case, registered against Reliance Communications Ltd and him on a complaint by the State Bank of India, officials said.
The industrialist, who is facing several investigations in CBI cases, has been called again on Friday for questioning, they said.
Ambani arrived at the agency headquarters at around 10.15 and was taken to the investigation team after the completion of formalities. He left the agency headquarters at around 6.15 in the evening.
Show Full Article
“In connection with the case registered by CBI on August 21, 2025 against Reliance Communications Limited in Rs. 2929.05 crore Bank Fraud case in which Reliance Communications Limited, Anil D Ambani and others unknown including unknown public servants, are accused, the CBI summoned Anil D Ambani for interrogation today at CBI Head Office at Delhi,” a CBI spokesperson said in a statement.
“The accused Anil D Ambani appeared before the Investigating Officer today and has been interrogated for about 8 Hours. For further questioning, the accused has been directed to appear before the investigating officer tomorrow as well,” the spokesperson said.
According to the statement, the agency questioned Ambani about the decision-making process at the company, several emails exchanged between him and executives also came up.
The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also sought his responses on alleged fund diversion, misappropriation and other irregularities in the loan funds issued to the company by the bank, they said.
The businessman’s spokesperson in a statement said that Ambani would be appearing before the CBI in Delhi on March 19 and 20 “for examination in connection with the FIR registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the State Bank of India.” The statement also read, “The appearance is in furtherance to Mr Ambani’s commitment to extend full cooperation in the matter with all agencies.” The CBI had booked Ambani in August last year for allegedly defrauding the SBI to the tune of Rs 2,929 crore, officials said.
According to the SBI complaint, now part of the FIR, the company had an outstanding of over Rs 40,000 crore to various lenders, with the public sector bank alone facing a loss of Rs 2,929 crore, according to 2018 figures.
The CBI booked Ambani and RCom for allegedly committing offences of criminal conspiracy, cheating and criminal breach of trust.
“It is alleged that the accused persons, in criminal conspiracy, misrepresented and got sanctioned credit facilities from SBI in favour of Reliance Communication Ltd,” a CBI spokesperson said in a statement in August last year.
Ambani’s spokesperson responded, “Anil D Ambani denies all allegations and charges, and will duly defend himself.” According to sources, the agency also searched the Ambani residence ‘Sea Wind’ at Cuffe Parade in Mumbai.
The complaint filed by SBI pertains to matters dating back more than 10 years, according to Ambani’s spokesperson.
At that time, Ambani was a non-executive director of the company, with no involvement in the day-to-day management, a statement from his spokesperson then said.
“The matter remains sub-judice, pending before the NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) and other judicial forums, including the Supreme Court, for the past six years,” it said.
Anil Ambani has duly challenged SBI’s declaration before the competent judicial forum, it said. PTI ABS VN VN
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.