SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: How to Open a Demat  Account Online
AUTHOR: By:Kapil Joshi
DATE: 2024-11-27
URL: https://theprint.in/brandstand/adon/how-to-open-a-demat-account-online/2377018/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Y
ou can store shares and assets electronically using a Demat Account, sometimes referred to as a Dematerialised Account. When trading online, shares are bought and kept in a Demat Account, which facilitates trading for customers. A Demat Account combines a person’s holdings in bonds, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, equities, and government securities.
To trade online, an investor needs to
open Demat account
with a Depository Participant (DP). This blog post explains the steps involved in opening a Demat account.
How to Open a Demat  Account Online?
The process of opening a Demat account was very time-consuming and included hefty documentation. This is why the online procedure was introduced to save traders and investors from such troubles, which are mentioned below.
Show Full Article
Step 1: Research Available Depository Participants
There are various depository participants in the market that offer Demat account opening services. Each of them offers its own merits and demerits which must be understood in detail before deciding to go with a particular one. Some of the features offered by these participants are minimal documentation and a well-established reputation. Apart from this one must also check for the security features offered by such participants as one needs to provide their banking details to them which are crucial.
Step 2: Enter Essential Details
Once one has selected a suitable depository participant based on their needs and requirements. They need to provide these participants with some essential details which they need to verify the user’s identity. This verification is crucial because the platform holds the banking and financial information of its participants and any unauthorised access can harm this information. The details required by these participants are identity proof, address proof, income proof, signature and financial details.
Step 3: Document Verification and Approval
After entering the required details, the concerned authority needs to perform a verification check of these documents to confirm one’s identity. This confirmation assures the authority that a person is a genuine citizen of the country. For this, the concerned authority can also conduct various background checks of the person applying to open the Demat account. This check earlier used to take a considerable amount of time but now with everything being online, it gets completed quickly. Once the authority is satisfied with the user’s identity, they approve their application by sending OTP on the registered ID.
Step 4: Submit Required Documents
A person applying to open a Demat account online also needs to submit various other documents for additional confirmation of their identity. These documents can include identity details such as an Aadhar card or PAN card, income details such as salary slips, address details such as electricity bills etc. One may also be asked to provide their signature’s scanned copy for further assurance.
Step 5: Complete KYC Process
After submitting essential documents one needs to complete the KYC process for opening a Demat account which can be easily done through an
online trading app
. Various confirmations regarding one’s income, employment etc have been performed earlier so in this step one needs to provide a cancelled cheque for banking details. Apart from that one needs to complete the in-person verification for which one needs to open one’s phone’s camera and provide a live or at the moment recorded video confirming one’s identity.
Benefits of a Demat  Account
There are various benefits offered by a Demat account online which makes it a considerable option over offline account maintenance. These benefits are mentioned below for easy reference.
Cost Effective
Earlier maintaining physical share certificates included a lot of costs which were stamp duty, handling fees, any additional expenses etc. This problem has been eliminated with the introduction of electronic storage of these securities removing the cost attached to it as well.
Easy Tracking
Share certificates were maintained in physical form earlier. For this one needed to have a record of every certificate of the company they held shares of. Keeping a record of multiple documents was quite tough. This problem is resolved by electronic storage, as now one can access multiple securities altogether on their phone.
Reduced Risk of Loss
Maintenance of securities online has also reduced or eliminated the risk of loss or theft of these securities. This is because these securities are held in online Demat accounts which are password-protected and can be accessed by password only. This can be done by the owner of the securities and not just by anyone.
Conclusion
Securities were previously stored as papers, which left them open to fraud, theft, and relocation. Nonetheless, you can use an online Demat account to retain your assets electronically. Anyone who wishes to trade in the stock market today still needs a Demat account. Now that you know how to do it, you can go ahead and open a Demat account.
ThePrint BrandStand content is a paid-for, sponsored article. Journalists of ThePrint are not involved in reporting or writing it.