SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Internet strangers are pathetic.
DATE: 2024-06-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1dqcsvs/internet_strangers_are_pathetic/

--- POST TEXT ---

Lately, I’ve noticed a troubling trend with guys on the internet, and it makes me wonder if this behavior is considered normal or just plain creepy. Any random pretty girl who appears online often finds herself being stalked. Take street interviews, for example. You’ll find hundreds of comments asking for the girl’s ID, and there are entire channels and pages dedicated to tracking down their profiles. Then there’s this new trend with ‘Tailor akka’. She’s undeniably pretty, which I can acknowledge as a woman, but isn’t that irrelevant to her profession? She’s not an actress or model; she’s a designer. Wouldn't it be better if she gained recognition for her designs rather than being turned into thirst traps?

This is just one example among hundreds of people who’ve gone viral. In my humble opinion, the only person who has effectively used their viral fame is Sameeha (potato face). She has both lovers and haters, but I'm not getting into that. She went viral for a music video and then leveraged that fame to start a podcast, which seems like the best use of her virality. But what about the other girls who went viral? The same people who once idolized them and begged for their IDs are now the ones hurling abuse and calling them cringe for the very things that made them famous. Don't you think this kind of harassment in their comment sections could be damaging to their mental health? There are those who court negative publicity, but many simply face hate for being themselves. By engaging with negative publicity, you’re indirectly supporting it, and spreading hate towards normal creators is just sad.

Just when I thought it couldn’t get worse, it did. People have stooped to SEXUALISING MINORS AND HARASSING CHILDREN. You’ll find the comment sections of some kids (not gon mention them here to bring additional attention) filled with incels spewing trash about their bodies, sexualizing them to the point where it’s frightening to even leave the house as a woman. Imagine seeing those comments and realizing that the predators could be anyone—your neighbor, your friend, your family member, or anyone you know in society. I’m now 19, and I wonder how I could bring a child into this world someday down the lane knowing such predators exist. These trends terrify me.