SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Being Harassed By A Software Company
DATE: 2022-06-24
SCORE: 47
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/vjj4p6/being_harassed_by_a_software_company/

--- POST TEXT ---

In January 2022, we purchased a billing and inventory software from a company called Online Munim or OMunim based in Pune for our retail outlet. They had initially promised us of certain features which were non existent when we purchased it, amount being Rs. 15,000 excluding GST. These features were very common amongst other softwares in the industry. The software additionally had multiple bugs and glitches leading to calculation mistakes too, which were serious enough for us. 

We called the company representatives every other day since that in hopes of getting us what was promised. They diverted the promised deadlines by months together every single time. Have email proof. They created so much nuisance for us past these months. I randomly demanded for a refund for a way to get out of this mess, but they were reluctant and simply said no refund policy. They ultimately stopped picking our calls and we were exhausted with them. They push out experimental builds every single time and expect us to test it leading to problems in every other builds.

After about 5 months, we still hadn't got what was initially promised to us while purchasing. I decided to lodge a complaint against them on ConsumerHelpline portal. Next day, I received a call from them stating my requests are completed and ready. I straight away demanded compensation for the harassment they have caused us all these months along with the fixes. They were not willing to understand our situation at all. They left us hanging all these months. They submitted a one sided and irrelevant response to the portal and closed the complaint. The portal also closed the complaint without any consideration.

I decided to give them one last shot by taking their update. After the update they provided, we faced some serious totalling mistakes in bill. Inventory rates were not updating to new rates inputs. Some more bugs and glitches. I lost it and decided that I have to put a end to it. I sent out a final email to them stating my views on it and told them we will not use their software as we don't have confidence in it and our company can not bear the consequences if we choose to. I asked them for refund along with compensation for the mental harassment all these months in the email. 

They don't seem to understand us in any way and only think one sided by their tone. They tell their own problems that we did that and that but to no success. They want us to wait for them as if it's nothing to ask of. Even in their emails they describe themselves like they are doing us a favor by giving us those features for free, which were clearly promised to us.

I am committed in making the company pay for their doings and unfair trade practices. I want to file a complaint against them in consumer court, but I'm afraid it'll end up costly to no extent. Have call recordings from day one for proof. I request you to please help us in getting us justice. Thank you for your time and effort in doing so, I really appreciate it.

**Edit:** This is the remark that I had got from ConsumerHelpline(NCH) following the response from company.

*'The grievance was taken up with the company by NCH, and the company has replied under company response. In case you still feel the need to pursue the case with the company for further relief/ compensation in the absence of suitable/ acceptable redressal, you may file a case at the designated Consumer Commission from a place of your convenience, offline. For more information, please visit http://www.ncdrc.nic.in/districtlist.html. For online filing of cases at Consumer Commission, you may visit https://edaakhil.nic.in and follow the process described step-by-step on the portal after confirming that the concerned State has launched the e- filing portal. For more information, please visit https://edaakhil.nic.in/edaakhil/faces/login.xhtml Facility of hearing over video-conferencing is also available as per provision Section 38 (6) of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 provided that the District Commission may, on sufficient cause being shown, and after recording its reasons in writing, allow the same. Cases filed in the Consumer Commissions are attempted to be disposed off within a period of three months from the date of receipt of notice by the opposite party where the complaint does not require analysis or testing of commodities and within five months if it requires analysis or testing of commodities as mentioned under sub-section (7) of Section 38 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019.'*