SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: This is bugging me just a little bit
DATE: 2018-07-02
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/8vcgid/this_is_bugging_me_just_a_little_bit/

--- POST TEXT ---

Apply for a payday loan and immediately receive a bunch of email offers that pretty much all need the same information. Fill out a few of them and get an email and call back from someone with an Indian accent who says he represents a pretty well-known company (the loan business must suck for legit East Indian folks). I have a bit of experience dealing with scammers so I'm skeptical but at the same time there's enough confirmation bias in me to at least hope that these guys are telling the truth and actually there rap and emails that they send at least sort of look legitimate. Also I called them back a few times and they had set up fairly convincing sounding voice mails takes exactly 3 minutes to do over Google but still...
So they have to verify that I have enough money to cover a month of the loan. I say well that's okay how should I show this to you and they say the magic word which is steam cards. I almost broke out laughing. So uh, no. So here's my question. At first I was thinking this might be some kind of a remote deposit scam because when I told them about my bank they first said that they couldn't use that bag but I happen to have a different account and they said that one's fine. Then my second thought was that the scam what was actually in the steam cards themselves. And then just give us the back numbers and we take off with them and you'll never see us again. But now I can't figure out if the scam was in the steam cards white gold and tell me that my bank account wouldn't work with their company? What was I missing? The coverage for the loan per month was only about a hundred bucks which seems like a very small amount for as much prep work as they put into this, official-looking emails, voicemails, some kind of Make-Believe voicemail routing system. And of course a fake phone number at least I presume it was fake with a California area code. Any help on this would be great