SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Melania Trump and a humanoid walk into the White House. The jokes haven’t stopped
AUTHOR: Vitasta Kaul
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/melania-trump-humanoid-robot-white-house/2889087/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
The future made a carefully choreographed entry into the White House on 25 March, as
United States First Lady
Melania Trump walked down the red carpet alongside a humanoid robot on
day two
of the global
Fostering the Future Together Global Coalition Summit
on artificial intelligence and education.
The scene, reminiscent of a science fiction film, unfolded as the pair moved in step to a hallway lined with delegates. Trump paused at the entrance, while the robot, Figure 03, developed by Silico
n V
alley startup Figure AI, continued ahead, navigated around the table of panellists
heading to
the front of the room and introduc
ed
itself.
“Thank you, First Lady Melania Trump, for inviting me to the White House,” the
US-made humanoid said after briefly scanning the room and calling
its presence a “historic movement to empower children with technology and education.”
Show Full Article
The humanoid
waved before
stepping away to greet
the audience in eleven different languages.
“It’s fair to state
that
you’re my first American-made humanoid guest in the White House,” Trump
said in her opening remarks.
The summit brought together representatives
, including spouses of world leaders,
from 45 countries, alongside executives from major technology companies, including Microsoft, Google, and OpenAI. Among those in attendance were France’s Brigitte Macron, Ukraine’s Olena Zelenska and Israel’s Sara Netanyahu. The initiative was first announced by
Trump in September 2025
during the 80th session of the
United Nations
General Assembly.
In her keynote address, Trump outlined three pillars she said would shape the next generation
—
use of
AI
to personalise learning, the emergence of humanoid educators as at-home tools for students, and technology and education as drivers of the US economy.
Also Read:
‘Tehran Tames Trump’—Indian news TV mocks five-day pause as Western media scratches its head
Melania Trump’s AI push
The robot featured at the event is the third-generation model unveiled by Figure AI,
an American robotics company known for developing AI-powered humanoids,
in October 2025. Designed for domestic use, it is capable of performing household tasks such as cleaning, laundry and washing dishes autonomously.
Brett Adcock
, Figure AI CEO,
posted
on X, “So proud to see F.03 make history as the first humanoid robot in the White House.”
The summit builds on Trump’s “Fostering the Future” initiative, which aims to expand global access to education and digital tools for children. The White House, in an official
statement
, described it
as a coalition of nations aligned to empower children through technology and learning, and said
that
it marked the first time a US First Lady had convened delegates from 45 countries in a single day.
“Our key driver is to cultivate the skills young people need to be successful in this rapidly evolving world. Fostering the Future Together will achieve this by creating innovative learning programs, advocating for supportive education policies, sponsoring new tech-focused legislation, and building strong partnerships between the public and private sectors,” Trump said while addressing the delegates. She urged countries to collaborate across sectors, establish regional networks and invest in research.
Also Read:
Statue of Liberty was bombed in latest AI video. How Iran escalates meme war with US-Israel
A flurry of memes and jokes
Clips from the event quickly went viral, drawing mixed reactions online. Some expressed unease at the spectacle, while others hailed it as a glimpse into a rapidly approaching future.
One X
user
called it “a bold way to showcase American tech on a global stage.”
An X post
read
, “This is the exact moment humans lost control–and everyone’s blindly applauding…this doesn’t feel like innovation.”
“It’s not the robot that worries me the most. It is the naturalness with which we accept it. When we begin to replace human presence with machines in the most symbolic spaces of power, we are saying something profound about how we value (or devalue) the genuinely human,”
chimed
in another user.
(Edited by Insha Jalil Waziri)