SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Nominee fraud by a bank employee in one of the nationalized banks.
DATE: 2022-04-16
SCORE: 56
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/u4rs67/nominee_fraud_by_a_bank_employee_in_one_of_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

I opened a student account in one of the nationalized banks within our college campus during my engineering as it was required to make college fees payments almost 80% of our college students have an account in this bank every year.

I still remember while opening the account when I opted for the nominee as my mother in the application, the bank officer told me as it is a student account I cannot get a nominee or a nominee is not required.

Down the time after 12years till now, I had been using this account for my savings funds to resist my expenses and also to cultivate a financial hobby, as I had a Salaried account in some other Pvt bank. 

Until the last 5 years, this bank didn't provide a net banking facility to all of its account holders. 
Since the net banking facility to transfer money was not available for student accounts I gave a request to this nationalized bank to change my account type to a normal saving account with my updated signature. 

Just to know my girlfriend, since we were from the same college also has an account in the same bank.

My Girlfriend has some good amounts of saving from her family for her marriage, when she discussed this with me I suggested her to open FD so that she can get more returns compared to the savings account as the plan was for the short term.

She asked me to help her open the FD through the fixed deposit, and gave me her net banking credentials to access her account. 
I logged in to her account and took all the details through call and I was in the final stage of submitting the FD application, I noticed that there was some stranger's name in her nominee pre-select list and it was of a guy's name. Since I know my girlfriend's whole relatives and all her friends' names, I felt something fishy about my girlfriend and asked her who is that guy on the nominee list.

She acted clueless about the name. Later when I checked her saving account nominee online I got to know that this name was the nominee for her whole saving account. At that point, I thought there may be a mistake in the bank by their database or some human error in the bank.

We both checked our passbook which is at least 5 years old and has the nominee row as '**0**'.

Just to cross-check I then checked my nominee in my account and to my surprise even there was some lady's name in my nominee also, which I have not noticed all these days on net banking. Fortunately, the address, email ID, and that lady's account number were all updated in my nominee, which made me a bit easy to track that lady.

The irony is that she is the wife of one of the employees who were working at the same bank and same branch of the respective bank (I have an audio recording of the call where I gathered this information and also the employee's name and phone number). 

So, my understanding of this issue is the employees have been making one of the family members a nominee to all the accounts whose nominee is not registered. 
All these accounts have a minimum balance of at least 1000 ₹, this is a big engineering college where every year there are at least 2000 new accounts opened at this bak approximately as per my rough calculation may be the number will be far beyond this.

 
Among our bach itself, I had seen at least approximately 10 students expire before getting out of college due to suicide, road accident, and health issues. 

Please suggest to me what else can I do to bring this to light apart from just changing my nominee and feeling safe for myself.

As I know, if I go to the bank and report it directly they will just tell this as a mistake and close the matter. 

If the bank employee or whoever has been involved in this fraud had done this on purpose, I don't think that we need to just spare them.