His is Kavitha, we have contacted the vodafone Agent for a SIM card for loan purposes, for getting the last 3 months bills in the month of oct 2022, we paid Rs. 770 for the concerned coordinator on 15th Oct 2022, in order to provide the last 3 months bills.(Previous month bills) for address proof. SIN Number:[protected]. They took money from us and did not give any kind of bills nor they did not answer my calls, after taking money, after that we did not use the sim card we lost it. I have been telling this to people who are calling to make payment and asking them to disconnect the SIM. No one has responded properly, As one the executive suggested to go and explain the issue I went and made a complaint on the same in Yelahanka New Town, Bangalore Vodafone store, No 965 & 966, LIC, 16th B Cross Rd, next to Syndicate Bank, 2nd Stage, Yelahanka New Town, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560064. on Jan 7th 2023, a they said, a complaint has been registered and the concerned team who gave SIM they will contact us within 48 hrs, and revisited on 13th Jan 2023; I did not get a call from them, nor from the vodafone center, I did not get the reference number for complaint raised, we did not get the resolution too. We paid the money, but we did not get the bills for loan purposes, and on top of that they are asking us to pay the money for the SIM we did not use. I have been asking to deactivate the SIM card, but it has not been deactivated. Kindly help me in resolving the issue, I have attached the payment receipt. Even after raising a complainant, the bill amount is increasing instead of providing me with the resolution. for two weeks on one has responded. We got the false information, in order to purchase the SIM card kindly request you to ratify the amount and deactivate the SIM card, as we purchased the sim card, as it was not promised to provide the previous months bills. All already we lost paying Rs. 770/- for the sim we don't required, kindly request you to deactivate the SIM Card an please ratify the bill amount. Basically we made to purchase the SIM by the false information given by someone. I don't want to pay again as we got the injustice, where we dont require a sim, as one of the customer care executive told, it is not possible to give previous months bills. When I raised the complaint they have not deactivated the SIM Card, but have ajusted the money I paid, Even now they want to want to charge money from me.