SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Getting incredibly irritated by scam calls that don’t end
DATE: 2025-02-06
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1iiqct7/getting_incredibly_irritated_by_scam_calls_that/

--- POST TEXT ---

The call is always a robotic voice telling
me how much money I could save on Medicare part A and B. At the end of the spiel she asks “so, do you have Medicare part A and B?” And if I say no, she more or less says “you’re not eligible, goodbye”. If I say yes, she transfers me to an agent. It’s almost always someone with an Indian accent that I can barely understand. I’ve tried asking immediately if they can stop calling me. They usually hang up without speaking and one time a guy told me he’d take me off their list. I’ve tried going along with it and then asking “what company do you work for?” And they just say Medicare enrollment. If I ask any more, they hang up. I’ve tried asking for their phone number or their manager and they just hang up. I did this repeatedly multiple times a day for a while. I eventually gave up and just stopped answering all calls. 

I thought it was over because the Medicare enrollment period was ending in November or December. The calls went from 13+ a day down to 10, then 8 etc… until the enrollment period ended and the calls stopped… for about two weeks. Then it was 3 a day. Then 5. Then 8. Now it’s anywhere from 13-20 calls every single day I get. And it’s ALWAYS one of two robotic voices. I’ve started answering and just telling the machine “STOP CALLING ME” and it says “I’m sorry, I’ll remove you from our list immediately”. But they still call. 

I live in Massachusetts and, from what I understand, it’s illegal for sales people to call you if you have asked them to put you on their “do not call list”. That’s why I’m certain this is a scam because the calls don’t stop. I’m at a loss. I don’t know what else I can do and it’s literally driving me insane. My phone rings in my pocket at work alllll day long. 

And I did not put my phone number into any sketchy internet sites. Just reputable businesses that I order things online from. I think someone sold my phone number to these asshats. 

Besides changing my phone number, any recommendations on how I can get this to stop? I’d REALLY appreciate it.