SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: New Scam? Dating Scam I experienced in Barcelona, Spain
DATE: 2024-06-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d5v25q/new_scam_dating_scam_i_experienced_in_barcelona/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm posting this to raise awareness and to see if anyone has experienced a similar scam. I've searched online and can't find anything similar. advice is also welcome.

TLDR: Went on a fake date and was duped into buying some overpriced sex toys from a fake/dissappeared store ran by the girl's friend/family. 

Read on for the bizzare story. 

I recently went on a date while on vacation in Barcelona, with a girl I met on Bumble. Her profile was verified and had several pictures. We chat and agree to meet for a drink around 9pm. Pretty standard - nothing seems suspicious and I even reverse-image searched her pictures to try to see if her pictures might have been stolen. Her profile says her name is Victoria, she's 22, and she's from Kyiv, Ukraine. No real red flags at this point for me. We both have our "Looking for" set as "Fun/casual dates", so it seems we both want to get a drink and potentially hook up.

She asks to meet at the "Indian Herbs" restaurant as that is near where she lives. We meet near there and go for a drink nearby. We order drinks and start chatting. She tells me how she's only lived there for a few days. She's from Kyiv, Ukraine and her father sent her there because the war is getting too dangerous. Also she doesn't speak English well so we're mostly using Google Translate to talk. Not ideal but not alarming either. She also looks like her main picture except she's dyed her hair from blonde to brown. Everything seems legit - she's a real woman and matches her photo-verified profile, and her story sounds valid and not like something someone would make up. She also mentioned that her parents are rich and made sure she's never had to work. I think "Ok she's a spoiled brat..." but I'm drinking, and she's fairly attractive, so I still want to hook up with her. 

After a while of chatting she says she's been smoking weed and feels awkward because I seem to still be sober. I finish my beer and help her finish the glass of wine she ordered that she said was too sweet to drink. Next we agree to get some drinks from the supermarket and to go to her place. She says she's staying with a friend but her friend has gone away for a few days so we can hangout at her place. I should have insisted on going to my hotel, but I think from a woman's perspective she probably would feel safer going to her place, so it is fine for me. Still no red flags - I've been on first dates that went this way. 

We get some drinks, snacks, and water from the store. We start walking and I continue to drink a beer as we walk. We're walking and she tells me "I'm feeling really hot. I want to be tied up with handcuffs. Can we go get some from a sex store?" Not really my cup of tea but I'm vacationing and think it could be fun to try. We keep walking and end up at an adult store. We go inside and there's a guy working at the counter - no customers. Everything seems fine as it's nearly 11pm so maybe it's a slow night? She starts asking me to get all kinds of adult toys (mostly bondage toys), which we grab and bring to the counter. The guy counts it up (about 12-13 items) and tells me it's 980€. Obviously shocked at the price, I say "No that's too much but we can get a couple things." She tried to convince me we should get more, insisting she really needs this and that thing, but I say no just three things is enough. Fairly drunk, feeling pressured, and wanting to just go because I feel a bit embarrassed by how she's acting in the store, I try to just tap my credit card to pay but it declines. The guy says I'll have to insert the card. He takes my card, inserts it, and passes it to me to enter my PIN. Now, I should have verified the amount first but I was getting 3 of like 12 items at this point, and I kept smaller items, so I expected it to be like 50€. My payment processes and we leave. 

We get a few blocks away and the girl starts telling me she's really upset that I wouldn't buy all of what she wanted. She has a bit of a tantrum for a couple minutes then says "I don't want to do anything!" She then storms off and disappears into the back streets of the area. Standing there wondering wtf just happened, I realize I need to return these adult toys I no longer need. I look at the small receipt from the bag and see the amount was 179€! For three small items! I also see the store is called "Love Space". So, I retrace our steps looking for the store but it's nowhere to be found. I look on Google Maps- no store called Love Space in Barcelona. I walk around for a while then give up and decide they must have closed for the night. If you've been to Barcelona, you will be familiar with the hundreds (if not thousands) of little ground-level stores with metal shutters that cover the whole store front at night. When shuttered, these stores are nearly indistinguishable, especially in the dark and when you're not from the area.

The next day I go back to search for this store. After a couple hours with no luck, I go into an open adult store in the area and ask the guy working if he knows of a store in the area called Love Space. He asks why and I explain what happened the night before. He then tells me I'm the fourth man, all tourists from North America, in the past few weeks that has asked about an adult store in the area, claiming he went with a girl on a date and then the store disappeared and he couldn't return what he bought. At this moment, I clued it that I may have been scammed. 

"Ukrainian girl?" He asked. I confirm, and he Google searched "Love Space Ukraine" on his phone. Up comes a real adult store called Love Space that exists only in Kyiv, Ukraine! This cannot simply be a coincidence. I determine I must have been the victim of a clever dating scam. 

Once the payment processed on my credit card, I was able to use the transaction data to find the city block of where it was (08012 Barcelona, the backstreets near Indian Herbs on Carrer De Còrsega). I go back AGAIN to search the area. This store does NOT exist in Barcelona. I further confirm these was all a scam.

I tried messaging the girl on WhatsApp. She basically tells me to go fuck my self and that I have to pay up to get pretty girls like her. I think she blocked me after or is just ignoring my replies. I messaged the real Love Space store in Ukraine, using Google Translate, but they insisted they only operate in Ukraine and have no idea what I'm talking about.

So, this is how the scam goes: Girl meets tourist on dating app and goes for drinks. She gets him at least a bit drunk then suggests going back to her place to hook up, but first she wants to get some adult toys. She brings him to her friend/family's fake store in the area, where she pressures him to buy greatly overpriced sex toys. After leaving she ditches the guy and the store disappears, leaving the guy confused and with no way to return the items. 

I went to the police but they refused to even let me file a report. They claim this is a "consumer issue" since nothing was stolen. From what I've read, the Barcelona police also like to surpress the reality of how much crime goes on there. In my mind this is obvious fraud or some similar type of crime. The police officer I spoke to said that since I paid and got the items there was no crime. I can sort of see her point, but was ignoring the context of this transaction occurring in what was clearly a scam operation.

I will try to get my credit card company to reverse the transaction but I doubt they will since I entered my PIN. I doubt they'll care that the guy set it up for PIN entry without showing me the amount first. I guess that's on me for not checking first. 

I feel like a complete sucker. And while I despise these scumbags I have to respect their creativity and acting skills. What a clever scam/con. If I can't get the transaction reversed I guess I'll take this as a life lesson. Someone also told me I got off lucky - and I agree. I could have been robbed of my phone/credit card, attacked, kidnapped, or worse. I also could have lost a lot more money.

I hope this helps other men avoid falling into this trap. Do not go on a date with a Ukrainian girl in Barcelona named Victoria! And don't agree to go with her to an adult store if you do ... Be careful with dating ... and honestly, maybe just avoid meeting strangers from the internet.

If anyone has advice on anything I might be able to do about this I'd appreciate it.