SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Car torched in Antwerp in suspected antisemitic attack, says Belgian official
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/world/car-torched-in-antwerp-in-suspected-antisemitic-attack-says-belgian-official/2887530/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Lili Bayer
BRUSSELS, March 24 (Reuters) – The torching of a car overnight in Antwerp, for which two minors were arrested, is being treated as a suspected antisemitic attack, a Belgian official said on Tuesday.
European countries including Belgium, the Netherlands and Britain have witnessed incidents targeting the Jewish community since the United States and Israel launched their war on Iran on February 28.
Belgium on Monday deployed soldiers on the streets of its biggest cities to bolster security at Jewish sites including synagogues and schools.
Show Full Article
A spokesperson for the Antwerp prosecutor said an investigation was under way, and that the two suspects had been arrested shortly before midnight on Monday, moments after the attack.
They said a video circulating on social media that purportedly showed the arson attack appeared authentic and was part of the investigation. Reuters did not independently verify the video.
Over the past two weeks, synagogues have been attacked in Liege, Belgium, and in the Dutch city of Rotterdam, as well as a Jewish school in Amsterdam. In Britain, counter-terrorism officers are leading an investigation into an attack on Jewish community ambulances.
“There must be a thorough investigation and decisive action to put an end to this climate of intimidation before it spirals further,” Israel’s ambassador to Belgium, Idit Rosenzweig-Abu, said on X.
The SITE Intelligence website said an Iran-aligned multinational militant collective called Islamic Movement of the People of the Right Hand had claimed responsibility for the attack near a synagogue in Golders Green, London.
It said the group had been behind the fires in Liege, Rotterdam and Amsterdam.
Mark Rowley, London’s police chief, said the claim was one of the lines of inquiry being pursued.
(Reporting by Lili Bayer and Inti Landauro; editing by Richard Lough and Kevin Liffey)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.