SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: BJP’s Bengal CM will be non-vegetarian, declares Union minister Sukanta after Mamata’s meat ban claim
AUTHOR: Neelam Pandey
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/politics/bjps-bengal-cm-will-be-non-vegetarian-declares-union-minister-sukanta-after-mamatas-meat-ban-claim/2893218/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
West Bengal’s next chief minister from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be a “non-vegetarian” when it comes to food habits, Union Minister Sukanta Majumdar said Tuesday.
His remarks came a day after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, while campaigning against the BJP, said that the party would ban fish, meat, and even eggs if it came to power in the state.
“Look, Mamata Banerjee is making such petty remarks because she believes she is going to lose the upcoming elections. This is being done out of fear and frustration. Most people in Bengal eat non-vegetarian food, and even the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party consumes non-vegetarian food; even today, we ate non-veg food,” said Majumdar.
Show Full Article
“In the future as well, whoever becomes the chief minister from the Bharatiya Janata Party is going to be someone who eats non-vegetarian food. So if the chief minister himself is a non-vegetarian, how can he/she impose a ban on it?” Majumdar questioned.
The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has been highlighting in its election campaign that the BJP, if voted to power, would start imposing restrictions on Bengalis’ non-vegetarian food habits. The TMC’s allegations have been given credence by the BJP’s crackdowns on non-vegetarian food habits in many other northern states, especially during festivals.
For instance, last month, Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Vijay Kumar Sinha announced a prohibition on the open sale of meat and fish near educational institutes, religious places, and crowded public areas to “promote social harmony, maintain hygiene and prevent violent tendencies among children”. His remarks sparked widespread criticism and discussion.
With elections in West Bengal set to take place in two phases, starting from 23 April, many BJP candidates and leaders in the state have resorted to carrying a fish in their hands while going door-to-door and canvassing in the constituency. The move aims to counter the TMC and address the debate on food habits.
Videos of Bidhannagar BJP candidate Dr Sharadwat Mukhopadhyay canvassing while holding a fish have gone viral of late.
Rebutting Banerjee’s claim that fish is not eaten in BJP-ruled states, Tripura Chief Minister Manik Saha said Tripura is the highest fish-eater in the country. He accused Banerjee of misleading the people.
Addressing a rally in Manbazar in Purulia district Sunday, Banerjee accused the BJP of interfering with people’s food habits. The CM said the BJP coming to power in the state would lead to restrictions on people’s consumption of fish, eggs, or meat.
(Edited by Madhurita Goswami)
Also Read:
Why BJP old-timers in Cooch Behar aren’t happy with high-command’s man Pramanik, moved to safer seat