SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: It seems so legit, could it really be a scam?
DATE: 2022-05-29
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/uzzzyd/it_seems_so_legit_could_it_really_be_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I've been offered a job with a company called Advantmed LLC. They have quite an extensive online presence, but it's all fairly recent. Glassdoor reviews, indeed reviews, reviews from other websites, etc.

The position they hired me for is a Medical Documents Technician. The job description I received is this (sorry for the wall of text): 

Job Responsibilities
This is a great "foot-in-the-door" position for those looking to be involved in the emerging Healthcare &amp;
Technology industry.
Travel to various medical facilities and hospitals assigned by the company's scheduling team to scan
patient medical records. Technicians will use a company laptop and portable scanner to retrieve
sections of medical records, which they will have to upload to Advantmed’s database.
This position is seasonal and part to full time, with the possibility of extension based on project needs.
 Follow all confidentiality guidelines, rules and procedures
 Initiate quality service to ensure accuracy of filing and chart availability
 Interact with the medical staff, healthcare providers and other medical personnel regarding
update of medical records
 Maintain patients’ information in computer relating to identification number, medical record
number, appointment data and chart location
 Ensure compliance with internal policies &amp; procedures prior to processing requests
Duties and responsibilities
 Maintain record system for patient information and gathering documents from the medical
facility
 Ensuring that the medical records are organized, accurate and complete
 Creating digital copies of paperwork and storing the records electronically
 Filing the paperwork and reports quickly and accurately
 Safeguarding patient records and ensuring that everyone complies with the HIPAA standards
 Use an electronic system to properly collect, organize and manage data
 Transferring data from the facility’s main system database to flash drive
 Ensure chart availability for patients seen at multiple locations
Pay Rate:
$20 Per Hour.
Technicians are being paid bi-weekly based on the total hours spent working or total records one has
retrieved during the period – whichever is higher. Technicians also are get paid for the mileage – round
trips.
Technician will also reimbursed for the expenses such as parking fees &amp; toll tickets by submitting the
receipts to Advantmed.
 When traveling for business purpose, Technician will be paid allowance of $20 a day for food
 This is when you are driving/flying to another City/State and night stay is involved
 Advantmed will take care of all the bookings – Flight + Hotel + Rental (if required)
Qualifications:
 Must have a valid driver’s license
 Must have a car and active insurance under your name
 Clean motor vehicle record
 Must have internet access at home
 Must be willing to drive to at least 80 miles one way
 Must have basic PC skills and familiarity with office equipment usage such as scanners and flash
drives. Knowledge of file copying, sharing and transfer is required
 Must have intermediate knowledge of medical chart structure, content and medical
terminologies
 Registration of Car: (Candidates need to provide a Car Registration document)
COVID 19 Vaccination Requirement

Pursuant to COVID-19 Vaccination mandate all employees; on-site contractors must be fully vaccinated
against COVID-19. As a condition of employment, the successful candidate will be required to provide
proof of their COVID-19 Vaccination as part of the hiring process.
Work Remotely
 No

So several weird thing have happened. They say they're CA based but everyone I've spoken with has an Indian accent. Not a dealbreaker. They wanted my direct deposit info prior to a job offer, so I went to my bank to discuss the situation and possibly open a new account specifically for this. Bad idea. Bank wants nothing to do with me anymore and will be closing my account as soon as my next deposit hits. 

I spoke with the company and they said to go back to the bank and they can offer/provide any documentation the bank's fraud department might need to help prove their legitimacy. Literally anything. Fraud even said "Yeahhh well maybe if you issue his first check as a paper check..." and the Advantmed said sure that will be fine they will mail me a check it may just take longer now than it would have before. I told them to go ahead and send me the paper check because I will no longer be dealing with this bank.

So, now, my first day of training is Monday and I still am not entirely sure what to think about this. On one hand, the company has literally offered to do whatever they can to prove they're real. On the other, this is all moving so fast and other small things.

Worse comes to worst, I sit through an 8 hour training on Monday and just waste time. But since I wouldn't get paid until the 25th I believe, I'll be doing plenty of driving and wasting gas before I can get reimnursed for that all. What do I do here?