After remaining a loyal customer of Honda for more than 15 years, I was in for a rude shock this time. Now I shall advice NEVER to buy a Honda car in India specially from Samara Honda. They offer you Honda Insurance too, just to make a fool of you and earn money out of you. I sent my 11 yrs old Honda City Car, driven less than 35K KMs, kept like a baby, to them in Mayapuri for service. The reason: The car was working perfectly fine and hardly driven since previous service but a lady named Heena would call every second day and insist that the time has lapsed and I must get servicing done. She bombards me with the same messages too, Finally, I relent. Service guy Dinesh calls and says that your cars chamber got a hit (Quite possibly, because Honda City is a very low car and prone to hits from even speed brakers) and has been repaired from outside and you have been notified three services earlier. Amazing. No one informed me, otherwise I would have asked them to repair it there and then and bill the insurer to whom we have paid lacs in the last 10 -11 yrs. I never sent my vehicle anywhere for such a repair. So I ask them what repair? Some one put M-seal. But I did not. No no, it was written on the invoice that was sent to you. Believe me you will have to strain your eyes to find where it is written. Moreover, imagine, service guy informs me, your car’s chamber is cracked and I tell him send me the car after service without repairing/changing chamber to me and then I take the car out to some mechanic and get M-seal on it… ??? I check the bill and pay it and file the invoice only, because I have blind faith on Honda, after all I am a loyal customer for 15 yrs plus. It doesn’t matter they say. Now the Honda insurance says it will not cover as the car has been repaired from outside. Repaired? Did the chamber got welding on it? Putting M-seal, that too not by me, is a kind of repair where insurance would not cover the Chamber Damage? Unbelievable. Ultimate harassment and trade malpractice. The car is sent back to me on 20th July 23 after service and immediately the all-good car, showed signs of Engine oil leakage from the chamber, meaning, they removed the M Seal so that the engine oil leaks and I get stranded and then pay them and get it repaired. Look at the strategy. Stright forward arm twisting. Just awesome. Then they call me for my feedback after service, just to gather brownie points. I give none. I call Heena again on 01st August tell her oil is leaking, she says I will get vehicle picked tomorrow between 11am 12 noon. I call her again at 12 noon on 2nd August asking why the vehicle was not picked-up. Now she comes out with the real answer. IT WILL BE A PAID REPAIR SIR. Why was I not told this before in the morning? No answers. The GM Pankaj Tyagi, disconnects the phone as I call him. After a while I call him again, he picked this time only to do almost nothing about it. Then one Mandeep calls and I have to do all the explaining again. Now Mandeep says car will be picked up but non-committal on anything else. A few calls later, now the guy is on the way at 2 pm to pick the car. Just pathetic. Car finally picked up at 2.30pm. Next Mandeep calls to say, send insurance policy and I comply. Then at around 4pm she calls to say what they had been maintaining all this while. YOU NEED TO PAY, NO YOUR INSURANCE WILL NOT COVER. End of the Game? No. Now she tells me the part to be changed, the chamber, is not with them and they will take 3 days to give the vehicle back. So the ordeal doesn’t end here. Wait is on….. This was uploaded on Honda website in complaint section on[protected], but no response in 24 hours. That’s their commitment to their customers. Awesome. Finally, vehicle delivered on 4th at 5.45 pm… had to pay 10K plus. Commitment by Mandeep that ok we shall give discount on labour charges, not met. I, for one, shall never buy or trust Honda blindly anymore in my life. Dr Kapil K Raina Advisor, OPMD-Hub, LHMC, MoH & FW, Govt of India. Member, MHDC and Dentistry Sectional Committee, Bureau of Indian Standards, Govt of India. Director, Apollo Dental, New Delhi Director, Dr Raina’s Dental Care & Implants, New Delhi Head Coordination (INDIA), International SLP, Dental School, University of Florida, USA Secretary General, Delhi Kolkata Dental Forum Vice President, IDA West Delhi Branch Formerly: Honorary Dental Specialist to the Governor of AP Specialist Consultant, SSB, Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt of India Specialist Consultant, ITBP, Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt of India