SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: An event which generated a revenue of Rs 700 cr part 2
DATE: 2024-11-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1gqzun9/an_event_which_generated_a_revenue_of_rs_700_cr/

--- POST TEXT ---

A lot of you have messaged me saying you were eagerly looking forward to part 2, so here it is.

If you haven't read part 1 yet, please do so before reading this post further.

https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/s/DLu8pgxmnV

The Formula E Hyderabad E prix was conducted on February 11, 2023. There was an agreement between the then Telangana government, promoter Greenko and FIA(governing body of Formula E) for a period of 4 years. 

Later, the promoter Greenko backed out due to financial constraints. After a few months, FIA sent an email to the Telangana government stating that they would not be hosting a race in Hyderabad the following year which is 2024 because the promoter had backed off and the government could not find another promoter. Once KTR got to know this, he arranged a video conference with the FIA and assured that the money would transferred to them from the government before they find a new promoter. KTR instructed Aravind Kumar IAS, the then HMDA commissioner to transfer Rs. 55 cr directly and that they could retrieve the money from the new promoter once they find them. 

A GO was released on November 14, 2023 stating that HMDA was completely aware of the race which was supposed to be held in February 2024. HMDA is an independent board with the Chief Minister as the chairman and Municipal Administration Minister as vice-chairman. It does not require cabinet approval to release funds. 

KTR admitted that it was him who ordered the release of RS. 55 cr from HMDA to FIA. This was done to sustain the Formula E race after the promoter had backed out. 

All this was said by KTR in a press conference last week. Here is the link if your interested in watching the entire press meet:

https://youtu.be/m5NjsZC5oo4?si=pyrD9ZNH9d1xpq29

In December 2023, the BRS lost the state assembly election and the Congress party formed the new government. The new Congress government headed by Revanth Reddy decided to cancel the event which was supposed to be held in February 2024. 

Here is where the controversy begins. In the first week of November 2024, the department of Municipal administration(which is under Chief Minister Revanth Reddy and has not been alloted to anyone else) made allegations of "corruption" by the previous regime in sending Rs 55 cr to foreign accounts. 
The Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) Secretary, Dana Kishore, sent a letter to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) requesting an investigation into alleged violations related to the Formula E car racing event.

Apparently, Revanth Reddy is trying to see if he can get KTR booked under the Prevention of money laundering(PMLA) act.

KTR had admitted that he transferred Rs 55 cr directly from HMDA to sustain the Formula E race as the promoter had backed out due to financial constraints. He instructed the then HMDA commissioner Aravind Kumar to transfer the money.There is no question of any kind of money laundering here. 

Last year's race generated a revenue of Rs 700 cr and this year's would have too had it not been canceled by Revanth Reddy. 

Revanth Reddy is now in talks with the governor in trying too book KTR under PMLA act. For an MLA to be booked under PMLA act, the governor's permission is mandatory. 

If he does end up booking KTR under PMLA, he would also have to book the Formula E organization for receiving that money. If Revanth does end up booking cases, it would mean that such organizations would never end up coming back to India again. It would bring international shame not only to Hyderabad or Telangana, but to entire India. 

The only reason he is doing all this is to get revenge. It is pure political vendetta. 
In 2015, Revanth Reddy who was a TDP MLA then, was caught on videotape offering a bribe of Rs 50 lakh to a nominated MLA, Elvis Stephenson for his vote in the MLC elections. Revanth was arrested and later released on bail. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/2015_cash-for-votes_scam

https://youtu.be/dEDPU4opcws?si=gGDQMj60FCzLsAVX

Revanth Reddy was sent to jail by the previous BRS government for bribing another MLA. So now he wants to seek revenge by putting KTR in jail. He previously tried making allegations in the "phone tapping" case but didn't end up going ahead with it due to lack of evidence. 

As we have seen from the comments of Prime Minister Modi, Union Ministers Nitin Gadkari and Kishan Reddy and Maharashtra CM Eknath Shinde that such events boost tourism, generate revenue and attract investments. 

Revanth could have continued the race this year and generated a revenue of Rs700 cr again. But he choose to engage in revenge politics. He is ruining projects which generate revenue for his own sadistic pleasure.

In other states, when a government changes, the new government continues the development activities and infrastructure projects. But in Telugu states, it is revenge politics all the way.