SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: I've been Honeytrapped, and getting blackmailed
DATE: 2025-02-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ivb8cg/ive_been_honeytrapped_and_getting_blackmailed/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had sex with a prostitute on 1st jan 2024. She gave me her number and we remained in touch on WhatsApp. On 21st jan, we went on a trip together. After that, she started forcing a relationship with me that she loves me and will die if I don't be with her. After a lot of resistance, I was scared and agreed to talk. I said I can't talk to you while you sleep around with other men, she cried and said will leave this work. She left and showed me she was turning her life around.

We got in a relationship, and would have sex regularly in hotel rooms. Initially I would give her some money like 10k or 15k to manage her expenses. She took it happily and showed how much she loved me. It went for a month, and she started gaining information about me, my family, my work, my income and all. In March, she emotionally manipulated me on how much money I can give to her. I said enough to buy a car. She then started asking for it repeatedly. I was naive and didn't listen to my mind. I atarted giving her the money. I had cryptocurrency which I sold by p2p transaction and got the money settled to her account directly. It was close to 13.5 Lakh INR after a lot of manipulation and crying. After that, she forced me give her 5 more lakhs in cash, which I also arranged a gave it to her. That night, she in a hotel room confessed to me, that she doesn't love or care about me and it was all about money. A sobbing backstory on how she is poor and can't afford house for her family. She said that now she is in love with me and want to wipe the slate clean and start new. I obviously came to senses and started my own story to recover some momey. In August, I convinced her to return 2.5 Lakh in cash and took it that it's the last amount I will get. I started distancing myself and slowly breaking up. In spetember, I finally blocked her from all the places and decided to move on and take this as a lesson.

She used to call me but her calls were blocked and I didn't bother to pick up. 3 months went by, and in December she started calling from random stranger's number to talk to me. I didn't respond Initially, then I asked return my money and I will talk to you. She again started the manipulation, said take everything as I only want you and nothing else. I knew so was persistent on taking money first and then talk anything else. After a lot of dodging and excuses, she sent me 15k in January 10. After which I asked for 1Lakh for my college fee. She then started asking for time like 10 days and 5 days again. I knew this is not going anywhere, so I blocked her after abusing her. Now she sent me money next day on 15 feb the amount of 80K INR. I didn't unblock or respond to any unknown number she might be calling from.

She then filed a cybercrime complaint in my name and put a lien on my bank account for the 80k transaction. She has somehow obtained my father's aadhar details from my phone number and threaten to go to the address and talk with them. She have also threatened to destroy my life and career if I do not continue talking with her.
I am scared, but didn't continue this chat and again blocked her after this threat. I am 20 and do not want my family invloved in this. 

I do not have any idea on whom to consult and how to move forward with this. I am in Bhopal if it helps in suggestions.