SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Got scammed .. don’t know what to do
DATE: 2023-11-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/17nfhu9/got_scammed_dont_know_what_to_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I buy a lot of clothes from instagram thrift stores, and there was this one store that posted a story saying a dress is available as the girl who bought it is selling it again due to some size issue and to contact the girl. 

I dmed her and decided to buy the dress. This is the part where i fucked up.. I paid her the full amount before she shipped it, cuz i was used to doing this while buying from instagram stores. she told me that she’ll ship it to me in 2-3 days. 

a few days later she told me that the post office is closed because of dussehra and other holidays and will open a few days later, and she’ll ship it then. 

she didnt reply to my texts after that. nor did i get any sms from india post or any other delivery service. i called her on the number i made the payment to, and she picked up, and said she made her friend ship it for her and that she’ll send me the shipping info asap. 
i felt a bit relieved but then she hasnt replied to my texts since then, and whenever i call her it says her phone is switched off
my whatsapp messages are not getting delivered 
she’s deactivated her instagram account as well. 
it’s been 5 days since she picked up my call that one time. 

the thing is i made my friends call that number but even for them it was saying it’s switched off. so idk what happened 

but it’s been almost a month and i paid a good amount of money.. 

the information i have about her:
full name (from her ig username)
college (ig bio)
phone number (the no i sent the money to)
her email (through her linkedin)
dob (found on google in a link from her college website)
shipping address (the store she bought from shared it with me bcz i told them how she scammed me)

should i file a complaint to the cyber crime cell? will that do anything? is there anything else i should do?