SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need Advice: Victim of Fraud and Theft by a Local Courier Service
DATE: 2023-07-08
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/14tyqyg/need_advice_victim_of_fraud_and_theft_by_a_local/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am currently in a situation that has left me feeling betrayed and helpless, and I am in desperate need of advice on the course of action I should take.

 
On June 4th, 2023, I entrusted my personal belongings, including some valuable electronic items, to a local courier service, FlyShipex Courier Services, owned by a man named Ramchandra Shukla. These items were packed into four boxes, weighing a total of 99kg (actual weight) and 135kg (dimensional weight).

 
Despite my several requests, Mr. Shukla did not provide me with photos of the packed goods and the receipt he sent me mentioned only one box, instead of four. Also, the declared value of the goods was listed as a mere INR 4000, significantly lower than the actual value which is in the lakhs. Trusting his word, I made a payment of INR 7000 for the courier service.

 
When I checked on the status of my delivery on June 12th, he vaguely told me that my items were "in transit". When I received the boxes on June 14th, I found that the box containing my most valuable items (a Traktor DJ Controller S2, Playstation 4, and a variety of clothes) was missing. I immediately notified Mr. Shukla about this discrepancy, to which he assured me he would look into the matter. However, even by July 8th, there has been no trace of my missing box.

 
I have repeatedly asked Mr. Shukla to provide all related documents regarding the transit but he has failed to comply with my requests, furthering my suspicion of his fraudulent actions. 
I am considering lodging an FIR against him for theft and fraud, but I'm uncertain about the procedure, potential outcomes, and other considerations.

Has anyone here been in a similar situation or have any advice for me? I am distraught and unsure how to proceed, and any input would be greatly appreciated.