SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Just experienced a Scam I havent seen for about 15 years... The Ol' Facebook Masturbation Blacmail Scheme
DATE: 2021-07-04
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/oda21v/just_experienced_a_scam_i_havent_seen_for_about/

--- POST TEXT ---

I apologize if this has been posted about before, but I couldn't help but bring it up since it randomly occurred to me once when I was a teenager, and literally just now as a much older man. Well basically it is a blackmail scheme. The person uses a spoofed webcam or video of a very attractive woman who claims to be wanting to "have fun" show off her body blah blah. All that silly stuff to try and entice you. When I was a teenager, like 18-19, Hell yeah I fell for that ! I was like wowwwww enthralled by this "girl" who was giving me compliments and all that stuff. She insisted that we do it through FACEBOOK MESSENGER. The reason for doing so, is because they can use an automated program to access all your friends list (I know you can change privacy settings somehow now, and I think I have, but back then you couldn't). Anyways without sharing TMI, she ("he")-- a guy from India I believe-- took some screenshots and video of me and then a long message with ALL people with my same last name came out and it said: 

"DO YOU REALLY WANT JOHN SMITH TO SEE THIS BEHAVIOR" ANTHNONY SMITH KRYSTAL SMITH" etc. etc.

I was actually rather scared as a teenager, but the person wanted like $2400, so i was like wtf I cant even afford this I would have to ask them for money to pass off this jackass. My response was basically, "fuck off dude they have all already seen me jerking it at one point or another, our house has no locks on its doors" LOL, like i am laughing about it now, but i really do feel sympathy for others who have fallen victim to this.

Fast forward to now: I get a request on messenger, really something that I never use, nor facebook, and its from a girl who claims to be from france who had like 3 mutual friends with me (they all probably accepted blindly) and the profile looked to be fake as hell but I hadn't gotten aroudn to removing it. Anyways, they message me and say they are half naked about to get in the shower and wanted to show me something. I'm laughing in the back of my head waiting to see if its an onlyfanslink, a cam site link, a premium snapchat, a "meet up w/ booking fee", I literally have seen it all now that I am as an adult. Well, nope it was the let me try and entice him into getting naked and blackmailing him.

Well, it literally failed within 12 seconds as i started laughing. The profile picture and girl in video were like two ENTIRELY differnet people . A blonde vs. a brunette asian. The amount of effort was so minimal..... 

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

TLDR: Don't ever accept stranger invites on facebook, instagram, or any platform where other private information can be disclosed. Not even if you have mutual friends/followers; and never ever pay them. Because if you did, then they would just demand more later.