I was looking for work from home jobs on various job portals online. After few days i was been called/texted on Whatsapp for a job interview on 2nd February at this address C-54 Sector-2 Noida-201301 with the company name Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd. My father took me at this address as my husband went to his office. When i reached at the address there were about 10-15 people present at the premises. After waiting for two hours my turn came for the interview. The interview was taken by a lady with the name Ms. Asha (not sure whether her name was real or not). She offered me a work from home job for which she asked me to pay Rs 3000 by saying that this is the last vacancy available for the job. I called up my husband and told him about the matter. After doing a little bit of Googling on the internet he paid up the amount of Rs 3000 via UPI mode(photo attached). After receiving the amount by her, she gave me a reference letter and a receipt of the payment (photos attached). I was been told earlier that my joining would be done within 10-15 working days but after few days i got message on my WhatsApp that joining of the job would be done in the month of March. I asked them to give me the joining as early as possible since i want to start the work from home job immediately. After requesting them (Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd) few times, i was been given the joining date of 25th February at the following Address: Company:Cogent E-Services Pvt. Ltd. C 121, C Block, Sector 63, Noida. Contact Person: Manoj Nagpal Sir. Reference: Rohan Sir. I reached on the above mentioned address on 25th February with my husband and went inside the premises to meet the contact person Mr Manoj Nagpal as was told to me by Ms. Asha of Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd C-54 Sector-2 Noida-201301. I was shocked to hear that Mr Manoj Nagpal said that their company Cogent E-Services Pvt. Ltd. has no link with Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd. He also said that i should have never paid the amount for this particular job as they are already hiring and have arranged walk-in interviews which is free of cost. My mood got upset after hearing these words from him but still I showed him the reference letter which was given to me by Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd. for the joining but i got more surprised when I was been told that i still have to appear in 3 rounds of interview to get the job which was never a work from home job as Cogent E-Services Pvt. Ltd is hiring for their office premises only. I discussed the whole matter with my husband via phone call as he was not been allowed to enter the office premises. He was also shocked to hear the conversation done between me and Mr Manoj Nagpal. My husband advised me to give atleast 1 round of the interview before reaching to the Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd C-54 Sector-2 Noida-201301. After giving 1 round of the interview, i came out of the office premises and with my husband went to Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd C-54 Sector-2 Noida-201301. When we reached there, we were in a complete shock to see that there was an real estate based company's office at the same address. After doing general enquiry, we both came to know that the staff of Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd has already left from the address 2 weeks back and nobody is picking up the calls for any assistance. I have wasted my time of around 20 odd days from 2nd February to 25th February waiting for the joining of the job plus an additional amount of Rs 3000. I have been scammed and tortured mentally, financially and emotionally by this company Infotask Solution Pvt Ltd C-54 Sector-2 Noida-201301. I need full compensation of my paid amount with penalties charged on this company. Kindly do the needful. I have attached photos and a youtube video (https://youtu.be/f61BAYb-lv0) for better understanding of the matter. Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (12)