SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Broker scam in Bengaluru
DATE: 2024-01-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/193y1vy/broker_scam_in_bengaluru/

--- POST TEXT ---

Broker scam in Bengaluru

I recently was looking for houses in Bangalore and went to see a property in HSR Layout through an organisation called Rent Right Bangalore (you can look them up on Instagram, they post house listings there). I liked the house and gave a token amount of 10k (the rent was 21k and deposit was 70k). While signing the agreement earlier this week I noticed some clauses in the rent agreement that were very restrictive, however the broker from Rent Right told me it was standard. After some conversation with him, I signed the document. This was my fault. I shouldn’t have signed and paid the deposit and brokerage. When I came back I researched more and asked some friends who have rented houses here for their advice. Based on that, I asked the owner to cancel the agreement. While I know that’s not ideal after signing, I had long conversations with the broker and the owner about the restrictive clauses. I needed a more flexible agreement because of my work. The owner has agreed to return my full deposit. The broker, until yesterday evening was saying that they will have to deduct 10k from the brokerage (21k - one month’s rent) and refund the rest. That felt a bit exorbitant to me, even though he kept citing some Rent Right NDA document that I signed before seeing the house. He has not provided me the copy of that document. But by last evening he was saying I’d get back 11k at least, and it felt like I had some space for negotiating that as well. Since last evening, the Rent Right Bangalore broker has stopped picking my calls and replying to messages. Today he just replied after trying to call him for hours that the full amount will be kept and that the document I signed mandates that there will be no refund. He is also very non responsive and has not yet sent me the copy of document he keeps referring to. Do I have a case here. Surely he can’t keep the full 21k brokerage amount after the agreement is nullified. Please help me as it’s a big amount.