SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Groom's side cancelled marriage 2 days after the public engagement accepting that the groom has an affair
DATE: 2020-12-17
SCORE: 103
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/kexqck/grooms_side_cancelled_marriage_2_days_after_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am the brides' brother.

We found the groom on a popular matrimonial website. He works in a good MNC in Noida and earns a good salary. Both of us are from Uttar Pradesh.

My sister and he has been talking since \~6 months. My father visited his parents once which is in a village in UP. Then he visited us a month ago and then said he wishes to marry. My sister and he became good friends and both agreed to marry. They used to do a lot of video calls, planned for the future sometimes, and he showed my sister romantic gestures like sending cake and flowers home on her birthday.

We started planning the engagement (which was held recently) and the marriage in 2021. The grooms' family seemed to be very greedy and demanded us to bear the whole cost of both the occasions. They also demanded a big car and expected us to spend a lot. We knew that his parents are poor, although he earns a good salary himself, and he will have to spend money himself instead of his parents if we ask the grooms side to pay for anything.

Weirdly enough, he used to suggest my sister that she should spend her time at his village 
hometown in UP to take care of his parents instead of living in Noida with him. And he demanded a big SUV car which costs 15Lac atleast, but in hints, not directly. The only thing which he was really paying for is the engagement ring, on which also he cheaped out (55k) even though my sister told him that she doesnt likes that ring, and we have bought a much expensive ring for him.

Finally they got engaged, in the presence of families from both sides. Our family paid for every single thing in the engagement. And then we both went to different cities. Then he started avoiding our calls for 2 days. Then we got to know that, on the engagement day one of his college friends who came to attend the engagement told his mother that he HAS A GIRLFRIEND. 2 days later, his family told us that the groom doesnt wish to marry and the marriage is called off. He is saying that he didn't had the guts to tell his parents about his girlfriend and he was in pressure and he got engaged. Had his friend not informed his mother, he was planning to marry my sister, keep her at his hometown in the village in UP with her parents while he enjoys in the big SUV with his gf.

It came as a huge shock to my sister who was attached to him and was looking forward to the marriage.

I wish to know if there is anything that we can do about this? My sister and our whole family feels like the groom did fraud with us. He cheated, lied, mentally harassed us. The 'izzat' that we Indians associate us to so much amongst our relatives has become a mockery.