SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Cyber Blackmailing 
DATE: 2024-08-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1etjstx/cyber_blackmailing/

--- POST TEXT ---

I got this mail today morning, a blackmailing mail saying they'll leak my tape of which I'm sure there is no such video that this guy is claiming as I've never done that(never on cam atleast). The point is the number mentioned is my old number that I left 3 years back.
Then how did he got my mail? I'm suspecting on some platform on which i might have made account must have got compromised. Please take couple of minutes to read the mail content.
Also the email that sent me this is a Gmail account.
Need help with this what should I do? 

-----------------
Hey {You},

I know, 999-XXX-9999 is too personal to contact you.
Let me get straight to the point. You don't know me but I know you very well and you must be thinking why are you
gettingthis email, right?
I actually installed a Malware on porn website and you know what, you visited same porn website to have pleasure (you
know what I mean). When you were busy watchingvideo clips, your browser began functioningas a RDP (Remote
Protocol) that has a backdoor which provided me access to your device as well as your camera recordings. Right after that,
the software obtained all of your data and your complete contacts from device includingall of your photos.
Exactly what did I do?
It is just your hard luck that I am aware of your misadventures. After that I put in more time than I probably should've
exploringinto your life and created a split screen video. First part shows the video you had been viewingand other part
displays the video of your webcam (its you doinginappropriate things). Actually, I am willingto destroy details about
you and let you continue with your life. And I will provide you two options that may accomplish your freedom. Those
two choices are either to disregard this message (not recommended), or pay me a small amount to close this mattter
forever.
Exactly what can you do?
Let us investigate above 2 options in more depth. First Choice is to disregard my e-mail. Let's see what will happen if you
pick this option. I will definitely send your videotape to all your contacts includingfriends and family, colleagues, and so
on. It will not shield you from the humiliation your self will must face when relatives and buddies learn your unpleasant
sextape in their inbox. Wise choise is to pay me, and be confidential about it. We’ll name it my “confidentiality charges”.
Lets discuss what will happen when you select this option. Your little secret Will remain your secret. I will erase the
sextape. Once you send the payment, You can freely continue on with your life and family as if none of this ever
happened. You'll make the payment via Bitcoins.
Amount to be paid: USD 1950
My BTC Address: {BTC_Address}
(Here is QR code, scan it carefully)
Note: You have 12 hours to make the payment. (I have a unique pixel in this e mail, and now I know that you have read
this mail). The task to get bitcoins usually takes some efforts so don't wait. If I don't receive the Bitcoins, I will send your
video recordingto all of your contacts including members of your family, colleagues, and many others. nonetheless, if I do
get paid, I will erase the video immediately. If you want to have proof, reply with "yes!" and I will certainly send out
your video recordingto your 13 contacts everyday. It is a non-negotiable one time offer, thus please do not waste my
personal time and yours by replyingto this e mail. Well, my tracker is goingto be recordingthe actions you are taking
when you find yourself done readingthis email. Let me tell you If you google anythingsuspicious then I will have to send
out your sextape to your family members, colleagues before time ends.