Dear Sir/Madam I bought a Videocon LCD TV cum D2H which was put up on promotion offer at a store called NEXT at WonderMall, Thane. We actually wanted to buy just an LCD TV but teh Next salesman sold me this product and we also fell for it as the offer was good and the salesman assured us that Videocon was a serious player in this business which we very much doubted. After buying and paying for the product, it turned out that the service engineer called us for installation saying that we should get society permission for installing the dish on the terrace and when we did the same our society informed us that Videocon Dish cannot be installed as they did not have a multiple user facility like TataSky or Dish TV and they cannot allow each individual to install an independant dish. I was shocked to hear this as I had no idea that Videocon do not have this facility, I thought liek TataSky every company has the facility now and teh salesman did not think it was his job to inform me about this when I kept saying that common dish works for us. All he once said was that 'you will ahve to install the dish' which I thought was obvious since I was the first customer in that building. So in a state of obvious shock I called Next and a lady called Nivedita heard me out patiently and after consulting some seniors called me back saying she will ensure teh product is taken back and called us to the shop to select an alternate product of teh same value and also assured me of a 'good negotiation'. For almost 10 days I didnt find anyone at the doorstep to collect it and when I called again she apologised and said you anyway come and select a product and later we shall pick up the TV. After about conversing for a minute she suddenly handed over teh phone to the store manager Sailesh or Sashan, cant place the name who rudely said that exchange is not possible since they have activated the D2H! He cliamed that the salesman has informed me about individual dish installation and there was nothing further he could do about this. I was pondering for a week on the issue hoping someone would possibly call me regarding this but heard nothing from anyone. Finally I decieded to come here in the hope that someone here will quickly resolve my issue else I may have to throw the TV in the bin! PLEASE HELP TO NAIL NEXT!!! Kind Regards Jhankhana Desai [protected]