SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Not recieving my outstanding dues
DATE: 2024-12-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1h7xpxk/not_recieving_my_outstanding_dues/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone and this is my first time posting here. I'll be mentioning all the relevant information (according to me), and if there's anything I missed, feel free to ask. I'll cut to the chase. 

I had been freelancing in graphic designing for an IAS academy through a contact of my friend. My employment procedure was pretty informal as the person who had hired me was an old classmate from my school, however I did ask for a contract or agreement as I wanted it for my CV. They were extremely reassuring regarding the matter but when time came for me to recieve it, they were breadcrumbing me and only until my termination, had a recieved a proof that I worked with them. 

As per their agreement, they had a system of paying my salary on the 20th of each month (usually delayed by one or two days sometimes), a system where the employer said that I will recieve a raise of 3k on top of the base salary after the third month of work and another system of paying the previous month's work in the current month (e.g, June's salary would be paid on July, so on so forth). On the 20th October, they suddenly laid me off because according to them, they found a media agency that does my work for a cheaper rate. I had no qualms with that despite them firing me so suddenly with not prior notice, regardless, I asked them to pay me for the last month and current month's work as those were still due. The total amount for both the months is 20k (as October was my 4th month working with them and according to their system, it constitutes as "raise of 3k on top of the base salary after the third month"). They said it would be delayed as they recently had an overhaul of their team and management plus their sales were low that month due to Diwali and Durga Puja not attracting many students for their business. As my employer was a former classmate, I gave him the the benefit of the doubt and decided to patient despite very clearly communicating my distress regarding the delay. This is where it gets infuriating. He promised to pay the full amount before 31st of October, however that never came to be and made the same excuse I stated previously. Then again he promised on the 7th of November but that did not happen, then he said he'll pay me in two installments on 14th November and 28th November, which I was strongly opposed to the idea as that was not what we agreed to, however even that installment promise didn't come true. Then he told me he'll pay me on December, and when I asked him when exactly I'll be getting paid in December he told me he'll be paying on Christmas. I'm not buying into this bullshit as I am aware that this is the holiday season, he'll make up the same excuse he made previously about dwindling sales due to Christmas and an upcoming harvest festival in January which will make him "unavailable" even if I want to confront him face to face plus I have better things to do than to keep begging.

After thorough digging about this IAS academy to find dirt about them, it wasn't easy however it turns out that they have multiple instances of fraud cases against them regarding not giving back students their refunds despite asking for it within the refundable time period, cases of false advertising where they say they are bringing world renowned educators in their class for which they ask extra money on top of the amount students are already paying, and they end up calling some shitty assistant from a C - B grade government college. Since it's a family run business, the family members themselves have a lot of cases against them mostly money related and, lack of a better term, "dalal" work. So clearly they do not have a good reputation especially with money and if I was aware of this earlier, I would have avoided working with them from the start. 

Whether shady practices like theirs is common or not with most IAS academies in India, I don't know neither is that my concern. I'm not asking this money out of desperation due to lack of personal funds, I'm asking this money due to my principles as that money is something I deserve to recieve no matter how small the amount may be. I am going to my state's Labour Commission to file a complaint against them and I'm willing to go nuclear and definitely take this matter to court if they disagree with the claims of the legal notice. 

So I request the lawyers, posters and lurkers of this subreddit, what and how should I prepare/ keep as evidence or proof for my matter. What and how should I direct my claims to the Labour Commission? Any advice would be appreciated, hell even playing devils advocate (lol) on this matter would be appreciated as that will help me prepare what I'll need as evidence. Anyone who's gone through something similar, please tell me you experience and how you navigated that. I'm am willing to answer any question people may have on this matter in detail if needed (except reveal names as I believe that would backfire at me in case things go legal).

I'm sorry this post looks more like a rant rather than a request because unfortunately I've been begging for my well deserved earnings from terrible people which has left me quite frustrated. I'll keep you guys posted in case anything happens. Thank you!