SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Sukhbir Badal slams Raja Warring over sacrilege issue, promises MSP on milk
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/sukhbir-badal-slams-raja-warring-over-sacrilege-issue-promises-msp-on-milk/2895560/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Baba Bakala (Punjab), Apr 2 (PTI) Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday criticised Punjab Congress chief Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, accusing him of indulging in “cheap theatrics” on the sensitive issue of sacrilege.
Addressing a rally under the party’s ‘Punjab Bachao’ campaign, Badal questioned why the Congress government failed to arrest those responsible for sacrilege incidents during its tenure from 2017 to 2022.
He alleged that the Congress had politicised the issue.
Show Full Article
Badal also asked Warring why he never raised the issue of the attack on Sri Darbar Sahib during the tenure of former prime minister Indira Gandhi, calling it the “biggest sacrilege” against the Sikh community.
He claimed that incidents of sacrilege started increasing after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) entered Punjab in 2014. He also referred to a 2016 Malerkotla case involving AAP MLA Naresh Yadav.
Targeting Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, Badal accused him of discouraging youth from taking up animal husbandry ventures.
He said such schemes were necessary to promote employment and growth, and alleged that the chief minister was making “irresponsible statements”.
Outlining his party’s plans, Badal announced that a future SAD government would provide minimum support price (MSP) on milk to protect dairy farmers.
He said a world skill university would be set up with centres in every district to train youth as per industry needs.
He also promised that all streets and drains would be concretised in a phased manner, covering 2,500 villages every year.
He added that joint land holdings would be divided free of cost and ownership rights would be given to people living within ‘lal dora’ areas.
Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia alleged that the chief minister should take responsibility for the suicide of a warehousing officer and a “fake encounter” of a youth.
He also accused the government of corruption in Milkfed. PTI VSD KSS KSS
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.