SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: My mother has auditory hallucinations and it has become worse and she won't consult a psychiatrist because she says she is not Mad.
DATE: 2022-07-19
SCORE: 41
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/w2lpmq/my_mother_has_auditory_hallucinations_and_it_has/

--- POST TEXT ---

Backstory: My mother (52) is a very hardworking woman. She's a house wife and does all the work by herself. Cooking, cleaning, washing clothes, doing dishes and most time consuming taking care of my sister (bed ridden with cerebral palsy). She always had a sleeping problem due to my sister waking her up in the middle of night almost everyday for water or anything else. She always slept less than required.

Since the past one year she is suffering from auditory hallucinations and it's getting worse. First we found that she is talking to herself, when asked about this she used to say that she tells god her problems and also just thinks aloud. We thought it was not a serious situation and ignored it. But it got worse she started hearing voices in her ears of some relatives but she didn't tell us. Sometimes it looked like she is arguing with someone and shouting at them in low voice (like in whispering voice).

We( me and papa) asked what happened but she would brush us off. My father, being not educated much about mental illnesses, would often scold my mother for talking to herself which led to their fights and she would suffer even more.

Since past few months she is having \*intense\* auditory hallucinations on and off about our aunt ( my father's one of sister) whom she thinks is evil and done something bad (cheating and an abortion I am not sure) and got caught and blaming her and harassing her, which is completely not true. And also about my Uncle (fathers big brother) that he has done something illegal at work and as my father and him work in the same industry the police (CBI) is always questioning in her in her ears. I often hear her shout and cry the words "shut up". And also that my other uncle's ex-wife is also harassing and threatening her. Sometimes I would ask her very seriously that what is up with her (when she would randomly message my father's clients and thinking she's under CBI enquiry or what, which my father dismissed thinking it is my sister's silliness but only I knew the real reason), why is she behaving like this, talking to herself and doing all this. To which told me the CBI story, me being a big dumbfuck, ignored and laughed at her thinking she is cooking up baseless lies to cover up something she doesn't want to tell me. Yes I am fking stupid.

But this week she confronted my grand father (yes, joint family) about this asking him to ask his daughter to stop harassing her and the full story aforementioned. My grandfather thought she's talking rubbish and they started fighting and after which I explained him about the situation and calmed down ( his wife, my grandma also suffered similar symptoms so he understood). My father is ignoring all this and thinks she'll be okay with time and idk what to do.

Today morning we found her crying (real crying heavily) because she wanted all this harassing to stop and I couldn't do anything but to watch her and console her. Nowadays she usually doesn't sleep much and is annoyed whenever my father or anyone enters the kitchen or tries to talk to her about anything.

Google says she has psychosis, symptoms being auditory hallucinations (someone talking in her ears and harassing her). But she won't go to the doctor believing that psychiatrist are for mad people and people who go there become more mad. She won't listen to anyone about this. It's all fking my fault, me being addicted to social media all day and not noticing and doing anyting about this. I (19) don't earn so it is not possible for me take her to and expensive doc and also she wont come and my father also doesn't believe in it. I don't know that to do please advice what to do now? Should I consult a psychiatrist online alone or what should I do to help her please suggest.