SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Cyber police freezes bank account, Interesting case  
DATE: 2024-05-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1d0gk2w/cyber_police_freezes_bank_account_interesting_case/

--- POST TEXT ---

Good Day, I am Indian citizen and I live in Australia, 4 Months ago I Have sent some money back home to my brother in USDT from Coinspot a legit Australian crypto trade site, SO my dumb fuck brother send this usdt to his friend because his 7 bank accounts were blocked previously. So now his dumb friend sold all those USDT to someone without even checking his name, he got 1 lakh and he transferred it to me, I got this money in my one personal account and I have sent to another account of me. they freeze this guys account who sent me money about 3 months ago and he did not give a fuck about it cause he has no money, ,,,,, 2 weeks ago they freeze my bank account got freeze by Maysore city police station. I spoke to police officer he asked me to send some document, I have sent him no response since then. So today I did investigation on my level, this scammer bought this 1100USDT from my friend which is my money and transfer him money with a different bank account name MOHAN LAL(Another dumb fuck), So at the same time while my friend selling him crypto this scammer with his different finance account speaking to Mohan Lal and selling him crypto god knows 50rs per USDT or so and make him pay in my friends bank account so my friend release crypto and scammer showed middle finger to Mr Mohan all. Mr Mohan lal report to cyber crime and expecting me to cover his shit now. Any suggestion please,

1.When I go to police should I say that I have done some work for my friend and he had to pay for my work so money is mine,

3. Speak to Mohan all and offer him some money to take the case back.

4. Tell the police this fucked up true story, I spoke to the scammer as well today, I have his number and know what state he lives in, he is scared but not telling me the truth, he thinks he can get away with it.