SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Both AAP, Cong govts failed to take action in sacrilege incidents: Badal
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/india/both-aap-cong-govts-failed-to-take-action-in-sacrilege-incidents-badal/2893379/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Jaito (PB), Mar 31 (PTI) Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday accused the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party of politicising sacrilege incidents, alleging that both their governments failed to take strict action in such cases.
Referring to a report, Badal said 597 sacrilege cases were reported in Punjab in the last 10 years, but only 44 resulted in convictions, while 99 ended in acquittals.
Addressing a rally under the party’s ‘Punjab Bachao’ campaign, Badal criticised some Panthic leaders for not visiting sites where such sacrilege incidents took place.
Show Full Article
He also alleged that incidents of sacrilege increased after AAP entered Punjab in 2014, and claimed that an AAP leader had been convicted in one such case.
Targeting Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann over his claim that Punjab is becoming number one in school education, the SAD president alleged that no new schools have been opened and the existing schools were merely being renamed as “Schools of Eminence”.
Alleging misuse of public funds, Badal said the state government organised a rally in Moga at government expense, and it is planning to hold around 16,000 such rallies, meetings and gram sabhas across the state using public money.
He termed it a “scam worth hundreds of crores” and urged Punjab Governor Gulab Chand Kataria to order an independent probe into the matter.
Badal also criticised AAP leaders for making “false claims” during election campaigning in Gujarat.
Outlining his party’s vision as assembly elections are due next year, Badal said the SAD would ensure Punjab’s water is not diverted to Rajasthan’s canals, promised tubewell connections to farmers, 12-hour daytime power supply, and the setting up of a World Skill University to train one lakh youth annually.
He also announced Rs 10 lakh worth of interest-free loans to youths, expansion of welfare schemes, an increase in old-age pension to Rs 3,100 per month, and free education up to graduation level for eligible students. PTI VSD RUK RUK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.