SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: What would you do if you have issue with property developer
DATE: 2024-12-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1h8nefv/what_would_you_do_if_you_have_issue_with_property/

--- POST TEXT ---

Background - Shelter is the basic thing that every human being needs..As middle class person ,i have been dwelling in rented house all my life and wanted to acquire a small piece of land to get away from curse of rent !

So found a property developer ( in Karnataka ) with good reviews who was offering property at price which I could afford in a less developed village ...since i couldnt afford to pay lumsump, I had to pay via EMI and as of now entire site payment is completed..

However the issue is that EMI was cleared before 2 years and been following since then to get site registered under my name... But the developer has been very evasive and giving one or the other reason and not helping and the wholevibe I'm getting from them is " I don't care and get the hell out of here" .

I don't have any contacts or influence who could help..I can't even go to a lawyer since current financial situation is lot of struggle and can't afford a lawyer and going to police seems useless since even they expect monetary benefits.

Kindly advice me what my options are since as per agreement document I have cleared the entire site payment and no due..The only proofs I have are the initial agreement document where initial advance was made( 50k) and rest EMI have been online transferred to developer's account over 3 years..

I'm not lawyer, but these are some steps I could take..kindly share your thoughts

Option 1- Since I'm helpless, is it legal to occupy the land without registration only based on the agreement since technically as agreed payment is completed....but developer is indirectly denying registration..

Option 2- Can I initiate online registration on state government's website ..What documents are required to do registration since I don't have tax receipts paid previously and don't have papers from original land owner.

Option 3- Is it legal to refuse to leave their office until the developer provides resolution or could he file a tresspass case against me. Technically he has my money for 2 years without any interest, so in a way I have rights to refuse to leave his office right?

I'm becoming desperate and helpless since it was hard earned money and I don't want to lose all if it was just an elaborate scam 😣..Many thanks

TLDR - how to get site registered from an evasive developer.