SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: SubscriberWrites: Are Cyber and AI a Boon or Bane
AUTHOR: T. Ayyappan
DATE: 2024-10-10
URL: https://theprint.in/yourturn/subscriberwrites-are-cyber-and-ai-a-boon-or-bane/2305755/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Thank you dear subscribers, we are overwhelmed with your response.
Your Turn is a unique section from ThePrint featuring points of view from its subscribers. If you are a subscriber, have a point of view, please send it to us. If not, do subscribe here:
https://theprint.in/subscribe/
I
n today’s world, most of us are addicted to Online Transactions, either for the purchase of Household articles & products, Gifts, or Food items or for payment for any personal / Official Service, like flight ticket purchase, etc., through Online mode, in our everyday life, especially after the outbreak of COVID.  COVID has imparted the “Art of Online Purchase”, in India and also in Foreign Countries, for the Purchase of Products & Services, all over the World.
Show Full Article
Now that AI [Artificial Intelligence] has also joined the forum of the internet/ Cyber world and with the introduction of Artificial intelligence, scammers can create fake—but convincing—audio of people’s voices, easier. The AI voice clones are proficient in present audio clips of human speech and can be attuned to imitate almost anyone. With the increasing adoption of Advanced Internet devices, the boundaries for Cybercriminals have increased significantly.   Nowadays, the General Public is forced to use Mobile Phones/ PC/ Laptops, for Online Transactions, their Personal & Business Transactions.  Even Theft of sensitive data, including personal identifiable information (PII) and bank-related information, [through Mobile Apps Online] can have shocking consequences for both General Public and big organizations. The more we go for Online / Digitalisation of Data, the more we succumb to Theft of sensitive Online Data, both official & personal Data.  The Citizens and their Data and their Strength & Weaknesses are being closely watched every moment by the Third Eye, i.e. Cyber World and AI.
The utmost Targets of Cybercriminals are the innocent General Public, who are being attacked by Cybercriminals, in several Crores, not only in India but also all over the world.   Particularly innocent Lower & Middle-income groups are the easy Targets by the Cybercriminals, every second.
It is evident that both Cyber World and AI are Double-Edged swords for the General Public and Corporate companies, in India and abroad.
Cybercriminals use various Cybercriminal tools, including Phishing, Pharming, hacking, identity theft, and cyberbullying, in a sophisticated manner, by sending Fake links and emails or redirecting to other malware, for extortion of information & money.  As per a Newspaper report, the General Public are losing between Rs.1 Lakh to Rs.1.5 lakh approximately, to Cybercriminals every minute in India.  The stoppage of Windows systems on 19th July 2024, a global outage, and the Hacking of US  information by Chinese hackers are some Cybercrime cases,  in a different form,  being noticed / unnoticed every day, happening all over the World.  What is the Safety Assurance for poor Middle & lower-income groups in India, when there is No  Cyber  Security at the National &  international levels?
With the help of AI, Cybercriminals, can even dupe the voice of any VIP or dupe like Government officials and extort Money / personal information, from the innocent general public.
AI is the latest tool
for Cybercriminals to perform Cybercrimes, with the latest technology, very cleverly.  Cybercrimes, not only lead to Loss of Money but also leads to Reputation Damage.   With the wide spreading of digital technology and the increasing occurrence of cybercrimes, It is essential to deviate from just doing a ‘post-mortem’ (after the Cyber assault is completed) to address the situation before the happening of Cybercrimes, in India.
Both the Central & State Government Department aims to create a safer and more secure cyberspace for residents across the Country.
Remedial measures suggested:
Provide the General Public with Contact WhatsApp Numbers, of Cybercrime Departments, in every Locality / State, and Centrally,  for complaining about Fake numbers/ Fraudulent Links, from Cybercriminals,  to arrest those Cybercriminals and their Group, without any delay or set up Cybercrime Police stations, in every locality.  Cybercrime Department has to publicize their “Contact WhatsApp number”, to the Citizens, in their Locality, in regular intervals, to complain against such Cybercriminals.
The Governments should try to introduce the latest Technology, for identifying genuine phone / Mobile numbers, URLs / Links, from the fraudulent ones used by Cybercriminals to reach out to their targets.
When framing Penal Action against Cybercriminals, they have to get the “Fear” in their mind, by the Harsh Steps/Measures of the Government bodies.
If the Government takes “One step forward” against Cyber Security threats, Cybercriminals take “Manifold steps” toward Cybercrime frauds,  in India & abroad,  which has to be kept in mind,  at the time of framing  Acts and Cyber Security Policies.   It is to be kept in mind that, Foreigner Cybercriminals are also involved in these sorts of Cybercrimes & AI Frauds, internationally.  It is in the hands of the Government to make the Citizens understand whether “Cyber World & AI” is a Boon or Bane, for the General Public.
(The Author Mr. T. Ayyappan is Retd. Senior Central Govt. Official, Chennai)
These pieces are being published as they have been received – they have not been edited/fact-checked by ThePrint