SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Someone tried to scam my friend using Jodi app
DATE: 2023-06-02
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/13xpfda/someone_tried_to_scam_my_friend_using_jodi_app/

--- POST TEXT ---

Few hours ago this incident ago happened as someone threatened my friend that either he pays them money or they will send his morphed images to friends and family and internet.

My friend is a fisherman and not well educated. Few hours ago he came to me and asked me to send 1k on phonepe to someone and that he will give me cash. He was sweating a lot and looked very nervous. When he gave me QR code to scan, I got warning that transaction is blocked due to security reasons and as I had doubts asked about what happened.

He told me that he had installed app named Jodi which is an matrimony app and texted one girl. I did check it and he hadn't done anything else. He was getting messages on WhatsApp where they sent him images on his FB account and threatening that either he sends them money or they will morph his images. They even sent link to one YouTube where they did poor edit of his photo and constantly kept messages and calling him.

He was very scared that they will ruin his reputation and even begged me not to tell anyone. Was ready to pay them 1k they were demanding but not willing to go to Police station to file complaint with notion that they might come to his home for investigation. 

The way he was behaving, I knew I had to do something. Took me several mins to convince and finally take him to Police station. Thankfully for us Police were kind enough to show support and explained to him he isn't the only one who came with such complaints and not to worry. Finally managed to calm him down and deleted all details like social media accounts and deactivated that phone number now.

While the problem is fixed now, I fear what would have happened if I wasn't there. So many incidents have happened where innocent people have been scammed of thousands of rupees and some have even committed suicide. I always make sure my family not to download any apps or talk with strangers on phone. 

We can't find these scammers and right now best thing we can do is to spread awareness among our family and friends on such matters and make sure they will not fall prey for such schemes.

Today this happened to my friend and tomorrow it can happen to someone else I know and even to friends and families of any of you as well. Is there any way we can tackle this issue? Cybercrimes are still very hard to bust in India. What can we do in these situations? Any suggestions?