SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: How can I track down scammer and former colleague who scammed me and few of my coworker handful amount of money
DATE: 2023-11-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/17zfakz/how_can_i_track_down_scammer_and_former_colleague/

--- POST TEXT ---

So my colleague who tricked me into paying him $150 of money, blocked me from contacting on social media DM as well as about to block me from my contact number so that he could get away with my money. Before he blocking me from my contact number, I confronted about him on text explaining him I could get police involved if he is thinking about ending a contact with me. This dude got awfully defensive about it and telling me 'he never blocked me on social media as well as from contact number and telling me he knows he will pay my money back'. When I showed him the proof about him blocking my Instagram account, he ended up unblocking but restricting my account.

It looks like dude is on escape with my money. He is also dropping out of college and in an attempt of leaving this city, just to get away with money he took from everyone. I asked Colleague A, and B who fall into victim of his scam, they suggest me to go to university campus, and confront him face to face. Bruh, I don't feel safe going alone, I might take my family members, relatives, and homies with me when I confront him. That dude is unsafe although he is Indian and did not born here. FYI, dude came to USA when he was young and have had troubling past which got em into juvenile school. I swear to god, if were in rural/countryside areas where is no regulations, and restrictions, me and my homies would bring hockey stick with me and beat em to oblivion and take his all scammed money and donate those money to people he scammed. Hey man, we can't do these type of thing in cities and town I live in (even small town) since rules are very very strict, and police are everywhere to make sure people don't start a fight (even if it is for retaliation purposes). 

Me and my group of my colleagues spoke to HR and assistant store manager about this scamming incident perpetrated by this dude, and they told me they can't do anything (give me his address/ inform his parents) since he is an employee. They suggest me to either contact university for this information or take matter into my own hand stalking him and tracking his address down. 

**Is there way I can track this dude down (All I need this his address)? If I contact his current workplace and university for emergency contact information and house address, would they most likely give me? If they cannot give contact information and house address, I expect them to at least contact his parents and explain what he did. If his university, and workplace wants me to show evidences of what does I am more than happy to provide it, as my friends have access to his account and stories where he post illegal activities.**

\[Note: When he says his mom has cancer and he needs X amount of money, that's a completely lie. He is actually using those money for buying, and selling drugs/weeds, and other illegal activities. Also to make other people believe his mom sickness legit, he most photoshopped images of his mom in ER, and post it on close friends stories (so people he follows can see it). He has 250 followers on social media sites, and have have been following/friending 240 people (which is plenty of amount). You would think he is generous with following people's account, but he only follow people's account for malicious purpose. Trust me he already have successfully scammed 2/3 (160) of the people he follows/friends with, and tools $150 of amount from them. However, 40 of other people only paid him partial amount (only $50 max). And 20 of the people said no to this. In total, he had already scammed 220 people he friends with. He had taken $150 amount from each of the 160 people (which includes me), then never paid. In total, he scammed $26k amount of money which is clearly almost $30k. I tried getting help for police, but police telling me there is nothing they can do and even if they can do something they need to come to my home or workplace to speak to me. Additionally I have to gather and show adequate evidence before they start investigation.

I would appreciate if someone answer my questions mark in bold on the comment and give me wise advice about how to get my money back? \]