SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scam of CyberPC Experts
DATE: 2015-10-07
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/3nuzr5/scam_of_cyberpc_experts/

--- POST TEXT ---

Quick facts:
1. It is indeed a scam!
2. Do not go to any other site to give them remote access to your computer! For me the vendor was Safeapzz.
3. Do not buy any technical support software from them. If you have already done this, try and get your money back within the 30 day refund policy. I'm not sure they will refund it so easily, but it's worth a shot. Here is my nightmare with CyberPC Experts.
 I was first introduced to this company in April 2015 when, suddenly my husband's PC froze and a message popped up saying the security of my computer was compromised and I needed to dial the number listed below for assistance. I couldn't click off the tab or open up any other files. Unfortunately, I did not shut off my computer, which sounds like it's the best solution if this happens to you. 
 When I called the number the person, they directed me to a different site where I essentially gave them remote access of the PC. I am in no way tech savvy, so here's where they got me. They brought up a list of cookies, malware, and adware on my computer, displaying our passwords and SS#s. I was totally freaked out! The tech support person (Indian- they are located in India), was very pushy, adding to my increasing anxiety. I thought that this sensative material was available for the whole internet to see. Thus, I bought their technical support package for $351.20 for 3 years, which included antimalware, antivirus, and antiadware. Everything looked professional - they "debugged" my computer, a process which took about an hour, and sent me a ticket for the work they had completed.
 Then, August, I got a call from CyberPC experts. They told me a PC in Korea was trying to gain access to my PC. What?! How is that possible?! I handed the phone to my husband because it is his computer. The support guy insisted that they could be hacking into the computer at this very moment and tried to show him the IP address. He then, however, proceeded to try and sell us antivirus and antimalware. The red flag went up. My husband gave me the phone and I explained that I had already bought it back in April. He asked if there were any other computers in the house and then which credit card we had used to purchase the 3 year tech support. Somewhere in this bedlam of stress, my husband allowed them to begin working on his computer. The tech support guy was persistant, telling me how we needed to act fast or else. I told him I needed to take some time to think about it, to log out of our computer, which he didn't like, and told him I would call him back. After I hung up, we couldn't get back into the computer. The password didn't work! We were essentially locked out. A good friend who has a PhD in computer science happened to be with us the following day and spent several hours recovering our files and data. How he did this, I have no idea! Oh the luck!!
 So Aug 22, I called to cancel their service and ask for a refund. They agreed to refund $151 as it was passed the 60 day refund period. This was by no means easy! They are a super scripted company that talks you in circles until you feel like you are getting nowhere and want to give up. I explained I no longer trust them and don't want their service. They told me the refund would be processed in 7 business days.
I called back Sept 10 as it had not been processed. They told me that it they 60 day refund period had passed and their gateway could no longer process the request. I was so angry and told them it wasn't my problem they were having problems with their gateway! They promised me a partial refund and I wanted it! They said they would send another message to their gateway, CLKBANK, and it would take 24-48 hours for it to process. All of these conversations took at least an hour as I would be directed from tech support, to the bill pay center, back to tech support, and then to a manager. It's CRAZY!!
 Sept 17, I was fed up. No money in my account. I called for an email listing all the tickets sent to me and why they could not refund my money. I wanted to have a strong case when I went to my bank and knew I needed hard evidence that I had tried and the "gateway" would not refund the money. Here's where I about lost my mind: The tech support person told me they didn't have the authority to write me an email. What?! I gave you remote access to my computer and you can't send me a simple email like you do every time after you have "worked" on my computer?! I asked to speak to their manager. Same story. Their MANAGER couldn't even write me an email. Here it was clear that they weren't cooperating and I was beyond mad. They told me to call back in an hour to speak with someone in some random department I can't remember.
 Two hours later, tech support can't write the email and they once again try and get me to talk to their manager. I explained that their manager does not have the authority to write the email, so why would I want to speak with them? This lady kept going round and round! She literally couldn't answer a yes or no question. 
Me:"Do you have the authority to write me an email?"
Indian Lady: "Miss, I understand the difficulty of this situation. I am going to transfer you to my manager."
Me: "I already know your manager doesn't have the authority to write me an email, so no, don't transfer me to your supervisor! I need to know who can write me an email."
Indian Lady: "I hear your words and am trying my best to answer your questions. Let me have you talk to my manager."
And on and on for what seemed like an eternity! I had to be downright mean and cut her off because she would have these scripted replies that didn't answer my questions! I was transferred to the manager because I was getting nowhere. The manager begrudgingly agreed to write the email. I felt I had reached the end, though. She wasn't going to write it and we both knew it. She told me I could write an email to their Complaint Center and they could look into it further.
 I had no other options, so I decided to research the other companies associated with the scammers: Safeappz and CLKBank. Sapeappz site states that they do not involve any third parties. So I called them and asked if Cyber PC Experts was a third party. He said they were and I told him that that directly contradicts what they say on their site. He tried to backpeddle and it didn't work. I gave him the speil about my refund and he transferred me to the Bill Center, which was the manager for Cyber PC Experts I had just talked with 10 minutes earlier!? From here, I decided to talk to the gateway, Clikbank. After telling the lady in customer service my story, she got permission from her supervisor to refund the full amount! On September 17, the full $351.20 was transferred to my bank from Clickbank. Clickbank said they had halted sales with Cyber PC Experts in May 2015, so they were probably trying to disassociate their name from the scammers. Good idea!