SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: Lift Scams - are they real?
DATE: 2021-10-20
SCORE: 135
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/qbt1sc/lift_scams_are_they_real/

--- POST TEXT ---

Started (19th Oct'21) Hi everyone. So the thing is that just yesterday I gave a lift to drop a lady (probably in her 45's) from Ambattur to CMBT. It's around 11 and there were no bus service at that time so I though of helping her a bit. And while we were talking she said she is doing real estate side by side and she got my number and said I will call you if I ever miss the bus and if you are leaving at that time then do help me out. She was also enquiring if I take the same route daily and and what's the timing I leave and come and this is just general talks for sure. But for some reason I am fearing that I might get mugged by her group if I give her a lift the next time and this fear is quite baseless though. Anyone else have faced or heard about these kind of things happening around chennai or is there a possibility that in my entire life I am gonna be first in something atleast lol. Or I am just over imagining this.

Update 1(20th Oct'21): So since I was sceptical about if it's a scam or just a horny aunty or just some poor aunty trying to save on bus fair I had told her that I will be leaving office a bit late to see if she would be willing to wait even if it's late or to understand what her game plan is. Ofcourse I left at the usual time and when I left I called her to see if she still waiting and she said I boarded bus and left. The she asked if we can meet in the weekends and I denied as I am going to Bangalore for 10 days. But I told her that I am going to Bangalore for 2 months and she said "then what will I do alone over here" and then she asked if we can meet in the afternoon for a coffee or something. I denied that invite since I have to go to office at afternoon and she said then we will meet at night. She also asked to buy her some chudidar since I am leaving or to buy something for her from Bangalore and come. I said that I don't even know you that much and we just met yesterday and how can I give you gift. She said "eh" can't hear properly and said we will meet tomorrow then ok bye and cut the call. I tried calling her again after 20 mins and the line was busy and then it was switched off. Now I see that she isn't willing to listen to anything I say or what I am asking but she just talks over me and responds with something else. 

My game plan for today is as below but I would use this tomorrow. The game plan is that I would hide my phone and purse in the bag and provide lift tomorrow. My bag has a rain coat cover at the bottom and not even I knew about it until 2 months after I bought it so it's pretty hidden. Other than that the only thing I keep in my bag is a water bottle and some change. I will tell her that someone stole my phone while I was talking when coming over here and I forgot my purse at home so I have nothing today. And I will see how she reacts. If it's a scammer and as tomorrow will be the only chance they get to do something then I am assuming she would think the loot is not that worth for 2 months and she would just forget me and never disturb me again. Probably would say some bad words to me in frustration that the time and her effort went to waste. If she is not a scammer then I am assuming that she will say oh poor guy and tell to reach to police and stuff and try to console me. If she is just horny then she might make some moves tomorrow and I don't Intend my first time to be with an aunty thats double my age. Maybe she is a shota though as I am 26 but I look like 14~. Anyways will update this tomorrow around 12pm IST.

Update 2 (21st Oct'21): So I called her 2 times today and she was busy on another call and around an hour before the pick up time I tried again and I was able to reach her. She said she had left early and on her way to home as she had some urgent work. And she said we will see tomorrow how it goes and do call me when you are free and we said bye and closed the call. In 5 mins she called again and asked if I had called her and I said no and she cut the call saying ok then we will see tomorrow. Then after another 5 min she calls me and asks for a favour and I said tell me what it is and I will see if it's possible. She said that I need to text some relative of hers. She wanted me to send "I've sent you the legal notice so pay the money that you have to or else I will bring police". I denied as I don't want to be in anyway involved with these stuff and she said I will take it up with police then no issues. She also said that I don't know to send message so help me out but I denied again and she said then I will call them and tell them this. And we again said we will see tomorrow and said our goodbyes and closed the call. 

Now that I know that she is involved in some court cases and stuff and police too now I am really fearing that she may drop a false case on me and you all know that the law system will deem me as guilty until proven innocent. Ofcourse this is just me now really afraid that she might not do any scamming but straight up do more worse than just a scam. Blackmail me into giving her lump sum (which I don't have and can't afford too) and stuff is totally possible and I do fear that my reputation and good name that I've earned would be gone just like that. I am actually not feeling well and having some cold and soar throat so I am planning to take a sick leave tomorrow. Ofcourse as this would be a surprise for my manager it would be a surprise for that lady too. So i guess this is the end and after thinking about this too much I am planning to chicken out of meeting her ever again. I now really feel that this is not right and I should definitely back out. I am not even attracted to her anyways. Since I am going to Bangalore on this Saturday for 10 days she won't be able to find me here and once I am back I am gonna take a different route all together to go to office and back to home until a few months. I won't block her, haven't blocked anyone till this day and I hope she just looses interest and leave me alone by herself. I don't want to anger her by blocking cause she might do something in anger so I just wanna be safe. 

I will update this thread again if something happens but as of now that's all I guess. Sorry guys it ended in a lame way cause of certain situations. I hope you all understand and since she is so older than me it's not even worth. If it was a girl about my age then atleast there is some justification but in her case nothing would work out and people would call me a fool, loosu ku, MC BC chutia etc...