SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Stock market Regular income scam
DATE: 2023-07-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15ay8ea/stock_market_regular_income_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

My friend told that he works with future and options and made me invest almost 5 lakhs saying that he will give 10000 every weekday. I started from 25000 then reached 500000. But as soon as I paid the full amount he gave me only 25000 as "payouts" and told that he is in loss of 38 lakhs. And I have to wait because he is not getting investors. He is not sebi registered and I doubt that he is scamming people. Please I want to know how I could recover my money. I complained with police but he told that if the complaint goes to court then he will prove that he is in lose. I request sebi/ legal advisors to tell me any alternative way were I can recover my money. I am heavily depressed because of this. I had to take a loan of 1.5 lakhs which I am paying emi. He is telling that he is not doing trading from past 6 months and telling lame excuses. I doubt him for fraud and cheating. Please suggest a way to scold him like people who take bribes are get caught. I have only WhatsApp chat to prove it. Please help me overcome from this depressed state. Please come with any idea to get back my money. He told he is a freelancer. I should not have believed him. Is there any way to declare him as default / fraud and get back my money. I need my 4 lakhs at any cost. But getting atleast 3-3.5 lakhs will be beneficial. Is there any possibility to freeze his account and get back my money. Please explain the procedure. Sebi cannot do anything because he is not registered with Sebi. I know his address and planning to see him in person. From some of my friends i came to know that he lend money from them also and did not return. Even if he is in a lose, if he is continuing trading, he should give me shares from the profit. He is not at all transparent with what he did with my money. 

Thanks