SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: my experience: scammed by "sugar mom"
DATE: 2022-10-26
SCORE: 152
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/ydu401/my_experience_scammed_by_sugar_mom/

--- POST TEXT ---

I (26f) was embarrassingly scammed by a "potential sugar mom" on I think seeking . com a few years ago. I've never come fully to terms with this experience as it was too embarassing and damaging to reflect on or do damage control on. Just to preface, I was a pretty naive and trusting person, whether or not that's due to me just having poor social/life skills or because that's just who I am inherently because I'm autistic and have ADHD. I'm not fully sure how well that correlates but maybe it does? I was a broke Native American young adult going to college who needed money for bills but was afraid to do a more traditional sugar baby sugar daddy situation as I did not believe myself to be attractive or confident enough to put myself out there like that to older men. For some reason, I thought women just felt safer to talk to. That info is just for background and context on me as a person. I'm still incredibly frustrated and embarrassed by how I was back then and how trusting and forgiving and oblivious I was.

I made a free account using a school email that allowed you to have a premium profile I believe? Started talking to a lady who called herself Sharon. One of the many red flags was that she wanted to take the conversation away from the websites messaging to email and text. Obviously upon reflection, this should've been a more of a "duh that's suspicious" sign to me but don't worry, there's more instances of me being kinda dumb. 

We email back and forth for a week or two or hell it could've been a month and she's already wanting me to buy gifts cards, gain access to my bank account to deposit fraudulent checks online, telling me to get off my dad's phone plan and get my own account and she can buy me a new phone and etc and pay for the phone bills, telling me to sign up for credit cards which I've never had before and to use those credit cards to buy more gift cards for her and that she'll send me money to pay the bills on all of this. Hell I think she even signed in on my credit card account and added her banking info to make a payment that obviously didn't work. God I think she even made a bank account in my name because I think I even got blank checks or something from the bank that she wanted me to use for idk what anymore. I think I tried finding out if I ever had an account with them or if the checks were just faked with that info, I don't remember the outcome and it just scared me after the fact of how NOT overly concerned I was with what's happening so far. 

This wasn't quite all at once, this did occur over a few months of her (if she even was a woman) being nice to me over text and asking me about my day and how to not worry about any of the shit she was telling me to do because she'll pay for it all and it's not a big deal. Of course I just listened and did as I was told, I just believed her, didn't tell anyone else what was going on, was just ruining my credit score and my life and everything. 

It got worse when she used my log in info for my Verizon account to buy me, supposedly, a new phone and an apple watch and idk what else. It came in the mail to me, I thanked her and she said oh no these aren't for you, these are for my company workers or whatever tf excuse, and that my phone was coming in soon after. Wanna guess what happens next? She has me mail them to her in in New York I believe. At least she got one of her "friends" to send me shipping money through Cashapp because I was broke, had maxed out credit cards, had no physical cash anymore, so I thought hey, at least she's doing that. That money was the only money I've gotten from this whole shitty situation. So yeah, sent the phones, got a long phone bill charging me for the phone and stuff and the international calls that were made on the phone since i guess the phone made it to India I think??? 

God, I hate myself. I eventually became so scared and so worried and just panicking that my only response was to ignore it all and pretend none of this had happened to me despite the terrible consequences that ensued. I didn't wanna admit what happened to me had happened, didn't take any real steps to report the scams, just let it ruin my everything. Basically I became an ostrich, put my head in the sand, and just pretended nothing bad and stupid had happened to me because I was too smart to ever fall so deep in an obvious scam right?? 

To be honest, I've only barely bounced back, but only sort of. I paid off a credit card that went into collections, paid off two current credit cards, changed phone carriers thru I believe Wing so they could get Verizon to let me go without me having to talk to Verizon because the thought of admitting I was scammed and have a shitty bill I need to pay now to a real Verizon person on the phone made me want to die. It was easier just to pretend nothing would come back to haunt me. Changed phone carriers again, have a new number, finally gained online access to my banking online thru the website and app after having been put into timeout after Sharon deposited a bad check into my account, and have made progress on trying to reverse the damage done. 

The thought never occurred to me to report this to tbe FBI or police or to my bank or the companies whose gift cards I got from or to my phone carrier, to anybody who could help me. I was almost self-punishing myself for ruining my life with such a dumb scamming ploy by going thru this defeat on my own. 

Now I doubt I'll be to apply for financing with my husband for a little mobile home on a rented lot since rent for apartments is outrageous or truly get my credit score back to what it was or pay everything else off. Now I'm just getting ready to finish this art degree at my local native college in hopes that my slow brain who can barely keep up at my current easy job can produce semi okay art and sell them or become an author because writing was my special interest/hobby. Perhaps everything will work out in the end, it has been years after all. But I can't help the awful cynical thoughts that berate me for my mistakes and make me not want to try anymore. But I should, for my husband and for myself. 

Thank you for reading about the most embarrassing and life ruining situation I got myself into a few years back. Here's to getting my life back on track.