SUBREDDIT: r/hyderabad
TITLE: Need help. 
DATE: 2024-11-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1go5r0l/need_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

Didn't find apt title so pls bare with me. 

I am a first time house buyer and trying to buy a flat for me and my parents in hyderabad. we were in house hunting process for last 2-3 years. As a person who lived with my parents in rented house for our entire life we decided to get settled as we are now earning decently. 

 Now our problem is we have very limited knowledge on this and wanted to educate ourself a bit. 

We have been following this approach lately 
1. Search for a normal 2-3bhk flat in aptmnt in 99 acres/magic bricks. ( I don't want to pay to brokers) 
2. Reach out to seller directly, discuss about property and negotiate if any. 
3. They show sale deed and some other basic documents like OC and sanction copy and they ask for token amount directly. 
So step 3 is the major one where we get stuck ans back off from the deal. 

I am seeking help from you guys for following questions. 
 1.Do I really need to just pay off 3-5 lakhs just by seeing these very basic documents or need to ask extra documents and get it verified. 
2. Should I be doing thorough bgc on the seller whether any fraud or any illegal property. 
3. Can I hire some lawyer/legal just for above one to do genuince bgc on the property for legal or not. 
4. I would be going for a loan so which bank does best work in reasonable amount of time. 
5. (Main one) many sellers are asking for downpayment in full cash(not even online/chequeu) and I'm bit hesitant in this and how do I draw literal full cash of 20lakhs and payoff this. Even If I am ready to compromise on this will I face any legal issues or tax issues?
 I've been working my ass off from many years for this and don't want to mess up in any single step. Because we are in fragile conditions and building again from scratch if any mishaps will destroy my parents dreams. 

People who had similar experience help a friend out please!