SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Facebook Love Scams?
DATE: 2024-05-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d2ma3e/facebook_love_scams/

--- POST TEXT ---

a few months ago, i got a message from my mom asking me if i could loan her money so she could help out a “friend” of hers. i asked her WTF she meant, and she told me she needs $300 to send to this guy she sort of knows. 

i called her and she explained that she added this random guy on Facebook one day, and they’ve been talking for awhile- texting, calling on the phone, and she even was able to video call with him (although she didn’t turn her camera on). she said this guy is from the US and has a job in Russia, is rich, married, has a kid.. and that he’s currently on his way to Russia to “begin working”. he tried to get her into crypto, but she talked him out of it. THEN he said his luggage got stolen while he was waiting for his ride to his house in Russia and he needs HER to go buy gift cards because that’s the only way he can pay for his.. um.. internet access? he tried to romance my mom a lot before this, “babe, honey, dear, lets run away together” shit despite my mom consistently telling him that she is married.

i told her this dude is fake, is just trying to scam her, etc… but she fought me on it. she said his profile looked true, the times he texted her lined up with whatever timezone Russia was in, and the guy she video called looked like the guy in the profile. so i checked his profile out, and it does date back several months. he has some random shit on there, but multiple pictures of himself &amp; his family.

i just figured this dude was one of those “more serious” scammers who made up a whole fake profile &amp; filled it with a ton of content over the course of several months to make it look like he’s real, which is what i told my mom. 

i was able to convince her that the guy she was talking to was indeed 100% fake, and she blocked him. BUT she ended up unblocking him and continuing to play into his fake story????? 

she told me that she likes wasting his time, pointing out the many.. MANY flaws in his fake story and seeing his reaction, and that she knows he’s just trying to scam her. but regardless, she wants to see how long she can keep him “hooked”..? 

fortunately, she showed me her entire text conversation since she started talking to him back in March, and i noticed he had sent her multiple audio messages. as i listened to his voice, i could tell he had a heavy accent, Nigerian.. Indian.. i couldn’t exactly pinpoint it. but needless to say, i wasn’t surprised he didn’t sound like the basic old white guy that was in his Facebook profile. 

i desperately dont want my mom talking to him anymore, but anything i tell her doesn’t mean shit. i’m terrified for her safety, and i don’t know if he could get any of her information by her continuing to talk to him. she already knows not to tap any links he sends, but is there anything i can do to convince her to give it up? is it as dangerous as i think it is?