SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Phone stolen near Gharvebhavi Palya
DATE: 2022-01-22
SCORE: 111
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/sa15xi/phone_stolen_near_gharvebhavi_palya/

--- POST TEXT ---

My phone got stolen in Gharve bhavi palya bus stop.
Writing this so you guys can be aware.

I wanted to enter the bus. Two guys entered in front of me and blocked the door and started asking questions to conductor "Can we come in this bus in bus pass" " is the ticket price high" I was in second step, while they were in the top step. Two people were behind me.i was stuck in the middle.i tried to move front but the guys in front were blocking the door with his hands. After 1 minute they said this bus is costly(AC BUS) and wanted to step down.I moved slightly and the 2 guys got down.after the bus moved for 1-2 mins I realised my phone in my pocket is missing.

I quickly blocked the jio phone number. I had my father number as alternative number.so he got the OTP and I could block the sim easily.

I called the banks and blocked net/UPI/mobile banking.

I went to jio store got the new sim with the same number. I changed the passwords of all the email IDs.I have requested Google to delete all data once the phone goes online.
I have sent a email to cyber police Bangalore to block the IMEI number (you can see in the bill or top of the box)
This was just to ensure that if any illegal activity happens with that phone I won't be questioned.
And if I am lucky they will see the mail and put the IMEI number as stolen and block the phone

Key points:
Have difficult pattern or password to open phone. Fingerprint also good.
Don't have photos in phone which you don't want to get leaked.
Have different passwords for email,photos apps.
Have recovery mail as your trusted friends/parents/sibling mail.
Have alternative number in jio to block the number quickly.

My fears :
My worries were that they can easily enter the phone and change all my email ID passwords by getting OTP to my mobile number.
That's why I blocked the mobile number first.this will ensure they can't make those changes.

They still can see my photos good thing I had all decent photos only.