SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Seeking Legal Advise for Harassment from RBI regulated Loan App
DATE: 2024-10-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1geww2f/seeking_legal_advise_for_harassment_from_rbi/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm a victim of harassment and abuse from a loan app regulated by RBI. The harassment and abuse have continued for 2 years. During this time, I have received numerous abusive calls from this loan app's recovery department. The loan amount was under 6k, and I delayed the payment by just 1 day when their agent called and started using abusive language. 

I then called their customer support number and complained about this, to which they replied that they had registered the complaint. I asked for a complaint number, and they said I would receive it on my registered email. After waiting 24 hours and receiving no complaint number or acknowledgment, I called back inquiring about the complaint. They said they had registered another complaint and that I would receive the complaint number on my registered email. During that call, I informed them that I would not make any payment until I received the complaint number or acknowledgment from their company. It's been 2 years, and I still haven't received any acknowledgment.They extracted my contacts list, and people from my contacts, including my parents, have received harassment calls. 
 
They even spammed my phone number with login OTPs from various online platforms such as Rummy, Snapdeal, and other e-commerce platforms. I recorded 3-4 calls and still have these OTP spam messages on my phone.I emailed the grievance and nodal department of this loan app with all the proofs and a detailed summary. After taking a month for investigation, their nodal department replied, 'We have found nothing wrong with these recordings, and these numbers are not associated with our company.' They also called and said the same thing, which I recorded as well.I then filed a complaint with the RBI Ombudsman, and the next day, I received a call from this loan app's grievance department. They wanted to see the proofs, and I informed them that I had shared everything they needed. They said they would review and call back. 
 
Three days later, they called again and repeated that these numbers don't belong to them. I went through two more call recordings that I hadn't shared previously via email and shared the person's name and contact numbers with them to verify if they were also not associated with the company. After that, they said they were investigating.I shared the full summary and all proofs in a drive link with RBI in a follow-up email to the RBI ombudsman. 
 
Today, I received a call from the same person in the loan app's grievance department, who said he had personally investigated thoroughly and agreed that such calls were made by two people in their department whom the company has already terminated. He then offered to waive off the loan (less than 6k), the penalty(which i was never ready to pay) and fix the CIBIL damages caused by their company. (I have recorded proof of this call) 
 
This is not acceptable at all. The people from my contacts list who were harassed are not even picking up my calls anymore due to the repeated harassment calls. I suffered mental and social damages, not just CIBIL damage (which he said is non-negotiable).I never said I wouldn't pay the loan amount. I have always agreed to pay what I owe but not the penalty because the delay is not my fault.What they're offering is nothing compared to the damages I have suffered. 
 
I haven't accepted their resolution yet and told them I would think about it and call back tomorrow. After two years of abuse and harassment, social and mental damages, and OTP spams - they used to call me 7-8 times a day (though most calls have stopped since I filed the complaint with RBI) - I still received 2 messages and 2 calls a few days ago.I haven't heard back from RBI yet. 
 
What should I do? Can someone guide me?