SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: IRS Impersonator Scam
DATE: 2014-11-11
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/2lz2fu/irs_impersonator_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, to start out, I suffer from mild anxiety and a family history of panic attacks. I am a completely straight-arrow person and have never had any meaningful interaction with the wrong side of the law. I've been on the internet most of my life, since the AOL days, and I've seen my fair share of e-mail scams and whatnot.

I was unaware of just how vulnerable I was to a well-orchestrated telephone scam.

So, the call comes in on my land line, a rarity seeing as I use a personal cell phone for basically all my business. I am immediately informed that due to a lack of response to multiple letters from the IRS, that they are pursuing legal action and that a warrant is out for my arrest and that once I assent that I understand the situation a patrol car will be dispatched to take me to jail for no less than 6 months. During this period all legal fees, bills, and other such things will apparently be waived.

Anxiety is a funny thing. Mine doesn't tend to be set off instantly. It's something that builds up, and this guy was dog-piling me pretty hard. Each piece of information I was delivered drove me further and further into panic. He spent a good 10 minutes sucker-punching me and leaving me in a daze.

It was only once I was good and tenderized, on the edge of being sick, worrying about what was going to happen over the next six months, worrying about whether I'd be okay or not, and wondering if I wasn't going to have to go to the hospital for what was probably going to be my first major panic attack that he provided a lifeline. He said that if I was certain that I had a clean record, that I had nothing that would suggest that I had any intent of perpetrating some $6000 or so of unpaid taxes in 2012, that he could talk to his supervisor and get the warrant held.

He proceeded to tell me to call a number, which at the time(since it was my land line) I was unaware was the -same number-, which would transfer me to a different office who would handle my case. Keeping in mind that the first guy had a thick Indian accent, the person who answered sounded almost like the same person. He told me he was with the IRS Security Offices or some such thing, and proceeded to take me on a ride.

I was informed that if I spoke to anyone else about what I was being told, that I could suffer a further 6 years in jail, $50000 in fines, and the possibility of those people getting caught up too. Again, I reiterate, I realize how crazy and obvious these things seem, but the state of mind I was worked into was paniced and desperate. I am no idiot, but my emotional state was carefully manipulated and in a way I was apparently completely unprepared for and vulnerable too.

Anyway, I was to call him on my cell phone, not disconnect the call, get a cab, and go to the bank. If I disconnected the call at any point the warrant would go through and the police would be dispatched. After withdrawing some sufficient sum of money, I would be told where to buy 'Official Federal Payment Cards', but only after.

Thankfully the story turns here for the better, as I encountered my father. He managed to work the situation out of me despite my insistence that I might go to jail if I tell him. He took hold of the situation, made me hang up my phone, made me not answer as not only that same number called again, and again, but also an 'Emergency Number' which I assume was a spoofed 911. He proceeded to take over, call -them- back, tell them they were going to be reported to the FBI's Fraud Bureau, and the IRS. They hung up, he called again, said the same, hang up again. After the second time we only got an answering machine.

I got to my computer, googled the phone number, and found that others had reported it as a fraudulent IRS Officer's number, and a similar Indian-accented fellow. It was -only- then that my panic and anxiety truely receded. This took place on November 10th 2014. After a vigorous night's work to clear my head, I now sit down to relate this story to others. It's embarrassing, humiliating, and revealing of a horrible weakness of mine that I wasn't sure before of the true depth of. It was something I can learn from, and steel myself against. More importantly, I can hopefully WARN others that may not be so knowledgeable of these things as I was.

Also, I love my father. He hasn't always been the best man, but he really came through for me yesterday. He saw the trembling, scared face of my mother in me for the first time, and knew exactly what to do and how to deal with it. Anxiety and panic attacks bringing family closer together I guess. I still haven't slept, and I still feel uneasy, but I'm relieved, and I hope that this pain I've experienced may help someone else.

tl;dr An IRS impersonator tried to scam me, rescued by my father, hoping to warn others against these kinds of dangers.