SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: UNO Reverse - Scammer got Scammed
DATE: 2023-04-15
SCORE: 100
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/12mvara/uno_reverse_scammer_got_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently you might be hearing a scam which is going on whatsapp and telegram. The scammers send you link and you need to watch the videos like, share and subscribe and send the screenshot to them.

I recieved a whatsapp message message from an unknown number stating that he is from an Marketing agency. You can receive a payment on daily basis by liking videos.

I knew it was fishy but still I proceeded. He gave me telegram link where I needed to connect with a person called "Receptionist"

First she told me 3 task in which I needed to go and watch youtube videos and just share the screenshot of it.

So I randomly opened from my youtube app and sent the screenshot of liked, comment and subscribe video. (I used my youtube app not theirs because the link which they send might download a trojan app or virsu on phone) 

Now they told me to share my bank account details. I was hesitant at first but then I shared details. They also told to share screenshot of the money recieved. (Just to check how much account balance I had)

After 3 mins, I recieved a total of 150rs in my bank account. I WAS SHOCKED. 

Then again they added me in the telegram group where they were sending screenshot of the amount paid. Like in 1-2min the group was bombarded with 40-50 screenshots of amount paid. 

Task 4,5,6 came. They gave me some links to YT. i just forwarded the earlier screenshot and boom then again 150rs in my account.

Then they again said to do Task 7,8,9 same YT videos. I did . BOOM again 150rs in my account. 

Now they told me to do Taks 10,11,12 . Here comes the twist. Now they told me to send 1000rs (Task11)as they had some thing to do with investement. I knew this was last. I did Task 10,12 watch YT. Boom they sent me again 125rs.

Till now
150+150+150+125 = 575 Rs free.

Now again they forced me to task 11. I didn't. Again they sent me task 14,15,16 YT vids. I thought it was over. But they still sent me 100rs now.

Total I had 675rs from them.

Then they told me.to continue next day. I instantly blocked them. Took backup of chats and Deleted chats from telegram. 

This is how Scammers got scammed. Now the whatsapp number and telegram profile of the scammer is deleted .

I gave the money to needy.

Long Story Short.
I received a message from unknown number to complete task. They paid me total of 675rs. When they knew I was not that guy who could get scammed. They told me to check on the next day for more task. I blocked them from everywhere. Changed my atm pin, netbanking pass etc.