SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Urgent help in aunt's divorce scenario 
DATE: 2024-12-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1hoxsyz/urgent_help_in_aunts_divorce_scenario/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello all. I need some views and advice regarding the following scenario. 

My fathers family is 9 siblings in total. 4M &amp; 5F. My dad is 3rd oldest in Males and this is about the younger M, my dad's younger brother. He got married to one of the daughters from my aunt's( one from 5F ). 

My uncle is an alcoholic before the wedding itself. And they had 2 kids, one boy and girl. Boy is studying degree 2nd year, girl is nearing 10th std. Right from the beginning, they never had an easy going equation. My uncle is arrogant and egoistic af, and my aunt is innocent. She believed that she can change this man, and compromised for kids future. But nothing changed, it only became worse and complicated from their wedding. 

He is known for doing some frauds in the family. Nobody really trusts him and they are kind of scared of going against him. He was caught having extra marital affairs with different people, but he was smart enough to erase the proofs. Recent chapter was quite troubling for my aunt and he was really crossing many limits and behaving recklessly. Daily alcohol, fights with wife, neglecting kids, just does whatever he pleases. 

Sad thing he's got support from other people in the family, even my aunt's own brothers are bitching about her and framing, cornering her. Now she wants to come out of the marriage after waiting for so long, and kids health also stated to spoil now. My sister got low bp and her blood report showed low hb, severe stress and migraines etc
 
She doesn't have any support from the family. I and one of my cousin brother are close to her. We are seeing how to tackle the situation. 

I want to know what can be done. That man has some influence. In the past, they settled a divorce case in the family, so they knew how all of this works. And they are pretty criminal minded. 

A discussion may mostly happen in few days and my aunt is emotionally loaded and charged. I wanted to know how to tackle this part, what all options are possible? What should be our solid arguments?

I asked her to record calls, or get evidence for whatever allegations she wanted to make. Basically any tips and insights as to how navigate these scenarios will be very much appreciated. 

Thank you for sharing your views.