SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The social pressure fermented out of ignorance and unfettered bigotry
DATE: 2020-03-10
SCORE: 40
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/fgfdhu/the_social_pressure_fermented_out_of_ignorance/

--- POST TEXT ---

A bit of rant here:

\[CAN SKIP: My quick background: Me born and grew up in South India (five of my childhood (class 2-7) years were abroad), engineering from top institutes and working in R&amp;D. (Typical South Indian life). Have worked in USA for few years came back with a misplaced sense of patriotism and left in a hurry and am presently living in UK. Planning to move countries to east Asia soon, maybe China or Singapore.\]

So I have cousins who are well educated, working in MNC's and earn good wages in India. But what I am shocked by is that they are some of the most bigoted people I have met in my travels! They won't let maids come into the kitchen or wash their utensils in the house. The women are made to sit out and not touch anything in the house when having their periods (they sleep on the floor and use a toilet outside the house). They refuse to go to weddings of "non-brahmins" since the food is not cooked by Brahmins. I am talking same age group as me 28-38!

These are the guys who have been feeding "WhatsApp Uni" reading material to my mother that Coronavirus is a Chineese conspiracy to hurt India and other countries. They have also been feeding my parents fake Homeopathic medicine and quack AYUSH cures. During the Patanjali phase they are the one's who posted and still do on FB, to boycott Chinese products while still voting in our present government with gusto.

(BONUS: My parents went to a wedding recently with said cousins and their families. There was a veg momo stand there and they told my mom to not eat it because momo's are from China and she may get Coronavirus!!!!!! W.T.A.F)

I can go on with anecdotes which betray their extreme bias and overt racism to their own people. But I have rambled on.

Now, they are having kids in hoards and mostly because (and this is one thing that makes me believe in Karma) all my cousins, no exception have had girls! And they all want a son. One of my cousins dad cried when his daughter has a second girl child, out of remorse that t'wast a boy!!!!

(BONUS2: That same uncle, when my mom has my sister came to see her and said (translating from Telegu) "Ayioo, she is so dark. How will she get married." This is two hours after the delivery. I cannot imagine the emotional trauma my mother endured.

I tried to argue with my similarly IIT educated cousin that nationalism is not the same as patriotism. And patriotism itself has many issues. He went ballistic calling me anti-national.

What has happened to us? Growing up I though my generation would be the one to climb out of this bigotry and racism that is so prevalent in our communities, but we seem to be regressing at warp speed. How did we get here? And I am confident this is not my story alone. Everyone of you probably has a cousin in this mold.

TL;DR: What has happened to a generation of educated millennial's that is causing us to go right wing nut crazy?