SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Psychologist Asked Big Fees and Refuses to Properly Examine
DATE: 2023-02-16
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1135br1/psychologist_asked_big_fees_and_refuses_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: Psychologist spent twenty minutes analysing the patient and took 10k diagnosis fees. It's totally bad practice in this field. Can this case be legally counted as a fraud?

My friend (22F) recently went to a psychologist to get possible ADHD diagnosed. It's a common disorder and typically makes people inattentive, and indecisive. It's also common for them to be easily confused in stressful situations. 

Now, here is the funny part. She called the clinic to book an appointment with Doctor X (psychiatrist) but the clinic made her appointment with Doctor Y (psychologist) without even informing her. She was upset, but I understand that the clinic might know which option is better for her. Still, they should have informed.

When the friend reached the clinic, they asked her to fill out the form in the waiting room. Soon the place became loud and noisy (stresses and distracting factors in her situation and she has informed Doc Y about this). But the doctor just went MIA. She came to check for a few seconds and spent the rest of her time gossiping.

So basically, this was not a session and the patient was literally being forced to work in situations where they can't normally function. Was the doctor doing a test? Was she observing? Nope, nothing.

My friend has to fill some questionnaire forms. They took around two hours, and then she submitted them. The doc didn't discuss those questions (because they tend to be very subjective and can't be taken as a sole deciding factor). Doc Y just asked my friend to come after three days.

Three days later, she called to re-schedule the appointment for some reason don't the doctor now casually said that they only need ten mins to discuss things so they can even do it on a call. 

That's all.

This is all the diagnosis she did. 

Not only this sounds extremely unethical (some highly professional therapists take up to 30+ hours to draw a proper conclusion in such cases) but it straight up looks like a fraud. The clinic has no basic understanding of psychology, the therapist looks jhola chaap. They literally have "BEST CLINIC" or something in their maps profile.

Every critical review under that profile is either marked as fake or paranoid by the clinic. Some of the positive reviews are literally copy pasted twice by different accounts, and nearly all the praises look far from genuine.

I know the red flags are so obvious here, but my friend was probably already exhausted trying to decide on which place to choose so she did this weird mistake. What are her options now? Can I file a legal case in her stead?