SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Online scam ordeal
DATE: 2023-08-13
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/15ptlv8/online_scam_ordeal/

--- POST TEXT ---

So about a year ago my sister got into an online scam and ended up losing about ₹ 1 lakh. Needless to say, there was a great deal of trauma that she had gone through because of that. Going to the cyber crime department was of no use and the entire experience was an ordeal we decided to stop going through. Towards the end we thought that it wasn't worth it to go through all of that and for the sake of our mental health we gave in. 

There was another person involved with her in this scam. Though the transactions were done from my sister's account itself, she had also done it under the other person's influence (as she is older than my sister) and also she kept convincing my sister of the authenticity of this but was shocked later to find out it was a scam all along. 

We decided to give it up and initially the other person said that she's in this with her and she'll pay half the amount which is only fair considering that they both were in this together. It has been 10 months and even after telling her to pay the money in every way possible(directly, indirectly, emotionally etc) she has only paid half the amount.
She is going to the US for further studies and whenever we bring up the subject of the money she never gives a straight answer, always keeps beating around the bush saying that "Oh my US rent is so high, there are no wardrobes in my room I've to go and get those sorted, it is so difficult to pack everything and leave home" etc etc and keeps giving useless advice to my sister for her career which we never asked for. 
She had promised that she'll pay the money in August since that's when she'll be leaving for the US. We can clearly see that her parents have a lot of money but she's just not giving the money back. 

We have gone through a lot mentally this past year because of this incident and believe it is only fair for us to expect this out of her. The money lost was my sister's hard earned money which she had saved when she had just started her career. 

Please, any advice on how we can go about this is appreciated. We don't really want to take the legal path since she is(or was) a friend but we just want to know our options.
Thank you for reading till the end! 

TL DR : My sister got involved in a scam along with another person and now the other person is refusing to pay half the money.