SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Is this a scam?
DATE: 2024-09-29
SCORE: 32
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1fryepu/is_this_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

The mail goes like:

Subject: Official Court Order Warning

Office Of The Commissioner Of Police Cybercrime Cell/Computer Centre Police Headquarters, Jail Rd, Jahangirabad, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462004

OFFICIAL COURT ORDER

This is to inform you of the attached alleged court order against your Internet IP traffic by the Central Bureau of Investigation, Department of Research and Anal
It is quite unfortunate to turn your official or private Internet to a juvenile pornographic movie cyber. The Central Bureau of Investigation works in partnership with the Police Cybercrime Special Units in handling all complex and sensitive cases of cybercrime, especially when the victims are women and minor children.

Our laboratories are equipped with state of the art spider/crawling digital software and equipment, having forensic capabilities such as extraction of deleted data from hard drives and mobile phones, imaging and hash value calculation, forensic servers and portable forensic tools for on-site examination, facility to extract data from latest Android or IOS as well as Chinese phones. Based on the above, it is extremely difficult for anyvictim to consciously or unconsciously visit juvenile

pornographic sites without

being digitally captured.

More information or clarification on the court order will be made available to you upon receipt of your response within 24 hours; our office operates 24 hours / 7 days. Be assured that serious legal action will be taken against you if you fail to respond to this notice within receipt. 24 hours of

To forewarn is to forearm.

Sincerely, Ritambra Prakash (ACP/CB)
 For Deputy Commissioner Of Police Cybercrime Cell/Computer Centre Police Headquarters Madhya Pradesh
---------------------------------------------------------------------

From my side I didn't visit any of this websites and I am NOT into those things. 
Is this a scam?