SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: The Knowledge Academy - FAKE school
DATE: 2023-12-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/18mi4gb/the_knowledge_academy_fake_school/

--- POST TEXT ---

This place is one of the highest level scams I have seen in some time. I’d say I’m pretty competent and smart when it comes to buying anything online, but this place got me for $1500 in October. 

They state they are an accredited institute and have alleged offices in almost every city, but i went to the one here in my province and it was EMPTY. If you google them there are fake Reddit comments and reviews talking about how it’s legit (i saw them and didn’t investigate further into the profiles and that’s what got it) 

Let’s say you want to do any type of course, degree or certificate. I wanted to do 3 business certificate programs and filled out the online form at like 9PM eastern time. No joke, within 5 minutes i get a call from a salesperson. I currently work in sales and frankly never find myself falling for shit but this guy got me. Super smooth talking, tells you everything you want to hear and pushes HARD that the price they give you is only for today’s deal and they can’t hold it. 

Offered me the course for 1/4 of what anyone else would and stated they can throw in 2 additional certifications. 

Paid $2500 same day and sales guy emailed me the receipt from his email (red flag) and sends my login details. He then proceeded to call me every morning to ask if i had logged in yet. 

The courses itself are all AI generates nonsense. Spelling mistakes, exams are insanely simple and the “professors” are non existent. This is when i did some deep research and found other similar reviews that it is a scam. People said the salespeople called them 5-6 times a day until they bought, once they “completed” the course they never give you access to the exam and they NEVER give you a refund. 

I also don’t mean this in any racist way, but every single employee at the company is Indian. This place is like a call center operation but super scaled up with good scam artists. Sales people all speak perfect English, but once you gotta deal with anyone else they call you from call centers (can hear in the background) Fake LinkedIn profiles, pictures, online presences and all look very legit when you look them up. 

I asked for a refund immediately after opening the course, sales person said ya no problem I’ll escalate it for you. Refused to give anyone’s info. 2 days later get a call from someone saying they are legit and they won’t give me a refund. Was sending daily emails, all ignored or simply refusing any type of refund. They have a written policy that to cancel a course you have to pay a 100% fee. 

Had to file a dispute with my credit card company, which then led to them harrasing me even more. Getting calls about my credit card dispute saying oh tell the bank to cancel the dispute and we’ll offer you a refund and give you your course for free still. When I stopped answering calls they would email me saying they tried to call me and would like to schedule a call back. I said I’m only communicating over email and they would say things like “We can only discuss refunds over the phone”. After months my credit card company finally gave me my money back. 

This company pays a LOT for advertising. Google any course and they are first page result with google ads, along with other social media’s. I hope this post can serve as a warning and save even 1 person from these fuckers. 

https://www.theknowledgeacademy.com/ca/