SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: The Customer Care Scam
DATE: 2024-04-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bvfyrx/the_customer_care_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don't know guys if you know about this or not but recently i encountered new kind of scam. 

"The Customer Care Scam" 
You might have faced issue with the delivery guys right. Sometimes Amazon or Flipkart shows that your item has been delivered but in reality it never reached you. 
You see this and realise delivery guy is scamming you by keeping that item to himself. In that moment you decide to call the customer care to complaint about your grievances (I have just taken an example of delivery guy, there can be many other instances where you contact customer care)

Till here everything is fine. This next step is very crucial. Sometimes you can find the number to contact customer care in the app itself but majority of times we usually do a simple google search and whichever number comes first we just copy paste in our dialer and call the customer care. 

I don't know what kind of algorithm google is following for its searches but the thing is, the number which is on top of the search is not always the genuine number. 

Once you call that number you will hear customer care like talk, it will be very hard for you to distinguish. They will ask you genuine questions like whats your tracking ID(if its an parcel), whats your Name Number and all the usual jargen. 

Sometimes they send you links so that you file a complaint via that link, sometimes its a WhatsApp msg, sometimes its an Play Store app. Which is making it very hard to trust anything now. 

I know many of you consider yourself smart and think it is so obvious how can people fall for this. Even i used to think that but i almost fell for it. At the very last moment i realised this can't be right, something is wrong. This is very dangerous because you are not expecting that customer care will be doing something wrong. 

Lets say your TV stopped working and you searched sony, samsung etc customer care support and called thay number. Here, you are not expecting that someone is trying to scam you because you were just asking for your TV. Now if they tell you to download an app and file a complaint via that app after filling some details, most likely you will do it. 

*SOLUTION*
Simple solution is that never trust google search. Always go to official site and from there get the customer support number. 

And you guys are obviously smart enough to know that never share your OTP, say that goes without saying.