SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: In dire need of help and support.
DATE: 2023-05-06
SCORE: 109
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/139buy5/in_dire_need_of_help_and_support/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I just wanted to share my story

It was Nov, 22 when me and my family went to meet this prospective guy and his family.

I had a feeling that they're hiding something, but my family was convinced that they have found the perfect family for their princess.

According to them, they are modern, broad minded, the guy earns 80k per month, comes from a well educated family... Blah blah blah. I, on the other hand was not at all convinced.

I tried my best to convince my family that there's something off about them. But I couldn't prove it. Was upset, depressed, had episodes of self harm too but no luck. 

Feb, 23 got married to this person. He looked and behaved weirdly. I didn't even feel like going near him. Even his presence near me would make me uncomfortable. I'd start feeling these burning kind of sensation in the whole body and all sweaty and nervous, as if I am about to jump off a cliff.

My family also noticed, what I have been talking about since the beginning. 

They cried during vidaai, after realising what has happened. There went 30 lakhs in disappointment.

I reached here, didn't even get off and the first taunt on saree, MIL got angry because my heels were exposed. Because I was walking straight. Because I brought a small trolley bag with me. Because I was smiling during the wedding. The endless taunts and complaints.

I was there for 5 days and was humiliated, scolded for sitting straight and for keeping my head up or for even looking up. My parents were contacted on phone and humiliated.

After all this, the guy would expect me to satisfy him at night, which I always refused by stating that I am uncomfortable, I need time. His words- oh! But we're married now. 

And in day time, treated me like shit. Would make fun of my physical features, which again I clearly told him in the beginning that I am sensitive about it.

This person is not even capable of lifting a glass. A GLASS!! 

My family came on the fifth day to take me home and this guy and his family took me to temple at two in the afternoon, upon their arrival. My family was kept waiting outside in the scorching heat. 

After coming back, FIL says, "we know you're here... But it's fine, you can go now as we have rights over her now". This lead to heated argument followed by me packing my bags happily. Meanwhile, the guy stayed hidden in room the whole time.

Reached home, was down and felt low for a month. Started working on myself, and became hopeful in April. Had ups and down because they kept calling and harassing for gifts during Holi. Holi went colourless.

In April, made a huge mistake... Resigned and then got stuck in a scam. Lost all my savings and took loan as well. So now family and me... Nil battey sannata.

Now in May, back to these people. Made plans to be out but lack funds.

Oh! And he earns less than 30k.

Need all your blessings, love and support to be out of this.

Love you all. 

So, I wanted to know about what legal help should I take to be out of this and what documents would be required?

P.S. My parents are as shocked and sad as I am and they regret their decision. They are trying everything to bring me out of this but we lack money now. All of ours hope is a job.