SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Friend's mom is about to be scammed in crores.
DATE: 2023-12-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/18la65n/friends_mom_is_about_to_be_scammed_in_crores/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi,
Need urgent advice please.
Especially if you can actually see a solution to this problem.. 🥺

Background: My friend's mum who's retired recently had been contacted by many people in the past 2-3 years and scammed multiple times, in lakhs each time.
She's really sweet so she ends up believing them each time. She just easily trusts and through WhatsApp and Facebook and stuff gets targeted I think. It may also be the prev scammers leaking her contact info to other scammers because she believed them the first time, and somehow she is in contact with these people. 😭

The problem now: Some people have reached out to her promising a role of an official that governs a city/union (I'm removing the specifics here for anonymity) and asked her to send them a large amount of money, and even told her to raise funds through people she knows and she IS TRYING TO DO THIS ALREADY. This same thing happened to her before in the form of an admissions scam and she + a few people she roped in already lost the money cause the guy disappeared after getting it..

-We just uncovered all these scams now by asking her to tell us everything. We tried speaking to her and showing her this one is also fake and a whole scam, but she refuses to believe it. 
-We showed her how the current official (in that apparently offered role) has spent 30 years in politics and social service and then only took the role, and there's no way she will even be eligible for this role itself and it's unfathomable but she refuses to listen. 
- They sent her a contract, that looks completely fake. It's a hugeeee amount, we're worried she will sign this + then be duped into signing something that can actually be legally binding after this. She has already sent her aadhar and pan and such to these scammers.
We tried telling her the so called contract is a one page fake typed up random document but she's refusing to believe it and is saying it's real.

What do we do! Does anyone know any options in such a scam? 

My friend is super stressed out and I'm worried about this aunty getting herself into more trouble, in crores now. Any help is appreciated! 🥺

Thanks in advance 🥺