SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Bangalore flat hunting rant
DATE: 2023-07-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/14x033r/bangalore_flat_hunting_rant/

--- POST TEXT ---

Even after going through brokers, websites like housing.com, 99acres. It seems that bangalore has somewhat exhausted it’s living options in bellandur, koramangala, hsr belt.
I came here last year during lockdown and fell in love with the weather and don’t want to leave yet. But as a non-kannadiga I also feel, bangalore is pretty over crowded now.

I had been living in a 2bhk in koramangala for just 15k and now the owner wants to rebuild his house (pretty sure he wants to increase rent like crazy just doesn’t want me to stay as it probably is very cheap)

Now coming to new flat hunting, I initially thought of getting a 3bhk, and when I called brokers, a few of them laughed at me when I told them my budget was 30k. So I asked them what should it be, they told hsr atleast think 60k saar, that too semi furnished.

I ended up paying token for a decent 3bhk at 45, to be then replaced by a family because the owner wanted a family. 

Then again I found a pretty sweet flat at 50k, this time, since it was a little on the higher side, I go back home to consult friends and alas within half an hour, the flat is booked.

I posted for a third flatmate in Facebook (the flat cost 45k for 3bhk), and I had put up a video of the room where there were a few items on table left by broker. In the evening, the flat was booked by someone else as owner didn’t want bachelors. Next day I see the same flat listing at 55k because he put up the exact picture of the table with the same items on them I called them to confirm if it wasn’t a scam. So within a day, the owner decided to increase the rent by 10k.

It’s been a really exhausting experience with a broker even giving me a pep talk about how I should compromise and take up whatever I get since I’m a bachelor and anyways I won’t stay beyond a year out here and will move out. Despite giving such high brokerage I don’t think the brokers are on our side anymore.

Bangalore is facing a supply demand gap.
Be it flats, water, pubs without stag entry, a lot many things but that’s a separate rant altogether.

Just that the quality of lifestyle has significantly downgraded from last year due to this supply demand gap.