SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I went to town to buy a deep fryer for mothers-day...
DATE: 2023-04-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/12vwkpx/i_went_to_town_to_buy_a_deep_fryer_for_mothersday/

--- POST TEXT ---

I set up a deal and arrived with plenty of time to spare. I purchased the fryer from a private listing, and it went extremely smoothly. 

While I was parked, I saw a pretty girl walking across the road... so I yelled out asking if she was 'Rachael' or something. She was confused of course, because she is not... and this is where the game begins.

"Oh I thought you were my friend, you look just like her." I pretending to be embarrassed and surprised. She, surprised but not put off at all...

Talked about what we do and where we're from. After which they asked if I was interested in purchasing some downers (Fentanyl)... (Drugs).. (more potent than heroin). I wasn't interested. I've never seriously considered taking downers. but then proceeded to brag about how cool I am, and that I have actually tried hard drugs before, in the form of Methamphetamine.

She perked up at my mentioning this, and asked if she could get in the car. 

So she's a drug dealer... but a pretty one. She hops in. 

Quotes me some amounts and prices etc... I wasn't super interested in the drugs, maybe somewhat... I asked if she'd be able to stick around and 'partake', and her agreeing to this was the only reason I did it.

I already had the cash I needed. We drove to the address, I parked discreetly, and she left her phone in the car as she went to the house... She was in there for like an hour or so... I waited lol. Came out and she said they didn't have all of it, and we needed to go somewhere else. So we did... I don't know why I did.

This time I was waiting for like 2 hours until Eventually I saw a guy come out to walk past me. I handed him money, asked them to go fetch the blonde... They obliged.

Apparently he just announced the situation as he entered the house and embarrassed the girl, let's finally name her, Kas.

They came out and she got in the front and the guy got in the back lol... Wasn't expecting this... 

She said she needs to go do a trade real quick, and directed me to another location to pick up some items. (likely stolen goods I understand now)... As Kas and I wait in the car for the guy, she tells me he sucks dick and I joke I should ask him for a bj. He gets in the car and Kas tells him I want a bj... lol I decline.

The guy apparently owed her money and was paying with merch... His merch was trash tho, and so they decided to get some new stuff. I was unaware of this at the time lol. I was literally only thinking about how she kept saying right after the next stop we can chill together. So they made me drive them to a store and boosted some stuff, I waited in the car, I was unaware of what they were doing until they got back and discussed how the alarm went off but Kas stayed to argue to distract, while the guy left. I was now an accessory to a robbery, and this was not going to be the last time these criminal strangers I decided to hangout with tonight, for cockheaded reasons, would put me into situations where I could have been arrested/charged with a potentially life-altering crime. I am embarrassed to point out that I wasn't just risking accessory to shoplifting, or whatever, but any crime involving my vehicle put us at risk of schedule 1 drug charges. Trafficking depending how much she has.

I'm just thinking about how sweet my hair looks in the rear-view. Damn. No wonder she wants to hangout with me.

After that, we went back to that second location so she could trade the goods.. or whatever. I really wasn't sure what she was doing or what it always took so long, just figured she was taking a downer and softlocking... But at this point I was in for a penny, already waited a long time. So another half hour or longer, the guy comes out, and he asks if I want a blowjob. Because she said I wanted one. lol I decline again. He tells me she's not actually a 'drug dealer', and she will always take forever wherever we go. She's not a good person, and prob won't come back out now.

I go knock on the door, because this time she said if she took too long I could do that. Someone on the other side asks who it is and I just say my name... Kas and an older woman open the door, Kas tells me she'll be right there... she promises lol. 15 mins later she's back in my car. Now she is noticeably more subdued. Basically, she trades stolen shit for drugs and then takes a hit of fet and konks down for a while. Didn't want to konk out with a stranger (mark) like me I spoze.

Now it's just us two. We find a spot and smoke some bitch (meth). I would later find out that even this first toke, she laced with some Fet... Earlier she had mentioned that if I'd never done downers before, she wouldn't even give it to me if I asked for it. Then she slips it to me...

We were supposed to go to her place now, but we went there (where she claimed her spot was) and she claims the lights in her apartment are on, sketching her out that it's her ex... lol ok. So we wander

We drive around and find some wifi and watch some stuff on her new phone, she seemed quite proud of. We walk around the nice buildings downtown. It was a nice time and, tbh it really messes with my head that we seemed to have almost greatish chemistry. I know... probably just seemed that way because of the mind-altering, right? Maybe. Or maybe I'm just a natural born sucker.

She chats up random people (fellow criminals) as we walk around, until she gets one to let us come up to chill... I wasn't really up for it, but had limited room for debate in front of the people I was not interested in interacting with. They weren't physically threatening. One of them had suffered a stroke. The other was bordering on elderly. The apartment looked like it belonged to Beetle Juice. 

Why didn't I leave? Why did I put up with all this bs? The entire floor was covered in old clothes and garbage and various other unmentionable disease-ridden, maggot infested, piles of moist dampness, nested within a cloud of fruitflies that grows exponentially thicker the closer you get to the kitchen, where the walls and ceilings were covered in flies. If I wasn't high on both: meth (a drug I hadn't had in over 6 years). As well as Fentanyl, the most powerful and potent form of a type of drug I've never even tried before. 

The first few fet hits... I was slipped. Had no idea I was doing it at all, let alone rather large fractions of each hit apparently. Kas mentioned it at one point and laughed. I wasn't sure it was that funny but I was okay, so I laughed.....

We smoke and talk and smoke on the cleanest (least vomit inducing) sections of the smallish "living room" (more like a fucking dying room). And it seems all is well. I'd rather be alone with Kas in a clean room, but she seems to be enjoying my company still I think... Getting to know her is the goal at this point anyway. The social pressure to conform was probably a lot, and I wasn't interested in resisting it.

She passes out. And very very slowly folded in half at the waist on the edge of the bed, so her face was basically between her ankles. I stopped her half way the first time and gently pressed her shoulders, hoping to have her laying on the bed in a more natural way. She woke up, confused, and angry. So I'm not touching her like that again, even though I was trying to help. The others laugh and said not to help her, she just does that... 

So she was folded like that for a while, while the handicapped one tries to convince me to deposit some cheques for him and he'll pay me extra, because some excuse I can't even remember like he doesn't have a bank right now. I donno. I was mega-super-high at this point. My head was completely spinning from the fet, and my inhibitions were non-existent from the meth. One million confidence. "I don't even need to look at those cheques, I'm in!". We leave the old man, asleep on a chair, and Kas, still folded over awkwardly passed out. I grab the scraps of tinfoil she's left around her "supposedly my drugs", before we leave.

We proceed to drive around... Looking for a pen, so he can "cosign" the "cheques". Ended up picking up Ken, a real asshole with a heart of gold. Before I entered a gas station and asked to borrow one. After going through MacDonald drive through, to ask for a pen... 

We arrive at my bank, which had a message on the ATM, "no envelopes, no folded paper" so it saved me from the scam here. I was like "no can't do it here." Even though Dampy was still trying to get me to do it. We then proceed on the most pointless fucking journey of all time, driving from bank to bank at 3:30 am, looking for an ATM that we can put the checks into. 

Honestly I can't even believe how stupid this is. I have mentioned many embarrassing moments, and will many more, but this one is just so fucking simple and basic and stupid. There is no way this scam should have worked on me. I did drive a "hard bargain" I guess, and only gave him 100 for what he claimed was worth like 300. I did withdraw 250 tho, just in case... but also he literally hit the buttons on my bank machine. I have to keep blaming the drugs for me not reacting appropriately. There is no way I would have done any of this otherwise...

The banks must have caught onto this scam, because they all prevented me from doing it in some way. Until I just agreed to loan him the hundred and I can deposit them later. At this point, it was actually mostly to get them to stop insisting, so we can go back and check on Kas, who was left alone for way too long at this point. An hour or more.

We arrive back and as we enter the apartment, Kas is right up in our grills! All of the fet and meth is gone, and so is her new phone. She literally got it that day apparently and didn't even get to recharge it once, and never put the sim in. She was blaming me, and blaming Dampy, but the old man who we left here, who was gone, was not a suspect apparently.. 

She was flying off the handle. Absolutely off the chain. Until I produce, for her, the foil I saved, which seemed to quell her suspicion of me entirely. So she was really going hard on Dampy about the phone being missing now. Which nobody seemed to know for sure if it was in the apartment, or the car. Not even Kas. But she was straight up attacking poor Dampy at this point. Goin' nuts. Pissed about her phone, but also saying she was pissed about him scamming me, which she called out right away when I told her where we went lmao. She said I was a nice guy, and that she had vouched for Dampy, to me, so that I would enter to begin with. So that pissed her off more than the phone, seemingly..

She was also just generally pissed about being left alone like that in such a position, of course. Apparently the older guy didn't lock the door when he left her there.

A lot of yelling and arguing ensued, for a long time. Around in circles we went, with dampy in the middle, admitting he scammed me and apologizing to my face in one breath, only to turn to Kas in the next to claim he didn't do anything wrong at all, and there's nothing to apologize for.

Some hours, puffs, and a lot of searching around this disgusting place for a phone that I know isn't there later. After sun-rise we are leaving that hell-hole, and apparently driving Dampy someplace far away... Kas is basically in battle commander mode at this moment (if your commander was assaulting you all the time, and your name is Dampy), and she is just telling us what to do basically. So we get in the car and drive while they literally physically fight as more circular arguments for a long time. With cycles of denial, repent, regret, and then denial again...

Why are we still driving? We left town a long time ago. Kas isn't telling us where we are going, and just gives one direction at a time. She's become less animated, but now insists that when we arrive at our destination, Dampy is going to be deaded. (claims she buried a weapon)... I literally don't believe her, and continue driving. Unsure why, or what the point is? Beyond maybe kind of scaring Dampy into an even more submissive form?

We come to a small town where we are directed to a small train-yard-type place. She tells me to just search the car for the phone, while she walks down the tracks with Dampy. Now, I never believed she was going to kill him, and neither did he. Because he had many opportunities to just get out of the car and flag someone down or something. But I was pretty sure if scaring the guy a little was the real true purpose of this journey. (likely a swap point for something illicit, but not certain.)

I later learn that she was questioning him about the series of events from the night before as they walked, but never learned what else they did if anything. He apparently told her I suggested she ripped me off. Which she did do, but I still didn't suggest it in such a way. These people have a way of twisting the truth... As well as telling accusatory lies with no evidence, while ignoring anything counter.

They came back to the car, and argued some more, then we left. By this point I was quite parched indeed. But we still had a long drive from wherever this is to where we came from.

Stopped at a Tim Horton's. Ordered 2 donuts and some chocolate thing with whip cream on top. They give us 1 donut and extra whip drink thing. 7.50. We say that we asked for 2 donuts, not extra whip. The East Indian gentleman behind the counter simply denies that's what we ordered, and refuses to hand over the other donut. Literally insisting the order is good, and to drive on. My guess for their motivation; If they gave us the donut, they would have to give us the extra whip for free because we didn't ask for it, or make an entirely new beverage, just to give us a little less whip... (which it looks basically the same wither way)

Kas was yelling, I was pointing out how they are wasting time and money with the drive-thru line up by simply not giving us like a 20 cent discount on the second donut, and letting it go. A white lady finally came and grabbed the donuts, and yelled at me to never come back to Timmies again. Which I would never go unless someone else asked me to go... And there are like 8 timmies in every town so who cares lol... Karen? Or maybe totally reasonable response to several loud and ignant "methheads".

I think we went back to the gross aptmnt to look for the phone some more? Dampy hit some Fet and turned retarded. Kas decided it'd be fun to dye her hair. The bathroom needed to be cleaned first though, and Dampy was too stoned to help, so we left. Another ordeal happens where we have to go back up for cigs and I barely make it back in the door. She yells at me from the ground where they are at. They aren't there, but I find them and throw them down. She seemed quite pleased. And impressed with my speedy door catching skills. Then we went to the park, and she used the bathroom there to dye her hair. I had to help do the back and top. It was really sort of intimate. She said it felt really nice.. and kept falling asleep. If we weren't still high and tired af, it would have been a better bonding moment.

After that we went to Harveys to grab some flurries, and so she could finish her dying procedure in their bathroom. She was in there a long time, so I decided to kick the door, to wake her up in case she fell asleep standing up again. She didn't like that at all. lol. Was definitely a misjudgement on my part. Way too loud. She def doesn't like being spooked, gets her mad...

She seemed to get over it. And I decided to see if she wanted to go to my place out of town with me, surprisingly she seemed pretty interested in going. She just said we need to go get some clothes in case we stay more than a day. We pick up some guy on the way, and he is nice and talkative. No idea if he is the one that stole my wallet or not, but maybe? At this point I don't think I noticed it missing. Anyway, on our way to where we were gonna drop him off, we stopped so she could do whatever it is she does for way longer than necessary. It is blatantly disrespectful af to make people wait so long. In for a penny though... I donno. I just kept on thinking of how nice it would be to sit in a clean quiet place with her to actually interact meaningfully, after we both got some much needed rest... I think, maybe this was very delusional thinking..

She took so long the talkative one left to walk it on his own. A while later she comes back, and tells me she heard her "X" (still not sure how on or off they were) overdosed the night before, behind a local church. At the time I didn't question this at all. It was obvious that she wasn't processing this news yet. It seemed to drag down the mood, and she became blunt and rude, and while she was always bossy, which I don't mind tbh... she became straight up demanding and commanding while being rude as hell for it. I think she was trying to control it, but this was the beginning of the end. And at the time I was thinking I should definitely cancel the trip to my place so she can deal with this... I tried to, but if she actually was excited to go this might depress her even more? Make her feel ditched... by a guy who was like a loyal dog at that. So I decided it had to be her decision... Was the wrong call for sure.

It does seem like a major coincidence that this happened the same night I met Kas. Retrospectively I've begun wondering if I should have been questioning a lot more things I was initially taking at face value: Why does it take her so long every time, while she has friends all around, and often in the car with me. Almost like they were seeing if I fell asleep to take my personal items and cargo... Or maybe even waiting for an opportunity to get their hands on my car? Or like the fight between her and dampy, whether that was staged so I would like gain more trust for Kas and she could manipulate me even easier?... Where did we actually drive earlier, and where did they walk to?... Were they in all of this together? Did they stage this whole phone drama for some 4D chess maneuver on me? Did they slip me the Fet earlier in an attempt to knock me out? Or make me stupid and confused? Should I be more angry about it than I am? (I think there is some credence to my hypothesis that they wanted to get in the car when I wasn't there, or alert, because when I told Kas I needed to use the bathroom shortly after we met, I suggested I could just walk instead of driving, and for some reason she seemed to think that was a great idea...

We went to another location involving a lot of insulting of me and my driving, coming from Kas, who cannot drive, yet becomes the biggest backseat driver of all time when they are coming down, or in a mood, or whatever has got her animated... This location was pointless, nobody came, but she did change clothes in the back seat. I didn't look. Probably would have gotten a punch to the eye. 

Then we went back to a place in the middle of town, the place where I first saw her, and probably one of the least discreet locations yet. I don't know why I wasn't asking where all the dope I bought was.. or noticing my wallet was likely already gone.. Or why I can't just go in with her this time.. She was moody I guess and every time I asked a question, I had to choose wisely, because she will snap every time, and she will only answer so many... I am cutting her a tremendous amount of slack because of what she told me earlier. I am having many second thoughts, as she reaches for my charging phone at 4% and asks if she can use it to send a text. I donno why I didn't stop her from walking away with it. At this moment though, I really didn't have any doubts if I could trust her. I trusted her 100% at this point probably...

She said she would literally be 10 mins this time. Reassured me again and again. But 2... maybe 3 hours rolled by, and I began to wonder if I had made some mistakes... When she finally appeared, but she wasn't alone of course...

She arrived with her sister in law apparently, and some guy came over very indiscreetly to join them. They walked from the side of my car around the the back of the closed store I was parked in front of. No idea what they were doing or talking about. I just wanted to go, my patience was so close to gone..

I am looking for my wallet in the car, I look up and there is a fucking police squad car, parked DIRECTLY in-front of mine so I cannot leave. I look around and they are asking for the guy who came over, uninvited... The cop literally saw him, and he has a warrant. There was a mini-struggle, resulting in the perp being slammed front-first onto the hood of my car. Exactly like you would see in a movie-picture show. It was completely insane. I was just sitting here for hours, dying and going insane, then all of a sudden I am trapped by cops while a dude is being booked on top of my hood! (Good thing I drive a 90s era volvo. The hood is SOLID, and the dude got hurt bad, not my car)

When the guy had his drugs taken and was put in the squad car. The cop came to talk to the rest of us... the other girl outside the passenger, Kas in the passenger, and me in the driver seat. The moment I looked up and saw the cop was scary, the moment another cop pulled up was equally intimidating, and then the moment a random dog-walker came out from behind the squad car on the side-walk and I thought it was a drug sniffer for a split-second where my heart was pounding out of my asshole.. but the moment the cop tried to claim that where that criminal dude came from was out of my vehicle's back-door, which would give them immediate cause to search, I was in absolute fight or flight mode.. I have no idea how many drugs are in me or the car at this point, or where tf they are. If they choose to believe he came from this car, it's over. I lose my car, I will be charged with something substantial because of the type of drugs. But the cop was actually easily convinced he was never in the car. The store's security camera might have backed us up, which we mentioned...

They had to run us for warrants, and I asked if they wanted my license, they said no and just asked for my name. Which I then realized was extremely lucky, because now I realize my wallet is straight up missing... No more warrants on anybody, we are cleared to go. Before we leave the other girl literally throws drugs into the car to Kas... Every time Kas has tried to let someone in the car I don't argue, but this time she could see on my face, I was probably more angry than her, so we didn't let the other girl in the backseat as I floored it to do a 180 onto the street as soon as the cops left. 

I didn't realize my adrenaline was still pumping, and I was pissed, and afraid, but relived. Kas was less than impressed with my attitude, driving, and general behavior at this point. We were both coming down most likely, I was out of patience, waiting, before the cops arrived, and that really pushed my patience beyond the brink I guess. Because when the cops were there, Kas was yelling at them, and I told her to shut up. Which was not as mean as many things she said to me, but the way I said it and the timing, and the fact she was just trying to help me with what she was saying (The way she was yelling, I don't think was helping, but still, she was trying...)

So given that situation forcing me to make an ass out of myself, I felt very awkward for the rest of the day. I prob should have tried taking another hit and just relaxing at this point. Maybe go our separate ways... if only for now who knows. But whenever I thought about dropping her off, I'd think about how I'd never find her again now that both our cellphones are mia... I believed I could still turn this around, despite the negative atmosphere forming around us. Besides... She has my cellphone, right? I asked her for it several times and she just gets angry. I noticed she got a tablet and shitty broken phone when she was gone... and now my phone is gone. She was telling me that she was trying to get it back... I believed her, and I believed that she must have lost it accidentally or past out and it was stolen.

But now I believe it is more likely that she started off with me as just another ignorant and stupid mark that she can drug and scam on with her criminal friends. But I was slowly winning her over with my crystal charm, (Meth gives a lotta confidence... if I had this level of confidence in my social skills my whole life, I'd be unstoppable.) During most of the second day she seemed to be genuinely enjoying the time spent with me. After I rescued her smokes earlier she seemed open to the idea that I wasn't useless after all... But, (unbeknownst to me at the time) whenever I made her mad, she would likely end up using it as justification for taking something of mine. She earned my trust to be around my stuff relatively unguarded... I honestly don't know when I lost the wallet. If I wasn't high and stuff it wouldn't have happened. But it's like... Why take the whole fucking wallet? Why not just take the cash? Everything else is of no value to anyone else, right? Just have some mercy, jeez...

So now I am apparently waiting for her to hear back from someone at that other place, so I can get my phone back? But we are across town using free wifi... Everytime I ask her anything it's futile except for making her lash out...

At this point I am in a negative headspace, and spiraling in cycles of depression and doubt in all things. I am unable to be funny or positive or entertaining at this point, and it is an uphill battle on a doomed mission.

I am trapped here without my wallet or phone, and the one person I am relying on to get at least one of them back, seems to either have already turned on me, or is doing so rapidly... A part of me believes she was playing me every single second. There was no way she would go with me to my village lol, she just wanted to keep me wrapped around her finger in the city until I was wrung dry by her and the minions... 

But looking back, there seemed to be at least a few hours where I was on the trajectory I so desperately desired, and had been imagining since I saw her... I was actually going to be heading back with the girl who I had no control over my saying something to. I just had to... it seemed almost like some kind of fate, I donno. 

I know people say it's weird to look at complete strangers like that, but the women who read romance novels seem to like it... I just think a combination of nature and nurture causes men to choose a partner in different ways from one another... Some men do sort of "imprint" on women, and for me it's not dangerous for anybody but me apparently. I've always had a problem with women where I don't feel anything for months, sometimes years, and don't feel confident or motivated enough to really "try" either. Unfortunately for me, when I (for lack of better term) "imprint" on an individual, it can be difficult for me to act normal and casual and fun. I find it difficult to be myself, and to focus, because so much of my concentration is centered on holding back the tsunami of hormones and territorial emotion I've had locked up for who knows how long. 

I've pretty much come to terms with the fact that this is exactly what stalkers are made of. People who imprint as easily as me, but become more obsessed, and don't even try to temper it from becoming an unhealthy obsession, are more likely to do harm in the form of all that stalkerish behavior pushed to the extremes... 

We drive around, we park, we find wifi, repeat... I think she was just trying to score more drugs for her... But at the time I believed we were waiting to get the phone, so when I'd notice she had knodded off, I kept waking her up, and she was getting right pissed about it.

She left the car, and encouraged me to come with, despite we have been sitting in relative silence, only broken by my asking about the situation followed by an annoyed Kas basically telling me to shut up and/or insulting me... (looking back, not sure if she even had a motivation for me to stay besides the car itself... considering they already took all my money, and drugs...) 

So I donno, it's possible she felt bad about that and was legit trying to get it back... Or maybe she just liked having the ride? But she knew I wanted to go back to my ol sickly cat, and refused to update me at all on my phone. (At this point she could have told me she wasn't getting it back tonight so I could just go now... Instead I stick around until I run completely out of patience as we accomplish nothing that will help my situation.

A man behind us taking cigarettes out of a street ashtray... She asks what he's doing, I tell her while chuckling because it's kind of gross and funny. She asks where they went. I say I donno. And she just snaps! I am a useless moron for not knowing where he went? I didn't realize she was being genuinely paranoid this whole time. I did see the direction he went in, I just didn't see where he ultimately ended up, because it was dark. I tell her don't worry because I did see him go to the right, down the sidewalk. She doesn't listen and demands I start the car and go right now, followed by insults. (They can sting quite a bit... This person was defending me multiple times earlier today and vouching for me to her criminals... Now I am a worthless slug I guess?)

I refused to go, because my patience was getting thinner and I felt like it was best we try to hash it out calmly if possible. My intention was to deescalate. She threatened to leave if I didn't start the car and leave right this second. I took the keys out of the ignition and turned to her to try and look her in the eyes to talk. If she was so uninterested in hanging out now, or helping me, that a single disobeyed order was enough to have her walk away now? I knew I was totally screwed. I knew talking to her wasn't helping, but I was still in a bad state of mind, and tired af, and I just kept pushing it. I couldn't let it go and leave it be.

So we are arguing badly while driving now. Probably over my phone and the fact I am going to have to abandon it, and prob never see Kas again, not that it seemed like she cared, and not that I ever should have... Let alone still. She tells me to pull over and let her out in motel parking lot. She gets out, and I am prepared to let her go. But when I see her fading into the darkness I feel myself moving to follow her. I had to just try one last time, because I needed her to know that I care. As sad as that is. That I understood she was going through a lot, and that I was not being patient enough as well. But whenever I opened my mouth to speak she would as well, and spit out like 2 separate and irrelevant complaints against me for every word I uttered. Just drowning out my words, and thoughts completely. I was totally flustered. She was sitting on the steps to an old building, and I was across the street slowly getting closer. She told me to stop approaching and some other stuff I forget. All I managed the focus to muster before I walked away was "I'm just afraid that I'm never going to see you again." And went back to my car to leave... As I rounded the corner I heard her say "just give me a minute alone and maybe I'll come back to your car." And I sort of wished I hadn't heard that, so I would have just left...

Instead that's all I was thinking about, how my words and emotion seemed to actually sway her. Then I thought about how long I might be waiting here, and how I might do that only to discover she took off anyway. Just to treat me like her bitch one last time. So instead I drove the car around the block to park in front of her... and she was pissed... I went to drive away, but then remembered her saying she felt like killing herself not long before this, as a part of one of our arguments, where she uses her "current situation" as a license to treat me like I am less than human waste. (still pending on how true her tragic loss is, but I think it's real. I will check the obits moving forward... but seemed real.)

At this point I am trying to get out the stuff I wanted to say earlier, with similar levels of no success. She made fun of me for saying I wanted to kiss her after the cop incident, where I was losing my shit, and said somethings really dumb. She said she would never kiss me, and was never interested. I am just a womanizer, trying to take her out of town while just expecting to get laid... (I would never go through this much just to get laid. I would at least always want to try out a "normal relationship" with the girl I'm interested in at the time.) It's true I did have some sexual thoughts about her from time to time, and wanted to turn around when she was changing, I am only human after all. But I always treated her with complete respect in that way. (Plus, Kas literally fell asleep right beside me like dozens of times, I never made a move or did anything untoward in any way. I'd just piss her off by waking her up... It's like, girl, you really expect me just to wait it out while you sleep lol.

She said I was moving too fast and coming on too strong. Which was all true. I only knew her a day and a half at this point, and I'd said some really non-smooth things at points. If I wasn't on drugs I'm not normally on I wouldn't have embarrassed myself in such cringe ways.. I'm sure... but she also accused me of messing with her head and trying to make her care. I don't know if I messed with her head, but I did really want her to feel the same way I did of course... And her telling this to me at least hints toward the possibility that maybe, just maybe, I was more than a complete mark to her, if only briefly... that would be incredibly validating. (next to the alternative possibility, where I am nothing but a stupid ignorant naive mark she took to the cleaners, where her and all her friends are just laughing at me behind my back during the entire wash of an adventure.)

We argued too many things to recall. We shouted. She gets pissed and says "you know I will have no problem putting a few holes in you right now" as she decided to approach. I took a half step back and angled my body, which she then stopped approaching... I told her I was going to give her the phone anyway, so she could keep it, but I had to ask about where all the drugs are I gave her money for. And in response she got very upset... threw the crap phone she likely traded for mine on the sidewalk and said you can have this phone. Then she walked away, as I was out of words, and ideas, and just yelled something along the lines of "kas" "pleas" "talk" "kaas". (I am pretty sure I heard her say that is not her name. Which I cannot think of a more depressing thought than I actually never even knew her real name, and I actually thought this girl liked me and trusted me and stuff. Truly pathetic)

I lost my wallet, with health card, license, debit with tap, and at least like 150 bucks in cash... probably more.

I lost my phone, which I literally just got like a week ago. I've never lost a phone before in my life.

I gave Kas $90 initially for the first score. Had 100 bucks taken off me by Dampy. another 80 by kas.. I bought her food a few times. I spend half a tank of gas which is like $50... Overall, I lost like $600 and got nothing out of it except this hangover and the weirdest and wildest contained adventures I might have ever had on my own. Like going into it without friends. Just only meeting new people. New and wonderful people...

I hope this isn't the end.