SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: "Civil Lawsuit" Were we scammed? (Sorry for how lengthy this is)
DATE: 2023-09-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/16otdeh/civil_lawsuit_were_we_scammed_sorry_for_how/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: Someone called my saying my mom saying she has an outstanding medical bill that is going to court. She is going to have a lawsuit filed against her. They knew a lot of information about her. We gave them her credit card information because we thought it was real (very sophisticated scam) and we got notice immediately of a fraudulent charge. Was this a real scam? Very detailed information below.

Hello everyone, I am asking for some legal advice for my mother and I. Also just to preface so you can see how I fell into believing this possible scam; My mom has extreme financial difficulties this year and we are just scraping day by day. They somehow found the right prey, lured with the correct information, so we were in their trap. I also don't remember the exact details of everything because I was so anxious and felt extremely rushed in the process, so I hope you all can be understanding. Anywhere you see a question mark is where details get fuzzy for me.

At around 2:30 PM EST, my mom got a phone call from an ADR company (?) called Applegate Financial Services saying that there is a lawsuit case that will precede if she doesn't contact the company. They didn't give any more information via voicemail, so my mother asked me to call the company for her since she was very busy at work.

I called the company and was transferred to a representative. She said she cannot transfer me to the ADR case specialist unless my mother was on the phone and present. I asked if I could merge and have a 3-way phone call, and she said that is fine. I called back with my mother on the phone. The same representative (I believe it was the same lady) transferred us over to an ADR specialist (who's name I forgot, so let's call him Richard).

Richard begins by telling my mom that she has an outstanding medical balance of $1.3k from XYZ Hospital (which is local to us) from 2017. Richard says they sent notices to our address with no response, so the hospital's creditor company is going to escalate this to a lawsuit. They said the company is seeking 35% of my moms salary, they want our car on A loan company, another car on B loan company, and inflating the original due balance. She was going to pay all the court fees, litigation fees, blah blah blah.

At this point, I was very very convinced that this was real. They confirmed my mom's entire social security, they knew both loan companies that we are using to repay our cars, and I was becoming increasingly anxious hearing my mom has another financial burden. 

However, the address they had sent the bill notices to was incorrect. Richard says he is going to call the creditor company and let them know that my mother had no idea she had an outstanding balance if they sent the notices to the wrong address since 2017. My mom and I were on hold for about 10 minutes before Richard returns.

He tells us that the creditor company was very difficult to deal with, but he was able to get them to agree to let my mom pay the original balance because they could see that my mom had a pristine credit score and credit history. At this point, I was very relieved. I translate everything to my mom and she agrees to pay the original balance. Richard tells us that it was going to be dismissed (?) with prejudice; it will be on file in the 3 credit beareaus but it will say that the delinquent balance was paid in full, so it won't affect her credit score.

Richard tells us he is going to record us on the phone call. He tells us to say if he agree to pay the balance in full today, and we agreed. He ended the recording and sent us over Docusign via email \*to input our credit card information to pay the balance.\* At this point, it is around 3:40pm and we are fully convinced that we can pay this off and have it resolved. I asked him if we could please pay this balance by tonight, when my mom gets home from work, but Richard tells us after 4pm, he can't do 

My mom sends me her credit card information (1) and I inputted it into Docusign. Richard communicates with his billing department and comes back and says that the card (1) was invalid. I tried the credit card (1) again and he says its invalid again. My mother then says "Hang up, we'll pay it tomorrow, who cares" but I was already so anxious and terrified hearing that they'll take our cars, cut her credit cards, take her to court, etc. I pushed her to send me another card for us to get this balance resolved.

My mom reluctantly sends me another credit card (2) to input into Docusign and it again, declines. Richard says he is willing to stay after closing hours to help us resolve this. I try that credit card (2) again and a minute later, I got an email saying a fraudulent charge of 1.3k is being processed, accept or decline? I immediately hung up the phone call and declined the credit card charge.

FYI, the reason why the first card (1) kept declining was because it was invalid; she was supposed to be sent a replacement card.

Now, I am 75% sure it was a scam. I couldn't find anything on Applegate ADR services, the charge was going to be from "Account Solutions" but I can't find anything on that either, my mother does not remember what from 2017 she could be medically charged for. And when we were sent a "receipt" of the charge, the company email was a [gmail.com](https://gmail.com) account. 

However, we were so convinced because it was not a stereotypical Indian-accent kind of scam. It was super sophisticated and I can't believe someone like me fell for it. I am a 4.0 GPA STEM major student who prides myself on my intelligence and skepticism, but I completely and utterly fell for it. 

Another 25% of me is scared that is was a real ADR company who was trying to help my mom. I need help confirming whether this phone call with Richard was in fact, a real financial collections (?) company or we were getting scammed. And if it was indeed an legit ADR company, do we have any legal grounds to combat this medical bill, especially since it was sent to the wrong address for the past 6 years?