SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: guys, i have just realized that instagram is flooded with 100s of scammy marketing guru ads
DATE: 2024-06-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d6vofa/guys_i_have_just_realized_that_instagram_is/

--- POST TEXT ---

holy crap

i did not realize this at all, but i was recently on instagram, scrolling through the feed

for some reason, my entire feed is plastered with scammy marketing gurus

literally every single one of them is in front of a camera, pedaling a bunch of bullshit and snake oil shit

every video starts with a hook immediately "i am going to teach you how to go from 0 clients a month to 100 clients a month" "i went from $0 in revenue to $3 million in revenue in 3 months"

and they ALL talk about a SUPER SECRET 3 step method. every single one of them

they are all fucking clones. who are these people. where the fuck did they spawn from. there's all types of them. asian women, white men, indian men. all of them. saying the same shit. they all have the same "3 STEP SECRET METHOD" or "4 STEP METHOD"

holy fuck. this is so weird to me. i never knew how far this rabbit hole went... i can literally scroll through instagram and see dozens and dozens of these ads... ALL of different people... they are all running the same scam operation. i never knew that this niche was super duper profitable like this???

it's so weird. so many questions

what do they even offer? they all have long copy on their ads, long landing pages, and they link to long webinars, and collect emails. i think they all push like $3000+ courses lol.... but what is even the course that they offer? some bullshit slapped together that they send over once the person who sees the ad pays? how do they not get sued for this stuff lol... they are literally just selling shit that can be found on youtube for free... only thing they are doing is scamming unsuspecting people... spicing them up with sensational copy and video marketing.... to get them to click through and pay

i wonder how they don't feel disgusted with themselves... they are putting their faces out there and basically scamming people lol.. and they don't even care

i can understand selling some crappy affiliate product to someone. sure, if someone buys it, whatever. you won't see them or build a connection with them, onto the next. i get that... but these scammy marketing gurus go to like the maximum level lol... they put their face out, they lure the people onto phone calls, and they talk directly to the customers. and convince them to pay $3000 for training courses.... it's like.. what? how does someone do that to a customer? sell them overpriced shit blantantly, basically swindling them over the phone. these marketing scam gurus know that what they are selling is shit... they know that their courses are not worth $3000+.... they know it all.. yet they have no problem aggressively trying to make the sale on the shit...

it's so weird, i had no idea so many people are out there doing this to make their money

i don't know how they can sleep at night. they must be psychopaths or some such things. this is strange