SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Recruiter wanted to know my passport number. Won't let me verify caller's legitimacy
DATE: 2018-12-03
SCORE: 38
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/a2lgnc/recruiter_wanted_to_know_my_passport_number_wont/

--- POST TEXT ---

The weekly threads seem to be dead, so decided to make a separate self post.

Here's what happened. I got call from a recruiter. He claimed to be from a company based in Hyderabad. said got my resume from Naukri. He also said that, I will be actually working in premise of Tech Mahindra. After some discussion about my profile. He asked for my Passport Number. 

When I said that I needed to verify that this call is from actual HR of the company he was claiming to be from. He gave a long speech about being big company. Employees working in various metro cities. etc. Nothing that tells me anything about the veracity of call. I was starting to smell a scam. So I asked him to drop me a mail, and once I have verified its from right email address, I will reply to all the queries in it.

He said he will send me a mail, but insisted I remain on the call and once I receive the email tell him my Passport number immediately, that to orally. Aside from the fact, no one remembers their Passport number (I don't even remember my phone number) this is highly suspicious. So I simply disconnected the call. Few minutes later I got call back, this time from mobile number, He was pissed, and was talking about how he is "HR Manager of big company" (his words). And who I was to be so rude to disconnect his call. You know full of himself. I simply disconnected the call again.

Funnily, he said that he never questioned, my profile posted on Naukri, and why I wouldn't trust him. As if calling me for scheduling a interview, is same as sharing Personal documents.

I was just wondering, whether he was legitimate and just out of touch with reality, or was it really a scammer. And if he was a legitimate HR manager, what can he do, to make my life hard?

tl;dr: Someone called me about job opening, wanted my passport number immediately. Won't let me verify anything. and then got angry, that I wouldn't share the personal information.