SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Scammed by a travel planning company, what to do next?
DATE: 2023-04-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/12ff5xm/scammed_by_a_travel_planning_company_what_to_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

Posting here for the first time, so mods please change the flair if it's not apt for the post.

Recently, a friend of mine and I were invited over to a free dinner on 26th Dec 2022 by the employees of a travel planning company(like Mahindra club) at a fancy restaurant to pitch us a holiday ownership membership. I was called multiple times(harassed) to attend the dinner. I also asked them to give us some time to go through their offer and revert back after a day or two but they persisted that the offer is for today only. Finally I decided to just go. There were two sales people who manipulated us to accept their membership offer. I can share the membership documents for your reference if you want. I was already exhausted from work and the offer looked too good to be true so I paid the amount through credit card. The transactions made were OTP based. Below additional promises were also made which were never addressed.

1. 15000 INR Shoppers stop voucher 

2. Passes for a pub for 31st Dec

3. There would not be any interest charged on the emi that I will pay. I have paid interest on all the emi that have deducted till date, 4 in total.

4. The first emi will be deducted only after 60 days but the emi is already deducted and the bill is getting generated every month.

After reading the reviews and researching about their service. Lot of scam reviews on mouthshut and other consumer websites. So I decided to cancel my membership after 2 days. I sent an email to their customer care to ask for cancellation but they refused to cancel the membership. They did have a clause to cancel the membership in 7 days. But said that my reason is personal and can not cancel without availing services. This confirmed my suspicion that they are running a scam to dupe gullible people like me. To be honest I feel I am responsible for falling into their trap. I also tried to get the emi's cancelled from my bank but they said they were OTP based transactions. So can not be reversed and money has already been transferred to the merchant.

I have hired a lawyer and he has sent a notice to them but no response received so far. The lawyer has also tried to put pressure through DCP office but to no avail. He is advising to file a complaint under 156(3) for cheating or have a string operation arranged by my friends.

Please advice what should I be doing? Should I forget the money and let it go?