SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My dad almost got scammed (but how?)
DATE: 2021-10-25
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/qfiqno/my_dad_almost_got_scammed_but_how/

--- POST TEXT ---

Okay so this happened a few months ago and it was a close call but nothing happened thank goodness, but I’m curious as to what they intended to do. 
Perfect timing for the scammer 🙄 my dad’s mail provider went down for a few days and he could access his inbox but not send any replies or new emails. Later that day he got an email from “yahoo support” - totally “legit” looking email (well, as legit as it gets for scammers)
My dad called the number for their tech support listed below the email. 
He immediately got through to a “John Riley” with a very distinct Indian accent 🚩
Up until that moment I had no idea my dad had even received that email or actually called them. I came in whilst he was on the phone with the “tech agent” on loudspeaker (my dad has hearing issues and my mum was there, he usually has phone calls on loud speaker and if he doesn’t hear someone correctly my mum will repeat what they’ve said for him)
So I walk in and my dad is getting out the laptop. I ask him who he’s talking to, he explains, the man asks who my father is talking to and my dad responds “oh my daughter! She works with computers too! Maybe you should talk to her” the man (audibly reluctantly agrees to speak with me 🚩) and I ask who I’m speaking with. He tells me his “name”.
He briefly explains the issue my dad has already explained to him that needs fixing. Ok cool. I have a weird feeling at this point so I go get a laptop, however it’s a very old one with nothing on it that we haven’t used for years, we just keep it as a backup in the home. 
He asks me to go through all this crap, clicking things and providing codes, I mouth to my dad at this point “SCAM” and while the scammer is talking me through how he needs to “remotely control my laptop to remove viruses” (I assume they can’t do anything as this laptop is wiped and has basic internet access) I Google on my phone the correct tech help number and compare it to the one provided in the fake email on my dad’s tablet - different numbers. By that point I *KNOW* it’s a scam and while he’s “deleting viruses from my laptop” I’m asking him how this will help my dad fix his email issue. He just keeps garbling on about how it’s an issue with how many viruses are on the computer and this needs sorted first. At this point I switch off the laptop and ask how he intends to proceed with this scam. He hangs up.

What were they doing/intending to do, and is there any good resources I can learn from and send to my dad so this or anything like it doesn’t happen again when maybe I’m not there. Thank you