SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Principal of Medical College Budaun acting as a Dictator and there's no one to stop him! 
DATE: 2024-03-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bkst99/principal_of_medical_college_budaun_acting_as_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, a friend of mine is in Government Medical College, Budaun and is really helpless on the atrocities being done by the principal N. C. PRAJAPATI.

It's been 3 months he joined there on a contractual role and this is what he faced.

1. Principal is giving shared room for Senior Resident women with families and asked them to live outside, if they don't wanna comply, despite several rooms being empty.
2. On one fine day, he himself cut the broadband wires of the Internet Service Provider in college provided by e-Band Internet Services (a local partner for Railwire here) and asked everyone to get BSNL internet. Most of the people lost money as they had subscribed to 6 months/annual plans of Railwire.
3. Yesterday he called upon a meeting for every resident to pay maintenance fees in cash without any official notice. Mind you this amount totals to over 40k per month and has no transparency as to where this is being spent. He is already using this money for his personal expenditure. Also, warned that those who won't pay it will not receive their salary. It will be kept on hold. And he also said to vacate the room if not willing to pay.
4. No one is allowed to park vehicles infront of emergency, he alongwith few others gets the tyre of the vehicle punctured. Even if there is an emergency and a patient needs you, you must park the vehicle first in a proper place and then look for the patient. 
5. MBBS students are not allowed to keep any personal vehicle. There's a ban on it as recently two boys got involved in a major accident outside of campus.
6. He suspended 12 students (6 boys+6 girls) for playing Holi in one of the lawns yesterday.

Now, these are some cases in a huge list that I was informed. To the lawyers here, is there anything I or We can do while being anonymous atleast to stop this dckhead keen on making lives of people hell. He is a bit of pervert too. If you google a bit about him, you will see, he was suspended too and was involved in a multi crore scam. He has 9 months left in his retirement. Don't suggest to keep suffering for 9 months as it will be over soon. 
This sub doesn't allow images to be attached else I have whatsapp screenshots too.