SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Car Accident : Taxi driver trying to extort money
DATE: 2023-03-19
SCORE: 24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/11vgyb3/car_accident_taxi_driver_trying_to_extort_money/

--- POST TEXT ---

Last November, I was on a road trip and had just pulled into Chennai. We were driving through the city and when my attention wandered for a second my car rammed into a taxi. Seeing it was a rear end collision where I was at fault I offered to pay for the damages. After taking my license, the taxi driver and I drove to a garage he was familiar with where the garage owner started chatting with the driver prior to investigating the damage. Luckily, having studied in Chennai, I picked up from the conversation that these guys are trying to scam me. Finally, the garage owner assessed the damage and quoted me 40,000. I offered a settlement of 10,000 on the spot which they rudely declined. I let the taxi driver know that I much rather settle this in a police station which he wasn’t ready for. He said he wouldn’t return my license and started abusing me at which point I told him he can claim insurance as I am not willing to pay a single penny. I drove to three different police station trying to understand which was the station in charge of the place of the accident. Finally I found it and when I went in to make a general entry the SHO advised me against it as apparently it would affect my travel to the UK( I work in London). Hence I just gave details at the station, which I felt was really informal as they just noted it down on a paper, and left for the rest of my trip.

Fast forward to January, my parents receive a photocopy of my license on the windshield of my car in Kerala at my home with a number asking to get in touch.

I got in touch with a person who identified as someone in Tamilnadu police. He let me know that the owner wants to settle for 20,000 to which I let him know that I was not interested and that he can claim insurance as we already tried to settle but he was interested in extortion. After a lot of to and fro the man who claimed to be a cop asked me to come to chennai with the car when I am finally back in the country, Dec 2023, for a settlement talk.

What I need help with is how to go about this situation and understand to what extent my liability lies. Am I required to go there with my car? Am I required to settle as I don’t have a general entry? Or do I just hold my ground and ask them to go to court? Also what do I do about my license?