SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Need advice: scholarship opportunity looking more like a fake school. Idk what to do.
DATE: 2023-04-22
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/12vd5r3/need_advice_scholarship_opportunity_looking_more/

--- POST TEXT ---

So a couple weeks ago I applied for a job posting through indeed for a holistic nutrition article writer that was work from home. It sounded like my dream job so I reached out directly to the directors email that was posted in the job description. 

Fast forward a handful of days and emails later, I was offered full scholarship for the company which ended being this Integrative Medicine/Nutrition school. I saw many red flags on the website so I reached out to several people listed as staff by searching them on linked in and checked out some of their accreditation sites so see if the school was even labeled. 

The weird thing is that the director is a whole legitimate doctor with a practice in Texas. Only 2 people emailed me back in which both confirmed that he was a real person. 1 of them said he made a huge positive impact on their integrative medicine practice, and he was a brilliant doctor but had a similar questionable school by another name in the past that got shut down. The other person who was also a doctor, confirmed she was a staff member at the school and teaches once a week at this establishment. The more I searched the more mixed results I found but more so legitimizing because of working socials, high followings, and one or two minor articles about the school. 

Despite my initial gut feeling, I applied to the school and chocked it up to human error on the poor web design. Now I’m 3 weeks into school which is running through canvas, the lack of professionalism is bleeding through the course. Corrupted module files, links not working correctly, misspellings on the working materials, quizzes not matching the resource material, pre-recorded lectures on youtube which has links to the doctors other businesses and potentially that prior school mentioned… The teacher in the class responds to email but left me hanging regarding the corrupted files. 

I eventually contacted the doctor that provided the scholarship and explained what was going on and said I’m beginning to question the legitimacy of the program. Magically my quiz in which I provided proof of the answers i selected were correct, got changed the following day but still no response.

So I’m really lost right now. Ive been googling college scams and indeed recruiting scams but nothing comes close to this. Idk if I should report to the FTC because my social was acquired for registration along with some college transcripts. Are there just poorly directed schools that are 100% legal or does this sound like a scam? 

Lastly, as a poc I really didnt want to stereotype but the doctor is indian. I understand there are a ton of scams by indians but I dont understand what would be the benefit of going through all this for identify theft? 

Any insight or similar experiences would be super helpful. Thank you!