SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Now, shady behavior during swiggy delivery
DATE: 2021-07-29
SCORE: 363
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/otw482/now_shady_behavior_during_swiggy_delivery/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I placed an order today around noon. The order was confirmed and was being prepared. A delivery executive was assigned and reached the place. The restaurant is very close to my place and usually the whole process is over within half an hour. This time, the order is "Being prepared" for an unusually long time (which is confusing because it is just mysore pak and murukk), and order status changes to "We are following up with restaurant to get your order to you". I am in no rush, so I just let it be. And eventually it is out for delivery and I wait at the balcony of my first floor apartment for the delivery.

Along comes two people in an activa, neither of them have any swiggy uniform or bag or anything related to swiggy. And right away they ask me to bring my phone down to check total or something (this was in Kannada, and my kannada is very poor). I check the total and tell them from the balcony and go down to clarify the issue. Coincidentally I just read this post today morning ([Suspicious activity from Zomato drivers](https://np.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/otbs4m/update_regarding_the_zomato_valet/)), and I so I did not take my phone downstairs. I tell them I dont speak Kannada, and one guy speaks the english very fluently. He says, there was some issue, the order was not placed at the restaurant, so they (being kind) bought the food with money out of their pocket, and now wanted me to pay them for the food.

Now this is very hard to believe, and I let them know it. They tell me I can talk to their "manager" on their phone, which I found very hard to believe-one, that delivery guys have managers, and two, he can just call any of his friends who can confirm his story for me. So I go back inside to contact customer service from my phone. Then they ring my bell, and I open it warily, and they repeat that I can talk to their manager or bring my phone so that they can contact swiggy through it. They say swiggy will initiate refund I will receive money instantly, so I can just pay them now only. I just refuse and say I am talking to customer service and ask them to wait. The two delivery guys while very shady, at least were polite and did not appear malevolent and would stand away from the door after they rang the bell.

Now oddly enough, swiggy customer service which has worked very smoothly in the past for me, right now is stagnant. The agent at the other end is not acknowledging or responding to my messages. I send messages saying it's urgent. By now, about 15 minutes after the deliveryguys have reached, they tell me they have another order. I ask them if they can leave the food and give me their gpay so I pay them once situation is clarified or I get refund. They repeat their request for money. I said I am talking with customer service, and one of them mention that I can cancel the order so that they can leave. Frustrated and tired, I just cancel the order right away, and the swiggy customer service bot itself initiates full refund (probably because of the late delivery). I told them that the order is cancelled. The two guys are now asking me if I don't want my food, as if they are concerned about my hunger. I said no, and that the order is cancelled. They finally leave. Now 5 mins after I cancelled the order, and 10 minutes after I asked for urgent help in chat, the customer service agent finally replies "I am sorry, but as I checked your order is cancelled", without acknowledging any of my other messages. I complain to him with more details, but again the agent is unresponsive.

I don't order from swiggy much and am not sure of the kinds of scams that happen with swiggy/zomato. So I am wondering what the F happened and what the truth is. Tried starting a fresh conversation with swiggy to know what actually happened, this time with an active agent, but only to receive template responses. They said they have notified the concerned team and I will get an update in 24-48 hours (lets see). If you guys have experience or know about such scams please let me know.