SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Got scammed by Gym trainer
DATE: 2023-06-16
SCORE: 289
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/14abdcf/got_scammed_by_gym_trainer/

--- POST TEXT ---

I stay near by Singasandra, I joined a local gym which used to be part of cult fit pro 2 months back. Now this gym has two trainers one being there for a year and other one recently joined. This recently joined trainer approached me and showed his insta with
24k followers, saying he was Mr Mysore few years back. He promised me results and asked 12k for 30 PT sessions, I didnt paid him upfront and tried his sessions for three days and was completely happy and satisfied with the effort he was putting.

I asked my brother also to enroll for a month and we went ahead to pay him the PT amount, when we were paying it to the gym paytm scanner the trainer started making emotional face and said that gym will take 50% commision and he will only get half, he
requested to pay to his paytm and to not tell anyone about the PT, he was also continuously asking to purchase whey protein from him for 5k saying that it is the same that he uses. So he took total of 27k rupees from us.
After taking the money he continued his sessions further(as he was trying to trap other people as well), just after 2 days he asked me for 10k credit saying his mom is not well, I said no as I was running low on balance after paying 27k to him, again 2 days after that he sent some pics of scooty damage and said
he met with an accident and asked 5k credit, I again said no as he had put status on whatsapp for leg workout later evening, I started feeling suspicious. Than comes the actual turning point he stops coming to gym and now when I called him yest evening he said he is in market and needs 5k, I was
angry and said no, again he said 2k will also do, I said no again. 

Today morning when I went to the moment fitness gym in Singasandra, the sweeper told me that he has ran with others money as well and he blocked my number for call, but his whatsapp was there so l messaged him that I will file a police complaint as I have the paytm screenshot of 27k rupees being sent to him and him making excuses of his mom illness
and scooty accident to extract money. But he replied fearlessly "ok".

I feel helpless now, I am not sure if police will listen to me, or how shall I take this incident.

He has blocked comments on all his public insta posts so no one can defame him there, I see his whatsapp status in some other gym today and I am pretty sure he is going to repeat this scam there also, be careful
Bangalore folks. There are more things I wanted to talk about how he do emotional manipulation but the post will be too long for that.

Update: There are around 6-7 people in the same gym he has taken money from but they all have given below 10k so they are not very serious about this to go to police. Please tell me what I can do because he is saying do wt you want on whatsapp. He claims that the owner have removed him so he got away, even if thats true why is he not giving the hard earned money back for all the inncoent people.