SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Women empowerment central to building prosperous state: Arunachal CM Khandu
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/women-empowerment-central-to-building-prosperous-state-arunachal-cm-khandu/2895283/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Itanagar, Apr 2 (PTI) Women empowerment is central to building a self-reliant and prosperous state, Chief Minister Pema Khandu said on Thursday, highlighting the role of Arunachal State Rural Livelihoods Mission (ArSRLM) in strengthening rural communities and creating sustainable livelihood opportunities.
He made the remarks in a post on X after chairing the fifth governing body meeting of the mission that focused on strengthening livelihood initiatives and expanding economic opportunities for rural communities, particularly women-led self-help groups (SHGs), which form the backbone of the mission.
“When women are empowered, families grow stronger. Strong families lead to strong villages, and strong villages build a strong state. ArSRLM is an important step towards a self-reliant and confident Arunachal Pradesh,” the chief minister said in a post on X.
Show Full Article
Khandu said the government would prioritise improving market linkages for SHG products, promoting digital and financial literacy, and encouraging youth to take up enterprises in rural areas.
“Our focus ahead will be on improving market linkages for SHG products, promoting digital and financial literacy, encouraging youth to take up rural enterprises, and strengthening value chains in agriculture, horticulture, and forest produce,” he said.
Reiterating the government’s commitment to inclusive growth, the chief minister said, “ArSRLM is an important step towards (building) a self-reliant and confident Arunachal Pradesh.” The ArSRLM aims to empower rural women by organising them into self-help groups, providing access to credit, skill development and livelihood opportunities, thereby strengthening grassroots economic participation across the state. PTI UPL UPL NSD
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.