SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need some legal advice about placing an FIR in Kolkata
DATE: 2024-02-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ajjqaw/need_some_legal_advice_about_placing_an_fir_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

So my parents and I have lived in the same building my entire life and our downstairs neighbour has caused a lot of issues in the recent years.

The neighbor's flat originally belonged to an older man who lived there with his "sister" (she was the caretaker of his children, who are now adults and have their own lives, and they referred to her as their "aunt"). He passed away a couple of years ago and left the apartment to this lady and the children do not live here.
The lady is quite old and kept randomly screaming or ranting during the day and we chalked it up to old age and some mental illness. We brought it up to the daughters (none of them live close by) and they brushed it off with a "your problem, you deal with it" kind of attitude. This woman went from randomly ranting to straight up accusations against me and my parents. Mind you we never interact with her barring the occasional meeting while going up and down the stairs. We do not speak to her or bother her and she seems to be always bothered by us using the common staircase to get in and out of our apartment.
The accusations have gotten worse with time. She kept screaming that I broke her phone, I have never met this woman except the staircase and I live in a completely different city now and visit home once a year.
She has accused my parents of dumping water on her (idk how because we have not entered her house ever), poking her with needles(again, never been inside her house) and baseless things like that. When my parents told her if she doesn't stop screaming these accusations all day they would go to the police, she said she would too. It was all a screaming match on the staircase on two different floors. 
Everyone in the neighborhood knows her the crazy lady and a lot of people have complained over the years and nothing has stopped her. The daughters have given up and don't want to take responsibility for this very old woman who has some very obvious mental health issues and lives alone.

My grandfather passed away about a month ago and on that day there were a lot of people visiting naturally to pay their respects and this woman went off. She screamed that she was finally happy that he was gone (what an awful thing to say to my obviously grieving parents) and some more random stuff. After some advice from family member my mother finally went to the local party office to lodge a complaint. They are aware of the situation and have received complaints from this lady and turned her away after the second time because it is extremely obvious that she is making this stuff up.

I really want my parents to lodge an official police complaint because this lady is pretty old and God forbid something happens to her (she is an old lady who lives alone), she can easily blame it on my parents and get them into trouble.
My parents do not want to lodge a complaint because they think the police would be uncooperative and do absolutely nothing and harrass them around. It's also important to mention that my parents don't live there full time and are out of the house for most of the day for work. They think if they lodge a complaint and an officer happens to come by when they are not around, they will just be harassed even more.

I really think a legal complaint is necessary here because what this lady is doing is nothing less than harassment at this point. The entire neighborhood knows and my parents are banking on them corroborating the story along with the party office complaint.

Should I file an online FIR? Again, I do not live there and cannot physically go to the station. What would it be the logical steps? I really need some advice here.