SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: VISA scam from India
DATE: 2024-01-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/19dzerx/visa_scam_from_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

I work at a small company in London and recently, maybe in the past 4-5 months or so, we have received emails of individuals who claim to be from companies that work in similar industries as us or companies that would be interested in our product/services. In those emails they say they wanna do business with us, so far so good. Then they say, they wanna visit our factory (we actually don't have a factory, it's more like a workshop) to check out our operations, products and to also build a business relationship with us, still so far so good. Then the red flags start popping up, they ask for an invitation, stating the name and I think passport number of the person who will be visiting I.e. their purchasing manager. At this point, we were actually a bit confused and just said, they don't need an invitation and just told them our opening hours and can come any time during the opening hours. Then they insist on us sending an invitation. At this point, it was starting to get weird and sus so we check the alleged company and can't really find anything on it. At the end, we just kept saying you don't need an invitation just come during opening hours. They even called us to ask for one. Eventually, they gave up and said thanks or something and that they will visit.

Some time later, someone from Visa authorities (not sure what they are called) called us also sent us emails saying asking us and checking to see if are sponsoring someone's visa. Obviously, we said no. After the first time it happened, we then received a few more emails from 'different individuals' asking for the same thing. 

My guess is that they must have poorly edited an invitation using the emails we sent and probably assets from our website. 

My question is, what kind of scam is this? Is it just for a Visa? Does it have any ramifications for the victim? And can people really just get Visa from an 'invitation' made on Microsoft Paint without any kind of cert/stamp of approval or official seal?

I tried Googling about this, but there's not much on it.