SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Addicted to loans... It has become the only way I can save.
DATE: 2023-12-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/18uxt9v/addicted_to_loans_it_has_become_the_only_way_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

In last 3 years I have 3x my salary. Still I'm stuck in loans with 80% of my Salary.

Back story:
I took my first personal loan in 2016, I was afraid because I don't want to have any liabilities, but I was convinced by family that I'll manage it, the loan was taken for renovation of the house, the building was of 1976 with 14 inch clay walls, I was to be married in coming years hence the need was there. 
I had no other liability at the time, my father took care of all the household expenses. But my father had no fix income (auto rickshaw driver in tier 3 city, Our savings were zero, always. 

When I started earning in 2013 it was a small salary less than what my Father use to make on average. The savings was not there as I moved to a Metro city and I have to live because "YOLO" mentality of a teenager who have seen the money for first time. My parents never asked for money and I never gave them. I would try hard to save, opened another saving account but as soon as I would save some considerable money I would feel this urge of buying something that I needed, In my mind I needed it urgently, all my childhood I could only dream about buying things but now I can afford it. "If not now then when?" I would convince myself. My account would be empty before 30th of every month.

After the loan and my lifestyle didn't took any major hit, Instead of going out every weekend I went out alternate weekend, my expenses were still normal as per me. 

My salary was growing but so were my expenses, in 2017 my colleague told me about stock market, I was skeptical, this seems like a scam, too good to be true. But during intensive research I found the story of Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and with limited knowledge of mutual fund sahi hai /s. In my mind mutual fund were risky as someone else was managing my money taking decision for me, he wouldn't care enough as much I would care for my money. I jumped into the stock market for Intraday stock trading (I still thank myself for not knowing anything about FnO at the time). For Diversification I also did an SIP of 500 INR per month.

Then I took another loan for marriage in Dec 2018, After tasting failures in Intraday trading I became a swing trader. I use to become trader in case of profit and long term Investors in case of loss. Before taking the loan I cashed out everything from the stock market,mutual funds and bank RD. With zero savings took loan of the remaining amount needed for marriage. I didn't burdened my family with any expense of my marriage because the savings were Zero it always have been. After this loan my 90% of salary was locked in EMIs, and rest were my expenses, my wife use to stay back home with me visiting every weekend as I use to live in shared accomodation in Metro city, while I was trying to find a flat with reasonable rents. In Next appraisal I got promoted and got the biggest hike and incentives of my career till that time (16%). I went to honeymoon to a nearby hill station 6 months after the marriage with the incentive money. I could've prepaid the amount to loan but when would I go to honeymoon I don't go now?

I was still oblivious to my spending pattern, I didn't knew things like financial planning exists. We were expecting our first baby in April 2020, Then Covid hit in March 2020, my salary was locked, my father's income stopped, then it dawned on me. I used moratorium and sailed through covid and then researched heavily and understood how investments works. I started investing this time with proper research by the amount was not much as all of it was locked in the end of 2020 my first EMI completed I redirected all that money to mutual funds and markets, but within 3-4 months I would spend that money due to some "Unavoidable" expenses for buying toys for baby or anyother urgent expenses, SIPs became irregular. 

In 2021 I got an offer to move to another part of india with a much better salary, for that I have to move with my Family and have to buy everything a house needs, I took another loan considering I would pay it off easily but I didn't took out money from the market this time as I have witnessed the bull run and what It can do to your money. Again 70% of my salary blocked and rest went to rent and household expenses. I got joining bonus there but instead of paying back loan I invested that money in market but after that market became stagnant.

In 2023 I got another offer with highest hike of my career. I took another loan to move there but didn't took out the money from market. Months after joining I couldn't invest regularly as expenses would come up I would track my money to every paisa but something was needed everytime. And extra money for the investments would not show up Weekend, restaurants, unplanned trips. Mind you all expenses were mine my family didn't ask for anything but I kept on thinking if not now then when.

Fed up with this I took another loan and bought a car this Diwali convincing myself that I'll be having my second baby in March 24 and it wouldn't be safe to travel on a bike anymore now again my salary is locked in EMIs and expenses. And I'm living comfortably. Without any impulses to buy useless things still enough money to plan vacation once a year. I have saved enough money that I can pay all my outstanding loans If I chose to cash everything from the market except for car loan and Car loan too can be closed If I choose to sell all the Gold that I've bought.

I don't know how or when I would come out of this impulsive buying behaviour, any suggestions or feedback from someone who have overcome this would be welcome. Till then I'm able to invest only If I don't have a regular surplus money in my account.

PS : I have identified this behaviour in COVID and took following steps since then
1. Took an appropriate Term insurance covering foreseeable expenses. Including comfortable living and education to my children.
2. Took health insurance for my parents of 20 lakhs.
3. My family's insurance is still standard provided by corporate.
4. I only gift gold in case of any event in my family.