SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: I am stuck badly in credit card debts. 
DATE: 2024-07-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1ec8533/i_am_stuck_badly_in_credit_card_debts/

--- POST TEXT ---

My english is very weak*

I had been stuck in credit card debt since 2+ years now and it's not ending. 

I am currently 18 yr old and rolling credit cards debt worth 8 lakhs since I was in 11th. I just keep paying 10k then remove it then again payment it then again widraw it, this way I keep rolling it every month on all my dad's 4 credit card totalling to nearly 8 lakhs. 

My life is stuck, The billing cycle of each cards is different. I don't earn alot of money so I can't pay all in or roll big amounts so my whole month goes in this. I am average in studies but still I am finding it very hard to keep up with my studies. I come come from clg and do the rolling and be on YouTube to find any way or trick to roll credit card with the least charges possible. Using education payment, UPI rupay etc. 

My dad did all this credit card debt because he was getting plot for very cheap rate 4 5 years back now the plot was scam somehow all the money gone, he didn't knew much mobile or internet so I found this way to roll credit cards and push the due until we have money to pay back. 

It's been 3 years my dad doesn't care about it, he does but he can't do anything about it. He saying me to roll because he also don't have job, somehow me and my dad both managed to get 10k every month from some loan app or dad gets or any person form that money I roll. I am tried of this now, I get tension every night how and when this will end. Each month I don't know how will I roll next time. 

I earn 6k at ca firm (not doing ca) but without it they given me job for tally and audits but that 6k goes into home expenses. 

Sister is on job getting 70k salary but marriage and deny giving some money. Mom also housewife, father no job . Luckily we have loan free house worth 30lakhs 1bhk in which we stay. And we don't plan to sell it 

Now how I pay this debt. Out of 10k of rolling 6-7k goes to fees only sometimes more, I try to use less fees apps but all keep ending. 

How I solve this I want to end this debt You advice