SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Looking for a Delhi Based Lawyer to fight a revenge porn case at a reasonable price.
DATE: 2025-03-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1je8f8g/looking_for_a_delhi_based_lawyer_to_fight_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

** A friend of mine is the victim here and has asked me to post this **

I am a 22-year-old woman from Mumbai. Before I tell you my story, you should know that I have been trying to deal with this alone for far too long. So any kind of help is very very appreciated. 

I was in an abusive relationship with a 23-year-old guy. It was an emotionally, financially, and maybe (I am still trying to figure that part out) sexually abusive relationship. I have been trying to break up with this person for as long as I can remember. Last November I finally broke up with him and everything blew up. 

It started with continuous calls to me and all the people around me from a lot of different numbers. I woke up with almost 200 missed calls. When that didn’t work he started sending my private photos to my family member. Even then I didn't respond so he sent a fake legal notice to my place of work. This happened in December. I tried to contain it at an individual level by talking to him. But last 4 months he has used every tool in his toolbox to control and blackmail me. Which includes but is not limited to:

Sending emails to my places of work calling me a fraud
Threatening my parents with a fake court case
Threatening to Sabotage my students
Threatening to take a lot of loans in my name

He did things to me that I can’t even speak of. On Saturday 15th of March 2025, I took 40 pills and finally tried to end it all. As you can see I survived but those sleeping pills were a wake-up call. I took that step because this guy got hold of my contact list and he sent my private picture to everyone which included my friends, my colleagues, my family, and my students. And he is continuously blackmailing me saying that he is going to get me stuck in a court case and that he will send a legal notice again saying that I defrauded him of 3 Lakhs. 

To the present, I spent 20 hours in a police station and finally filed a Zero FIR. It was difficult with all the judgment and questions about my character and my parent’s upbringing. I lived in fear for far too long and I am numb to his threats now. I have nothing else to lose and I want to bring him down. He destroyed my family and broke my spirit.

I work with an NGO, I support my family financially. He comes from a wealthy family so this court case won’t be a big deal for him but it will put a lot of financial pressure on my family. So this is a call for help. If you are someone or know someone who can help me in anyways please help me. Any legal advice or legal connection will be appreciated. 

I am looking for a Delhi-based lawyer to fight my case. It is not going to be easy as he is going to attack me with everything has got and he has everything. I can pay legal fees but not a lot.