SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I hope this isn’t real
DATE: 2025-04-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1jq2su7/i_hope_this_isnt_real/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I (25m) recently downloaded the dating app pof

A few days later I matched with a woman claiming to be 25 and only about an hour away from me. her profile seems legit except there’s only one picture of her and not much else to go on. Eventually she suggests taking it text messages which I don’t have a problem with. So I give her my number and she sends a text message. First thing I noticed was that it wasn’t iMessage which I thought was weird but didn’t really think too much about it. eventually after only two hours of talking she cuts the conversation short saying she’s got to go help some family out. 

The next day she texts me about the same time as the day before out of the blue and says her uncle passed away and things have been hectic I tell her I’m sorry for her loss She then completely flips the script by asking for a photo of me like a picture of my face, But again I don’t think anything of it and send one, she sends one back and calls me handsome then disappears again. She then texts me out of the blue two days later at around 9:30pm, saying she’s gonna send me nudes. I think nothing about it like an idiot and say go ahead as long as you’re comfortable. She then sends two photos, none of which has her face in them, I ask if she would be comfortable receiving a nude photo of me, she agrees. I send just one without my face in it. She then says she’s gonna send a video of herself and then disappears again. 4 days go by before I get a call from an unknown number, it’s a guy saying he’s with the county sheriff’s office. 

I immediately hang up because it’s a sheriff’s office that’s an hour away from, me coincidentally near where the woman I was talking to claims to live. The unknown number claiming to be from the sheriff’s office calls me another 3 times, I don’t respond. Eventually the number from the woman I matched with calls me, I don’t answer that either, I eventually get a text from her “dad” through her number claiming an officer told him to contact me via text to protect “both of us”. He then claimed the night she was making said video, her parents came home and caught her. A big argument broke out apparently and she threw her mom’s phone and struck a sliding glass door. Long story short the neighbors apparently called the police and the dad seen the text messages from me and her and then claiming she lied about her age and claimed she was actually 16. 

I started to get sick at my stomach because the “officer” that called me earlier had a southern accent and honestly I am only used to the Indian scams so naturally I thought it was legit. The dad then threatens me with several charges unless we can come to a “civil agreement” and then mentioned talking to the officer about it and saying the officer said if we stayed on the app I wouldn’t be at fault due to the llc agreement. At this point something isn’t right so I block her number and i block the county sheriff’s number. I then look up the county sheriffs real number and it’s completely different. I do a reverse search on it and the phone carrier is Neutral Tandem. So please help me tell me I’m not going crazy. Is this real or a scam?