SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My dad got scammed. What can I do to protect him in the future?
DATE: 2021-03-03
SCORE: 61
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/lwwa6b/my_dad_got_scammed_what_can_i_do_to_protect_him/

--- POST TEXT ---

So yesterday I was sitting in my room watching TV when I got a text from my bank asking if I made a transfer of $1800 via WorldRemit (I get alerts for my family’s checking account because I help my parents manage their finances) Literally 5 seconds later, my dad came into my room and asked if I could help him with something. I asked him what was going on and he said that he got an email that someone used our family checking account to buy a $4,000 Sony TV, and to call this number if he did not make this purchase. The man on the phone was helping him reverse the charges. I asked if I could speak to the man. 

I already had my suspicions, but as soon as he handed me the phone I knew what was happening. The man had a very thick Indian accent (I don’t mean to sound insensitive but I know most of these scams operate in India) and he seemed very irritated that I stopped him. I asked for his name and his employee ID number, which he gave, but he could not answer questions about what was going on or what he was “helping” my dad with. He just kept badgering me to help my dad type in his debit card numbers. 

I cursed him out and hung up. I explained to my dad that this was a scam, and the look of realization on his face was heartbreaking. I asked him if he gave the man his debit card numbers, and he admitted that he did. I checked the bank account and saw that there was a pending charge of $1450 via Transferwise. The other $1800 charge via WorldRemit that I got a text about was thankfully blocked by the bank. 

I immediately called the bank, cancelled his debit card and reported the charges as fraudulent. The woman on the phone was very helpful and sympathetic, but she did say that if the bank is unable to stop the $1450 charge before it clears from pending, it could take up to 10 weeks to get that money back. 

The scammer had also installed some sort of software on my dad’s computer (like TeamViewer) I took his computer to The Geek Squad and they took off all of the questionable software. 

I also called our local police department and left a message stating that I would like to file a police report. I know that the police can’t do anything about this, but I figured it would help our case if we got it in writing what happened. 

So, overall:

Am I missing something that I should be doing to clean up this mess? 

Is it worth it filing a police report? 

My dad is 65 years old and does not know how technology works, how can I protect him in the future?