SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Argued against overcharging for metro parking; attendant took photo of vehicle
DATE: 2024-06-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1d8wjed/argued_against_overcharging_for_metro_parking/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I've been a frequent commuter of the metro and mostly park my scooty for the maximum parking charges. 

However, I recently got charged the entire Rs 30 at Benninganahalli metro station when I parked for 5 hours. I realized it when I went home, so I decided I would keep a check on this. 

On 30 May, I parked my scooty again and returned within 6 hours. The parking attendant again told 30, but I asked him shouldn't it be Rs 20. He argued with stupid reasons and I stood my ground and asked him to scan the QR code and it showed Rs 20. I paid the amount and moved on. I will not go into the details of his behaviour but he seemed agitated and angry.

Today, 5 June, I parked my scooty and returned within 4hrs (10:30PM). I run into the same parking attendant and he again says Rs 30. I tell him that I've come within 4hrs and he again starts off saying it is after 10:30PM and so on. I just tell him to scan and he gets pissed off. In the end, I paid Rs 15 as per the machine and I moved on.

After today's confrontation, he took photos of my vehicle. My partner also has taken his photo and name, but I want to know who are the authorities where I can raise this issue. I had raised a complaint on the online form on the metro website, but I'm not sure if that is enough. 

I'm not too confident about leaving my vehicle in the parking lot any longer, and my partner occassionally uses the vehicle to travel till the metro station as well and I wouldn't want any trouble for them. 

Could someone advice on the right authorities where I can raise a complaint not only against this scam but also against the unruly behavior of the staff? 

TL:DR Argued against overcharging at metro parking and attendant took scooty's photo. Need advice on where to raise a complaint. 

P.S. As I was arguing I saw him overcharge multiple other folks. Seems like a common thing and not sure if it is limited to a specific metro station. Please be wary. For two wheelers, the first 4 hours is 15 Rs and every additional hour is 5 Rs, upto a maximum of 30 Rs per day. Double this for four wheelers.