SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Temple linked to arrested ‘godman’ Kharat received over Rs 1 crore from Maharashtra govt in 2018
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/temple-linked-to-arrested-godman-kharat-received-over-rs-1-crore-from-maharashtra-govt-in-2018/2889252/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mumbai, Mar 26 (PTI) The Maharashtra government had sanctioned more than Rs 1 crore for development works at a temple linked to arrested self-styled godman and rape accused Ashok Kharat in Nashik district in 2018, according to official documents.
The funds were approved on March 31, 2018 under the regional tourism development scheme by the tourism and cultural affairs department, then headed by BJP leader Jaykumar Rawal.
Kharat was arrested on March 18 after a 35-year-old woman accused him of repeated rape over a period of three years, and he is currently in police custody. He headed Shri Ishanyeshwar Devasthan temple trust at Sinnar in Nashik district and had several political leaders visit him over the years.
Show Full Article
As per the government resolution, administrative approval was granted for development works worth Rs 1.05 crore at the temple site, including construction of a hall, paving blocks on the premises, toilets for men and women, changing rooms, parking facilities, devotees’ accommodation, garden and electrification.
Of the sanctioned amount, Rs 25 lakh were released during the 2017-18 financial year.
The approval formed part of a larger decision to sanction works worth around Rs 112 crore for development of 58 religious sites, temple premises and tourist facilities across several districts in the state. Around Rs 17 crore were approved for disbursal to executing agencies, such as the Public Works Department (PWD), municipal corporations and zilla parishads in that financial year.
Officials said the allocation of funds to religious and tourism sites is a routine exercise undertaken annually and that there were no allegations against Kharat at the time of sanctioning the funds.
The works at the Ishanyeshwar temple were executed through the PWD.
Sources in the district administration said the temple received the highest allocation among four projects included from Nashik district under the scheme.
A Special Investigation Team (SIT), led by IPS officer Tejaswi Satpute, is probing cases against Kharat. It said six criminal cases have been registered against him so far, and the victims include a pregnant woman.
Officials said the SIT has found 100 objectionable videos and assets worth around Rs 1,500 crore related to Kharat. While the Income Tax department is investigating financial irregularities and property holdings of Kharat and people related to him, the cyber police are examining the videos.
Maharashtra Director General of Police (DGP) Sadanand Date and the state government are monitoring the investigation into the allegations against Kharat. PTI ND NP
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.