SUBREDDIT: r/IndiaInvestments
TITLE: P015 - Lessons learned from 30 years of banking
DATE: 2021-09-28
SCORE: 212
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/IndiaInvestments/comments/px8ffd/p015_lessons_learned_from_30_years_of_banking/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am trying to talk about a simple basic service that many of us have no clue on how to structure properly or don’t have the time . I have banked across PSU / Private / Foreign banks in India , and US and Singapore . Here is the lesson I have learnt from it 

In the intervening period I have had faced the following : 

1. Been subject to demat fraud 
2. Credit card fraud in India 
3. Debit card fraud in India 
4. Special card offers that aren’t that special 
5. Mis selling by bank employees
6. Cards being used in foreign countries out of the blue 
7. Forex cards not working in foreign countries 
8. Cards being blocked as soon as I have tried to use them in a foreign land . 
9. Atrocious charges hitting me out of the blue as I am quietly upgraded 

I mean I can go on , but the list is long . It’s taken me 3 painful years to resort things to address utility , convenience and risk .

1. I have segregated income , expenditure and savings . 

2. All earned income goes into a joint account between me and my spouse with a private bank . It has a debit card and no loans demat or any cards attached . 

3. There are only 2 -3 transactions a month from the income account . One to the expenditure account and one to the savings account and one for any donation that might occur.

4. The expenditure saving account is with another bank which has a saving , loan , credit and debit cards for me and spouse . All expenditure , card transactions are made here. All premiums and expenses are paid here .

5. The investment account only has a savings and demat / online trading ac and can also access US/ Singapore funds . No transactions except savings .

Segregating all three has given me a lot of relief . It has made my CA life a bit complicated but essentially I have 

A. The bank that has my loans / cards has no assets.

B. The bank that has my assets has no liabilities and provides services in US and Singapore . All I need to do is maintain my balance here and I have zero balance requirements there 

C. The bank where salary gets credit has no assets / no liabilities . Just two
Two transaction in and 3 out . 

D. I make it a point to change / reissue cards for the expenditure bank ac every year , or if used abroad , on return to India 

E. All three accounts link to different numbers for otp transactions , no interdependence .

In short I have found my formula to a peaceful banking experience.

The biggest mistake I used to make was rely on one bank .