SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: IDFC Bank fraud.
DATE: 2024-06-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dqp9lk/idfc_bank_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello,

I am a long time lurker but first time poster. Respect to all the lawyers here, hope you keep giving back to the community.

Issue-

I purchased a Sony TV from Vijay sales in NOV 2023. The purchase was made by availing the consumer durable loan from IDFC bank because of a cashback offer that gave me a benefit of maximum discount. It is very important to note here that i was suggested this loan by Vijay sales rep which is i guess a non issue as it was not the reason we availed it, we availed it for discount. The IDFC representative that works there promised us a cashback of INR 10000 based on there ongoing DIWALI OFFER and showed us below attached offer pamphlet(We clicked picture). IMPORTANT to note is that pamphlet mentions that offer is applicable across only 2 brands however the bank representative informed us &amp; assured that offer is applicable across every panel(TV) brands(As informed by his manager).

I was supposed to receive the cashback after paying 4th emi timely, which i did. However, i did not receive anything even after which i contacted bank: 
1st- Raised a ticket through call support, ticket closed after 15 days with outcome- loan ineligible for cashback.
2nd- Infuriated i raised an online complaint through email keeping RNO in loop with outcome- ticket still open and at first they denied saying loan ineligible for cashback. After insisting and showing some proof they say loan was eligible for cashback of INR 2260 which they credited in APR but never did(asked for statement,shared). Now they are again stuck on same, loan was only applicable on 2 brands.

I confronted the IDFC representative at store &amp; he still insists that loan is eligible and many people have availed it however this time there has been a lot of delays so i should just wait? I am about to pay my last emi so I don't know wait for what or till when?

NOTE- I have a recent call recording of conversation with bank representative accepting all this which i already shared with bank as they demanded some proof.

Complaint is still not going anywhere so i have already threatened to take further legal action as this is a clear case of FRAUD by IDFC bank.

Attaching screenshot if helps.

NEED- Need to know how to proceed legally. RBI ombudsman? Consumer complaint?

Any help is much appreciated. Thank you.

Location- Delhi, incase matters.

TLDR- Bank rep tricked in getting loan by promising cashback offer now bank not honouring it.