SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Need suggestions / Got scammed (my fault)
DATE: 2023-10-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1771cwi/need_suggestions_got_scammed_my_fault/

--- POST TEXT ---

Context:
I am a straight male of 22 working in a good IT company in Bangalore, I was in a long-term relationship of more than 3 years. We broke up due to various circumstances. It wasn’t a good breakup because I was sure that this is the person I want with me for all my life.
I was hurt, feeling lonely and horny at the same time so I thought there must be something like OF in India on telegram.

Stupditiy Begins:
So I began searching telegram channels with girls who offer paid video call services and to my surprise there were a lot of channels and all of them with more than 10k or 20k + members in them.
I found some telegram accounts from those channels and messaged them.
The charges mentioned by said contacts were very low, all under 500 for 30 minutes, so I paid couple of them thinking what’s the worse that will happen/ what’s the most money I can loose. 
I was cautious enough even while knees deep in my own swamp of stupidity so I had taped my front and back camera.
I paid the money and then they started demanding security money and then room charges and internet charges so on. All the charges were around 100-200 and I was horny enough to not care for such amount. 
All the accounts that I paid got radio silent on me, the replies became slow to the point of 1 message in 10-20 mins.
My stupidity didn’t stop here.
I found a account that was asking 700 for 20 minutes and this was the highest amongst the accounts that I have found on the channels that I mentioned earlier. I thought this one is asking far more than anyone else and the photos on the account are also nice so this can be legit.
So I asked her in the first message if there are any other charges except what she had messaged me and she confirmed that there are no extra charges. So I paid 700 and then she started asking for 1399 as a refundable security amount, after slight hesitation I transferred the money thinking this is the last payment that she will ask for but that wasn’t the case. She then asked for 1999 as refundable room and internet charges.
Even after being conned for more than 4 times in a day, I denied the money after a lot of back and forth in my mind.

Result:
In total I lost around 5k and the whole working day.

Question/Help:
I have a question, can they somehow traceback the upi payments to me and blackmail me for more money. 
All the payments were made through phonepe and my telegram account and phonepe profile had no profile picture, telegram account had no name and everything else was hidden by privacy settings.
I am from a middle class family and I am the first engineer that graduated from tier1 engineering college in the whole joint family and that too with a good job.
I would hate to lose the respect / money that I have earned with hard work and a lot of sleepless nights for this one-time mistake even though it was an extremely stupid act.