SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Medical sector is a joke
DATE: 2024-02-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1amdmq4/medical_sector_is_a_joke/

--- POST TEXT ---

Not a rant about bad service but about what happens on the back end. Parents are from the medical field so I know quite a few gossips which are true. (Parents got of the industry and became professors because academia has lesser politics. Also, made sure that I don't get into the field)

1. Insurance scam is 100% true. If you state that you have insurance before hand, you're going to get a very hefty bill.

2. Blood transfusions: there are a lot of local blood banks that are not certified. Certified blood banks take blood on donation basis, they don't pay the person in exchange for blood. Non certified ones do. They take blood without proper precautions or testing. If you're getting a blood transfusion, get it from a known centre (Lions and Rashtrothana are some that we trust). Even in a hospital, insist that you'll arrange for the blood, if it's not urgent. I know someone who died because the nursing home got blood from an uncertifies blood bank.

3. Tests and diagnostics: it's an open secret that prescribing doctors get a cut of the tests they prescribe. This cut ranges from 20-50%. 

4. Overprescribing tests: result of the previous point. So how do diagnostic centres make a profit with 50% cut? Doctors overprescribe and inform the test centres regarding the necessary and unnecessary tests. The test centres will only do the ones necessary and the rest is the profit shared by the doctor and test centre.

5. Hiring specialists in large chain hospitals: a few(not all) specialists and super specialist doctors are poached by large chain hospitals. These people are promised a HUGE pay (70L -1 Cr+) in return for sales. For eg a cardiac surgeon can be promised 1Cr per year, if they ensure that they get the total bill amount of the patients for the year to be 5-6Cr. 

6. Education system is corrupt: well this is the case in any field. Here the payment seat in Bangalore goes upto 1.2 Cr. Students even pay to pass if they fail subjects. Unlike engineering students, placement doesn't really exist. So marks aren't something that really matter to much. Only a pass grade. 

7. Ministers own a certain number of seats: usually happens for super specialities where the seats are sold by politicians rather than the college. Seats are in crores, at whatever rate they want to sell.

8. Pharma industry: don't buy drugs that are from unknown companies. They can have the same composition as whatever you needed, at a lower rate than big name companies, but it's not always the best one. Eg: I've had Moxikind (antibiotic from Mankind) and the same one from BBMP Pharma. The later doesn't do shit. Make sure you look at the spelling as well. If you're unsure of the tablet or it's unavailable, ask your doctor to give you some alternatives. Pharmacists can give you tablets with very small spelling changes, which is a higher price than the one you wanted, and you wouldn't realise.

Suggestions:
1. Big name companies with huge marketing tactics are places you should avoid unless you know that the doctor is really good. 

2. If you have a preference for a doctor, ask if the consult in multiple hospitals. As a patient, you are 100% free to shift to any hospital.

3. Small clinics/nursing homes/ nursing homes aren't always better. Yes, better than big hospitals but unless you know that the doctor is good, don't go for it.

4. You can always say that you need a second opinion before proceeding. Just don't tell the second doctor that, or give info about the second doctor to the first. Doctors are a tight knit community.