SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Brother got scammed in Online Order placing commission profit scheme
DATE: 2025-05-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1kdouxn/brother_got_scammed_in_online_order_placing/

--- POST TEXT ---

My brother (cousin) got scammed with this new type of scam where they begin with explaining this is some kind of order placing part time work on Meesho. I know this is highly irresponsible but he's just a kid who got scammed in part time work thing..

He started the order placing on some random website and placed orders (aka transferred money to various accounts) of upto 80k to 1Lakhs. He panicked after they stopped responding, he felt that he somehow did not complete their required tasks. But I recognized it as some shady thing and told him it was a scam. This happened yesterday 10pm. I promptly asked him to collect all screenshots of any and all of their conversations, their numbers and all the UPI transactions. I asked him to create a fraud transaction support ticket on GPay (he and his father transferred money through GPay to all the accounts). According to NPCI, the third Party app GPay is supposed to address this first. GPay gave him a cyber crime helpline number which is good, and then he sent all the details to them via Whatsapp. Today, he went to the Local Police station (Mysore, KA) and police told him to come tomorrow as the Cyber crime guy (inpector) was not present.They did not even write a report or file a complaint, said they will do that tomorrow. They also told him they will check if the money is in all those accounts, they will remove the money from that and return, if not then your money is gone. I think this is highly irresponsible of the police and Cyber crime cell as I know time is of essence in such scams.

If any action is not taken in 24-72 hrs of the scam, the money is funneled through dummy accounts and then recovery is not possible. Next I told him to create a NPCI complaint with all the screenshots and all the UPI transactions, as all available methods are exhausted.

1. Third party app contact.
2. Cyber crime complaint (no further action done on their part).

Last resort is NPCI complaint. Please suggest any other methods that I can use to get attention of authorities ?