SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Whatsapp, I am done with it. Why won't MZ let people like me be in peace?
DATE: 2023-09-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16mv5pf/whatsapp_i_am_done_with_it_why_wont_mz_let_people/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: WhatsApp is becoming more life Instagram and Facebook. I hate it. So I am deleting it for good!

So this afternoon, I found whatsapp has been updated and there couple of new features:

1. Status tab is now called updates and consists of 2 things: Statuses and Channels
2. The Status list which used to have a column layout now has a row layout, similar to the Instagram and Facebook apps and my account is somehow automatically following a few channels.

Before I go further with my rant, let me give a brief history of myself:

I was a rampant facebook and instagram user and I was very deeply addicted to it. I started using it when I was a teen and continued through my early adulthood. Few years back, my entire day and night revolved around it. By the time I realized how adversely it has affected my life, it was too late and I was already deep in the pit. A typical day would start by me grabbing my phone as soon as I wake up and mindlessly scrolling through the feed. It would happen that all the activities I did had become passive somehow and my attention was completely glued to my phone. I would be mindlessly scrolling when brushing my teeth, when shitting, when cooking. Basically consider any task, my focus on it would be close to none because I would be doing it passively while consuming the social media content.

The toxicity maxed out during the COVID lockdown days and the huge wave of misinformation and political propaganda content escalated things to terrible levels. Everywhere there would be polarzing content, addictive shorts/reels, scam advertisements and product promotions, MLMs, and what not.

In late October of 2020, it finally hit me how much my lifestyle had degraded. I had lost all the zeal to explore new things, my curiosity levels to learn new stuff had become virtually null. My actual connection with real people was also non existent. My performance in my job was extremely questionable and I had no will power to do anything at all. It was painful but I finally admitted to myself that I have an addiction problem and this is also no different than a drinking/smoking problem. I really had to do something to fix this and bring my life back to track. 

After a month, in the last week of November, I finally clicked the delete button and got rid of all my social media accounts. It said that there would be 30 days waiting period before it gets perfmanently deleted. Those cunning app engineers know that most people cannot withold for that long and would eventually return back. But I somehow put myself together and made it through the 30 days. It was a very difficult phase. Most of my days were left out empty, with nothing to do and my mind craving for dopamine hit from scrolling the newsfeed. Post the 30 days mark, after my account got permanently deleted, I felt relieved for a few days. But then came a new phase. I had to live amongst those who still continued using these apps and prevent the urge to go back to using them, may be by creating new accounts. Essentially I had to make sure that I do not relapse. 

Thankfully, as time progressed, I found new ways to keep myself busy and productive, something that I would have never done if I had still been using these toxic services. My lifestyle gradually started improving, I became more healthier, my mind came to peace. I was no longer affected by the fake people displaying their fake livestyles. I had entered the detoxing phase. My attention span also improved and so did my decision making skills. I learned many new things and got better overtime. Coming out the addiction was one of the toughest things that I had ever done in my life.

And now Whatsapp, which is also owned by the evil corporation is the next in line to become yet another addiction hub. To be honest, I have always wanted to leave Whatsapp because instead of being a Messaging app, it has become a University. I hated it when the status feature got introduced. What is point of status? To show off your fake lifestyle momentarily to all the contacts on your phone? If you intend to share, you could just share it with those that matter! Anyways, it took a long time for me to make peace with it. But now, with the latest update that has been brought, the line has been crossed. Meta clearly wants to make the app look identical to Instagram and facebook so that the user's attention is their's to own 24x7. I've had it. I am quitting Whatsapp! I don't care if everyone else is using Whatsapp. People who care to talk to me or text me can just make a normal call or text. 

Meta already knows more about me than I myself know about me. All these years of collecting data, manipulating my behavior, etc. etc., I am putting an end to this. I own my life, not the fucking evil corporation! End of Rant!

&amp;#x200B;