SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Never give money to a delivery personnel, never.
DATE: 2025-04-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1kaku6u/never_give_money_to_a_delivery_personnel_never/

--- POST TEXT ---

They cry and make faces. Create random stories. To scam the money out of you. They make excuses and scinarios to make your conscience cry for them. There almost never is an emergency that they require money from a stranger. They have the support from a team behind them if required. Their own friends. A person who works to feed his/her family will never beg you.

I know this might come across as classist, but after working with over a thousand delivery riders over the past three years, I should share my experiences with you. This is a reality coming from someone who deals with this delivery personnels on the daily basis. 

A large number of riders are not doing this work to support their families or as a temporary job. Most do this to fuel their substance addiction.
Theft is a the most common issues, be it company property, client property, even rented vehicles. Riders damage and abandon the scooters. Some have totaled and sold or mortgage the rental vehicles. Frequent and same excuses for everything, from everyone. There's always someone sick or dead at home. Especially Tai, Tau, Dada, Dadi. This happens whenever they don't wanna work or pay rent of the scooter.

We offered medical insurance where riders paid just 25% of the premium and we covered 75%. Almost everyone refused. It made financial sense to us since they ask advance payment for medical emergencies and disappear with our money. We were loosing money. So we decides the amount we were lossing, we can provide them with medical insurance. Don't ask why we paid them advances. Those who have never worked with blue collar workers, won't understand it. 
A few riders who agreed to the insurance, blame us when insurers deny claims, which are out of our hands. Mind you we are a very small operation with not much resources. Whatever they earn, everything goes to them. Minus the scooter rent, which is our source only source of income and ranges from ₹60 to ₹180 per day. And riders who work proper shifts can earn ₹800 per day very easily. I have the data.

We have received videos from clients, where riders have stolen from their houses, threatened them and assaulted them. We have riders threaten me at one time and then beg me in the next hour. We have had riders who have tried to assault me and our team. We have had riders, the women whose family have called police and torn their own clothes accusing my team of assaulting the them, when my team went to pickup the company property. People talk about not providing the riders with fixed salaries. We have tried that. We suffered nothing but loss during that period. If you pay them a fixed salary, they just sit at the store and not take deliveries. We had to hire people to oversee them at every store. Which was a nightmare in itself.

I agree that the logistics industry operates on tough terms. But these systems weren’t built to exploitative all the time, they evolved after seeing how bad things can get. Even though corporate greed is involved, every policy is usually designed to keep the loopholes in check. You really can't expect business to burn money and not get any revenue from it. I know for a fact that two startups that worked in last mile delivery, closed shop after the rider/drivers found loopholes and exploited the fuck out of them. By the time they found and plugged the loopholes, the companies bled dry and shut shop. One of them had more than 300 permanent employees. 

I've seen many posts about customers getting scammed or feeling unsafe with delivery riders. Here’s some advice, based solely on my experience (especially for women):
1. Never give money to a delivery rider, regardless of the excuse. There are other ways to help. 
2. Don’t share your exact address on delivery apps rather use a nearby address (change your house number basically with your next neighbour) or location instead. They have your number, they'll call you.
3. Never let a delivery person enter your building or home but go downstairs to collect the order. Why would you let a stranger know where you live.

This advice might sound extreme, but it what I feel everyone should keep in their mind while ordering anything online. 

This the harsh truth. You can talk to someone who has a delivery business, they will tell you the same thing.