SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Citibank credit card snooped in Bangalore- 48000INR withdrawn from a different country
DATE: 2016-10-03
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/55mmcg/citibank_credit_card_snooped_in_bangalore/

--- POST TEXT ---

Guys, 
I have no idea what to do, I always thought this is impossible ! I am in a different country and I have my credit card with me in my hand. 48000 INR has been withdrawn with in span of 3minutes. 

By the time I got on call with Citibank, three transactions took place. Citibank says that since it was cash withdrawal and it was pin based, Citibank says that they cannot file a dispute and I have to file a FIR. 

I have no idea what to do and I am in a different country(Qatar) and withdrawals happened in Bangalore

Edit1: Title should have been credit card skimmed not snooped(wth) 
&gt; I filed a online FIR , used the blocked card in Qatar to show proof that I have the card with me in Qatar and its not in Bangalore where the fraud happened
&gt; CitiBank told me that they will initiate the dispute process after the transaction reflects in the statement
&gt; CitiBank apparently takes up with the Visa/Master with the proofs they gather to prove that the card has been skimmed which approved for a refund by Visa/Master, they will credit the money
&gt; I spoke to 6 CSR's from CiTi and all of them told me that they cant do a lot as it is a cash withdrawal and it needs a card and the PIN , WTF does that mean ? It is a clear case of skimming. I am suppose to be protected 

**Update**
1. Provided the below proofs to CiTiBank 
FIR Copy that I filed online which as per CiTi was a must
Passport Copy
Physical Card Camera snap - With Times of India in the background which has time and date 
Blocked card used in Qatar physically(both scanned and camera snap) - I used my card in Qatar and it was declined - Proof that card is in my possession in a different country
Customer declaration form with appropriate details 
Email to CyberCrime - Wrote an email to Deputy SI with all the details of the fraud that occurred along with the FIR copy.
Email alerts from Citibank - All three withdrawals - 48000 INR
2. I spoke to the dispute team, I was told that most likely they will get a permanent credit back in to the CC

I wonder what would have happened if I was in India at the time of these fraudulent transactions or if I had left the credit card at home and was out of country or if my parents cards had been skimmed, how would they provide so much proof and go through the hassle. 

I provided the proofs proactively, all they asked is for FIR. Should I just get a American express card , I have heard there customer service is excellent.