SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: What legal action is taken if a cyber offence culprit doesn't return the money?
DATE: 2025-05-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1kdrn54/what_legal_action_is_taken_if_a_cyber_offence/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, I lent a person and shit ton of money. Catch is, i was stupidly naive to try to help a guy I just met on Bumble and he admitted to catfishing later on when things got legal. 

We had called 2-3 times before he introduced the concept of "growing together", which is within 2-3 days. Where I invest money and he does a 50/50 on the profit. I felt it was naturally flow of conversation because we had spoken about me loving to invest and other business stuff.

I thought he was the one because he was okay with something serious and wasn't into short term stuff and other things that he knew I wanted to hear. So, I trusted him with bigger amounts to the point I didn't check how much I was sending him and how much was left in my account.

After 4 days, every call was about money and
Investment and blah blah. It was annoying. And i told him, talk sweet things, silly things. I couldn't care less about the money. 

Then he came in with the thing that he is struggling and if I invest then he can invest money through the gains. He also took 85k from me for his father's health insurance.

I can't even call him a date or anything because we never met or videocalled. But there were elements of honesty which made me believe he is not a criminal. Something was off but it was like a grey area.

Then he asked for money from brother. And my trading account. And my mother.

Long story short, he owes 4 Lakhs.
He surpassed any dates that he had mentioned and when my brother connected with him, he was ill behaving with him.

My family got very worried as in this seemed like a very proper cyber crime.

But somewhere i felt he is a loser, a psycho maniac who believed his own wishful thinking but not an organised criminal.

We filed a cyber complaint. And his account got frozen. And then he was all after me, how i should unfreeze his account.

Between the day of complaint to now, this dude, as completely neurotic and stupid he is, says only i can unfreeze his account. Which is an absolute BS. He didn't even check the right process before literally forcing me on and on to sign a paper and send it to him. 

I asked him to send his DL and Pan to the police id and CC me. And only then did he mention that was using someone else's pictures and was lying about them. The only information I apparently had of him.

Day before yesterday, again he was cribbing about some stupid shit that they have filed it under a job fraud category instead of investment I'm like i didn't fill the file. And he kept shouting. 

i lost my shit and he said you didn't pick up the call the police guy in on conference call. I'm like you never said there was a cyber on the other end. So I said call him again. Hell yes.

All these days I was afraid and patient because he had a volatile fuse. But when you are true, there's no fear.

That call was my ultimate renaissance. The police guy showed the mirror to him and his petty ways. 

The police guy said nobody can unfreeze the account unless he returns everything. And a legal action would be taken 2-3 months if he defaults.
And that he didn't just owe me 2 lakhs like he assumed, but a documented 4 lakhs.
And the police guy basically give him the finger.

That shut him up. I also told the cyber police representative about him calling me 4-5 times a day like a lunatic asking to do something which I couldn't do, to unfreeze it. 

He was the LEAST sorry about the damage he has done to me, including my family, me and moreover trivialized the fact that he used someone else's pictures and took money.

Sure, i was dumb. 
But he was cruel, wicked and evil.

So, yeah. What are the legal action that the police can do if he defaults?