SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Old Scam Attempt Story - Microsoft Help
DATE: 2021-11-08
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/qp18bx/old_scam_attempt_story_microsoft_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, a story from a few years back about a scammer that tried to Scam me while posing as a Microsoft Helpline.

1) At the time, I had two devices. Device #1 was a Desktop PC, Device #2 was a Laptop.

2) My PC had experienced a bug or virus of some kind, that resulted in the Passoword changing, and I had no way to reset it (Back before Windows Accounts linked to Outlook).

3) I went onto Microsofts website in search of answers, and eventually ended up on an Online Chat with one of their "Helpers".

4) I explained the situation to them, but the response was lackluster and basically amounted to "We'll get back to you".

5) Later that day, I received a Phone Call. Indian Accent, suppose it was a call center. The conversation was relatively normal, up until the point that his supposed solution required me installing Team Viewer.

6) I queried, what is the point of installing Team viewer given the nature of my problem? He responds that he can only help by seeing the problem directly. I said, how do I even install TV on my PC, when the issue is that I can't log into it? He responds by saying I should install it on my Laptop, which is problem free.

I went on to question how it was possible to fix a Login problem for a device by giving him control of a completely different and unrelated device, that wasn't in any way connected to the other. His answers were lackluster to say the least, and were mostly dodging the question.

Now, As a personal rule of thumb, I refuse to install Teamviewer or give control to any person outside of 2 situations.

\#1 I trust them. Either this is a person I know, or I have sufficient reason to trust them. Anyone I know the number of and call, I may trust. Anyone that calls me, or has me call them from a number I obtain from anything other than the official website (Like an email), is thus untrustworthy.

\#2 I personally believe them taking control, will help. If I ask them to explain what they're going to be doing, I need an answer or I aint trusting.

Anywhos, I pretended to download it and went on with his "Instructions" by basically just "Okay did that" up until he wanted the Id and whatnot, then I gave up, as I didn't want to take any risks.

\------------------

TL;DR

Critical Thinking. Whenever someone wants to "Take Control" of your device in anyway, try to ask what they're going to do and /why/ they need to do it. In this specific case, him controlling my laptop wasn't going to let me login to my desktop, and even he couldn't come up with a reason to explain why he needed it.

Always Question, and if they aren't even smart enough on the topic to explain it, be very suspicious.