SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I got scammed today because of my own foolishness. Give me some advice because I'm really shocked and frustrated
DATE: 2020-04-02
SCORE: 216
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ftjihj/i_got_scammed_today_because_of_my_own_foolishness/

--- POST TEXT ---

Some info about me:

I'm in 12th class and I recently registered on Google pay like 2-3 weeks ago. I teach tutions to 3 kids and earn upto 1500 per month. My father is a retired army JCO.

Today my neighbor ,who is a very nice guy and a good friend and junior of my father, came to me and asked for my phone number. The situation was he bought a jio sim which was not activated even after 1 month of buying it. And jio customer care were not picking up due to some reason. So he called some number he found on Google and that was scammers phone number who asked him for an alternative number. 

I asked uncle whose phone it was and he said "jio customer care". Then scammer asked if I used Google pay because a processing fees of 9 Rs was required. Uncle already knew I used Google pay so he said yes. Now scammer sent me messages on my phone which looked like gibberish at first glance and asked me to forward it to some other number. I did that. Then he sent me a link of a Google doc where he asked for 3 things: amount to be sent(9), UPI PIN, and bank name. And idiot me actually sent the UPI PIN. I was getting suspicious but I shrugged it off. 

Then I got a message that my bank account was linked to axis bank.After that he asked me to install TeamViewer app and at that time I knew that it was a scam but it was too late. 

Then I got two messages that a random number was requesting 4,999 and 4050 and if I approved then the money will be transferred. But then it got approved by itself and I lost around 9000 RS which took me like 10 months to earn. 

Damage control

I created fd of the remaining money in my bank account. And I changed the UPI PIN of Google pay. And changed password of my accounts. 
Uncle offered to pay me 9000 RS but I said I'll talk to him later because I'm really shaken up.

After all this that guy still had the audacity to call and and was laughing hard when I was cursing at him. During the call uncle said he heard voices of 2-3 people and some ladies in the background.

I am really angry at myself to even think that I will never get scammed and stuff. And I'm very sad that I lost my hard earned money. Someone please help me.

#Edit

Thank you guys for your support. Really helped me yesterday. I really needed help. Also thank you for considering to financially help me it really means a lot. 

Even if money's gone for good now I have learned my lesson and hope that the comments on this post will be of help to someone in future. 

The worst thing about all that was the feeling I felt when my money was getting transfered and I was helpless and couldn't do anything.

I was going to buy a phone to game on this year with that money but shit.