SUBREDDIT: r/mumbai
TITLE: How do you figure out a Caucasian person is not a scammer ?
DATE: 2022-03-23
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/tkvap7/how_do_you_figure_out_a_caucasian_person_is_not_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

I (M25) have met a woman from Spain(F27). I tried not to be too friendly with her as it would come across as creepy. As it is indian men have a notorious image of that. She's not too pretty to look at, but she's caucasian. She's coming in my swimming classes.(it's unisex but me and her are the youngest of the lot. Other 19 students are all over 35 and already married). I live on the far northern side of the city and this woman lives in bandra alone in her rented flat. Our program is 350 hours over 6.5 months duration. It's flexible you can come in any Tuesday Thursday or Saturday slot. But this female always ensures to come when I'm attending. That was eyebrow raising for me. Classes are near to end. She's invited many times over to her place (almost every weekend) after class and it was all cool. We used to drink and dance but i never had sex with her.

I am scarred to get involved with her. Because they say if it's too good to be true it probably is. She takes an auto rickshaw/ola Rick daily to the classes. Yesterday after class i refused to come to her house because it was a weekday and she said she wanted to spend time with me and will offer me money to skip work today. I did not give in.

What irks me is that I'm very average looking. Why is she into me that much ? I'm shorter than her too. There are literally 1000s willing to sleep with her. Her landlord too hits on her. She has made advances on me more than once and been visibly upset when i refused to meet her.

If you were wondering why she's here ? She's come all the way to india since nov2021 to claim a bandra flat that belonged to her relatives who had no legal heir. And that flat is very close to where she is staying on rent now. They were a husband and wife couple , the wife was the real sister of this Spanish females mother. She plans to claim the flat,sell it and go back home with the money. And till then she shall stay in india.

Her rented place is at Pali hill very close to zig zag road. Everything looks ok. But I'm afraid if she may get involved with me and cause trouble later on. You know white people come here and scam people many times (the opposite happens too) but who can you trust ? Her rent is around 1.2 lakhs a month(€1400) for her and that's not a problem for her. Should I trust this person if she invites me again tomorrow? 

TL;DR I'm not a virgin if y'all are wondering.

26/3/2022 Edit- resolved. After today's class i realised she just wanted a local guy who could help her resell her property. Legit every male she's met since November has been trying to get sexual with her, since i was the only male who wasn't making advances she pampered me more to get her work done. We are even more close friends now. Thanks reddit.