SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Kashmir’s Iran aid drive under vigil owing to ‘dubious middlemen, unchecked cash’ in the mix
AUTHOR: Ananya Bhardwaj
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/kashmirs-iran-aid-drive-under-vigil-owing-to-dubious-middlemen-unchecked-cash-in-the-mix/2889440/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
The overwhelming response from Kashmir, where people have been donating generously to support Iran amid its war with the US and Israel,
is posing a new challenge
for the Indian security establishment, ThePrint has learnt. “Unauthenticated collectors” are jumping into the mix to exploit public sentiment to misappropriate funds.
The involvement of these “opaque actors” also raises the risk of funds ending up in the wrong hands, potentially aiding militant or separatist activities, said sources in the Indian security establishment, adding that central enforcement agencies along with those in Jammu and Kashmir are keeping a close vigil on these donations, and those who do not exercise caution while making donations could also face legal action.
According to one source, some middlemen involved in collections have been found to be of a “dubious nature” which is why donors must exercise caution about where they channel their money or valuables. “There are intelligence inputs that certain unauthenticated, profit-seeking individuals are collecting funds in the name of humanitarian aid for Iran but diverting them for personal gain. There are also reports of individuals with past links to separatism being involved in organising and collecting these donations, which makes the situation more sensitive. Some have already been identified,” the source said.
Show Full Article
The source emphasised that the involvement of “opaque actors” and unregulated cash flows raises the risk of misappropriation and potential diversion of funds towards radicalisation. “Kashmir is extremely sensitive, with active separatist elements. There is a real risk of funds ending up in the wrong hands, potentially aiding militant or separatist activities.”
Acknowledging that the public sentiment in Kashmir to support the people of Iran in this time of crisis is genuine and overwhelming, the source underlined that donations must be routed only through established channels.
A recent case that served as a cautionary tale involved a local preacher in southern Kashmir. In March 2023, the State Investigation Agency (SIA) registered a case related to crowdfunding against Sarjan Barkati and others, alleging that they raised over Rs 1.5 crore through emotional appeals to the public for humanitarian needs.
“Under this pretext, large amounts of money were generated and then laundered, allegedly used to sustain secessionist and militant activities,” the source said.
Adding, “People must be careful to ensure that their donations do not land in the wrong hands. Our teams are keeping a close watch on this.”
A second source in the Indian security establishment said collection of donations in the form of jewellery, copper utensils and even livestock is underway across the region, creating logistical challenges in terms of storage, valuation and transfer.
The collections are being made by imams, local mohalla committees, imambaras, village committees, local village coordinators and cash camps.
“People are not just donating cash but also gold saved for their daughters’ weddings, even livestock. And these are not people with significant means—they are giving out of genuine emotion. But there is no structured monitoring framework for these door-to-door collections, which has created significant accountability gaps. It is difficult to verify the actual volume of funds collected and how they are ultimately used,” the second source said.
Adding, “This is why this has become a major concern that needs to be watched closely.”
On 14 March, the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran in New Delhi issued a humanitarian appeal through X, which prompted a wave of financial and material support in Kashmir. The embassy also shared an account number for voluntary contributions.
Several grassroots initiatives soon followed, including donation stalls, mosque-based appeals and door-to-door collection drives across the Kashmir valley. Many individuals without access to digital payment systems contributed in cash through these drives.
According to a third source, the fundraising campaign also took on a religious dimension, with many feeling obliged to contribute as part of Zakat and Sadaqah al-Fitr to support Iranians affected by the conflict.
“Cash, gold and silver valuables have been collected. Notably, a large portion of the donations, especially jewellery, has come from economically weaker sections, driven more by emotional and ideological motivations than financial capacity,” the source said.
In just a week, nearly Rs 18 crore was collected across Kashmir, excluding the amount directly deposited in the account of the Iranian embassy, with people in Budgam alone contributing Rs 9.4 crore, followed by Baramulla (Rs 4.5 crore) and Srinagar (around Rs 2 crore), said sources.
Meanwhile, Iran’s military issued a message Wednesday expressing gratitude to the people of Kashmir, while also vowing retaliation for the killing of their leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
The message, shared by Islamic Republic News Agency on X alongside an image of a Shahed-136 drone, read: “We are deeply grateful to the people of Kashmir for their support, and on your behalf, we will take revenge on the murderers of our leader (martyred Ayatollah Ali Khamenei).”
(Edited by Amrtansh Arora)
Also Read:
Iran’s embassy in India buckles under Pak pushback, deletes tweets thanking ‘people of Kashmir, India’