SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: [Scam Alert] FedEx, Mumbai cyber crime branch, money laundering suspect
DATE: 2023-09-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/16gt7no/scam_alert_fedex_mumbai_cyber_crime_branch_money/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR; a whole gang of scammers pretending to be Mumbai cybercrime police, tried to finnesse 98k rupees from me, be careful 
This was a full blown theater production

I was targeted by a very elaborate scam, spent close 2 hours on call to even bring up the money transaction hook

Here's the series of event that unfolded

1. I recieved a FedEx customer call informimg me about my parcel that was confiscated in Taiwan customs for containing a contraband item (140gm of MDMA) (this shock value and scary thing should have been redflag 1, to push me to defensive and take a hit to critical thinking)
2. The FedEx employee then shared the details of the parcel and helped me conclude that my aadhaar and contact number is being fraudulently and he was very "helpful" and advised me to file a cybercrime complaint, encouraged even
3. Then conviniently said he could pass me through and forward my call to the Mumbai cybercrime Andheri East branch (redflag 2, why would they have a direct line like this )
4. I talk to an inspector, he listens my case and routes me to a Skype invitation, the Skype user looks like a mumbai cybercrime account, The inspector takes my complaint, notes down the parcel details and let's me know, it's a stolen aadhar case, asks me for my aadhar to searches it through the database for other suspicious activity
5. The inspector puts me on hold and calls a police call center for requesting information ( redflag 3, I could hear their conversation very clearly, so I could hear it from the direct source, and trust it more, brilliant move)
6. The call centre operator replies with some "scary" information again, that my aadhar is linked with multiple bank accounts that have been found suspect in some high profile money laundering case) and says quote "please follow procedure 19062
7. Now the inspector has started investigating me, I am a suspect now, and under the lens, i become more complacent to clear my name 
8. He is able to extract all my financial information now - my CTC, MF + stock portfolio size, FD savings amounts, current balance in 2 of my active accounts ( but they didn't ask or get my direct authentication or indentifying information)
9. He also asks me to identify the gangster who is the convict in this case
10. He then takes my case and my file to the case incharge officer, DCP &lt;Real name of a cybercrime DCP&gt;, I googled his name and got a linked profile
11. I am talking to the DGP now ( redflag 3, why would a DGP talk to me without appointment like this on skype)
12. the DGP first takes me in confidence, explains the muddy waters I'm in wants to clear my name asap
13. Then they ask me to read a notice, it say a transaction of 98549 rupees will be initiated by the financial department of RBI, and I have to authenticate it, the money will be back in 15 min,
And this transaction will allow a RBI software to analyse my account and tell if it's clear or not (redflag 4, asking for money, this was the only one i caught )
14. I am suspicious now and ask him to let me consult my father, he tells me,it's a confidentiality issue you can't discuss this case with anyone 
15. I then ask him to please turn on his camera
16, he gets defensive and threatens me more that, if I don't co-operate they'll have to freeze my accounts and do it the hard way
17. I ask to consult a lawyer
18. He is more defensive and threatening and says ok do whatever you want
19. 2 min awkward silence
20. He disconnects the call