SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: [Self Post] These IRS Calls Are Scams, But Remember, Sometimes the Best Way to Fight Back is With a Little Kindness.
DATE: 2018-09-19
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/9gybvz/self_post_these_irs_calls_are_scams_but_remember/

--- POST TEXT ---

I just received the traditional automated “You one four tax charges to the IRS, Call us back at...”

I usually love these, to see how long I can get them to chase their tails, and with one number, I even got them to block MY incoming calls (had a day off, called close to 150 times; see how they like it) only today, after the usual runaround, I give an address to an old apartment in Queens, and the guy says he doesn’t
Believe me. We exchange insults, and something strikes me, and I say: “You know, man, you don’t have to do this. There are other ways out there to make money.” He stayed on the phone. What happened next, was a 27-minute phone call of him telling me about his life, how hard it was to scam people, how bad people treat each other, and that he wants to help the poor people in his home city, explaining how he became to work at the scam Center, and at one point, got so upset, that I BELIEVE he began to cry, if not, at least got choked up. At the end of the conversation, my girlfriend and stepdaughter were in the room listening, and the guy didn’t want to let me go. He asked me if I had eaten lunch yet, I told him I had to go make some, and he apologized, said thank you for talking with him, that he was going to find a new job, and to go have some lunch.

I actually liked this guy; he said he was from Korea, but currently in Virginia, but he sounded Indian. I really hope he finds a new job.

Sometimes, if you have some time to spare, and the PERSON (remember, they’re people, too) will stay on the phone, just tell them you aren’t mad, and tell them that there is always another way. 

I have about 20 minutes of the call recorded on my girlfriends iPhone, if anyone wants to hear it, just let me know how/where to upload such a long audio file and I’ll post it.