SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Kerala polls: EC’s move on voter list inclusion ‘infringes’ constitutional rights, says CPI(M)
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-23
URL: https://theprint.in/india/kerala-polls-ecs-move-on-voter-list-inclusion-infringes-constitutional-rights-says-cpim/2886661/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Thiruvananthapuram, Mar 23 (PTI) The CPI (M) in Kerala on Monday slammed the Election Commission’s decision not to consider voter list inclusion applications submitted after March 15 and said the move amounts to an “infringement of the constitutional right to vote”.
The ruling party also urged the EC to adhere to its earlier assurance allowing applications till the last date of filing nominations.
In a statement issued by its state Secretariat, the party said the poll panel should ensure that applications submitted up to the final date of nomination are considered for addition to the voters’ list.
Show Full Article
The CPI(M) alleged that a recent press release issued by the Election Commission, stating that applications submitted after March 15 would not be considered, amounts to an infringement on the constitutional right to vote.
It warned that the decision could deprive lakhs of people of their franchise.
Citing provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, the Marxist party said Section 23 allows inclusion of names in the electoral roll up to the last date of filing nominations.
It also claimed that election officials had conveyed this position during an all-party meeting held as part of poll preparations.
“The latest communication from the Commission contradicts earlier assurances. It is the responsibility of the Commission to inform the public in advance about the last date for inclusion of voters. Announcing such a restriction a week after the cut-off is unjust,” the statement said.
The CPI(M) further alleged that lakhs of names had already been deleted from the electoral rolls in the name of the Special Intensive Revision (SIR), without proportional additions.
It urged the EC to withdraw the move, stating that the poll body should encourage maximum participation in the democratic process rather than restrict voting rights.
The CPI (M) reaction came a day after Kerala Chief Electoral Officer Rathan U Kelkar had clarified that only voter registration applications submitted at least 10 days prior are being processed for inclusion in the electoral roll ahead of the April 9 Assembly elections.
Although applications for inclusion in the voter list can be submitted till the last date of nominations, the process of verification and addition to the rolls typically takes up to 10 days, he had said in a statement on Sunday.
As such, only applications received till March 15 would be processed in time, making those applicants eligible to vote in the forthcoming elections, Kelkar had added. PTI LGK ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.