SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Credit card guy is calling all my friends and colleagues, and openly threatening to continue if payment is not made
DATE: 2022-02-13
SCORE: 84
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/srhu0q/credit_card_guy_is_calling_all_my_friends_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello all, I am from Vizag, Andhra Pradesh.

I took a credit card from SBI in 2019 and had used it until the start of 2020. Had converted the outstanding debt into EMIs of INR 3415 per month. Due to my severe financial issues which involved me losing my job too, I wasn't able to pay the EMI since August 2021. Recently with my ancestral property being sold, I'm due to receive the advance which can clear the balance in full on the card. I admit to not being able to pick up calls due to the lack of funds for paying either the EMI or the total outstanding. Recently, I have been issued a legal notice from Areness Attorneys Advocates who are handling the issue of payment on 09/02/2022, in which they have asked me to pay the amount within seven days of the notice, or legal proceedings would follow. This is fine and acceptable and I accept the issue with nonpayment.

The main issue started Friday, 11/02, when my colleague called me and said that SBI had called them, and told him that "***his number is in CIBIL because I authorized him as a reference, that I confirmed that he can pay in the event I can't and that I should call the number that they provide and ask them to remove their number from CIBIL***". Within calling him and assuring him that I never gave his number, I started to receive calls from my friends and colleagues, with everyone stating the same thing: number was given to them personally by me as a reference and was placed in CIBIL, and that I had to call SBI to have it removed. Some of them started to abuse me, threatening that if anything happened to them they would screw me. One of my friends had me on the phone, and connected me to that guy, who I talked to and then called on his own number, where he demanded that I pay the amount of 50k without fail. I said that it wouldn't be possible in two days, that I need to ask someone to help. I asked that he not contact my friends and other contacts, which also included those I never saved in my contact list. He said he apologizes for the same, and that he won't call them.

I managed to contact a guy who was the mediator of the party that is buying our land and asked him to help, he said he can't provide small amounts like 50k, but can adjust 2 lakhs as finance. This was perfect for us as it would help clear the debts and we could pay them back after the advance is received. The problem is that the financier had delayed the funds and didn't send us the funds. After missing two calls, they started calling my friends again, this time from seven different numbers. After a lot of discussion with my friends, who agreed to manage until I paid the amount, my dad spoke with the SBI guy who blatantly and smugly replied that they will do this, that we can't stop them, and if in one hour they don't receive the funds, they will again start calling all of my contacts, blatantly acknowledging to the illegal calling they're doing and challenging us to do something about it. I called the cybercrime CI and told him the case, and he advised me to lodge a complaint with the nearest station. I'd like to know if there are any grounds to lodge a complaint solely for the purpose of preventing him from calling all others and give me a few days' time to clear the payment.

&amp;#x200B;

Edit: Guys I made a payment of INR 4900 on Monday 14/02, was expecting the calls to come in so that I could lodge a complaint against them for harassment, but they never came. Called all the friends and colleagues I know to ask if they got any such calls, then rang customer care. They confirmed what I made was the minimum payment on the card, and that there should be no phone calls until the next payment date. I followed it up with another call today, confirming again that me or my friends, family, or colleagues are gonna be harassed for the payment until the 26th of this month which is the next payment due date. Will be planning to clear the outstanding balance by then.