SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan among 18 booked under SC/ST Atrocities Act
DATE: 2025-01-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ibtnu6/infosys_cofounder_kris_gopalakrishnan_among_18/

--- POST TEXT ---

Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan among 18 booked under SC/ST Atrocities Act
The complainant who belongs to the tribal Bovi community, was a faculty member at the Centre for Sustainable Technology at the Indian Institute of Science
Updated - January 28, 2025 09:39 am IST - Bengaluru

Sadashivanagar police have registered a case against Infosys co-founder Senapathy Kris Gopalakrishnan and 17 members of Indian Institute of Science under the SC/ST Act based on a private complaint filed by a faculty member accusing them of dismissing him from service through a fake honey trap case and subjecting him to casteist abuse.

The complainant, Professor D. Sanna Durgappa, formerly with Centre for Sustainable Technologies, had approached the 71st city civil and session court. The court directed the jurisdictional police to register a case and investigate the matter. The case was registered on January 27.

Not every ‘insult’ against SC/ST persons can be considered as offence under SC/ST protection law, says Supreme Court

The complainant, Durgappa, who belongs to the tribal Bovi community, was a faculty member at the Centre for Sustainable Technology at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc).

According to the complaint, the accused used fake honey trap case to dismiss him from service in 2014. He further alleged that he was subjected to casteist abuse and threats.

All insults not offence under SC/ST Act: Supreme Court

Even the sexual harassment committee formed by IISC violated the SC ruling and did not have a single member from an NGO.

Even though IISc agreed to take him back, Prof. Durgappa alleged that he has not been taken back and that he could not get a job anywhere in India, and that he was defamed. He accused the Union Education Ministry of giving wrong replies.

Prof. Durgappa further alleged in his complaint that even though 30 sexual harassment complaints were registered, no action has been taken..

He accused the IISc of misusing ₹2,500 crore of funds and various directors had brought stay orders from courts over 15 times to scuttle all efforts to bring the alleged irregularities to light.

The complainant claims to be getting threats from the accused.

The accused in this case include Govindan Rangarajan, Sridhar Warrier, Sandya Vishwswaraih, Hari K V S, Dasappa, Balaram P, Hemalata Mhishi, Chattopadyaya K, Pradeep D Sawkar, and Manoharan.

There was no response from the IISc faculty or from Kris Gopalakrishnan, who serves as a member of the IISc Board of Trustees.