SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: I was scammed buy an online company
DATE: 2024-10-14
SCORE: 19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1g3mjir/i_was_scammed_buy_an_online_company/

--- POST TEXT ---

The name of the company is easy-buy camera and they are located in delhi, India. 

Here what happened also if someone planning to buy don't buy from them absolute scammers!! 

Here's what happened to me a few months ago. I was looking to buy a Fujifilm camera and came across an 36k camera on their site the photo and everything looked good so i emailed them for further details. 

A sales guy contacted me and said "very good camera perfect conditions etc etc to sell the product" I was sceptical so i asked for some photos and he sent a near perfect new camera image (camera I am talking about is Fujifilm xt200). I was happy and the price seemed right for the quality! So i paid on their site with no cost emi ( this is also a scam I will tell below). For 2 days I didn't hear from him ( I guess after I gave order they went searching for the camera) then after 2 days he sent me some images of a really beaten scratched up camera and was completely different from the image sent previously. As said I was angry and demanded a refund as it was not what I paid for. He said ok sir i will send you the right camera. 

Fast forward 3 days to a package arrives from them I was exited for my first camera ever and was just mortified to find a junk scratched up camera with issue in screen, diles and paint removed, leather torn 💔. 

I was as expected angry and told the guy this is a scam he got an attitude and stated to say it was my mistake. They had a 7 day return policy with ofc he wouldn't accept. Then I was ghosted for 7 days with no assistance on this scam. So i wrote a bad review. Within 1 hr he says delete the review and delete the review but won't accept that he scammed me. 

So i filed a case in the customer court. A few days after I get angry message saying "what is wrong with you" Then he said I will give you a no cost emi.. 

Here's the truth about no cost emi.. It's a normal emi i was scammed they have just written it just to fool you. I had to pay interest on this junk.. After the complaint to the court he said that after 6 months I will be refunded the emi amount it's been 6 months since nothing has happened. 

Also they promised accessories never got any battery of the camera was dead also. 

So basically they buy junk shows as near new. Ask you to pay and send you junk and make tons of money. 

PLEASE DO NOT BUY FROM THEM GO TO A LOCAL STORE SEE IN HAND AND ONLY BUY. I WAS SCAMMED I HOW NO ONE ELSE GETS SCAMMED