SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: I was scammed last year but the scammers keep trying to maintain contact I think? Help please!
DATE: 2024-04-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1buyo57/i_was_scammed_last_year_but_the_scammers_keep/

--- POST TEXT ---

Mid last year I lost a LOT of money due to an online scam, and I found out I wasn’t the only victim because a couple days later a friend of mine fell victim to the same scam where basically they say your Amazon account has been compromised, and then say you are a victim of identity theft and “transfer” you to a service of the crown member claiming to be from a fraud department. I’ll say it was a rlly well thought out scam because they had the identity of the service of the crown member they were pretending to be down pat, from their badge ID number to no accent. They told me that my money would be reimbursed and they attempted to keep reassuring me by calling me (with a spoofed number that matched the phone number on the official government of Canada website) over the next couple days saying that a cheque is coming but it never came and eventually they stopped calling. They held me on the phone and told me I would be charged with the crimes someone was allegedly using my identity for if I hung up, and unfortunately I didn’t know any better back then but I wish I had told someone in the moment. They told me something about confirming the money that was mine be the money that was being used for criminal activity, and I guess I was too trusting because after the whole scam was done, they gave me (I’m assuming fake) names of individuals who had allegedly used my identity for money laundering. But anyways fast forward a couple weeks later I get a call but not from the same number but from a person who claimed to be a police officer in India, they already knew my information and said something about them knowing and being aware of a financial scam coming from India to Canada, and they asked me to send a statement to an email that they claim is for the police station. I’ve reported this incident to the RCMP before and they called me saying they have found the individual conducting the scam and he has been arrested, however because the individual turned my money into crypto, there is unfortunately no way to retrieve it because they assumed it is long gone (valid). They also said that I was not the only person that this happened to. I went to my bank at the time and they said they can’t really do anything about it (valid). BUT ever since then every once in a while I’ll get a message on wattsapp or iMessage pertaining to the incident asking me to reach out to some police station in india to make a statement. I did a little bit of research and found an aritical saying something a long the lines of India trying to provide some sort of compensation to victims of cyber crimes that came out of India I’ll link it here. And the email they give me when I look it up it has a website but I’m not sure if it’s part of the scam as well, and I’m just curious for help on more information about this if anyone knows.