SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: QR code scam in OLX India!
DATE: 2024-06-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1d74r5z/qr_code_scam_in_olx_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

I put up an ad on OLX to sell my mattress, and within a minute of the ad going live. I received 4 to 5 enquiries about my post. I got really excited and replied to the first guy and sent him my number. He immediately gives me a call and sends me a “Hi” on my WhatsApp. He asks me all the details about the mattress like how old is it? What is it size? What is its thickness, etc and I quoted him the price and he agreed to it without even negotiating, and this is when I saw other messages where people were willing to pay the money that I had quoted. that’s when I immediately replied to this guy saying that there are a lot more customers that are willing to buy the same mattress at higher price so I would get back to him later. He refused to cut the call and he asked me to simply quote whatever the price is and he would be willing to pay, so I quoted almost double the amount, and he said “add 500 rs more to it, and I will pay you the entire money”, and I got a little sketchy, but I was happy, so he asked me to send me the address and he asked me to send me my QR code. I did, then he told me that before he makes the full payment, he wants to make a one rupee payment just to make sure that I’m receiving the amount, so I immediately told him to scan my PayTM scanner which I had sent him as an image to scan, instead of doing that, he sends me another scanner, which says “receive one rupee” on top of it, and he asked me to scan this QR code and after that, I was supposed to receive the one rupees, but thank God to Reddit, I immediately opened it searched about Scams on OLX!!!! Obviously because I found this very sketchy, apparently OLX scammers are everywhere, and I saw people who had shared Their stories of QR code scams, this is where I understood that if I had scanned that one rupees instead of receiving one rupee, I would have lost one rupee from my account and he would have immediately paid me one rupee from his account to make it look like I received my money, but on the contrary, I was losing the money so when he would send me the actual amounts QR code later on that is when I will be paying him that amount, not vice versa. I immediately called him out and asked him to stop scamming people and to go get a life. He cut my call and I reported his number both on OLX and Whatsapp and blocked him! so guys be aware of scammers like this whenever you are to receive money, you don’t have to scan any QR code, the person that is to pay is always to scan a QR code.
And that scammer was so adamant and persistent to not cut the call During this whole time, when I did cut it in between while I was reading Reddit, he called me continuously until I picked his call up. I can’t believe there are such scary people out there.
Thank God to our community that I was saved from getting scammed today.

Hope this helps. 
Cheers ☺️