SUBREDDIT: r/personalfinanceindia
TITLE: Applying for so many positions but not getting shortlisted.
DATE: 2024-05-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinanceindia/comments/1d45est/applying_for_so_many_positions_but_not_getting/

--- POST TEXT ---

Decisive, strategic and performance-driven professional targeting senior level assignments with an organization of high repute preferably in Bengaluru

Core Competencies
Financial Analysis
Strategic Planning
Data Analysis and Interpretation
Compliance and Regulatory Adherence
Revenue Maximization
Due Diligence
Portfolio &amp; Wealth Management
Mergers &amp; Acquisitions (M&amp;A)
Process Improvement
Compliance and Regulatory Adherence
Networking Skills
Team Management &amp; Leadership
Problem Solver

Soft Skills
Critical Thinker
Collaborator
Analytical
 
 
Profile Summary
 
❖ A result-oriented professional with nearly 2 years of experience in Wealth Management and Advisory Support.
❖ Proven track record in conducting comprehensive financial analysis, budgeting, and forecasting to support strategic decision-making.
❖ Expertise in rendering sustained investment advisory services to premier clients as per their financial needs; monitoring the database of High Net Worth Individual (HNI) customers while ensuring adherence to service standards and compliance in collaboration with various stakeholders; managed a book size of over 25 million $.
❖ Directing the entire Wealth Management Operations including wealth products, process audits &amp; improvements, reports automation and investment reconciliations.
❖ Skilled in identifying financial risks, conducting risk assessments assessing the client's suitability for inclusion in the portfolio based on reputation and implementing mitigation strategies to safeguard the financial health of the organization.
❖ Collaborative approach to working with cross-functional teams, providing financial guidance and support to departments beyond finance for cohesive business management, as a result securing additional projects.
❖ Ensured compliance with financial regulations and internal policies, providing expertise in navigating complex regulatory landscapes.
❖ A result-oriented individual with strong analytical, communication, interpersonal, presentation and organizational skills; possess excellent numerical &amp; analytical capabilities to serve effective solutions.

Education
❖ 2022: MBA (Finance)
❖ 2020: Bachelors in Science (Biotechnology)

Technical Skills
❖ MS Excel, PowerPoint
 
Work Experience
Apr’22- Present as Financial &amp; Business Management Analyst
 
Key Result Areas:
❖ Client Service Support:
o Framing &amp; delivering Wealth Management solutions for HNI clients, analysing clients’ financial requirements and closely monitoring their portfolio performance, thereby enhancing their returns on investments and sustaining &amp; enhancing long-term wealth.
o Providing clients from Singapore, Australia, Indonesia, and the Philippines with regular updates on their accounts, investments, and regulatory changes.
o Developing and maintaining strong client relationships through proactive communication and exceptional service
❖ Client Acquisition and Business Development:
o Suggesting effective strategies for identifying and attracting potential clients to generate business for the firm; given rise to approx. 100-500 million potential prospects.
❖ KYC Screening:
o Conducting thorough KYC screenings and due diligence on new and existing clients to prevent money laundering and other financial crimes.
o Maintaining and updating client KYC records in accordance with regulatory requirements and internal policies.
o Identifying and escalating potential risks or compliance issues during the KYC process.
❖ Client Onboarding &amp; Maintenance:
o Analyzing the end-to-end client onboarding process, ensuring a seamless and efficient experience for new clients.
o Maintaining accurate and up-to-date client records and managing client data in CRM systems.
❖ Due Diligence:
o Performing comprehensive due diligence on potential and existing clients, including background checks and financial assessments to identify &amp; mitigate risks.
o Analyzing and interpreting financial statements, credit reports, and other relevant documents.
o Preparing detailed due diligence reports and presenting processes reflective of the current business environment to senior management.
o Facilitating projects from concept to completion by working actively and with due diligence to solve clients’ issues and improve clients’ experience.
❖ Client Lifecycle Management:
o Facilitating the client lifecycle from onboarding to offboarding, ensuring high levels of client satisfaction and retention.
o Monitoring client activities and transactions to identify opportunities for additional services or risk mitigation.
❖ Hedge Fund &amp; Private Equity Analysis:
o Executing in-depth analysis of hedge funds and private equity investments to support investment decisions.
o Preparing investment reports and presentations for internal and external stakeholders.
❖ Process Optimization:
o Evaluating existing processes and formulating improvement plans; engaged in operational excellence projects, aiming to reduce man-hours and monitor deliverable progress.
❖ Organizational Systems Assessment:
o Assessing various organizational systems to identify issues in workflow, communication, and resource utilization.
❖ Innovative Problem-Solving
o Providing effective solutions for challenging situations by utilizing strong analytical and problem-solving skills; analysing exception approvals, particularly in scenarios such as onboarding non-core clients, assessing anti-money laundering activities, tracking fraud incidents, and managing end-to-end case resolutions while maintaining client relationships.
❖ Regulatory Compliance and Risk Management:
o Driving Regulatory Compliance efforts to strengthen the Enterprise Risk Management Framework through proactive &amp; sustained compliance.
o Leveraging comprehensive knowledge of regulatory guidelines in mitigating/managing probable risks and reducing/eliminating the impact.
o Steering efforts as a business analyst, bridging the compliance and technology teams during the development of tools and products for the core compliance team.
o Assisting in filing regulatory obligations through complex quantitative and qualitative data analysis, liaising with diverse teams on long-term projects to uphold the firm's high compliance standards.
❖ Client Engagement Activities:
o Facilitating client engagement activities to assist bankers in cultivating and driving client engagement, thereby reinforcing and strengthening relationships.
❖ Business Growth and Account Management
o Orchestrating business growth by delivering high-quality solutions, establishing high value HNI accounts; developing customer retention strategies.
o Managing the process of transferring clients who do not meet the threshold to a different segment, ensuring effective handling and resolution.
❖ Portfolio Strategy Support:
o Assisting bankers to strategize portfolio arrangement, emphasizing the addition of value to the scorecard by ensuring all metrics are consistently up-to-date.
o Achieving compliance with regulatory projects and taxation requirements of the clients.
❖ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR):
o Organizing a corporate social responsibility initiative on behalf of the company.
 
Internship
Apr’21-Jun’21:
o Crafted a strategy presentation outlining 150 prospects with a cumulative value of 800 million, receiving appreciation from the Business Manager and fostered warm relationships with the prospects, ultimately contributing to the successful conversion of these prospects into clients.
o Created a presentation outlining effective prospecting strategies aimed at identifying potential UHNIs as clients.
 
Projects Undertaken
o UHNI Prospect Research
o KYC Document Remediation, Monitoring Ongoing/ Pending Documentation
o Enhancement of Client Engagement
o Scorecard Analysis of Bankers
o Pilot Testing of New Tools for Clients
o Training &amp; Development
o Enhanced SOPs for various topics through collaborative efforts with subject matter experts and multiple teams.
 
Notable Accomplishments
o Conferred with Step Up Award for Client Experience Improvement.
o Bagged appreciation for Lead Generation Activity.
o Achieved a 100% reduction in remediation time, bringing it down from 12-15 weeks to just 3 weeks; along with achieving timely resolution of pending documentation remediation for non-core clients in the risk control segment concerning risk alert items.
o Successfully leveraged networking skills to achieve a high approval Service Level Agreement (SLA), ensuring minimal business impact and seamless access to essential information.
o Seized the opportunity to collaborate with internal business managers, contributing to the seamless onboarding of new joiners.
o Established an employee resource dedicated to supporting the goals of the BRG working with Senior Managers &amp; HODs creating presentation and for communication.
o Acknowledged as Business School Scholarship Awardee.