SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My dad got scammed, what can we do?
DATE: 2019-04-09
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/baxr6u/my_dad_got_scammed_what_can_we_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

Guys, I feel SO bad for my dad. He is the sweetest guy and is very trusting. He’s one of the smartest people I know, he works in medicine and basically a walking encyclopedia... but somehow very gullible and constantly falling for fraud and scammy type shit. 

The other day, he got a call from his “bank” saying an old credit card he never uses had an amazon overcharge of $8. So he googled the phone number for amazon to get things cleared up. He was trying to shut down the account. He’s the one who googled the number and called himself! 

So the number he called, he was greeted by an Indian guy named Roger. Fuck Roger you guys. Roger explained to him that he needed to get the information off of the credit card, which my dad had lost. He knew everything except for the expiration. So Roger said no problem, somehow was like let me help you and got onto a screen share of my Dad’s computer. 

This is where it gets really bad. So because apparently my dad didn’t know the credit card info, Roger said that he needed to go down to the grocery store to buy an amazon gift card. That way he would be able to get the charges reversed and Roger could shut down the account. So, my Dad drives down to our local grocery store and buys a $300 amazon gift card. ($300 wtf?!) he texts Roger a picture of the gift card and the numbers on the back. Apparently the gift card “didn’t work”. Roger sent my Dad an email with a fake amazon disclosure at the bottom saying that the money was put back into his account. He tells my dad that he needs to go back to the store and buy another gift card, this one has to be google pay. So, dad buys a $300 google pay gift card, sends Roger the picture. Surprise! It doesn’t work again. Back to the store and my dad buys a $200 google pay gift card this time, sends Roger the picture and yep, doesn’t work again. The whole time he’s sending official looking amazon emails saying money has been refunded. 

The FOURTH time my dad heads down to the grocery store to buy Roger a FOURTH gift card, the manager of the store stops my dad to ask him why he’s buying so many high value gift cards. My dad explained the situation and the store manager was like “sir, you’re being scammed”. 

My dad is devastated. $800 is a lot of money for him. He filed a police report, but they said there’s not much they can do because handing someone a gift card is like handing them cash. They were kind of dicks to him about it. Does anyone here have any thoughts? I want to help him so badly.