SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: New Scam in Yeshwantpur, Mathikere side
DATE: 2024-11-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1gyuqux/new_scam_in_yeshwantpur_mathikere_side/

--- POST TEXT ---

While I was crossing some signal nearIISc (Tata Institute) in Yeshwantpur. 
A person came and asked for help. He said that he has cash and he wants amount on PhonePe. It looked reasonable that he will just give the cash and I can make an online payment, and then he will be able to do his whatever business that was getting stuck due to in availability of Online Money. 
He said that his account is temporarily not working, and he needs money now because today is the last day to do some payment. Then when I agreed, he said that his friends are also helping him to acquire this online money for return of cash on some other signals as that day was the last day to do the Payment, so his friends were helping him. He called his friends. They came, and after that, this person showed his QR code and ask me to send money via that QR code. Just then, recalling all the fraud incidents and also the fact that I have known this person for literally last one minute so I can’t 
believe him. Thus, I demanded the cash first. To this, he was a little sceptical, which made me further sceptical. Now his friend who had the cash took out his cash and started counting now. Obviously, another thing was that he was double counting a few notes and just to show that they had full amount cash, he demonstrated that they had the cash, but at that point, even double counting was in the red flag that I was noting. Whether because that flag, how tightly he was holding the bunch of notes. Then I pretended that I believed his counting and yes, he has the money and placed my hand in front of him to get the money. Then he said the payment has to be reflected first and then only he can give the cash blah blah blah blah bullshit. At that point, I was fully convinced that I should move out of it. That just I said that you came to me for help, so you should take the risk of giving me the money and then anticipating the payment. Why I should take the risk because I don’t need the help. And saying this, I moved on. They were there abusing me and saying whatever nonsense. 

But the thing that this is so alarming is that they were doing it in sync like multiple people more than three at least at different signals and potentially scaling their fraud. Secondly, the other thing was that only one of the three had the said cash, but still, three people were active with the same story. This suggests that they are now prone to this lifestyle of fraud and are now down to their last few cash. And are in desperate need. Now, once when they have tasted the greed of acquiring money without any hard work. This will just further push them into darkness and will make them do something that are difficult to even imagine. 

Just wanted to let a community know that something like this might be widespread in other regions also. And while discussing this incident with my friends, I came to know about a similar fraud. Where in this case, they were just wanting to get money, paid via PhonePe, and had no intention to give the cash. But in other versions, they did actually give the cash, but the QR code was bugged and more than necessary information of the account was revealed to the fraudsters. And money more than the cash, they gave was withdrawn from the account. There are multiple different versions of this. So maybe you are a kind person and wanting to help, but in these times, instead of helping others, first think about yourself.