SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: TRAI Mumbai Police scam
DATE: 2024-08-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1elia9w/trai_mumbai_police_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Some background: a few months ago my number seemed to have been spoofed, and hundreds of people got calls from it. I know this because I kept getting calls from people saying they had missed my call, when I'd never made any. This stopped after a few weeks but can perhaps explain why I got so scared by this scam call that happened today.

This morning, I received a call in which a sophisticated automated machine claimed it was TRAI and said my number and all numbers associated with my ID would be blocked in two hours because of some malicious calls which had been reported. I got frightened because of the previous experience I'd had with spoofing.

It asked me to press 9 to proceed to speak to an operative. The operative spoke politely and calmly and *extracted my name* from me by asking me to confirm my identity. I did that (just my name). They asked me to wait while they checked their system. They then told me an FIR was launched against me in Andheri, Mumbai (I don't live in Maharashtra) and provided me with an address and the number in question, neither of which were mine. They said they would block all my numbers and blacklist my Aadhar, preventing me from securing another number. They even provided me with an FIR number.

If I asked for any information from them, such as what Aadhar was linked to this number, they kept saying they're just an operative. They told me my number would be blocked unless I got a "clarification notice" from the Mumbai police. I asked them how I could contact the police and they said they could redirect me since there wasn't much time left.

I was redirected to a number which was suspiciously answered almost immediately, where a man asked for my details and spoke politely at the start. I told them my case and they then got really aggressive. Said I was facing three years in jail, and insisted that the number in question was linked to my ID. They then told me to *save a number* and to message this number my name and FIR number. I was to receive a police call from their interrogation room.

A few minutes later I got sent the documents of a real cop in the cybercrime division on WhatsApp via this number I'd added, as well as a letter from TRAI dated with today's date. Then I got a video call where a man in a police uniform in an office with an old school desk and a picture of Ambedkar and an Indian flag on the wall behind him. He then redirected me to the cop whose ID I'd been sent.

The cop was brutal, interrogated me and brought up all sorts of charges such as drug peddling and malicious calls. He was practically yelling at me. I asked him to turn on his camera so I could confirm it was really him and this pissed him off. He said they were in an interrogation room and that they don't turn on their camera. *My camera was on all this time*, and they claimed to be recording the call.

The cop asked me to pull my Aadhar card on screen, but I refused to comply. He then yelled at me, asking me not to waste his time and that he would send this video to the court and I could expect to be arrested. Then he hung up on me.

I was really shaken. Am I vulnerable in any way? They:
1) know my name
2) have a video recording of me
3) briefly had access to my WhatsApp profile picture

Most importantly, was this a scam? I can't look up the FIR number because the Mumbai police needs a filing date which I wasn't given.