SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Fraudulent builder in Bangalore. Need to claim damages and legal fees.
DATE: 2020-07-07
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/hmv67s/fraudulent_builder_in_bangalore_need_to_claim/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR: Asshole builder gave us advance amt in promise of joint venture and signed unregistered MoU (but notarized), cut off communication. After 18 months of no contact, we signed a JDA with another builder. When we returned token advance to Asshole builder, he filed a suit against us and is deliberately delaying the hearing, causing us and new builder great strain. 

We have been under financial duress of late and decided to give one of our properties to a builder for a joint venture/joint development. We had only signed an unregistered but notarized MoU and a token amount of 5L was paid to us. Builder never gave us a draft JDA to sign and register and kept pestering us for demolition. We refused, and a little later, he stopped taking our calls and there was no communication between us.

As our financial condition got increasingly desperate, we got another builder to agree to our terms and with full knowledge of previous MoU, he signed a JDA with us and registered it. Even paid us a big amount as it was registered. This happened 18 months after first MoU was signed. We sent legal notices terminating the earlier MoU and returned the token amount. No reply. 

Finally, he filed a suit of non performance against us and produced fake bills for architects and what not (he had never shown us any designs). He's claiming compensation and is playing the victim card. However, he's also cleverly delaying the legal process such that we are drained financially and we relent before hearings take place. It has been 8 months since he filed the suit btw. This joker is a fraud and needs to pay for his ego, we are never going to pay him even a single penny and on top of that, he tells our lawyer that we must sign the agreement with him. 

We have a lawyer already. There are disagreements between our lawyer and the new builder's lawyer on how to go about the case, but in addition, old builder's lawyer either doesn't file a reply to our application or brings up frivolous stuff such as fake bills few days before a hearing, delaying it further. 

My question is, how long is the legal process going to take after hearings and can he delay it further by producing more fake bills and what not. Also, can he appeal in the high court and drag our case much longer?

Secondly, is there any way to claim for damages and legal fees we have to pay from this fraudulent bastard since we're already financially insecure (don't want to use new builder's amount before case settles) and he's just bleeding us with unnecessary costs to satisfy his ego.