SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Youth Congress shirtless at AI summit: ‘PM compromised’ slogans, BJP’s ‘anti-national’ swipe at Rahul
AUTHOR: Samridhi Tewari
DATE: 2026-02-20
URL: https://theprint.in/india/pm-compromised-us-deal-betrayal-bare-chested-youth-congress-protest-at-ai-summit-4-held/2859500/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Indian Youth Congress (IYC) members staged a “shirtless” demonstration inside an exhibition hall at the AI Impact Summit venue in Bharat Mandapam here on Friday, with police saying they have arrested four protesters, and are taking legal action against them.
According to police sources, the
Congress youth wing
protesters entered hall number 5
and
began raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A few protesters stood bare chested, holding white T-shirts, with the PM’s face on it.
The incident triggered a brief commotion during the event as it happened while delegates,
government officials and international participants were still attending sessions at the high-profile summit in New Delhi.
Show Full Article
Additional Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Devesh Kumar Mahla said, the incident happened around 12.30 pm.
He said they managed to enter the premises after registering online using QR codes
available on the Summit website. It can be used by anybody to register for an entry to the venue.
“The accused belong to the IYC. They have been identified as Krishna Hari, 35, a resident of Bihar. He is the National Coordinator. Kundan Yadav, 33, a resident of Bihar, State Coordinator. Ajay Kumar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, state vice president, and Narsimha Yadav, a resident of Telangana, National Coordinator of IYC,” Mahal said.
He said they were wearing sweaters and jackets when they entered the venue “and were wearing ‘objectionable T-shirts’ underneath”.
“And when they entered hall number 5, they removed their clothes, waved their T-shirts, and protested. Appropriate legal action will be taken. Others involved in the incident will be identified,” he added.
Sources said the protesters were removed immediately and taken to the Tilak Marg police station. “No one will be allowed to breach law and order,” said a police source.
Later, police sources said the four protesters were formally placed under arrest Friday evening. “They will be produced before the Patiala House Court today. Delhi Police will be adding serious charges, since they also engaged in scuffle with the cops,” said another police source, adding they are also investigating into “larger conspiracy” in the matter.
An FIR has also been registered under Section 61(2) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) for hurt and assault to the public servant, disobeying the public servant, unlawful assembly, violating prohibitory orders.
Delhi Police conducted raids across Delhi-NCR to apprehend protesters. Police sources said they are identifying protesters based on over 15 video clips.
In one of the videos that went viral after the incident, the protesters could be heard chanting slogans such as “PM is compromised” and “the youth of the country is no longer silent”.
Another video shows that as the protesters marched out of the hall and towards the lobby, they stood against the AI Summit backdrop, shouting “PM is compromised”.
सवाल पूछा जा रहा है कि आखिर क्यों युवा कांग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं को AI Summit के अंदर Compromised PM के खिलाफ आवाज़ उठाने की जरूरत पड़ी?
जिस देश का मीडिया, सिस्टम और खुद प्रधानमंत्री ही compromised हो चुके हों, उसके खिलाफ आवाज़ उठाने का मंच आखिर बचता ही कौन-सा है?
सड़कों पर…
pic.twitter.com/oG81jHaF0M
— Uday Bhanu Chib (@UdayBhanuIYC)
February 20, 2026
A guest carrying an authenticated entry badge told them that it is they “who were compromised” as this incident has “tarnished the image of India”. The guest urged security personnel to take them away from the venue.
Also Read:
India must treat US trade deal as a temporary reprieve. It is not for keeps
‘US deal a betrayal’
In response to the incident, Indian Youth Congress National President Uday Bhanu Chib said, “Today at the AI Summit, the IYC made it clear that the youth of the country will no longer remain silent.”
“‘PM is compromised’ is not just a slogan, but the anger of millions of unemployed youth. This trade deal with the U.S. is a betrayal of the interests of our farmers and the public, which will only benefit the US. Peaceful protest is our right in a democracy, and we will continue to raise the voice of the youth,” he said.
He said the IYC is not against the AI Summit.
“We are against any compromise on India’s interests. When the
(interests of the)
country’s farmers are being compromised, anti-India trade agreements are being signed, and the youth is being pushed into hate politics while keeping them unemployed, should we remain silent? This country belongs to 1.4 billion citizens,” he said.
If the “PM is compromised”, it does not mean the public should remain silent, he said.
“If we know how to follow the path shown by Mahatma Gandhi, we also know how to follow the path shown by Sardar Bhagat Singh. We will never allow the interests of the country’s youth and farmers to be compromised,” he said.
“If we protest on the streets, we are stopped. Social media posts against the government are removed under the guise of IT rules. So what recourse do we have? We are against any compromise
on
India’s interests, which is why we held this protest today,” he added.
आज यूथ कांग्रेस के साथियों ने देश के नौजवानों, किसानों और व्यापारियों की नाराजगी को विरोध प्रदर्शन के रूप में जाहिर किया है।
नरेंद्र मोदी ने अमेरिका के साथ ट्रेड डील कर, हमारे नौजवानों, किसानों और व्यापारियों के हितों पर प्रहार किया है। मोदी ने अमेरिका के हाथों देश गिरवी रख दिया…
— Congress (@INCIndia)
February 20, 2026
‘Anti-national’
The incident triggered a strong reaction from the BJP, with its spokesperson Pradeep Bhandari saying the Congress party has committed an “anti-national” act.
“This was the World AI Summit, led by India. It wasn’t a personal political forum. Just as an anti-national person feels uncomfortable, irritated, and jealous of the country’s prestige, the Gandhi-Vadra family instructed their Congress workers in the same way and committed this anti-national act.
“Today, the Congress party has once again proven its hatred for the country. If even one per cent of patriotism remains in Rahul Gandhi and the Gandhi-Vadra family, they should appear before the nation today, and they should apologise to the nation,” he told the media.
Narsimha Yadav, one of the main organisers of today’s naked protest at the AI Summit, has pictures with Rahul Gandhi.
This should leave no doubt that the disruption was not incidental, it was orchestrated. Such theatrics on an international stage only damage India’s image and…
pic.twitter.com/rlnAm2yZ20
— Amit Malviya (@amitmalviya)
February 20, 2026
After the incident, Delhi Police heightened security at the venue, with officials saying additional police personnel have been deployed, and access within parts of the complex was closely monitored.
Later, members of the BJP youth wing—Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha—protested outside Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s residence. The Delhi Police
detained
some of them.
Meanwhile, speaking in the Uttar Pradesh assembly, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath condemned the protest. “Today, the youth wing of the Congress party attempted a shameful incident at Bharat Mandapam. An attempt has been made to tarnish India’s image globally, and we condemn it.”
“These people want to play games at the expense of the country. Where people from over 100 countries are participating, they are trying to spread anarchy by creating such chaos. Every Indian should condemn this incident. Strict action should be taken against those behind this,” he said.
This is an updated version of the story
(Edited by Ajeet Tiwari)
Also Read:
AI Summit is a snapshot of today’s India — intelligence, competence in short supply