SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Am I in trouble? Old employer not providing experience certificate. Big4 company released offer and asking to submit all past employment certificates. Tricky situation.
DATE: 2024-03-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bnxat9/am_i_in_trouble_old_employer_not_providing/

--- POST TEXT ---

I recently got an offer from a big4 company and they are asking me to send all my previous employment documents. Problem is, I don’t have my 1st employer's experience/relieving letter/service letter.

A little history about that old company:
I used to work in the Mechanical engineering sector before I switched into IT sector just before covid hit. This is a power engineering company based in Hyderabad. They are a service provider company that provide Power Plant operations &amp; maintenance, overhauling, repairs, manpower and other services to major power plants and industries across the country. I was deputed at one of their client locations outside the city. After a while I couldn't continue with the grind, decided to quit that job and to pursue software job.

I discussed my career plans with my then manager. He suggested me to put down a long unpaid leave of absence letter instead of resigning, saying that I may return to work within that period if my career plans didn't work out. I trained my replacement the next one month as ordered by my manager. On the last day I submitted a typed and printed letter to my manager asking for 2 months unpaid leave, and left on good terms(however I didn't keep a soft copy of this letter, this was in 2019).

When I was on the second month of my long leave, I received an email, a termination order that read: "Due to management decisions, unit-1 stopped operations leading to cut down of manpower and hence your services are no longer required. However we are keen to have you back and we will let you know if we find any role suitable for you at our other client sites". They lost the contract deal with the client I was working at and they packed everything up. During this time I was too deep into pursuing my software learning and IT career and didn't care much about it. I wasn't going to go back anyway. Few months later I go Jr. Developer job as a fresher through a referral. And all the following years I have worked with small companies who didn't care about all my past employers.

Fast-forward to now, when the big4 company asked to submit all previous employments relieving/service letters, I realised that old company never gave me a experience/service letter. All that I have from them is the offer letter, termination order and the Id card.

On the resume, while I was applying and interviewing, I excluded that company and only included my IT experiences to keep my profile relevant to the role I was applying for.
But that company is visible on my EPFO service history since they deducted my PF. I learned that all big MNCs check PF service history while performing background checks. I could simply not tell the new company anything about that old experience but they're going to find out on their own anyway. It could raise a red flag questioning why I didn't show that experience when submitting the BGV details form. "Has this guy absconded? Did he commit a fraud?"

So I reached out to that old employer last Friday. I wrote an email to which they didn't respond. I then called them a day later and explained everything. They made me talk to their HR&amp;AR head. That guy was less than helpful and there came a new twist in the story. He says "after that contract ended, all the records are lost and all the employees data has been deleted, we cannot do anything for you now". The BGV would definitely fail with the way he was talking to me. When the BGV team is going to call them he would simply say "we don't have any data about that person".

This is a nightmare. All he has to do now is take reference of my offer and termination letters and print me a new experience letter. He is a very stubborn middle-aged man. I explained how important this is to my career and life and he still repeats the same words like how a customer care executive would. To make this more difficult, all the old staff are gone now including my then manager.

Their desk guy suggested me to come to their office and meet that HR &amp;AR head in person and try to work it out with him that way. I called that HR&amp;AR head guy again today and he says that he won't be available to meet in person for another week and asked me to come next Monday. But the big4 company is going to send me background verification form tomorrow to submit complete details about my past work experiences.

I don't know what to do now. Should I explain all this to the new big4 HR exactly what happened or should I completely not mention that experience in which case they may find out and flag my profile red and withdraw my offer? Please put down your suggestions and workarounds, those who have experience with stuff like this. Thanks a lot.