SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: ED identified Rs 36,000 crore in cybercrime proceeds in 257 cases till Feb 28: Govt
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/india/ed-identified-rs-36000-crore-in-cybercrime-proceeds-in-257-cases-till-feb-28-govt/2887557/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 24 (PTI) The Enforcement Directorate identified proceeds of crime worth Rs 35,925.58 crore in 257 cybercrime cases it undertook till February 28, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday.
In a written reply, Minister of State for Home Affairs, Bandi Sanjay Kumar, said that under an established mechanism, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the law enforcement agencies share information, including matters related to cybercrime, through their respective nodal officers.
“In addition, the ED shares information with other agencies under Section 66(2) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), whenever a contravention pertaining to the relevant agency is noticed during investigation under the Act,” Kumar said.
Show Full Article
The minister said the ED is also using SAHYOG, Samanvaya and the cyber police portal maintained by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).
The Samanvaya platform serves as a management information system (MIS), data repository, and coordination platform for the law enforcement agencies for cybercrime data sharing and analytics, Kumar said.
It provides analytics-based interstate linkages of crimes and criminals involved in cybercrime complaints in various states/UTs, he added.
“The ED also uses the Inter-operable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) portal to access cybercrime-related FIRs registered by various state police forces,” the minister said.
“As per the ED, till 28.02.2026, it has taken up around 257 cases related to cybercrime for investigation under the provisions of PMLA, resulting in the identification of proceeds of crime worth Rs 35,925.58 crore. The data regarding the scale of cybercrime proceeds, state-wise, is not maintained by the ED,” Kumar said.
The Centre issued a comprehensive standard operating procedure (SOP) on January 2, providing a uniform, victim-centric framework for handling complaints through the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (NCRP) and the Citizen Financial Cyber Fraud Reporting and Management System (CFCFRMS), he said.
The SOP outlines a dedicated coordination mechanism to enhance collaboration, particularly with the states and UTs, whose police are integral stakeholders in the system, the minister said. PTI ABS ARI
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.