SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: What should I do now?
DATE: 2025-03-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1jmkixn/what_should_i_do_now/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today(29 March), I had been to withdraw cash in the Basavanagudi Branch Canara Bank ATM as I had got my first Internship pay(I'm in 4th year Engineering and doing my internship currently). There I had already withdrawn 20k, where I happened to meet a guy prolly in his 25's. He approached me and asked me If I can give him Rs 10k in cash and that he would pay me through NetBanking. He also on a broken and a sad tone told me that his mother has been admitted to a hospital nearby, and his number of transactions has been exhausted for the day, hence he is in need of that amount. I was reluctant at the beginning to entangle myself in this transaction but he wasn't letting me go at all and was continuously pleading me for this favour. So finally I agreed for this thing and gave him my Account Number. This is the main mistake I did committ---&gt;&gt;I didn't check out If he is actually opening the netbanking payment gateway on his mobile, I kept watching mine for a notification. I did receive a message stating Rs.10000 credited to the account number that I gave him but the again the biggest blunder I did here was that I just saw the content of the sms but not the sender's name(it was from some number which If I now check on truecaller, shows fraud and many people who have lost money before have commented the number as fraud). One person on the true caller comment section of that number has mentioned like "Tamilian guy. I lost 10k outside some xyz bank and by the time I realized the mistake he drove off his bike away "and has also mentioned his bike number). I know I have been duped in this bargain as I gave him 10k out of 20k which I had withdrawn earlier and later after he left I checked out my balance when I went to withdraw 10k again after this incident happened. Now is there any way to get my money back as it is my first internship pay and I'm feeling very depressed on losing it and moreover if I approach this thing through any legal procedure I would be held responsible as the footages might show that I voluntarily gave him money. Please help me out in this thing. I haven't even told my parents about this.(If I try to call that number its switched off)