SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: It has been one year since my clerkship in the Supreme Court ended and it had led to absolutely nowhere for me. Moreover, it’s a toxic workplace with no learning potential usable in other legal fields.
DATE: 2023-10-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/17chi9j/it_has_been_one_year_since_my_clerkship_in_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

I finished mine more than one year ago and it has in no way benefited my career. In fact, I would go as far as saying that it’s a complete scam and big time waste for graduates. 
I started out as an intern, and once my graduation finished mid term, the judge invited me onboard to be a clerk of his. At that time, I gladly accepted thinking that it will lead to good opportunities for myself in the future or something and didn’t even sit for campus placement. Colleagues in that office talked about becoming policymakers or going for posts in national statutory legal bodies as advisors or even going out of the country to become employees in the UN. 
About a month before the judge’s retirement, my relations soured with the rest of my colleagues over menial issues and over no fault of mine. It started with increased workload which i was completely fine with, but the problem with the other clerks in the office was that they showed up usually drunk or high to the court and the office. They did know what files they were supposed to work on or what they had done already. They would redo my files, say that nobody in the office informed them that they were already done and then I would have to do newer files all over again, increasing my workload twofold. 
My previous work on the same files could not be accepted because they were “seniors” and their work carried more credence than mine or something. One day, I’d had enough and told them politely that I would not be doing new files again and that it would be upto them to start work on newer files because I had already done my bit. 
This is what led to the bulk of the drama. One particularly bitter colleague who also happened to be the daughter of a previous chief minister of a state misbehaved with me and told me to shut my mouth and to watch my tone in front of seniors and to just do what I’d been told. She was the only one in that office who was already known to my family because of my bureaucrat uncle having worked under her father previously and she had cordial relations with him and the rest of my extended family there. 
This was very problematic for me, more so because none of the others stood up for me and they even started shunning me out more. I had a car with a driver who would drive us over from the court to the office and even sometimes drop the clerks off to the their houses or respective metro stations. 
One day, because of an emergency, I had to go somewhere else after court and arrive at the office later. The clerks were pissed off over me not having my car driven for them that day and that’s the day when the entire office became a toxic workplace for me. Everybody over there hated me and gave me the silent treatment whether in office or court. Only the members of the judge’s staff and he himself talked to me. I was often, even barred form entering his office by the other clerks, saying that they will talk to him on my work’s behalf and that I wasn’t needed. One day, I had just coughed in front of them a little and this small cough itself was enough for them to call the staff members over and tell them I could be potentially Covid positive so as to not let me go into his office again. 
The oldest guy there even called me up once on my phone and abused me over no reason. We both had been the only clerks in the office that day and there was a misprint on one of the files. I informed him of the same and he told to go with one of the numbers on the file and not the other one. He called me that same evening telling me to use my brain and to have some sense and to not do that again, even though he was the one who told me to do so. I am an aggressive person myself who regularly trains strength and am one of the better combatants in my MMA dojo. I still held onto my anger and let it go thinking that there’s one more month left of this bs. 
This drama continued with the senior most clerk calling me on one of my off days and telling me to get a life or something. I don’t know what prompted this but I had already been warned by a previous intern who was going away at the time of my joining that clerks in these offices are usually toxic and can try to mob you and pick fights with you over no reason. At times like these, it’s only his warnings and his own stories about them misbehaving with him that kept me going. He had chosen to leave before the tenure ended because he had aspirations for civil services and even though we both had graduated together, he chose not to become a clerk at that place. 
The other work was research which was rare and far in between. One day, when I was the only person in the office, the judge himself called me inside and told me to research one of his past judgements. I did so and found the relevant info he was looking for. Within 10 minutes, that seniormost clerk arrived and seeing what I was working on, told me to email her my work so that she can forward it to the judge himself since I didn’t have his mail myself. I talked to the staff and they said that this would be the appropriate thing to do. 
I sent her my work and lo and behold, she took credit for it, not forwarding my mail but rephrasing it to remove my mention. 
I had had enough at that point and wished to quit that place altogether. But my parents stopped me and so did my friends, saying that this could seriously boost my career and provide advantages that would be otherwise lost over trivial drama. 
I agreed but the constant drama had took a toll on me and I had an IDGAF attitude most of my last month there. Worked on my files and sent them and refused to pick up any of their calls or accept requests for delegated files after 7. If they redid any of my files, I wasn’t aware of them because I did not check the WhatsApp group to begin with. Same files being sent over wasn’t my fault. 
Only the intern of the month at that time talked to me and he agreed that the situation I was in was pretty weird and toxic. 
Anyways, once the judge’s tenure ends, we are invited back to his place to collect our certificates and I am the last one to meet him. He asks me what I seek to do now and I told him that I wished to go for an LLM outside or continue my clerkship term over at another judge’s since I only had about 4 months clocked in since graduation. He more or less dismissed me, saying that no one cares about a retired judge’s word and that he was tired and I should get going now. That was it. 
Since then, I applied to multiple places that I thought would appreciate a clerkship tenure with a Supreme Court judge. Turns out, it was all for naught. I got accepted into my state’s RERA and no other place. 
Dejected, I started going to court and practicing, still unsure about what a clerkship in the Supreme Court enables you to do that otherwise just a bachelors in law doesn’t. Meanwhile, my peers who graduated at the same time as I did, went onto complete their LLMs in the same year that I was toiling away at that toxic workplace. Others joined firms and got placed with hefty packages. Others who started practicing then, now have a year of experience over me in the same field. 
I asked my intern friend about how the clerks were doing now, since they were still in contact with him, and he told me most of them chose to stay at home “looking through their options” except for the seniormost who joined a firm shortly afterwards. 
So again, go for one if it’s available to you if you are only looking for a job that pays but doesn’t amount to anything valuable in the long term. There’s nothing special about it except for improving your résumé. I am still looking for meaning in it and still asking around different offices if they will accept me on the basis of it. Majority of them don’t care and I have even stopped bringing it up out of embarrassment in social talks because people usually assume you would be working somewhere with prestige after such an experience.