SUBREDDIT: r/delhi
TITLE: Confession: I spammed my friends for fun. 
DATE: 2024-07-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1e9yyor/confession_i_spammed_my_friends_for_fun/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have a good amount of self centred female friends ranging from 18 to 40yo, 7 are cousins 13 are college friends and 4 community MF (mutual friends) others are males, probably 12 or so (they come and go). In total, around 30 people were there for a period of 2 yrs.

I have info to their phone numbers, emails, socials and home/office addressess and their work emails . So it was relatively easy and efficient for me to do it. (NOTE: they all gave it to me easy-peasy and I did it for fun only)

I started in February 2022 when I discovered that having a news subscription to western media newsletters is free, no registration, OTP or anything. I rocked on with as many as 287 channels and websites offering a total of 1,988 news mail types.

In a relatively easy summary, I had a long and curious mindset to prank them passively and diligently, made a Excel sheet for all their infos and no of calls and mail they receive in their PRIMARY INBOX, WHATSAPP, SMS, CALLS.

Below are the number of points I registered to prank all 30 of them in a nutshell:

Name of register - number of POS for each individual -

- Gaur builders - 13 projects
- Ajnara - ~4
- all Gzb projects - ~25-28
- western media - 287
- PETA - 1 
- Scientology/Church Organiations - 7
- BYJU's, Unacademy and others - 5
- OLX, Facebook Marketplace and IG marketing pages - 134 to 140 something 

And so much more to go through, I can't recall all of the exact numbers.
Calls each day - anywhere from 3 to 40+.

Then comes the email marketing websites which send newsletters to anyone for everything even if you unsubscribe, months later....
Their primary inbox are always flooded as the email source is primarily from stock markets around the world, shopping ads and many individual drop shipping websites, affiliate marketing, OLX, ebay, Craigslist etc...
Total monthly frequency is around 500+. 287 western media mentioned above are all that.

If they switch emails or phone or any other info to work with, I also add it to my target list. P.S. they send photo sharing mails to me via that or whatsapp / telegram/call me.

In total there are around 3 dozen good friends who suffer the suffering all because they don't value the people around them much. Believe me, I have been their classmate or boyfriend. It's a really nice way to get them through. No conversation/No confrontation with pure bliss to see them everyday having calls in middle of work meetings and client talks...whooo..!

Omce in a while I cross them all through one contact. Example: a friend run IELTS speaking website with free demo registration. I'd fake registered 400+ people whom I met or got their numbers just then, like friends, delivery guys, those wall ads saying "Website Banana Seekhen @9899xxx765x"

Yes, website wala ab English ke liye baat karega aur website update karega 😜🫴

Many Residential Projects in NCR send SMS on weekends to drive the discounts and promotions, also registered to that. Little background: I had been looking for home in NCR since 2017, hence all the contacts and know how's are secured overtime.

Now, over the years, I can say, there are side-effects as well, my Chrome gets bugged, YT ads are influenced, search history goes crazy and I get spammed as well...
Solution: VPN + my temp email + different browser like Brave or Tor or Opera. YT premium.
I have SurfShark VPN, it routes better and I have it for free.

This post can go way beyond expectations, but let's end it for now...