SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: I outsmarted a scammer today and It was satisfying.
DATE: 2023-12-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/18gkilp/i_outsmarted_a_scammer_today_and_it_was_satisfying/

--- POST TEXT ---

Have seen a few posts about scams lately so decided to share what happened today. A guy came to my door asking for donation in the name of some NGO. He told me they have some drive nearby to help children. Typical approach, have seen a lot of them. Usually they come with some pictures or evidence to make you trust them. But this guy came only with a notebook and and told me other people have donated amounts like 1500, 2000. 
I talked to him in a tone that made it clear he's not fooling me. But this guy was persistent. It became a game of words and I hesitated to outright call him a scammer without any proof. 
He asked me how much am I willing to donate. I said I don't have the cash and Im broke. He said online mode is also fine and started writing the amount on his notebook. I said I can do maybe 100 Rs. but infact I have disabled my UPI to save money. he said at least do 500, see how much others have donated. I was laughing inside thinking no one in this locality is rich enough to just shell out 2000 Rs just because someone said they are from an NGO. 
Then I decided to play along, I said please write 100 Rs. He wrote 200 and said you can give atleast 200. I said sure. 

Then I wen Inside, took my lock and key and locked my door right in front of his face. He was visibly confused for 5 seconds. I said I told you I dont have cash or online mode. I am going to withdraw some money. He started following me downstairs. I told him relax brother I will be back in a while with the cash. he asked me how long, I said just wait ill withdraw the cash and buy some groceries maybe 20-30 minutes. He got agitated, he started asking me random questions, like why don't I speak Marathi, Do I put tilak on my forehead? Do I shave my beard on certain days? What is the native village I come from. I just kept replying with minimum words. 

I could see the agitation on his face, knowing he has been outsmarted as I walked off. I had some Chai at local market and came back after 15 minutes, needless to say I did not see him again.