SUBREDDIT: r/Chennai
TITLE: "An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind" - M.K. Gandhi
DATE: 2022-05-14
SCORE: 97
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/upk4y5/an_eye_for_an_eye_makes_the_whole_world_blind_mk/

--- POST TEXT ---

The title in the quote is for the Hindi vs Tamil posts here and in /r/tamilnadu.

You need to understand where Hindi speakers are coming from. And where Tamils come from. Hindi speakers want to impose their language on others because of the wound inflicted by Mughals and British, Mughals pretty much made them uniform. The Mughals truly had an empire which spanned a large area and so Hindi made sense, ruling from around 1500 to end of 1800(some kings were puppets of the British Raj) and then the 2nd time is British came they ruled for 150-200 odd years(the years can be disputed, I'm not historian to give the correct figures). They suddenly wake up in united India and say to themselves we run this country, we make the rules now, and now they have elected BJP(like it or not), until 1990, India was socialistic in nature, and not market economy, today India is the way India is due to Market economy and not some basket case lost potential, and thanks to our then state's CM Karunanidhi, he was able to pursuade some companies to establish themselves in Chennai. Chennai is the way it is due to the initiatives of DMK and our geographical location which gives massive advantage for being a manufacturing hub. Hindi speakers in North India, you need to heal your own trauma and don't try to project your empire fantasies on others. This is still a democratic nation.

So coming back to Tamil people, many still believe Tamils are much different from North Indians, which is undeniably true, Aryan-Invasion theory is still not debunked mainly because there's huge gaps in disproving it, while the main established proof is there's Dravidian language, Brahui even spoken today in Pakistan, Afghanisthan and Iran. A lot of things in India are not freely discussed because frankly Indian government runs on fear, and not for seeking truth, maybe that the Punjab wanting separate nation is the reason they are operating in such a manner? We'll never know. But in a truly open society all truths should be laid open. And this is in fact why we will be low trust society and hence we will not reach 1st world status because we are always looking to backstab someone or get backstabbed by someone. There is no doubt Tamil culture, language is the oldest one in India, no one can dispute it. Hindi speakers should stop being insecure than someone is proud of their own language and will choose it over Hindi.

BJP in the present iteration is based on hate, spreading hatred and creating division. This will never work. Someone was saying "look at Sri Lanka", look at India actually, Modi/BJP is going in the same direction as Rajapaksa family. India is home to the most number of Muslims in Asia. You think you can simply get rid of them? Instead of focusing on growth, finding unity in diversity, you sow seeds of hatred and disunity and wonder why there is no growth. The growth narrative is gone, there is only organic growth which continues due to India's market economy, and not due to BJP. But still they will take the credits. Nirmala Sitaraman made this really funny comment "retail investors can take the shock", no economists utters these words in any country in the world, we only see such geniuses in India. Even out of context this is the most funniest statement ever, India's retail investors(at least the most successful ones) are gonna take their money to other countries if you keep playing games like ponzi scheme running people. Eventually hate will eat you from the inside.

Edit: Okay there is some brigading going(someone shared it in a subreddit filled with sanghis) on saying I'm pro-DMK. If DMK has Tamil Nadu's ideas in mind, and BJP doesn't obviously DMK is favoured, you say as if supporting DMK is wrong and BJP is right.