Respected sir/ma'am I am a 10th pass from batch 2022-23, currently in grade 11th from science stream. i want to pursue a career in the field of medicine and hence I'm preparing for the neet examination ( 2024 ) . i have been studying from the free version of byjus ever since lockdown started so when i had to choose an institute for my neet preparation, i received a call from the byjus councellors after which they scheduled a home counseling session. on the day of counselling i was told that i will be allowed to attend few demo live classes, and the video lectures on the tablet will be available in both Hindi and English; i was also provided a trial period of 15 days to cancel the product if I'm unsatisfied. on contacting the assigned mentors i got to know that there's no live class to attend until 6th of June. i passed the information to the counsellor who sold me the product and he said, i quote " it's alright! the company just gives a rough estimate of 15 days to the customers but it entirely depends on us when we cancel the product. we are byjus for you. let the classes start and you can tell me if you're not satisfied with the product, I'll cancel the product and you'll recieve your refund" . quote end. i was also told that the videos on the tablet are not available on the free version. however, as i started watching the videos i wasn't able to switch the language to hindi . it's very hard for me to understand the lectures when it's in complete english. i checked on the free app and all the videos i watched on the byjus provided premium tablet were available on the free app even after 30 days o[censored]sage of that free app. i was told my metors would call me and that their counsellor lied about maximum things including the trial period and language switching option. i didn't recieve a call back from the mentors either. the counsellor has blocked me from his number too. i am a medical aspirant and had put my faith into this institute only to get scammed by them. i have call recordings and chat screenshots of my conversations with the byjus councellor where he made all those fake promises. i can easily prove that i was given false information about the product. i belong to a middle class family. i paid for it. i was given false information, false promises. i am the one who got scammed, and I'm the one struggling right now while the person who scammed me is probably sitting in the comfort of their home, having forgot about it all . please tell me what can be done and how could I contact the related authority to get my refund. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)