SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Need urgent advice on financial fraud
DATE: 2025-05-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1kfih7x/need_urgent_advice_on_financial_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I recently visited Kolkata for a weekend getaway where I was staying at a hotel and decided to avail an escort service. I wasn’t thinking straight and my urges got the best out of me. So I contacted a service after searching through google via WhatsApp and they asked me to make certain payments which I did. I also foolishly sent them a photo of my ID. They kept asking me for repeated payments and after a point I had realised that this was a scam. When I resisted to do so, they threatened to raise an enquiry against me claiming that they have my bank details and my ID and that I would fall in trouble for trying to get engaged in a grey area. Under pressure I transferred them large amounts of money through credit card payments until I had to stop as they kept asking for more. I was really very scared but I couldn’t keep sending all my money away as I’m a middle class man who has just started his career.

I proceeded to block all their contact numbers and any new numbers they were trying to call me from. They were very smart to have these conversations over WhatsApp voice calls since they’re end to end encrypted. Scared, I immediately called my bank to block my credit card and issue a new one. I called 1930 as well for advice but they said that please contact your own jurisdiction which was Delhi. 

As of now, I have raised a dispute against the fraud merchant in my bank and I’ve submitted the dispute form and waiting for their investigation team to take action. The bank suggested me to file a report on the cyber crime portal but I told them that I don’t want to proceed with an official investigation as of now.

I researched as much as I could and the conclusion that I arrived to was that the service I paid for probably wasn’t an escort service to begin with. Moreover, since I didn’t actually indulge in any illegal act, I’ll be viewed as the victim of fraud instead of being the target. However it goes, I’m still afraid to report this to the authorities as I don’t want my parents or anyone else including my friends, relatives or employer to get an idea about this. I want to keep this as discreet as possible and the reason I reported to the bank was due to the huge amount of money that I might need to pay as my credit card bill at the end of this month. So I raised a dispute and if they don’t agree for a refund as per their process, I’ll request them to convert that money into EMI.

Whatever information I’ve received is from online sources and hence I’m reaching out here to real Lawyers out there who might have an idea how to help me out. Please advise what I should do as I’m in urgent need of help. Considering all the above factors including keeping this matter discreet, should I report this on the cyber crime portal?