SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: My Kid fell for remote access Apple "Tech Support" scam on her Android and Apple phones, plus Walmart gift card scam. 
DATE: 2024-09-19
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1fk1qax/my_kid_fell_for_remote_access_apple_tech_support/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday my special needs daughter fell for a scam and I'm not sure if this is the right place to post but I need advice so please let me know. She recently bought a refurbished iPhone but was unable to migrate her data from her Android phone to the new iPhone. Instead of going to Best buy where she bought it she went on Google and called an "Apple tech support" number. A guy with an Indian accent said in order to establish her Apple ID he needed to verify her identity.

She gave him her name, phone number, and email. 

He sent her an email link that she clicked and installed a remote access app on her Android phone. He talked her into going onto her Amazon account and buying $150 gift card for PlayStation. He made a fake Amazon pop-up that asked her to re-enter her debit card number which she did. But the sale was never completed and Amazon subsequently locked her account. I was suspicious when she needed her debit card so I intervened but he assured me that there would be no exchange of money which of course was a lie.

So he convinced her that it was a problem with our Wi-Fi and that she needed to go to Walmart and use their Wi-Fi. I told her not to go I begged her several times while she was there to come home but she ignored my calls claiming she was okay.

He instructed her at Walmart to buy $150 Apple gift card and scratch off the code and give it to him which she did. In order to get a "refund" she was supposed to meet his tech support guy outside. Then he said the $150 card didn't work and she needed to send him another.

Thankfully at this point she called me in a panic and I told her to stop all interactions, block his number, leave the store immediately and come home.

She is at work at the moment so I am unable to find out if she was able to transfer any of the data onto her new phone but I plan on doing a factory reset on both phones after getting some advice here.

She called the bank and put a lock on her debit card. I contacted our bank and put a lock on our accounts. I still working on changing Bank passwords as we have several. We also called Amazon last night who confirmed her account is locked and that the PlayStation card did not go through thankful. I'm leaving her account locked for now.

She claims she deleted the remote access app but of course they probably left malware behind. I also changed our Wi-Fi SSID and password today. But if they're already in our system, may they have seen the new passwords in my Google passwords?

I posted on her Facebook that she was hacked to alert friends that they may be getting weird messages from her and do not send any money. I instructed her to post the same message on her other social medias. 

As I said she's special needs so extremely trusting. She feels terrible and of course I'm supporting her any way I can.

Should I do a factory reset on her new iPhone and her old Android? Could they get access to our Wi-Fi network? This sucks. I'm exhausted. Any advice would be really appreciated. 🙏