SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Exposed a Scammer, and Saved nearly 10 people.
DATE: 2023-09-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/16shm2j/exposed_a_scammer_and_saved_nearly_10_people/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR at the bottom.

Let me give a lil bit of background, I work in IT near Brookfield. It was the usual Monday for me. Was heading to the office by walk (the office is near my residence). I saw this woman, who appeared to be in her 30s, waving her hand and asking for help. Instantly my memory kicked in. She was the same woman who tried to scam me 2 months before.

Let me tell you about my FIRST interaction(2 months prior) with her.

I was coming back from the office. I saw this woman from far away holding an elbow crutch, waving at people for help. A few people approached her, quickly handed her some money, and moved on. When I was near her, she waved at me with this innocent, exhausted face, even a stone-hearted person should melt and feel the pain she might be going through.

She quickly held my hand and asked if I knew Telugu, I knew a few words and their meaning due to my friend circle. I said NO to her, then she started convo in English. Saying she is from VIZAG she needs to go back and needs money for the train. And also money for the transport to KSR Bangalore.

Now I knew that something was fishy. So to test her patience. I said I didn't have any cash and offered to book a cab to KSR Bangalore. Things weren't going according to her plan, so she started to switch to Telugu. Saying I didn't understand her, and suddenly out of nowhere she raised her voice.

She was cussing me like she was entitled to do so. I backed off a little bit and gave a big smile to her and moved on, then I saw a TT Driver waving at me. When I was near him, he told me that. She was a scammer and a guy on the bike dropped her in the morning. These people use Guilt-tripping tactics and extort money from innocent people.

Now, Let me tell you about my SECOND interaction.

I usually go to the office around 9 a.m. and head back within an hour or so. When I was heading to the office, I saw her, knew who she was, and all those first interactions came back to me. Decided not to interact with her. 

When I was in the office, I was thinking about another incident that happened with an innocent guy on a bus. Basically, I was heading to BTM 2nd stage using local transport, when a guy in front of us lost his mobile. Apparently, someone stole his phone right in front of everyone, and we were not able to do anything. This thing really pissed me off.

I decided that if I found her on my way back, then I would confront her and scare her by calling the police. On my way back, I saw her in the same spot. I started recording her when I was near her, I told the person (potential victim) that she was dealing with a scammer, and to please move away from her.

She was really pissed and angry. I moved a little further and stood on the sidewalk. Then she tried to scam another group of 5 people. Which I intercepted it and told these guys to move on as it was a scam. Again, I moved a little further and stood on the sidewalk, she tried to scam another group of 6 people. I intercepted it and told these guys to move on as it was a scam. By this time, she knew it wasn't working out for her. She cussed me one last time and I shouted at her saying I had called Hoysala police, and they might come any time now.

She stopped a biker and asked for help and went with him.

TL;DR

2 months ago a woman tried to scam me, the same woman, in the same location strikes again. This time I exposed her and saved a bunch of innocent people.

https://preview.redd.it/p8xmaf6cvjqb1.jpg?width=1080&amp;format=pjpg&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=eb9dcf4d0392d3fda4a5d87ed9c883c678e2b450

&amp;#x200B;

https://reddit.com/link/16shm2j/video/ucxch33ivjqb1/player

&amp;#x200B;