SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank account frozen by cyber crime andhrapradesh
DATE: 2025-02-05
SCORE: 50
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1ii75ak/bank_account_frozen_by_cyber_crime_andhrapradesh/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone, 

Last Friday my father's bank account fot freeze and thought it would just be a kyc issue with bank (SBI) so we went to sbi bank on Monday and upon waiting for 1 hour and submiting the kyc details they said that my father's account cannot be unfreeze as they have orders from cyber crime department, vishakhapatamam, Andhrapradesh (wtf?)

They said that some one must have transferred some amount to my dad's account and they showed use the copy of the orders there are some many other account numbers along with ours..

My father is an government employee and he takes care of every single penny credited or debited to his account and writes it into his diary at the end of the day so if any suspicious amount has credited he would have knew right?

And the bank employee gave me the mobile number and email of the cyber crime department from which they got the orders from, upon calling the number, no one recieved at First and after 10 calls finally someone recieved I told them that my account got frozen and tha bank gave me this number they asked me send my bank account number to his WhatsApp.... I did I called him 10 times again to know the reason but no one picked even Messaged on WhatsApp but no success and today upon talking with him he said that "suno babu your account has freezed right? Just refund the amount to the victim and I will unfreeze it" my father told him that there are no suspicious activities as I take care of each and every transaction by myself.... And he asked me again o refund to the victim... And at the end he even told me that if I wanna talk like that just come visit them at vishakhapatnam andhrapradesh bruhh I live in Gujarat.....

Bruhhh my father haven't even got single penny as a suspicious transaction???

Additionally i have mailed the vishakhapatamam cyber crime department just now

And upon visiting bank to today to double check the same the bank said that we can't provide you the statement as we have orders... And neither can I open the yono sbi app and check the statement 

What should we do?
What would be the next procedure to unfreeze my father's account?