SUBREDDIT: r/pune
TITLE: SB road unsafe??? (LONG)
DATE: 2023-02-07
SCORE: 91
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/10vyoyo/sb_road_unsafe_long/

--- POST TEXT ---

so this happened last sunday evening around 9pm. i(F20) was just getting back home from viman nagar which is very far for me. i came halfway with two friends and they dropped me at the beginning of SB road right where WS Bakers is. i had got down there a few times before also so that i could take a rickshaw home. so i booked a rickshaw but this guy kept me waiting for 20 minutes because he was getting very confused despite repeatedly telling him EXACTLY where i was.
during that time i noticed this delivery guy standing next to me and staring at me. i figured it must be because i was wearing shorts because i just came after playing a match. a few more glances i noticed that he was still staring at me and smiling at me very creepily too. so i tried contacting my rickshawwala again but he circled my area twice still very clueless and this creepy guy realised i was very frantic and wanted to get home fast so every time i looked the other way he would inch a little closer to me and smile everytime i glanced at him. at this point i got very scared so i tried calling my parents but i knew they wouldn’t pick up because they were busy. i was looking around for places i could go inside to be in a safer environment like inside WS Bakers but the guy was blocking the entrance and i couldn’t go very far from where i was because the location would change. 
i was very visibly panicking and he was enjoying this so i thought about taking out my pepper spray but i couldn’t afford to keep that guy out of my sight cause he was 2 steps away from me.
a few minutes later a guy on a bike stopped in front of me to check his google maps. i was getting more and more uncomfortable and the guy on the bike looked pretty decent(probably like 28-29 though) so i approached him and asked him to pretend like we knew each other because this creepy guy was staring at me. he understood my predicament and waited with me while simultaneously keeping a lookout. meanwhile the creepy guy, knowing exactly what i was doing and knowing that the situation is fake, sat right behind me waiting for that guy on the bike to leave. the rickshawwala was still being a menace and not understanding my location. i felt bad for making that guy on the bike wait and i told him this but he said that he didn’t mind being a little late to his party. after 10 or 15 minutes when my rickshaw still hadn’t come, and i looked like i was about to cry, he told me to cancel the ride and that he will drop me. i think even he had realised the gravity of the situation because the creepy guy wouldn’t budge from his position and wouldn’t stop looking right at me. 
usually i would ask a person who is offering to ride me home twice but that day i didn’t hesitate. Since he wasn’t a localite, i gave him directions and he got me home speedily. i also noticed how the creepy guy got up from where he was sitting right after i left on that guy’s bike. 
i tried my best to thank that guy for everything that he done that evening to make sure i was safe. he was very nice about it and said that he didn’t mind. i don’t know what would’ve happened to me if it wasn’t for that stranger. the chances of him reading this are very slim but but i hope he knows how grateful i am. we need more men like this.
what really baffled me was the fact that such a busy road which people use so often for daily commute looked so dark and deserted that i felt unsafe. even though it was 9pm there weren’t many people around and very few cars were coming from the opposite direction. it wasn’t even the fact that i was dressed inappropriately - i was wearing a full sleeved t shirt and sports shorts. its really sad and traumatising that this happened in a city like Pune especially with the G20 shit coming up. stay safe you guys.