SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Bhagwant Mann warns of reciprocal entry tax on HP-registered vehicles
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/india/bhagwant-mann-warns-of-reciprocal-entry-tax-on-hp-registered-vehicles/2894387/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chandigarh, Apr 1 (PTI) Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday slammed the Himachal Pradesh Congress government over the entry tax on vehicles from outside the state and warned of reciprocal tax.
His remarks came in the wake of Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu’s Tuesday announcement of a reduction in the hike in entry tax for the small passenger vehicles to Rs 100 from Rs 130, following opposition to the decision.
On Wednesday, protests erupted at the Punjab-Himachal border, with locals, taxi operators, and farmers’ bodies demanding the withdrawal of the entry tax.
Show Full Article
The protesters demanded a complete rollback of the entry tax, arguing that a state cannot tax other states.
Speaking to reporters, Mann said his government shut toll plazas at several places in Punjab, and the move stands to benefit HP-registered vehicles as well.
“We are saving their money, but they are imposing tax on our (Punjab) vehicles. We will watch for some time. Otherwise, we also know how to impose tax,” the chief minister said.
Mann also took a swipe at the Punjab Congress leaders for their silence on the matter.
Meanwhile, the Himachal government announced concessional passes to all residents living within five kilometres of any toll barrier.
On February 16, a notification was issued announcing an increase in tax on small passenger vehicles from Rs 70 to Rs 170. After a backlash, the tax was fixed at Rs 130.
At a protest at the Dherowal entry barrier near the Punjab-Himachal border, AAP MLA from Rupnagar, Dinesh Chadha, called the entry tax “illegal.” Chadha questioned the interstate tax, saying that the Constitution allows freedom of movement across the country.
Last month, during the Budget Session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Finance Minister Harpal Singh Cheema said that the state would consider the possibility of imposing a counter tax on vehicles registered in Himachal Pradesh.
Cheema slammed the Congress-led Himachal Pradesh government for making an “exorbitant” increase in the entry tax on vehicles from other states and asserted that the Sukhu government did so as it was on the verge of being “bankrupt”. PTI CHS VN VN
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.