SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Being Harassed by Ex-Boyfriend - What are my Legal Options in India?
DATE: 2024-03-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1bhjx68/being_harassed_by_exboyfriend_what_are_my_legal/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm reaching out for some legal advice regarding a difficult situation I'm facing with an ex-boyfriend. We have went our separate ways, but unfortunately, he's not taking the breakup well. 
 
Here's what's been happening: 
 
Constant Messages &amp; Harassment: He's bombarding me with messages, constantly calling, and generally harassing me online and offline. Since he is blocked on calls and WhatsApp I am only getting his calls on my call log. The only form of communication between us has been iMessages.  
Stalking: He's been following me and showing up uninvited at my house, even standing outside my building for hours at a time since past two days. He has threatened to come to my office and my room again today.  
Doxxing &amp; Online Lies: I am not sure how but he has found out about my reddit account and, he (along with some of his friends) harassed me on Reddit, doxxing me with personal information and spreading lies about me. He has messaged several Redditors saying things like I give sexual favour/nudes to men in exchange of money! 
Threats &amp; Intimidation: He's threatened to tell my parents and has even claimed he's contacted my employer by mail. He has been sending linkedin requests to my collogues and friends. 

I made the mistake of agreeing to talk to him after the breakup, but it didn't resolve anything. He wanted to 'make things better' and get back into the relationship to which I said that he has a lot of convincing to do for me to even consider. Now, the situation feels increasingly unsafe and out of control. 
 
My question is: What are my legal options in India to stop this harassment? 
 
I'm worried about my safety and reputation. Any advice from lawyers or anyone who has dealt with a similar situation would be greatly appreciated.