SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Fake allegations by maid
DATE: 2023-06-13
SCORE: 128
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/148bnkm/fake_allegations_by_maid/

--- POST TEXT ---

I Originally posted on r/IndianLaw. 

This could be long but please read it.

Guys I need help on next step. So Today my maid(f40+) called my brother saying that my father(71, teacher for over 50years) grabbed her hand when she was moping upstairs. He immediately asked for Proof to which she said she don't have my but she'll provide next time. And this app happened on 9th June.

But in reality she never moped upstairs however she went up to take a shit. When my father was busy laying clothes. She came out of the toilet and he asked her why she said shes going to mop when she is doing potty.

A little bit of the background: we have know her and her mother for over 26 years. She has. son who's been to jail for a few month last year. and. daughter. my father has always treated her like a daughter. When he got severe COVID and his legs stopped working her mother used to help in excercising his legs. He is dependent on insulin for life. He other lower abdomen problems as well. I mean he's 70. However he still teaches students which includes girls as well.

Anyways,Now what we've decided is not to do
anything as there literally no truth to her story. And we'll let her go in 2 months since she comes late at work all the time. But I want to know if this is the right thing to do. What if she put on some fake injuries or something. But also she's been working since 9. And no CCTV footage is not available for Upstairs.Just the Gate maybe.

Edit/Update: so as decided not to react we didnt when this evening after all the allegations it was just my mother and i alone at home when she came late again and drank her evening tea which we offer daily. She didn't say a word but talked about why she was late and how she found out that her bank branch shifted. shes only contacted my brother who she knows work. she doesn't know i work too. Its beyond my mental capacity why she confided in him of all the people. He doesn't even talk to her like at all.

but we are firing her this month and we have multiple reason that have been lingering for months now. she is extra late nowadays probably some new work. her work takes not more than 15 minutes to complete and in the evening it's even less. Besides her taking time to shit. 

and as to her evidence she said she'll call my brother to show her audio. but there will be no next time. We stopped allowing her to use the restroom upstairs coz it's reserved for the tenant. but that alleged day she insisted on going upstairs. a separate toilet is available for the outsiders downstairs too. but she didn't use it. i don't know why. that day our tenant wasn't there.

anyways as for the cameras everyone is saying. i don't think it'll be of help. because to install a camera in a room just doesn't seem right. and we are never allowing her upstairs ever again. even if she goes upstair no way my father is going too for sure.

Update 2: so she did her work and all never talked to me or anyone except once specified time to my brother. Yesterday her son got arrested and his friends were arrested a day before. Today she came on time because my mother has been telling her to do so. She even asked me to dial up her lawyers she illiterate and she's also a widow with 2 kids which includes a minor girl. All this makes this story sad and it is. Also she is completely blind in one eye. 

However, Today after she went away i installed true caller in my brother's phone. i know this sounds lame. Anyways he had earlier blocked her number on the 13th when she called first. Yesterday 14th june around 3 pm her son went to jail. Day before yesterday i.e. 13th her son's jail bird friends were taken in custody. Now having installed true caller i found out she has missed called him 3 times around 4-4:30pm, 1 call came from a lawyer too. i don't know if that was her lawyer or not. Today in the morning when she came to work she didn't ask my brother about why he didn't pick up. I made him and my father sit with me. If she really wanted justice she could've called him out right then. Further, she asked me to call up her lawyer. So according to me she knew about her son getting caught so she thought of blaming an old man who can't even walk properly, been on ducasteride for years his testosterone levels are low af, alive because of insulin, partially blind in one eye all this just so she could extract money from us. 
And no she never talked to my mother and i or even our extended family where she works. She specifically told my brother not to tell my mother. Because it was all a lie. it was never about my father or the accusations she made on him. it was probably just the money. Damn.

PS: this is my last post from this account