SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Fraud : Electronics Hub
DATE: 2024-05-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1chdjl4/fraud_electronics_hub/

--- POST TEXT ---

I shifted to BLR last month. I got a semi furnished flat and mostly purchased everything except for washing machine. Initially I wanted to purchase washing machine as well but since I had already spent so much on setting the flat, and also because I have heard some good reviews about used machine in BLR, I decided to get a used machine. 

I got in touch with this person Faizan from electronics hub. I talked to him and he sent me pictures of this new Bosch washing machine he has procured recently and quoted me 15k. I was already exhausted from all the setup process and shopping so I couldn't negotiate and verify a lot. 

We finalised everything in 13.5k including dilvery and installation everything. These were the terms

1) dilvery and installation including tap piece included in price
2) free 6 months door step maintenance service in case of any issue
3) buyback gurantee within 1 year

They installed the machine next day. Even after stating clearly that installation (along with everything needed to get this machine running)is included they argued for installation charges (indirectly stating that they installed a tap piece etc ). I was not home and my wife paid for it and got the invoice from them

Just 2 days back I was washing my clothes and the machine stopped showing some error on the screen. The door won't open since it's locked with all my clother inside. I have been calling them and they won't pickup. Yesterday, they picked up once on on of the "customer care" number and said they will send technician in 2 hours. After 4 hours (after calling then more than thrice) he said his got a flat tyre and there is repair shop. He stopped picking calls after that.

Faizan won't pick up. What steps I can take so that these fraud don't Operate this easily and cheat people. 

How and where should I report them ?