SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Prostitutes on 100ft road Indiranagar duped 45k off me
DATE: 2025-04-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1jtgyw5/prostitutes_on_100ft_road_indiranagar_duped_45k/

--- POST TEXT ---

Using burner account for obvious reason. 

Few days ago I approached one of the girls on 100ft road Indiranagar, at around 1AM who were offering 'service'. We agreed on 2k Rupees for one shot

We sat in the auto and another friend of hers joined. We then stopped at the end of 100ft road, opposite to Jook Taproom there is a small house kind of thing and went inside. It was a small af room with only one bed and nothing else. Soon after the deed was done, two other girls came inside the room and started demanding money. I told I only had 13k on me and I was ready to pay them in order to get out of this. One of the girls then forced me to show my bank account. I denied at first, but then they started harassing me, pulling my hair and one of the girls put her hands on my throat as if to choke me, I backed up. I begged and I begged that I can do 20k rupees as I had rent due and supporting my family I send some amount. They were not budging. I don't know what she did with my phone and asked me to put my UPI passcode and poof 45k Rupees from my account transferred to some person (male). I can share the name of the person and the screenshot of the transaction in DMs. There is no record in Gpay or phonePe, but I can see the transaction in my bank account statement. 

I was crying as hell and they showed no mercy. They booked an auto for me and dropped me to Ejipura, the whole time I was crying as hell as to what I had done. Approaching the police seemed futile as I think they'll only remand me instead of helping me. 

I am not asking you guys to pity me. I am doing that to myself. 

If some of you guys were thinking of approaching the girls, please don't. It is a huge scam, please dont fall for it. 

I ask of you, is there any way I can get some of my money back? What should I do now?