SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Migrant Worker Scam
DATE: 2024-02-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1auphuf/migrant_worker_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I got scammed yesterday on the same pretext below RR metro.

Here is the story,
Location :- At around 8:45, below RR nagar metro station.

A person stopped me and asked if he told I knew Hindi.
I'm a kannadiga but I'm well versed in Hindi.

He told he needed help. He explained that his family (2 50 year old women, a 50 year old man, 1 4-5 year old kid)
got scammed by their contractor and weren't paid their 1st month wages.
He told they were from nagpur.
He consistently told I am not begging, please help.
He told he was from nagpur and they are trying to get back and They have no money.

I had 90rs hard cash and I gave them 80 as I needed 15rs for getting back home via bus(I had to walk a km cuz I had 10 only).
This I thought would help them get food.
I also paid 200 thinking it would help them get to KSR station.

They later said they are 4 and they kept telling me, we are not begging, please help us. To this, I assumed that a scammer would have been happy with whatever amount he would have scammed, these people would actually require more to get back home.
He said that tickets were 200 per person and they were 4.
I thought, this guy is only asking Hindi speakers for help, so it would be hard for him to arrange.

I UPI'ed him 600 more (total 800 + 80 cash sent), thank god I had only 700 in bank balance; for sure I would have sent at most 1000.
They all were relieved and I thought to myself, I did a good deed. He told god will help you and all that jack.

I told I understand their plight, told them to not move over their entire family to a new city in the 1st month itself. They told they will never come here again. I told please come, we respect you and all that BS. He said he would return the money once he reached Nagpur, I was fine with it. He told please take a picture of my aadhar, I told nah its fine.

The next day afternoon I call him on his cell, he says he is in Hyderabad. There was a lot of disturbance on their side and I felt convinced they were on the train ride back home.

I Start reading Reddit posts and I check his whatsapp and True called profiles; he looks well to do.

I called them at 7:45 p.m. to check on them, he says he is in Yashwanthpur station and they didn't get a ticket and TC kicked them out. I told him, didn't you buy the ticket and travel? He tells the same old shit again, please help me, god will help you send 1200 more.

I tell him, nah this is a scam. He cuts call.
Doesn't answer.

Attaching his number, 9922582219