When all the doors are closed to the world for the man remains the only means of God But after the events of theft idol temples constantly needs protection now God is felt. "None of it, which is inscribed Folks" made the phrase is meaningless to the idol thief gangs. In all those Murti chor gangs, one name is very famous that is Bali Ram Sharma who is the grandfather of Sahil Sharma. Now Sahil Sharma and Bali Ram Sharma is famous Handicraft Dealer kangra art dealer & Antique dealer but a high profile Murti Chor. Even Bali Ram Sharma made a mandir name is "baba baroh mandir" sutiated at Kangra district, India. But main purpose is use that mandir and its Sharma Farm Chattarpur to hide stolen Antique, Handicraft, murti and kangra art in Sharma Farm Chattarpur. History About Bali Ram Sharma and its grandson Sahil Sharma Bali Ram Sharma had even send his grandson to study in London at regent College for two years, for the sole purpose of inducing foreign nationals, antique dealers to come to India and show them their collection of stolen antique/smuggled goods and also to show the world that he has studied abroad but the real fact is that behind all this he went there to manage his business in London. There Sahilsharma used to work with Sebastian and managed his business. There was one more lady by the name of Maria who closely work for them in their business.Sabastian who visits India frequently and looks after their store in London. If investigated and searched many stolen Idols/statues smuggled from India will be found selling from the said store. That Bali Ram Sharma is also a big time Hawala dealer and runs a hawala racket from his jorbagh office at New Delhi and Chattarpur farm house. There is also an article published in ‘The New Yorker’ “The Idol Thief” where Bali Ram Sharma‘s name is also there. It is specifically mentioned therein that Sharma was arrested on several occasions, but never jailed for long and Sharma became so influential that dealers throughout the country worked under the blessings of Sharma. The said article as also enclosed herewith for your reference. The Book named by “Plunder of Art” by Hamender Bisham Pal. Therein also, Bali Ram Sharma has been named as a dealer in antiques and has charged in many cases involving stolen antiques. Most importantly the 189 antique idols, paintings and articles which were seized by crime branch of Delhi on a raid conducted by the crime branch at the Sharma Farm, Chattarpur. Thereafter the crime branch handed the goods to Mehruali Police station. It is to be noted that the 189 articles were later handed over to national museum by the police. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)