SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: New UPI QR swap Scam in Church Street!! 
DATE: 2024-04-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1bveppb/new_upi_qr_swap_scam_in_church_street/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday I was out with my friends to buy some books from blossom book house. After purchasing we came out and found a lime soda cart just opposite to the book house.

The guy was not with the cart and we were looking for him and immediately he came from a nearby shadow place where he was sitting. (This is important). I thought he was sitting there due to the weather. The cart was in open to sun and no shades.

We took 3 lime soda and he gave it to us and went back to sit on the same spot. We were chatting and finished it. I scanned the UPI QR placed on the cart, paid ₹90 and showed my phone UPI confirmation to him like waving my phone from the cart. He is still sitting there away from the cart. (There is no confirmation sound from the Paytm voice machine, we didn’t know he even had a machine bcoz it is not kept open to public). Then we started to walk away from the cart.

Immediately in 10-15 secs he called us “bhai, payment” so I said my friends to wait &amp; went back to him. He said no payment received. I told him I scanned this QR code placed on the cart and paid. He asked me to show the confirmation and I showed him. It says “Paid ₹90 to Abhubhakkar Siddiq Abdulla” and he started saying no this is not my name. Which QR you scanned, this is not mine. Now he again asked me to scan the same QR code and now it showed “Abdul Basit”.

I checked the upi id’s both are different. How can a same QR code can show 2 different upi ids in matter of seconds. I got suspicious and understood some scam is happening. I searched nearby everywhere to see whether he hide the other QR code but none found. He is now asking to pay ₹90 and he has not received the previous one. I was arguing to check with his account balance and all. He called someone and later said no I have not received it I confirmed with my brother. 

I was in hurry so I paid another ₹90 to the same placed QR code but this time the name is “Abdul Basit” and the confirmation voice also received from his machine. I raised UPI transaction dispute on the app and left.

He should have swapped the QR code definitely after we left immediately. He was sitting away from the cart is to pull this scam.

Later reaching home I thought I should have checked for the CCTV cam of nearby shops..

Lesson learnt: Confirm the UPI name or stay there till the transaction is success and leave the place.