SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Unpaid Salary / Labour Commission or Legal Notice
DATE: 2024-11-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1gpmp66/unpaid_salary_labour_commission_or_legal_notice/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was hired by a pvt design company and production house in Delhi for a contractual commitment of 4 months. I was clear to them of my inability to continued post the mentioned duration due to prior commitments. I had agreed to work out of their Delhi office but post 2 days of work, I was forced to shift to their production workshop in rural Gurgaon.

I recieved the salary for 2 months (which they paid on or post 15th every month). 2 months of my salary has been pending. The delay in the third month was due to a financial complication and they said they'd do both 3rd and 4th month payments together post handover. (I complied because the owner is from the same college as I and the community is somewhat small, essentially trust).

They made me complete handover in due time and I obliged as agreed. Post the handover, after waiting for 1 month, I started writing to them. In response, they called me and said they were not happy with the work and the production wasn't completed (I was only responsible for the design bit, they did not let anything get produced due to urgent delivery of other orders and no sampling time/team/resources) and that I'd have to come back and complete it and only then could they process the payments. There were many other issues with the place but no point listing them here.

Post 15 days of discussion, the entire office stopped taking calls (senior designers, owners, a fake HR representative, fake hiring manager). I only figured a lot of this crap once I had made a residential shift and I thought could just finish with my contract and move on.

I sent them emails, and sent a final mail with legal consequences.

I need help with Labour Law advocate names/contacts in Gurgaon (who works with contracts). 
Should I go the legal notice route/labour commission office route?

Anybody who's done this before, any help is appreciated.