SUBREDDIT: r/bangalore
TITLE: Update: Fooled and professionally conned out of 17000 Rs near Yeswanthpur
DATE: 2024-09-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/1fbv1br/update_fooled_and_professionally_conned_out_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

**An update on my car situation from my post from yesterday:** I finally got it checked out at a authorized service center this morning, and it turns out I was taken for a big fool and got completely scammed out of my car parts and money. It’s hard to believe I was duped so easily -I’m upset with myself for not spotting the scam and for being taken advantage of in such a sophisticated way.

The service center ran some diagnostics and found out that the electrical system was perfectly fine and there were no reasons for the alternator to be replaced especially since mine was a new one. The sparks I saw might have been due to a minor issue or a loose connection—nothing that needed an urgent repair or a replacement. They had mentioned I should have just tried refitting the spark plug back mentioning the uncle must have pulled the spark plug out while I was busy at the drivers seat opening the bonnet. 
The electrical system looked dead because the mechanic must have removed one of the fuses at some point when that fat scammer uncle had me looking away towards his direction. I was getting anxious here, so he took advantage and cleverly held my face between his hands making sure I wouldn't turn my head back suddenly to see whats going on - me thinking it was a just a fatherly gesture let it be which on hindsight, is embarrassing and probably incredibly dumb of me -I know now... 
Shortly after, a few more fuses were neatly removed one by one like this and the entire system was killed which helped convince me the alternator needs to be replaced. 
I paid Rs. 8,999 in cash—Rs. 7,999 for the alternator and Rs. 1,000 for labor cost —without realizing I was being scammed. Initially, I only thought they had replaced the alternator, but the shocker is that my brand new battery (worth 9350 rs) had also been swapped with an old, worn-out one (close to scrap at this point) while I was captivated and distracted talking to the other biker uncle answering his questions. They never even told me there was any issue with my battery and got that cleverly replaced at the end really quick...I am so in shock that I never noticed this happening while they were doing it right under my nose and got away with all the parts. The service center later revealed that all the parts were super old, used, or refurbished and that I had been overcharged by a huge amount. They had simply been rewrapped to look new to dupe me.

I have been very professionally duped and collectively conned out of atleast 17000 rs that night. I’m just frustrated and embarrassed at this point for being a made a fool. Just a heads-up to everyone: make sure to get your car checked by trusted professionals only and be wary of anyone who seems too eager to "help" you out. Not having enough knowledge of the various car engine parts cost me dearly, making me fall for this scam...