SUBREDDIT: r/LegalAdviceIndia
TITLE: Bank account frozen by Cyber crime. I don't live in India. What are my options?
DATE: 2024-06-17
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/LegalAdviceIndia/comments/1dht4v4/bank_account_frozen_by_cyber_crime_i_dont_live_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

So this happened a year ago, in April 2023. I'm from Mumbai and I've been working in the UAE for ten years. Last year, I had the opportunity to invest in a property in Mumbai.

I needed to remit the money, and I had always done so through my NRI account. My friend told me he knew someone in the UAE who offered a better exchange rate than the market rate. All I had to do was pay him cash in Dubai, and he would transfer the money into my account in the UAE. Of course, I was skeptical since I had never tried this before, but my friend had been dealing with this person for a long time, and he showed me chat logs as well as the person's bank statements. After considering it, I decided to give it a try because I was getting approximately 3-4 lakhs more, which I thought would be very helpful for paying stamp duty and other charges.

In March 2023, I met the person with my friend and gave him cash. He requested at least 4-5 Indian bank accounts because he couldn't transfer such a large amount into just one account. So, I provided my account details and my parents'. I received the money the next day, and we started the process to purchase the property.

In April, when I tried to transfer the booking amount from my account, it failed. I found out that the account was frozen by Uttar Pradesh Cybercrime because the account that transferred me the money was flagged for a phishing scam. I panicked and asked my parents to check their accounts. Their accounts were still operational, so I asked them to issue cheques for the property dealer and deposit them immediately, which cleared successfully. However, their accounts were also frozen later in May and June.

I called the person to inform him, and he told me this was the first time something like this had happened. He promised to either get my account unfrozen or give me my money back (only the one which was transferred into my account, as the rest had already been withdrawn). After trying a lot, he could not resolve the issue, and finally, he gave me my money back in Dubai.

Now the problem is that when I spoke to the cybercrime department at the time, they told me an investigation was ongoing. It's been more than a year now, and my account is still frozen. There are additional funds in the account apart from the one that guy transferred, and I'm completely lost about how to unfreeze it since I don't live in India and I only visit once or twice a year for a few days.