SUBREDDIT: r/Scams
TITLE: Scams
DATE: 2018-01-13
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/7q14fl/scams/

--- POST TEXT ---

Scams educate individuals and try to sell products or take advantage of a person through means of misinformation and reap the benefits of someone who doesn't have much knowledge on a certain product or organisation.

What they do is try to bring someones attention to something they believe they need, such as phising where they alert you to your online security being compromised and offer a solution.

The common part that scams all share is that they are based on a lie, that this 'thing' they tell you about, it doesn't actually exist.

If they have you hook line and sinker, you will want what they say they have, and you will try to call bluffs to ensure they are telling the truth, they will deflect your questions and take you round the mulberry bush promoting their goods or services and then hope to reel you in.

The good part about this is that most scams are online because not as many people use LAN lines anymore, which gives the defendant an excellent advantage, the advantage is known as an online search engine, this is where you can check up on feedback about previous interactions people have had with said-company and form a sound opinion about whether or not to proceed with the transaction.

The safest way to avoid scams is to take less risks on the internet, to do your research about companies and to ensure you know what you're dealing with at all times when it comes to identifying yourself on the internet. One thing to keep in mind is to be wary and possibly avoid interactions with people or organisations that you believe may be operating underground (non-mainstream) that don't have a lot of feedback about them, especially the ones that don't have ties with real estate in real life, a physical address and registered business name.

Scams operate particularly from overseas countries such as China, India, Hong Kong, Thailand; those sorts of countries that have little to do with Australia, America or the Europeans or United Nations basically.

If you see spelling errors or grammatical errors, be wary of what you're dealing with.

People operate from other countries as not to impede the country's law they scam and so the law authorities cannot track them down and bash their door down.

Don't provide evidence of anyone or any organisation unless they are willing to provide you with evidence until you are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt.

Thanks for reading.