SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Not ensuring end use of loan amounts to financial irregularity: SC
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-19
URL: https://theprint.in/india/not-ensuring-end-use-of-loan-amounts-to-financial-irregularity-sc/2883902/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Mar 19 (PTI) The Supreme Court on Thursday said a banker holds a position of trust as he deals with public funds and sanctions of loans beyond his powers, or not ensuring their end use for financial irregularity, which exposes the bank to financial risk.
The apex court said ensuring end use of loan disbursals serves multiple purposes, including securing recovery and ensuring that the loan was not diverted for purposes other than the one for which it was sanctioned or disbursed.
A bench of Justices P S Narasimha and Manoj Misra said that when a bank employee handles money of depositors or customers, it is most essential for him to be cautious and not reckless in the discharge of his duties because he deals with money for and on behalf of his employer.
Show Full Article
It said that although good conduct and discipline are expected from every employee of an institution, it is required more when the institution deals with the money of customers or depositors.
“Any dereliction in discharge of duties by such an employee or officer, whether by way of negligence/casualness, or with deliberate intention, constitutes misconduct,” the bench noted.
The top court delivered its verdict on an appeal challenging a February 2023 order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a matter related to a bank employee who was served a chargesheet on September 30, 2011, on the allegation of irregularities in the disbursement of loans.
The bench noted that the employee had superannuated from service on September 30, 2011, but the disciplinary proceedings continued and one of the charges, that he failed to ensure the end use of the loan, was found partly proved.
It noted that consequently, the punishment of reduction by three stages in the time scale of pay on a permanent basis was imposed upon him.
The employee moved the high court, contending that penalty imposed upon him was not permissible as he had superannuated.
A single-judge bench of the high court set aside the punishment order, while reserving the right of the bank to issue a fresh show-cause notice for action under the pension regulations.
Later, the bank preferred an intra-court appeal before a division bench of the high court.
The high court’s division bench held that service regulations extant permitted continuance of disciplinary proceedings post attainment of the age of superannuation and therefore, the disciplinary proceedings could continue and brought to their logical conclusion.
Aggrieved by the order, the man had approached the apex court.
“Besides, a bank officer holds a position of trust as he deals with public funds. Sanction of loan beyond one’s power, or not ensuring end-use of the loan, amounts to financial irregularity which exposes the bank to financial risk,” the top court said.
“Therefore, penal action on proof of such a charge cannot be questioned merely because no loss is suffered by the bank,” it added.
Referring to the inquiry report and the comments of the appellant, the bench said it did not find any ground to hold that the charge was not partly proved, or that the punishment awarded was “shockingly disproportionate” to the gravity of proven misconduct.
It also dealt with the issue of whether, post-retirement, the punishment as imposed upon the appellant was permissible in law.
Referring to previous verdicts of the apex court, the bench noted if the service rules/regulations extant permit continuance of disciplinary proceedings against an employee before the person had attained the age of superannuation, those can be continued and brought to their logical conclusion even after the person had retired.
“In the instant case, the punishment awarded is of reducing the pay scale by three stages on permanent basis. Such reduction in the pay scale would relate back to the date the incumbent superannuated from service,” the bench said.
It said, ordinarily, a pension is computed based on the salary last drawn/payable.
“Therefore, in our view, it would not be difficult to implement such a punishment as pension can be computed accordingly,” the court said as it dismissed the appeal. PTI ABA VN VN
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.