Last time i have raised the complaint regarding chis fake commitment as the time of selling membership. Then that time i received call from mr rahul arora (Sr customer relationship manager) and promised me to give better service in future as promise and discussed marketing team member are committed me the for service. But but these all are the same when i have booked the complimentary offer the service are very bad & the guy involve in the whole process just making false commitment. As per commitment the property should be 5 star but could believe is it 5 star. I will disclose the all fact of chis that i have faced in 1 night stay in itc fortune park orange (Shidrawali) (13 july to 14 july 2019) 3 adult & 1 child. Itc fortune park orange arrange the only two single bed that i have want to share with you that the hotel room is not clean could you believe this. At night 11:30 p. M i have make call the itc fortune park orange staff regarding the bed (Only two single bed). Then the staff reply me on phone sir i have received you booking information only two adult & two child. So could you believe at night the hotel staff still have not complete information of my booking. After lost of discussion (11:30 p. M) with staff & i have mailed to the staff for booking then they provide the another single bed that is hard mattess. The hotels staff has not enough information regarding my booking which i received. How is possible that hotel staff have not complete information regarding the customer. Before check-out i request hotel staff to please i need to talk to manager. Then the arrange meeting with debabrata mukherjee (Front office manager). After lots of discussion with service & lack of complete information. Manager accept the whole issue which i have faced i the 1 night stay in hotel. In the same time when i have purchased the membership they chis staff not told me the condition of kids age. After purchased the membership chis guy told me that age should be below 6. But same time they (Chis) committed that please leave it for me i will do the My membership (Membership card no: chisnd776056) fee rs 80000/, so based on his mr rahul arora (Sr customer relationship manager) promise that if you have any problem faced in future the money is refunded. So according to commitment i need refund amount. I want to cancel my membership because of fake promises at the time of selling the membership.