SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Ukraine agrees defence cooperation with UAE, Qatar as Zelenskiy visits Gulf
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-03-28
URL: https://theprint.in/world/ukraine-agrees-defence-cooperation-with-uae-qatar-as-zelenskiy-visits-gulf/2891251/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

KYIV/CAIRO, March 28 (Reuters) – Ukraine on Saturday agreed to cooperate on defence with the United Arab Emirates and Qatar as President Volodymyr Zelenskiy travelled to both countries amid escalating tensions in the region.
Qatar’s defence ministry said in a statement on Saturday that Doha and Kyiv have signed a defence cooperation agreement which includes the exchange of expertise in countering missiles and unmanned aerial systems.
“We are talking about a 10-year partnership. We have already signed the agreement with Saudi Arabia, and we have just signed a similar 10-year agreement with Qatar,” Zelenskiy told reporters during an online briefing.
Show Full Article
“We will also sign a 10-year agreement with the UAE. It will happen within the next several days.”
Zelenskiy had earlier been to the UAE and met President Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan as the two countries agreed to cooperate in the fields of security and defence.
The U.S.-Israeli war on Iran has killed more than 2,000 people, upended global markets and effectively shut the Strait of Hormuz.
KYIV OFFERS DRONE TECHNOLOGY, EXPERTISE
Ukraine has offered its air-defence expertise and drone technology to countries in the region.
Zelenskiy hopes to draw support from the Gulf nations in Ukraine’s war against Russia, which is now in its fifth year, as Western military aid faces new uncertainty and Kyiv scrambles for cash to cover its budget deficit and fund domestic weapon production.
More than 200 Ukrainian military and security experts have been dispatched to advise Middle East countries on how to intercept drone attacks that have wreaked havoc on energy infrastructure across the region.
Zelenskiy said that during his visits, he sought to build strategic relationships with the Gulf region and raise funds to invest in weapons production in Ukraine.
The talks focused on weapons co-production, exchanging experiences, and also on securing energy and fuel supplies to Ukraine, Zelenskiy said.
Zelenskiy agreed on diesel supplies for a year to Ukraine but provided no other details. Diesel is key for the Ukrainian armed forces and for the country’s agricultural sector.
Ukraine needed about 700,000 liters of diesel a month, Zelenskiy said, adding that the army was fully supplied.
Earlier this week, Zelenskiy visited Saudi Arabia where the two countries also signed an agreement on defence cooperation.
(Reporting by Olena Harmash and Jaidaa Taha; Editing by Jan Harvey)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.