SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Sikkim Arts and Literature Festival to host literary voices from across nation
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/sikkim-arts-and-literature-festival-to-host-literary-voices-from-across-nation/2895279/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 2 (PTI) The second edition of Sikkim Arts and Literature Festival will host a range of acclaimed writers, thinkers, and artists from across the country, with focus on the northeastern states.
An initiative of the Sikkim Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang, along with the Students’ Welfare Board and Teamwork Arts, the literature festival will take place from April 26-28 at The Ridge Park in Gangtok, Sikkim.
The festival will aim to bring together a “rich tapestry of ideas, stories, and perspective” through a diverse line-up of speakers, including Mamang Dai, Namita Gokhale, Shankar Deo Dhakal, Robin S Ngangom, Ranjit Hoskote, and William Dalrymple.
Show Full Article
The three-day literary extravaganza will spotlight themes ranging from literature and poetry to climate change, ecology, identity, mental health, and cultural memory Soreng-Chakung MLA Aditya Golay said that the festival reflects “our state’s commitment to fostering dialogue, creativity, and cultural exchange”.
“As Sikkim continues to emerge as a vibrant hub for arts and ideas, the festival provides an important platform to bring together voices from across India and the world. We are proud to support an initiative that not only celebrates our rich cultural heritage but also encourages meaningful conversations on issues that resonate locally and globally,” he said in a statement.
Other speakers at the festival include Amrita Tripathi, Anirban Bhattacharyya, Arundhati Nath, Bishnupriya Dutt, Bhim Rawat, Carissa Nimah, Charmi Chheda, Dasho Dorji Dhradul, Dhruba Hazarika, and Hoihnu Hauzel.
Some of the key sessions include “The Wild Pulse”, with Ishan Shanavas and Neha Sinha in conversation with Pema Wangchuk Dorjee, examining forests, biodiversity, and conservation; and “Echoes of Verse”, bringing together Mamang Dai, Ranjit Hoskote, Robin S. Ngangom, and Guru T Ladakhi in an exploration of poetry, identity, and voice.
Other sessions include “Conversations for the Mind”, addressing mental illnesses and the stigma around it, “The Nepali Imagination: Between Mountains and Memory”, exploring storytelling written in the Nepali language across geographies, and “A Natural Disposition: Life in Stories”, where Dhruba Hazarika, Chetan Raj Shrestha and Mamang Dai, in conversation with Rosy Chamling, reflect on their narratives rooted in nature, memory, and lived experience.
“At its core, the Sikkim Arts and Literature Festival is about inspiring young minds and creating opportunities for learning beyond the classroom. By bringing together writers, thinkers, and artists from diverse backgrounds, the festival nurtures curiosity, creativity, and critical thinking among students and young audiences.
“It is a valuable initiative that strengthens Sikkim’s cultural ecosystem while encouraging the next generation to engage with literature, ideas, and the world around them,” Sonam Chopel Sherpa, chairman, Students’ Welfare Board, said.
Mona Chettri, Mridula Ramesh, Nawaraj Parajuli, Pankaj Thapa, Prabin Khaling, Rachita Taneja, Rosy Chamling, Satyadeep S. Chhetri, Sandip Roy, Sonam Ongmu Lasopa, Subi Taba, Suman Billa, Sumeet Shetty, Tashi Chophel, Ujan Dutta, and Vivek Menezes will also be part of the literature festival.
“It is designed as a space for meaningful exchange where diverse voices, ideas and lived experiences come together in conversation. The programme reflects both the cultural richness of the Eastern Himalayas and the urgency of global themes, creating a platform that is inclusive, relevant and deeply engaging,” Syed Shams Jawaid, festival producer and vice president, festivals and special projects, Teamwork Arts, said.
The maiden edition of the Sikkim Arts and Literature Festival was held in May, 2023 in the tranquil Yuksom village, surrounded by rolling hills at the head of the Khangchendzonga National Park. PTI MAH MAH MG MG
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.