SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: US DEA shuts down 200-plus India-linked online pharmacies selling fentanyl-laced counterfeit pills
AUTHOR: Ananya Bhardwaj
DATE: 2026-02-05
URL: https://theprint.in/india/us-dea-shuts-down-200-plus-india-linked-online-pharmacies-selling-fentanyl-laced-counterfeit-pills/2846204/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
The US Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has seized more than 200 website domains linked to an India-based transnational criminal organisation operating in America and allegedly responsible for at least six fatal and four non-fatal overdoses, as part of its crackdown under ‘Operation Meltdown.’
The 200 online pharmacies were allegedly filling hundreds of thousands of orders of diverted pharmaceuticals and counterfeit pills without valid prescriptions to people across the US.
Many of these online pharmacies allegedly sold and shipped counterfeit pills made with fentanyl to unsuspecting customers in the US who believed they were purchasing legitimate medications from legitimate pharmacies.
Show Full Article
“This case demonstrates how foreign-based traffickers exploit our healthcare system, hide behind the internet, and use people inside the United States to move dangerous drugs under the guise of legitimate commerce,” DEA administrator Terrance Cole said in a letter to the public requesting information in support of this ongoing investigation.
“Illegal online pharmacies put poison in American communities. They sell counterfeit and unapproved pills and do not care who gets hurt or who dies. Actions like this save lives. They protect the American people. If you run these sites, supply them, move the money, ship the product, or help them operate, we will find you, we will dismantle your operations, and we will hold you fully accountable under U.S. law.”
According to a DEA statement, the Transnational Criminal Organisation (TCO) tied to these illegal online pharmacies has been under investigation by DEA’s Rocky Mountain Field Division since 2022.
Beginning 27 January, DEA field offices also conducted multiple operations throughout the United States leading to the arrest of four individuals and also issued five Immediate Suspension Orders (ISO) and one Order to Show Cause (OTSC).
Under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA), DEA regulates the handling, storage, and distribution of controlled substances in the custody of pharmacies. The CSA stipulates that pharmacies are only authorised to dispense controlled substances upon receipt of a valid prescription, issued for a legitimate medical purpose, by an individual practitioner acting in the usual course of his or her professional practice.
Investigations revealed that these illegal online pharmacies often use US-based website addresses and professional-looking designs to appear legitimate.
“These companies operate illegally, deliberately deceiving American customers into believing they are legally purchasing safe, regulated medications,” the statement said.
These counterfeit medications, DEA said, are often made with fentanyl or methamphetamine and taking them can lead to serious health risks, including harmful side effects, ineffective treatment, and even death.
DEA also said that they are actively collaborating with the Indian law enforcement partners to “identify, investigate, and dismantle dangerous criminal organisations that engage in these types of illegal drug trafficking operations.”
“Through joint operations, the DEA will continue to pursue significant enforcement actions against illicit pharmaceutical distributors at the source and remains steadfast in its efforts to disrupt the flow of illicit pharmaceuticals that threaten public health and safety of American citizens,” the statement said
The case is being prosecuted by the US Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York.
(Edited by Tony Rai)
Also Read:
Red Fort blast echoes 2011 Delhi HC bombing—’white-collar’ terror cell, doctors & Jaish footprint