They are fake, fraud, cheat & scamsters. They charge hefty for their consultancy services. They neither refund nor provide job offers. Singapore & abroad job cheat scam. Do read fully for shocking details & i got duped by them. They are completely Fake, scam and cheaters — Do not waste your hard earned Money ! All your questions answered here. ( I am one of the person who lost my hard earned money with them ) What they Claim & how much Diraa HR charge ? In the name of Employment agency services, they provide consultancy services to place a candidate with domestic or overseas employer. Means they provide Job offer to required candidates across the state of Tamil Nadu, India & even abroad(Primarily they say Singapore). Is it for free ? Obviously not. Now you are scared right ? You should. That’s how scams run. They collect upfront fees for overseas job. They collect up to 5 lakhs, may be even more. Depends on the candidate, their Psychology, their emergency need etc. If the candidate is more urgent they will try to collect as much as possible. Remember that any job agency who are collecting upfront fees without a job offer, visa etc.. is most probably a scam barring very few. They say they place candidates in different sectors like Engineering, banking, Finance, Technology, Construction, Logistics etc. Fraudulent Business Model They collect upfront fees (humungous money upfront for overseas job) but they do not release offers to the majority. Just in their company letter head they give a assurance that they have collected money. After certain point of time, Candidates given money would be begging for refund. They keep telling candidates to wait, wait & the wait continues. After certain point of time the candidates ask for a refund from Diraa HR services or Diraa Consultancy Services. They try to convince you and delay further. Then if the candidate is pressurizing more, they do only 20% refund or even less. There is no hard & fast rule. They keep delaying for months, year or more. Still many people had not got the full refund & still begging for refund. Obviously its their hard earned money that people are loosing. After putting huge stress on the people they try to manipulate that they had already done the refund. You will be heartbroken by this time if you are a candidate. But that’s how they do. Even if they return after a year, just calculate the interest that they would be earning. Simple Mathematics : Assume they are collecting Rs 5, 00, 000 from 100 members in an year 5, 00, 000 * 100 = 5, 00, 00000 Say risk free interest rate is 7% / annum. For an year they would be earning 5, 00, 00000 * 7% = Rs 35, 00, 000 (35 Lakhs) approximately. They earn this 35 Lakhs INR just via interest. Remember there are lot of candidates still awaiting for refund and few have left asking. What do you say ? Left the money with them ? Yes ! But why ? Why because if you raise the voice they will start threatening you. You should think how they operate this business model with ease ? Obviously they should have proper political backup or some legal connections too to threaten you. And Psychologically if your money is with them you will try to go smooth until you get back right ? They take massive advantage of that. But how to address these complaints ? God only knows ! Where they operate ? Is Diraa HR Services at Singapore ? Chennai ? They primarily operate in a city called Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, India. Their business address is : FP 114 1st block 1st floor Jain Cambrae Apartments, Avinashi Rd, next to SMS Hotel, Peelamedu, Coimbatore Tamil Nadu 641004. The building where they operate is a residential apartment and it will have a palatial view if you walk inside the office room. You will start believe that they are genuine. But its not. Also they claim Diraa has office at Chennai — Diraa HR services chennai & they claim they operate at Singapore — Diraa HR Services Singapore, Gulf(Dubai) etc. But not. Who are they & who is Sivaprakash Diraa HR Services ? As far as i know its run by a guy called Sivaprakash and his wife Jessy. (But no idea who are the real proprietors, partners or directors are, i hope they are the ones). The guy Shivaprakash is fair and will attract you by his looks, speeches and definitely will convert you to give money for your required job. Also they have a team under them, few of them i know are Kirupakaran Manikandan (Primarily called Diraa HR Services Manikandan) Swetha Meha Sindhuja Anupriya Suvetha Prabha Gokul Shifana Meenakshi Nithya Etc Etc, definitely many have left their job too… Everybody are well trained to lure & loot you. But Google Reviews, Quora & other social media say they are Genuine ? That’s what they are best at. But they are big fraud & not genuine. Let me decipher further. All are fabricated false reviews written by their own people. Just see there are 3000+ Google reviews, most of them are from their own created ID’s & they have a separate person / team / outsourcing to take care of this. They report and delete the negative reviews & they post positive reviews themselves. You can see some negative reviews by sorting by least reviews of course. Please open your eyes and read those negative reviews given by people & also see how Diraa threaten them in the replies. Always they manage and maintain above 4.5 rating. Its not possible naturally right ? These scams are successfully operated because they have built a trust (Obviously a fake) in all social media & job portals about them. They regularly update the job vacancy at Diraa on all job portals like Shine, Naukri, Monster jobs, LinkedIn etc. Many people see this & fell under the trap laid by them. As i mentioned they have separate team to do SEO & to manage online portals. People by reading those fake reviews and posts fall into their trap. Just note most of their google reviews, quota answers will contain only one review / answer and that’s for Diraa. Obviously you can come to a conclusion that they are fake reviews. What to do if you are cheated / duped ? If you are one of the victim and thinking what to do ? seriously i do not have an answer and i am one among you. Also i know few others who are on the same page. I saw few of them written to consumer complaints but no idea about the outcome. You can try commenting here with your mail id / contact numbers, there by some kind of community touch can be there where you can connect with the people who are duped by them. But what to do legally ? Seriously no clue. I actually left my money and thought of forgetting about it. What i thought is at least some may benefit after reading this & be cautious with Dira Hr services. Conclusion : Always be careful before giving money to any consultants or agencies without getting Visa or job offer. Remember Diraa is one of the cheaters and there may be many in the market. Who knows this same group can change the name & operate later. I was under huge financial problem & still going through. Our mental & Physical conditions will be affected more rather than the money. Just think thrice before dealing with this cheaters. Thanks for reading ! Have a great job search and i pray to the nature all find your dream job in your dream location. Bye Bye ! Diraa Hr Services Charges Diraa Hr Services Job Vacancy Diraa Hr Services Manikandan Diraa Hr Services Singapore Is Diraa Hr Services Fake ? Sivaprakash Diraa Hr Services DIRAA HR SERVICES SCAM ALERT. THEY ARE FAKE, FRAUD, CHEAT & SCAMSTERS. THEY CHARGE HEFTY FOR THEIR CONSULTANCY SERVICES. THEY NEITHER REFUND NOR PROVIDE JOB OFFERS. SINGAPORE & ABROAD JOB CHEAT SCAM. Help, pray for me & guys atleast pls save your money & don't get cheated by them. I m writing this complaint that atleast somebody may benefit & don't get cheated by them. Was this information helpful? No (4) Yes (46)