SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: In Delhi for AI Summit, Dutch PM Schoof calls for global collaboration on AI, minus US & China
AUTHOR: Keshav Padmanabhan
DATE: 2026-02-19
URL: https://theprint.in/diplomacy/in-delhi-for-ai-summit-dutch-pm-schoof-calls-for-global-collaboration-on-ai-minus-us-china/2858962/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Dutch Prime Minister Dick Schoof Thursday called for global collaboration on artificial intelligence without the US and China. Schoof, called for middle powers and other like minded countries to work together to “own their own AI technologies”.
“We see developments in China and the US. Other countries in the world should work together to create our own AI, to own our own AI. It is very good that PM Modi hosted this conference. I was happy to see a number of leaders, the President of Brazil, the leaders from Bolivia and other countries,” said Schoof at a press conference in the national capital on the margins of the India AI Impact Summit 2026.
The Dutch Prime Minister added: “I think the fact that the US and China were not at this conference [at the leaders level], clearly shows that other countries see rewards in working together, along with India on how to manage AI. In Davos, Prime Minister Mark Carney called for the middle powers to work together…It is related to European countries and others…We can really unite together to make our own bloc so to speak.”
Show Full Article
Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the summit earlier Thursday where he outlined India’s vision for the use of artificial intelligence— ‘MANAV’.
Under ‘MANAV’, Modi declared that AI must be based on moral and ethical systems, accountable governance, national sovereignty, accessible and inclusive and valid and legitimate. The India AI Impact Summit in New Delhi was co-chaired by President Emmanuel Macron.
A total of 20 heads of states and governments were present at the summit, while around 45 ministerial delegations participated in the deliberations Thursday. It is the first time the summit is being held in South Asia.
“In the past, technology created divisions, but today, our goal should be to make AI technology accessible to all. Therefore, as we discuss the future of AI, we must also place the aspirations of and priorities of the Global South at the centre of AI governance,” declared Modi.
Countries around the world are increasingly competing in the field of artificial intelligence with differing visions put forth by the US, China and the EU. The US has pushed for lesser regulation and urged countries India to build their competence on American technologies.
China has also joined the AI race, while the EU has instituted its own set of rules and regulations under an AI Act. India has been focused on gaining investments in data centres and to host the myriad of platforms being developed across the world.
The EU and Canada have in recent months pushed to develop their own capacities independent of the US as transatlantic ties have taken a hit following US President Donald J. Trump’s return to the White House last year.
The US has sought to leverage its economic heft and technological prowess across the world. From shifting the US’ focus away from NATO, to seeking sovereignty over Greenland, Trump has made Ottawa and European capitals focus on increasing its autonomy from Washington.
For India, the summit is a part of its diplomatic vision to join the conversation surrounding the evolution of AI and to find a middle road in terms of regulation of the technology. It is keen to strike technological partnerships with different countries to protect its own interests.
Schoof announced that the Netherlands is keen to partner with India in its technological story, with firms such as ASML—the Dutch manufacturing firm that is the world’s largest supplier of photolithography systems for the semiconductor industry—keen to invest in the South Asian nation.
Modi and Schoof held a bilateral meeting on the margins of the summit, where the two leaders discussed the strategic arrangement between India and the Netherlands in areas such as water management, semiconductors, and defence.
In the margins of the AI Impact Summit I also spoke with Prime Minister
@narendramodi
about the outstanding relations between our countries. We work together closely in areas such as high-tech, security, water management and trade.
And with our upcoming Strategic Partnership we…
pic.twitter.com/KuE3zqri35
— Dick Schoof (@MinPres)
February 19, 2026
Among topics discussed was the Russia-Ukraine war, with Modi said to have given Schoof a personal assurance that India is on the side of peace in the almost four-year war.
(Edited by Amrtansh Arora)
Also Read:
India-EU now natural and preferred partners, says Jaishankar at mobility gateway office launch