SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Congress claims of FCRA Bill being anti-Christian are ‘lies’: Rajeev Chandrasekhar
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/india/congress-claims-of-fcra-bill-being-anti-christian-are-lies-rajeev-chandrasekhar/2892841/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Thiruvananthapuram, Mar 31 (PTI) BJP Kerala state president Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Tuesday termed as “lies” the Congress allegations that the Centre’s FCRA Bill was anti-Christian.
Chandrasekhar said that the central government was coming out with amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) to deal with any money laundering carried out by entities receiving money from abroad.
“Congress is claiming that the FCRA Amendment Bill will adversely impact the Christian community. This is a lie. It is a propaganda being spread just before the Assembly polls,” he said.
Show Full Article
“I assure you that no one will be harassed by the amended provisions of the FCRA. It is my 100 per cent guarantee,” he added.
He further said that Christian, Muslim and Hindu community organisations, as well as various other trusts and educational institutions, were receiving funds under FCRA.
“So, don’t twist it to say that only the Christians will be affected. Please do not jump to conclusions and take up the Congress narrative,” Chandrasekhar said.
He further said that all the religious organisations and institutions were properly using the funds received by them and questioned, “Why is the Congress concerned?” “Is it laundering money received from abroad under FCRA? Are they misusing it? This propaganda was expected by us. They have nothing to say about development or the future of the state and the children here.
“They also have nothing to say about what they did for Kerala when they were in power. Whatever false propaganda they run, we will bust it,” he contended.
The BJP leader said that there was no need to politicise the issue; instead, discussions should be held.
He also asked, “Do you think we are stupid to bring such an amendment just 10 days before the election?” Chandrasekhar also attacked the CP(M), calling it the B-team of the Congress and questioned the Left party for accepting the support of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which is the political arm of the banned Islamist organisation, Popular Front of India (PFI).
He said that the State General Education Minister, V Sivankutty, had said that the Left party will accept the support of the SDPI.
“Realising the damage it can cause, the CM on Tuesday said that SDPI support will not be taken. So, there is confusion within them on the issue,” the BJP leader said.
He alleged that a party that ruled the state for 10 years is now seeking SDPI support to win this time.
“Is this what CPI(M) meant when it said everything would be fine after it comes to power?” Chandrasekhar questioned. PTI HMP ADB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.