SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: What’s worse—boycotting Haleem or stuffing it in dosa & croissant?
AUTHOR: Yunus Lasania
DATE: 2026-02-25
URL: https://theprint.in/opinion/hyderabad-heart/whats-worse-boycotting-haleem-or-stuffing-it-in-dosa-croissant/2862978/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

I
f there is one thing that everyone in Hyderabad anticipates every year, it is Haleem in Ramzan. Originally introduced in hotels
during
the month as a healthy meal after breaking one’s fast, the meaty dish today has transcended into a
course
that everyone loves. There are literally
‘
Haleem runs
’
,
whereby
people try
to
find the best
slow-cooked mutton or beef
dish
in the city
.
Sadly, the dish
has also become the target of two things: communalism and bad experiments. Certain right-wing
groups on social media
have urged
non-Muslims not to eat Haleem
, saying
it is a ‘Muslim’ dish and buying it would help Muslim restaurant owners.
The bigotry and a call for economic boycott of Muslims aside, this
is
simply
ridiculous. By this logic, should Muslims
also
stop eating food made by Telugu Hindus in the state?
Hyderabadis,
whether
Hindu or Muslim, enjoy their Biryani and Haleem as much as they enjoy their idlis, dosas, bhajjis and even Andhra meals—
a prominent Telugu trait
. So this attack on anything
associated with
Muslim culture needs to stop, because food is what many of us bond over.
Show Full Article
I am pretty sure these
right-wing Hindutvavadis
who call for this nonsense sit and eat biryani in the same hotels we
visit
. Either way, Ramzan is a month that turns Hyderabad into a food Mecca, and nobody really cares who makes what. In fact, it is a good time for people
to familiarise themselves
with traditional Hyderabad cuisine (especially made in Muslim homes).
Telugu people from Hyderabad and Telangana love Hyderabadi food, and Hindus, Muslims and Christians make the same dishes at home because
of the
shared culture.
Also read:
Haleem hopping in Hyderabad—why Ramzan is worth every sleepless night in this Telangana city
Not-needed combination of Haleem and dosa
My other grouse
during
Ramzan is the weird marketing Haleem goes through every year.
Social media
influencers now do ‘30 days of Haleem’ tasting to
‘guide’
us to the best dish
, which is highly subjective. Honestly, no one needs
that information
.
However, what is now starting to annoy me is the butchering that Haleem is going through. An Instagram reel
showed
a restaurant selling Haleem dosa. Dosa has already
faced much
abuse
over the years,
with
people using
cheese, schezwan, chocolate, and whatnot. But
using
Haleem on it is crossing the line.
It didn’t end there
. I saw Swiggy
selling
‘Mutton Haleem Cropie’ (croissant). Ummm, what?
Haleem is a dish supposed to be eaten hot. It’s mashed up meat, lentils and spices topped with fried onions. Why does that need to be on a
croissant
? As it is, some of the restaurants here have begun selling Haleem with a topping of Chicken 65 and Mutton Nallis.
I am generally not a purist, like I don’t have a beef with anyone who says biryani can be vegetarian, but whatever is happening to Haleem needs to stop. As if right-wing
communalism
, which is part of a more dangerous pattern to marginalise Muslims,
wasn’t
enough
that we now have
this butchering of the dish. It’s terrible.
Haleem was first sold in Hyderabad at Madina Hotel in 1947, and for a long time, it was not even a big deal. I remember as a kid going with my family beyond Charminar to eat Haleem during Ramzan. This was in the 1990s, when we could still take our car to the Old City, which is unthinkable today.
So, from a dish that was mildly popular, Haleem has gone on to become a craze now. And as a dish, it deserves that status, so I hope this fad of creating more things with Haleem stops. Let Haleem be, please.
Yunus Lasania is a Hyderabad-based journalist whose work primarily focuses on politics, history and culture. He posts on X @YunusLasania. Views are personal.
(Edited by Saptak Datta)