SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Colour-changing ball to fake cheers, PSL opener gets crying emojis from Pakistani fans
AUTHOR: Triya Gulati
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/go-to-pakistan/colour-changing-ball-to-fake-cheers-psl-opener-gets-crying-emojis-from-pakistani-fans/2890595/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Two overs into the Pakistan Super League opener, the ball pulled off a different kind of hat-trick. It started out white, turned pink, then dark red, leaving players and fans doing double takes.
The unusual moment during the 26 March match between Lahore Qalandars and Hyderabad Kingsmen at Gaddafi Stadium quickly exploded online and raised questions about quality control in a league that claims to have global standards.
The explanation itself was simple enough. Fielders routinely rub the ball against their jerseys to maintain shine. In this case, the maroon dye from Hyderabad Kingsmen’s kit appeared to bleed onto it.
Show Full Article
Hyderabad captain, Australian cricketer Marnus Labuschagne, said in the post-match press conference that he had alerted the on-field and second umpires.
“I said after the second over, ‘What’s going on? The ball is red. It must be from the clothes or something. I haven’t seen anything like that,” said Labuschagne.
🚨🚨Marnus Labuschagne on the change of ball color
"I did say to the umpires after the second over, What’s going on? The ball is red, it must be from the clothes or something like that. I’ve never seen anything like
pic.twitter.com/VHSXouHZYx
— SheR•ALI (@Sher__Ali)
March 26, 2026
As Lahore’s innings progressed, the ball’s new hue became impossible to ignore. Labuschagne noted that while minor colour transfer from bats or pads isn’t unusual, this was unprecedented.
“I’ve seen paint come off bats or pads onto the ball, but never from clothing. I’m sure they’ll sort it out,” he added.
Apart from being meme fodder, some experts have called the episode a symptom of a deeper malaise.
Also Read:
Pakistan bowler Naseem Shah asked why Maryam Nawaz got queen treatment. Imran fans jumped in
Tears and fake cheers
Former Pakistan cricketer Shoaib Akhtar
lashed out
at the management.
“I have not seen any other league, tell me the balls turned red because of the colour of the jersey, when you did not have money to make good quality jerseys then why do you buy a team, your captain Labuschagne went away after insulting you in the world,” he said. “Why buy a team if you can’t afford good jerseys?“
Former Pakistani cricketer Kamran Akmal, meanwhile, resorted to sarcasm on the YouTube channel The Game Plan: “I thought Hyderabad Kingsmen got their kits dyed at some dupatta gali,”
Meanwhile, Pakistani cricket fans didn’t seem to know whether to laugh or cry, with jokes and crying emojis in many posts on X.
“Players rubbing the ball and accidentally unlocking a new feature,” wrote @PakistaniChuran.
PSL 2026 really had the ball turning pink mid-match because of jersey color transfer 😭🏏
Players rubbing the ball and accidentally unlocking a new feature 💀
Even Marnus Labuschagne said he’s never seen anything like this
#PSL
#Pakistan
#PakistanCricket
pic.twitter.com/i7J8eHdTbm
— Pakistani Churan (@PakistaniChuran)
March 27, 2026
One, @_fatimaaaaaaaa_, asked in disbelief if she was “tripping”.
am i tripping or the ball color in this match is pink…
— fatima 🍉 (@_fatimaaaaaaaa_)
March 26, 2026
“Please change your fabric production company. PSL is White ball t20 tournament not pink ball test match,” implored @EchoesbyZayn.
Please change your fabric production company 🙏🏻 PSL is White ball t20 tournament not pink ball test match🤦🏻
— Zayn Echoes (@EchoesbyZayn)
March 27, 2026
But the embarrassment didn’t end there. Even though the
stands were empty
due to a government mandate, applause could be heard in the background. It turned out that PSL had added fake cheers in the background.
“Fake Noise is so irritating in PSL 11,” complained @chwaleedrauf1.
Fake Noise is so irritating in PSL 11
This is not good ya to crowd allow kro yah yeh band karo
#psl
— CH WALEED RAUF (@chwaleedrauf1)
March 26, 2026
The controversy arrives at a tricky time for the PSL.
The 2026 season is already being played behind closed doors due to the West Asia crisis. Add to that a reduced venue list — Lahore and Karachi — and the absence of several overseas players who have opted for the Indian Premier League.
(Edited by Asavari Singh)