SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: CM Omar assures review of Public Service Guarantee Act
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/india/cm-omar-assures-review-of-public-service-guarantee-act/2894235/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Jammu, Apr 1 (PTI) Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Wednesday opposed a private member’s bill seeking changes to the Public Service Guarantee (PSG) Act, while assuring the House that the government will undertake a comprehensive review of the law to make it more effective.
BJP’s Ranbir Singh Pathania moved the bill to amend PSG Act in the Legislative Assembly, citing changing circumstances and technological advancements.
“The private member’s bill has reminded us that the PSG Act remains in force in Jammu and Kashmir, despite several changes and the removal of many provisions from the statute book after 2020,” the chief minister said, acknowledging the member’s concerns and adding that the time may be ripe to revisit the key legislation.
Show Full Article
Abdullah said the scope of services under the Act has expanded significantly since its inception, with several new services added over time to ensure timely delivery of government services to the public.
He, however, pointed out gaps in implementation, particularly delays in the appellate mechanism, indicating that some provisions may be inadvertently allowing inefficiencies.
“The objective of the Act is to ensure time-bound delivery of services and proper disposal of cases. If that is not happening, we need to address those shortcomings,” he said.
The chief minister informed the House that a group of senior officers will be constituted shortly to review the Act in detail and suggest necessary restructuring or amendments.
“If legislative changes are required, we will bring them before the House in the next session,” he said.
Urging caution against hasty legislative action, Abdullah requested the member to withdraw the bill, assuring that the government will take a considered view on all the issues raised.
Pathania later withdrew the bill, saying he is satisfied with the assurance. PTI TAS TAS KVK KVK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.