Dear Sir/Madam, 
 I am a frequent flyer who travels quite frequently domestically and internationally. I was witness to a shocking conversation involving pilots.
 When I had recently travelled overseas and was at a very popular mall……..while I was waiting in a coffee shop (Waiting for my wife to finish her shopping). Several gentlemen of Indian origin came to the same coffee shop. It was evident with their conversation that they are Pilots of Jet Airways a leading airline in India. Except for two pilots the others left to do some shopping in the mall, the two pilots who stayed back, from their conversation, I could make out that apparently one is a senior (commander) & the other a first officer, started conversing in Kannada, a language that I understand and speak very fluently (I could not help but overhear as they were sitting very very close to me were quite loud). Either they were oblivious to the fact that another Indian is sitting in the next table or they assumed by my very distinctive Non Indian looks & appearance that I cannot speak Kannada, or maybe they simply did not care as they are in a foreign country and have assumed that maybe people cannot understand Kannada.
The first officer supposedly had his medical/fitness test in a few weeks & was confiding with the commander that he was apprehensive & skeptical about clearing the same as his cholesterol levels were high and he had certain other issues. What shocked me was…..the senior pilot rather than put sense into the junior's head suggested he take some pills that will thin the blood or show reduced cholesterol levels during the medical test and also assured him that he will pass his medical/fitness test with flying colors if he listens and does exactly what the commander says, The commander was boasting that this is what he & most of the pilots in India have been doing for ages and that there are many techniques to cheat the many tests that are conducted on the pilots, only if they ever do a random check he will definitely fail or get caught and that he has resorted to cheating the system for ages rather than comply with the guidelines. The senior pilot seemed to have a solution for every test including alchohol, he was mentioning that there is a drug which will mask alchohol in their blood and he frequently takes the same...Now isn't that scary...
The senior pilot also mentioned that the doctors who perform the test CANNOT BE BRIBED to get clearance, and the only way is to cheat the system rather than take corrective measures/steps.
While I was very very glad to hear that the doctors cannot be bribed, but was shocked that pilots have found a way to cheat the system.
After the discussion about the various parameters of the medical tests and various ways to cheat the same, the topic moved to sex. Both the pilots (from what I overheard were apparently married & with kids too) had employed the services of commercial sex workers the previous night and were sharing their experiences with each other as to how good the experience was and then exchanged the numbers of women & pimps to try out on their next visit. while it’s none of my business to interfere in anyone’s sex life. Aren’t they compromising our national security by sleeping with unknown women? What if they are walking into a honey trap? What if they are blackmailed to smuggle drugs/weapons/bombs on board? What bout diseases like aids? What if they are forced to carry contraband into a foreign country or our own country?
Also aren’t these guys compromising our safety and security, whilst cheating the medical test and flying may seem ok to the pilots, What about us flyer who are at the mercy of these pilots, what if something happens like if one of them has a fatal heart attack while flying. 
Am aware that the job of a Pilot is very very demanding and that they shoulder a lot of responsibilities, What about the lives of hundreds of passengers, what about the multimillion dollar machines that they operate, what about the reputation of our country and the company that they represent, aren’t these important responsibilities as well.
Do they they think that rules should not be applied to them or their families. Do the pilots think they are above the law and invincible.
Hope you will highlight the issues that I have mentioned and expose the pilots to the public. Aren't our lives valuable.


Regards.
An Air Traveller