This complaint is regarding my experience with international travel desk person named mudit. I am not happy with the answers provided to me. Below are my queries asked to international travel desk regarding my trip to bali on 7th oct, 2017. Booking id - nl[protected]. 1. I see everyday news about bali with the volcano about to erupt and recently declared state of emergency. They were saying that volcanic ash and smoke are released when erupted and it might impact people nearby and flights will be disrupted if eruption happens. There are few mountains which started erupting in bali. 2. Airlines like singapore airlines are going with travel advice and rescheduling the trip or cancelling because of the volcanic activity in bali. Australia country is giving for travel advice to the travelers going to bali from last few days. 3. Checked with my airlines-airasia today and they informed me about two options: A. Rescheduling the trip to the future date without any charges. B. Cancelling the trip and the complete amount will be put into a wallet where we have to book airasia airlines within 90 days. The above options were not given last week but they have given this week. This clearly says things have changed from normal to the next level. 4. Mr mudit was recommending/suggesting/advising me to travel bali saying that situation is normal but every day we see the news about volcano eruptions are not exactly predictable and the impact in distance (In km) will not be exactly estimated. My question to mudit was, can you assure me in email by providing 3 on ground contact numbers whom i can reach if something worst situation happened while i was in bali and take my remaining expenses after my trip end date 11th oct, 2017. This expenses includes my flight fare and my hotel expenses etc. I did not get proper answer from him. 5. Mudit was bringing reschedule of travel date but with the current situation in bali no one can predict when all things become normal. With this unpredictable situation how i can go ahead and give him the reschedule date. If the situation is not normal to that new reschedule date, i asked can we reschedule it again and received no response from him and said need to check with management. With all the above 5 points why can't makemytrip management understand the customer request and cancel the trip and accommodate a travel voucher/refund amount for the amount i paid for bali trip. This cancellation request is not raised for my personal reasons and is due to natural calamity. I hope makemytrip will understand my issue and will do changes to the cancellation policy and issue me the refund amount/travel voucher so that i can go ahead and have trip to another country instead of waiting with unpredictable situations in bali. Note: requesting you to respond at the earliest as my travel date is on 7th oct, 2017. Reference id:[protected]