SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Venezuelan oil exports hit 6-year high as India fills China gap
AUTHOR: Lucia Kassai
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/economy/venezuelan-oil-exports-hit-6-year-high-as-india-fills-china-gap/2894637/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Indian refiners are emerging as the largest buyers of Venezuelan crude oil, filling the void left by former top importer China as it cuts purchases following the US’ move to control the Latin American nation’s oil sales.
Shipments to India soared by more than fourfold in March, surpassing those to the US, according to shipping reports compiled by Bloomberg and data from maritime intelligence firm Kpler Ltd. Countrywide exports now stand at 890,000 barrels a day, the highest since December 2019, the data shows.
Fueled by a tide of imported diluents — key additives used to thin heavy, tar-like crude so it can flow through pipelines —  Venezuelan production continues to ramp up, in turn boosting flows. March imports rose to nine cargoes, compared with seven in February. Diluents were imported by commodity traders Vitol Group and Trafigura Group, which were entrusted by the Trump administration to help sell the country’s oil, and Chevron Corp., which holds a license to produce and sell the nation’s crude.
Show Full Article
Indian refiners, including Reliance Industries Ltd., Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and Indian Oil Corp. have purchased a combined 343,000 barrels a day for loading in March. Indian companies may continue to tap Venezuela’s oil supplies to weather disruptions triggered by the conflict in the Middle East.
Click here for document with detailed export data.
The traders have continued to move Venezuelan oil to storage tanks in the Caribbean. Close to 18 million barrels of crude oil were transported to the Bahamas, Curaçao and St. Lucia this year. Volumes have started to trickle out, with PBF Energy lifting a cargo from the Bahamas. In March, the vessel SFL Tiger loaded oil in Curaçao and signals Italy as its final destination.
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Bloomberg news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.
Also read:
Tamil Nadu’s textile engine is missing 3 lakh migrant workers as LPG panic triggers lockdown nightmares