SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Bumble scammer arrested by Delhi Police had private videos of 64 women on his phone—charge sheet
AUTHOR: Bismee Taskin
DATE: 2025-02-19
URL: https://theprint.in/india/bumble-scammer-arrested-by-delhi-police-had-private-videos-of-64-women-on-his-phone-charge-sheet/2502141/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
The Delhi Police earlier this month filed a chargesheet against Tushar Singh Bisht, accused of conning approximately 500 women on social media and dating apps, including Bumble and Snapchat, using pictures of a Brazilian model, ThePrint has learnt.
The court has, so far, not taken cognisance of the chargesheet.
According to sources from the police, the key evidence was the objectionable videos of 64 women recovered from the accused’s phone. He allegedly used the videos to extort money from the women. The police are awaiting the forensic report of the accused’s mobile phone.
Show Full Article
“The SIM card and the mobile phone—used in the crime—were recovered. We found his chats with multiple women. In his disclosure statement, he also confessed to the crime,” a senior police officer told ThePrint.
According to the police, 23-year-old Bisht, a BBA graduate who worked as a technical recruiter in a Noida-based private company. “Initially, he started talking to women, generally, for amusement. Later, he started asking them for money and realised it was becoming easy for him to extort money from them. He would ask for Rs 5,000-10,000 from each woman. He did it for one-and-a-half years,” the officer said—as mentioned in the charge sheet.
At the time of his arrest, DCP (West) Vichitra Veer said Bisht was using a virtual international number and got himself registered on Bumble and Snapchat, posing as a model from the United States and visiting Delhi for shoots. DCP Veer said that Bisht interacted with 500 women on Bumble and 200 others on Snapchat.
The police sources said that while Bisht was suspected to have duped over 500 women, the chargesheet contained only the complainant’s statement since most other women declined to record their statements.
“He would blackmail the women, all adults between the age of 18-30, with their photos. First, he would lure them by talking about daily things, about how he was a model, working in Delhi, and then would ask for their number,” another source said.
The matter came to light after a complaint was filed against Bisht with the Delhi Police on 12 December last year.
In the complaint, a woman stated that Bisht and she met on a social media platform and became friends. According to the police, the woman shared her private photos and videos with Bisht on WhatsApp and Snapchat. Since then, on several occasions, the woman asked Bisht to meet her. He allegedly refused every time.
Bisht then allegedly sent a private video to the woman on WhatsApp and blackmailed her for money, threatening to leak her videos. When the accused kept pressuring the woman for more money, she filed a complaint against him.
Also Read:
Passenger caught using someone else’s ‘lost passport’ to travel to Canada, 2 agents arrested