SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Right-wing jingoists will never get Himanshi Narwal’s patriotism. She wants to build, not burn
AUTHOR: Karanjeet Kaur
DATE: 2025-05-06
URL: https://theprint.in/opinion/himanshi-narwal-patriotism-right-wing-jingoists/2616180/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

A
nyone still trying to locate
the
rock bottom on Indian social media is on a fool’s errand. Every time I think
the
loudest, self-appointed
R
ight-wing patriots
on X
have plumbed the absolute depths, they hit a fresh crater. This week’s spectacular low is the coordinated assault on Himanshi Narwal and A
a
rti R Menon, survivors of the Pahalgam terrorist attack, for the unpardonable sin of calling for peace over vengeance. These
keyboard
warriors shape our national discourse… and we let them.
The Pahalgam terrorist attack on
22
April ripped through India, and the fiction of “normalcy in Kashmir”
furthered by our government. It’s undoubtedly one of the most horrific incidents in modern India, where militants stormed a tourist site, singling out Hindu victims after demanding to know their religion. Among the 26 dead was Lieutenant Vinay Narwal, honeymooning in Kashmir with his wife, Himanshi. The couple, both in their twenties, had been married for only six days.
A photograph of Himanshi crumbled beside her slain husband’s body in the Baisaran meadows became the defining image of national heartbreak. Within hours, that photo—and later, a Ghiblified version of it—had been shared thousands of times. Right-wing ideologues
particularly amplified the image to push their own agendas against Kashmiris, Indian Muslims, and Islam at large.
Show Full Article
Narwal’s personal tragedy offered social media a blank canvas to paint its own nationalistic fantasies of annihilating Pakistan. After all, nothing drives engagement like a young
woman
draped in grief.
And then, a few days after everyone had already spoken for her, Narwal spoke for herself. That’s when all the care and concern curdled.
Virulent misogyny
At a blood donation camp organised on what would have been her husband’s 27th birthday, Narwal called for peace, not vengeance. “We don’t want people going against Muslims or Kashmiris,” she
said
. “We want peace and only peace. Of course, we want justice, but the government must take precise steps against specifically those who did us wrong.” Narwal wanted the terrorists
to be brought to justice
, not
a community facing
collective punishment.
This wasn’t in the script. The keyboard brigade had anointed her their poster girl for righteous rage, so the betrayal was unforgivable. The backlash relied on the strongest tool in the
Right-wing
arsenal—good old virulent misogyny.
The attacks and conspiracy theories came from every diseased corner of social media. Within hours, the
Right-wing
army had carried out a forensic examination of Narwal’s social media profiles, and discovered their most potent weapons: She’d studied at JNU and had Kashmiri friends. In the
R
ight-wing imagination, those are the gateway drugs to treason. That was enough to
state
that she had a “hand in getting her husband killed”. Her call for peace was twisted into an “agenda to absolve terrorists and cheer Pakistan”
.
This grotesque cyber-stalking found old posts supporting Justice for Asifa and liking a Kashmiri peer’s photographs, and were all presented as evidence of her “jihadi soch”. They questioned whether the Pahalgam trip was “her idea”. One
post on X
even
stated
that “there was an insider leak… how do we know if she shared her itinerary with her ‘boys’?” Another
rued
: “How did Navy Lieutenant Vinay Narwal fail to do a background check of Himanshi before getting married. This sounds like she trapped him to death.” Yet others labelled her an ISI psy op, and suggested that she would walk away with all the compensation for “only six days” of marriage. Narwal’s attackers also included politicians.
Many strains of misogyny combined in a
comment
on one of her videos, demand
ing
to know if she would say the same things if her father had been killed instead of her husband.
And when
A
a
rti R Menon, who lost her father in the terror attack
,
echoed similar views as Narwal,
she
got mercilessly dragged for it.
Menon had
said
that two Kashmiri taxi drivers took care of her like her brothers. “I had to wait in front of the mortuary till 3am and later return again at 6am. During this time, they accompanied me like their own sister. At the airport, I told them that I got two brothers from Kashmir. I also told them that Allah would save them,” she said.
In return, Menon was mocked for her origins, was schooled for her “
secularism
”, and in a widely shared
tweet
, was told that her parents were better off childless.
Also read:
India must keep Pakistan on tenterhooks. The day of reckoning will come like a thunderbolt
Cost of patriotism
History repeats itself, first as tragedy, then as a
n X
trend. This horrible spectacle falls into a clean pattern of social media hounding Indian women who’ve lost their spouses and family, but refuse to give in to jingoism.
Gurmehar Kaur, daughter of Captain Mandeep Singh, who died in the 1999 Kargil War, is the most famous example of these inquests. In 2016, Kaur held up a
placard
saying, “Pakistan did not kill my dad, war killed him,” and suddenly became public enemy number one. The online patriots who’d never met her father, unleashed rape threats and accused her of dishonouring his sacrifice. Celebrities, including former cricketer
Virender Sehwag
, had joined the pile-on.
Mita Santra,
wife of
CRPF jawan Babloo Santra
, who was
killed in the 2019 Pulwama attack
,
had dared to suggest that “war cannot solve every problem”
.
She was
branded
“cowardly and self-centred”. In 2018, even
e
xternal
a
ffairs
m
inister
Sushma Swaraj
, a BJP
leader
, faced the mob’s fury for her purported support of an interfaith couple. Within hours,
Right-wing X accounts were
calling for her resignation, joking about her “Islamic” kidney. When even cabinet ministers aren’t safe from secular-bashing, what chance do ordinary women have?
But here’s the thing: Neither Narwal nor Menon need
s
a certificate of patriotism—especially from people whose extent of pain is getting carpal tunnel
syndrome
from amplifying hate.
These women have earned the right to define patriotism, and their price of admission is the loss they have suffered. It would have been completely understandable if Narwal had demanded vengeance or
if
Menon had given in to the communal hatred being spread in her father’s name. Instead, they chose something much harder
:
grace and courage. They accepted fortitude. They embraced a vision of India that seeks justice without the genocide of a community.
What would venomous
Right-wing
jingoists, who’ve never had to watch the life ebb out of their partner, or identify a loved one’s mutilated body, know about loss? Their patriotism is distant, performative, and costs nothing. But women who’ve lost everything and still call for peace? That’s
a
love so profound it refuses to give in to violence
—
the kind of strength that builds nations
instead of
burn
ing
them down.
Narwal and Menon speak for a quiet
India that has stood on the sidelines, losing hope by the day
—
that still believes in pluralism. This is the India that can recognise humanity even when brought down to its knees. This quiet India, of reasonable discourse and constitutional values, has lost its voice in the daily tamasha of online abuse. And this is the India the
X
mob desperately wishes would disappear.
It
isn’t
Narwal and Menon’s
calls for peace
t
hat terrif
y
the Right-wing army
. It’s the knowledge that this quiet India still exists. That
despite their best efforts to shout down reason with rage, the soul of this nation hasn’t been completely poisoned. That a sane India might be under siege, but it isn’t dead yet.
The women these
online
warriors are attacking have already done the hardest thing. They’ve looked into the abyss and chosen restraint. Their appeals are proof of a strength that is incomprehensible
to
the digital mob and its primitive politics. The bile and unhinged conspiracy theories have already told us everything about who
the
real patriot is. And it’s not you,
keyboard
warrior.
Karanjeet Kaur is a journalist, former editor of Arré, and a partner at TWO Design. She tweets @Kaju_Katri. Views are personal.
(Edited by Prasanna Bachchhav)