SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Europe pushes back on some US military operations as concerns over Iran war mount
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/world/europe-pushes-back-on-some-us-military-operations-as-concerns-over-iran-war-mount-2/2893495/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By John Irish and Angelo Amante
PARIS/ROME, March 31 (Reuters) – France and Italy have pushed back against some U.S.-Israeli military operations, sources said on Tuesday, as U.S. President Donald Trump criticised NATO allies in Europe as unhelpful in the month-long war in Iran, highlighting divisions.
The decisions came against a backdrop of tensions between Washington and key partners over the war. Earlier this month, Trump called longtime NATO ‌allies “cowards” over their lack of support. On Tuesday, he slammed countries that did not help in the U.S.-Israeli strikes.
FRANCE SAYS NO
Show Full Article
Trump accused France of blocking aircraft carrying military supplies to Israel from flying over its territory, writing on Truth Social that France had been “VERY UNHELPFUL”.
The French presidency said it was surprised by the post and said its decision was consistent with France’s policy since the conflict began.
A Western diplomat and two sources familiar with the matter told Reuters earlier that the refusal, which happened at the weekend, was the first time France had done this since the start of the conflict on February 28.
The sources said Israel had wanted to use France’s airspace to transport U.S. weapons to be used in the war against Iran.
Israel’s defence ministry accused France of actively obstructing the transfer of munitions to Israel, according to a statement.
It said the French ban was imposed despite prior coordination and assurances that the munitions were intended solely for use against Iran, adding that the effort was critical to European security.
The ministry said Israel would cut all defence procurement from France and would have no new engagement with the French military. French arms sales to Israel are relatively small, and it was unclear whether the move would affect French troops serving with U.N. peacekeepers in Lebanon.
ITALY DENIES PERMISSION
Italy last week denied permission for U.S. military aircraft to land at the Sigonella air base in Sicily before heading to the Middle East, sources said.
According to the Corriere della Sera daily, which first reported the news, “some U.S. bombers” had been due to land at the base in eastern Sicily before flying on to the Middle East.
Italy’s Defence Minister Guido Crosetto later denied any rift with Washington or any change in policy. He posted a message on X to say that U.S. airbases remained active, but that Washington needed special permission for uses outside existing agreements.
SPAIN IS MOST VOCAL AGAINST WAR
Meanwhile, Spain defended its decision to fully close its airspace to U.S. planes involved in attacks on Iran.
Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has been among the most vocal critics of the U.S. and Israeli strikes and Defence Minister Margarita Robles said Spain will only allow for the use of its bases for the collective defence of NATO allies.
Trump also singled out Britain as being unhelpful, just as Buckingham Palace confirmed King Charles and Queen Camilla will pay a state visit to the U.S. in late April.
He wrote on Truth Social: “All of those countries that can’t get jet fuel because of the Strait of Hormuz, like the United Kingdom, which refused to get involved in the decapitation of Iran, I have a suggestion for you: Number 1, buy from the U.S., we have plenty, and Number 2, build up some delayed courage, go to the Strait, and just TAKE IT.”
The United States, France, Italy, Spain and Britain are all NATO members, as is Germany, which hosts Ramstein, the largest U.S. base in Europe.
Germany said early in the war there were no restrictions on the U.S. using the base, though the issue has been debated after President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said he believed the war was illegal.
(Reporting by John Irish in Paris, Angelo Amante, Giselda Vagnoni, Crispian Balmer in Rome, Charlie Devereux and Emma Pinedo in Madrid, James Mackenzie in Berlin and Steven Scheer in Jerusalem; Writing by Ingrid Melander; Editing by Sharon Singleton, Keith Weir and Ros Russell)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.