this is vinod goyal.......... i have to complain about the coca-cola int'l promotion mobile draw......i have recieved one mesage on my mobile on 27th july that your mobile no.has been seleted in the coca-cola int'l promotion lucky draw..we have won rupees 450000 GB pounds......we have e-mailed them and they have replied and wants me to send details to recieve my winniing amout........ they have send me........this email to reconfirm my details...... 22 Garden close stamford lince PE92YP,London United Kingdom,England TEL:[protected] Fax: [protected] E-mail:[protected]@hotmail.com CONGRATULATIONS !!! ONCE AGAIN. YOUR DELIVERY DETAILS AND TIME OF ARRIVAL TO YOUR COUNTRY INDIA DIPLOMAT NAME:MR KENNEDY BEN JOHN: WEDNESDAY 28/07/2010 ARRIVAL  TIME/RECEIVING DAY: FRIDAY 30/07/2010 CONSIGNMENT CONTENTS: 1.CASH SEALING STATUS OF WINNING AMOUNT 2.CERTIFICATE OF WINNINGS{HARD COPY} We congratulate you once more for been a lucky winner  on the COCA COLA INTERNATIONAL MOBILE PROMOTION held in the United Kingdom,we want to inform you that your Winning Amount will be delivered to you through our senior diplomatic agent which will come down to your country india to handover your winning amount to you,.Note: the diplomatic officer has been assigned to help you for the conversion of the amount into india rupees to enable you deposit the winning amount to your bank account,Stated below is your details. Full name:vinod kumar goyal. Full Address:c-34,35 sikar house colony,opposite rawat kunj,jaipur,rajasthan(India). Nationality.Indian. Winning Mobile Number: [protected]. Work Telephone:[protected]. E-mail address.[protected]@ymail.com.Date of birth:[protected]. Marital Status:married. Occupation:businessman.. Your winning amount will  be dispatched on wednesday 28th july 2010 and it will arrive in your house address on friday 30th july 2010,the diplomatic agent will contact you as soon as he arrives india for the deliverying of your amount to your house address,You will be required by the indian government to pay little amount to clear your winning amount from custom office as {clearance charges} as soon as your winning amount arrives with the diplomatic agent at  the airport custom office, so that the diplomat  will  be allowed to complete the delivery.Due  to the rules of  this  company  we have taken  charge of every other things which is been required  by  the British Government to make your winning  amount gets to you on time.You are advice to  follow  the instruction of the diplomatic agent as soon as  he arrive because  he has been assigned to be your claim agent. You are required to reconfirm your receiving address as the deliverying will be completed to your house within 72hours. ATTACHED TO THESE MAIL IS THE IDENTITY OF THE DIPLOMATIC AGENT. Once again congratulations on behalf of all our staff. Warms Regards to you and your family members. Thanks & Regards Dr. Richards Morrison. Promo - Manager. WARNING:... Note: Any unclaimed prize will be returned to the treasury of  COCA-COLA  COMPANY . You are advised to keep your winning details strictly to yourself and not share it with any individual or firm to avoid confistication of your prize. ©"COPYRIGHT 2010 COCA-COLA ONLINE  PROMOTION ALL RIGHT RESERVED"* * * * * * D I S C L A I M E R * * This message is confidential and intended for the named addressee(s) only. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by E-Mail return and then delete this message from your system. You should not copy or use it or disclose its contents to any other person. If any part of this message is illegible or if you suspect that the message may have been intercepted or amended, please contact the sender. We cannot accept any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of this message without further investigation on 30th july....a man called me that he is now in india and after paying some clearing charges,he will proceed to my city...... but after that call....i have recieved no msg about this ....as i have tried to call and msg him but thier was no response.................. .....as thier was no respond of my email by them.............please check it out why this coca-cola company,uk has send me such message........is it a.....fraud..........??? i hope that u'll see to it......