My name is mithlesh Kumari and I'm in college and working part time also. On 13th Mar. I ordered 3 items ( Order ID - OD[protected], OD[protected], OD[protected] from flipkart and made payment with Flipkart Pay Later. Next day on 14th March, delivery agent called me and asked for OTP I thought he was going to give all 3 items because he asked me for all 3 OTP and he didn't connected me with guard bhaiya and said ok I'm giving your parcel to guard bhaiya i said ok then guard bhaiya gave me parcel which was from Amazon I got confused why there is only one packet i suppose to got all 4 packets, 1 from Amazon and 3 from Flipkart because in Flipkart all my parcels are showing delivered with OTP verified after office i called delivery agent which was not reachable and then I called Flipkart customer care service they said we can't do anything because OTP se verified hai and then I called Amazon customer care because that agent only gave my Amazon parcel so I wanted to know his informations bt they also said Amazon parcel is delivered we can't do anything contact Flipkart customer care because their items are not delivered. On 19th march flipkart customer care called me and said we can't provide you information about that company whose agent came to delivered why ? you people are also helping that scammer ? I got scammed and I'm so unhappy this is my first time experiencing this type of fraud. Today on 16th April i called him again which is landline no. And he picked i asked him why u didn't gave my Flipkart items he said no I'm Amazon delivery agent i don't do these fraud things I said then why u asked OTP I scared him I said I have CCTV footage in which u asked me 3 OTP for Flipkart items but gave bhaiya only 1 item why? he said no mam no and then he was fumbling i asked his office address also, he said Sarita vihar then disconnected my call. He did scam that's why he was fumbling and my threatening scares him. His no. Is ‪+[protected]‬. So I'm requesting you guys please deliver my all 3 products or I'll complaint to E-FIR. I have proper recording. That guy is totally a scamming person I read his reviews he did so many scams I don't know why you people are not taking any action? U should take action i[censored] want to run your company. Read your reviews guys so... Bad no one is gonna deal with cheater. Idk I just want my parcel or I'll complaint and Tomorrow I'll share u that recording, i have many options and support. 1st Attachment is all 3 OTP I gave to him and 2nd is 3 items which is showing delivered to me bt not delivered. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)