SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: New day, same story: ‘King’ Kohli fails again; India collapse to 185
AUTHOR: Kushan Sarkar
DATE: 2025-01-03
URL: https://theprint.in/sport/new-day-same-story-king-kohli-fails-again-india-collapse-to-185/2429036/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Sydney, Jan 3 (PTI) Rohit Sharma “opted to rest” in the team’s interest but the same old script unfolded on a new day for Indian batters as they surrendered meekly for a paltry 185 in the face of some hostile seam bowling from Australia on the opening day of the fifth and final Test here.
Virat Kohli (17 off 69 balls), whose form and technical weaknesses are also under the scanner, was for the seventh time dismissed in the corridor of uncertainty in the tour, a problem that seems incurable at the moment.
At stumps, Australia were 9 for 1 with stand-in skipper Jasprit Bumrah sending the woefully out-of-form Usman Khawaja (2) back in the hut.
Show Full Article
Teenage sensation Sam Konstas was unbeaten at 7 after hitting Bumrah for a first-ball four. The 19-year-old also had an animated exchange with the Indian star.
Bumrah opted to bat under overcast conditions and the ultra-defensive approach by Indian batters only compounded their problems with Scott Boland’s (20-8-31-4) immaculate length and tremendous discipline leaving them in a disarray.
Mitchell Starc (18-5-49-3) and Pat Cummins (15.2-4-37-2) were equally relentless giving the Indians no room for release shots.
If Rohit’s decision to “rest” was a forward thinking move, the persistence with Kohli is proving to be detrimental and the the celebrated batter might just have one more Test innings left to save his place in the traditional format.
If one takes away the second innings hundred at Perth out of his last 20 Test innings, Kohli has managed an average of 17.57.
He could have been out off Boland’s first delivery but tried to battle hard. However, it has always been that one moment in which his hands and the willow magnetically follow a delivery in the corridor of uncertainty.
Pant curbs natural instincts for a session ========================== Having copped criticism from all quarters for his bizarre shot selection in Melbourne, Rishabh Pant (40 off 98 balls), for a change, copped body blows, trying to curb his natural game.
The big-hitter in him came out only on a couple of occasions with one of them fetching him a straight six off Beau Webster.
Pant put his head down and endured nasty blows on his bicep, helmet and twice in the sensitive abdominal area. He and the dogged Ravindra Jadeja (26 off 95 balls) defended dourly as they added 48 off 151 deliveries for the fifth wicket.
Only 50 runs were scored in the second session and trying not to be adventurous proved counter-productive with most batters retreating in a shell letting Boland and company dictate the terms of play.
Finally, Pant’s patience ran out and one pull shot too many became his undoing.
India realised they haven’t scored enough runs and lost a lot of wickets. The defensive tactic in the second session when the ball got old ended up costing them dearly.
There wasn’t much swing on offer despite cloudy conditions but a decent grass cover ensured that Boland’s back-of-length deliveries proved enough.
As far as Pant was concerned, the “honest conversations” with head coach Gautam Gambhir seemed to have worked with the southpaw respecting the game situation for most part.
If Pant was disciplined, Shubman Gill’s judgement on the last delivery before lunch did cause trouble for India.
Gill (20 off 64 balls) did all the hard work for close to couple of hours before stepping out to Nathan Lyon on the last ball of the session only to be caught at first slip.
In the morning KL Rahul and Yashasvi Jaiswal came in to open the innings but didn’t last long and the saga of first innings failures continued. PTI KHS PM PM PM
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.