SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Govt grants patent to Bengaluru firm for first-of-its-kind system to manage Aadhaar data
AUTHOR: Soumya Pillai
DATE: 2024-07-08
URL: https://theprint.in/tech/govt-grants-patent-to-bengaluru-firm-for-first-of-its-kind-system-to-manage-aadhaar-data/2165732/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Bengaluru-based forensics and cybersecurity solutions firm SISA has been granted a government patent for a first-of-its-kind system designed for the
management of Aadhaar data
.
In a statement, Dharshan Shanthamurthy, the CEO and founder of SISA, said that with SISA radar’s patented Aadhaar
Data
Discovery Engine, organisations (including those dealing with banking, finance and tourism businesses) will now be able to seamlessly ensure compliance with Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) standards, significantly enhancing their
security
protocols.
“This technology not only identifies but securely manages sensitive Aadhaar data, ensuring that confidentiality breaches are a thing of the past,” Shathamurthy said.
Show Full Article
A senior official with UIDAI told
ThePrint
that the government has ensured that the data of all Aadhaar number holders is safe and secure in UIDAI’s Central Identities Data Repository (CIDR).
“UIDAI is working closely with all user agencies to enhance data security measures regarding sensitive user details like Aadhaar. UIDAI uses advanced security technologies to keep your data safe and keeps upgrading them to meet emerging security threats and challenges,” the official said.
Partnering with industry leaders to enhance data security is also part of the government’s plan for protecting people’s Aadhaar details.
SISA officials said the newly patented system would help streamline automated detection, masking, and secure management of Aadhaar data across various platforms without user intervention.
“SISA radar’s new patented technology transforms how we secure Aadhaar data. By integrating sophisticated scanning and policy enforcement without user input, we provide organisations a robust tool to protect individual identities and comply with regulatory requirements with unprecedented efficiency,” the SISA CEO said.
The new technology, equipped with features such as automated detection, masking and secure storage of Aadhaar numbers, aims to create a standard for how organisations handle critical data, also helping businesses protect their most sensitive information effortlessly.
Key features of the unique system
The company said that the new design is enabled with automated data management, which can dynamically scan and identify Aadhaar data within any application stored in a data management system, executing predefined actions such as deletion, masking, or encryption.
All this will be done while complying with the UIDAI regulations, ensuring that all operations uphold the highest standards of data confidentiality, SISA said.
It also offers a one-click solution to truncate or mask Aadhaar data, significantly reducing the time and effort required to secure data while preventing potential breaches, the company said.
(Edited by Radifah Kabir)
Also read:
‘Even Ram bhakts in Assam don’t have Aadhaar’: Congress MLA & CM Sarma’s war of words over NRC