Searchline Database is of the fraud company in india. First they fix the appointment regarding the job or whatever they see if you are ready to work they will ask you to pay 4000 or more according to your project. I took the normal plan in which i need to type 200 pages within 15 days excluding the date of the work, per page 200. Which means 40000 rs for 200 page and the overall accuracy must be 75% then only you will get 40000 rs and 4000 as a refund if you don't want to work further. I payed them 4000 Rs to dadar branch and then their scamming game starts they told me that as soon as i pay them 4000 they will give me the work within 24 hrs but after 72 hrs of waiting they didn't even bother to care for their customer. I was really very frustrated and called them and asked them for the refund as i am not ready to work for them by hearing this they send me the mail of the work within 2mins ( which shows how greedy these people are for money). But... When you see the work you will be shocked. The handwriting in image files are totally messed up as if some illiterate person has written it, and the mistakes in the image file are like some 2years old kid has written it and when i called them regarding this mistake in image file they told me that write it same as given in the image file. I completed the work within 14 days and send it according to them and they told me that they will check it and reply it within 72 hrs and after 72 hrs they mailed me saying that the content in the file is not matching with the image file. I was really frustrated and called their customer care regarding this issue they told me that it was my fault as i didn't read the agreement carefully regarding the issue. ( the issue was i had to type one full line and give one enter and start other line, and i typed it in a paragraph form). I asked about this issue earlier to their dadar branch guy naming Shubham and he told me that just type it without giving enter then why these people are saying something else he just slammed the phone without saying anything. I called the dadar branch and told them about the whole matter and asked them for my refund. They said that it is not possible. Then i called their customer care and scolded them that they are scamming people by the name of this company ( the dadar branch searchline company is working for Global tech solution) i asked them for the refund and told them that if they are not giving me the refund i will take strict actions against them the guy said that "bindass kijiye na sir". I was really angry then that guy said that you do one thing edit the image file and put enter between the lines and send us again i did the same thing as they said and today again they mailed me saying that the image file is not matching. I have nothing to loose now as they have scammed my 4000rs. Please guys it's a humble request that do not believe such companies as they will scam your money and will not bother to even care for you. These people must have sense that they are many files that convert image to text then why these fraudsters are using people and scamming their money. Please guys be aware and spread this information as soon as possible.