1. On July 27, 2023, I requested for release from a project due to the manager's (manager-1) bothersome behaviour. 2. On August 31, 2023, I was released from the project and manager-1, after a tough negotiation. 3. On September 1, 2023 I joined a new project and comfortably settled under a different management hierarchy. 4. On September 8, 2023, I received meeting invite from an HR representative (HR-1) to join a call with Cyber Crime Investigation Response Team (CIRT), manager-1 and Forensic team. 5. In the meeting, with an accusatory tone, I was interrogated about the first email I sent from client's email account when I was working on my previous project. Thoroughly confused, I explained the context of the first email I sent from the previous client's email-id, 3 months ago. It was sent for manager-1 under his supervision and for his requirement. He was fully aware of the context and need and there was nothing unusual about that email. 6. On September 13, 2023, I received an email from HR-1 requiring my signature on an attached self-declaration, 'Data Destruction Declaration' letter, which contained completely fabricated content. It was only at that time, I got to know that manager-1 filed a complaint against me with CIRT alleging that I stole client's data. 7. On September 17, 2023, I filed a complaint on Global Ethics Helpline (GEH) Portal against harassment by manager-1 and HR-1 demanding signature on fabricated DDD letter. At HCLTech GEH is equivalent of Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) 8. On September 21, 2023, GEH investigation started by a committee that comprised of an Internal Committee Member (ICM), a Presiding Officer (PO) and HR-1 assisting the PO 9. On November 19, 2023, The ICM informed that she was ‘shooed away’ by CIRT when she approached them to enforce ethics and get me off their falsified data theft allegations. Therefore, HR-1 demanded that I sign the fabricated DDD letter, despite its falsified contents and threatened with legal action if not signed. I refused to endorse falsified contents, but committed to sign the document after removing falsified contents of the letter. 10. On January 3rd, 2024, HR-1 issued a fully fabricated SHOW CAUSE NOTICE, threatening termination of my employment. 11. On January 4rd, 2024, I escalated HR-1's unethical conduct and in response to that another ICM (ICM-2), was assigned to re-investigate GEH report. 12. On May 15th, 2024, ICM-2 pressed two more new falsified charges on me that was not their before I connected with GEH and submitted her falsified investigation “findings” and her personal recommendations to the senior management to take disciplinary action against me for some unfounded policy violations, identified by CIRT. This was sent to the senior management after harassing me for 5 more months in the name of "investigation" 13. On May 24, 2024, I connected with CIRT leadership team to understand the truth behind the complaint that Manager-1 reported to them against me. It was brought to light that Manager-1's complaint was bogus. CIRT was aware that the complaint cannot be investigated and never acted on the matter. THEN HOW COME ICM-2 RECOMMEND DISCIPLINARY ACTION AGAINST ME BASED ON CIRT's INVESTIGATION? It was brought to light that CIRT wasn't even aware that I was undergoing disciplinary actions based on this bogus complaint raised by manager-1. CIRT retracted all of the falsified charges pressed on me and had HR close the matter. 14. On June 26, 2024, as mandated by the CEO, I reported policy violation to Employee Relations Director (ERD). The ERD refused to redress my grievance stating that I am complaining about his team and he will not hear that. 15. On July 1st, 2024, I followed-up with the ERD and asked who else can review my complaint as I have already published my grievance and I was feeling vulnerable to retaliation. He asked me to check what to do with his HR and directed me not to write to him anymore. 16. On July 24th, 2024, HR retaliation started. Performance rating changed to 'Performance Needs Improvement' (PNI) in the Performance Management System (PMS), despite positive reviews and scores. 17. On July 24th, 2024, I was placed on Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) without any specified areas for improvement. 18. On July 26th, 2024, raised internal ticket inquiring rationale behind PNI rating and specific improvement criteria for PIP 19. August 30, 2024, the ER Director and HR AVP ordered me to discard my previous performance records in the PMS and undergo another investigation on previous year performance by a “facts finding committee” comprised of Senior Vice Presidents, HR and ER. 20. I continue to suffer, as employer pressures for my resignation. They will not terminate to avoid wrongful termination claim. This is not just my story. This is the way women employees are treated at HCLTech. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)