I have been facing replacement issues of my defected realme 9pro mobile [ order id - od[protected] ] which i bought from flipkart. I got a defective realme 9pro on 19th january, 2023 and has asked by the customer care to contact to the realme service providers. Then we contacted them on 24th jan. Now, mobile with all the accessories are already received and certified doa by the realme service provider [ debojyoti infotech, 17/36, dakshindari road, ultodanga ] on 1st february and asked to contact flipkart customer care again to know the procedure to get my replaced item. Now i have call again and again to flipkart customer care but no one is going to give me a perfect solution. I have call again to flipkart and i got two calls from flipkart. One said that realme would be the one who will provide me the replacement and has asked to contact to the realme service provider agian, the other one said we have to submit pic of doa certificate and after that i have to bring back the defected handset from the realme service centre for replacement. So many different replies i got from flipkart. After talking to realme service providers and to the realme service centre (Debojyoti infotech, kolkata, where i hv submitted the defected product and got the doa) the representative of the service centre has asked us to make a conference call among me, flipkart customer care and them. During this call, realme clarifies all the details regarding replacement procedure, then flipkart has asked me to submit the ss of doa which i have already mailed them 36hours back (9:15am, 5th feb 2023). When i said that, flipkart has promised me to contact and resolve the issue within 9pm of the following day (6th feb, 2023). But, as always, the fraud flipkart company didn't bother to contact me. Special mention : i have found the internal scratch in the lense of the ultra wide camera during the open box delivery and denied to share the required otp. But the delivery guy [ph no : [protected] ] who is forced me to give money first before unboxing, has again forced and harassed me and my mom for 40-45 consecutive minutes and tried to walk away with my money. Is this the way flipkart gonna treat their's customers specially when they are women? Also one thing, when i have complaint about the delivery man who harassed and forced me to receive the product, flipkart has promised me to take necessary steps and promised me to notify with every steps they will take. But as always, they didn't do anything. How much fraud, corrupted a company can be? Now, i'm sure about one thing atleast... Flipkart = fraud. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)