SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Left parties back Misri, Brittas writes to home minister demanding probe into online trolling faced by FS
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2025-05-12
URL: https://theprint.in/india/left-parties-back-misri-brittas-writes-to-home-minister-demanding-probe-into-online-trolling-faced-by-fs/2623459/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, May 12 (PTI) Left parties on Monday slammed the trolls targeting Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri, with the CPI(M) questioning the BJP-led government’s silence over the issue and its leader, John Brittas, writing to Home Minister Amit Shah for an inquiry into the online attacks faced by the senior diplomat.
In a post on X, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) shared an image quoting a report on Misri and his daughter being trolled online.
“Why is the government silent? Shame on the trolls,” the CPI(M) said.
Show Full Article
Brittas, the parliamentary party leader of the CPI(M) in the Rajya Sabha and a member of the Parliamentary Panel on External Affairs, condemned the barrage of online attacks targeting Misri and his family, and requested the home minister to take action.
Brittas said the coordinated online assaults, far from being isolated acts of malice, reveal a disturbing pattern of digital defamation aimed at discrediting the very custodians of the country’s constitutional and administrative order.
“It is distressing that his articulation of policies and decisions, duly approved by the ruling dispensation, has been misconstrued and cynically weaponised to personally vilify him. It is, therefore, deeply alarming that Shri Misri has been singled out for a vile torrent of abuse on social media, with his children even being dragged into the mire of toxic commentary,” the Left leader said.
He also mentioned the targeted campaigns of cyber hate and abuse against Himanshi Narwal, the widow of naval officer Lieutenant Vinay Narwal who was killed in the Pahalgam terror attack, over her call for communal amity, and Arathi, the daughter of slain tourist N Ramachandran, who faced cyber bullying for expressing gratitude to local Kashmiris, who came to her aid during the April 22 terror strike.
Brittas urged the home minister to order an immediate inquiry into the online trolling of Misri and the bereaved family members of Pahalgam terror attack victims.
“I also request your good self to instruct the investigation authorities to investigate the source, intent and patterns of digital abuse and take punitive measures against the perpetrators of these heinous actions, and ensure protection for public officials and citizens alike,” the CPI(M) leader said.
In a post on X on Sunday, Brittas called Misri “one of the finest officers” in India.
“Not surprised the way hate and hatred heaped on one of the finest officers of this nation. Vikram Misri discharged the functions assigned by the govt. If parivar handles are unhappy about the ceasefire they should turn it on their leaders who misled with their hawkish postures!” he said.
The Communist Party of India (CPI) claimed that the foreign secretary is being targeted for saying “terrorists want to divide India on communal lines, and people of India defeated that with unity”.
“It’s clear who hates our unity and democracy,” the CPI said in a post on X.
Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya questioned why Misri was being trolled for a decision taken by the government.
“Faced with relentless abusive trolling by the jingoistic RW, India’s Foreign Secretary has had to protect his X handle. Why should the FS be trolled for a decision taken by the PM? Is it because he thanked the Indian people for foiling the communal design of the terrorists?” Bhattacharya asked in a post on X.
Misri, who faced trolling on social media in the wake of India and Pakistan reaching an understanding on May 10 to halt all military actions, has received support from political leaders, former bureaucrats and defence veterans.
Making the announcement on Saturday evening, Misri said the director generals of military operations of the two countries agreed on the understanding during a call in the afternoon and the next talks were scheduled for May 12. PTI AO RC
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.