SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Jan Vishwas Bill to help corporate friends of govt: DMK in Rajya Sabha
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-02
URL: https://theprint.in/india/jan-vishwas-bill-to-help-corporate-friends-of-govt-dmk-in-rajya-sabha/2895429/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 2 (PTI) DMK Member P Wilson on Thursday in Rajya Sabha opposed the Jan Vishwas (Amendment of Provisions) Bill, 2026, alleging it will benefit “corporate friends” of the ruling party.
Participating in the discussion on this bill, he said, “I rise today not merely to oppose but to vehemently resist this dangerous, deeply flawed and utterly reckless piece of legislation”.
He said the bill is not a reform or progressive governance.
Show Full Article
Rather, Wilson said, “It is a calculated dismantling of deterrence, systematic dilution of accountability and a brazen surrender of the rule of law at the altar of corporate convenience.” The DMK member said the powerful can violate the law and walk away by writing a check.
The government has brought a more sweeping and liberal version of the bill to “help the corporate friends”, Wilson alleged.
The bill is pushed through this house without stakeholder consultation, without engagement with states and without public scrutiny, he alleged.
“Why is there a… hurry to move this bill? Whom do you want to save? The first and foremost glaring flaw is the blanket decriminalization of offences without any rationale classification. There is no distinction between minor procedural lapses and serious violations that endanger human life,” Wilson said.
Everything is treated as a technical and swept under the same umbrella, he said, adding that this one-size-fits-all approach is not a reform.
“It is a legislative irresponsibility. It ignores the ground reality that not all offences are equal, and some demand strict deterrence,” he said.
Referring to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, Wilson said, earlier, manufacturing or selling substandard or harmful cosmetics could lead to imprisonment of one year.
“Now (it’s only) fine, just a fine. So let us understand what this means in real life: a company manufactures toxic skin products. Women suffer burns, children develop infections, and the liver, kidney, and brain are affected by the products. Lives are permanently scarred, and what happens to the offender? He pays a penalty,” he said.
Wilson alleged that the government has diluted provisions in other laws, such as the Food Safety Standards Act, the Electricity Act 2003 and the Real Estate Act.
Under the Cattle Trespass Act 1871, he said damage to farmers’ crops caused by stray cattle is now reduced to a fine-only offence, leaving farmers with a little real remedy.
He said the bill should not be passed in haste, but rather be referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee for comprehensive review.
“Any reform must strengthen, not dilute, the principles of justice, accountability and public safety,” Wilson concluded.
Congress member ShaktiSinh Gohil termed it as Jan ‘Vishwasghat” bill, saying members were not given adequate time to go through the 340-page-long bill reforming 79 laws.
The business of legislation is a very serious one, he said, referring to the rules of procedure and conduct of business in the Upper House.
Gohil pointed out that the 340-page-long bill was not available on the Rajya Sabha portal till the morning of Thursday, and the Supplementary Business listed the bill to amend 79 laws for discussion in the Upper House.
“I am calling it Vishwasghaat because it is our right as members to read it before speaking on the Bill. If there are 79 amendments to the laws … The members’ rights must be protected, and the government must not bring legislation in haste. I also request the government not to act in haste on the legislative business,” the Congress member said.
On the bill, Gohil said there are many flaws.
The Congress leader said that it is ready to support decriminalise certain provisions under some old legislation passed by the British government.
However, Gohil said there are certain amendments in some laws that will “adversely affect” people and cited several provisions.
Through the Jan Vishwas Bill, Gohil said the provisions for the sale of spurious products under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act have been diluted to a Rs 1 lakh penalty instead of a jail term.
“The Drugs and Cosmetics Act is important for public health. Young sister Renuka Chowdhury, who is sitting in front of me and if she uses any cosmetics and that product is fake or spurious, and her skin is damaged and has an adverse effect on health, there was a provision to send (the manufacturers) to jail,” Gohil said in a lighter vein.
Now with this amendment, the Congress leader said the government has made a provision of a Rs 1 lakh penalty for manufacturers of fake and spurious cosmetic products and removed jail term.
Ashok Kumar Mittal of AAP said the bill would weaken the judicial system and promote corrupt practices. He said the bill should have decriminalised small offences under the GST law as well, which is hurting traders. PTI RSN MJH DRR
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.