Dear All, This is to inform you that WAYS2SAVE CONSULTANCY PVT LTD No.17/4 C, 2nd Floor, Maruthi Chambers, Rupena Agrahara, Silk Board, Hosur Road, Bangalore - 560068. Is a biggest fraid and scam company running by WAYS2SAVE Consuktancy bloody frauds I had taken paid money to Vicky Malhotra or Irfan Ibrahim Shivani for UK EHL Outbound Process. (Energy Help Line). I paid 1, 60, 000/- INR in his account and 80, 000/- INR he has taken cash amount from me. I would like to share my experience with Ways2save Consultancy. I deal with them in 2 process.For details see below. UK Energy Help Line Outbound project I had taken this process from Ways2Save 18th May 2015 and as he said first send us the travelling expenses and then after verification you can deposit the remaining amount. They told me that your Process is confirmed and documentation work is done, so by 1st week of June your center will be live. I got the confirmation by their end, I hired new employees and change my center for new project. On 12 June, 2015, my staff and center was ready. I was waiting for revert from Ways2Save Consultancy. Suddenly, I got a call from Abraham Lincoln Who is a Director In Ways2save Consultancy Bangalore, he told me that it will take 2 weeks more as all the other center are lined up and sign up will be held according to that. I waited but nothing happened, he again gave me another date for verification. Whole June passed out but still nothing happened. This time the excuse was that the company in Mumbai Thane was expecting the USA E-Commerce Inbound project trainers so that's why your verification is getting delayed. Abraham Lincoln will be travelling to Mumbai for training discussion. I had no more tolerance power left, I called them. Vicky Malhotra or Irfan Ibrahim Shivani both are are identities he picked the phone and told me that be ready for verification in Chandigarh center. After verification Abraham Lincoln Wife Priya will come and she will be give training for 15 days and that would be paid training. So be calm and wait for your turn. As I had no other way I waited for his call. Finally, on 8th July they went for verification with Wasim Shaikh & Raheel Kahn told me that the process verification is done. On 9th July Irfan/Vicky said that now you can contact Abraham Lincoln and he will inform you other things. So on 10th July i tried to call Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani on his numbers +91-[protected] & +91-[protected] but both the number were switched off and till date his numbers are not working. He has taken amount from us and he has transferred Abraham Lincoln share to his account and now Abraham Lincoln is the only one who have told Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani to switched off you cell phones. We also tried to call Abraham Lincoln But he said i am not in touch with vicky/irfan and nor i have taken any amount from him so i really dont understand when you have given authority to vicky/irfan to outsourced your project in market and through vicky/irfan you have taken amount in your account then why you are acting so smart. Same happens with other centers as well in Bangalore, Mumbai, Thane and many other places.I started collecting information about Ways2save Consultancy, Abraham Lincoln & Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Shivani. With the help of my friends, business associates and internet. I came to know that they are big frauds and all the business development managers are poppets of Abraham Lincoln. Ways2save Consultancy history Ways2save Consultancy is started by Abraham Lincoln and Helene Kenny CFO & Paul Green CEO matter of fact (Paul Green & Helene Kenny) is not aware that what Abraham Lincoln is doing scam business in market. Later Abraham Lincoln founds that outsourcing industry is booming up and decided to enter BPO outsourcing industry and lets make other fool and collect the money from them. He started outsourcing on Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani name since last 4 years they both are master mind players vicky/irfan is collecting money from centers in his personal account and later on he will transfer the funds to Abraham Lincoln account. Since last 4 years and still making fool of innocent people. About Abraham Lincoln he is a married and his wife name is Priya. She is also working in the same company as a trainer. He thinks himself a business tycoon and had a fact that no body will take him off. But in real he is a bloody fraud and a big fool who thinks that he can fool everyone. The most interesting thing about this guy is that he shows that he is a very rich & busy man but in actual he had nothing to do. He doesn’t want to give share to his partners. Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani also told us that Abraham Lincoln is also having other affair with one lady from Manipur and wherever he will go he will carry her with him. Abraham Lincoln is also like to enjoy paid sex in every city. I don’t know this guy manages all these kind of stuff. In real he is a cheater, bloody son of a , who targets innocent people and take pleasure of their money. About Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani he is married to christian lady Love called Sonia and they are also having 1 year old son. Since long vicky/irfan as doing scam so sonia was also not happy with these activities and they were about to divorce but since last year they are staying together at bangalore kammanahalli area. Sonia father is running one shop called Biryani Hotel in that area. Since vicky has cheated many people in market and there are so many complains launched against him. There are 2 FIR launched against Vicky/Irfan in Jaipur Mansarovar Thana Rajasthan.He also cheated 2 centers in Mumbai One is in Thane and second one is in Vashi both centers have paid huge upfront ho Abraham Lincoln and vicky/irfan since last 8 months these centers are keep waiting for project but nothing has started yet. They are also planning to file complain against them. About Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani: he one of the Outsourcer’s of Ways2save Consultancy (in short rand hand of Abraham Lincoln).He is living with his family in Bangalore. His father is not living with him he is staying alone with his sister and mother is no more. He is a perfect copy of Abraham Lincoln. He thinks that he can con anyone because he is a bully. He shows himself very innocent and tell everyone that his family is very poor and innocent in bangalore. But in real, he is a small con like his height. He don’t know that every dog has his day. Abraham Lincoln is very fond of drinking and paid sex. He says, every ### in Bangalore knows his name. He had fear from wayer that’s why he baths once in a month. His mentality is as small as his height and less like his hairs. This is a short description about Way2save Consultancy Bangalore, Abraham Lincoln & Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani. There is lot more to share. Even you can see the posting of comments by the centers who are victim of Vicky/Irfan & Abraham Lincoln. Then you believe me. I had attached their documents as well, be aware and keeping posting and make these kind of people to face the reality of life. Thanks!!! other victims of VM Infotech running by Vicky Malhotra/Irfan Ibrahim Shivani. Guys Irfan Ibrahim Shivani and Vicky Malhotra are same identity. He is carrying both identity in his pocket and as per Indian Penal Code if any of the Indian Citizen is carrying two identities with different name then its a punishable offence. I am also attaching few documents as well as vicky/irfan & Abraham Lincoln pics. Black dog guy would be Abraham Lincoln and other cheater would be Irfan/Vicky... Please share your experience with us so no one will get cheat... Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)