Complaint against HEALTHMUG Online pharmacy New Delhi 1. Again as evident, you reply is nothing but only to avoid your legal liability towards non delivery of medicine which you falsely claim to have delivered. We were wrong when we thought, once if you realise the medicines were not delivered, you would refund back our amount. But instead you started all the fake excuses one by one in each and every of your reply. 2. It makes no difference, whether the concerned courier people are currently associated with you or not. You and your courier partner are both under legal obligation to provide the needed information as per the demand of the law in a case. Denial to furnished information on any excuse simply amounts to violation of law, non cooperation in a case, which ultimately means to protect culprits through fake excuses, which no court will accept. 3. You have even denied when asked, the delivery was made at first attempt or 2nd attempt or third attempt. This you could easily say going through your own record as we have your own email categorically mentioning, the failure of first attempt. 4. This is another evidence that you are lying at each and every step. 5. We have made the payment full in advance to you and therefore the case would be filed against you only and we have nothing to do with your courier partner as it is your liability to collect all info from them as required by law. 6. You have failed to provide any evidence which could prove you have delivered the concerned medicine to us. You have a tempted so far only fake excuses to protect you and your courier people by hiding all the relevant information because you new very well, the medicines were never delivered. 7 so it is evident that communication to you would be nothing but waste of our valuable time as per the fake and manipulated replies you have been sending so far. Being constraint, without wasting anymore our valuable time, we are forwarding the matter to the consumer court for heavy compensation, with the strict demand to terminate your pharmacy licence at least for the next 10 years for all the violation of laws with the intention to cheat people as already elaborated previously, entirely at your risk, cost and consequences as sanctioned under the consumer protection act 1986, in DCDRF, Mumbai; in the justification of the consumer where the cause of action head risen. RK Agarwal