SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Athletics-Jamaican sprinter Bromfield speaks out about online abuse
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2024-08-24
URL: https://theprint.in/sport/athletics-jamaican-sprinter-bromfield-speaks-out-about-online-abuse/2236373/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Lori Ewing
MANCHESTER, England (Reuters) – Jamaican sprinter Junelle Bromfield has spoken out about the abuse she suffered during the recent Paris Games over her relationship with newly crowned Olympic 100 metres champion Noah Lyles.
The 26-year-old world and Olympic medallist has been harassed on social media by Jamaicans who called her a “sell-out” because she dates the American sprinter, even posting death threats.
“I honestly thought we were past colorism in Jamaica especially as a nation that is filled with Black people,” Bromfield said in a lengthy Instagram post on Friday.
Show Full Article
“I have been getting cyber bullied for weeks and when it gets talked about I’m a liar,” she added, in the post that included several screen shots of the abusive comments.
“I could go off ranting but I’m just here to tell all the girls/women on my profile that you’re beautiful no matter your shade, shape or size, and for the little Black girls don’t wait on anybody to tell you that your beautiful to believe it.”
Bromfield, who has dated Lyles since 2022, failed to progress beyond the semi-finals of the women’s 400m in Paris. She was a part of Jamaica’s 4x400m relay team that won silver at the 2022 world championships and bronze at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
Lyles has spoken out in Bromfield’s defence, saying in an Instagram post last week that even more impressive than her athletic accomplishments has been “how she’s dealt with the pure disrespect and hatred towards her from her own country.
“This woman has been attacked by people who have never met her, heard her name before, never seen her smile, or heard what she believes in,” he wrote.
Several Olympians replied to Bromfield’s post in support on Friday.
“Thank you for using your platform to share this,” wrote Olympic 200m champion Gabby Thomas. “WE know you are one of the most beautiful ladies on the track, but what’s even more important is how much you shine as a person and how you light up a room.”
Olympic women’s long jump gold medallist Tara Davis-Woodhall added: “THEY WISH THEY COULD BE YOU.”
(Reporting by Lori Ewing, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibilty for its content.