To whomsoever it may concern I am a current user of the data card(MDN number [protected]) which I have bought from your CMH road outlet in the name of my roomate Soma Jaldhari. The sale was made to me by Rajesh([protected]). I had submitted all the relevant documents (lease agreement, PAN card details) of Soma my roomate on whose name I took the connection. Due to constant shifting I could not take the data crad in my own name. Last week there was a verification done at the residence. Two days later on 17th Oct, the connection was disconnected.This came to my notice on 22nd when I was needing to use the internet urgently. On trying to call the executive, to confirm regarding the problem I got no response. Because it is a matter of grave inconvenience for me, I had to come to the outlet again. On reaching here the executive disappeared & the rest of the front desk just said that the application has been stated as negative. On lot of insistence to understand the problem , I was told that the connection cannot be restarted before thursday/friday. Also I am now being informed that the nature of accomodation(bachelor) is a reason for the rejection & an additional 1500/- needs to be deposited. I feel cheated as a customer as i have not been informed about the same at the time of the purchase and there is additional inconvenience caused due to disocnnection without intimation. Oct 2,2010 : Previous complaint I was a user of Reliance data card(CDMA data modem MG880) from November 2007(MDN no [protected]/ SKU Code CDZT05Z1/RSN:RZTCDC[protected]/MSN:MZT[protected]) in Mumbai under the name of Akash Kedia (119/4, Juhu Tarang Apartments, Andheri (W)) as a post paid connectopm. This connection wasnt used by me from May 2009.There was a payment of 1300 odd Rs that was due on the number that was cleared in May 2009.This was done to reactivate the number. I went to your outlet in Sion (Circle) to make the payment.On making the payment I was told that the number had been allocated to someone else as a pre-paid number. On enquiry I was told that I could get another number activated on the data card. Since I wasnt in dire need so I didnt get it activated , but made the payment all the same (May2009). October 2010 I am a resident of Bangalore now and have visited the CMH road Web world to get a new number for the data card.But the repeated messages state that the card is blocked. Plus the database doesnt reflect the previous history o[censored]sage as a post paid connection. Complaint I want to know if the device I have is useless simply because the datbase h been mainteained or its been tampered with to reallocate the number.