Second time recieving mail from people with false profiles in Thinder & Facebook, making scam asking money sending false parcels Adrian Angus Good morning Monica. I was involved in an car accident that had me admitted in the intensive unit of the hospital. That's why I have not being able to write to you all these while but I'm better now. I am glad to hear from you, ever since my wife's sudden death I was so broken and I felt that the world had fallen into pieces for a very long time after she passed away I decided to keep my life to myself and bury myself with work. I engaged in very little socializing and definitely I could not date anyone. I was not ready for it all. It took me a long time for me to get through the dark days after she passed away getting over something like that was obviously difficult for me, I really felt as if my heart had been pierced but I guess eventually I healed from it all. After a long time of keeping to myself most of the times I realized that I was depriving myself of happiness. I then allowed myself to emerge back into the world and this is my first attempt to date again through online. I am ready to meet someone whom I will love and cherish for the rest of my life. A really close friend of mine is the one who introduced me to the site where I met you. I have not been on the site for long. I am hoping to meet a woman who is decent and who is looking for a serious relationship. I am not looking for someone who just wants to have fun only. I want a real woman who can be my life partner and I wish to shower her with love, respect and pampering. I just want her to be the happiest woman alive and I want us to share the best memories so that when her time comes, God forbid, she will leave me with the best memories that I will cherish until my time comes and I will join her. I am saying all these things because I used to see my mother she was deeply in love with my father and when he passed away in 1996 she still cherishes every single moment that she spent with my father and she is waiting patiently for the time that she will join him. Monica, when I look at you I see you as a mature lady who is unique and good-looking and I also think you are the type of woman who is fun to be around. Therefore I think that if you do not mind we can begin as friends and we will see where our friendship will lead us. I am longing for a woman who is caring, honest, kind-hearted and loving and hopefully whom I can spend the rest of my life with if all goes well. I am not really sure as to what you are looking for in a man or in a relationship that will eventually lead to a marriage that will last forever. I think that maybe we should give each other a chance and see if we can make things work. Even though I am always busy with work I will always try to devote sometime to get to know you better. Please do let me know what you think and you can always write to me anytime. Yours sincerely Adrian Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)