SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: TN poll battle heats up; Stalin, Vijay file nominations
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-30
URL: https://theprint.in/india/tn-poll-battle-heats-up-stalin-vijay-file-nominations/2892570/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chennai, Mar 30 (PTI) Chief Minister M K Stalin and TVK chief Vijay filed their nominations on Monday for the April 23 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, marking a charged beginning to the electoral battle as campaigning gathered fierce momentum ahead of the high-stakes political showdown in the state.
Seeking a fourth consecutive mandate from Kolathur, Stalin struck a confident note after filing his papers, projecting an emphatic victory and continuity of governance. The DMK chief hosted a meeting of leaders in his Secular Progressive Alliance at party headquarters Anna Arivalayam.
DMK sources said the chief minister has warned district secretaries that if candidates of the alliance parties did not win polls, they may be eased out of their posts. Also, it has been conveyed to stakeholders that the election war room functioning from DMK headquarters may be approached in case of any issues and prompt action will be taken.
Show Full Article
Addressing a poll rally at Kadayanallur, AIADMK chief Palaniswami, the leader of opposition, made a fresh promise of providing “double boiled quality rice” at PDS shops similar to the “good quality rice sold in private shops.” The AIADMK chief said: “This is for sure; quality rice will be supplied in ration shops notwithstanding the expenditure.” He slammed the ruling DMK for “sheltering” those expelled from his party and said it would gain nothing from them in the ensuing Assembly polls.
Vijay, who entered the fray from the working-class stronghold of Perambur, attacked the DMK over the law and order situation and “rising unemployment.” The actor-politician also urged voters to give his party a decisive opportunity.
Across Tamil Nadu, the first day of nominations on Monday witnessed a blend of political theatre and grassroots symbolism, with candidates adopting unconventional methods—from submitting deposits in coins to arriving at returning officers’ offices in bullock carts.
Adding to the intensifying contest, Deputy Chief Minister Udhayanidhi Stalin kick-started his campaign from Kanchipuram, asserting that the election is a battle to drive out AIADMK chief Palaniswami and prevent Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah from gaining a toe-hold in the state.
Launching his campaign here in the native town of DMK founder leader CN Annadurai (1909-1969), Udhayanidhi, addressing a massive rally, recalled his father and party chief MK Stalin’s statement that the ensuing poll was a fight between TN and Delhi and asserted that the BJP must not be allowed.
Alleging that the AIADMK chief Palaniswami is PM Modi’s “slave”, Udhayanidhi claimed that the Leader of Opposition’s “ideological mentors are PM Modi and Amit Shah”.
“Hence, the Assembly election is all about driving out AIADMK chief Palaniswami, Can we allow PM Modi, Amit Shah in Tamil Nadu?” he asked, adding people would not allow it.
Further, he said: “In this election, we must prove that Tamil Nadu is always out of Delhi’s control. Tamil Nadu must completely sideline BJP, which is betraying the state; this must be done.” He listed out the DMK regime’s welfare schemes, including CM’s Breakfast Scheme and fare-free bus travel scheme for women.
Senior DMK leader Kanimozhi slammed what she described as attempts to dub welfare schemes as “freebies” and asserted that initiatives like fare-free bus travel for women were “social investment, aimed at securing social justice”.
Quoting economists, she said when money is put “in the hands of people”, it acts as a stimulus, helps increase their buying power and supports economic growth.
Addressing a rally after filing his papers, actor-politician Vijay appealed to the people to give an opportunity to his party TVK and vote for the party’s whistle symbol on April 23.
Addressing an election meeting at Vandavasi, Udhayanidhi said that with 11.19 per cent growth, the state is in the first place.
“We in Tamil Nadu have achieved this. But is the Union government supporting us? Is the Union government giving us the funds we request? Is the Union government giving us any good scheme? Nothing. They are snatching away state’s rights, including educational rights. They brought the New Education Policy and though all states in India accepted it Tamil Nadu did not.” He said that if this policy was allowed in Tamil Nadu, it will end up as an attempt to impose Hindi/Sanskrit on the people of Tamil Nadu through backdoor. The Rs 2,500 crore education fund that should come to TN has not come to this day.
TVK leader Aadhav Arjuna, meanwhile, filed his nomination from Villivakkam Assembly constituency, also in north Chennai like Perambur.
Considered ‘No 2’ in the party, Arjuna is the son-in-law of lottery king Santiago Martin. Like Vijay, this is the debut Assembly polls for Arjuna, TVK’s general secretary-election campaign management, who was formerly with the VCK.
Tamil Nadu has 234 Assembly constituencies. PTI JR JSP VGN PYK VGN ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.