SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: ‘Jai Mata Di’ chants reverberate along rain-drenched route as pilgrims throng Vaishno Devi on first of Navratri
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-19
URL: https://theprint.in/india/jai-mata-di-chants-reverberate-along-rain-drenched-route-as-pilgrims-throng-vaishno-devi-on-first-of-navratri/2884033/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Jammu, March 19 (PTI) Braving the rain and bitter chill with fervent chants of “Jai Mata Di”, thousands of devotees trekked along the serpentine path to the cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi atop the Trikuta hills on the first day of Navratri, to pay obeisance to the deity.
The fresh floral decoration filling the air with fragrance, and multi-coloured lights adding to the visual spectacle, the cave shrine in Jammu and Kashmir’s Reasi district witnessed a rush of pilgrims on Wednesday, with around 15,000 devotees seeking the blessings of Mata Vaishno Devi on the first day of Chaitra Navratri.
Despite heavy rainfall along the route, hundreds of devotees thronged the pilgrimage base camp in Katra before beginning their ascent to the hilltop shrine. “Over 15,000 devotees have paid obeisance at the cave shrine and a large number of them are on their way,” officials said.
Show Full Article
They said the yatra is proceeding smoothly amid multi-layered security arrangements.
Groups of pilgrims, with chants of “Jai Mata Di” on their lips, and devotional music playing on loudspeakers, marched along the yatra route towards the shrine for Mata’s darshan.
Vibrant lights and elaborate decorations at the hilltop Bhawan and the base camp have added to the spiritual fervour and gaiety of Katra town. The nine-day festival got off to a grand start, with officials expecting a daily footfall of more than 20,000 to 30,000 pilgrims.
Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha paid obeisance at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine on the auspicious occasion and prayed for peace, prosperity, happiness and well-being of all, the L-G’s office said on X.
A pilgrim from Rajasthan, 90-year-old R K Pawar, said, “I am happy to pay obeisance at the feet of Mata Rani, my sacred practice for the past seven decades. There is a huge rush at the cave shrine on the occasion of Chaitra Navratri.” He said rains cannot deter devotees from paying obeisance to the Mata. “Those who come here for the fulfilment of their wishes never go back empty-handed.” Another pilgrim, Mithlesh Kumar from Uttar Pradesh, said the beauty of Mata’s abode is like the paradise that none wish to abandon. “I have paid obeisance at the lotus feet of Mata. I do not have words to describe the beauty of the Bhawan. Such is the divinity that one wishes to stay here forever.” Sushma Tiwari from Bihar, patiently waiting at the serpentine queue outside the Bhawan, said the arrangements are excellent, with beautiful decorations and lights captivating everyone. “The atmosphere here is divine, as if part of Devlok (realm of Gods).” The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, which manages the yatra, has set up registration counters at the Katra railway station to ease the process for pilgrims in view of the expected influx during Navratri. “All arrangements for smooth yatra have been ensured,” the board said.
A comprehensive, multi-layer security arrangement has been implemented involving Central Reserve Police Force, Jammu and Kashmir Police, and Army personnel, with round-the-clock CCTV surveillance via an Integrated Command and Control Centre, they said.
“Police, CRPF and shrine board security personnel have been deployed along the track from Katra to the Bhawan. Elaborate security arrangements have been made following a comprehensive review,” police officials said.
In response to the heavy rush, crowd management systems integrated with CCTV and RFID surveillance have been put in place.
Extensive facilities including pony services for the elderly and disabled, sanitation, water, and food services have been prepared for the expected influx of pilgrims, the shrine board said.
The shrine has been adorned with indigenous and exotic flowers, and large pandals have been set up in the Bhawan area for the auspicious occasion, they added.
Meanwhile, in Jammu, long queues were seen at the Mata Kali temple, popularly known as Bawe Wali Mata, located at Bahu Fort. Hundreds of devotees lined up since before dawn to pay obeisance.
Deputy Chief Minister Surinder Kumar Choudhary paid obeisance at the temple and greeted people on Navratri. “I extend my greetings to the people on the occasion of Navratri. I wish everyone peace, prosperity and happiness,” he said. PTI AB AB ARB ARB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.