I booked a single bed room apartment in this project and i am regretting & shall perhaps regret for the rest of my life. This company is outrightly cheating people by unethically taking away their hard earned money. The promises made and attractions displayed at the time/before of booking vanishes the moment you fall into their honey trap (Not expected from a tata group of company). I have been outrightly cheated. The apartment provided to me is a little better than a servant's out house. Not worth buying. The total carpet area of the apartment is 460 sq. Ft and the cost is more than 32 lakhs (Including taxes) which amounts to roughly about rs.6, 957/- per sqft.in bhubaneswar one can buy a much better property at a price at around rs.3, 500/- per sq. Ft.in a much better locality, the total cost of which may come to around rs.16, 10, 000/- or may be less than that. Moreover, it is important to note that this is not a free hold property, it is twice subleased property and with the terms and conditions laid down by the promoter, you'll living in this property like a tenant but not the owner, though you will be paying much more than the real value of the property. I may say it is unethical, the way tatas are developing this property! Even after i have made full payment as per their demand, they are neither executing the lease deed nor handing over possession of the property. Even they are not issuing acknowledgement for the entire payment received by them. Moreover, they are playing by showing the amounts they receive from buyers under conspicuous heads which do not relate to the cost of the apartment. On enquiring, one doesn't get any response from them. However, if occasionally, you get a response, it comes with a disclaimer citing "the opinion expressed in this response is of the person sending it and not of the company" which is ridiculous! Not worth buying a property from this rotten project. Please do not go by just the name of ' tata'. It is not worth it. I am in a mess and therefore i request anyone who is being inclined to acquire A property can go to any other promoter but tatas at bhubaneswar. B. S. Mishra Cus. I. D.-[protected] (Of tata arana project) Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)