SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Chinese rare earths investor fails to win seat on Australia’s Northern Minerals board
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2024-06-06
URL: https://theprint.in/tech/chinese-rare-earths-investor-fails-to-win-seat-on-australias-northern-minerals-board/2119153/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By Scott Murdoch and Kirsty Needham
SYDNEY (Reuters) -A Chinese mining investor has failed in a bid to join the board of Australian rare earths mining company Northern Minerals, days after Australia’s Treasurer ordered the investor’s private company to sell some of its shares.
Treasurer Jim Chalmers this week ordered several China-linked investors to dispose of Northern Mineral shares amounting to 10.4% of its issued share capital on national interest grounds.
Yuxiao Fund had 60 days to dispose of 80 million Northern Minerals shares bought in September. The company was ordered not to lift its stake in February 2023.
Show Full Article
The fund had sought Foreign Investment Review Board approval to raise its ownership to 19.9% in 2022, from 9.81% of Northern Minerals, but was declined last year.
Northern Minerals has said the ultimate controller of Yuxiao Fund is Chinese national Wu Tao. Wu’s nomination to join the Northern Minerals board was one of four that failed on Thursday, the company announced at its annual meeting.
Wu Tao has mining interests in Mozambique and China where his private company has developed and operated rare earth minerals businesses, Northern Minerals has said.
Two other board candidates proposed by entities and individuals linked to Yuxiao Fund and named in the Treasurer’s disposal order on Monday also failed at the meeting.
The Australian government order to several China-linked investors to dispose of shares was not connected with the rare earths miner’s revelation this week of a data leak by cyberhackers, its chairman said at the meeting.
Northern Minerals said on Tuesday some of its corporate, operational and financial data had been released on the dark web following a cyberattack in March.
Executive Chairman Adam Handley told the company’s shareholder meeting in Perth on Thursday the attack and the divestiture order were not linked.
“As is typical with cyber security attacks on corporations like Northern Minerals, the hackers demanded a ransom from us. Northern Minerals, out of principle, refused to engage with the hackers on a ransom,” he said.
“The fact we disclosed the cyber security breach a day after the Treasurer’s divestiture order was announced is a coincidence. There are no suggestions, contrary to some media speculation, that the two events are linked in any way.”
(Reporting by Scott Murdoch and Kirsty Needham; Editing by Sonali Paul and Christopher Cushing)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibilty for its content.