Dear all, I am writing this complaint against a travel company called naswiz holidays pvt ltd. Here is a story for you all. Have you ever heard of 4 holidays x 4 nights=16 nights in 3 star hotels for 9700 inr?? Ans - :it is impossible, let me explain how they make you all fool. Validity of package is 15 months from the date of purchase, in which forget 7 months which are peak season for different different cities. You are left with 7 months, you need to inform them at least 21 days before you plan your holiday and after your 1st holiday you are required to wait for 45 day. So in 7 months time 1. 5 months required in availing each holiday. So 6 months gone. Even if my calculations are wrong do you guys really think you guys can have 4 holidays in 6 months. Question 2 - :how was my experiance about my 1st booking given to them. I had submitted the form 45 days before i had plan a holiday, one condition i forgot 2 fulfill they need 2 dates from you say with a difference of 4 days in between. So my corrected form reached them 40 days before i planned. 10 days gone no call from them, finally i took decision to call them, as per them season in goa is march just imagine do you guys really thinks one should visit goa in march. . . Finally i got a call on 11th day saying hotel is available on my preferred date. . . I was happy they asked me to see the hotels, Guys i am in real shock, hotel which is 2 hours from city / airport in the jungle. . . I cant even imagine to stay there with my lil child and husband. . It was so scary. Just have a look and read reviews about the hotels dudhsagar spa resort. . . Here are few - : Filth and mould” “do not stay here - dirty, mouldy, disgusting. ” “not the best holiday option” “horrible” “scarry” “poor facility - service - food, no worth the price” “no hospitality mind set at all. ” “nothing worth remembering - money hounds!” “great if no expectations” “not good choice in goa” Finally i am not sure if they are gonna offer me something better now but as if now i had convinced my self that they trapped me, i become fool. I am gonna book a good and nice hotel on my own and make my holiday memorable for me and my family Think 1000 times before offering such schemes to your friends and family as money is always hard earned and no business is easy. I really wanna apologise my friends whom i forced to put money in such scheme, i hope you all will forgive us. . Naswiz is all about fooling people. Hopefully soon my team of 10 - 15 people will file a case against them in consumer court i please feel free if you want to join us. Regards Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (4)