I am Sagar Kaushik, a Haryana resident who had just got an offer to join a prestigious IT company in Bengaluru. I booked a hotel online(Booking ID - J7ZJ8081) through the OYO app on 5th September 2022 for the duration of 8 September to 27 September 2022. I arrived on the 8th morning and my checkin time was 12 PM in Capital O 78555 Royal Keys, Bengaluru. One person whose phone number is [protected] started calling me and misrepresented himself as the hotel manager. He had all the details of my stay as well as my pending payment, location, name and address. His number is still active and i want his number to be tracked and his UPI account shall be traced back and should be freezed in order to avoid the further fraud. He asked me to pay the remaining amount which was 14, 472 Rs. online so as to avoid last-minute hassles. Since he had his DP as OYO and had his truecaller name as OYO Hotels and all my details, I believed him and paid 13, 972 Rs. (after discount) via GPAY(UPI ID - [protected]@okaxis) on 8th september (today at 10:37 AM). I had registered a cyber crime report on next day itself with CIR ID - CIR014357. It has been 3 weeks but police has not initiated any action/investigation on the case. Kindly HELP me. 🙏 Later, when I reached hotel, I was told that it is a fraud number misrepresenting itself as OYO. I was left shocked that how can my data be accessible to any fraud person outside of the company. I am attaching all the screenshots of the conversation as well as the transaction ID of the payment fraud. I have tried connecting with everyone but it seems that nothing is working out. You are my last HOPE. I am distressed as i am new here and have no connections whatsoever, don't know anyone. In this hard time, i am writing this email for that one support from you. I shall be highly obliged to you, whosoever is seeing this mail and comes out for my help. Please ask the police to take immediate action and get back my hard earned money. I am suffering from depression and mental health issues due to this because no one here is listening or understanding my situation that I'm currently going through due to this fraud. Please please please help me Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)