SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Tortured and forced into ‘cyber slavery’, 60 Indians rescued from Myanmar; five agents held
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2025-04-11
URL: https://theprint.in/india/tortured-and-forced-into-cyber-slavery-60-indians-rescued-from-myanmar-five-agents-held/2586738/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mumbai, Apr 11 (PTI) The cyber wing of Maharashtra Police has rescued more than 60 Indian nationals who were tortured and forced into cyber slavery in Myanmar, and arrested five agents, including a foreign national, a senior official said here on Friday.
The victims in the case were promised high-paying jobs abroad, but were threatened and physically tortured to commit cyber frauds there, he said.
This is perhaps the biggest action taken by the Maharashtra Cyber in a cyber slavery case with the help of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), he said.
Show Full Article
Cyber slavery is an emerging form of exploitation that begins with online deception and evolves into physical human trafficking.
Maharashtra Cyber has registered three First Information Reports (FIRs) in this connection, he said.
The racketeers contacted the victims through social media platforms and lured them with high-paying jobs in Thailand and other East Asian countries, he said.
The agents arranged passports and flight tickets for the victims and sent them to Thailand on tourist visas. After landing in the country, they were sent to the Myanmar border, where they were made to cross a river in small boats.
On entering Myanmar, the victims were taken to guarded compounds controlled by armed rebel groups, where they were forced to commit cyber frauds ranging from ‘digital arrest’ scams to fake investment schemes on an industrial scale.
Maharashtra Cyber, along with other agencies, rescued the victims, the official said, without giving details as to whether the operation was carried out inside Myanmar.
Additional Director General of Police (Maharashtra Cyber) Yashasvi Yadav said, “The accused include facilitators who helped the victims to take them to Myanmar.” “During the investigation of the case, four accused were arrested by the Goa Police, while we arrested the main accused from Mumbai, who was an Indian conduit,” he said, adding that of the 60 victims, some could be named as accused if they were found to have played a role in it.
In order to force the victims into cyber frauds, the accused persons used to torture them. In some cases, they would even pull out the nails of the victims. The passports of the victims were seized, and they were subjected to torture and threats, he said.
After their rescue, the victims threw light on the network of agents and fraudulent call centre companies which lured job aspirants from India. Some of these companies operated under the garb of employment agencies, he said.
Manish Grey alias Maddy, Taisan alias Aaditya Ravi Chandran, Rupnarayan Ramdhar Gupta, Jensi Rani D and Chinese-Kazakhstani national Talaniti Nulaxi were arrested for allegedly acting as recruitment agents.
Manish Grey alias Maddy is a professional actor who has appeared in web series and television shows, the official said.
Along with others, Grey allegedly recruited unsuspecting individuals and facilitated their trafficking to Myanmar, he added.
Talaniti Nulaxi was allegedly planning to set up a unit in India to commit cybercrimes, he said, adding that further probe was on.
Sharing his experience, one of the victims, Satish, said that he was offered a job as a restaurant manager in Thailand.
“After reaching Thailand, the agent took us to the Myanmar border, and we were not aware that he had sold us for 5,000 dollars per person,” he said.
“They seized our passports on day one. They used to beat us and force us into committing cyber frauds, including extortion, digital arrests and cheating,” he said.
“In case anybody refused to work, the accused persons would terrorise us with a gunman, who was deputed at the workplace, and torture us,” he said, adding some of them were even threatened with organ removal.
The area where these people were taken, known as Miawadi, is in the control of rebels, and people there carry with them AK-47 rifles and automatic weapons, he said.
Another victim, Monukumar Sharma, a resident of Naigaon in Palghar district told PTI that the racketeers used to torture the workers by using different means.
“In case a worker refused to work or reacted sharply, he would be beaten up,” he said.
“We were fixed a salary of 25,000 Thai Bahts, but they found some reason or the other to deduct our salary. If someone was found sitting with crossed legs, the accused person would cut half the salary of that person,” Sharma said. PTI DC KRK NP
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.