SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Six held for cheating people through insurance, ponzi schemes
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2023-04-25
URL: https://theprint.in/india/six-held-for-cheating-people-through-insurance-ponzi-schemes/1538750/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 25 (PTI) Six men, including a postman, were arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of ensuring high returns on investments and getting back their money stuck in lapsed insurance policies, police said on Tuesday.
The gang was operating from Begusarai in Bihar and a financial analysis shows that transactions of over Rs 40 crore were done through 35 bank accounts and more than 100 people have been duped, a senior police officer said. Investigation was initiated following a complaint from a man that some unknown people cheated him of Rs 2.8 crore in the last seven to eight years on the promise of getting back his money stuck in an insurance policy, police said.
Later, police found that two more people had been cheated of Rs 1 crore by the gang, the officer said and added that the it was operating since 2018.
Show Full Article
They also used to promise high returns on investments and collect initial amounts from people, the officer said Birender Kumar Das (33), Raushan Kumar (38), Dinesh Kumar (44), Bablu Malakar (51), Pawan Kumar (33) and Mithilesh Kumar (26), all residents of Begusarai, have been arrested, police said. Das was employed with the postal department in the Bihar town.
Through technical analysis, the accused were found to be operating from Begusarai, Deputy Commissioner of Police ( Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations) Prashant Gautam said.
On January 10, four people were arrested, while on February 27, Pawan Kumar, who used to provide bank accounts to the main accused in the case Shyam Sundar, was apprehended, he said.
Later, Mithilesh Kumar was arrested from Kaushambi in Uttar Pradesh, Gautam said, adding that during raids in Begusarai, police found that he was running a customer service point centre for a bank.
Police said at his instance, 1,091 ATM cards, 22 instant debit cards, 56 blank passbooks were seized. He was using these ATM cards to withdraw money that had been deposited by people, they said. PTI NIT ANB ANB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.