SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Flight bookings for Halwara airport in Punjab to begin in April: Ravneet Bittu
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-29
URL: https://theprint.in/india/flight-bookings-for-halwara-airport-in-punjab-to-begin-in-april-ravneet-bittu/2891606/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chandigarh, Mar 29 (PTI) Flight bookings for Halwara airport in Punjab are set to begin in April, with the first commercial flight likely to take off between May 10 and 15, Union Minister of State for Railways Ravneet Singh Bittu said on Sunday.
Describing it as a proud moment for the state, Bittu said operations will commence with a 160-seater Airbus A320 aircraft.
“Initially, there will be two daily flights between Delhi and Halwara, one in the morning and one in the afternoon, marking a major leap in connectivity for the region,” Bittu said in a post on X.
Show Full Article
Extending his congratulations to the people of Punjab, Bittu said the long-awaited development would boost travel, trade and overall economic growth in the state.
The BJP leader from Punjab expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said, “Grateful to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji for his vision and continued commitment to strengthening infrastructure and empowering Punjab.
“I also remain committed, as Union Minister, to continuously working towards Punjab’s growth and ensuring such transformative projects reach the people,” he said.
Modi, during his visit to Jalandhar last month, virtually inaugurated the terminal building at Halwara airport in Ludhiana.
Developed at the Indian Air Force base in Halwara in the Raikot subdivision, the civil terminal is expected to significantly enhance air connectivity and boost industrial and economic growth in the region.
The operationalisation of Halwara airport’s terminal building is expected to enhance air connectivity in the region significantly, providing a boost to industrial activity, tourism, healthcare, and education, and thereby contributing to the overall socio-economic development of Punjab.
The air connectivity from Ludhiana has been one of the major demands of the city-based industrialists who either have to take flights from Delhi, Chandigarh or Amritsar. PTI SUN RHL
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.