I initiated a process for Canada immigration PR VISA with Esse india and I hade paid the visa fee to them. I had all the documents ready including WES and IELTS, Esse India had to just help me with the application process. Before initiating the process the information was shared that my IELTS score would expire in a year and they promised me that if they could not succeed they would refund my money. Now coming to the services, after a week I received a call from documentation person for the details and based on the discussion all the documents were shared within a week. No response received for one month, meanwhile I contacted the person who is in documentation and the chain goes on. This continued for six months and yet my online application was not filed inspite of being providing all the documents on time. After six months just to press the submit button, they asked me to pay more money for which I denied as they didn’t do anything during this six months.Esse india again promised me and say, don’t worry, we will refund the money 100% if you don’t get PR. I agreed and paid what they want. Next to file application for PNP programmes, I asked and researched everything and told them to file for PNP. They were not concerned at all. Next, no response for a month, I called them again and reminded that my IELTS would expire by September end, kindly do something and answer was yes don’t worry. In august, I mailed them for the refund as I figured that these people were just concerned about money, they have no liability. Most important, half of the time documentation person was not available on call during working hours. I dropped 10 emails to them, but no response. I texted and called them, but no response. 82000 is not a small amount, I am the single earner of my house and paid it for my future and these people have no humanity at all. Till date, I have not received any response and when they wanted money they called at least thrice a week. Fraud people and Fake promises and all about looting money from middle class people, I would not recommend anyone to go Esse India services. Was this information helpful? No (20) Yes (778)