SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Education ministry reviewing impact of switching NEET-UG to computer-based format
AUTHOR: Fareeha Iftikhar
DATE: 2025-09-20
URL: https://theprint.in/india/education/education-ministry-reviewing-impact-of-switching-neet-ug-to-computer-based-format/2747357/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
In line with
recommendations
by a government-appointed panel to transition exams like NEET-UG to an online format, the Ministry of Education is analysing existing digital infrastructure and reviewing the impact of computer-based testing in other entrance tests, senior ministry officials said.
The seven-member panel, led by former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K. Radhakrishnan, was formed June last following allegations of irregularities in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Undergraduate), or NEET-UG.
The medical entrance exam faced accusations of
paper leaks and cheating
, which delayed the counselling process by nearly two months and raised questions about the functioning of the National Testing Agency (NTA), responsible for conducting these exams.
Show Full Article
In its December report, the panel made recommendations to reform the NTA functioning and how entrance exams should be conducted. It recommended a gradual transition from paper-and-pencil testing (PPT) to computer-based testing (CBT), while addressing challenges—especially in reaching underserved and remote areas.
The ministry is analysing data and will submit it to the health ministry, which will take the final call. “We are analysing two sets of data—one is digital infrastructure in the country to assess readiness for such a transition, and the other is impact of switching to a computer-based format in other entrance exams like JEE,” a senior ministry official told ThePrint.
The official said that while analysing the impact, special attention will be given to ensure that students in rural and remote areas are not affected. “NEET is the largest entrance exam in the country. It caters to more than twice the number of students who appear for JEE or any other exam. Therefore, any decision will be taken with that in mind,” the official said. “We will submit the data to the health ministry, and they will take the final call.”
Also Read:
In eye of NEET storm, a look at origins of India’s testing agency NTA & past controversies
Aadhaar-based biometrics in 2026
The Radhakrishnan panel also recommended Aadhaar-based biometric verification of candidates at exam centres to prevent cases of fraud. An autonomous examination conducting body, the NTA conducted a pilot test of this recommendation this year.
This recommendation will be fully implemented in 2026. “This Aadhaar-based biometric verification will be conducted at all centres across the country starting next year. We are working on it,” the official said.
Officials at the ministry also said that another committee, constituted in June to reduce dependence of students on coaching centres by analysing gaps in formal education, has begun analysing question papers of entrance exams.
The panel is analysing the question papers of all the major entrance exams students appear in after Class 12.
“We have already held a meeting. We are analysing the difficulty levels of question papers to understand how they are set and whether they align with the grade 12 syllabus or differ from it,” the ministry official said.
(Edited by Tony Rai)
Also Read:
1,000 underperforming rural engg colleges set for upgrade, says AICTE as ‘employability gap’ identified