Dear Sir/Madam, I want to bring to your notice fraudulent practices taking place in Bharti Axa insurance company by some mischievous agents/managers. Unfortunately I happen to be one of the victims of such malpractices.Around the month of august 2021, I got a call from Mrs Anuradha Verma mobile number [protected](name-as she has told me and reportedly said to be working in Operations department of Bharti Axa in New Delhi) and Mr Ashok mobile number [protected] (as he had told me and reportedly said to be working in Malad Mumbai). Both of them reminded me about a policy- Bharti Axa Elite Advantage Plan taken by me long back(around 2014-15), for which I could only pay one initial premium of 50 thousands and with all the interest calculated on it, they told me that those 50 thousands have now turned into 138 thousands and for that I'll have to pay two more premiums of the same policy so that its liquidation can get started.Initially I hesitate to pay any such sum, but as I had a reputation of the Bhartiaxa in my mind and also those agents wanted me to pay this sum of 100 thousands via policy and they both did masterful social engineering and convinced me to pay two premium against my outdated policy so that the policy could be liquidated.They asked me to pay the sum via another policy. I couldn't foresee the trap I am falling into. I paid a sum of 100000 rupees for policy number[protected] Bharti Axa Elite Advantage Plan ). Both, Mrs Anuradha Verma mobile number [protected] and Mr Ashok mobile number [protected] then started to play their treacherous games with me as I had already invested in a policy(which I didn't want). Both later put such me in situations that I had to take four more policies in the name NOC charges, settlement charges etc.My soul knows how did I manage all these sum for the policies. Details of policies further taken me due to the pressure asserted by Bhartiaxa's fraudulent employees are as following: Policy number[protected]Bhartiaxa Elite Advantage Plan, premium paid-75000) Policy number[protected]Bhartiaxa Elite Advantage Plan, premium paid-50000) Policy number[protected]Bhartiaxa Elite Advantage Plan, premium paid-48000) Policy number[protected] HDFC LIFE SUPER INCOME PLAN, premium paid -38210) Both the fradulants had asked me not to disclose any previous policies taken by me during the verification stage and also asked to just inform me for the purpose of saving under 80C I am investing. I could sense that something is fishy in all these. But as I had already invested more than 3 lakh rupees for no reason in the hope of getting my previous dues, I had no other options but to follow their instructions and wait . As you can feel I have been financially and mentally harassed by those fradulants for months now. I have fallen into the trap of a very well structured game plan of Bhartiaxa's employees coming up with morbid policies and asking for a premium against its liquidation. I am a middle income salaried person, who already has a savings of around 2.5 lakhs via PPF, NPS and LIC Policies.Thus, I never wanted any further investment .As you can very well observe that I was fraudulently made to take a sum of more that 3 lakh as investment, which makes my total investment of around 6 lakhs, that I obviously never wanted when I merely earn around 8lakh per annum. Two months back, I got a call from Mr. Rahul Sharma( Mob No.[protected] reported working in Accounts & clarence section of Bhartiaxa in New Delhi) regarding clearance of my policies for liquidation.However, it's been 6-7 months I have been listening the same consolation that I would get my amount by 10-15 days.Since January this year, each time on enquiring, all the three persons would give me the same answer. After getting mentally and financially frustrated for months, as I see no hope of getting my hard earned money back, I beg you from the bottom of my heart to immediately set up an enquiry on all these three employees namely Mrs Anuradha Verma, Mr. Ashok Singh, Mr Rahul Sharma and others involved in such malpractices. I have gone through inexplicable mental trauma and financial loss. I request you to please find these fradulent and book a case under section 420 IPC and other sections. At the end I just request to kindly reimburse my hard earned money which I had to pay via different policies owing to the trap I had fallen into. In case I don't get money back, I'll have no other options but to harm myself, and all the responsibilities would lie with the above-mentioned fradulants and Bhartiaxa Life Insurance Ltd itself. I have sincere expectations that justice will be delivered to my case. Kindly Acknowledge the complaint Prashant Kumar Sakare Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)