SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Bridgerton fever is back in India. Greater Noida aunties are killing it
AUTHOR: Prasanna Bachchhav
DATE: 2026-02-07
URL: https://theprint.in/opinion/viral-spiral/bridgerton-fever-is-back-in-india-greater-noida-aunties-are-killing-it/2848016/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

D
earest gentle reader… enough of that, actually. Listen up, lousy doomscrollers,
Bridgerton
is back with another bland season. Yep, they’re never going to live up to season 2. But Indian girlies don’t care. All that matters is that
Bridgerton
vibes are back in season—and it’s taking over the internet this week.
Think pastels, violins, sheer gloves. Oh, and the most tired rhinestone
make-up looks
. We’re fully reheating
Euphoria
nachos in quieter colours, but don’t tell anyone that. In the viral spiral that is ‘Bridgerton but make it Indian’, logic is the first bride shipped off to India. Women are twirling in their old Diwali or sangeet looks, slapping on the
Bridgerton
music, and hitting post. Brands are rushing to capitalise on the craze—from a clothing store putting Kate in the
ugliest purple churidar
you’ve seen to Nykaa’s new make-up collection.
The first
Bridgerton
kitty party was a roaring success. In the video shared by a Greater Noida aunty, her besties came dressed in their best, well, saris. But they all put on some lovely fascinators and net gloves as they lined up to pose for Insta. “Featheringtons,” a gremlin like me wrote in the comments. In the show, the Featherington family is known for its eccentric (bad) fashion taste.
Show Full Article
But a majority of the comments celebrated the aunties. “Something about women enjoying dress up with their girl gang makes me really happy,” wrote one user.
I, for one, would like to know what this kitty’s Whistledown is saying in her WhatsApp goss group.
Also read:
The internet has moved beyond cats. Screaming sea lions are the new mascot
The Indian twist
Brands and influencers are carrying the desi
Bridgerton
trend on their greedy shoulders. Local Samosa made a list of Indian forts, palaces, and gardens for desi Bridgertons to frolick about. The handle @thecrazyindianfoodie shared a
reel
showing a ‘Bridgerton afternoon tea in Mumbai’ that served all the British classics: Dahi vada, samosa, pakoras, and halwa.
For the account ‘Enroute Indian History’, Indian
Bridgerton
unfolds in Mughal India. In its post, the ball became a ‘mehfil-e-sham’ and the marriage season was the shaadi season—complete with horoscopes. Everyone knows the British were nowhere near India in the Regency era, right? “Badass begums walked so Bridgerton could run,” a slide read. Bless the AI model that hallucinated this brilliance.
The
Bridgerton
aesthetic for Indians is vaguely historical and preferably White-coded. It’s the whole reason the ‘desi Bridgerton’ trend exists—we’re busy putting White Bridgerton women in ugly saris because we don’t want to acknowledge dark-skinned Kate Sharma as our own. To be fair, the show
did
choose to name her ‘Kathani’.
“If Bridgerton were made in India, this is how the bride would dance,” read the text on a
video
of an Indian woman dancing to ‘Bole Chudiyan’ at her sangeet. She should be thankful Kareena Kapoor is a gracious being and wouldn’t take umbrage at the slander.
Content creator Isha Borah, at least, did it well. Her extravagantly embroidered, mirror-embellished lehenga is exactly the kind of excess Bridgerton’s costume department runs on.
Also read:
How the BMC elections killed AI Hulk
Who’s Indian?
Bridgerton
or not, people on X are always angry. This time, it’s because Kate and Antony, the lead pair from season 2, are nowhere to be found. The show says they’re in India, but Indians want to
see
them in India. And that’s actually brilliant. They’re questioning showrunner Shonda Rhimes’ utopian rendition of the Regency era. Give us a pastel portrait of colonialism if you’re all that, Ms Rhimes.
But just as the “token representation” and “diversity” conversation was getting
louder
, with Kate fans saying the show sidelined a POC character, Luke Thompson—one of the leads in season 4—
revealed
that he’s quarter Indian. Take that, you haters.
“I always liked him more than anyone on the show, and bamm now he reveals we are related,” read a comment on the interview clip. “Lukepreet Singh,” someone chimed in.
But one comment summed up India’s
Bridgerton
mania.
“Bridgeton is basically the Indian Arrange Marriage system, but because it’s a Netflix show, the audience loves the very thing they despise these days.”
Views are personal.
(Edited by Theres Sudep)