SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Weakest govt: Cong leader slams BJP in Manipur over law and order, ethnic tensions
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-21
URL: https://theprint.in/india/weakest-govt-cong-leader-slams-bjp-in-manipur-over-law-and-order-ethnic-tensions/2885509/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Imphal, Mar 21 (PTI) Congress Legislature Party leader Keisham Meghachandra Singh on Saturday targeted the BJP-led dispensation in Manipur over the law and order situation, and described it as the “weakest government” to rule the state.
“We have no hope from the government. It is very unfortunate that there is fresh tension between the Naga and Kuki communities, while the nearly three-year ethnic strife (between Meiteis and Kuki-Zo) is yet to be resolved,” he claimed.
Last month, a fresh firing was reported at the Litan Sareikhong area in Ukhrul district of Manipur, allegedly by Tangkhul Naga village volunteers, causing panic and commotion among the people. Police had requested both the Kuki and Naga communities in and around Litan to refrain from spreading rumours to prevent any further escalation.
Show Full Article
On the other hand, more than 260 people have been killed and thousands rendered homeless in ethnic violence between Meiteis and Kuki-Zo groups since May 2023.
Slamming the BJP, the Congress leader said, “There is no hope on the law-and-order front. The state and Central governments are not coordinating with each other, and as such, the nearly three-year-old strife cannot be ended. We cannot see any seriousness among the governments in resolving the issue.”.
“Arson and killings are happening within the jurisdiction of both state and central forces. The state government is not able to bring a roadmap for peace. It’s all because the weakest government exists in Manipur.
“They have not been able to resolve issues related to internally displaced people or establish peace. It has no responsibility or accountability,” Singh alleged. PTI COR NSD
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.