SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Son of school trustee detained for seeking sexual favours from teacher, sending lewd messages to her
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/son-of-school-trustee-detained-for-seeking-sexual-favours-from-teacher-sending-lewd-messages-to-her/2889698/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Thane, Mar 26 (PTI) Police on Thursday detained the son of a trustee of an English medium school at Dombivli in Maharashtra’s Thane district for allegedly sending lewd messages to a women teacher and demanding sexual favours from her, officials said.
A case has been filed against the 31-year-old accused in this connection at the Manpada police station, they said.
Tense moments prevailed at the school located in Sagav area after a group of local Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) functionaries approached its management seeking action against the son of the trustee.
Show Full Article
The accused is the son of a retired professor, who is now on the trust that runs the school. He allegedly harassed the teacher by sending lewd messages, including video clips, to her. The victim alleged that he demanded sexual favours from her, a police official said.
Despite the teacher’s attempts to block and ignore the advances, the harassment continued. The matter escalated when the distressed teacher approached MNS office-bearers.
A large group of MNS activists stormed the school premises on Thursday morning, raising slogans and demanding action against the accused.
The situation remained tense for over an hour as activists and women members prepared to confront the accused. However, a police team rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control.
The trustee said if his son is found guilty, the law must take its course.
The police official said, “The accused has been taken into custody. We are currently recording the statements and verifying the digital evidence. He has been detained for questioning, and an FIR has been registered.” Investigation is underway into the case, he said. PTI COR NP
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.