SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: McIlroy to return for DP World India Championship at Delhi Golf Club
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/sport/mcilroy-to-return-for-dp-world-india-championship-at-delhi-golf-club/2893907/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi, Apr 1 (PTI) Five-time Major winner Rory McIlroy will tee up at the DP World India Championship at the Delhi Golf Club for a second consecutive season from October 15 to 18.
The World No.2 and career Grand Slam winner made his first ever appearance in India last season and is now confirmed to return for the USD 4,000,000 event.
The reigning Race to Dubai champion confirmed his position as a golfing icon when he completed the career Grand Slam in memorable fashion at the Augusta National last year.
Show Full Article
The Green Jacket added to his four previous Major victories at the 2011 U.S. Open, the US PGA Championship in 2012 and 2014 and The Open in 2014.
“I’ve always enjoyed playing a global schedule so I was excited to visit India for the first time last season to be part of the inaugural DP World India Championship,” McIroy said in a press release.
“The golf fans in India were so welcoming, and the whole experience was truly memorable, so it’s a pleasure to be returning to Delhi in October.” The Irishman’s stellar 2025 season also included a second Amgen Irish Open title and two more victories on the PGA TOUR, as well as helping Europe earn their first away win in the Ryder Cup since 2012 at Bethpage Black, New York.
He rounded out the year by being crowned Race to Dubai champion for a seventh time — and fourth in succession.
Alongside McIlroy, 2025 winner, world No.4 and reigning FedExCup champion Tommy Fleetwood has also confirmed his participation.
Global smart logistics provider DP World and the DP World Tour launched the DP World India Championship in 2025.
Co-sanctioned by the DP World Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI), the tournament features the largest prize fund ever offered for a DP World Tour event in India.
Hemant Kumar Ruia, Country Manager, DP World India Subcontinent said, “This tournament reflects our long-term commitment to strengthening trade and connectivity across the region.
The DP World India Championship will be the eighth of nine events in the Back Nine phase of the 2026 Race to Dubai, building towards the season-ending DP World Tour Play-Offs and culminating in the DP World Tour Championship in November at Jumeirah Golf Estates in Dubai. PTI Cor PM PM PM
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.