Dear Sir/ Madam, I am writing with regret to inform you of the unprofessional attitude and irresponsible handling of my request by one of your staff at the panjim office (Shop-4, Shankar Parvati Building Opp Education Dept, Governador Pestana, Road, Panjim, Goa, Panaji, Goa 403001) The lady’s name is Ms Erum. On the 15/7/22 I called Dhl/blue dart and spoke to Ms Erum who informed me to come to the office at the above address at 10 am the following day ( saturday16/7/22) I informed her that the document I was sending was original, important and must reach Delhi on the 18/7. She assured my that it would be sent on the 16/7 and would reach on 18/7 in Delhi if there were no unexpected delays by the courier service On the 16/7/22 I was at the office at 10 am . There was a gentlemen before me who was already waiting for Ms Erum to come on duty. Another client after me, who left because he could wait no longer! We waited until 11 am and often requested the other lady at the office (assistant )to call Ms Erum on her mobile to check her whereabouts. She, was not only late for duty but delayed and upset my / our schedules as well. Upon arrival, Ms Erum did not even have the courtesy to apologize for the delay! We were informed by the office assistant that this is a regular issue with Ms Erum! On the 18/7, To my surprise, upon Tracking My courier I am informed that it is delayed and will reach only on the 21/7, instead of18/7. I called Mr Pranay (who was on duty and is also an employee at the dhl /bluedart office ) - he informed me that the delay was no fault of the courier service but Ms Erum who left the office early on Saturday because of which my courier did not leave on Saturday 16/7 ( as foreseen) Had she been there, he said, the COurier would have left on time and reached on the 18/7. I find this behavior if Ms Erum absolutely irresponsible! Dhl /blue dart will loose valuable customers if the staff are so irresponsible and have a ‘Dont care’ attitude. I will be sharing this unfortunate experience (at Dhl / blue date Panaji ) with all my friends and contacts and will discourage them to use the DHl /blue dart courier service, and will do the same myself, until I have received an update on this issue from the department handling grievance. I hope Dhl / blue dart care enough for the clients and betterment of the company to do something about issues that will hinder the business. Cordially Karen Pereira