SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Malayalam female actor threatens legal action against activist
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2025-01-11
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/malayalam-female-actor-threatens-legal-action-against-activist/2441457/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Kochi, Jan 11 (PTI) A Malayalam film actress, who recently accused businessman Boby Chemmanur of sexual harassment, on Saturday said she will take legal action against activist Rahul Easwar for his allegedly defamatory and intimidatory remarks against her on social media.
The actor said that she and her family were under immense mental pressure and one of the persons responsible for it was Easwar.
She accused him of creating an “organised crime operation” in the cyber domain to water down the seriousness of her complaint to the police against Chemmanur and to turn public opinion against her.
Show Full Article
The actor, in a Facebook post, claimed that Easwar’s repeated acts against her were responsible for the instances of cyber-bullying as well as defamatory and intimidatory remarks she was facing.
She alleged that his actions were not only causing her emotional distress, they were an attempt to push her towards suicide and amounted to encroaching upon her fundamental rights.
Easwar had recently made some remarks about the manner in which she dressed in public.
Responding to his comments on the issue, the female actor said, “Insulting or making derogatory comments about a woman’s dressing in public, including on social media, is considered as a form of harassment or cyberbullying, which is punishable under various laws in India.” She further said in her post that when cyberbullying is orchestrated by a person or a PR agency, it is considered as a form of organised crime in India.
The actor also said that the Constitution gives the right to choose one’s attire and the criminal law does not have any specific provisions restricting or regulating clothing choices.
According to the actor’s complaint against Chemmanur, upon invitation, she had inaugurated the Chemmanur International Jewellery showroom at Alakode, Kannur, on August 7, 2024, where thousands had gathered to witness the event.
During the inauguration ceremony, Chemmanur placed a necklace around the actress’s neck and then made unwelcome sexual advances with bad intentions, twirling or rotating her, the complaint has stated.
Chemmanur has denied the allegations against him, calling them “false, baseless, and incorrect”.
The businessman has been charged under section 75(4) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) for making “sexually coloured remarks” as a form of sexual harassment, as well as under section 67 of the IT Act for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form, the police has said. PTI HMP HMP ROH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.