SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Railways aren’t proof of British benevolence. History is never neutral: DY Chandrachud
AUTHOR: Samridhi Tewari
DATE: 2026-02-07
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/around-town/railways-british-benevolence-history-dy-chandrachud/2848446/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
British scholars perpetrated an intellectual fraud by telling the world that they were civilising the colonised ‘barbarians’, senior Supreme Court lawyer and parliamentarian Kapil Sibal
read out from Rakesh Dwivedi’s
Colonisation Crusade and Freedom of India
.
He paused mid-sentence,
looking
up at the audience. “Now tell me, who is uncivilised?”
he added.
Sibal’s
words
drew nods from
a roomful of
lawyers at
the launch of
Dwivedi’s book.
He was joined at
the India International Centre on 6 February
by f
ormer Chief Justice DY Chandrachud
,
solicitor general Tushar Mehta,
and author Dwivedi.
Show Full Article
Colonisation Crusade and Freedom of India
challenges the idea of British colonisers’ “civilising mission”. Instead, t
he 421-page book
argues
that colonial expansion was built on economic plunder, political manipulation, and violence that reshaped countries across the world.
A day before the launch, Dwivedi read in
The Times of India
that US President Donald Trump is
planning
to install
a
statue of Columbus in the White House. “That has some connection with the book,”
Dwivedi
said.
“It was a coincidence that this book starts from the travels of Columbus and Vasco de Gama.
A
lot of books are written about what Nehru
,
Gandhi
,
and Jinnah
—
on the individuals. Some books, of course, have also been written from a geopolitical angle. But I thought that it must be traced,” Dwivedi
added
.
How history is told
According to
Chandrachud
,
history is never neutral. “History is not merely a record of what happened. It is also a record of how what happened is explained.
It
is also about interpreting the course of events,” he said.
Many
Indians
grew up looking at maps
and
reading
text
books that described British rule through railways, administration, and governance, often without questioning who benefited from these systems. “
Even today, colonial institutions are often cited as self-evident proof of benevolent governance. Railways are a common example,”
Chandrachud added.
For him, the
persuasive force of these accounts lay not in overt argument but in their assured tone
.
“Authority appeared structured, deliberate and stabilising. Confidence is the tone of indoctrination,” he said
.
Over time, r
epeated colonial narratives became accepted as fact.
T
he book examines
the
claims by imperial writers
who argue
that India had no strong civilisation, and that the
British Raj
came about accidentally through trade.
Chandrachud
called
Dwivedi’s book
more than just a history
text
, as it invites readers to question long-held assumptions.
Also read:
A floating house has withstood floods in Bihar for 3 years. The engineer wants to scale up
India was a global powerhouse
Mehta
would like
Colonisation Crusade and Freedom of India
to be sold in the UK
.
“I wish it [the book] were sold more in Britain than in India. They should know how their so-called conquest is perceived by the really progressive country, which became progressive after 1947. Loot was masqueraded as governance, famine as a policy, violence justified by an empire that was very good at lying to itself and also to the world,” he said.
Sibal was more pointed
in his approach
, and focused on the economic impact of colonial rule. He argued that India was once a global powerhouse. “By the 1700s, India accounted for nearly 25
per cent
of the world’s GDP. We were exporters to the world. A maritime power with a thriving textile industry,” he said.
C
olonial policies were designed to weaken local industry. “They imposed duties up to 71
per cent
on Indian textiles and destroyed an entire industry.”
Sibal went on to
question the popular claims about colonial “gifts”.
The
railways,
for instance
, were built to move goods to ports for British interests.
“And what did we end up with? Plunder, loot, an economy destroyed, and people subjugated.”
(Edited by Prasanna Bachchhav)