I have brought product from amazon on 5.4.23. and now it is stop working . I reached out to company over email and you can see in below email and they are asking me to send product over courier. it should be company responsibility. below is the email discussion : Hi Tarun, Reference Ticket ID:474105 We would like to inform you that one side of the courier charges will be from the customer side & one side will be borne by the company. Thanks & Regards Portronics Support Team On Thu, 5 Oct at 11:53 AM, TARUN NAMDEV wrote: This is not right. Why would I bear cost of package courier ?it should be part of warranty. The cost of courier is equal to the cost of product. Please plan this package courier other wise will raise this concern in consumers forum . this is scam your company is doing. Thanks & Regard, Tarun Namdev Sent from Mail for Windows From: Sandeep Kumar Sent: 05 October 2023 11:46 To: tarun.[protected]@outlook.com Subject: Re: Support Ticket "Request to replace product Portronics MPORT 31C 4-in-1 USB Hub . it is not working" Hi Tarun, Reference Ticket ID:474105 Greetings from Portronics. We apologized for the inconvenience caused to you with your product so to resolve it you need to mention your product issue on the paper, pack properly your product & kindly mention your ticket number on the top of the courier box and send it to one of our service centers, our technical team will check and after testing your product will repair/replace then it will courier back to you, Once you send the product please share your tracking details on mail our address is given below:- NCR SERVICE CENTER PORTRONICS DIGITAL PVT LTD. D-8, SECTOR-8 Noida Uttar Pradesh Pin Code-201301 Ph No. – +91- [protected] (It is only for Delivery OTP purposes) Note - Customer visit/walking is not allowed as only for courier MUMBAI SERVICE CENTER PORTRONICS DIGITAL PVT LTD. Office no. 404/405, A-Wing Winsway Complex, old Police Lane, Opp. Railway Station Andheri east Mumbai 400069 Ph No.. [protected] Timings - 11am to 6pm (Sat-Sun Close) Note - We work with a carry-in warranty, we don't have onsite/pickup service. Courier charges are nonrefundable by the company; physical damage will not cover the warranty. In case of any additional queries, feel free to contact us at [protected] (10:00 am to 06:00 pm) or drop an email at [protected]@portronics.com Thanks & Regards Portronics Support Team On Tue, 3 Oct at 5:42 PM, TARUN NAMDEV wrote: Hi please find attached screenshot where portronics connecter is not working. While connecting laptop with other devices. Sent from Outlook for Android From: Sandeep Kumar Sent: Tuesday, October 3, 2023 5:32:34 PM To: tarun.[protected]@outlook.com Subject: Re: Support Ticket "Request to replace product Portronics MPORT 31C 4-in-1 USB Hub . it is not working" Hi Tarun, Reference Ticket ID:474105 We would like to request you to please elaborate/describe your product issue and kindly share product images. Thanks & Regards Portronics Support Team Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)