This is to keep you informed that we were about to take two insurance policies in max life bangalore. It was taken in the year 2014. We were unable to make the renewal payment further to the polices neither continue the same due to our financial crises. We called and visited the branche to close the policy in bangalore when my insurance was active stage. But the person did not accept in front office you can't be cancelled at least you should pay minimum 3years. But we were totally unhappy with the service. We are orphanage just a middle class family we paid for our safety for future purposes. At this time my sister shoba got married. At the time of marriage we faced a lot and critical financial issues. At the same after few months my premium was due but we are already in critical condition went on high risk my sister was got delivered and given birth to girl baby. No body took care she went on depression due to this my sister husband left her. But now iam taking care of my sister. As my self working as a maiden is unable to take care of her and my sister daughter due to financial issues. Iam really working hard to take care for her for hospitalization iam really request you we both or orphanage as humanity from your side please release mine and my sister what we paid premium it will be helpful for her hospilization and her baby too. It will help for her since its a huge amt of first premium altogether once again request to cancel our policy and refund my and my sister money at the earliest. It's our hard earned money which i kept for my marriage (Varalakshmi) still iam not married due to my sister health. I gave up off my life to look my sister for future. Kindly look into our issues and release orphanage premium amount and revert back at the earliest. My policy i'd //[protected] varalakshmi premium paid 44, 999/rs. And my sister shobha i'd //[protected] premium amount 51, 327/ in the year april 2017... Do needful for orphanage we will be waiting for our premium paid amount.