SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Shah Rukh Khan is the biggest victim of deepfakes, says a 2025 list
AUTHOR: Tina Das
DATE: 2025-11-17
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/shah-rukh-khan-deepfakes-list-2025/2785939/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
Sophisticated AI tools have made it easy for anyone to create
compelling
videos, ad
vertisement
s
,
and content
using
anyone
’s likeness
by cloning voices and manipulating authentic videos. Among Indian celebrities, Shah Rukh Khan and Alia Bhatt top McAfee India’s 2025 ‘Most Dangerous Celebrities: Deepfake Deception List’.
McAfee’s research shows
that
90
per cent
of Indians have encountered fake or AI-generated celebrity endorsements, with victims losing an average of Rs 34,500 to such scams.
About
60
per cent
have also seen AI-generated or deepfake content featuring influencers or online personalities, not just mainstream celebrities
. This highlights
how rapidly deceptive content is spreading.
All it takes is three seconds of someone’s voice, and India’s favourite celebrities can unwittingly become part of fraudsters’ scams.
Show Full Article
McAfee, which offers online security and protection solutions, conducted a
n online
survey in August
to
examine the impact of scams on consumers across India, Australia, Germany, France, Japan, the United Kingdom
,
and the United States.
“Deepfakes have changed the game for cybercriminals; they’re no longer hacking systems—they’re hacking human trust,” said Pratim Mukherjee, Senior Director of Engineering, McAfee.
Mukherjee added that India’s celebrity culture and massive online engagement make the threat even more dangerous.
“Technology can now effortlessly mimic the voices, faces, and mannerisms of people we admire. In a country where millions engage with celebrity and influencer content daily, such fakes can spread instantly. It’s becoming harder to tell what’s real and what’s not—making awareness, caution, and reliable protection tools more critical than ever,”
he
said
.
Celebrity deepfakes are being used to mimic promotions for skincare products, giveaways, and crypto or trading schemes. In January 2024, an
online game
, ‘Aviator: Escape Apocalypse’, used deepfake ads of Khan, Kapil Dev
, a
nd Sachin Tendulkar.
The list goes on
The persistent use of AI to create deepfakes has also prompted multiple celebrities to take legal recourse. In September,
Abhishek Bachchan
and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan approached
the
Delhi High Court for protection of their personality rights. In 2022, Amitabh Bachchan too had approached the court when his photo and voice
were used
in a
Kaun Banega Crorepati
lottery scam.
Recently, actor Girija Oak, who acted with Khan in
Jawan
(202
3
), spoke of how her AI-generated images
have been
circulating online. She shared a video on Instagram and spoke of its impact, especially on her 12-year-old son.
“These obscene images of his mother are something he will see one day. He’ll know they’re not real—they’re AI-generated, just as everyone who sees them now knows they’re fake—but they still give people a cheap thrill, a kind of titillation. That is scary. I know I can’t do much to stop it, but doing nothing doesn’t feel right either,” Oak
said
.
Content creator Raj Shamani, known for his podcast,
Figuring Out
, has
asked
his legal team
to
seek an injunction
order against social media channels and websites
that
use his name, persona, or
other
attributes. The hearing is scheduled for 17 November.
(Edited by Prasanna Bachchhav)