Dear Sir, I enrolled for Airtel IPTV Service on 11 Jan 2011 vide at my residence in Sukhdev Vihar, New Delhi. For the installation of service, I’ve paid Rs.1750/- as installation charge with a monthly pack of Rs.999 per month which includes unlimited broadband at 512kbps speed and a landline connection. My experience so far has been VERY FRUSTATING, full of agony, mental torture and all my communication is affected which has deeply hurt my family, my aged parents and my profession/patients. The service worked initially for some days only. But it starts hanging the pictures and No network on 25 Mar 2011 after my complaint on 27 Mar 2011 repeated on[protected]complain No. 44597622 and 44821264 respectively), Airtel Replace my Modem But problem not resolved. Since 27 Mar 2011 the service has hanging problem and no network till Now,  Me and my friend's repeated calls to Airtel service centers are either disconnected by IVR or not logged at all. I am always told that either the Server is down or the Server is getting upgraded. I’ve been talking to Airtel technical agent and they suggest me to remove all connection from Modem and Connect again after a mint. When I contact to Mr. Gaurav[protected] – system installer) almost daily (for last 4 days) to get the service working but everyday he tells me that this are have some network issue it will be resolved soon. Due to this problem I have not paid airtel bill (No.[protected] Dated 12 Apr 2011, Amount: 1101.90INR) Because I want to remove 12 days chanrges from this bill , In these days I have not used Airtel Services. 1.     I request hanging and no signal problem to  airtel by  Mail to [protected]@in.airtel.com on 9 may 2011 After no response from airtel 2.     I repeat mail to 121 for disconnection of services on 10 may 2011 , When I was trying to reach airtel by phone my phone was disconnected after 15 mint hold on IVR. 3.     I gain call to airtel by phone on 12 may 2011 against service request No. 46227820 , But No one come for service/Disconnection from Airtel. , 4.     I repeat my complain to 121 again on 13 may 2011 to disconnect service (Request No.[protected] After my 4 complain within 4 days Mr. Gaurav[protected] – system installer) called me and told me that my wiring is defective so they have to install new wiring but they don’t have stock of those wires so I have to wait. See attached pic of last month for your refrence. Despite of solving my issue airtel continue to generate another bill on 12 may 2011 of amount: 1176.90 with a late payment fee of INR 75/-) Now airtel want me to pay INR 2356 But, I want to Remove 45 Days Charges from this period, Otherwise I will not pay any panny to airtel. If the service was launched recently, I fail to understand the need for a server upgrade. Why has the service been commercial when the basic infrastructure is not ready to support the triple service. My family members are deprived of their entertainment needs as the TV is down. My kids school assignments are affected as they cannot do their research on internet and they have to spend money on cyber cafes and a family member has to accompany them for the same which causes lot of inconvenience and has upset the family schedule. My profession is affected since I cannot contact my patients for their problems or after-care since last 45 days which is adding to my loss of income. By subscribing to this Airtel service, I seem to have enrolled for agony, if nothing else. I want Airtel to restore my service, confirm that the service will run uninterrupted as the whole communication gets affected with this service, refund me the installation amount and compensate me for the denial of services, false hope and false promises, non-functioning of Telephone, Broadband and TV and for the harassment, mental agony and loss of income it has caused to me, my aged parents, my kids and other family members. Also, Airtel should be directed to put in a geographic redundant system so there are no further excuses like service upgrades the whole communication needs are affected by an untested system/service. Allowing such services on one pipe is catastrophic itself in nature and such services let Airtel monepolize and take the customer to ransom by not committing to restoration of services. No Telecommunication services should be allowed to run if the Operator cannot restore it in 2-3 hrs.