A laptop was ordered on 02 october on amazon india. The total cost was rs.49, 990/-. There was an exchange of old laptop for rs.2000/-. The order (#[protected] was delivered on 05 october. The old laptop was checked and taken by the agent who delivered the laptop.in about an hour, the package was opened and the laptop was not switching on. Amazon was contacted immediately and a technician was arranged to visit on 11 october 2019. At around the scheduled time, one gentleman called and inquired which model mobile which needs to be repaired. When we told it is laptop and not mobile, he declined to come and cancelled the appointment. The a return and refund was requested. Amazon asked the reason and it was told. It was agreed to do the pick up by 1pm on saturday, 12 october 2019. One agent cane saw the laptop and said another agent will come and pick it up later. But no body came. When amazon was contacted they arranged another pick for 13th october. That day also we waited for the whole day nobody turned up. While organising this me and my wife attended calls from the amazon loosing our time. I was abroad and this costed lot of money. Finally, the pick was arranged for 14 october 2019 (Today). It did not happen today also. Today, i was on a call with amazon for 30 minutes. The call was shifted from department to department despite telling them it is regarding pick up of a returned good. Finally, they transferred to a person named ravi who speaks only hindi and was very arrogant. This seems to be a technique that they eventually land to a hindi speaking person and the customer might not be knowing the language. They did the same with my wife on 13th october and she had to disconnect as she doesn't speak hindi. The other issue is that even while chatting the agents keep changing and hence there is a discontinuity and time time for each person to understand the whole affair. The issue is not resolved although i have been told it will be done tomorrow else i have to return it myself. This experience had been horrifying and tiring. I have lost good time, energy and money following it up. Further, i had removed all the data from the laptop i was using and couldn't work since 05 october 2019. This also has impacted me badly The invoice and chat history (Slides 1 to 3 and 5 to 10) with amazon on 13 and 14 october 2019 is attached I was told to wait till 15th october for pick up else i have to self-return it to the address in the invoice and i am not sure of the refund process if i return it by courier.