This is Gaurav Acharya, a responsible citizen of Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. The reason behind writing this mail is to raise a serious dispute of data breach against Naukri.com Its shameful that naukri could not able to prevent our personal data from getting leak, and now created the trust issue. I am availing the fast forward service of naukri since 3 months and I canceled my subscription on 6th july 2021, as I dont want to continue this service. On 7th july 2021, naukri team called me and verified that I canceled the subscription. On 8th July 2021, I got the 2nd verification call which is from the FRAUD Naukri cheaters named Kavya and She told me that "I am speaking from Naukri.com and as you canceled the fast forward subscription, we have our refund policy if you are not satisfied with our service and we will refund you some of the amount and extra 2 months free service." she again asked me my debit card details saying " fill the card details on given link and share OTP and then we will proceed with the transfer process." Money gets debited instead of getting refunds. Then she told its a technical glitch and have to do the same procedure again. that cheaters duped me for 19000 Rs. After this whole Scenario, I just wanted to ask naukri.com HOW MY PERSONAL INFORMATION GOT LEAKED TO THE FRAUDSTERS? Then why you make us secure login with username and password. How that cheaters come to know that I canceled my my subscription on so and so date and how can they say its a confirmation call form naukri.com. As a service provider, it is naukri.com's responsibilty to protect our personal information that we filled on naukri portal from getting leaked. Otherwise Naukri.com also considered as a Culprit. Or may be the Naukri.com employees are leaking the information to fraudsters. I think Naukri.com shouldn't take their responsibilities lightly. I trust that cheaters because they have my all important details which I have filled in Naukri portal and they told me that they are from Naukri.com. They exactly knew when do I canceled the paid subscription and trapped me in their sweet talks. We have registered a police and a bank complaint against that fraudsters. They will take the appropriate action against them. I will sue the Naukri.com as well. Its a big trust issue and naukri.com broke my trust. It is highly disappointing and I have never expect this ### happeded to me. I have all the transaction details with me. I will not recommend Naukri.com to anybody. And I am planning to raised the complaint under Indian Date Protection Bill 2019. I hpoe that Naukri.com will give the answers of my questions and complaints... Thanks and Regards, Gaurav Acharya [protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (5)