SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Ranjith arrest: Kerala CM says unaware of details, terms action satisfactory
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/india/ranjith-arrest-kerala-cm-says-unaware-of-details-terms-action-satisfactory/2893847/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Alappuzha, Apr 1 (PTI) Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said he was not fully aware of the allegations against noted Malayalam film director Ranjith, who has been arrested in an alleged sexual assault case, but added that there were no complaints regarding the action taken so far by the authorities.
Responding to queries from reporters, Vijayan said he had no detailed knowledge of the allegations.
A Left sympathiser, Ranjith had served as the chairman of the Kerala Chalachitra Academy during the tenure of second Vijayan government.
Show Full Article
He noted that, in view of the Model Code of Conduct in place due to the upcoming Assembly elections, matters were being handled accordingly and he was not in a position to have complete information on all government-related developments.
“I am not fully aware of the complaint against Ranjith. Like you, I have also come to know about it only through available information,” the CM said.
As of now, there are no complaints regarding the action taken, and it appears that things are proceeding in a proper manner,” the chief minister added.
Ranjith was arrested late Tuesday night in connection with a case of alleged attempted sexual assault, police said.
According to the police, a woman actor alleged that the director had invited her to a caravan during a film shoot and attempted to sexually assault her.
The director, who was remanded to judicial custody for 14 days, denied the allegations and termed them “false”, saying the truth would be proved. He made the remarks to reporters while being taken to a sub-jail here.
Ranjith had earlier faced allegations of sexual harassment following revelations in the Justice K Hema Committee report on harassment and abuse in the Malayalam film industry.
In 2024, a case was also registered against him after a Bengali actress filed a complaint with the Kochi City Police Commissioner, alleging that he had touched her inappropriately with sexual intent after inviting her to act in the film “Paleri Manikyam” in 2009. PTI LGK ADB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.