SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: PM Modi vows to implement Uniform Civil Code in Assam, declares BJP does what it  says
AUTHOR: ANI
DATE: 2026-04-01
URL: https://theprint.in/india/pm-modi-vows-to-implement-uniform-civil-code-in-assam-declares-bjp-does-what-it-says/2894153/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Gogamukh
: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday vowed to implement the Uniform Civil Code in Assam, while reiterating the state government’s commitment to protecting tribal traditions, Sixth Schedule areas and preserving Assam’s identity.
Addressing a public rally in Gogamukh, the Prime Minister said that several key decisions have been taken to ensure dignity, safety and equal rights, particularly for women.
“To ensure that no deceit is done to our daughters, many major announcements have also been made to ensure the dignity, respect, and safety of our daughters’ lives. Implementing the Uniform Civil Code in Assam and protecting the traditions of our tribal society, Sixth Schedule areas, or saving Assam’s identity are very big announcements. The BJP does what it says,” he said.
Launching a sharp attack on the Congress party, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused it of pursuing divisive politics, alleging that it had earlier attempted to introduce legislation that could have created divisions in society.
Show Full Article
Referring to the pre-2014 period, the Prime Minister claimed that the Congress-led government had proposed a communal violence bill with the objective of appeasing a “particular vote bank.” He also recalled the BJP’s opposition to the proposed legislation, stating that the party had strongly protested against it while warning about its potential consequences if implemented.
“Before 2014, the Congress-led central government tried to bring a communal violence bill. Its objective was to appease its guaranteed vote bank. In this bill, the majority community would have been treated as the culprit in violence and religious minorities would have been declared victims. This was a divisive bill. The BJP fought against it. Had this bill been passed, imagine the harassment the majority of society would have faced. Now, 12 years later, Congress is trying to bring a similar bill in Assam. Congress leaders are openly saying this to win the elections,” said the Prime Minister.
He further alleged that similar approaches are now being attempted in Assam for electoral gains. “First, the Muslim League and now Congress are trying to divide the country,” PM Modi added.
Reflecting to BJP’s manifesto, the Prime Minister termed it as “Mangal Patra”, adding that it can only bring “Mangal” (auspiciousness) in the state.
“The Assam BJP released a splendid manifesto yesterday. It was Tuesday yesterday, and this manifesto released on Tuesday is set to bring more ‘Mangal’ (auspiciousness) to Assam… This is the
‘Mangal Patra’ that arrived on Tuesday,” PM Modi said.
He noted that Assam has traversed a long journey of development in the past ten years, while emphasising that the current youth have only seen the BJP’s “good governance” but not the “dark rule” of the Congress party.
“In the past decade, Assam has traversed a long journey of development. These 20-25-year-old youngsters have only witnessed the good governance of the BJP-NDA. They have not seen the dark era of Congress rule, when news from Assam was only about bombs, guns, riots, and curfews. The double-engine government has shown Assam a new path to lasting peace. Thousands of Assam’s sons and daughters have, in the past decade, put down the gun and connected to a new future,” the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister also criticised the Congress over connectivity across the Brahmaputra river, alleging that the party failed to address infrastructure gaps during its tenure. PM Modi stated that the Congress party could only manage to construct three bridges in past 65 years, whereas under the BJP’s rule, five new bridges have been constructed in just 11 years.
“Assam has been gifted so much by nature; Assam has never lacked resources. But for the sake of power, Congress divided the society of Assam and never allowed the two banks of the Brahmaputra to connect. In 60-65 years, Congress built only 3 bridges over the Brahmaputra. Due to the lack of bridges, we lost so many people. The double-engine government understood this problem and completed 5 major bridges over the Brahmaputra in just 10-11 years,” he said.
The polling for all 126 Assembly constituencies will be held in a single phase on April 9, while the counting of votes is scheduled for May 4. Assam will witness a fight between the incumbent BJP-led NDA government and Congress for the 126-seat assembly.
The BJP is contesting the elections with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland People’s Front (BPF).
The NDA will look to secure a third consecutive term, while the Congress aims to defeat the ruling party to return to power. (ANI)