SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: BJP to go solo in Punjab; Shah promises anti-conversion law, end to drug menace
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-14
URL: https://theprint.in/india/bjp-to-go-solo-in-punjab-shah-promises-anti-conversion-law-end-to-drug-menace/2879205/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Moga (Punjab), Mar 14 (PTI) Union Minister Amit Shah on Saturday asserted that the BJP will fight the 2027 polls on its own with the aim to form its government in Punjab, where it had only been a junior partner to SAD, and promised to bring an anti-conversion law and end the drug menace in the state, urging voters to give the party one opportunity to bring change.
Sounding the poll bugle at a “Badlav” (change) rally in Moga, the senior BJP leader said that the people of the state have given many chances to Congress, Akalis and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), but these parties could not deliver.
“Today, Punjab has been destroyed due to debt, drugs, religious conversions, corruption and terror of gangsters,” Shah said and asserted that only the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi can rid the state of its problems.
Show Full Article
Launching a stinging broadside against the Bhagwant Mann government over the drug menace and law and order issues, he promised that the drug trade would be rooted out in just two years if the BJP comes to power in 2027.
Accusing the Mann government of being steeped in corruption, Shah alleged that it has become an “ATM” for AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal.
Shah also vowed to bring a law to check illegal religious conversions in Punjab if the BJP forms the government in the 2027 assembly polls, even as he asserted that peace and development in Punjab were not possible without Hindu-Sikh unity, and “only under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, this unity is possible”.
Targeting Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, who was a comic actor before entering politics, Shah said that Punjab does not need a CM to make people laugh but one who can govern the state well.
Citing a report, Shah said 45 per cent of the total drug trade in the country is in Punjab only.
“We scrapped Article 370 in J&K. Today, Naxalism is on the verge of its end,” he said, adding that terrorism is also counting its last breaths.
Shah, who was wearing a saffron turban, said if anybody can free Punjab from drugs and other problems, it is only Narendra Modi and the BJP.
“AAP doesn’t have the gumption to end the drug menace; Congress and Akalis have already failed. If there is anyone who can rid the state of the drug menace, it is only Narendra Modi and the BJP,” Shah said.
Addressing the rally, Shah said that the polls are going to take place in 2027, and from Moga, the BJP, in a way, has launched its poll campaign. “I have come to appeal to people of Punjab,” the Union minister said, seeking support for his party.
Many party leaders, including BJP leaders Tarun Chugh, Union Minister Ravneet Singh Bittu, Punjab BJP president Sunil Jakhar and Punjab BJP working president Ashwani Sharma, were present at the rally. Former chief minister Amarinder Singh, who recently had a knee surgery, did not attend, though his wife Preneet Kaur was present.
With the BJP earlier having been part of the government in Punjab as a junior partner to the Akalis, Shah, without naming any party, told the gathering, “Hum jab bhi aaye chhote bhai kay roop mein aapke saamne aaye (Whenever we came before you, we came in the role of a younger brother). We could not have formed the government (on our own)”.
“Magar aaj mein keh kar jaata hu 27 (2027) kay chunav mein, Bharatiya Janata Party apni sarkar banane kay liye chunav ladne ja rahi hai (The BJP is now going to fight the 2027 election to form its government in Punjab),” he said.
The Shiromani Akali Dal had snapped its 24-year-old alliance with the BJP in September 2020 over the now-scrapped three farm laws. The SAD-BJP combine formed the government in the state thrice –1997-2002, 2007-12, and 2012-17, with the BJP being the junior partner.
Attacking the AAP government, Shah said, “There is no government in this state. Had there been a government, the law and order situation would not have been so; the state would not have been reeling from the drug menace, and farmers would not have been suffering…. Mann has only been acting as Kejriwal’s pilot,” Shah said.
He alleged that the Bhagwant Mann government is “drowned” in corruption. “CM Mann should be ashamed that four ‘subedars’ from Delhi were sitting in the state and sending out all its wealth,” Shah said, listing alleged scams.
“Can this corrupt government do any good to Punjab? The AAP government in Punjab has become an ATM for Arvind Kejriwal. It is playing with Punjab’s dignity,” he alleged.
Give one chance to the BJP, he said, “We will bring a change in Punjab.” Shah questioned the Mann government over its poll promises, asking whether it fulfilled its pledges like giving a minimum support price on all crops and increasing the old age pension amount.
The AAP came to power promising a change, said Shah.
“I want to ask the AAP leaders, what is your Chief Minister (Bhagwant Mann) doing?” he said.
Shah said that in the entire country, where Arvind Kejriwal has to go, Mann accompanies him like a “pilot” in a state government plane (helicopter) on the Punjab government’s expenses.
“Other than being his (Kejriwal’s) pilot, this CM (Mann) has done nothing else,” he said.
He targeted the AAP government over poll promises as he asked the gathering whether they had got 25 lakh jobs, 16,000 government dispensaries and Rs 2,500 widow pension and old age pension.
Referring to alleged irregularities under the Mann government, Shah mentioned the alleged Moga outdoor advertisement scam, Amritsar Smart city, Jalandhar Smart city projects scam, Barnala truck union land scam, Khadoor Sahib Panchayat fund scam, Anganwadi ‘Panjiri’ scam, and spending of over Rs 800 crore on advertisements.
Attacking the state government over the law and order in the state, Shah said three village sarpanches have been killed in 2026, gangsters were extorting money from people and an assistant sub-inspector was killed in a police chownki.
Highlighting the initiatives taken for the Sikh community, Shah spoke about the opening of the Kartarpur corridor, observing Veer Bal Diwas and reopening files related to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.
Attacking the Congress, Shah accused it of orchestrating attack on Akal Takht.
Terrorism came during the Congress regime, and there was a fight between Hindus and Sikhs, he said. Punjab’s development, Punjab’s peace is not possible without Sikh-Hindu unity and this can be possible under Modi’s leadership, he said.
Shah lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for saying that had Jawaharlal Nehru been alive, then BSP founder Kanshi Ram would have been a chief minister.
“Rahul Baba who are you to appoint. Kanshi Ram ji was a big leader. What did Nehru do with B R Ambedkar ji? He (Ambedkar) was defeated in elections,” said Shah.
On the India-US trade deal, Shah slammed both the AAP government and the Congress, accusing them of misleading farmers. PTI CHS SUN VSD RT RT
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.