From, Sssn - students social service network (Registered at new delhi) Reg : arasu ellappan (Most dangerous criminal – fraud – job killer – black listed) Police case registered against him The said criminal is spreading wrong info about many employers and destroying their business and destroying jobs. Also sending bad emails to employers Fwd this info to all and isolate him from any job & take criminal action against him. Dear all, Most urgent alert to all students, job seekers, employers community This is to save students & lakhs of jobs please. Kindly forward this email to as many as you can and spread the alert using social medias like facebook, twitter, whatsapps etc. We are one of the students social service network and helping employers and students from dangerous criminal fellows by threatening to the extent of murder & using bad words / dirty words / unparliamentarily words especially through websites to spoil employers business & lakhs of students jobs. After our members hard effort we have found one of the culprit / dangerous fraud fellow arasu ellappan, b. E in electrical and electronics 2011 passout with bad remarks and many arrears. Email id : Arasuellapan. [protected]@gmail.com Mb : [protected],, [protected] (See attached photo about him), put this case data in all social medias for alert to all employers & students. Arasu ellappan is responsible for more unemployments because if any employers allows fraud fellow arasu ellappan that’s all he destroys all jobs and business. He already destroyed business / jobs of many companies. Sssn is request here you all, please send all information about him to all companies and all students to isolate arasu ellappan from any job and from destroying jobs.  arasu ellappan already spoiled many students futures and jobs.  sssn will take legal action against him soon.  sssn will not allow him further to damage students / jobs / employers. Once again sssn request all to forward this info to all concerns / job seekers / job consultants & put arasu ellappan photo in all social medias like facebook, twitter, whatsapps etc. For alert to all employers & students and ofcourse to job seekers. This note will stop other such criminal fellows from destroying students jobs. Save lakhs of jobs & students by doing so please. Kindly reply to us for membership / we will send the membership form/ no membership fees. We have link with many genuine company’s and many students from iit to all engineering colleges. Especially engineering college student representatives are welcome. Avail all benefits from sssn after membership with us. Thank you for your timing spent on the above important alert, will definitely save lakhs & millions of students and jobs globally. That's all, Sssn (Students social service network) Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)