SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Row in poll-bound TN over ‘disrespect to women’: Actor Ranjana accuses TVK supporters, Vijay accuses DMK
AUTHOR: Shweta Tripathi
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/politics/row-in-poll-bound-tn-over-disrespect-to-women-actor-ranjana-accuses-tvk-supporters-vijay-accuses-dmk/2890298/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Chennai:
Actor Ranjana Natchiyaar has filed a complaint against Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam (TVK) supporters, for allegedly abusing her on social media ever since she quit the TVK and joined DMK.
The development adds to the sharp TVK-DMK rivalry that escalated on Thursday when TVK leader actor Vijay himself filed a police complaint against DMK supporter and political commentator Ponraj Vellaichamy for referring to TVK women supporters as “prostitutes” in a conversation with the media a private function.
After filing the complaint, Ranjana told the media that when Vijay was worried about women even in his own party, he should ensure other women were not abused.
Show Full Article
Earlier too, in a public statement, she had accused Vijay of disrespecting women, unapproachable leadership, arbitrary decisions and neglect of grassroots cadres, citing them as her reasons for quitting the TVK.
Even before she quit the TVK, Ranjana had criticised Vijay’s allegedly dismissive remarks on his marriage on Women’s Day, warning that such attitudes would damage the party’s image.
Before TVK, Ranjana had been in the BJP, which she quit in February 2025 over the Hindi imposition row.
Following her recent switch to the ruling DMK, she said TVK’s online supporters have been aggressively targeting her. Ranjana confirmed to ThePrint that she had formally lodged a police complaint against them for online harassment and character assassination.
She alleges that she was also subjected to defamation, threats, false representation, circulation of derogatory content, sexually coloured remarks, and misuse of images on social media. She blames “virtual warriors” of the party, who are retaliating against her public criticism of Vijay and his work.
Ranjana has enclosed screenshots of all offending social media posts, messages, and a voice note as evidence in her complaint. She has requested the police to remove the “misleading and defamatory” posts, take strict action against individuals she has named, and urge the TVK chief to issue a public statement condemning such behaviour.
DMK supporters’ comments against women
Meanwhile, TVK chief and actor Vijay has strongly condemned derogatory remarks made by DMK supporter Ponraj against women supporters of TVK Thursday. Referring to Vijay’s female fans and supporters, Ponraj said, “It is a party filled with prostitutes.” Vijay filed a complaint against Ponraj at the Tamil Nadu DGP’s office Thursday.
In the complaint, Vijay said about Ponraj: “He appears to believe that no one can restrain him, and has been crossing all limits in his remarks.”
Without naming Ponraj, Vijay called him a “mercenary” working for the DMK. “The insult to all women will ensure that the evil force DMK is defeated by women voters in the upcoming elections,” Vijay said in the complaint. He also criticised the DMK government for taking no action against such offenders.
While condemning the statement made by Ponraj, Ranjana said Ponraj did not hold a position in the DMK.
(Edited by Viny Mishra)
Also read:
Scrutiny of Vijay’s personal life derailing agenda ahead of Tamil Nadu polls, say TVK insiders