SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Europe pushes back on some US military operations as concerns over Iran war mount
AUTHOR: Reuters
DATE: 2026-03-31
URL: https://theprint.in/world/europe-pushes-back-on-some-us-military-operations-as-concerns-over-iran-war-mount/2893430/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

By John Irish and Angelo Amante
PARIS/ROME, March 31 (Reuters) – France and Italy have pushed back against some U.S.-Israeli military operations, sources said on Tuesday, as U.S. President Donald Trump criticised NATO allies in Europe as unhelpful in the month-long war in Iran, highlighting divisions.
The decisions came against a backdrop of tensions between Washington and key partners over the war. Earlier this month, Trump called longtime NATO ‌allies “cowards” over their lack of support. On Tuesday, he slammed countries that did not help in the U.S.-Israeli strikes.
FRANCE SAYS NO
Show Full Article
“The Country of France wouldn’t let planes headed to Israel, loaded up with military supplies, fly over French territory. France has been VERY UNHELPFUL with respect to the ‘Butcher of Iran,’ who has been successfully eliminated! The U.S.A. will REMEMBER!!!,” he wrote on Truth Social.
The French presidency said it was surprised by Trump’s social media post and said its decision was in line with France’s policy from the start of the conflict.
A Western diplomat and two sources familiar with the matter told Reuters earlier that the refusal, which happened at the weekend, was the first time France had done this since the start of the conflict on February 28. The sources said Israel had wanted to use France’s airspace to transport American weapons to be used in the war against Iran.
ITALY DENIES PERMISSION
Italy last week denied permission for U.S. military aircraft to land at the Sigonella air base in Sicily before heading to the Middle East, sources said.
According to the Corriere della Sera daily, which first reported the news, “some U.S. bombers” had been due to land at the base in eastern Sicily before flying on to the Middle East.
Italy’s Defence Minister Guido Crosetto later denied any tensions with Washington or any change in policy. He posted a message on X to say that U.S. airbases remained active, but that Washington needed special permission if it wants to use them for purposes not established in previous pacts.
SPAIN IS MOST VOCAL AGAINST WAR
Meanwhile, highlighting divisions within Europe, Spain defended its decision to fully close its airspace to U.S. planes involved in attacks on Iran.
Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has been among the most vocal critics of the U.S. and Israeli strikes.
Spain will only allow for the use of its bases for the collective defence of NATO allies, Spanish Defence Minister Margarita Robles said.
Spain was not concerned about any reprisals, Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares told state broadcaster TVE.
“We fear absolutely nothing. How could a country possibly fear anything for upholding international law, world peace and the United Nations Charter?” he said.
SINGLING OUT BRITAIN
Trump also singled out Britain as being unhelpful, just as Buckingham Palace confirmed King Charles and Queen Camilla will pay a state visit to the U.S. in late April.
He wrote on Truth Social: “All of those countries that can’t get jet fuel because of the Strait of Hormuz, like the United Kingdom, which refused to get involved in the decapitation of Iran, I have a suggestion for you: Number 1, buy from the U.S., we have plenty, and Number 2, build up some delayed courage, go to the Strait, and just TAKE IT.”
The United States, France, Italy, Spain and Britain are all NATO members, as is Germany, which hosts Ramstein, the largest U.S. base in Europe.
Germany has said early in the war that there were no restrictions on the U.S. using the base. But there has been debate about that, particularly since President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said that in his opinion the war was illegal.
(Reporting by John Irish in Paris, Angelo Amante, Giselda Vagnoni, Crispian Balmer in Rome, Charlie Devereux and Emma Pinedo in Madrid, James Mackenzie in Berlin; Writing by Ingrid Melander; Editing by Sharon Singleton and Keith Weir)
Disclaimer: This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.