I have the same experience about it. Agent from Malaysia said i had a package send by my chat friend name Gerald Claude Belckham and my package been hold by the custom because they detected currency inside it.. He said I need to pay the charges of my package. His phone no. is +[protected] and his name is Mr Moritzo Ah mad And mrs noor Azlina. When I call him back asking what cargo here in the Philippines receive my package and deliver to my home address. He did not answer my question... his in hurry that I need to pay the charges so that it will be deliver to my address in few hours. Sad to say, I already paid the half amount.... because my friend Gerald told me that he cannot go in the process of payment coz his in the ocean working in the petrulium oil..grrrrrrr Please give actions for this matter. Below is the mail from the airllink cargo. WELCOME TO AIRLINK CARGO COURIER SERVICES‏ Email:     [protected]@live.com.my) Malaysia Tel: +[protected] 29TH AUGUST,2009 NUMBER: GTXS/ WFD /2009 WELCOME TO AIRLINK COURIER CARGO SERVICES The senders name: Gerald Claude Destination arival:,UK-------- Malaysia-------PHILIPINES Name of the receiver:Miss  ......... RECEIVERS ADDRESS: ....... PHONE NUMBER ;:HP Attn: With reference to the delivery of your package, I wish to bring to your notice that your package has been placed on hold by the Malaysian customs for some reasons which happened to violates the shipping policies. As the goods arrived Malaysia custom check point, the Malaysian custom detected that currency were included in your parcel. Thereby, certain commisions must be paid as customs duty via us which is  for the immediate clearance of your package .For the maintime reference of tracking on the " status" of your package is pending ,this is in accordance to the mode of operations in the Courier sector for financial delivery . We have already taken order number for this package from the custom. You are required to follow all instructions giving to you to facilitate the release of your package.To do this, you are required to pay the required charges listed below for the immediate release of your package. .Upon confirmation of payment, your package will be delivered to your destinated address above under few hours . Outstanding Charges: Administrative .........................RM 1,060.00 Clearance.............................. RM 2,400.00 TOTAL = RM3,860.00  IN  USA DOLLARS ($1,100 USD) A total of RM3,860.00 Three thousand four hundred and sixty Malaysia Ringgit only)has been charge .In acknowledgement to this email, account details shall be provided to you for the payment as stated above for the release of your package. Thank you, as I hope I have made my self clear to you by this notice as directed by the management. For more inquiry call : +[protected] Email: [protected]@live.com.my Present your order number when calling so that we may honour your calls. We are glad to be of service to you. Yours Faithfully. Mr Moritzo Ah mad And mrs noor Azlina South Asia Regional Manager WELCOME TO AIRLINK CARGO COURIER SERVICES Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)