Hello sir I have done a transfer of RS 9991.54 to my coinswitch kuber account using mobiKwik (wallet to bank transfer) on 26th Nov 2021. But the amount is not reflected to my account. I tried to call then from 26th nov to tilldate many time but it is not getting connected. I have even registered a complaint in their help section, But still my problem is not resolved yet. My issue details I have transferred an amount of 9991.54 from my mobiKwik wallet to the coinswich account using wallet to bank transfer mechanism. Since the amount is not credited to my coin switch account, I have tried to contact mobiKwick and coinswitch. But getting connected with mobiKwik is very hard (mobiKwik contact no:[protected]. I contacted coinswtich customer service. Their reply is given below. "Dear Ajnas, Thanks for contacting CoinSwitch Kuber Support. Please accept my apologies for any inconvenience this has caused. I regret to inform you that the transaction of INR that you are referring to did not clear the payment gateway. As per the update from the concerned payment gateway merchant, your refund of INR 9875 with the refund UTR[protected] has been processed successfully. We request you to check your bank statement to track the refund. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any further concerns and we will be happy to assist you. We appreciate your patience in this situation. Thank you for your continuous support and understanding. If you have any more questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. We’ll be delighted to assist you." After receiving this, I checked my account statement, there no transaction of that amount in these dates (from 26 nov to till date). and I even tried to put a ticket to mobiKwik account, But their reply is (they only chat) "Your wallet to bank transfer is successful with RRN number[protected] and the amount has been credited to the beneficiary's account-- " But it is not reflected to my coinswitch account account. So in conclusion, mobiKwik is telling my transfer of money is successful and it is credited to the bank account and coinswitch is telling my transfer did not clear the payment gateway. Till now where did the money go? please help. If the money is transferred to my account then which date did they transfer? If not when I can expect the money in my account. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)