I have already responded to legal back end team stashfin, i am forwarding the same email to you for your actions in this regards, please go through the important contents of the email . Subject of the email : StashFin Demand Notice 1 Under Customer ID No.6605982..your allegations are frivolous .fake and the contact numbers you have provided are not working. Are fake may be numbes belong to ur collection recovery agent . And don't belong to your legal advisor advocate to discuss further.stop sending such kind of threatening letters to me to recover ur small amount of dues not crores of rupees will spoil your reputation in such a way .i can forward this matter to rbi I also have my legal rights .i can also lodge a complaint against u for mental physical harassment and charging frivolous interest and penalty . please be aware .keep ur self aware with rbi recovery guidelines email subject :Your this months emi was due on 2/6/22 .today is 17/6/22 .your emi due till that date was 7092 rs approx .in fifteen days time you are charging 8297 rs . including emi bounced ? .more than 1300 rs extra u r charging ? There has been a obituary in my house that's why I was not able to pay my emi this time .u can see my payment history i have always paid my emi including ur penalty bouncing charges . Only this time my emi was not deposited in the loan account .u feel so low that u started sending fake legal notice to me to do all sorts of illegal practices to recover ur petty amount of dues !and are charging more than rs 1200 for delay of lest than a month even !you have all types of rights as i[censored] have purchased me by giving me a small amount of loan and i am your slave .u can now do any thing with me you want or feel like ..there is no law no process nothing ? Please be informed that i can only settle the dues including next month emi till 6/7/22 . I already raised my voice earlier that i am not comfortable to pay the emi on 2 nd date of every month but u didn't listen me . because your firm is not a customer friendly firm it's policies services are against the law against RBI policies . I will have to write to Google to remove ur app from its platform from where customers fall prey to ur honey trap and your Google play Store rates will go down i keep seeing negative reviews regarding ur customer care deeds mal practices with customers . I will have to write to rbi through its different channels to take action against ur chit fund private low rated firm .faking and harassing it's customers in such a way . Stop calling and sending me such kind of messages letters .i also have my legal fundamental rights.as you have . Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)