In today's date more than 15-20 lakh has been gone in the name of fake marriage, family planning, love commitment whereas this man Sublendu Prakash Diwakar aka Sunny is married to neha prakash and has a son. On 2nd Jan 2026 he was on a family trip Amari, Phuket. His entire family is involved in this scam who showcase him as a single unmarried man. His father Om prakash Diwakar his mother Savita Diwakar his brother Nirmalendu Prakash Diwakar his wife Neha Prakash and the whole diwakar family from Patna is involved in scamming me, ruining my entire life.This post is for the girls who can be their next target. They will show you luxury car, luxury jwellery shopping in south ex showroom including tanishq, Orra for the wedding preparations multiple clothes gifts but at the end you will realise it's a scam and you will be suicidal or who knows these people will murder you. These high profile people are running scam. Savita Diwakar mother, Father Om prakash diwakar is an acs officer involved in Fodder scam patna, Sublendu prakash diwakar aka Sunny is a senior resident Doctor in AIIMS, wife Neha prakash is VP in DCB Bank Delhi and his brother Nirmalendu Prakash Diwakar is running a gym, own a bmw x3 and has a PhD degree, was working in Bangalore. In the name of fake marriage commitment Sublendu his wife Neha and the entire family conned me. I am getting threatening over call to shame me in society, workplace and many more blackmailing, emotional manipulation. He is a Rapist who is out on bail for which he feels proud and posted in Google about the judgement. My all savings are zero today, I RUINED 6 yrs of my life and unmarried, my mental health is drained, living with constant Trauma, Anxiety, Suicidal thoughts, insecurity. And this fraud husband wife enjoying new year 2026 in PHUKET. Witness of this Scam: 1. Casa Woodstock Greater Noida - Flat D 2003 owner Shazia and Bilal 2. Ratan pearls greater Noida West Flat D 1203 owner Kishan Gupta 3. Pachouli Elite noida Registration Dec 2023 4. Bijay Prakash Diwakar 5. Abhishek Srivastava his best friend 6. Puneeta his ex gf and one of the victim 7. Neha's DCB Bank colleague name hidden He took advantage of not having a father and gained trust in the name of marriage. He took me to patna in 2023 Sep to meet his fraud family and visited multiple venue for marriage on 4th Sep 2023 and 5th Sep 2023 Chanakya, maurya, patna club and many more. Be aware of these Bihari Goon Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)