I have a HDFC Life ULIP plan, for that I got a call on Early March asking that sir I'm from HDFC life & wanted to check you have our policy since last 5 years, do have any issue, any difficulties in that policy or are you getting updates of investment from time to time, I told that my funds are not increasing as it should be (as I have push 75k & currently it is sitting on 90k only) & told that I don't get any call, I have to login and check manually, executive said that he will put your request in complaint dept & somebody will look into that. Next day I got a call from person name 'AJIT RANA, Mobile no. [protected] and he said he is from complaint dept & got my complaint and he has all my detail (my personal details to policy every single details, where I thought if he has all my detail he is definately from HDFC) and he said " I can see the agent code is in the policy due to which your deduction charges are more as it is the commission of agent & it is around 40k-45k" when I asked how it can be eliminated than he told that he can't help but a government body GBIC ( Government Body of Insurance Council) can help which have 20 plus insurance company control to look complaint, and ask if i says yes, he can put a complaint on behalf on me. I said yes & that person gave me a complaint no. as well (HDFC02266 - something like this) & told me that I will get a call from GBIC in next 24-48 hour. Next day (06March2021)I got a call person name Rajiv Malhotra saying I'm Central Govt employee and from GBIC & got my complaint, he also have all my detail (that convinced my that he is authorized) and after having a long discussion he told me that if you are dissatisfied with any of insurance company you can move your policy like like you port the sim & said that there is a insurance act section 64 (c) & told that he will put a request to grievance team but then agent will also get notification and he will put reqest to withdraw his commission of 42k & to prevent that what you have to do is you have to purchase a new policy from any of the ICICI Lombard, Aviva or Reliance, what he will do is he will freeze my current HDFC Policy and after completing 5 year lockin period (in Nov'21) & will transfer that 42k commission agent to new policy. I told him that I will think of new policy in a day or 2 but you put request in grievance, he said Ok and 4 hour after that call, I got a call from [protected], he was saying that I"m your agent and you put grievance request & my 42000 stuck, if you can't keep running you policy why did you take & started abusing & said that I will take my commission and you will not be able to do anything. when he abused me, I also abused him (tit for tat). but somewhere in my mind I was convience that this is action of Rajiv complaint and after that I connect with him and ask what to do next, he said to take me any policy & rest he will take care, per his suggestion & lockin period, I took Aviva dhan smuridhi yojna, Yearly premium 57500 (including GST), He gave me proposal number and said that we are not fraud, you do payment for that privded proposal no. on Aviva site only so you can be assure that there is no fraud. he also asked me to share the aviva msg i got after making a payment . I send that same. but after discussion wtih one fried when next day I called the HDFC Life for better understanding what kind of Agent commission they are taking & try to track my complaint. there was not a single complaint of any of the above information. then I called that Rajiv Malhotra and said that I don't want to take any aviva policy and don't want to freeze my HDFC policy, he said Ok as you wish & after call disconnect, I connect with Aviva Helpline no and they said if you don't want to take policy, just drop mail to their team with proposal no. and after dropping mail, My money came back withing 4-5 day. Really thankful to my friend but Ajit Rana & Rajiv Malhotra (saying he is central employee with GBIC) are roaming around making other people fool and pushing insurance policy to them (even if they don't need). I want to complaint how they get all my personal and policy information even when I took policy, every details) there is definitely companies involve in selling data even after having data protection clause. companies are resolve for this data leak (not a single person but a bigger group). Please take action on these people who making fool the public and put some kind of hefty fine for data leak and the mental harassments i had for those 5-7 days Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (7)