I ordered Realme Buds Air 3 (Starry Blue) on 13th July 2022 and it got delivered on 18th July 2022 and placed a return request for the same on 18th july 2022 as it had a lot of scratches on the case which made it obvious that is was a used one. I received a mail from flipkart stating as follows:- "We are writing to you about your recent order for the realme Buds Air 3 with Fast Charge & Active Noise Cancellation (ANC) Bluetooth Headset. Wed like to let you know that your request for a replacement cannot be fulfilled by the seller as the courier service provider has confirmed delivery of the item with the product being intact. In case you're in disagreement with the seller's decision, please share the below details as an attachment within 48 Hrs so we can look into this further and reach you. Proof of Identity (Scanned copy/clear photo of any one of the following). Please ensure the details on the ID card are same as on your Flipkart [account/order]: o Aadhaar card o Voter Card o Driving License Here are a few tips to ensure a clear photo of the ID card: - Place the ID on a dark surface - Use sufficient, natural lighting instead of a flash. It's best if the photo is taken during the daytime- Take photo as directly above the ID as possible. Please ensure that your shadow does not cover your ID - All four edges of your ID should be visible within the image - All details on ID should be clear & eligible" I agree to provide them all the product related documents they asked but I object to provide them with my ID proof. Moreover they say "We will be validating the ID proof shared by you through a third-party service provider." I totally object to this condition. As a normal common person, I am also worried about my confidential documents. I don't want there should be misuse of my personal information by giving to flipkart or other third parties. I agree to show my ID to their delivery/pickup agent in person. I see no relevance of it in return of the product and my ID proof. They were sure the purchase was made by me while payment was done and order was delivered but suddenly at time of return and refund they need to verify me. It's an absurd condition. The delivery and pick up address are same and money will be credited to same account from where it was deducted. I complained the same issue to flipkart customer care but they failed to explain me the necessity o[censored]ploading ID proof and couldn't solve the issue from their end. All they say is " this is the process else your return request will not be accepted" . I would like to mention there was no such condition in their return policy. Since I disagree to their illogical condition they are not processing the return request forward. Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (6)