SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Maharashtra govt pushes bike taxis off streets, no new permits for auto rickshaws, app-based taxis
AUTHOR: Kasturi Walimbe
DATE: 2026-03-09
URL: https://theprint.in/india/maharashtra-govt-pushes-bike-taxis-off-streets-no-new-permits-for-auto-rickshaws-app-based-taxis/2874236/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Mumbai:
On Monday, the Maharashtra government suspended new permits for auto rickshaws and app-based taxis, and app-based bikes have been completely halted. This is to deal with the heavy congestion on Mumbai’s streets.
Transport Minister Pratap Sarnaik told the press that there were several irregularities in the allocation of permits in the past and concerns had been flagged by authorities.
Sarnaik stated that the permits were originally provided as means of livelihood for the economically weaker section in the state, enabling individuals to purchase vehicles and earn a living. However, this had led to a surge in the number of rickshaws and taxis on the streets, particularly in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and other urban areas.
Show Full Article
“In Maharashtra, almost 14 lakh permits for auto rickshaw have been given till date. This led to rise in complaints of traffic congestions and pollution in the MMR region and other urban cities,” Sarnaik told the media. “A lot of individuals from the auto rickshaw associations came to me with complaints about the livelihood of rickshaw drivers as a result of the surge in permits,” he added.
Sarnaik estimated that his department received about five to 50 permit requests every day and now granting of permits will be temporarily suspended. “From today, on our website and the 60 RTOs that we have informed, we have temporarily suspended permits for rickshaws,” he told the press. He further stated that the issue has been taken to Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways and a final decision is pending.
“I had a meeting with Nitin Gadkari, the Minister of Transport. I had sent a letter to the central government and asked them to take a decision on auto rickshaw drivers,” Sarnaik said.
Sarnaik also cited law-and-order concerns while explaining the decision to halt the issuance of new permits. The information received from the police suggested that in some cases permits had allegedly been obtained by individuals involved in criminal activities, he said.
Complaints had been received about incidents such as theft and other offences involving rickshaws operating on city roads. “Many incidents are happening. Many complaints have been lodged at police stations,” Sarnaik said.
He further stated that during verification in certain cases, individuals suspected to be illegal migrants from Bangladesh were found to be in possession of valid transport permits and identity documents such as Aadhaar cards. “At some places, the Bangladeshi police have caught them. Later, we came to know that the Bangladeshis have a permit from the state government, they have an Aadhaar card,” Sarnaik claimed.
He further went on to say, “As the head of the RTO and our department, we have cancelled all their permits. We have cancelled their licence. The police will do their enquiry.”
The state government has also suspended app-based bike taxi operations run by companies such as Ola, Uber and Rapido. Sarnaik said that although the government had earlier allowed electric bike taxis on a pilot basis to promote cleaner mobility, he claimed that several operators allegedly violated the conditions by sending petrol bikes or operating without proper documentation.
A committee convened by state leaders reviewed the situation and recommended revoking the permissions granted to such services. As a result, licences issued for bike taxi operations have been withdrawn for now. Sarnaik said the suspension is temporary and that companies may be allowed to operate again in the future if they comply with regulations, including the use of electric vehicles and proper documentation.
“In Maharashtra, the state government had given permission to use electric bikes on a temporary basis for a month. But companies like Ola, Uber and Rapido have misused it. From today, the licences that were given to Ola, Uber and Rapido have to be revoked. But it is only temporary. If they follow our norms and the terms and conditions of the permits, we will give the permits again,” Sarnaik said.
(Edited by Viny Mishra)
Also read:
Surge pricing curbs, mandatory rest for drivers: Maharashtra draft rules for app-based cab aggregators