The CEO Flipkart Whereas the undersigned on 23rd September, 2022 has placed an Online order with your Company for 7 Items from Grocery Basket for Rs 1, 811/- which amount in a fraction of second was debited from my Account and credited to your Account with an intimation that the same would be delivered by 26th September, 2022. In the morning of 26th September, 2022 message was received that the Order will be shipped soon and will be delivered on that very date. However to my utter shock and surprise at 3.27 P.M, I received the following message; " Order will be returned since order was not accepted during delivery." I immediately wrote back that above message is absolutely false as the same was not delivered, so the question of 'Non Acceptance "does not arise at all. I asked for name of the Delivery Man who came to deliver and also to inform me the name of person who did not accept the delivery. Till now, these relevant information has not been furnished. Be that as it may, thereafter another false story has been propounded by your Company, as at 4.28 P M. on 26th September, 2022 the undersigned got the following message ; " Flipkart cancelled as Couriers could not deliver to your Address." Admittedly, both the above messages contradict each other. In order after having accepting the Cost of Groceries in Advance, you have chosen not to supply the Goods to the Consumer without any Justifiable reason and your Company has been using the Consumer's money for its benefits, which amounts to "Unfair Trade Practices and als Deficiency in Services." Moreover, it would also amount to Fraud and Cheating under Indian Penal Code of 1860 when false and concocted messages have been sent within a span of one hour. Further, the undersigned reserve the right to inform all the Companies about Unfair Trade Practices being indulged by your Company in not supplying their Goods after accepting the Cost in Advance, to the Consumer's. So, the undersigned hereby call upon you to intimate the reason as to why the order was cancelled. In the meantime though the Refund has been received but you are required to suitably Compensate the undersigned for Mental Agony and sufferings caused due to illegal cancellation of the order. Also take note, that in case the issues are not resolved to the satisfaction of the undersigned, then the undersigned will delete your App and will issue Advisory to all its Accuintances ; " Do Online shopping with any Company but Never with FlipKart." Justice V B Gupta (Former Judge High Court of Delhi and Former Judicial Member National Consumer Commission) B-59 FRIENDS COLONY ( WEST) Mathura Road, New Delhi. 110065.