Everybody out there, please be aware of this guy who is using [protected]@hotmail.co.uk, [protected]@hotmail.co.uk, [protected]@hotmail.co.uk and more recently [protected]@hotmail.co.uk on shaadi.com The two phone numbers he tends to use are [protected] and [protected]. His claims relating to his qualifications, background etc are all fake and lives on housing benefit while claiming to be a property tycoon, barrister, legal assistant etc etc etc. He is quite persuasive and persistent in his sexual advances and is ready to visit his victims at their private residences late at night for sexual gratification. The saga continues. He claims that he owns a restaurant in Chelsea called Nawwab, The Indian Prince etc etc . Here is a picture of him too.... he is currently disqualified from driving but continues to break the law by driving. Has CCJs on him and was sacked from the only job he had as a shelf stacker in Waitrose for stealing and Fraudulent transactions. Claims to have business in USA and apartments in India Mumbai.In USA he was working in a shop illegally and was deported with his brother called Sunil and his wife some years ago. In india he has no properties...The places (India, Marbella, Morocco, Turkey) he claims to have visited are either with other women who he has managed to scam out of their respect and money both. Brother Sunil Patel is a Bus Driver and other brother has been made redundant. He claims to do his shopping in Harrods while, in fact, he is sending lewd messages to several women at the same time. The names of the women he has conned are not being published to maintain their privacy.....Pretends that he has no time on his hands and is busy in meetings..and has an office. These are all BIG TIME LIES....TO IMPRESS WOMEN..Anyone who believes him, please ask to be escorted to his offices and meetings and ask to prove his credentail, his so called work committments.. Has a son maned Vivek Patel..who is taking the lessons from him in ARTFUL MANIPULATION of ALL SEXES.... Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)