SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Working with Eric Dane was an honour, says Euphoria creator. Fans recall ‘McSteamy’
AUTHOR: Insha Jalil Waziri
DATE: 2026-02-20
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/eric-dane-death-fans-mcsteamy/2859330/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
American actor Eric Dane, 53, has died following a battle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In April 2025, Dane revealed that he was diagnosed with
the disease
and had started experiencing early symptoms of deterioration. In an interview with
Good Morning America
in June,
he
revealed that he only had “one functioning arm”.
“With heavy hearts, we share that Eric Dane passed on Thursday afternoon following a courageous battle with ALS,
” read the statement by his family. “
He spent his final days surrounded by dear friends, his devoted wife, and his two beautiful daughters, Billie and Georgia, who were the centre of his world.”
The statement highlighted Dane’s efforts to raise awareness about the motor neurone disease (MND)
, adding that
he was “determined to make a difference for others facing the same fight”.
Show Full Article
Born in San Francisco, California, Dane was best known for his role as Dr Mark Sloan in ABC’s
Grey’s Anatomy
. F
ans
of the show gave him
the moniker “McSteamy”. His latest role was as Cal Jacobs in
HBO’
s
Euphoria
.
Dane started his journey in Hollywood by playing small roles in television series such as
Saved by the Bell
,
The Wonder Years
, and
Charmed
. He made his film debut in the 2000 feature film,
The Basket
, directed by Rich Cowan. He also appeared in films such as
X-Men: The Last Stand
,
Valentine’s Day
, and
Wedding Wars
.
He married actor Rebecca Gayheart in 2004. He is survived by his two daughters, who
se custody
he shared with Gayheart.
Following the news of his death, social media
w
as flooded with posts remembering the actor. Dane’s
Grey’s Anatomy
co-star Kevin McKidd shared a picture of
him
as McSteamy
on his Instagram story
with the caption “Rest in Peace, Buddy”.
“I’m heartbroken by the loss of our dear friend Eric. Working with him was an honour. Being his friend was a gift,”
Euphoria
creator Sam Levinson told
Deadline
.
Several fan edits of the actor in his most memorable roles have also been making the rounds on social media. “Eric Dane wasn’t just a familiar face on our screens, he felt like someone we grew up watching,”
o
ne X user
posted
.
For
another
, it was hard to articulate the sadness.
“Eric Dane had a way of lighting up the screen without even trying,”
read the post.
Also read:
Graffiti meets diplomacy on walls of Lodhi Art District. India-Spain in Garden of Encounters
Struggle with ALS
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (
ALS
)
is
a progressive neurodegenerative disease that destroys motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Over time, the
patient
suffers from muscle weakness, atrophy, and eventual paralysis
. Physicist Stephen Hawking and Stephen Hillenburg, the creator of SpongeBob, also suffered from the disease.
The survival rate for ALS is three to five years, though it may
vary with each specific
case. There is no cure for the disease.
Dane revealed
his diagnosis in an
exclusive interview
with
People Magazine
.
“I am grateful to have my loving family by my side as we navigate this next chapter
,
”
he said.
In his
Good Morning America
interview, Dane said that he would never forget those three letters—ASL—and that they changed everything for him.
“In my heart, I don’t feel like this is the end for me… I’m fighting as much as I can. There’s so much about it that’s out of my control.”
(Edited by Prasanna Bachchhav)