Hi, My name is Thiyagarajan working in a Pvt ltd inc chennai. I purchased 1 giordino watch on 03/08/2012(booking Id-[protected]). On 17-10-12 , I got a call from bag it today representative Mr. Sachin from cell no. [protected] congratulating me for being selected for the lucky draw for their anniverary and informed me that if I pay for 2 bookings costing Rs.5998/- each, I will get a DELL laptop and a BLACKBERRY phone as free gifts. He even showed me the previous winners of such contests on the bag it today site by opening the webpage. Having faith on the company bag it today I made 2 online payments of order number [protected] and [protected] through net banking. I have checked with Sachin for the gifts again and again and he assured me that I will get the package along the delivery of the travel voucher. I recieved call from bag it today landline number[protected] stating that I have booked 2 holidays so a sunglass as gift will be sent to me. When I asked her about the 3 gifts I was assured, she said in negative. Again I contacted Sachin and told wat CSR has told to me. He told its a different department and I will get the assured gifts.I recieved the travel voucher on 26/10/2012 without the gifts. I called sachin again and informed him that I recieved only the voucher. He told that thay kept the gifts on hold to verify my delivery address and now it is confirmed, so the gifts will ship with in 2-5 days. On 05/11/2012, I again called sachin for the status, he told that her will verify with the courier company and get back to me. Again in Tuesday(06/11/2012), I tried to call Saching, but he didnt attended my call. I am still trying, tryinig and trying but am not getting any response. I have the recording of conversation for the gifts with Sachin. Please help in resolving this issue. It really shocked me that there are lot of complaints regarding the same issue. Note: if Sachin is not your rep, then how he knew about my contact details and booking ids. I have the necessary documents for the above issue and recording of conversation for the gifts with Sachin. I want necessary action to be taken, or else I will go the next level.