SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: People across Valley resort to panic buying amid fuel shortage rumours
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-26
URL: https://theprint.in/india/people-across-valley-resort-to-panic-buying-amid-fuel-shortage-rumours/2889221/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Srinagar, Mar 26 (PTI) Petrol pumps across Kashmir witnessed panic buying on Thursday as rumours of fuel shortage amid the West Asia conflict spread, even as authorities assured that sufficient quantities of essential supplies were available, officials said.
People made a beeline for fuel stations in Srinagar city and other parts of the Valley with their vehicles, cans and bottles, leading to serpentine queues.
Many fuel stations were shut and were turning away people, saying that their pumps had run dry.
Show Full Article
In many places, people had to wait for hours altogether to fill up the fuel tanks of their vehicles.
“I had to wait over an hour for my turn as there was a huge rush. But I finally managed to fill petrol in my car,” said Owais Ahmad from Srinagar.
Ahmad said there were rumours that due to the conflict in West Asia, fuel supply was short and there could be a lockdown in the country in the wake of an “energy crisis”.
“Social media is full of such rumours. It has created panic among the people. And whenever there is such a panic, the people of Kashmir turn up at the petrol pumps first,” he said.
A petrol pump owner in Ganderbal district said people were “unnecessarily creating panic” and resorting to panic buying, forcing many fuel stations to call it a day.
“There is no supply shortage. There is sufficient fuel, but we had to close the pump as there was a huge rush and panic among the public. Some petrol pumps and fuel agencies are limiting the sale to ensure adequate stock,” he said.
The authorities have urged the people to remain calm and not resort to panic buying.
“Sufficient quantity of LPG and petroleum products is available across the Valley. It is being replenished regularly to ensure an uninterrupted supply,” said Kashmir Divisional Commissioner Anshul Garg.
He urged the public not to be swayed by rumours, reiterating that there is no shortage of fuel.
Garg warned of stringent legal action against individuals who spread misinformation or attempt to incite unnecessary panic among the public.
District authorities across the Valley carried out a review of the situation and appealed to people to avoid unnecessary rush at petrol pumps to ensure smooth distribution for all. PTI SSB RUK RUK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.