Hi Team, During the policy Max Life Smart Wealth - Long Term Plan application form processing, I have paid policy premium an amount of 300, 000/- on 11th July but the policy application was not yet completed but on the same day I have requested them to cancel the policy after they received the payment and refund the amount due to personal commitments. They said money should be in a sundry account until the policy number gets generated. I was contacted agent Laxmi (code 791097 ) from one of the Sai maha parayan group and she said that for the policy cancellation, once application is fully completed and generates the policy number[protected] then only cancel the policy and hide the many crucial free look period terms from me. When I called for the cancellation, she misbehaved with me rudely on whatsapp. After generating the policy, I again reminded them to cancel the policy and refund the payment on 3rd Aug. Max life agent Laxmi has not yet informed about the free look period and when we asked them about the cancellation, they said on 3rd august, refund is in process and try to settle as soon as possible. We kept chasing agent's line manager Ketan about this on 7th August but he didn't respond. On 11th Aug, Ketan's line manager Mahesh Chaudhary called me on whatsapp and had a discussion about the cancellation policy, he also hid the free look period terms from me. He requested to confirm the policy within two days time whether keeping or cancelling. After a couple of hours, I sent him a message on whatsapp to cancel the policy and refund the amount. He did not inform us about the free look period terms and conditions to us as well. They informed us we can't cancel the policy because of the free look period over which we were not aware when the free look period ended. But during the free look period, keep on asking three of them for the cancellation and I have proof on whatsapp chat. On 11th august we informed Laxmi's 2nd level manager Mahesh for the cancellation but they didn't take any action for the cancellation. I think it is very very unfair and I am putting it here as my final resort and hope to get my hard earned money back. For 3 months they keep on postponing and prolonging the matter. None of the max life staff members were didn't informed about the free look period for the cancellation. Covid and many things severely affected my finances. From day one I keep asking for the cancellation and refund the payment. Without any of our written confirmation they have forwarded data to head office. Now they are saying I have two options whether to continue the policy and pay for the next 10 year or pay for the next two years and cancel after the 3rd year payment which is not affordable for me in this current situation. Please look into this matter and resolve the issue at the earliest. I have attached screen shots from the agent/manager communication via whatsapp.