SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: BJP, Humayun Kabir’s party seeking votes in name of religion, creating rift in society: Abhishek
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-29
URL: https://theprint.in/india/bjp-humayun-kabirs-party-seeking-votes-in-name-of-religion-creating-rift-in-society-abhishek/2891570/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Kolkata, Mar 29 (PTI) Senior TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday accused the BJP and Humayun Kabir’s Aam Janata Unnayan Party of seeking votes in the name of religion while ignoring basic issues such as livelihood and food.
Addressing a rally in support of the TMC candidate in Naoda Assembly constituency in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district, the TMC national general secretary alleged that while the BJP was doing “temple politics”, Kabir was indulging in “masjid politics”, neglecting issues like development and employment.
“In Murshidabad, while BJP is conspiring to foment riots during Ram Navami processions, Kabir is misleading people in the name of laying the foundation stone of a mosque named after Babri Masjid,” he said.
Show Full Article
Vowing that he and others would practise religion privately, Banerjee said, “Those who seek votes in the name of mandir or masjid are politically, morally and ideologically bankrupt.” Banerjee claimed that Kabir, who was suspended by the TMC, had a tacit understanding with the BJP leadership and lacked concern for the Muslim community.
Referring to clashes in Raghunathganj and Jangipur during Ram Navami processions on March 27, he said, “For peace-loving people, Ram symbolises restraint and sacrifice. But those in BJP’s Ram Navami rallies were seen brandishing swords and consuming liquor openly, which goes against the spirit of true religion.
“It was these people who later vandalised shops and went on a looting spree. How can they claim to be true devotees of Lord Ram?” he asked.
Accusing the BJP of engineering violence ahead of the elections, Banerjee said, “After reshuffling top administrative and police officials through the Election Commission, the BJP is now trying to influence key posts such as DGP, IG, SPs, Chief Secretary and Home Secretary to foment unrest.” Underscoring Bengal’s tradition of communal harmony, he said, “We celebrate Durga Puja, Eid, Christmas, Chhath and Kali Puja-Diwali together without incident. Why does violence break out only during Ram Navami celebrations involving BJP workers? Bengal will always protect its tradition of harmony.” Claiming that neither Kabir nor Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had raised concerns over alleged harassment of voters during the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls, Banerjee said, “Only the TMC, led by our supremo Mamata Banerjee, took up the issue with the Election Commission and sought an explanation.” “I cannot recall any such representation by Adhir Chowdhury or Humayun Kabir. This shows their lack of concern for lakhs of genuine voters whose names are missing from the final list,” he added.
He further alleged that 27 people died in Murshidabad due to stress and panic linked to the SIR exercise. “But none except the TMC took up their cause,” he said.
Banerjee challenged Kabir and Chowdhury to give up their central security cover if they truly wanted to fight for people’s rights. “Within 24 hours, the state government will arrange your security,” he said.
Alleging a nexus between Kabir, Chowdhury and the BJP, Banerjee said, “While I have been summoned repeatedly by central agencies over false corruption charges, people like Kabir have never been touched. There must be some setting.” Issuing a warning to dissenters within the party, Banerjee said any TMC leader in Murshidabad maintaining political links with Kabir should remain loyal to the party.
“Work for the party and be loyal to the jersey you are wearing, or face the red card,” he said.
“If anyone is dissatisfied with the candidate, then think that I, Abhishek Banerjee, am contesting from here,” he added.
His remarks come amid protests by a section of TMC workers in the constituency against sitting MLA Sahina Mumtaz Begum, alleging that she has failed to deliver during her tenure. PTI SUS MNB
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.