SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Andhra govt asks officials to speed up ‘PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana’, RDSS works
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/india/andhra-govt-asks-officials-to-speed-up-pm-surya-ghar-muft-bijli-yojana-rdss-works/2890649/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Amaravati, Mar 27 (PTI) Andhra Pradesh Energy Minister Gottipati Ravi Kumar on Friday directed officials to expedite implementation of ‘PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana’ and RDSS across the state.
During a teleconference with Chairmen and Managing Directors (CMDs) of power distribution companies (DISCOMs) and senior officials, the minister reviewed progress of key power sector projects.
“Officials should speed up ‘PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana’, Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) works. There is a need to take up works on a war footing and ensure targets are achieved within the stipulated timeframe without any delays,” Kumar said in an official release.
Show Full Article
‘PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana’ aims to light up one crore households by providing up to 300 units of free electricity every month.
Kumar instructed officials to prioritise providing free solar power to Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) categories under the PM Surya Ghar scheme.
The minister set a target of completing at least 2,000 solar connections per constituency between the birth anniversaries of Babu Jagjivan Ram and BR Ambedkar.
On the agriculture front, he ordered immediate clearance of all pending electricity connections ahead of the upcoming farming season.
He reiterated the state government’s commitment to supporting farmers and ensuring uninterrupted power supply by strengthening electrical infrastructure.
Kumar said the NDA government would bear electricity charges to ensure no additional financial burden on people.
He urged field-level engineers and staff to work with renewed vigour and coordination to improve service delivery.
The minister noted that efficient implementation of projects would enhance the department’s reputation while providing relief to the public. PTI MS KH
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.