HUMAN RESOURCE PERSONNEL EMPLOYER MR RICHARD BEN SHERATON PARK TOWER HOTEL UK LONDON 101 Knights bridge - London SW1X 7RN, England, United Kingdom. Attn: SRINIVASAN VIJAYAKUMAR, N/B Contact the Barrister Mark Tommy of global travel agent (London) if you accept the terms below and attached. This is an Affirmation that you have emerged successfully and being appointed in our company. Sheraton Park Tower Hotel, London, England. The mode of selection was based on the following; 1. CV and qualification 2. Mode in which your data is being presented on the employment data Sheet. 3. Work experiences. We employ staff based on four core values namely Productivity, Talent, Ambitions and Character and we expect all our staff to exhibit these core values. Also we ensure that all our staff especially our International employees are comfortable. Attached herewith is your 1.Appointment 2.Terms of agreement You are to contact the our official travel agency via email here in UK for a valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee IMMEDIATELY so as to enable you live and work in UK legally. Due to International Financial Fraud/Money Laundering the Sheraton Park Tower Hotel encountered last year from international Employees, The Internation Financial Intelligence Unit, (NFIU) London, made it Mandatory for all potential intentional company Employees to submit to us a valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee from a credible Attorney here in London. Upon the submission of the valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Guarantee. With confirmation of your Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee here in London, Sheraton Park Tower Hotel London, England will procure your flight ticket (Travel Document) before the stated date of your appointment with the Sheraton Park Tower Hotel London. This ensures that any foreign Expatriate that is coming to work with Sheraton Park Tower Hotel London will not involve in Fraud/Money Laundering within or outside the company on getting to the UNITED KINGDOM. You are required to contact the Barr. Mark Tommy of Global travel agent (London) to assist you procure a valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee that must be presented to us within one week of receipt of this offer letter so that we would commence the processing of your travel documents and also be rest Assured that you will not involve in International Financial Fraud/Money Laundering in London as others did. Barr. Mark Tommy whom you are to contact immediately to obtain a valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee immediately bellow is their contact: BARRISTER. MARK TOMMY TOURISM/VISA PROCESS DIRECTOR Global Travels Limited 56 Yorkshire Avenue - Lancashire GB0098 Manchester - London. TEL: [protected] Fax:[protected] Web:www.globaltravelagent-uk.org Email:[protected]@yahoo.co.uk Email:[protected]@globaltravels-agency-inc.co.uk.tc Note that failure to provide the Valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee within the Stipulated time would mean an automatic termination of your Appointment with Sheraton Park Tower Hotel London. You are required to sign the Terms of Agreement and after that you have to send one copy back to us and one copy to the GLOBAL TRAVEL AGENCY, so that they will start the preparation of your Valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee, which shows that you are ready to join the team. Once we confirm your Valid Authorization Work-Permit/Employment Document Guarantee from the GLOBAL TRAVEL AGENCY, which stipulates that you are ready to join the team, we will take care of your traveling documents together with your flight ticket and any money which you spend in the procurement of your UK Valid papers will be reimbursed to you during your first 2 months upfront salary. We hereby once more congratulate you on the success of your application amongst many that have applied and thereby instruct you to expedite all requirements as aforementioned so as to be able to meet the team before the deadline. Do get back to us with developments and updates regarding the procurement of your valid work-permit. Congratulations! Mr. Richard Ben Human Resource Personnel Email:[protected]@yahoo.co.uk Tel: [protected] Tel: [protected] Fax :[protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)