Doves Vacation (DV), a part of Leisure and Hospitality sector of the ANWAY INNOVENTURES LIMITED (AIL), AIL is a public limited company in force since 2010, having its registered office in Pune, Maharashtra – INDIA They are still using old, frivolous method of sales by cold calling people from eminent hotels stating a table is reserved We were invited on 31st October 2022 in Vivant Miramar Goa stating a table is reserved for us and entire family is invited. There were multiple calls by their marketing and sales team to lure us with attractive travel schemes. As people who love to travel we thought of checking these people out. They kept us waiting and asked us to fill a form, post that invited us over a table and kept giving presentation, showing videos, showed how Doves is connected with Anway Innoventures, how they have international ties up and gave us a lot of false information. They showed few videos as well. There after their senior came in for a final it and acted as if they are doing us a big favour. AT that time, due to the envrionment created and music and announcments we got lured and paid 89999 in advance. When we evaluated it was a big scam. The membership was not needed to get the vacation trip they promised. It was all waste. We decided to apply for refund the next day. But they kept pushing back at us for new schemes. We mailed their directors Praveen Tonger, Manshi Shah and few more but so the request went on to deaf ears. They themselves have a policy of full refund within 90 days provided we request for this within 7 days but unlike anything they processed everything and started calling us for more money to be paid. Its more than 90 days now and no sign of refund. This amounts to cheating and fraud. We ned to act against such fraudsters and enlighten all the senior citizens, needy who fall in these traps at the earliest. These smarties need to be taught a lesson so that they don't repeat these things with innocent citizens. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (14)