Beware of Fraudulent/Fake Profile - Gireesh Kumar (E2187678) in Bharat matrimony We hereby bring to your notice a fraudulent and fake profile in the name of GIREESH KUMAR son of PN Mohan & Geetha Mohan in a reputed wedding site Bharat Matrimonial and also many other social sites such as Linked in etc. We have had a very bad experience with him & his family through this matrimonial site where he highlighted or rather faked his education background as B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering from Jyothi Engg college Trissur, Kerala. But After educational and background verification it was found that he was not at all a student of the mentioned engineering college. From the relatives and neighborhood in Kerala we got to know that he was just a 12th pass (no evidence against this even) and also had some criminal records against him. He has one elder brother who is married and has a 3 year old kid and on the verge of getting divorce and the reason was domestic violence by her in laws back in Bahrain because of which she had to move to Kerala with the kid. They don't have even a single piece of property in India (Pattanamthitta, Kalanjoor) and boasted that they are in process of buying a property near guruvayoor but the fact is that they sold all their property to save their business in Bahrain inspite of which the business is not a success and running into loss. He has casted himself as Manager of his own company Ultra NDT in Bahrain which is not a big deal. Now if you guys check his profile you will see a different educational background saying that he has done his Engineering from Delhi and also did his MBA from IGNOU. We have captured the evidences of this and attaching the same along with this Compaint. Those you are reading this please don't blindly fall for the profiles posted on the matrimony site as they are not being verified or validated by the site authorities. Please do a complete research on the person before hand to avoid getting trapped by such fraud people. Request Bharat Matrimony staffs to verify alteast the educational background before accepting such profile registration. matrimonial profile= http://profile.keralamatrimony.com/profiledetail/viewprofile.php?id=E2187678 Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)