SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Iran war is disrupting India’s summer plans. Tourists shifting from West to Vietnam, Japan
AUTHOR: Anushka Srivastava
DATE: 2026-03-24
URL: https://theprint.in/feature/iran-war-indian-tourists-europe-vietnam-japan/2887505/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

New Delhi:
The US-Israeli war on Iran
has disrupted key transit hubs in the Middle East, leaving thousands of Indian tourists
under
a cloud of uncertainty.
“There has been a decline in bookings to the Middle East, mainly due to safety concerns, airspace uncertainties, and possible travel disruptions,” said Alok K Singh, CEO of SNVA Travel Tech (Travomint)
. While he called
it a behavioural pivot rather than a slowdown
, h
e added that Europe has
also
taken a huge hit as many routes depend on Middle Eastern transit hubs.
“About 15-20 per cent of bookings to the Middle East and Europe have already been cancelled, and the rest have put their May plans on hold,” Ravi Gosin, President of the Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO), told ThePrint.
Show Full Article
Families are rerouting travel plans away from the cobbled streets of Europe and the sun lounges of the Middle East.
They’re now eyeing
destinations that were previously less popular.
“
[About 1 million]
tourists have shifted to Southeast Asia… The decline is 100 per cent in the Middle East, and Europe has also seen a 20-30 per cent drop,” said Subash Goyal, former IATO
p
resident.
On platforms
such as
Reddit
and X, travellers are weighing safety against cancellation
costs
. One user who had
planned
a Switzerland-Dubai trip in
early April wrote about being “very unsure of going”, adding that without insurance, they might simply lose their money. Another traveller, with
a departure on 1
April looming, said they were waiting it out in the hope of a full refund, even as hotels offered free cancellations.
“Since this is a vacation and, fortunately, all of the hotels offer free cancellation, I am also planning to cancel the flight
,
”
read the comment.
Drop in hotel rates
All that glitters in Dubai
and
Abu Dhabi is suddenly struggling to hold its shine.
R
ooms at Mercure Abu Dhabi
Downtown
and TRYP by Wyndham Abu Dhabi are now going for roughly $50-
$
60 a night, while five-star properties
such as
Rixos Marina Abu Dhabi and The Ritz-Carlton Abu Dhabi have
seen rates dropping
to
about
$200.
Dusit Thani Dubai, one of the
city’s
leading hotel chains, has started listing its rooms from $95, while rooms at Pullman Jumeirah Lakes Towers Hotel & Residence are listed
at
around $90.
But these incentives are not enough. Row after row of beach umbrellas remains folded shut, stretching across lines of empty sunbeds.
“No one will risk their life by saving their money,”
Goyal
said bluntly. “Give as much incentive as you want… the hotels are vacant there.”
The decline is significant, given that
government data
shows the United Arab Emirates
was
the top destination
for Indians
in 2024
,
with about 7.8 million visitors
:
25.2
per cent
of
the
total
number. It was
followed by Saudi Arabia
,
with 3.4 million travellers that year.
With major Middle Eastern carriers and transit hubs thrown into uncertainty, the traditional routes that connected India to Europe and the United States have become fragmented.
As per a
Times of India
report
, Air India’s non-stop Delhi-London flight, once clocking in at around eight hours when key airspaces were open, now takes over 12 hours as carriers are forced to take longer, busier, circuitous routes.
Also read:
Iran’s consulates have meme game in war with US. They’re sneaky, funny, and target Trump
Vietnam is the new favourite
The sad reality is that the world has grown accustomed to the anxieties of war.
“In the past, we have observed that during region-specific disruptions, people don’t give up on their travel plans. Instead, they opt for alternate destinations—either domestic or unaffected international ones. We are seeing the same pattern hold true here,” a MakeMyTrip spokesperson said.
Indian travellers are now choosing destinations that offer stability and smooth connectivity.
“Southeast Asian countries and Indian Ocean destinations are seeing increased demand, along with a renewed interest in domestic travel,” Singh
said
.
According to the data shared by
i
xigo with ThePrint, Vietnam has emerged as the top international destination this month, with a 130 per cent year-on-year surge in bookings. Nepal
ranks second
with an 88 per cent rise,
followed by
Sri Lanka at 68 per cent
.
Indonesia, Singapore, and Thailand
are
also seeing steady growth.
Th
e
change is
facilitated by s
table flight operations, manageable costs, and easy visa processes in several Southeast Asian countries
and those in the Indian subcontinent
.
“Even if the conflict stops and there is a ceasefire, we don’t think that travellers will forget everything immediately and act as if all is normal. This summer season has seen a major shift from the West to the East,”
Nilesh Bhansali, president of the Travel Agents Association of Pune,
told
The Times of India
.
Travel
agencies
are
already recalibrating their approach. They are now nudging clients with higher budgets toward destinations
such as
Japan, South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand. China
is
being positioned as
an
alternative to traditional European itineraries.
According to Goyal, parts of Africa, including Kenya and Ethiopia, are emerging on this radar, driven by growing interest in wildlife and experiential travel.
Things are changing back home, too. As per the data provided by ixigo, domestic leisure travel has seen a boost. Udaipur ha
s
seen a 69
per cent
jump in bookings, followed by Jodhpur at 47
per cent,
Bagdogra at 44
per cent
, and Srinagar at 41
per cent
. Goa, Jammu, and Dehradun are also recording steady growth.
(Edited by Prasanna Bachchhav)