Public is cautioned in dealing with Sureka Forbes a fake and a imitation company to Eureka Forbes. Sureka Forbes has done data theft from Eureka Forbes and using this data is cheating clients and sleeping in the guise of Eureka Forbes. Callers from Eureka will tell that AMC is expired ( though not expired) and gain access to illegal entry to your house. In the pretext of repairing they will replace some item and say faulty and try to extract money. Once you sign AMC or service they are done. No further calls are entertained from you either by engineers or call centre or any numbers of managers directors or any that you have access to. Luckily if you get through they will say our location is across and nonspecific address. The contract receipt at site is given and Invoice receipt never comes to you escaping gst payment receipt and cheating government agencies. I had taken the service after continuous calls finally they disconnect calls saying we will return the money next week but never answers calls subsequently. Employees get their salary which the management throws at them, as they are disgusted and are harsh to customers. I have spoken to multiple persons Avinash Kavitha Navya Kumar Girish etc and also cannot be said about their directors Balaji Udayakumar and Naresh Mahadevan. Who when reached says no where connected with company. Contacts of sureka are[protected] /[protected] /[protected] The engineer who comes to cheat / service[protected] Directors of sureka, managers and employees are all here to cheat and be cautious in dealing with them at any point who are shameless. The company has just completed one year and is established with the sole intention of cheating public. Do not deal with them. Eureka Forbes are much better, established, cheaper, responsible, do the right service. My Contract Receipt no. From Sureka Forbes is 6837. Invoice is yet to be delivered I have lodged complaint for service due to water leakage but neither calls, response to calls, invoice is being delivered Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (3)