A story from a passenger about corruption on Indian Airports. Below is the complaint I filed with the Central Vigilance Commission of India against a corrupt official at the Bangalore International Airport. It was filed on 10th Feb 2008. I have not heard anything from the CVC till date. But, as per their policy (http://www.cvc.nic.in/comp_stat_srch.asp) they take 3 months to generate a report and another 6 months for disciplinary action and another 6 months for imposition of penalty. As of now, I have not received any acknowledgement. ———————————&md... ⇄ Dear Sir/Madam, This is a complaint report against Mr. V. Giridharan - Asst. Customs Officer at Bangalore International Airport and his accomplices. His accomplices at the airport include uniformed customs officials as well as trolley assistants. Here are the complaints against Mr. V. Giridharan: 1. Demanding a bribe from passengers to help them evade customs duty. 2. Harassing passengers who seek to pay the official customs duty and refuse to pay the bribe. 3. Charging customs duty on items that are to be allowed duty-free. Here are the complaints against the trolley assistants that work around the baggage claim area: 1. Forcefully, handling passenger’s baggage without their permissions and causing nuisance to the passengers. 2. Crowding the baggage claim area near the conveyor belt so as to causing inconvenience to the passengers. The detailed complaint and the circumstances are provided below: I arrived at the Bangalore International airport in the first week of January at 840am from San Francisco via Singapore Airlines flight SQ500. I am a professional working in the United States and returning after almost a year. I was carrying with me a brand new Canon Pixma MP210 printer worth Rs. 2800/-. The trolley assistants immediately grabbed my printer from the conveyor without my permissions and pushed me aside to take the printer to the red channel X-Ray. Such behavior by the trolley assistants is condoned by the customs officials and I suspect, is encouraged. I handed over my passport to the customs official (Mr. V. Giridharan) when requested. Mr. Giridharan took one look at the printer and asked me for its value. I told him that the printer is worth US$70 and pointed him to the rate label on the box. Furthermore, I furnished the original purchase receipt for the printer. Mr. Giridharan mentioned that another passenger who had a printer paid him Rs. 700/- and was allowed to go without paying the customs duties and hence I should do the same. I requested that I wish to pay the official customs duty so that I can get a receipt. A noticeably infuriated Mr. Giridharan claimed that he would detain the printer. I insisted that I was not refusing to pay the customs duty but, I would pay money only if I were given an official customs receipt. Mr. Giridharan in turn asked one of his customs officials to frisk all my bags and evaluate if there was anything else to levy a duty on. The other official took an inordinate amount of time get to the bags and instead kept convincing me to just pay up the bribe and proceed out of the airport. A thorough checking of my bags and suitcases revealed that I had no other dutiable items. All this time, my passport was with Mr. Giridharan. He eventually opened up the customs receipt book and wasted time with pointless talk to other people around him while I was patiently waiting to know the duty amount. It was very frustrating for me to have just landed at the airport after a travel of almost 32 hours and having to wait in line for Mr. Giridharan to chit-chat with his fellow officers instead of writing up the receipt. I was able to obtain an official customs receipt after an ordeal of almost 60 minutes since having arrived at the baggage claim. I am shocked, disgusted and humiliated by the blatant corruption by the Customs Officials at the Bangalore International Airport. In fact Mr. Giridharan was pestering a foreign passenger who was waiting in line right after me. Apparently people like Mr. Giridharan have been asking for bribes very openly in front of other passengers and customs officials. In fact, the other customs officials and the trolley assistants seem to be in partnership for the cash cheated out of Government. I request you to take proper punitive actions against Mr. Giridharan. It would be unfair to just complain without providing a few suggestions on how you could help to improve the situation. 1. Please install cameras monitoring the activities of the customs channels and the baggage claim area. That should at the least invoke a fear amongst the officials that their behavior is being monitored and recorded. 2. Provide an area for trolley assistants to line-up and help the passengers *only if* requested. Otherwise, they should not enter the baggage claim area. I have not seen trolley assistants in any other airport in any country except for Bangalore where they roam around with complete authority and harass the passengers. I understand that there is a need for one or two airport employees to set aside unclaimed baggage from the conveyor. But, those employees should be different from the trolley assistants. 3. Put up a public notice at the customs channels with the anti-corruption vigilance officers names, addresses, phone numbers and email ids so that they can be contacted in case of an unruly behavior by the customs officials on duty. It is scary that corrupt officials like Mr. Giridharan who are harassing passengers with demands for bribes are holding the passengers’ passports as well as all other baggage. Please do not hesitate to contact me at <email-address> if you need any further information regarding this case. I will be disclosing this complaint letter to the public this via other channels as well as blogs. Thanks for your attention and hope that we can make Bangalore International Airport better. Best Regards, Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)