Profile id ywvo481 is a criminal fraud. He fraud me. Thi s a fake profile, i have filed a complaint againts him below is the details please delete his profile i have all the proofs with me. This is a complain againts santosh kumar, we get connected thru shaadi.com, he said he is working with brittaniapharma and have a jewellary shop. He proposed me for marriage as i am also looking to get marry so i started talking looking forward to get to know each other and so could decide for marriage. We talked continuously thru whatsapp calls and messages, and accepted the marriage proposal. And have planned for the engagement in september than marriage for november. He showed me so much of love which actually drive me thru. Than he said he is sending me some gifts because of his love, also he shared me the complete courier details so i could track online. Also he said he have sent some cash for our marriage for which i said why u did it i don't need it, he said with love i have sent so their will no issue to arrange everything for our marriage. Than later when i track the courier i found a line mentioned clearance charges by the receiver i immediately asked him, he said its a delivery charges don't worry abt it and than i asked the cost he is not aware of it, so i assume he must be true. Later on friday 24th august i was not well and took a leave in a meanwhile i receive a call from named praveen chauchan who said he is calling from custom office new delhi airport who is a custom broker their, he said me they have received the courier from usa by my name sent by santosh kumar, he said me the clearance charges will be 67500, then i was shocked its a huge amount i called up immediately to santosh he said me please clear it immediately because it has cash for our marriage and all the expensive gifts i said i dont have dat much amount but he kept on requesting and pushing me to clear it as it was carrying cash. So i thot when he is doing so much and love me so much i should clear it for us. Than i went to bank and break my id and paid the broker thru online sbi bank, aditya jain - rs.67500. I even asked the guy why its personal account den he told me because its a private broker so they use their personal account which he shared also said adity jian is his boss. They also took my home address saying anywhere you want we courier the parcel. Also he called and said to me we have received the payment but the parcel will be scanned now den after i will let u know. I was like whats that. After few minutes he called me and said ma'am in the parcel thr is 30k dollars and as per law only 10k dollar is allowed. Then i asked i should i do now, he said me i have to pay the gst amount 3.78lacs for the custom clearance, which made me schoked what the heck is going on. Then i again called up santosh, i said this thing i will not able to made it, he started arguing and resquesting for clearance and more talks. Day over next day @ 9am indian time santosh called me and asked for the parcel whats my plan?? I said him no directly. Than he started behaving normal suddenly also said he will pay day 67500 to me, also at night he called me and said his father has called the custom ppl and resolve it, so he will be taking his flight on thursday 30th august and will reach new delhi on saturday 1st september with the courier receipt to resolve the issue and collect the parcel, also will pay the gst of 30k and also said he will pay my 67500. Than he plan to go with me to my hometown meet my parents than will do the engagement. All was ok so far, and i was little calm down after 3days trauma nd turmaoil. Monday 27th august we talked well and shared love till 3pm indian than suddenly at 4:30pm i saw he blocked me in whatsapp and in the call number +[protected], than i called to his another number +[protected]. After several calls he received my call and pretend to say me he is vikas not santosh but i pushed him so he said me he is not interested anymore and dont want to proceed further but with no reasons. Than i come to the conclusion he was a con to trappe me for money. Than i asked him for my 67500 to pay back he said he will pay me today than he blocked me in that number. Now i am to much into trauma that was my hard earned savings which he have taken way. Also i have been emotional and financial abuse. I have all the proofs. I want my money also want santosh and indian guy who all are helping him to be punished. I have seen santosh again created a new profile in jeevan saathi with a new name d. Kumar, new dob, all fake, he is now looking for new victim. Please help me. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)