Regarding AWB#[protected], the share invoice is not acceptable. I have already raised multiple concerns and escalation on my shipment delay. Started from March 22nd to till date. shawn mbm who taken the order, has not informed about the document required for the consignment, and also done huge mistake with consignee name and shipper name in fedex System. Due to which we have asked multiple questions on clearance. On March 26th I uploaded the Consignee KYC and also shared an update with Fedex Team(sangeetha.[protected]@fedex.com). From 26th March everyday literally, i am sending an email to sangeetha/reaching customer care asking for my shipment update and also all necessary requested documents were shared before 1st week of April. I have all my emails copied (sangeetha.[protected]@fedex.com, [protected]@mail.fedex.com, mohit.[protected]@fedex.com) starting from March 26th 2022. Sangeetha, who handed my shipment for custom clearance made this delay for more than 80 Days and finally it got cleared on 29th May, holded my shipment delay for more than 3 months. I have all my email as proof regarding this. Now, I received an invoice asking to pay and receive the shipment. It is totally not acceptable and making this shipment delay again in delivering. Fedex has made this shipment holded for more than 80 days, even documents were provided on time within 10days from the day of booking. This issue is completely from the Fedex team, who has taken the order without getting/letting us know the required documents needed, and Sangeetha, with her irresponsibility, who holded my shipment for more than 80 days in the warehouse, even though I have provided all requested documents on time. Noticed issued on 24st May by you to consignee on the "Issuance of 'Final Notice' under section 48 of customs Act 1962 R(W) regulation 5(5)., relating to uncleared consignment from the customs by the Fedex, hence this notice and Act will not applicable on this shipment, since i am claiming the consignment from the day1 booking to till date. Considering, the received invoice should get a waiver and need to be delivered as early as possible with Zero cost as we already paid the amount for the consignment. Booking amount already covering the custom clearance charges. I have already created an issue ticket regarding this C69383232 and am waiting for a resolution. Hope, the team should have copied all my email on this AWB#, if needed let me know will share the details..