SOURCE: The Print
TITLE: Modi transformed Assam’s Barak Valley into gateway to Southeast Asia: Sonowal
AUTHOR: PTI
DATE: 2026-03-27
URL: https://theprint.in/india/modi-transformed-assams-barak-valley-into-gateway-to-southeast-asia-sonowal/2890483/

--- ARTICLE TEXT ---

Guwahati, Mar 27 (PTI) Union Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday said Assam’s Barak Valley has transformed from an “isolated island of neglect” into a “gateway to Southeast Asia” under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
Kick-starting his political campaign for the forthcoming Assam Assembly elections from Cachar district in Barak Valley, the Union Minister of Ports, Shipping & Waterways underscored the BJP’s vision of integration of Barak, Brahmaputra, hills and plains as the foundation of Assam’s holistic development.
“Barak Valley is not just a geographic region, it is the culturally and spiritually rich heartbeat of Assam. The journey of integration that began in 2016 has brought historic progress, harmony and opportunity to this region,” Sonowal said.
Show Full Article
He claimed the BJP-led NDA government has accorded Barak Valley the respect and recognition it long deserved, in contrast to decades of neglect under Congress rule.
Launching a sharp attack on the Congress, Sonowal alleged that the opposition party seeks to return Assam to an era of “blockade, corruption and isolation”.
“Voting for the BJP is not just a political choice, it is a commitment to safeguard our civilisational identity and secure the future of our children,” he added.
Sonowal further said that before 2016, connectivity challenges had isolated the Southern Assam region, making even travel to Guwahati difficult.
“Today, with massive investments in roads, railways, waterways and air connectivity, Barak Valley is emerging as a key economic and strategic hub,” he added.
Elaborating on governance reforms, the Union minister said the operational mini secretariat in Barak Valley has ensured faster delivery of public services and reduced administrative gaps between the government and citizens.
Positioning Barak Valley at the heart of India’s Act East Policy, he said the region now serves as a vital bridge connecting India with Myanmar, Bangladesh and Southeast Asia. PTI TR TR RG
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.