To, Vp (Sachin bansal, binny bansal), Flipkart india, ltd. Subject: review of return/refund/exchange/replace policy. Dear mr. Bansal, I must say, your customer care staff is a polite but potent firewall. I took me more than two weeks to extract your email id from them. Here is why i am writing to you! I purchased a laptop hp-15au623tx, order od[protected], from flipkart, on 2nd april. It’s a hp pavilion series laptop (I5 7gen 8gbram 4gb graphics; excellent reviews). But when it arrived i found out that this laptop had a fiber body and not the metallic body (As it looked in the images), which i required. So i checked out with hp world store near me and they told me that what i had bought is a pavillion au series laptop and the metallic body laptop is available in pavillion cc series. So i tried to obtain return/exchange on this laptop, which i was denied citing that the seller doesn’t have a return/exchange policy. (Please note, your competitor amazon.com, do have a 3 days return policy on this laptop) now my point is: I bought a branded product (Hp pavilion laptop) from a branded company (Flipkart.com, worth $ 11 billion), then why is this anonymous seller coming into loop. I bought the product on your brand trust, why should i care for your seller or their policy. (Even though i know it’s mentioned in website). Here in my case, evidently i got misled by the images, and ordered the laptop on pretext that it comes in a metallic body (Please also note, even the product description doesn’t describe the body texture and details). Also please note these days laptops come with lots of different models & series. As in my case hp pavilion au series with fiber body and cc series with metal body. So there is every possibility that a customer might make a mistake during an online purchase. And i sincerely believe that you should have some window of return (Even if limited to 2-3 days as with amazon.com) for such costly products. Finally, even if the seller has no exchange/return policy, i think an 11 billion company like flipkart should inculcate some loss bearing capability when it comes to genuine customer request to boost the brand confidence. Remember online buying experience is not always the same as buying from a store and sometimes the customer is bound to make a mistake. And finally hoping that my return/exchange request would be granted, i wish you all the best.