Less than a month after the FIR is registered against the prime suspect Pooja Gupta & her mother Promila Gupta, local Police is investigating further on the financial crime. The investigating team identified bank transactions from the entrepreneur's bank account, withdrawals, and the CDR file of the mobile number "[protected]" registered under the name of Pooja Gupta & details of telephone calls & other telecommunications transactions like Whatsapp, Instagram, i-messages, etc which eventually matching up with the reported incident. Last week, the victim of the matrimony fraud presented another calls record and WhatsApp chat to establish that the money of Rs.28.5lacs was taken by Pooja Gupta however on call and on WhatsApp chat she referred to it as payment received by her but not directly. The local investigation team hasn’t arrested anyone in this matter, as the police are still trying to gather more critical inputs and scrutinizing the angle of the habitual tendency of the Mother-Daughter Duo to extort money by making new traps through publishing ads at matrimonial websites. Pooja Gupta works with ‎Deloitte India (Offices of the US) as senior consultant, technically sound with Oracle cloud financials and uses several dating’s apps like Bumble, Jeevansathi, Tinder, and many more to ploy rich qualified male bachelors. In 2017, Pooja Gupta met this Indian entrepreneur in the context of marriage through online dating app, while he was married and had a child. Pooja Gupta started to provoke him for a year to separate him from his wife and child and enforced an obligatory clause for not honoring the biological child with no rights to meet the child ever. In 2018, finally the District Court of Saket, New Delhi accepted the divorce petition and soon after the grant of Divorce; Pooja Gupta started digging money from the entrepreneur in a different context for 2 years. Soon after the divorce, Pooja Gupta hurriedly got married to the entrepreneur in a Hindu Mandir at Delhi with a simple marriage ceremony and started to live with him on and off by booking several 5-star hotels in Delhi, Noida, and Gurgoan and also at his residence without disclosing this to her family and friends. The entrepreneur did publish several booking vouchers in front of the court and state police and on further investigating the case by the local police, discovered several CCTV footage from the entrepreneur's residence and from various five star hotels as well as the booking vouchers submitted to the District court. In 2020, Pooja Gupta expressed to the entrepreneur that her family needs Rs.28.5 Lacs help on the account of some family dispute at Chandigarh and assured him to refund the money in 3 months timeline. After extracting the money, she became incommunicado. The Entrepreneur called her mother and realized it was a complete “Honey Trap” by Promila Gupta and her daughter Pooja Gupta. The mother Promila Gupta threatened the entrepreneur and said she holds a good connection with Police and Judges. The victim realized that he had been duped following which he filed a police complaint with Local Police as well as with the District Court against Promila Gupta & Pooja Gupta. After the incident came in limelight, Pooja Gupta & Promila Gupta was booked under IT Act and other relevant sections 120B, 420, 421, 406, 506, and 495 of the Indian Penal Code. "The trademark modus operandi of Pooja Gupta remains Lure, extract money and become incommunicado. We will file a prisoner transit warrant and arrest of Promila Gupta & Pooja Gupta, The local inspector said. Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (2)