A.M. Khanwilkar, J. 1. The respondent is a limited company incorporated in the

 United Arab Emirates (UAE). It is engaged in offering, among

 others, remittance services for transferring amounts from UAE to

 various places in India. It had applied for a permission under Section 29(1)(a) of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (for

 short, “the 1973 Act”), pursuant to which approval was granted by

 the Reserve Bank of India (for short, “the RBI”) vide letter dated

 24.9.1996. The same reads thus: - 4. In case you desire to open a head office account in
the books of your liaison office in India, we hereby grant
you our approval to maintain such an account subject to
the conditions that the credits to the account should
represent the funds received from head office through
normal banking channels for meeting the expenses of the
office and no other amount should be credited without
prior permission of the Reserve Bank. Similarly debits to
this account could be raised only for meeting the local
expenses of the office. Audited transcript of the head
office account may be forwarded to our Cochin Regional
Office alongwith the annual accounts mentioned above. 4 5. It is further clarified that the permission granted
 hereby is limited to and for the purpose of the provisions
 of Section 29 ibid only and shall not be construed in any
 way as regularising, condoning or in any manner
 validating any irregularities, contraventions or other
 lapses if any under the provisions of any other law for the
 time being in force. 6. Please note to furnish to us the postal address of
 your liaison office in due course for our record. You may
 also note to address the correspondence in future to our
 Cochin Regional Office. 7. Please acknowledge receipt. Yours faithfully,

 Sd/- (Prashant Saran)
 Deputy General Manager” 2. The respondent set up its first liaison office in Cochin, Kerala

(India) in January, 1997 and thereafter, in Chennai, New Delhi,

Mumbai and Jalandhar in India. The activities carried on by the

respondent from the said liaison offices are stated to be in

conformity with the terms and conditions prescribed by the RBI in

its letter dated 24.9.1996. The entire expenses of the liaison

offices in India are met exclusively out of funds received from UAE

through normal banking channels. Indisputably, it is asserted by

the respondent that its liaison offices undertake no activity of

trading, commercial or industrial, as the case may be. The

respondent has no immovable property in India otherwise than by

way of lease for operating the liaison offices. No fee/commission 5 is charged or received in India by any of the liaison offices for

services rendered in India. It is claimed that no income accrues or

arises or deemed to accrue or arise, directly or indirectly, through

or from any source in India from liaison offices within the meaning

of Section 5 or Section 9 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short,

“the 1961 Act”). According to the respondent, the remittance

services are offered by the respondent to Non-Resident Indians (for

short, “NRIs”) in UAE. The contract pursuant to which the funds

are handed over by the NRI to the respondent in UAE, is entered

between the respondent and the NRI remitter in UAE. The funds

are collected from the NRI remitter by the respondent in UAE by

charging one-time fee of Dirhams 15. After collecting the funds

from the NRI remitter, the respondent makes an electronic

remittance of the funds on behalf of its NRI customer in two ways:- The dispute arises in respect of the second mode of remittance

through the liaison offices in India. That is on account of the

activity undertaken in the liaison office in India of downloading the 6 particulars of remittances through electronic media and printing

cheques/drafts drawn on the banks in India, which, in turn, are

couriered or dispatched to the beneficiaries in India, in accordance

with the instructions of the NRI remitter. While doing this, the

liaison office of the respondent remains connected with its main

server in UAE, as the information is contained in the main server

thereat, which could be accessed by the liaison office in India for

the purpose of remittance of funds to the beneficiaries in India by

the NRI remitters. 3. It is stated that, in compliance with Section 139 of the 1961

Act, the respondent had been filing its returns of income, since the

assessment year 1998-1999 until 2003-2004, showing NIL

income, as according to the respondent, no income had accrued or

deemed to have accrued to it in India, both under the 1961 Act, as

well as, the agreement entered into between the Government of the

Republic of India and the Government of the UAE, which is known

as Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (for short, “DTAA”). This

agreement (DTAA) has been entered into between the two sovereign

countries in exercise of powers under Section 90 of the 1961 Act,

for the purpose of avoidance of double taxation and prevention of

fiscal evasion, with respect to taxes and income on capital. The 7 DTAA has been notified vide notification No. GSR No. 710(E) dated

18.11.1993. As noted earlier, returns were filed on regular basis

by the respondent, which were accepted by the Department

without any demur. However, as some doubt was entertained, the

respondent filed an application under Section 245Q(1) of the 1961

Act before the Authority for Advance Rulings (Income Tax), New

Delhi (for short, “the Authority”), which was numbered as AAR No.

608/2003 and sought ruling of the Authority on the following

question: - In so far as the first mode is concerned, the amount is
remitted telegraphically by transferring directly from UAE
through bank channel to various places in India and in
such remittances the liaison offices have no role to play
except attending to the complaints, if any, in India
regarding the remittances in cases of fraud etc. This is
undoubtedly a work of auxiliary character. However, where
is undoubtedly a work of auxiliary character. However,
where the applicant adopts the second mode for remitting
the amounts in India -an activity approved by the RBI –
the liaison offices of the applicant play an important role.
They down load the data from internet with regard to the
amount to be remitted, the names and addresses of the
beneficiaries and then print cheques/drafts and dispatch
them to the addresses of the beneficiaries in India through
courier. The role of liaison offices in remitting the amounts
by adopting the second mode, is nothing short of
performing the contract of remitting the amounts at least
in part. This case presents a good example of an auxiliary
activity to the main activities and an essential activity in
performance of contractual obligation. Whereas in the first
mode, the activity undertaken by the liaison offices in India
may be said to be auxiliary in character, the same cannot
be said of the second mode. Down loading the data,
preparing cheques for remitting the amount, dispatching
the same through courier by the liaison offices is an
important part of the main work itself because without
remitting the amount to the beneficiaries as desired by the
NRIs, performance of the contract will not be complete. So
the activities of the liaison offices in the second mode
remittance, cannot be said to be work of auxiliary
character. It is indeed a significant part of the main work
of UAE establishment. It follows that the liaison offices of
the applicant in India for the purposes of the second mode
of remittance of amount would be a ‘permanent
establishment’ within the meaning of the expression in
DTAA.” 12 The Authority accordingly concluded that so much of the profits

as shall be deemed to accrue or arise to the respondent in India,

which were attributable to the PE, namely, the liaison offices in

India, would be taxable in India even under the DTAA, and

answered the question affirmatively against the respondent-

assessee. 4. Following the impugned ruling of the Authority, dated

26.5.2004, the Department issued four notices of even date i.e.

19.7.2004 under Section 148 of the 1961 Act addressed to the

respondent pertaining to assessment years 2000-2001, 2001-

2002, 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 respectively. The respondent,

therefore, carried the matter before the High Court of Delhi at New

Delhi (for short, “the High Court”) by way of Writ Petition No.

14869/2004, inter alia, for quashing of the ruling of the Authority

dated 26.5.2004, quashing of stated notices and for a direction to

the appellants not to tax the respondent in India because no

income had accrued to it or is deemed to have accrued to it in India

from its activities of liaison offices in India. The High Court, after

adverting to indisputable facts, noted that the Authority

committed manifest error in appreciating the relevant facts and

materials on record and more particularly, misread the purport of 13 Section 90 of the 1961 Act and the settled legal position that the

DTAA ought to override the provisions of the Act (the 1961 Act). In

other words, the tax liability of the respondent was required to be

assessed on the basis of the provisions in the stated treaty,

namely, DTAA. The High Court adverted to the exposition in Union

of India & Anr. vs. Azadi Bachao Andolan & Anr.2 in

paragraphs 28 and 29 and then observed as follows: - 5. Feeling aggrieved, the Department has assailed the decision

of the High Court by way of the present appeal arising from SLP(C)

No. 31276/2011. 6. We have heard Mr. Arijit Prasad, learned senior counsel for

the appellants and Mr. H.P. Ranina, learned counsel for the

respondent. 7. Both sides have more or less reiterated the stand taken before

the Authority and the High Court. After cogitating over the rival

submissions and the opinion recorded by the Authority and the

High Court, the core issue that needs to be answered in this appeal

is: whether the stated activities of the respondent-assessee would

qualify the expression “of preparatory or auxiliary character”?

Having regard to the nature of activities carried on by the

respondent-assessee, as held by the Authority, it would appear

that the respondent was engaged in “business” and had “business

connections”, for which, by virtue of deeming provision and the

sweep of Sections 2(24) , 4 and 5 read with Section 9 of the 1961

Act including the exposition in Anglo-French Textile Co. Ltd.

(supra) and R.D. Aggarwal & Company (supra), it would be a

case of income deemed to accrue or arise in India to the

respondent. 8. However, in the present case, the matter in issue will have to

be answered on the basis of the stipulations in DTAA notified in

exercise of powers conferred under Section 90 of the 1961 Act.

This position is no more res integra in view of the dictum in Azadi

Bachao Andolan (supra). The efficacy of Section 90 of the 1961

Act has been delineated by this Court after adverting to the

decisions in Commissioner of Income Tax, AP-I vs.

Vishakhapatnam Port Trust4 , Commissioner of Income Tax

vs. Davy Ashmore India Ltd.5 , Leonhardt Andra Und Partner,

GmbH vs. Commissioner of Income Tax6 , Commissioner of

Income Tax vs. R.M. Muthaiah7 and Arabian Express Line Ltd.

of United Kingdom & Ors. vs. Union of India8, whereafter the

Court went on to observe in paragraph 28, as follows: - 3. This Agreement shall also apply to any identical or
 substantially similar taxes on income or capital which are
 imposed at Federal or State level by either Contracting
 State in addition to, or in place of, the taxes referred to in
 paragraph 2 of this Article. The competent authorities of
 the Contracting States shall notify each other of any
 substantial changes which are made in their respective
 taxation laws.” Article 3 refers to General Definitions and the meaning of the

concerned expression contained in the agreement, unless the

context otherwise requires. Article 4 pertains to “Resident of the

Contracting State”. The other Articles which may have bearing on

the question posed before us are Articles 5 and 7 , dealing with

“Permanent Establishment (PE)” and “Business Profits”

respectively, which read thus: - 4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2,
where a person - other than an agent of independent
status to whom paragraph 5 applies - is acting on behalf
of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises in a
Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts on 24 behalf of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed
to have a permanent establishment in that State in
respect of any activities which that person undertakes for
the enterprise, unless the activities of such persons are
limited to the purchase of goods or merchandise for the
enterprise. 5. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be
deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other
Contracting State merely because it carries on business in
that other State through a broker, general commission
agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary
course of their business. However, when the activities of
such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on
behalf of that enterprise, he will not be considered an
agent of an independent status within the meaning of this
paragraph. Article 7 BUSINESS PROFITS 1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State
shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise
carries on business in the other Contracting State through
a permanent establishment situated therein. If the
enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of
the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so
much of them as is attributable to that permanent
establishment. 2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an
enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent
establishment situated therein, there shall in each
Contracting State be attributed to that permanent
establishment the profits which it might be expected to
make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged
in the same or similar activities under the same or similar
conditions and dealing wholly independently with the
enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment. 3. In determining the profits of a permanent
establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions
expenses which are incurred for the purposes of the
business of the permanent establishment, including
executive and general administrative expenses so
incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent
establishment is situated or elsewhere. 4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting
 State to determine the profits to be attributed to a
 permanent establishment on the basis of an
 apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its
 various parts, nothing in paragraph 2 shall preclude that
 Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed
 by such an apportionment as may be customary; the
 methods of apportionment adopted shall, however, be
 such that, the result shall be in accordance with the
 principles contained in this Article. 5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent
 establishment by reason of the mere purchase by the
 permanent establishment of goods or merchandise for the
 enterprise. 6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the
 profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment
 shall be determined by the same method year by year
 unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary. 7. Where profits include items of income which are
 dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement,
 then the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected
 by the provisions of this Article.”

Keeping in view the finding recorded by the High Court, we may

proceed on the basis that the respondent-assessee had a fixed

place of business through which the business of the respondent

was being wholly or partly carried on. That, however, would not

be conclusive until a further finding is recorded that the

respondent had a PE situated in India, so as to attract Article 7 dealing with business profits to become taxable in India, to the

extent attributable to the PE of the respondent in India. For that,

we may have to revert back to Article 5 , which deals with and

defines the “Permanent Establishment (PE)”. A fixed place of 26 business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or

partly carried on is regarded as a PE. The term “Permanent

Establishment (PE)” would include the specified places referred to

in clause 2 of Article 5. It is not in dispute that the place from

where the activities are carried on by the respondent in India is a

liaison office and would, therefore, be covered by the term PE in Article 5(2). However, Article 5(3) of the DTAA opens with a non-

obstante clause and also contains a deeming provision. It

predicates that notwithstanding the preceding provisions of the

concerned Article, which would mean clauses 1 and 2 of Article 5 ,

it would still not be a PE, if any of the clauses in Article 5(3) are

applicable. For that, the functional test regarding the activity in

question would be essential. The High Court has opined that the

respondent was carrying on stated activities in the fixed place of

business in India of a preparatory or auxiliary character. Indeed,

the expression “business” has been defined in the 1961 Act, as

follows: - We will advert to those provisions a little later and for the time

being, assume that the stated activities of the respondent are

business activities. However, since the stated activities of the

liaison offices of the respondent in India are of preparatory or

auxiliary character, the same would fall within the excepted

category under Article 5(3)(e) of the DTAA. Resultantly, it cannot

be regarded as a PE within the sweep of Article 7 of DTAA. The

expression “preparatory” is not defined in the 1961 Act or the

DTAA. The dictionary meaning of that expression can be traced to

term “preparatory work” and “travaux préparatoires”, which in the

Black’s Law Dictionary (Eleventh Edition), read thus:- These are the limited activities which the respondent has been

permitted to carry on within India. This permission does not allow

the respondent-assessee to enter into a contract with anyone in

India, but only to provide service of delivery of cheques/drafts

drawn on the banks in India. Notably, the permitted activities are 30 required to be carried out by the respondent subject to conditions

specified in clause 3 of the permission, which includes not to

render any consultancy or any other service, directly or indirectly,

with or without any consideration and further that the liaison

office in India shall not borrow or lend any money from or to any

person in India without prior permission of RBI. The conditions

make it amply clear that the office in India will not undertake any

other activity of trading, commercial or industrial, nor shall it enter

into any business contracts in its own name without prior

permission of the RBI. The liaison office of the respondent in India

cannot even charge commission/fee or receive any remuneration

or income in respect of the activities undertaken by the liaison

office in India. From the onerous stipulations specified by the RBI,

it could be safely concluded, as opined by the High Court, that the

activities in question of the liaison office(s) of the respondent in

India are circumscribed by the permission given by the RBI and

are in the nature of preparatory or auxiliary character. That

finding reached by the High Court is unexceptionable. 10. The High Court had justly adverted to the exposition of this

Court in DIT (International Taxation), Mumbai vs. Morgan 31 Stanley & Co. Inc.9 , which dealt with the case of an assessee

having set up office in India to support the main office functions

in fixed income and equity research and in providing IT enabled

services such as back office operations, data processing and

support centres to the entity in United States. This Court, in

paragraphs 10 to 14, observed thus: - 11. Lastly, as rightly held by AAR there is no agency
 PE as the PE in India had no authority to enter into or
 conclude the contracts. The contracts would be
 entered into in the United States. They would be
 concluded in US. The implementation of those
 contracts only to the extent of back office functions
 would be carried out in India, and therefore, MSAS
 would not constitute an agency PE as contended on
 behalf of the Department. 12. In DTAA, the term PE means a fixed place of
 business through which the business of an MNE is wholly
 or partly carried out. The definition of the word PE in Section 92-F(iii) is inclusive, however, it is not under Article 9 (2007) 7 SCC 1 32 5(1) of the Treaty. It is for this reason that Article 5(2) of
DTAA herein refers to places included as PE of the MNE.
One such place is mentioned in Article 5(2)(l) which deals
with furnishing of services. 13. The concept of PE was introduced in the 1961 Act
as part of the statutory provisions of transfer pricing by the Finance Act of 2001. In Section 92-F(iii) the word
“enterprise” is defined to mean
 “a person (including a permanent establishment of
 such person) who is, or has been, or is proposed to
 be, engaged in any activity, relating to the
 production, …”
Under CBDT Circular No. 14 of 2001 it has been clarified
that the term PE has not been defined in the Act but its
meaning may be understood with reference to DTAA
entered into by India. Thus the intention was to rely on the
concept and definition of PE in DTAA. However, vide the Finance Act, 2002 the definition of PE was inserted in the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short “the IT Act ”) vide Section
92-F (iii-a) which states that the PE shall include a fixed
place of business through which the business of MNE is
wholly or partly carried on. This is where the difference
lies between the definition of the word PE in the
inclusive sense under the IT Act as against the
definition of the word PE in the exhaustive sense under
DTAA. This analysis is important because it indicates
the intention of Parliament in adopting an inclusive
definition of PE so as to cover service PE, agency PE,
software PE, construction PE, etc. 14. There is one more aspect which needs to be
discussed, namely, exclusion of PE under Article 5(3). Under Article 5(3)(e) activities which are preparatory or
auxiliary in character which are carried out at a fixed
place of business will not constitute a PE. Article 5(3) commences with a non obstante clause. It states that
notwithstanding what is stated in Article 5(1) or under Article 5(2) the term PE shall not include maintenance
of a fixed place of business solely for advertisement,
scientific research or for activities which are
preparatory or auxiliary in character. In the present case
we are of the view that the abovementioned back office
functions proposed to be performed by MSAS in India falls
under Article 5(3)(e) of DTAA. Therefore, in our view in the
present case MSAS would not constitute a fixed place PE
under Article 5(1) of DTAA as regards its back office
operations.”
 (emphasis supplied) 33 Learned counsel for the appellant, however, attempted to

distinguish this judgment on the argument that this case dealt

with the issue of service PE. According to him, the Court must

examine the full transactions of the respondent to determine

whether the work done by the respondent-assessee was one of a

backup office work or auxiliary work. Insofar as the nature of

activities carried on by the respondent through the liaison office in

India, as permitted by the RBI, we have upheld the conclusion of

the High Court that the same were in the nature of “preparatory or

auxiliary character” and, therefore, covered by Article 5(3)(e). As a

result, the fixed place used by the respondent as liaison office in

India, would not qualify the definition of PE in terms of Articles

5(1) and 5(2) of the DTAA on account of non-obstante and deeming

clause in Article 5(3) of the DTAA. 11. Having said thus, it must follow that the respondent was not

carrying on any business activity in India as such, but only

dispensing with the remittances by downloading information from

the main server of respondent in UAE and printing cheques/drafts

drawn on the banks in India as per the instructions given by the

NRI remitters in UAE. The transaction(s) had completed with the

remitters in UAE, and no charges towards fee/commission could 34 be collected by the liaison office in India in that regard. To put it

differently, no income as specified in Section 2(24) of the 1961 Act

is earned by the liaison office in India and moreso because, the

liaison office is not a PE in terms of Article 5 of DTAA (as it is only

carrying on activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character). The

concomitant is - no tax can be levied or collected from the liaison

office of the respondent in India in respect of the primary business

activities consummated by the respondent in UAE. The activities

carried on by the liaison office of the respondent in India as

permitted by the RBI, clearly demonstrate that the respondent

must steer away from engaging in any primary business activity

and in establishing business connection as such. It can carry on

activities of preparatory or auxiliary nature only. In that case, the

deeming provisions in Sections 5 and 9 of the 1961 Act can have

no bearing whatsoever. 12. Our attention was invited to the dictum in Assistant

Director of Income Tax-1, New Delhi vs. E-Funds IT Solution

Inc.10 . Paragraph 2 of the said decision would clearly indicate the

background in which the issue was answered by this Court. The

same reads thus: - 10 Consequently, the assessees were liable to pay tax in
 respect of what they earned from the aforesaid fixed place
 PE in India. The CIT (Appeals) dismissed the appeals of the
 assessees holding that Article 5 was attracted, not only
 because there was a fixed place where the assessees
 carried on their business, but also because they were
 “service PEs” and “agency PEs” under Article 5. In an
 appeal to the ITAT, the ITAT held that the CIT (Appeals)
 was right in holding that a “fixed place PE” and “service
 PE” had been made out under Article 5 , but said nothing
 about the “agency PE” as that was not argued by the
 Revenue before the ITAT. However, the ITAT, on a
 calculation formula different from that of the CIT (Appeals),
 arrived at a nil figure of income for all the relevant
 assessment years. The appeal of the assessees to the High
 Court proved successful and the High Court, by an
 elaborate judgment, has set aside the findings of all the
 authorities referred to above , and further dismissed the
 cross-appeals of the Revenue. Consequently, the Revenue
 is before us in these appeals.”

The Court, after analysing the decisions and the concerned report

produced before it, observed in paragraph 22 as follows: - 13. The High Court has also examined the matter in the context

of explanation to Section 9(1)(i) of the 1961 Act. Prior to enactment

of Finance Act, 2003 (32 of 2003), Section 9(1)(i) read thus: - Section (1) of Section 9 with effect from 1.4.2004. The same reads

thus: - resident, unless his activities are limited to the
 purchase of goods or merchandise for the non-
 resident; or (b) has no such authority, but habitually
 maintains in India a stock of goods or merchandise
 from which he regularly delivers goods or
 merchandise on behalf of the non-resident; or 39 (c) habitually secures orders in India, mainly or
 wholly for the non-resident or that non-resident and
 other non-residents controlling, controlled by, or
 subject to the same common control, as that non-
 resident: 14. Taking any view of the matter, therefore, we find no

substance in this appeal. We uphold the conclusions reached by

the High Court for the reasons stated hitherto. 15. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed with no order as to costs.

Pending interlocutory applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. ..................................J.
 (A.M. Khanwilkar)

 ..................................J.
 (Ajay Rastogi)
New Delhi; April 24, 2020.