1. Vide this judgment, this court shall decide the complaint
filed by the complainant under section 138 of the Negotiable
Instrument Act (hereinafter referred to as NI Act ) against the
accused for dishonour of cheque bearing no. 006726 dated
11.12.2017 for Rs 3,04,662 (hereinafter referred to as cheque in
question). 2. The case of the complainant in brief is that the complainant
deals in motor finance business. The accused stood as guarantor
in respect of a vehicle loan of Rs 3,00,000/- taken against vehicle
bearing no. No. DL-4CNE-4652. The loan was taken from the
complainant taken in the month of May 2017. The loan account
number is 3248 and prinncipal borrower is Mr. Abhishek Kumar. Digitally
 signed by
Loan agreement dated 01.05.2017, was executed by Abhishek SURABHI
 SURABHI
 RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 3. In support of this complaint, the complainant tendered his
evidence by way of affidavit and relied on the following
documents: 4. Upon appreciation of pre-summoning evidence, accused
was summoned for the offence u/s 138 NI Act. Notice of Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 M/s MCF Finlease P. Ltd vs Jitender Kr. Pandey DOD 19.08.2025 3 of 15 Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 accusation u/s 251 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973
(hereinafter referred to as CrPC ) was served on the accused. In
his notice the accused had stated that cheque bears his signature
but he had not filed particulars on the cheque. He had denied
receiving of legal demand notice but stated that the address
mentioned therein is correct except Bal Udyan Road. He has
stated that he stood as guarantor for loan taken by Abhishek
Kumar Sinha from the complainant and Abhishek Kumar has
failed to repay the loan. It was further stated that he came to
know about default when he received process from the court. He
denied liability towards the complainant. 5. Application u/s 145(2) NI Act was allowed, and the
accused was given the opportunity to cross-examine the
complainant and its witness, if any. CW1 was examined, cross-
examined and discharged. CE was closed. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED
 Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI 6. Statement of accused under Section 313 CrPC read with SURABHI
 RASTOGI
 RASTOGI
 Date: 7. Ld. Counsel for the complainant had argued that the
accused had admitted his siganture on the cheque therefore
presumption lies in the favour of the complainant. He has further
argued that there is proper undertaking regarding loan on record.
It was then argued that nothing has been brought on record to
show that undertaking is a forged document. In respect of the
address, Ld. Counsel for the complainant has argued that the
Non-Bailable warrants were issued at the same address and after
 Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 8. Ld. Counsel for the accused had argued that address of the
accused as mentioned in the notice of accusation u/s 251 CrPC
and statement u/s 313 CRPC is different from the address
mentioned in the legal demand notice and therefore the accused
had not received the notice. It was then argued that the loan is of
Mr. Abhishek Kumar. It was then argued that the date of
receiving certified copy of the board resolution is not mentioned.
It was further argued that there is no entry regarding undertaking
in any register. At the end it was argued that the date of
advancement of loan is not mentioned and the loan schedule is Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 M/s MCF Finlease P. Ltd vs Jitender Kr. Pandey DOD 19.08.2025 5 of 15 Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 not notarised. Ld. Counsel for the complainant has argued in
rebuttal that the date of advancement of loan is mentioned in the
schedule which is part of the loan agreement filed by the
complainant and since the loan schedule is the part of the loan
agreement which was duly notarised therefore there is no need to
notarised the schedule 9. I have heard counsel for parties, perused the record and
have gone through relevant provisions of law. The following
points required determination in the present case: LAW UNDER CONSIDERATION Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 10. To bring home the guilt of the accused, the complainant is
 16:38:48
 +0530

duty-bound to prove the following ingredients of Section 138 NI
Act as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case
titled Aparna A. Shah v M/s Sheth Developers P. Ltd & Anr.
(2013) 8 SCC 7 (i) a person must have drawn a cheque on an
 account maintained by him in a bank for
 payment of a certain amount of money to
 another person from out of that account; M/s MCF Finlease P. Ltd vs Jitender Kr. Pandey DOD 19.08.2025 6 of 15 Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 (ii) the cheque should have been issued for the
 discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or
 other liability; (iii) that cheque has been presented to the bank
 within six months from the date on which it is
 drawn or within the period of its validity,
 whichever is earlier; (iv) that cheque is returned by the bank unpaid,
 either because the amount of money standing to
 the credit of the account is insufficient to honour
 the cheque or because it exceeds the amount
 arranged to be paid from that account by an
 agreement made with the bank; (v) the payee or the holder in due course of the
 cheque makes a demand for the payment of the
 said amount of money by giving a notice in
 writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within 15
 days of the receipt of information by him from
 the bank regarding the return of the cheque as
 unpaid; (vi) the drawer of such cheque fails to make
 payment of the said amount of money to the
 payee or the holder in due course of the cheque
 within 15 days of the receipt of the said notice. 11. Further, once the accused had admitted his signature on the
cheque in question, the presumption u/s 139 NI Act and Section
118 (a) of the NI Act becomes applicable. Section 118 (a) of the NI Act provides,
 Digitally

 Until the contrary is proved, the following
 signed by
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI
 presumptions shall be made:--(a)of RASTOGI Date: Bailable Warrants were issued against the accused on 28.05.2022
at the same address and on 03.09.2022, report was received that it
is informed that the accused is gone out of station. This shows
that the address mentioned on the legal demand notice is not the
incorrect address of the accused. (iv) the accused had not made
the payment within 15 days from receipt of the notice. Now in
respect of the question of legally enforceable debt, presumption u/s 118(a) of the NI Act and Section 139 of the NI Act comes into
play since the accused has admitted his signature on the cheque
in question in the notice of accusation put to him u/s 251 CrPC.
Now the accused has the burden to rebut the case of the
complainant. 13. To discharge this burden, the accused had taken defence
 Digitally
 signed by
that board resolution filed by the complainant is not correct, date SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 14. The complainant in his evidence has stated that It is
correct that the board resolution does not mention the date on
which certified copy was obtained. It mentions the date when the
board resolution was passed in my favour. On 16.09.2023, the
complainant brought minutes of the meeting held on 20.06.2018
Ex. CW1/DX1(OSR) which does not bear stamp of the
complainant company. The complainant has also brought on
record the master data of the complainant company Ex.
CW1/DX2 colly. The board resolution does authorise CW1 to
pursue all the legal proceeding in respect of Loan A/c no. 3248
against the accused. The certified copy of the board resolution is
the original document of the company which is signed by the
director and the accused has not raised any objection that no such
meeting happened or that the alleged document is a fabricated
document. Further the copy of minutes of the meeting
accompanied with the certificate u/s 65 B of the Indian Evidence
Act also supports the version of the complainant regarding the Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI

authority of CW1 to represent the complainant in the present RASTOGI Date: 15. The second defence taken by the accused is that the
undertaking allegdly signed by the accused i.e Ex. CW1/6 is a
forged document. Nothing has been brought on record to
substantiate the same. This is also to be seen in the light of section 91 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872, as per which- When the terms of a contract, or of a grant,
 or of any other disposition of property, have been
 reduced to the form of a document, and in all
 cases in which any matter is required by law to
 be reduced to the form of a document, no
 evidence shall be given in proof of the terms of
 such contract, grant or other disposition of
 property, or of such matter, except the document
 itself, or secondary evidence of its contents in
 cases in which secondary evidence is
 admissible... Indian Evidence Act does allows oral evidence regarding Digitally
 signed by

fraud/forgery in the above situation also. The same is given as
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 16. Accused had not brought on record any evidence to
substantiate his claim that the cheque in question was given to
Mr. Abhishek Kumar. This is also to be seen in the light of the
provision of Section 118 (g) of the NI Act which provides,

 Until the contrary is proved, the following
 presumptions shall be made:--(g) that the
 holder is holder in due course --that holder of
 negotiable instrument is a holder in due course.
 Provided that where the instrument has been
 obtained from its lawful owner, or from any
 person in lawful custody thereof, by means of
 an offence or fraud, or has been obtained from
 the maker or acceptor thereof, by means of an
 offence or fraud or for unlawful consideration, Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI

 the burden to prove that he is holder in due SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 17. The accused has alledgly signed the vehicle loan
agreement as a guarantor of the loan. Though he has denied the
same but nothing has been brought on record to substantiate it.
This has to be seen in the light of the fact that the accused has
himself admitted to be a guarantor of the present loan taken by
Mr. Abhishek Kumar. The complainant company has full right to
proceed against the guarantor in case of any default committed
by the principal borrower. The version of the complainant that
the accused approached them for the repayment of the loan when
 Digitally
 signed by

the reminder notice was sent to him is substantiated by the fact
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 18. From the above it can be concluded that the cheque in
question was issued on the bank account maintained by the
accused. This cheque was presented for encashment but was
dishonoured. Thereafter, the legal demand notice was issued to
the accused by the complainant, calling him to make the
payment. He did not make the payment, and that led to the filing
of the present complaint. On admission of the accused of his
signature on the cheque in question, the burden to rebut the Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 M/s MCF Finlease P. Ltd vs Jitender Kr. Pandey DOD 19.08.2025 13 of 15 Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 presumption u/s 139 NI Act was shifted to the accused. The
grounds of defence taken by the accused had not sufficiently
rebutted this presumption. There are other corroborating facts
that are not in support of the accused. Thus, this court is of the
view that the present complaint disclosed the existence of legally
enforceable liability against the accused. The complainant has
been successful in proving all the ingredients of offence
punishable u/s 138 of the NI Act and the accused has failed to
rebut the presumption by creating any reasonable doubt in the
version of the complainant. 19. The accused, Mr. Jitender Kumar Pandey, is held guilty for
the offence punishable under Section 138 NI Act and is convicted
under Section 138 of the NI Act in the present case. This judgment contains 15 pages, and each page bears my
signature. Accused be now heard on the quantum of sentence. SURABHI SURABHI
 RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 2025.08.19
 16:39:55 +0530

 (SURABHI RASTOGI)
 JMFC (NI Act)-01
 DWARKA COURT,
 SWD, DELHI Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 M/s MCF Finlease P. Ltd vs Jitender Kr. Pandey DOD 19.08.2025 14 of 15 Ct. Case No. 5158 of 2018 CERTIFICATE

The convict has been apprised that he can avail the services of
LAC for pursuing higher remedies including filing of appeal
against the aforesaid judgment. The convict has also been
apprised about the address and contact of concerned official from
DLSA, Dwarka Court, South-West, Delhi i.e. Administrative
Block, Ground Floor, Dwarka Court, New Delhi, Phone No.
28041480, email id : [email protected] Digitally signed by SURABHI SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: