[Per: Barun Mitra, Member (Technical)]

 The present appeal filed under Section 61 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy

Code 2016 ('IBC' in short) by the Appellant arises out of the Order dated

08.09.2022 (hereinafter referred to as 'Impugned Order') passed by the

Adjudicating Authority (National Company Law Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench,

Chandigarh) in C.P. (IB) No. 323/Chd/HP/2019. By the impugned order, the

Adjudicating Authority has rejected the Section 9 application filed by

Optinova AB - Operational Creditor/Appellant against Respondent/Corporate

Debtor - Bio-Med Health Care Products Private Ltd. Aggrieved by this

impugned order, the present appeal has been preferred by the Appellant. 2. We heard Mr. Aditya Dewan, Learned Counsel who appeared on behalf

of the Appellant and Mr. Nikhil Verma, Learned Counsel who appeared on

behalf of the Respondent. 3. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant making his submissions stated

that the Appellant - Operational Creditor had been supplying medical tubing

to the Respondent - Corporate Debtor against purchase orders issued from

time to time and that in terms of the statement of account maintained by the

Appellant, an amount of Euro 320,406/- (Rs. 2.56 cr) is required to be paid

by the Respondent as outstanding dues. It is further submitted that in spite

of reminders, the dues were not cleared by the Corporate Debtor despite

admitting their liabilities. Hence, the Appellant was compelled to issue a

Demand Notice on 20.02.2019 requesting for payment of Rs.2.56 cr within 10

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 3 days of the receipt of the Demand Notice. Further submission was made that

the Respondent in response to the Demand Notice did not pay the debt

amount. Instead, a reply was sent on 01.03.2019 to the Appellant stating that

Euro 206,024/- has already been paid by them and since the payment was

subjected to a cyber fraud, it is a disputed amount. Mentioning that they had

already filed a police complaint on 14.01.2019 alleging cyber fraud having

been committed against them, the Appellant was asked to withdraw the

Demand Notice. 4. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant contended that since the cyber

fraud had been committed by a third party, this cannot become the basis of

a pre-existing dispute between the Appellant and Respondent. In any case,

the matter being still under investigation and no complicity of the Appellant

having been established, submission was pressed that the Adjudicating

Authority without applying its mind has wrongly accepted the bogey of pre-

existing dispute raised by the Respondent. It was also added that even if the

amount under dispute is not considered, an amount of Euro 111,887/- has

already been acknowledged by the Respondent to be due and payable, which

amount being above the threshold level, was sufficient for attracting Section

9 of IBC. In support of their contention, the Learned Counsel for the Appellant

has relied on the judgment of this Tribunal in M/s Manipal Media Network

Limited Vs. M/s Vishwakshara Media Pvt Ltd in CA(AT)(Ins) No. 369 of

2020 wherein it has been held that the "law is very clear that it is enough if

under Section 4 of IBC the unpaid debt is more than the threshold value of Rs.

One Lakh for acceptance of application under Section 9 of IBC." However, the

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 4 Adjudicating Authority vide impugned order dated 08.09.2022 erroneously

dismissed the Section 9 application and aggrieved by the same, the present

appeal has been preferred. 5. Refuting the arguments advanced by the Appellant, it was submitted

by the Learned Counsel for the Respondent that the Corporate Debtor had

never attempted to evade their liability to clear the outstanding operational

debt. It has been submitted that against Euro 320,406/- claimed by the

Appellant, Euro 206,024/- was already paid to them but allegedly not received

by them due to cyber fraud. It was added that both parties had mutually come

to the conclusion that this was a case of fraud and a police complaint was

also lodged. It is also vehemently contended that this cyber fraud could not

have taken place without the help of the employees of the Appellant and thus

the direct involvement of the Appellant cannot be ruled out. However, this

clearly renders the amount to be disputed. Hence, it was submitted that the

Adjudicating Authority had correctly noted that the police complaint having

been lodged before the receipt of the Demand Notice, this was a clear case of

pre-existing dispute. It is also submitted that in terms of Section 9(5)(ii)(d) of

the IBC, if a notice of dispute is received by the Operational Creditor, the

Adjudicating Authority has to reject a Section 9 application. Hence the

Adjudicating Authority has correctly dismissed the present section 9 application. In support of their contention, reliance has been placed on the Mobilox Innovations Private Limited vs. Kirusa Software Private Limited (2018) 1 SCC 353 judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court which provides that if

an existence of a dispute is found before the issue of Demand Notice, the

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 5 Adjudicating Authority is required to dismiss a Section 9 application without

going into the merits of the dispute. 6. On the outstanding amount, it was submitted that besides the disputed

amount of Euro 206,024/-, a sum of Euro 2495/- was not payable as no

invoices were issued by the Appellant. Admitting that Euro 111,887/-

remained unpaid at the time of receipt of Demand Notice dated 20.02.2019,

it was added that subsequently the Appellant was paid Euro 57,741/- and

another sum of Euro 12,997/- which was paid to a sister concern of the

Appellant. The Learned Counsel for the Respondent stated that the admitted

liability has not been paid because of frequent changes in the bank account

details of the Operational Creditor and for not being sure of the genuineness

of the bank account. It was submitted that they are still ready and willing to

pay to them the balance amount of Euro 41,148/- for which the Appellant

may be directed to furnish their bank details before a competent authority. 7. We have duly considered the arguments advanced by the Learned

Counsel for the parties and perused the records carefully. 8. Before we dwell on the facts of the present case and weigh the rival

submissions of the two parties, a quick glance at the relevant statutory

construct of IBC would be useful. Section 8 of the IBC requires the

Operational Creditor, on occurrence of a default by the Corporate Debtor, to

deliver a Demand Notice in respect of the outstanding operational debt. Section 8(2) lays down that the Corporate Debtor would have to bring to the

notice of the Operational Creditor, the existence of dispute, if any, within a

period of 10 days of the receipt of the Demand Notice. Section 9 of IBC

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 6 provides for the further course of action to be followed post issue of Demand

Notice by the Operational Creditor. Under Section 9(1) , if the Operational

Creditor does not receive payment or any notice of the dispute from the

Corporate Debtor, he may file an application under Section 9(1) of the IBC. 9. In the present case, it is an undisputed fact that the demand notice was

issued by the Operational Creditor on 20.02.2019 and notice of dispute was

raised by the Corporate Debtor on 01.03.2019. It is also an undisputed fact

that in the present matter, the Operational Creditor did not receive any

further payment from the Corporate Debtor and therefore proceeded to file an

application under Section 9 of IBC on 22.05.2019. 10. Both parties in support of their respective contention have relied on the

judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mobilox supra. It goes without

saying that the legal precepts laid down by this landmark judgement provides

the guiding principles in analysing the admissibility of Section 9 application.

The test to be followed to examine an application under Section 9 has been laid down in para 34 of this judgement which is to the effect: - If any one of the aforesaid conditions is lacking, the application
 would have to be rejected. Apart from the above, the adjudicating
 authority must follow the mandate of Section 9 , as outlined above,

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 7 and in particular the mandate of Section 9(5) of the Act, and admit
 or reject the application, as the case may be, depending upon the
 factors mentioned in Section 9(5) of the Act." 11. On the issue of operational debt having become due and payable and

remained unpaid, the Appellant has emphatically asserted that an amount of

Euro 300,702/- was still due and payable by the Corporate Debtor. It is the

case of the Appellant that Euro 206,024/- which is claimed to have been paid

by the Respondent was incorrect as the said sum was never credited to the

account of the Appellant. It is further the case of the Appellant that since the

Respondent have themselves claimed that they had remitted Euro 206,024/-

to the Appellant, this amounted to be a clear acknowledgment of debt having

become due and payable. Further, the very fact that the Respondent had

admittedly paid the said amount to a wrong bank account which was different

from the bank account indicated in the invoices, such payment made to a

wrong bank account which did not belong to the Operational Creditor, did not

extinguish the liability of the Respondent since the money was not actually

received by the Appellant. 12. It is the counter contention of the Learned Counsel for the Respondent

that the Corporate Debtor had already made a payment of Euro 206,024/- to

the Appellant. Explaining their position, it was stated that historically

payments were made by them to the bank account of the Appellant in the

Nordea Bank. However, on 26.03.2018, an email was received from the

Operational Creditor to send all further payments to their Bank of America

account. It is further contended that the Operational Creditor on 14.05.2018

sent an Authorisation Letter to the Respondent/Corporate Debtor regarding

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 8 release of payments to their Bank of America account. However, as the fund

transfer to the Bank of America account failed, confirmation of bank account

details was sought again by the Corporate Debtor to which a reply was

received providing new bank account details of Chase Bank. Thereafter,

further payments were accordingly remitted to the Appellant by the Corporate

Debtor to the Chase Bank account. Only at a later point of time, on an enquiry

made by the Appellant with the Respondent regarding outstanding dues that

it came to light that the Appellant had not changed their Nordea Bank account

and that payment made by the Respondent to the Chase Bank account was a

cyber fraud committed on the Respondent/Corporate Debtor. It has been

contended by the Learned Counsel for the Respondent that on review of the

emails exchanged between the two parties regarding bank account details,

both parties had mutually come to the conclusion that this was a case of

fraud. A police complaint was also lodged which occurred before the receipt

of the Demand Notice and this was also raised by the Respondent in their

notice of dispute. Thus, the payment of Euro 206,024/- was a clear case of

pre-existing dispute. 13. It is also the case of the Respondent that this cyber fraud could not

have taken place without the help of some of the employees of the Appellant

and that the involvement of the Appellant cannot be ruled out given their non-

cooperative behaviour towards the investigations. It was submitted that while

the Appellant had initially agreed to cooperate with the investigation having

accepted that a fraud had taken place, they later refused to cooperate and

even refused to become a co-complainant before the police authorities to

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 9 pursue the investigation into the cyber fraud. In terms of Section 9(5)(ii)(d) of

the IBC, the Adjudicating Authority has to reject a Section 9 application if a

notice of dispute has been received by the Operational Creditor. Hence, it was

submitted that the Adjudicating Authority had correctly noted that this was

a clear case of pre-existing dispute. In support of their contention, reliance

has been placed on the Mobilox judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court which

provides that if an existence of a dispute is found before the issue of Demand

Notice, the Adjudicating Authority is required to dismiss a Section 9 application without going into the merits of the dispute. 14. Given this backdrop, it will be useful to find out how the Adjudicating

Authority has considered the spectrum of facts and passed the impugned

order rejecting the Section 9 application on the grounds of pre-existing

disputes. The relevant portion of the impugned order is as extracted

hereunder: 15. Coming to our findings, at the outset, we must state that we are clear

in our minds, that the incidence of cyber-fraud is an undisputed fact.

However, what we need to analyse is whether the cyber fraud committed

against the Respondent falls within the ambit and canvas of pre-existing

dispute in terms of the statutory construct of IBC. Keeping in mind the ratio

of the Mobilox judgment, we entirely agree that the Adjudicating Authority

is only required to be satisfied that plausibility of a pre-existing dispute has

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 11 been shown without the need of entering into any further detailed

investigation or final adjudication with regard to existence of dispute.

However, more importantly, given the facts of the present case, we cannot lose

sight of the fact that this judgement also clearly postulates that what needs

to be carefully examined is "whether there is existence of a dispute

between the parties". Thus, what needs to be found out is whether this

cyber-fraud was a dispute inter-se the two parties. 16. It is the case of the Appellant that it is an undisputed fact that the debt

has been clearly acknowledged by the Respondent. That apart, there is also

no dispute over the fact that the debt has become due and payable. It is also

the case of the Appellant that even though there were admittedly some

exchange of communication between the Appellant and Respondent with

regard to the cyber-fraud suffered by the Corporate Debtor, but the use of the

word "dispute" in the context of this fraud was made for the first time only in

their Reply to Demand Notice. Since the fraud was perpetrated by unknown

third parties, dragging the Operational Creditor into the dispute was a simple

and deliberate ploy on the part of the Corporate Debtor to evade payment of

liabilities. The pre-existing dispute was a fictional dispute and more of an

after-thought. Moreover, it has been contended that even after having become

a victim of cyber fraud, the fact that the Respondent had willing paid further

sums of money to the Appellant in their Nordea Bank account shows that

there was no dispute between the two parties with respect to the operational

debt being due and payable. Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 12 17. When we look at the material on record, in the instant case, the

Respondent by their own admission have conceded that they had become a

victim of fraud by "an unknown third party". This is borne out from the fact

that the Respondent filed their police complaint on 14.01.2019 "against

unknown persons". The complaint was not made by the Corporate Debtor

against the Appellant. Neither did the police complaint make mention of any

on-going dispute in this regard existing between the parties. Prima-facie, this

cannot be treated as a dispute inter se between the parties. 18. At this stage, it may be useful to notice certain contents of the police

complaint which finds place at page 308 of the Appeal Paper Book ('APB' in

short). To: Due to this extremely serious fraudulent act by the perpetrator[s],
 our Client's business activities have been seriously affected and
 the morale of our Client's employees has gone down considerably. 45. It is to be noted that the perpetrator[s] have committed serval
 offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code , 1860 and the Information Technology Act, 2000 . ....... We look forward to your urgent assistance and co-operation in this
 matter. Sincerely,

 Rodney D. Ryder,

 Mobile: 98110-13560

 (Emphasis supplied)

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 14 19. Thus, when the Respondent in their police complaint had expressly

admitted that the fraud was committed by an unknown third party and not

by the Appellant and did not make the Appellant an accused party in their

police complaint, the cyber fraud and the related police complaint cannot

constitute evidence of a pre-existing dispute inter se between the Operational

Creditor and Corporate Debtor. This brings us to the standpoint of the

Respondent that since the alleged impersonators were able to quote exact

amount and invoice numbers and even produce genuine authorisation letters,

it shows that such a fraud could not have been committed without complicity

of the Operational Creditor. Since the matter is already under police

investigations and there is no finality in the matter, attributing any culpability

on the employees of the Operational Creditor based on surmise and conjecture

of the Corporate Debtor would be pre-mature and highly presumptuous given

the summary jurisdiction of the Adjudicating Authority and this Appellate

Tribunal. We therefore do not wish to examine the above contention of the

Respondent that the perpetrators of the cyber fraud were assisted by

employees of the Operational Creditor. 20. We are also of the considered view that the Appellant cannot be held

responsible in any manner for the payment made by the Respondent into a

wrong bank account. When we see the reply affidavit of the Respondent as

placed at pages 13-14 thereof, we find that the Respondent has conceded that

while sending payments to the changed bank account details of the Appellant,

they have relied on emails which were not sent from the domain name of the

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 15 Appellant. The relevant excerpts from the reply affidavit is as reproduced

below: 21. There is force in the contention of the Appellant that since the Corporate

Debtor and the Operational Creditor were in a long-standing business

relationship, had the Corporate Debtor shown professional diligence and due

rigour, they would have been able to easily detect the suspicious emails and

averted the ensuing cyber fraud. This clearly shows the negligence and

carelessness on the part of the Respondent which led to the cyber fraud. This

is further corroborated by the fact that the Corporate Debtor has in their

Notice of Dispute dated 01.0.2019 vacillated on fixing responsibility on the

Appellant for the cyber fraud maybe seen at para 11 of the Notice of Dispute

at page 181 of APB which is extracted below: 22. In the backdrop of the foregoing discussion, we find that the

Adjudicating Authority wrongly dismissed the Section 9 application, in

complete disregard of evidence on record, by treating the cyber-fraud as a pre-

existing dispute between the parties while being singularly oblivious of the

role of unknown third-party perpetrators which cast serious doubts on the

plausibility of dispute inter se between the Appellant and the Respondent. 23. It is the case of the Appellant that the requirement of Section 9 of IBC

is that the Operational Creditor should have directly received their operational

dues. In the present case, the Corporate Debtor has made payments but

admittedly not to the correct account of the Operational Creditor and hence

such payment cannot be treated as discharge of liability. We also find that

the Corporate Debtor in their various communications have admitted their

liabilities. Even in their Notice of Dispute of 01.03.2019, they have

acknowledged an outstanding balance of Euro 111,887/- which was agreed

to be paid in monthly instalments of Euro 10,000/- only. Further the very

fact that much after the issue of the Demand Notice, an amount of Euro

49,664/- has been claimed to have been paid by the Corporate Debtor to the

Appellant as stated in their Reply Affidavit as placed at pages 26-27 shows

that they have acknowledged that outstanding operational debt qua the

Appellant was payable by them. Furthermore, we find that in the said Reply

affidavit of the Respondent, the Respondent has accepted and admitted that

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022 17 it owed the Appellant a sum of Euro 62,222/-. This acknowledgement in itself

is sufficient to satisfy existence of undisputed operational debt exceeding the

threshold level of Rs.1 lakh. 24. We notice that the Respondent has placed reliance on the judgment of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SS Engineers vs Hindustan Petroleum

Corporation Ltd , [2022] 18 SCR 391 wherein it has been held that if a debt

is disputed, the application of the Operational Creditor for initiation of CIRP

must be dismissed as the objective of the IBC is not to penalise solvent

companies for non-payment of disputed dues claimed by an Operational

Creditor. We have no reasons to disagree with the above judgment. However,

what the Respondent has failed to appreciate is that the overall tenor and

spirit of the principle of law as settled down in the judgment of S.S. Engineers supra is that if the claim of an Operational Creditor is undisputed and the

operational debt remains unpaid, CIRP must commence. 25. With the aforesaid discussion, we are of the considered view that the

Adjudicating Authority has erroneously rejected the application under Section

9 of IBC. We allow the appeal and set aside the impugned order with the

following directions :- [Justice Ashok Bhushan]
 Chairperson

 [Barun Mitra]
 Member (Technical)

Place: New Delhi
Date: 01.05.2024
Ashok Kumar

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1359 of 2022