1. This appeal under Section 38 of the Delhi Rent Control
Act assails order dated 29.06.2015 of the learned Additional Rent
Controller, whereby application of the appellant objector seeking to

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 1 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Date: 2. Briefly stated, circumstances leading to the present
appeal are as follows. 2.1 The present respondent no. 1, claiming himself to be the
landlord of shop No. 4767, Laxmi Bazar Cloth Market, Fatehpuri,
Delhi filed eviction petition under Section 14(1)(b) of the Delhi Rent
Control Act against the present respondent no. 2, who filed written
statement to the eviction petition, but failed to lead any evidence and
ultimately the eviction petition was allowed by the learned Additional
Rent Controller against the present respondent no. 2. 2.2 In the course of execution proceedings of the eviction
order, the appellant filed Objection Application under Section 25 of
the Delhi Rent Control Act. On deciphering the jumbled-up factual
matrix presented in the voluminous Objection Application with the
help of documents on record, broadly speaking, the case set up by the
appellant objector is found to be that for past more than 35 years, it is
the appellant objector who was tenant in a portion of the subject
property at a monthly rent of Rs. 20/-; that in his eviction petition, the
present respondent no. 1 had falsely alleged that the present
respondent no. 2 was the tenant and the appellant objector was the

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 2 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:03:14 +05'30'
 unauthorized subtenant in the subject property; that the present
respondent no. 1 and the present respondent no. 2 in collusion
obtained the eviction order against the appellant objector; that the
appellant objector became tenant in the subject property as
contemplated under Section 2(l) of the Delhi Rent Control Act as he
had been inducted as subtenant on the basis of written permission
given to the present respondent no. 2; that the appellant objector has
been running business from the subject premises under the name and
style M/s Mohinder Singh Gurdeep Singh, followed by M/s Tara
Singh Mohinder Singh since 1970; that in the year 1970, M/s
Mahaliram Lachhmandas, predecessor of the present respondent no. 1
had filed petition under Slum Areas (Improvement & Clearance) Act against the present respondent no.2 and in the said petition, it was
specifically stated that the subject property had already been sublet to
M/s Sheo Karan Dass Ram Saroop and then to M/s Mohinder Singh
Gurdeep Singh; that in the said Slum Areas Act proceedings, the
present respondent no.2 tenant appeared and a compromise dated
23.01.1973 was drawn, in which the erstwhile landlord consented that
the subject property be sublet to M/s Mohinder Singh Gurdeep Singh;
that the said Slum Areas Act petition was allowed to be withdrawn
vide order dated 27.02.1973; that in terms of their said compromise,
the previous tenant M/s Sheo Karan Dass Ram Saroop vacated the
subject property and the appellant objector was accepted as tenant in
respect of the subject property; that this fact was well within the
knowledge of the present respondent no.1, as after purchasing the
subject property from M/s Mahaliram Lachhmandas, he applied for
and received certified copies of records of the Slums Authority; that
since the present respondent no. 1 colluded with the present

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 3 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:02:55 +05'30'
 respondent no. 2 and played fraud upon the court to obtain eviction
order, the said eviction order is a nullity in the eyes of the law and is
liable to be set aside; that the appellant objector is in exclusive
possession of the subject property in his capacity as tenant under
permission of the erstwhile landlord from whom the eviction
petitioner allegedly purchased the subject property; that therefore the
objections of the appellant deserved to be allowed after determination
the rights of the appellant objector, holding that the eviction order
could not be executed in respect of the appellant objector. 2.3 The present respondent no. 1 filed reply to the Objection
Application, thereby denying the contents of the Objection
Application and pleaded that the entire story narrated by the appellant
objector was false as the appellant objector was always an illegal
subtenant inducted in the subject property unauthorizedly by the
tenant; that the appellant objector was always aware about the
pendency of the eviction proceedings against the present respondent
no. 2 and continued to clandestinely watch the same; that the appellant
objector was attempting to overreach the court and be put to strict
proof of all his allegations; that according to the present respondent
no. 1, except for the eviction petition which was decreed on
03.08.2002, he had not instituted any other eviction petition under the Delhi Rent Control Act against anyone qua the subject property; that
no compromise took place in any litigation and on 20.03.1973, no
erstwhile purported tenant M/s Sheo Karan Dass Ram Saroop vacated
the subject property and the appellant objector was not accepted as a
tenant or even as a subtenant under compromise recorded on
20.03.1973; that the present respondent no. 2 was never authorized to

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 4 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:02:37 +05'30'
 create subtenancy in respect of the subject property and the appellant
objector was illegally and unlawfully inducted as subtenant by the
present respondent no. 2; that the appellant objector would be bound
by the eviction order dated 03.08.2002, being an unauthorizedly
inducted subtenant and the Objection Application is liable to be
dismissed with exemplary cost. 2.4 In the backdrop of abovementioned rival objection
pleadings, the appellant objector filed an application under Order VI
Rule 17 CPC on 30.05.2014, seeking to amend the Objection
Application, which application was dismissed by way of the impugned
order. By way of the said amendment application, the appellant
objector pleaded that the records of the eviction proceedings
established that the present respondent no. 1 and the present
respondent no. 2 had colluded and played fraud in an effort to execute
the eviction order against more than 30 occupiers of the subject
property, who claim themselves to be tenants in their respective
portions; that the present respondent no. 1 never disclosed true facts
before the court and concealed vital documents regarding the
payment of rent; that the present respondent no. 1 also concealed the
filing of petition under Section 19 of the Slum Areas Act, in which
compromise had been arrived at in writing, whereby a written
permission was given by the then owner/landlord of the subject
property to induct the appellant objector as subtenant; that a copy of
the said compromise was being annexed with the amendment
application; that earlier, copy of the said compromise was not in
possession of the appellant objector, so the same could not be placed
before the court when the Objection Application was filed; that

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 5 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:02:17 +05'30'
 therefore, the appellant objector be permitted to incorporate further
facts in the Objection Application as regards the said compromise
whereunder permission to sublet was granted; that the said
amendment in the Objection Application is necessary for proper
determination of the dispute, therefore, the appellant objector be
allowed to amend the Objection Application. 2.5 The present respondent no. 1 filed reply to the
amendment application, opposing the same on the ground that the
amendment application has been brought much belatedly, with the
object to protract the proceedings; that the appellant objector is trying
to propound a new case by way of amendment; that the appellant
objector is trying to take the executing court behind the eviction order
which is not permissible; that the amendments sought are not relevant
and are of no assistance for adjudication of the Objection Application;
that the story of compromise setup by the appellant objector is
unbelievable and the documents sought to be filed in that regard are
fabricated, therefore the amendment application liable to be
dismissed. 2.6 The said amendment application of the appellant objector
was dismissed by the Additional Rent Controller by way of impugned
order, mainly on the grounds that since the permission to sublet was
sought subsequent to inducting the appellant objector as subtenant, the
alleged permission was non-consequential; that even in the said
compromise deed it is stated that the present respondent no. 2 had
prayed to the original owner/landlord for permission to induct a
subtenant in the year 1972 whereas according to the objector

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 6 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:01:59 +05'30'
 appellant, he is in possession since 1970, which shows that permission
to sublet was sought subsequent to subletting, therefore the document
is of no use; that the Objection Application was filed on 12.12.2006
and there is no explanation in the amendment application brought after
08 years as to what stopped the appellant objector from filing the
alleged compromise deed at the time of filing the Objection
Application or soon thereafter; that the document sought to be filed by
the appellant objector is neither original compromise deed nor
certified copy thereof and is simply a photocopy; and that no order of
the court has been filed to show that the said compromise deed was
accepted by the court, so taking on record the said document could
cause great prejudice to present respondent no. 1. 3. During final arguments, learned counsel for appellant
took me through the above material on record and contended that the
impugned order of dismissal of amendment application is not
sustainable in the eyes of law. It was argued by the learned counsel
for appellant that while adjudicating upon an amendment application
the court could not venture into deciding merits of the main dispute by
holding that permission to sublet sought in the year 1972 was non-
consequential. It was argued that the amendment was necessitated
because the present respondent no. 1 tried to play fraud on court by
obtaining a collusive eviction order and thereafter by falsely denying
the compromise arrived at between the parties. It was argued that
according to the settled legal position, delay in filing amendment
application cannot be a ground to reject the same. Learned counsel
for appellant also submitted that in the amendment application it had
been clearly explained that earlier the appellant was not in possession

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 7 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:01:37 +05'30'
 of the compromise deed. It was further argued that the issue whether
the compromise deed is a genuine document or a forged one could not
be decided without holding a trial, which was not done in the present
case. It was further argued by learned counsel for appellant that no
loss much less irreparable loss would be caused to the present
respondent no. 1 if the amendment application is allowed because the
present respondent no. 1 was already aware about the compromise but
did not file the same before the court. 4. On the other hand, learned counsel for respondent no. 1
referred to order dated 07.08.2015 of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
whereby with consent, it was held that the trial court could examine
the allegation of fraud, therefore, according to respondent no. 1 this
appeal is infructuous. Counsel for respondent no. 1 also referred to
order dated 18.11.2016 of the trial court whereby the present
respondent no. 1 gave no objection for filing those documents and that
being so, according to learned counsel for respondent no.1 there is no
scope for amendment of the Objection Application. 5. In rebuttal arguments, learned counsel for appellant
objector argued that mere filing of the document, which according to
respondent no. 1 is forged one, is not enough unless the pleadings also
are amended in an appropriate manner. It was argued that since the
learned Additional Rent Controller in the impugned order went on to
even deliver findings on merits, the appeal cannot be held to be
infructuous because of filing of the documents. RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 8 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:01:17 +05'30' 6. In support of his arguments, learned counsel for appellant
placed on record through emails a plethora of judicial pronouncements
on each aspect of law on amendment. For the sake of brevity, not each
of those precedents is being referred to herein, especially because
there is no dispute to the legal propositions as regards the stage at
which the amendment application can be brought, the issue of delay,
the issue of touching merits of the main dispute etc. However, some
of those cited judicial precedents, which are in context, are being cited
hereafter. 7. To recapitulate, according to the appellant objector, the
present respondent no. 1, claiming himself to be landlord colluded
with the present respondent no. 2 tenant and obtained eviction order
in the year 2002 concealing from the court that the appellant objector
had been inducted as subtenant into the subject property with consent
of the erstwhile owner. Since in reply to the Objection Application,
the present respondent no. 1 denied that the appellant objector had
been inducted as subtenant with consent of the erstwhile owner by
way of compromise during Slum Areas Act proceedings, the appellant
objector filed an application seeking to amend the Objection
Application in order to incorporate specific averments as regards the
said compromise and also sought to place on record a copy of the
compromise deed. The amendment application was dismissed by the
learned Additional Rent Controller mainly on two grounds. Firstly,
the learned Additional Rent Controller took a view that the
amendment application brought after 08 years could not be allowed
because the appellant objector had failed to explain as to why the copy
of compromise deed was not filed along with the Objection

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 9 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:00:57 +05'30'
 Application. Secondly, the learned Additional Rent Controller
delivered a finding that according to the case setup by the appellant
objector, he is in possession of the subject property since the year
1970 but the permission was obtained in the year 1972, therefore, the
compromise deed was non-consequential. 8. Accordingly, the questions to be examined in this appeal
are as to whether the amendment application of the appellant objector
was rightly dismissed on account of delay of 08 years in bringing the
same; whether the amendment application was rightly dismissed
holding the compromise deed to be a non-consequential document;
and whether the amendment application deserved to be allowed, as it
sought to only elaborate the plea already taken. 9. Historically speaking, on the recommendations of the
Committee of Hon'ble Justice Malimath in order to avoid delays in
disposal of suits, Order VI Rule 17 CPC was deleted by way of Code
of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1999. But because of public
uproar that followed, the provision was revived by way of Code of
Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2002 . However, in 2002, the
legislature added a proviso to Order VI Rule 17 CPC , mandating that
no amendment application shall be allowed after the trial has
commenced, unless the court comes to the conclusion that despite due
diligence, the applicant could not have raised the matter prior to the
commencement of the trial. 10. The basic principles for grant or refusal of the
amendment, articulated more than a century ago hold the field till date

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 10 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:00:37 +05'30'
 and are considered to be correct statement of law by superior courts.
The general principle is that the courts at any stage of the proceedings
may allow any party to amend the pleadings in such manner and on
such terms as may be just for determining the real question in
controversy between the parties. It is also well settled that the court
should be extremely liberal in granting prayer of amendment of
pleadings unless serious injustice or irreparable loss is caused to the
other side. It is true that amendment cannot be claimed as a matter of
right. But it is equally true that the courts while deciding such prayer
should not adopt hypertechnical approach. Liberal approach should
be the general rule particularly in the cases where the other side can be
compensated with costs. Amendments are allowed in the pleadings to
avoid uncalled for multiplicity of litigations. The first condition
which must be satisfied before the amendment can be allowed by the
court is whether such amendment is necessary for determination of the
real questions in controversy. If that condition is not satisfied,
amendment cannot be allowed and that is the basic test which should
govern the courts' discretion in grant or refusal of the amendment.
Where it appears to the court that the amendment sought is not a
bonafide request, the same should be declined. 11. In the case of Atul Maini Chopra vs Adarsh Bhalla ,
2005 (119) DLT 593, an Hon'ble Single Judge (as his Lordship at that
time was) on the Original side of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
allowed an amendment application observing that there was nothing in
the proposed amendment which could possibly be said to introduce
either a new cause of action or to change the nature of the suit or the
controversy therein since all that the amendment aimed at was to

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 11 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 13:00:19 +05'30'
 assert that the funds for the purchase of the suit property did in fact
flow from the father of the parties, so there was no justification to
decline the amendment prayed for. Further, the Hon'ble Single Judge
rejected the opposition to the amendment application on the ground of
inordinate delay of ten years observing that there indeed is some delay
having regard to the fact that the suit was filed somewhere in the year
1994 but the delay in the filing the amendment application occurred
on account of exigencies of service of the plaintiff and consequent
loss of proper contact with the counsel. The Hon'ble Single Judge
further held that while examining an amendment application, the court
is not required to consider the proposed amendment on its merits and
all that is to be seen is whether the amendment changes the nature of
the suit or introduces a new cause of action. 12. In the case of Sampath Kumar vs Ayyakannu & Anr ,
2002(7) SCC 559, the Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterated that Order VI
Rule 17 CPC confers jurisdiction on the court to allow either party to
alter or amend its pleadings at any stage of the proceedings and such
amendments as are directed towards determination of the real
questions in controversy between the parties shall be permitted to be
made. The Hon'ble Supreme Court further reiterated that the question
of delay in moving an amendment application should be decided not
by calculating the period from the date of institution of the suit alone
but by reference to the stage to which the hearing in the suit has
proceeded and that pre-trial amendments are allowed more liberally
than those which are sought to be made after the commencement of
the trial or after conclusion thereof, but no strait jacket formula can be

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 12 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:59:56 +05'30'
 laid down and the fact remains that a mere delay cannot be a ground to
refuse a prayer for amendment. 13. In the case of B.K. Narayana Pillai vs Parameswaran
Pillai & Anr , 2000(1) SCC 712, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
recapitulated the legal position as regards amendment of pleadings
and reiterated that all amendments of the pleadings should be allowed
which are necessary for determination of the real controversies in the
suit provided the proposed amendment does not alter or substitute a
new cause of action on the basis of which the original lis was raised or
defence was taken. It was further reiterated by the Apex Court that
delay in filing an amendment application should be properly
compensated by costs and error or mistake which, if not fraudulent,
should not be made a ground for rejecting the application for
amendment. 14. In the case of Olympic Industries vs Mulla Hussainy
Bhai Mulla Akberally & Ors. , 2009 (10) SCR 338, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court reiterated the well settled legal position that mere
delay in filing an amendment application is not sufficient to decline
amendment request and that where the amendment sought has a
bearing on the real controversy between the parties, courts should be
generous in allowing the amendments. 15. In the case of LT Foods Ltd. vs Sachdeva & Sons Rice
Mills Ltd. , 2014 (215) DLT 39, the Hon'ble Division Bench of the
Delhi High Court recapitulated the legal position on the issue of

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 13 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:59:35 +05'30'
 amendments of pleadings after traversing through various judicial
precedents and held thus : 16. In the case of Saif-Ul-Islam Company, L.P. vs Roshan
Lal Arora & Anr. , 2003 (102) DLT 692, the Hon'ble Single Judge of

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 15 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:58:51 +05'30'
 the Delhi High Court reiterated the legal position related to Order VI
Rule 17 CPC and held that mere delay and laches in making an
amendment application is not a good ground for refusal of the
amendment where the amendment applicant does not set up a new
case or cause of action; that hypertechnical approach while dealing
with an amendment application should not be adopted; and that all
amendment of the pleadings should be allowed which are necessary
for determination of the real controversies in the suit, provided the
proposed amendment does not alter or substitute a new cause of
action. In the said case the Hon'ble High Court observed that the
amendments sought had been necessitated on account of the facts
stated in the written statements by the defendants and the documents
filed along with the written statements. 17. In the case of Surender Kumar Sharma vs Makhan
Singh , 2009 (10) SCC 626, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that even
if an amendment application was filed belatedly, such belated
amendment cannot be refused if it is found that for deciding real
controversy between the parties it can be allowed on payment of costs. 18. In the case M/s Estralla Rubber vs Dass Estate (Pvt.)
Ltd., CA No. 6327/01 decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on
12.09.2001, the Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterated the legal position
that the amendment of the pleadings under Order VI Rule 17 CPC is
to be allowed if such amendment is required for proper and effective
adjudication of the controversy between the parties and to avoid
multiplicity of judicial proceedings subject to certain conditions such
as allowing amendment should not result in injustice to the other side. RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 16 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:58:32 +05'30'
 The Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed that the proposed
amendment in the said case was to elaborate the defence and to take
additional plea in support of its case and looking into the proposed
amendments it was clear that it was required for proper adjudication
of the controversy between the parties and to avoid multiplicity of
judicial proceedings. 19. In the case of Ramesh Kumar Agarwal vs Rajmala
Exports Pvt. Ltd. , 2012 (5) SC 337, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reiterated that since by proposed amendment, plaintiff only wanted to
explain how the money was paid, though necessary averment in the
form of foundation had already been laid in the original plaint and
there was no alteration of cause of action, the amendment deserved to
be allowed. 20. In the case Hitesh Bhardwaj vs Shiksha Bharti
Educational Society , 2021 LAWPACK (Delhi) 84630, the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court reiterated that while considering an amendment
application, merits of the plea incorporated are not to be assessed at
all. 21. In the case of Bhasin Tobaccos Ltd. & Ors. vs Gambro
Nexim (India) Medical Ltd. , 2017 (10) AD (Delhi) 239, the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court reiterated that while allowing amendment the court
should not delve upon the correctness or falsity of the case in the
amendment, and the merits of the amendment sought to be
incorporated are not to be adjudged at this stage as the same would
require a trial. RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 17 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:58:11 +05'30' 22. Similarly, in the case of Vaishali Gaur & Anr. vs Sanjay
Sharma , 2014(210) DLT 229, the Hon'ble Single Judge on the
Original Side of the Delhi High Court reiterated that while considering
an application for amendment, the court is not to examine the merits
of the amendment or to consider the strength or weakness of the case
of the amendment applicant. 23. One of the numerous judicial pronouncements from the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, laying down the parameters for
deciding the grant or refusal of amendment of pleadings is the case of Revajeetu Builders & Developers vs Narayanswamy & Sons & Ors. (2009) 10 SCC 84, in which the factors to be taken into consideration
were enumerated as follows : These are some of the important factors which may be
 kept in mind while dealing with the application filed
 under Order 6 Rule 17 CPC . These are only illustrative
 and not exhaustive." In the said case the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held that the first
condition which must be satisfied before the amendment can be
allowed by the court is whether such amendment is necessary for
determination of the real question in controversy and if that condition
is not satisfied, the amendment cannot be allowed. The Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India specifically observed that real controversy
test is the basic test which should govern the courts' discretion in grant
or refusal of the amendment. 24. In the case of Subhash Chand Sethi vs J.K. Jain, {CM
(M ) 790/2015, decided by Hon'ble Ms. Justice Pratibha Rani of the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court on 12.10.2015} also, the Hon'ble Delhi
High Court invoked the real controversy test while observing that the
question which requires consideration by the court is whether the
proposed amendment at the stage of cross-examination of plaintiff
was necessary for adjudication of issue in controversy between the
parties. 25. In the case of L.C. Hanumanthappa (since dead) by his LRs vs H.B. Shivakumar, {Civil Appeal no. 6595/15, arising out of
SLP (Civil) No. 15513 of 2015, decided by the bench of Hon'ble Mr.

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 19 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:57:32 +05'30'
 Justice A.K. Sikri on 26.08.2015}, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India observed thus : 26. Falling back to the present case, what is to be seen is as
to whether the amendment sought by the appellant objector before the
learned execution court was necessary for determination of real
questions in controversy. At the cost of repetition, it is to be noted that
in the Objection Application filed during execution proceedings of the

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 20 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:57:12 +05'30'
 eviction order under Section 14(1)(b) of the Delhi Rent Control Act,
the appellant objector alleged that he had been inducted as subtenant
into the subject property with the consent of the erstwhile owner in the
course of the compromise recorded before the Slums Authority, which
stand of the appellant objector was disputed by the present respondent
no. 1 landlord to the extent of flatly denying that any compromise or
even proceedings before the Slums Authority took place. That being
so, in my considered opinion, it cannot be denied that the real question
in controversy in the adjudication of the objections was as to whether
the appellant objector was a lawful subtenant in the subject property
and as to whether the present respondents had colluded with each
other and obtained eviction order by playing fraud upon the court.
The proposed amendment, whereby the appellant objector sought
permission to incorporate a paragraph in the Objection Application in
order to elaborate the compromise proceedings, is certainly a
necessary pleading in order to determine the real questions in
controversy. In other words, the proposed amendment cannot be
rejected as being not necessary for determination of real questions in
controversy. 27. As regards delay in seeking amendment and answer to
the observation of the learned trial court qua the explanation for the
appellant objector not having filed a copy of the compromise with the
Objection Application, it is clear stand of the appellant objector in the
amendment application that earlier he was not in possession of the
compromise and in the absence of any material to the contrary, this
explanation of the appellant objector ought not to have been ignored.
On the contrary, it needs to be examined as to whether by way of

RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 21 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:56:54 +05'30'
 application dated 08.05.1986 (copy whereof has been placed on record
by the appellant objector) the present respondent no.1 obtained
certified copies of the said compromise dated 23.01.1973 and
ordersheets of the Slums Authority but concealed the same from the
trial court to obtain an eviction order. 28. The question as to whether the alleged consent in the year
1972 to sublet validated the subtenancy and possession of the
appellant objector with effect from 1970 is a question touching the
merits of the proposed amendment, which could not have been
examined by the learned trial court while dealing with the amendment
application of the appellant objector. 29. In his amendment application, the appellant objector
sought permission to insert only one clause in the Objection
Application, which clause only explained as to how the appellant
objector claims himself to be a lawful tenant. The amendment sought
by the appellant objector was only elaborative in nature and it is
nobody's case that allowing the amendment would have changed the
nature of the proceedings or cause of action. Therefore, there was no
reason for the learned trial court to decline the amendment request of
the appellant objector. 30. In view of above discussion, I am unable to uphold the
impugned order, so the same is set aside and amendment application
of the appellant objector is allowed with the direction to the appellant
to file Amended Objection Application before the learned Additional
Rent Controller within two weeks. RCT No 130/2019 Tara Singh vs Padam Chand Vaish Page 22 of 23 pages
 GIRISH KATHPALIA Digitally signed by GIRISH KATHPALIA
 Date: 2022.01.27 12:56:31 +05'30' 31. Accordingly, the appeal stands allowed. Trial Court
Record be sent back with a copy of this judgment and appeal file be
consigned to records, leaving the parties bear their own costs.