R.F. NARIMAN, J. 1. This batch of writ petitions filed under Article 32 of the

 Constitution of India raises very important and far-reaching

 questions relatable primarily to the fundamental right of free Signature Not Verified speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Digitally signed by Om Parkash Sharma Date: 2015.03.24 Constitution of India. The immediate cause for concern in these 13:27:50 IST Reason: petitions is Section 66A of the Information Technology Act of 2000. 2 This Section was not in the Act as originally enacted, but came into

force by virtue of an Amendment Act of 2009 with effect from

27.10.2009. Since all the arguments raised by several counsel for

the petitioners deal with the unconstitutionality of this Section it is

set out hereinbelow: Explanation.— For the purposes of this section, terms
 “electronic mail” and “electronic mail message” means
 a message or information created or transmitted or
 received on a computer, computer system, computer
 resource or communication device including
 attachments in text, image, audio, video and any other 3 electronic record, which may be transmitted with the
 message.”1 2. A related challenge is also made to Section 69A introduced

 by the same amendment which reads as follows:- (b)sends any message by telephone, or any telegram, which he knows to be false, for the
purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety to any other person ; or (c)persistently makes telephone calls without reasonable cause and for any such purpose as
aforesaid,
 he shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding ten pounds, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month, or to both. This Section in turn was replaced by Section 49 of the British Telecommunication Act, 1981 and
Section 43 of the British Telecommunication Act, 1984. In its present form in the UK, it is Section 127 of the
Telecommunication Act, 2003 which is relevant and which is as follows:- (a) sends by means of a public electronic communications network a message
 or other matter that is grossly offensive or of an indecent, obscene or menacing
 character; or (b) cause any such message or matter to be so sent.
 (2) A person is guilty of an offence if, for the purpose of causing annoyance,
 inconvenience or needless anxiety to another, he- conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not
 exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or to both.
 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to anything done in the course of
 providing a programme service (within the meaning of the Broadcasting Act
 1990 (c.42)). cognizable offence relating to above, it may subject to
 the provisions of sub-section (2), for reasons to be
 recorded in writing, by order, direct any agency of the
 Government or intermediary to block for access by the
 public or cause to be blocked for access by the public
 any information generated, transmitted, received,
 stored or hosted in any computer resource. (2) The procedure and safeguards subject to which
 such blocking for access by the public may be carried
 out, shall be such as may be prescribed. (3) The intermediary who fails to comply with the
 direction issued under sub-section (1) shall be
 punished with an imprisonment for a term which may
 extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.” 3. The Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill

which introduced the Amendment Act stated in paragraph 3 that: 4. The petitioners contend that the very basis of Section 66A -

that it has given rise to new forms of crimes - is incorrect, and that Sections 66B to 67C and various Sections of the Indian Penal

Code (which will be referred to hereinafter) are good enough to

deal with all these crimes. 5. The petitioners’ various counsel raised a large number of

points as to the constitutionality of Section 66A . According to

them, first and foremost Section 66A infringes the fundamental

right to free speech and expression and is not saved by any of the

eight subjects covered in Article 19(2). According to them, the

causing of annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult,

injury, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred or ill-will are all outside

the purview of Article 19(2). Further, in creating an offence, Section 66A suffers from the vice of vagueness because unlike the

offence created by Section 66 of the same Act, none of the

aforesaid terms are even attempted to be defined and cannot be

defined, the result being that innocent persons are roped in as well

as those who are not. Such persons are not told clearly on which

side of the line they fall; and it would be open to the authorities to

be as arbitrary and whimsical as they like in booking such persons

under the said Section. In fact, a large number of innocent

persons have been booked and many instances have been given

in the form of a note to the Court. The enforcement of the said

Section would really be an insidious form of censorship which

impairs a core value contained in Article 19(1)(a). In addition, the

said Section has a chilling effect on the freedom of speech and

expression. Also, the right of viewers is infringed as such chilling 6 effect would not give them the benefit of many shades of grey in

terms of various points of view that could be viewed over the

internet. The petitioners also contend that their rights under Articles

14 and 21 are breached inasmuch there is no intelligible differentia

between those who use the internet and those who by words

spoken or written use other mediums of communication. To punish

somebody because he uses a particular medium of

communication is itself a discriminatory object and would fall foul

of Article 14 in any case. 6. In reply, Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor

General defended the constitutionality of Section 66A . He argued

that the legislature is in the best position to understand and

appreciate the needs of the people. The Court will, therefore,

interfere with the legislative process only when a statute is clearly

violative of the rights conferred on the citizen under Part-III of the

Constitution. There is a presumption in favour of the

constitutionality of an enactment. Further, the Court would so

construe a statute to make it workable and in doing so can read

into it or read down the provisions that are impugned. The

Constitution does not impose impossible standards of determining

validity. Mere possibility of abuse of a provision cannot be a 7 ground to declare a provision invalid. Loose language may have

been used in Section 66A to deal with novel methods of disturbing

other people’s rights by using the internet as a tool to do so.

Further, vagueness is not a ground to declare a statute

unconstitutional if the statute is otherwise legislatively competent

and non-arbitrary. He cited a large number of judgments before us

both from this Court and from overseas to buttress his

submissions. Freedom of Speech and Expression Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India states as follows: 7. Article 19(2) states: 8. The Preamble of the Constitution of India inter alia speaks of

liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship. It also 8 says that India is a sovereign democratic republic. It cannot be

 over emphasized that when it comes to democracy, liberty of

 thought and expression is a cardinal value that is of paramount

 significance under our constitutional scheme. 9. Various judgments of this Court have referred to the

 importance of freedom of speech and expression both from the

 point of view of the liberty of the individual and from the point of

 view of our democratic form of government. For example, in the

 early case of Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras , [1950] S.C.R.

 594 at 602, this Court stated that freedom of speech lay at the

 foundation of all democratic organizations. In Sakal Papers (P)

 Ltd. & Ors. v. Union of India , [1962] 3 S.C.R. 842 at 866, a

 Constitution Bench of this Court said freedom of speech and

 expression of opinion is of paramount importance under a

 democratic constitution which envisages changes in the

 composition of legislatures and governments and must be

 preserved. In a separate concurring judgment Beg,J. said, in Bennett Coleman & Co. & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. , [1973]

 2 S.C.R. 757 at 829, that the freedom of speech and of the press

 is the Ark of the Covenant of Democracy because public criticism

 is essential to the working of its institutions. 2 2 Incidentally, the Ark of the Covenant is perhaps the single most important focal point in Judaism. The
original ten commandments which the Lord himself gave to Moses was housed in a wooden chest which was gold plated
and called the Ark of the Covenant and carried by the Jews from place to place until it found its final repose in the first 9 10. Equally, in S. Khushboo v. Kanniamal & Anr. , (2010) 5

 SCC 600 this Court stated, in paragraph 45 that the importance of

 freedom of speech and expression though not absolute was

 necessary as we need to tolerate unpopular views. This right

 requires the free flow of opinions and ideas essential to sustain the

 collective life of the citizenry. While an informed citizenry is a

 pre-condition for meaningful governance, the culture of open

 dialogue is generally of great societal importance. 11. This last judgment is important in that it refers to the “market

 place of ideas” concept that has permeated American Law. This

 was put in the felicitous words of Justice Holmes in his famous

 dissent in Abrams v. United States, 250 US 616 (1919), thus: 12. Justice Brandeis in his famous concurring judgment in

 Whitney v. California, 71 L. Ed. 1095 said: 13. This leads us to a discussion of what is the content of the

 expression “freedom of speech and expression”. There are three

 concepts which are fundamental in understanding the reach of this

 most basic of human rights. The first is discussion, the second is

 advocacy, and the third is incitement. Mere discussion or even

 advocacy of a particular cause howsoever unpopular is at the

 heart of Article 19(1)(a). It is only when such discussion or

 advocacy reaches the level of incitement that Article 19(2) kicks

 in.3 It is at this stage that a law may be made curtailing the speech 3 A good example of the difference between advocacy and incitement is Mark Antony’s speech in Shakespeare’s
immortal classic Julius Caesar. Mark Antony begins cautiously. Brutus is chastised for calling Julius Caesar ambitious
and is repeatedly said to be an “honourable man”. He then shows the crowd Caesar’s mantle and describes who struck 12 or expression that leads inexorably to or tends to cause public

 disorder or tends to cause or tends to affect the sovereignty &

 integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with

 foreign States, etc. Why it is important to have these three

 concepts in mind is because most of the arguments of both

 petitioners and respondents tended to veer around the expression

 “public order”. 14. It is at this point that a word needs to be said about the use

 of American judgments in the context of Article 19(1)(a). In

 virtually every significant judgment of this Court, reference has

 been made to judgments from across the Atlantic. Is it safe to do

 so? 15. It is significant to notice first the differences between the US

Caesar where. It is at this point, after the interjection of two citizens from the crowd, that Antony says- “ANTONY- Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
 To such a sudden flood of mutiny. They that have done this deed are honourable: 16. Insofar as the first apparent difference is concerned, the U.S.

Supreme Court has never given literal effect to the declaration that

Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech.

The approach of the Court which is succinctly stated in one of the

early U.S. Supreme Court Judgments, continues even today. In

Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 86 L. Ed. 1031, Justice Murphy

who delivered the opinion of the Court put it thus:- 17. So far as the second apparent difference is concerned, the

American Supreme Court has included “expression” as part of

freedom of speech and this Court has included “the press” as

being covered under Article 19(1)(a) , so that, as a matter of judicial

interpretation, both the US and India protect the freedom of

speech and expression as well as press freedom. Insofar as

abridgement and reasonable restrictions are concerned, both the

U.S. Supreme Court and this Court have held that a restriction in

order to be reasonable must be narrowly tailored or narrowly

interpreted so as to abridge or restrict only what is absolutely

necessary. It is only when it comes to the eight subject matters 15 that there is a vast difference. In the U.S., if there is a compelling

necessity to achieve an important governmental or societal goal, a

law abridging freedom of speech may pass muster. But in India,

such law cannot pass muster if it is in the interest of the general

public. Such law has to be covered by one of the eight subject

matters set out under Article 19(2). If it does not, and is outside

the pale of 19(2), Indian courts will strike down such law. 18. Viewed from the above perspective, American judgments

have great persuasive value on the content of freedom of speech

and expression and the tests laid down for its infringement. It is

only when it comes to sub-serving the general public interest that

there is the world of a difference. This is perhaps why in Kameshwar Prasad & Ors. v. The State of Bihar & Anr. , 1962

Supp. (3) S.C.R. 369, this Court held: 19. But when it comes to understanding the impact and content

of freedom of speech, in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay)

Private Limited & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. , (1985) 2 SCR

287, Venkataramiah,J. stated: A. Article 19(1)(a) – Section 66A has been challenged on the ground that it casts

the net very wide – “all information” that is disseminated over the

internet is included within its reach. It will be useful to note that 17 Section 2(v) of Information Technology Act, 2000 defines

information as follows: In this regard, the observations of Justice Jackson in

American Communications Association v. Douds, 94 L. Ed.

925 are apposite: In The Superintendent, Central Prison, Fatehgarh v. Ram

Manohar Lohia , [1960] 2 S.C.R. 821, this Court laid down: The said mediums have inbuilt limitations i.e. a person
will have to buy / borrow a newspaper and / or will
have to go to a theater to watch a movie. For television
also one needs at least a room where a television is
placed and can only watch those channels which he
has subscribed and that too only at a time where it is
being telecast. While in case of an internet a person
abusing the internet, can commit an offence at any
place at the time of his choice and maintaining his
anonymity in almost all cases. (ix) In case of other mediums, it is impossible to
maintain anonymity as a result of which speech ideal
opinions films having serious potential of creating a
social disorder never gets generated since its origin is
bound to be known. While in case of an internet mostly
its abuse takes place under the garb of anonymity
which can be unveiled only after thorough
investigation. (x) In case of other mediums like newspapers,
television or films, the approach is always
institutionalized approach governed by industry
specific ethical norms of self conduct. Each newspaper
/ magazine / movie production house / TV Channel will
have their own institutionalized policies in house which
would generally obviate any possibility of the medium
being abused. As against that use of internet is solely
based upon individualistic approach of each individual
without any check, balance or regulatory ethical norms
for exercising freedom of speech and expression under Article 19[ 1] [ a]. (xi) In the era limited to print media and
cinematograph; or even in case of publication through
airwaves, the chances of abuse of freedom of
expression was less due to inherent infrastructural and
logistical constrains. In the case of said mediums, it
was almost impossible for an individual to create and
publish an abusive content and make it available to
trillions of people. Whereas, in the present internet age
the said infrastructural and logistical constrains have
disappeared as any individual using even a smart
mobile phone or a portable computer device can 26 create and publish abusive material on its own, without
 seeking help of anyone else and make it available to
 trillions of people by just one click.” 28. As stated, all the above factors may make a distinction

between the print and other media as opposed to the internet and

the legislature may well, therefore, provide for separate offences

so far as free speech over the internet is concerned. There is,

therefore, an intelligible differentia having a rational relation to the

object sought to be achieved – that there can be creation of

offences which are applied to free speech over the internet alone

as opposed to other mediums of communication. Thus, an Article

14 challenge has been repelled by us on this ground later in this

judgment. But we do not find anything in the features outlined by

the learned Additional Solicitor General to relax the Court’s

scrutiny of the curbing of the content of free speech over the

internet. While it may be possible to narrowly draw a Section

creating a new offence, such as Section 69A for instance, relatable

only to speech over the internet, yet the validity of such a law will

have to be tested on the touchstone of the tests already indicated

above. 29. In fact, this aspect was considered in Secretary Ministry of

Information & Broadcasting, Government of India v. Cricket

Association of Bengal , (1995) 2 SCC 161 in para 37, where the 27 following question was posed: 30. In Article 19(2) (as it originally stood) this sub-head was

conspicuously absent. Because of its absence, challenges made

to an order made under Section 7 of the Punjab Maintenance of

Public Order Act and to an order made under Section 9 (1)(a) of

the Madras Maintenance of Public Order Act were allowed in two

early judgments by this Court. Thus in Romesh Thappar v. State

of Madras , [1950] S.C.R. 594, this Court held that an order made

under Section 9(1)(a) of the Madras Maintenance of Public Order

Act (XXIII of 1949) was unconstitutional and void in that it could

not be justified as a measure connected with security of the State.

While dealing with the expression “public order”, this Court held

that “public order” is an expression which signifies a state of

tranquility which prevails amongst the members of a political

society as a result of the internal regulations enforced by the

Government which they have established. 31. Similarly, in Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. State of Delhi , [1950]

S.C.R. 605, an order made under Section 7 of the East Punjab

Public Safety Act, 1949, was held to be unconstitutional and void

for the self-same reason. 32. As an aftermath of these judgments, the Constitution First 30 Amendment added the words “public order” to Article 19(2). 33. In Superintendent, Central Prison, Fatehgarh v. Ram

Manohar Lohia , [1960] 2 S.C.R. 821, this Court held that public

order is synonymous with public safety and tranquility; it is the

absence of disorder involving breaches of local significance in

contradistinction to national upheavals, such as revolution, civil

strife, war, affecting the security of the State. This definition was

further refined in Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar &

Ors. , [1966] 1 S.C.R. 709, where this Court held: 34. In Arun Ghosh v. State of West Bengal , [1970] 3 S.C.R.

288, Ram Manohar Lohia’s case was referred to with approval in

the following terms: 35. This decision lays down the test that has to be formulated in

all these cases. We have to ask ourselves the question: does a

particular act lead to disturbance of the current life of the

community or does it merely affect an individual leaving the

tranquility of society undisturbed? Going by this test, it is clear that 33 Section 66A is intended to punish any person who uses the

internet to disseminate any information that falls within the

sub-clauses of Section 66A . It will be immediately noticed that the

recipient of the written word that is sent by the person who is

accused of the offence is not of any importance so far as this

Section is concerned. (Save and except where under sub-clause (c) the addressee or recipient is deceived or misled about the

origin of a particular message.) It is clear, therefore, that the

information that is disseminated may be to one individual or

several individuals. The Section makes no distinction between

mass dissemination and dissemination to one person. Further, the

Section does not require that such message should have a clear

tendency to disrupt public order. Such message need not have any

potential which could disturb the community at large. The nexus

between the message and action that may be taken based on the

message is conspicuously absent – there is no ingredient in this

offence of inciting anybody to do anything which a reasonable man

would then say would have the tendency of being an immediate

threat to public safety or tranquility. On all these counts, it is clear

that the Section has no proximate relationship to public order

whatsoever. The example of a guest at a hotel `annoying’ girls is

telling – this Court has held that mere `annoyance’ need not cause 34 disturbance of public order. Under Section 66A , the offence is

complete by sending a message for the purpose of causing

annoyance, either `persistently’ or otherwise without in any

manner impacting public order. Clear and present danger – tendency to affect. 36. It will be remembered that Justice Holmes in Schenck v.

United States, 63 L. Ed. 470 enunciated the clear and present

danger test as follows: 37. This was further refined in Abrams v. Unites States 250

U.S. 616 (1919), this time in a Holmesian dissent, to be clear and

imminent danger. However, in most of the subsequent judgments

of the U.S. Supreme Court, the test has been understood to mean

to be “clear and present danger”. The test of “clear and present

danger” has been used by the U.S. Supreme Court in many

varying situations and has been adjusted according to varying fact 35 situations. It appears to have been repeatedly applied, see-

 Terminiello v. City of Chicago 93 L. Ed. 1131 (1949) at page

 1134-1135, Brandenburg v. Ohio 23 L. Ed. 2d 430 (1969) at

 434-435 & 436, Virginia v. Black 155 L. Ed. 2d 535 (2003) at

 page 551, 552 and 5534. 38. We have echoes of it in our law as well S. Rangarajan v. P.

 Jagjivan & Ors. , (1989) 2 SCC 574 at paragraph 45: 39. This Court has used the expression “tendency” to a particular

act. Thus, in State of Bihar v. Shailabala Devi , [1952] S.C.R.

654, an early decision of this Court said that an article, in order to

be banned must have a tendency to excite persons to acts of

violence (at page 662-663). The test laid down in the said decision was that the article should be considered as a whole in a fair free

liberal spirit and then it must be decided what effect it would have

on the mind of a reasonable reader. (at pages 664-665) 40. In Ramji Lal Modi v. The State of U.P. , [1957] S.C.R. 860 at

page 867, this court upheld Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code

only because it was read down to mean that aggravated forms of

insults to religion must have a tendency to disrupt public order. Similarly, in Kedar Nath Singh v. State of Bihar , 1962 Supp. (2)

S.C.R. 769, Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code was upheld by

construing it narrowly and stating that the offence would only be

complete if the words complained of have a tendency of creating

public disorder by violence. It was added that merely creating

disaffection or creating feelings of enmity in certain people was not

good enough or else it would violate the fundamental right of free

speech under Article 19(1)(a). Again, in Dr. Ramesh Yeshwant

Prabhoo v. Prabhakar Kashinath Kunte & Ors. , 1996 (1) SCC 37 130, Section 123 (3A) of the Representation of People Act was

upheld only if the enmity or hatred that was spoken about in the

Section would tend to create immediate public disorder and not

otherwise. 41. Viewed at either by the standpoint of the clear and present

danger test or the tendency to create public disorder, Section 66A would not pass muster as it has no element of any tendency to

create public disorder which ought to be an essential ingredient of

the offence which it creates. Defamation 42. Defamation is defined in Section 499 of the Penal Code as

follows: 43. It will be noticed that for something to be defamatory, injury

to reputation is a basic ingredient. Section 66A does not concern

itself with injury to reputation. Something may be grossly offensive

and may annoy or be inconvenient to somebody without at all

affecting his reputation. It is clear therefore that the Section is not

aimed at defamatory statements at all. Incitement to an offence: 44. Equally, Section 66A has no proximate connection with

incitement to commit an offence. Firstly, the information

disseminated over the internet need not be information which

“incites” anybody at all. Written words may be sent that may be

purely in the realm of “discussion” or “advocacy” of a “particular

point of view”. Further, the mere causing of annoyance, 39 inconvenience, danger etc., or being grossly offensive or having a

menacing character are not offences under the Penal Code at all.

They may be ingredients of certain offences under the Penal Code

but are not offences in themselves. For these reasons, Section

66A has nothing to do with “incitement to an offence”. As Section

66A severely curtails information that may be sent on the internet

based on whether it is grossly offensive, annoying, inconvenient,

etc. and being unrelated to any of the eight subject matters under Article 19(2) must, therefore, fall foul of Article 19(1)(a) , and not

being saved under Article 19(2) , is declared as unconstitutional.

Decency or Morality 45. This Court in Ranjit Udeshi v. State of Maharashtra [1965]

1 S.C.R. 65 took a rather restrictive view of what would pass

muster as not being obscene. The Court followed the test laid

down in the old English judgment in Hicklin’s case which was

whether the tendency of the matter charged as obscene is to

deprave and corrupt those whose minds are open to such immoral

influences and into whose hands a publication of this sort may fall.

Great strides have been made since this decision in the UK,

United States as well as in our country. Thus, in Director

General, Directorate General of Doordarshan v. Anand

Patwardhan , 2006 (8) SCC 433, this Court noticed the law in the 40 United States and said that a material may be regarded as

obscene if the average person applying contemporary community

standards would find that the subject matter taken as a whole

appeals to the prurient interest and that taken as a whole it

otherwise lacks serious literary artistic, political, educational or

scientific value (see Para 31). 46. In a recent judgment of this Court, Aveek Sarkar v. State of

West Bengal , 2014 (4) SCC 257, this Court referred to English,

U.S. and Canadian judgments and moved away from the Hicklin

test and applied the contemporary community standards test. 47. What has been said with regard to public order and

incitement to an offence equally applies here. Section 66A cannot

possibly be said to create an offence which falls within the

expression ‘decency’ or ‘morality’ in that what may be grossly

offensive or annoying under the Section need not be obscene at

all – in fact the word ‘obscene’ is conspicuous by its absence in Section 66A . 48. However, the learned Additional Solicitor General asked us

to read into Section 66A each of the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) in order to save the constitutionality of the provision.

We are afraid that such an exercise is not possible for the simple 41 reason that when the legislature intended to do so, it provided for

some of the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) in Section

69A . We would be doing complete violence to the language of Section 66A if we were to read into it something that was never

intended to be read into it. Further, he argued that the statute

should be made workable, and the following should be read into Section 66A : Ohio 395 U.S. 444 (1969); (iii) Information which may constitute credible threats of
 violence to the person or damage; (iv) Information which stirs the public to anger, invites
 violent disputes brings about condition of violent unrest
 and disturbances; Terminiello v. Chicago 337 US 1 (1949) (v) Information which advocates or teaches the duty,
 necessity or proprietary of violence as a means of
 accomplishing political, social or religious reform 42 and/or justifies commissioning of violent acts with an
intent to exemplify glorify such violent means to
accomplish political, social, economical or religious
reforms
[Whitney vs. California 274 US 357]; (vi) Information which contains fighting or abusive
material; Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U.S. 568 (1942) (vii) Information which promotes hate speech i.e. (a)Information which propagates hatred towards
 individual or a groups, on the basis of race,
 religion, religion, casteism, ethnicity, (b)Information which is intended to show the
 supremacy of one particular religion/race/caste
 by making disparaging, abusive and/or highly
 inflammatory remarks against religion/race/caste. (c) Information depicting religious deities, holy
 persons, holy symbols, holy books which are
 created to insult or to show contempt or lack of
 reverence for such religious deities, holy
 persons, holy symbols, holy books or towards
 something which is considered sacred or
 inviolable. (viii) Satirical or iconoclastic cartoon and caricature
which fails the test laid down in Hustler Magazine,
Inc. v. Falwell 485 U. S. 46 (1988) (ix) Information which glorifies terrorism and use of
drugs; (x) Information which infringes right of privacy of the
others and includes acts of cyber bullying, harassment
or stalking. (xi) Information which is obscene and has the tendency
to arouse feeling or revealing an overt sexual desire
and should be suggestive of deprave mind and
designed to excite sexual passion in persons who are 43 likely to see it. Aveek Sarkar and Anr. vs. State of West Bengal
 and Ors. (2014) 4 SCC 257. (xii) Context and background test of obscenity.
 Information which is posted in such a context or
 background which has a consequential effect of
 outraging the modesty of the pictured individual. Aveek Sarkar and Anr. vs. State of West Bengal
 and Ors. (2014) 4 SCC 257.” 49. What the learned Additional Solicitor General is asking us to

 do is not to read down Section 66A – he is asking for a wholesale

 substitution of the provision which is obviously not possible.

 Vagueness 50. Counsel for the petitioners argued that the language used in Section 66A is so vague that neither would an accused person be

 put on notice as to what exactly is the offence which has been

 committed nor would the authorities administering the Section be

 clear as to on which side of a clearly drawn line a particular

 communication will fall. 51. We were given Collin’s dictionary, which defined most of the

 terms used in Section 66A , as follows: Menace:- Inconvenience 1. The state of quality of being inconvenient 2. Something inconvenient; a hindrance, trouble, or difficulty
 Danger:- Obstruction:- a person or a thing that obstructs.

 Insult:- …………………………………………….. 'Is guilty of a misdemeanor, …..'” (at page 846)

The court in striking down the said statute held: 46 Ordinary people should be able to understand what conduct is

prohibited and what is permitted. Also, those who administer the

law must know what offence has been committed so that arbitrary

and discriminatory enforcement of the law does not take place. 57. Similarly, in Grayned v. City of Rockford, 33 L.Ed. 2d. 222,

the State of Illinois provided in an anti noise ordinance as follows: 58. The anti noise ordinance was upheld on facts in that case

because it fixed the time at which noise disrupts school activity –

while the school is in session – and at a fixed place – ‘adjacent’ to

the school. 59. Secondly, there had to be demonstrated a causality between

disturbance that occurs and the noise or diversion. Thirdly, acts

have to be willfully done. It is important to notice that the Supreme

Court specifically held that “undesirables” or their “annoying

conduct” may not be punished. It is only on these limited grounds

that the said Ordinance was considered not to be impermissibly

vague. 60. In Reno, Attorney General of the United States, et al. v.

American Civil Liberties Union et al., 521 U.S. 844 (1997), two 51 provisions of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 which

sought to protect minors from harmful material on the internet were

adjudged unconstitutional. This judgment is a little important for

two basic reasons – that it deals with a penal offence created for

persons who use the internet as also for the reason that the

statute which was adjudged unconstitutional uses the expression

“patently offensive” which comes extremely close to the

expression “grossly offensive” used by the impugned Section 66A .

Section 223(d), which was adjudged unconstitutional, is set out

hereinbelow:- 61. The Supreme Court held that the impugned statute lacked

the precision that the first amendment required when a statute

regulates the content of speech. In order to deny minors access to

potentially harmful speech, the impugned Act effectively

suppresses a large amount of speech that adults have a

constitutional right to receive and to address to one another. 62. Such a burden on adult speech is unacceptable if less 53 restrictive alternatives would be as effective in achieving the

legitimate purpose that the statute was enacted to serve. It was

held that the general undefined term “patently offensive” covers

large amounts of non-pornographic material with serious

educational or other value and was both vague and over broad. It was, thus, held that the impugned statute was not narrowly

tailored and would fall foul of the first amendment. 63. In Federal Communications Commission v. Fox

Television Stations, 132 S.Ct. 2307, it was held: Jacksonville, 405 U. S. 156, 162 (1972) (“Living under
 a rule of law entails various suppositions, one of which
 is that ‘[all persons] are entitled to be informed as to
 what the State commands or forbids’”
 (quoting Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 306 U. S. 451, 453
 (1939) (alteration in original))). This requirement of
 clarity in regulation is essential to the protections
 provided by the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
 Amendment. See United States v. Williams, 553 U. S.
 285, 304 (2008). It requires the invalidation of laws that
 are impermissibly vague. A conviction or punishment
 fails to comply with due process if the statute or
 regulation under which it is obtained “fails to provide a
 person of ordinary intelligence fair notice of what is
 prohibited, or is so standardless that it authorizes or
 encourages seriously discriminatory 54 enforcement.” Ibid. As this Court has explained, a
 regulation is not vague because it may at times be
 difficult to prove an incriminating fact but rather
 because it is unclear as to what fact must be proved.
 See id., at 306. Even when speech is not at issue, the void for
 vagueness doctrine addresses at least two connected
 but discrete due process concerns: first, that regulated
 parties should know what is required of them so they
 may act accordingly; second, precision and guidance
 are necessary so that those enforcing the law do not
 act in an arbitrary or discriminatory way. See Grayned
 v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104, 108–109 (1972).
 When speech is involved, rigorous adherence to those
 requirements is necessary to ensure that ambiguity
 does not chill protected speech.”(at page 2317) 64. Coming to this Court’s judgments, in State of Madhya

Pradesh v. Baldeo Prasad , [1961] 1 S.C.R. 970 an inclusive

definition of the word “goonda” was held to be vague and the

offence created by Section 4A of the Goondas Act was, therefore,

violative of Article 19(1)(d) and (e) of the Constitution. It was

stated: 65. At one time this Court seemed to suggest that the doctrine of

vagueness was no part of the Constitutional Law of India. That

was dispelled in no uncertain terms in K.A. Abbas v. The Union

of India & Another , [1971] 2 S.C.R. 446: 66. Similarly, in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia & Ors. v.

Union of India & Ors. , 1969 (2) SCC 166, Section 27 of the Gold

Control Act was struck down on the ground that the conditions

imposed by it for the grant of renewal of licences are uncertain,

vague and unintelligible. The Court held: 67. In A.K. Roy & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. , [1982] 2

S.C.R. 272, a part of Section 3 of the National Security Ordinance

was read down on the ground that “acting in any manner

prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services essential to

the community” is an expression so vague that it is capable of

wanton abuse. The Court held: 68. Similarly, in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab , (1994) 3 SCC

569 at para 130-131, it was held: Section 66F again is a narrowly drawn section which inflicts

punishment which may extend to imprisonment for life for persons

who threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India. Sections 67 to 67B deal with punishment for offences for

publishing or transmitting obscene material including depicting

children in sexually explicit acts in electronic form. 72. In the Indian Penal Code , a number of the expressions that

occur in Section 66A occur in Section 268. “268. Public nuisance.—A person is guilty of a public
 nuisance who does any act or is guilty of an illegal
 omission, which causes any common injury, danger or
 annoyance to the public or to the people in general
 who dwell or occupy property in the vicinity, or which
 must necessarily cause injury, obstruction, danger or
 annoyance to persons who may have occasion to use
 any public right. A common nuisance is not excused on the ground
 that it causes some convenience or advantage.” 73. It is important to notice the distinction between the Sections 64 268 and 66A . Whereas, in Section 268 the various expressions

used are ingredients for the offence of a public nuisance, these

ingredients now become offences in themselves when it comes to Section 66A . Further, under Section 268, the person should be

guilty of an act or omission which is illegal in nature – legal acts

are not within its net. A further ingredient is that injury, danger or

annoyance must be to the public in general. Injury, danger or

annoyance are not offences by themselves howsoever made and

to whomsoever made. The expression “annoyance” appears also

in Sections 294 and 510 of the IPC: 510. Misconduct in public by a drunken person.—
 Whoever, in a state of intoxication, appears in any
 public place, or in any place which it is a trespass in
 him to enter, and there conducts himself in such a
 manner as to cause annoyance to any person, shall be
 punished with simple imprisonment for a term which
 may extend to twenty-four hours, or with fine which
 may extend to ten rupees, or with both.” 65 74. If one looks at Section 294, the annoyance that is spoken of

is clearly defined - that is, it has to be caused by obscene

utterances or acts. Equally, under Section 510, the annoyance

that is caused to a person must only be by another person who is

in a state of intoxication and who annoys such person only in a

public place or in a place for which it is a trespass for him to enter.

Such narrowly and closely defined contours of offences made out

under the Penal Code are conspicuous by their absence in Section

66A which in stark contrast uses completely open ended,

undefined and vague language. 75. Incidentally, none of the expressions used in Section 66A are

defined. Even “criminal intimidation” is not defined – and the

definition clause of the Information Technology Act , Section 2 does

not say that words and expressions that are defined in the Penal

Code will apply to this Act. 76. Quite apart from this, as has been pointed out above, every

expression used is nebulous in meaning. What may be offensive

to one may not be offensive to another. What may cause

annoyance or inconvenience to one may not cause annoyance or

inconvenience to another. Even the expression “persistently” is

completely imprecise – suppose a message is sent thrice, can it

be said that it was sent “persistently”? Does a message have to 66 be sent (say) at least eight times, before it can be said that such

message is “persistently” sent? There is no demarcating line

conveyed by any of these expressions – and that is what renders

the Section unconstitutionally vague. 77. However, the learned Additional Solicitor General argued

before us that expressions that are used in Section 66A may be

incapable of any precise definition but for that reason they are not

constitutionally vulnerable. He cited a large number of judgments

in support of this submission. None of the cited judgments dealt

with a Section creating an offence which is saved despite its being

vague and in capable of any precise definition. In fact, most of the

judgments cited before us did not deal with criminal law at all. The

few that did are dealt with hereinbelow. For instance, Madan

Singh v. State of Bihar , (2004) 4 SCC 622 was cited before us.

The passage cited from the aforesaid judgment is contained in

para 19 of the judgment. The cited passage is not in the context of

an argument that the word “terrorism” not being separately defined

would, therefore, be struck down on the ground of vagueness.

The cited passage was only in the context of upholding the

conviction of the accused in that case . Similarly, in Zameer

Ahmed Latifur Rehman Sheikh v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. ,

(2010) 5 SCC 246, the expression “insurgency” was said to be 67 undefined and would defy a precise definition, yet it could be

understood to mean break down of peace and tranquility as also a

grave disturbance of public order so as to endanger the security of

the State and its sovereignty. This again was said in the context of

a challenge on the ground of legislative competence. The

provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act were challenged on the ground that they were outside the

expression “public order” contained in Entry 1 of List I of the 7 th

Schedule of the Constitution of India. This contention was repelled

by saying that the expression “public order” was wide enough to

encompass cases of “insurgency”. This case again had nothing to

do with a challenge raised on the ground of vagueness. 78. Similarly, in State of M.P. v. Kedia Leather & Liquor

Limited , (2003) 7 SCC 389, paragraph 8 was cited to show that

the expression “nuisance” appearing in Section 133 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure was also not capable of precise definition.

This again was said in the context of an argument that Section 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was impliedly repealed by the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 . This

contention was repelled by saying that the areas of operation of

the two provisions were completely different and they existed side

by side being mutually exclusive. This case again did not contain 68 any argument that the provision contained in Section 133 was

vague and, therefore, unconstitutional. Similarly, in State of

Karnataka v. Appa Balu Ingale , 1995 Supp. (4) SCC 469, the

word “untouchability” was said not to be capable of precise

definition. Here again, there was no constitutional challenge on

the ground of vagueness. 79. In fact, two English judgments cited by the learned Additional

Solicitor General would demonstrate how vague the words used in Section 66A are. In Director of Public Prosecutions v. Collins,

(2006) 1 WLR 2223, the very expression “grossly offensive” is

contained in Section 127(1)(1) of the U.K. Communications Act,

2003. A 61 year old man made a number of telephone calls over

two years to the office of a Member of Parliament. In these

telephone calls and recorded messages Mr. Collins who held

strong views on immigration made a reference to “Wogs”, “Pakis”,

“Black bastards” and “Niggers”. Mr. Collins was charged with

sending messages which were grossly offensive. The

Leicestershire Justices dismissed the case against Mr. Collins on

the ground that the telephone calls were offensive but not grossly

offensive. A reasonable person would not so find the calls to be

grossly offensive. The Queen’s Bench agreed and dismissed the

appeal filed by the Director of Public Prosecutions. The House of 69 Lords reversed the Queen’s Bench stating: 80. Similarly in Chambers v. Director of Public Prosecutions,

[2013] 1 W.L.R. 1833, the Queen’s Bench was faced with the

following facts: 81. The Crown Court was satisfied that the message in question

was “menacing” stating that an ordinary person seeing the tweet

would be alarmed and, therefore, such message would be

“menacing”. The Queen’s Bench Division reversed the Crown

Court stating: 82. These two cases illustrate how judicially trained minds would

find a person guilty or not guilty depending upon the Judge’s

notion of what is “grossly offensive” or “menacing”. In Collins’

case, both the Leicestershire Justices and two Judges of the

Queen’s Bench would have acquitted Collins whereas the House

of Lords convicted him. Similarly, in the Chambers case, the

Crown Court would have convicted Chambers whereas the

Queen’s Bench acquitted him. If judicially trained minds can come

to diametrically opposite conclusions on the same set of facts it is

obvious that expressions such as “grossly offensive” or “menacing”

are so vague that there is no manageable standard by which a

person can be said to have committed an offence or not to have 72 committed an offence. Quite obviously, a prospective offender of Section 66A and the authorities who are to enforce Section 66A have absolutely no manageable standard by which to book a

person for an offence under Section 66A . This being the case,

having regard also to the two English precedents cited by the

learned Additional Solicitor General, it is clear that Section 66A is

unconstitutionally vague. Ultimately, applying the tests referred to in Chintaman Rao

and V.G. Row’s case, referred to earlier in the judgment, it is clear

that Section 66A arbitrarily, excessively and disproportionately

invades the right of free speech and upsets the balance between

such right and the reasonable restrictions that may be imposed on

such right. Chilling Effect And Overbreadth 83. Information that may be grossly offensive or which causes

annoyance or inconvenience are undefined terms which take into

the net a very large amount of protected and innocent speech. A

person may discuss or even advocate by means of writing

disseminated over the internet information that may be a view or

point of view pertaining to governmental, literary, scientific or other

matters which may be unpalatable to certain sections of society. It

is obvious that an expression of a view on any matter may cause 73 annoyance, inconvenience or may be grossly offensive to some. A

few examples will suffice. A certain section of a particular

community may be grossly offended or annoyed by

communications over the internet by “liberal views” – such as the

emancipation of women or the abolition of the caste system or

whether certain members of a non proselytizing religion should be

allowed to bring persons within their fold who are otherwise

outside the fold. Each one of these things may be grossly

offensive, annoying, inconvenient, insulting or injurious to large

sections of particular communities and would fall within the net

cast by Section 66A . In point of fact, Section 66A is cast so widely

that virtually any opinion on any subject would be covered by it, as

any serious opinion dissenting with the mores of the day would be

caught within its net. Such is the reach of the Section and if it is to

withstand the test of constitutionality, the chilling effect on free

speech would be total. 84. Incidentally, some of our judgments have recognized this

chilling effect of free speech. In R. Rajagopal v. State of T.N. ,

(1994) 6 SCC 632, this Court held: It was also held therein that not only was there no
public interest in allowing governmental institutions to
sue for libel, it was “contrary to the public interest
because to admit such actions would place an
undesirable fetter on freedom of speech” and further
that action for defamation or threat of such action
“inevitably have an inhibiting effect on freedom of
speech”. The learned Law Lord referred to the decision
of the United States Supreme Court in New York
Times v. Sullivan [376 US 254 : 11 L Ed 2d 686 (1964)]
and certain other decisions of American Courts and
observed — and this is significant for our purposes—

 “while these decisions were related most directly to
the provisions of the American Constitution concerned
with securing freedom of speech, the public interest
considerations which underlaid them are no less valid
in this country. What has been described as ‘the
chilling effect’ induced by the threat of civil actions for
libel is very important. Quite often the facts which
would justify a defamatory publication are known to be 75 true, but admissible evidence capable of proving those
 facts is not available.”
 Accordingly, it was held that the action was not
 maintainable in law.” 85. Also in S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal , (2010) 5 SCC 600,

this Court said: 86. That the content of the right under Article 19(1)(a) remains

the same whatever the means of communication including internet

communication is clearly established by Reno’s case ( supra) and

by The Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting v.

Cricket Association of Bengal & Anr. , (1995) SCC 2 161 at Para

78 already referred to. It is thus clear that not only are the

expressions used in Section 66A expressions of inexactitude but

they are also over broad and would fall foul of the repeated

injunctions of this Court that restrictions on the freedom of speech

must be couched in the narrowest possible terms. For example,

see, Kedar Nath Singh v. State of Bihar , [1962] Supp. 2 S.C.R.

769 at 808 -809. In point of fact, judgments of the Constitution 76 Bench of this Court have struck down sections which are similar in

nature. A prime example is the section struck down in the first Ram Manohar Lohia case, namely, Section 3 of the U.P. Special

Powers Act, where the persons who “instigated” expressly or by

implication any person or class of persons not to pay or to defer

payment of any liability were punishable. This Court specifically

held that under the Section a wide net was cast to catch a variety

of acts of instigation ranging from friendly advice to systematic

propaganda. It was held that in its wide amplitude, the Section

takes in the innocent as well as the guilty, bonafide and malafide

advice and whether the person be a legal adviser, a friend or a

well wisher of the person instigated, he cannot escape the

tentacles of the Section. The Court held that it was not possible

to predicate with some kind of precision the different categories of

instigation falling within or without the field of constitutional

prohibitions. It further held that the Section must be declared

unconstitutional as the offence made out would depend upon

factors which are uncertain. 87. In Kameshwar Prasad & Ors. v. The State of Bihar &

Anr. , [1962] Supp. 3 S.C.R. 369, Rule 4-A of the Bihar

Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1956 was challenged. The

rule states “No government servant shall participate in any 77 demonstration or resort to any form of strike in connection with any

matter pertaining to his conditions of service.” 88. The aforesaid rule was challenged under Articles 19 (1)(a) and (b) of the Constitution. The Court followed the law laid down in Ram Manohar Lohia’s case [1960] 2 S.C.R. 821 and accepted

the challenge. It first held that demonstrations are a form of

speech and then held: innocent as well as otherwise - and in consequence its
 validity cannot be upheld.” (at page 374) 89. The Court further went on to hold that remote disturbances of

public order by demonstration would fall outside Article 19(2). The

connection with public order has to be intimate, real and rational 78 and should arise directly from the demonstration that is sought to

be prohibited. Finally, the Court held: 90. These two Constitution Bench decisions bind us and would

apply directly on Section 66A . We, therefore, hold that the Section

is unconstitutional also on the ground that it takes within its sweep

protected speech and speech that is innocent in nature and is

liable therefore to be used in such a way as to have a chilling

effect on free speech and would, therefore, have to be struck down

on the ground of overbreadth. Possibility of an act being abused is not a ground to test its
validity: 91. The learned Additional Solicitor General cited a large number

of judgments on the proposition that the fact that Section 66A is

capable of being abused by the persons who administered it is not

a ground to test its validity if it is otherwise valid. He further

assured us that this Government was committed to free speech

and that Section 66A would not be used to curb free speech, but

would be used only when excesses are perpetrated by persons on

the rights of others. In The Collector of Customs, Madras v.

Nathella Sampathu Chetty & Anr. , [1962] 3 S.C.R. 786, this 79 Court observed: 92. In this case, it is the converse proposition which would really

apply if the learned Additional Solicitor General’s argument is to be

accepted. If Section 66A is otherwise invalid, it cannot be saved by

an assurance from the learned Additional Solicitor General that it

will be administered in a reasonable manner. Governments may

come and Governments may go but Section 66A goes on forever.

An assurance from the present Government even if carried out

faithfully would not bind any successor Government. It must,

therefore, be held that Section 66A must be judged on its own

merits without any reference to how well it may be administered.

Severability: 93. The argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General on

this score is reproduced by us verbatim from one of his written

submissions: 94. The submission is vague: the learned Additional Solicitor

General does not indicate which part or parts of Section 66A can 81 possibly be saved. This Court in Romesh Thappar v. The State

of Madras , [1950] S.C.R. 594 repelled a contention of severability

when it came to the courts enforcing the fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) in the following terms: 95. It has been held by us that Section 66A purports to authorize

the imposition of restrictions on the fundamental right contained in Article 19(1)(a) in language wide enough to cover restrictions both 82 within and without the limits of constitutionally permissible

legislative action. We have held following K.A. Abbas’ case

(Supra) that the possibility of Section 66A being applied for

purposes not sanctioned by the Constitution cannot be ruled out.

It must, therefore, be held to be wholly unconstitutional and void. Romesh Thappar’s Case was distinguished in R.M.D.

Chamarbaugwalla v. The Union of India , [1957] S.C.R. 930 in

the context of a right under Article 19(1)(g) as follows: 96. The present being a case of an Article 19(1)(a) violation,

Romesh Thappar’s judgment would apply on all fours. In an Article 19(1)(g) challenge, there is no question of a law being

applied for purposes not sanctioned by the Constitution for the

simple reason that the eight subject matters of Article 19(2) are

conspicuous by their absence in Article 19(6) which only speaks of

reasonable restrictions in the interests of the general public. The

present is a case where, as has been held above, Section 66A does not fall within any of the subject matters contained in Article

19(2) and the possibility of its being applied for purposes outside

those subject matters is clear. We therefore hold that no part of Section 66A is severable and the provision as a whole must be

declared unconstitutional. Article 14 97. Counsel for the petitioners have argued that Article 14 is also

infringed in that an offence whose ingredients are vague in nature

is arbitrary and unreasonable and would result in arbitrary and

discriminatory application of the criminal law. Further, there is no 84 intelligible differentia between the medium of print, broadcast, and

real live speech as opposed to speech on the internet and,

therefore, new categories of criminal offences cannot be made on

this ground. Similar offences which are committed on the internet

have a three year maximum sentence under Section 66A as

opposed to defamation which has a two year maximum sentence.

Also, defamation is a non-cognizable offence whereas under 98. We have already held that Section 66A creates an offence

which is vague and overbroad, and, therefore, unconstitutional

under Article 19(1)(a) and not saved by Article 19(2). We have

also held that the wider range of circulation over the internet

cannot restrict the content of the right under Article 19(1)(a) nor

can it justify its denial. However, when we come to discrimination

under Article 14 , we are unable to agree with counsel for the

petitioners that there is no intelligible differentia between the

medium of print, broadcast and real live speech as opposed to

speech on the internet. The intelligible differentia is clear – the

internet gives any individual a platform which requires very little or

no payment through which to air his views. The learned Additional

Solicitor General has correctly said that something posted on a

site or website travels like lightning and can reach millions of 85 persons all over the world. If the petitioners were right, this Article

14 argument would apply equally to all other offences created by

the Information Technology Act which are not the subject matter of

challenge in these petitions. We make it clear that there is an

intelligible differentia between speech on the internet and other

mediums of communication for which separate offences can

certainly be created by legislation. We find, therefore, that the

challenge on the ground of Article 14 must fail.

Procedural Unreasonableness 99. One other argument must now be considered. According to

the petitioners, Section 66A also suffers from the vice of

procedural unreasonableness. In that, if, for example, criminal

defamation is alleged, the safeguards available under Section 199 Cr.P.C. would not be available for a like offence committed under Section 66A . Such safeguards are that no court shall take

cognizance of such an offence except upon a complaint made by

some person aggrieved by the offence and that such complaint will

have to be made within six months from the date on which the

offence is alleged to have been committed. Further, safeguards

that are to be found in Sections 95 and 96 of the Cr.P.C. are also

absent when it comes to Section 66A . For example, where any

newspaper book or document wherever printed appears to contain 86 matter which is obscene, hurts the religious feelings of some

community, is seditious in nature, causes enmity or hatred to a

certain section of the public, or is against national integration, such

book, newspaper or document may be seized but under Section

96 any person having any interest in such newspaper, book or

document may within two months from the date of a publication

seizing such documents, books or newspapers apply to the High

court to set aside such declaration. Such matter is to be heard by

a Bench consisting of at least three Judges or in High Courts

which consist of less than three Judges, such special Bench as

may be composed of all the Judges of that High Court. 100. It is clear that Sections 95 and 96 of the Criminal Procedure

Code reveal a certain degree of sensitivity to the fundamental right

to free speech and expression. If matter is to be seized on specific

grounds which are relatable to the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) , it would be open for persons affected by such seizure

to get a declaration from a High Court consisting of at least three

Judges that in fact publication of the so-called offensive matter

does not in fact relate to any of the specified subjects contained in Article 19(2). Further, Section 196 of the Cr.P.C. states: [(1-A)
No Court shall take cognizance of— (a) any offence punishable under Section 153-B or
sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of Section 505 of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860), or (b) a criminal conspiracy to commit such offence,
except with the previous sanction of the Central
Government or of the State Government or of the
District Magistrate.]
(2) No court shall take cognizance of the offence of any
criminal conspiracy punishable under Section 120-B of
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), other than a
criminal conspiracy to commit [an offence] punishable
with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous
imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards,
unless the State Government or the District Magistrate
has consented in writing to the initiation of the
proceedings: 101. Again, for offences in the nature of promoting enmity

between different groups on grounds of religion etc. or offences

relatable to deliberate and malicious acts intending to outrage

religious feelings or statements that create or promote enmity,

hatred or ill-will between classes can only be taken cognizance of

by courts with the previous sanction of the Central Government or

the State Government. This procedural safeguard does not apply

even when a similar offence may be committed over the internet

where a person is booked under Section 66A instead of the

aforesaid Sections. Having struck down Section 66A on substantive grounds, we

need not decide the procedural unreasonableness aspect of the

Section. Section 118 of the Kerala Police Act . 102. Learned counsel for the Petitioner in Writ Petition No. 196 of

2014 assailed sub-section (d) of Section 118 which is set out

hereinbelow: shall, on conviction be punishable with imprisonment
 for a term which may extend to three years or with fine
 not exceeding ten thousand rupees or with both.” 103. Learned counsel first assailed the Section on the ground of

legislative competence stating that this being a Kerala Act , it would

fall outside Entries1 and 2 of List II and fall within Entry 31 of List I.

In order to appreciate the argument we set out the relevant entries: List - II 1. Public order (but not including the use of any naval,
 military or air force or any other armed force of the
 Union or of any other force subject to the control of the
 Union or of any contingent or unit thereof in aid of the
 civil power). 2. Police (including railway and village police) subject
 to the provisions of entry 2A of List I.” The Kerala Police Act as a whole would necessarily fall

under Entry 2 of List II. In addition, Section 118 would also fall

within Entry 1 of List II in that as its marginal note tells us it deals

with penalties for causing grave violation of public order or danger. 104. It is well settled that a statute cannot be dissected and then

examined as to under what field of legislation each part would

separately fall. In A.S. Krishna v. State of Madras , [1957] S.C.R. 90 399, the law is stated thus: 105. It is, therefore, clear that the Kerala Police Act as a whole

and Section 118 as part thereof falls in pith and substance within

Entry 2 List II, notwithstanding any incidental encroachment that it

may have made on any other Entry in List I. Even otherwise, the

penalty created for causing annoyance in an indecent manner in

pith and substance would fall within Entry 1 List III which speaks of

criminal law and would thus be within the competence of the State

Legislature in any case. 106. However, what has been said about Section 66A would apply

directly to Section 118(d) of the Kerala Police Act, as causing

annoyance in an indecent manner suffers from the same type of 91 vagueness and over breadth, that led to the invalidity of Section

66A , and for the reasons given for striking down Section 66A ,

Section 118(d) also violates Article 19(1)(a) and not being a

reasonable restriction on the said right and not being saved under

any of the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) is hereby

declared to be unconstitutional. Section 69A and the Information Technology (Procedure and
Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public)
Rules, 2009. 107. Section 69A of the Information Technology Act has already

been set out in paragraph 2 of the judgment. Under sub-section

(2) thereof, the 2009 Rules have been framed. Under Rule 3, the

Central Government shall designate by notification in the official

gazette an officer of the Central Government not below the rank of

a Joint Secretary as the Designated Officer for the purpose of

issuing direction for blocking for access by the public any

information referable to Section 69A of the Act. Under Rule 4,

every organization as defined under Rule 2(g), (which refers to the

Government of India, State Governments, Union Territories and

agencies of the Central Government as may be notified in the

Official Gazette by the Central Government)– is to designate one

of its officers as the “Nodal Officer”. Under Rule 6, any person 92 may send their complaint to the “Nodal Officer” of the concerned

Organization for blocking, which complaint will then have to be

examined by the concerned Organization regard being had to the

parameters laid down in Section 69A(1) and after being so

satisfied, shall transmit such complaint through its Nodal Officer to

the Designated Officer in a format specified by the Rules. The

Designated Officer is not to entertain any complaint or request for

blocking directly from any person. Under Rule 5, the Designated

Officer may on receiving any such request or complaint from the

Nodal Officer of an Organization or from a competent court, by

order direct any intermediary or agency of the Government to

block any information or part thereof for the reasons specified in

69A(1). Under Rule 7 thereof, the request/complaint shall then be

examined by a Committee of Government Personnel who under

Rule 8 are first to make all reasonable efforts to identify the

originator or intermediary who has hosted the information. If so

identified, a notice shall issue to appear and submit their reply at a

specified date and time which shall not be less than 48 hours from

the date and time of receipt of notice by such person or

intermediary. The Committee then examines the request and is to

consider whether the request is covered by 69A(1) and is then to

give a specific recommendation in writing to the Nodal Officer of 93 the concerned Organization. It is only thereafter that the

Designated Officer is to submit the Committee’s recommendation

to the Secretary, Department of Information Technology who is to

approve such requests or complaints. Upon such approval, the

Designated Officer shall then direct any agency of Government or

intermediary to block the offending information. Rule 9 provides for

blocking of information in cases of emergency where delay caused

would be fatal in which case the blocking may take place without

any opportunity of hearing. The Designated Officer shall then, not

later than 48 hours of the issue of the interim direction, bring the

request before the Committee referred to earlier, and only on the

recommendation of the Committee, is the Secretary Department of

Information Technology to pass the final order. Under Rule 10, in

the case of an order of a competent court in India, the Designated

Officer shall, on receipt of a certified copy of a court order, submit

it to the Secretary, Department of Information Technology and then

initiate action as directed by the Court. In addition to the above

safeguards, under Rule 14 a Review Committee shall meet at

least once in two months and record its findings as to whether

directions issued are in accordance with Section 69A(1) and if it is

of the contrary opinion, the Review Committee may set aside such

directions and issue orders to unblock the said information. Under 94 Rule 16, strict confidentiality shall be maintained regarding all the

requests and complaints received and actions taken thereof. 108. Learned counsel for the petitioners assailed the

constitutional validity of Section 69A , and assailed the validity of

the 2009 Rules. According to learned counsel, there is no

pre-decisional hearing afforded by the Rules particularly to the

“originator” of information, which is defined under Section 2(za) of

the Act to mean a person who sends, generates, stores or

transmits any electronic message; or causes any electronic

message to be sent, generated, stored or transmitted to any other

person. Further, procedural safeguards such as which are

provided under Section 95 and 96 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure are not available here. Also, the confidentiality

provision was assailed stating that it affects the fundamental rights

of the petitioners. 109. It will be noticed that Section 69A unlike Section 66A is a

narrowly drawn provision with several safeguards. First and

foremost, blocking can only be resorted to where the Central

Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do. Secondly,

such necessity is relatable only to some of the subjects set out in Article 19(2). Thirdly, reasons have to be recorded in writing in

such blocking order so that they may be assailed in a writ petition 95 under Article 226 of the Constitution. 110. The Rules further provide for a hearing before the Committee

set up - which Committee then looks into whether or not it is

necessary to block such information. It is only when the

Committee finds that there is such a necessity that a blocking

order is made. It is also clear from an examination of Rule 8 that it

is not merely the intermediary who may be heard. If the “person”

i.e. the originator is identified he is also to be heard before a

blocking order is passed. Above all, it is only after these procedural

safeguards are met that blocking orders are made and in case

there is a certified copy of a court order, only then can such

blocking order also be made. It is only an intermediary who finally

fails to comply with the directions issued who is punishable under

sub-section (3) of Section 69A . 111. Merely because certain additional safeguards such as those

found in Section 95 and 96 CrPC are not available does not make

the Rules constitutionally infirm. We are of the view that the Rules

are not constitutionally infirm in any manner. Section 79 and the Information Technology (Intermediary
Guidelines) Rules, 2011. 112. Section 79 belongs to Chapter XII of the Act in which

intermediaries are exempt from liability if they fulfill the conditions 96 of the Section. Section 79 states: Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the
 expression “third party information” means any
 information dealt with by an intermediary in his
 capacity as an intermediary.]” 113. Under the 2011 Rules, by Rule 3 an intermediary has not

only to publish the rules and regulations, privacy policy and user 97 agreement for access or usage of the intermediary’s computer

resource but he has also to inform all users of the various matters

set out in Rule 3(2). Since Rule 3(2) and 3(4) are important, they

are set out hereinbelow:- Further the intermediary shall preserve such
 information and associated records for at least ninety
 days for investigation purposes.” 114. Learned counsel for the petitioners assailed Rules 3(2) and

3(4) on two basic grounds. Firstly, the intermediary is called upon

to exercise its own judgment under sub-rule (4) and then disable

information that is in contravention of sub-rule (2), when

intermediaries by their very definition are only persons who offer a

neutral platform through which persons may interact with each

other over the internet. Further, no safeguards are provided as in

the 2009 Rules made under Section 69A . Also, for the very

reasons that Section 66A is bad, the petitioners assailed sub-rule

(2) of Rule 3 saying that it is vague and over broad and has no

relation with the subjects specified under Article 19(2). 115. One of the petitioners’ counsel also assailed Section 79(3)(b) to the extent that it makes the intermediary exercise its own 99 judgment upon receiving actual knowledge that any information is

being used to commit unlawful acts. Further, the expression

“unlawful acts” also goes way beyond the specified subjects

delineated in Article 19(2). 116. It must first be appreciated that Section 79 is an exemption

provision. Being an exemption provision, it is closely related to

provisions which provide for offences including Section 69A . We

have seen how under Section 69A blocking can take place only by

a reasoned order after complying with several procedural

safeguards including a hearing to the originator and intermediary.

We have also seen how there are only two ways in which a

blocking order can be passed – one by the Designated Officer

after complying with the 2009 Rules and the other by the

Designated Officer when he has to follow an order passed by a

competent court. The intermediary applying its own mind to

whether information should or should not be blocked is noticeably

absent in Section 69A read with 2009 Rules. 117. Section 79(3)(b) has to be read down to mean that the

intermediary upon receiving actual knowledge that a court order

has been passed asking it to expeditiously remove or disable

access to certain material must then fail to expeditiously remove or

disable access to that material. This is for the reason that 100 otherwise it would be very difficult for intermediaries like Google,

Facebook etc. to act when millions of requests are made and the

intermediary is then to judge as to which of such requests are

legitimate and which are not. We have been informed that in other

countries worldwide this view has gained acceptance, Argentina

being in the forefront. Also, the Court order and/or the notification

by the appropriate Government or its agency must strictly conform

to the subject matters laid down in Article 19(2). Unlawful acts

beyond what is laid down in Article 19(2) obviously cannot form

any part of Section 79 . With these two caveats, we refrain from

striking down Section 79(3)(b) . 118. The learned Additional Solicitor General informed us that it is

a common practice worldwide for intermediaries to have user

agreements containing what is stated in Rule 3(2). However, Rule

3(4) needs to be read down in the same manner as Section 79(3) (b). The knowledge spoken of in the said sub-rule must only be

through the medium of a court order. Subject to this, the

Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011

are valid. 119. In conclusion, we may summarise what has been held by us

above: All the writ petitions are disposed in the above terms. ….…..…..………………………...J.
 (J. Chelameswar)

 ….…..…..………………………...J.
 (R.F. Nariman)
New Delhi,
March 24, 2015. Date : 24/03/2015 These petitions were called on for pronouncement
 of judgment today. For Petitioner(s) Mr. Soli Sorabjee,Sr.Adv. Ms. Manali Singhal,Adv. Ms. Ranjeeta Rohtagi,Adv. Mr. Ninad Laud,Adv. Mr. Abhikalp Pratap Singh,Adv. Ms. Mehernaz Mehta,Adv. Ms. Gursimran Dhillon,Adv. Mr. Karan Mathur,Adv. Mr. Santosh Sachin,Adv. Mr. Gaurav Shrivastava,Adv. Mr. Deepak Rawat,Adv. Ms. Jaya Khanna,Adv. Mr. Prashant Bhushan,Adv. Mr. Sajan Poovayya,Sr.Adv. Mr. Sumit Attri,Adv. Mr. Praveen Sehrawat,Adv. Mr. Priyadarshi Banerjee,Adv. Mr. E. C. Agrawala,Adv. Mr. Krishan Kumar,Adv. Mr. Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar,Adv. M/s. Lawyer S Knit & Co,Adv. Ms. Liz Mathew,Adv. Mr. Kush Chaturvedi,Adv. Mr. Abhinav Mukerji,Adv. Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayanan,Adv. Mr. Renjith B,Adv. Ms. Lakshmi N. Kaimal,Adv. Mr. Vikramditya,Adv. For Respondent(s) Mr. Subail farrukh,Adv. Mrs. Priya Puri,Adv. Mr. Ranjan Kr. Dubey,Adv. Mr. Anip Sachthey,Adv. Mr. D. S. Mahra,Adv. Mr. V. G. Pragasam,Adv. Mr. S.I. Aristotle,Adv. Mr. Prabu Ramasubramanian,Adv. Mr. Sapam Biswajit Meitei,Adv. Mr. Z.H. Issac Haiding,Adv. Mr. Ashok Kumar Singh,Adv. Ms. Asha Gopalan Nair,Adv. Mr. D. Mahesh Babu,Adv. Mr. R. V. Kameshwaran,Adv. Mr. Vijay Kumar,Adv. Mr. Ravi Prakash Mehrotra,Adv. Mr. Gaurav Bhatia,AAG, U.P. 104 Mr. Gaurav Srivastava,Adv. Mr. Utkarsh Jaiswal,Adv. Mr. Abhishek Chaudhary,Adv. Mr. Mohit D. Ram,Adv. Mr. P.S. Naarsimha,ASG
 Mr. V. Shyamohan,Adv. Mr. P. Venkat Reddy,Adv. Mr. Sumanth Nookala,Adv. M/s. Venkat Palwai Law Associates

 Mr. Aftab Ali Khan,Adv. Dr. Nafis A. Siddiqui,Adv. Ms. Divya Roy,Adv. Hon'ble Mr. Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman pronounced the
judgment of the Bench comprising of Hon'ble Mr. Justice J.
Chelameswar and His Lordship. All the writ petitions are disposed of, in terms of the
signed reportable judgment. (Signed reportable judgment is placed on the file)