A twenty one year young boy has knocked at the

 portals of this Court for bail. He is involved in cybercrime. The

 manner in which the crime has been committed shows the

 devilish master mindedness, cool thinking, tricks adopted, 2 organised effort and timely execution of plan of the offenders.

The intelligence and advanced type of knowledge on cyber

seems to have been utilised in a wrong way. Sitting somewhere

far from the victim and without having any direct physical access

to her, the cybercriminal has caused unimaginable harm to her

with touches of his fingers on the computer and stolen more

than what an ordinary criminal could have done with gun. The

victim of the organised crime appears to be an innocent lady fell

into the trap of evil design. With the temptation of getting

foreign gifts, she acted like a brainless toy in the hands of the

criminals till she realised one day that she had been deceived on

a mistaken impression. The law was set into motion with the presentation of

a first information report by Sukanti Mohanty at Cyber Crime

Police Station of C.I.D., C.B., Cuttack on the accusation that she

had become a victim of organized cybercrime and had paid a

sum of Rs.17,03,390/- to different persons through their bank

accounts which were provided to her through e-mail/sms

/whatsapp. She alleged against one person identifying himself as

Frank Young on facebook had sent her a friend's request which

she accepted. The accused informed the informant that he had

sent her some gifts which were held up in Delhi from where she 3 should collect the gifts. The informant was asked through a

number of calls and e-mails for money on various pretexts i.e.

remittance, foreign exchange, transfer etc. The phone calls and

sms were received from different numbers and the people who

identified themselves as Frank, Marc, security personnel, R.B.I.

officials and Airport officials etc. advised and convinced the

informant to deposit money in different bank accounts provided

by them. The money was paid in four different bank accounts of

four different persons by the informant totalling to

Rs.17,03,390/-. On such first information report, C.I.D.C.B. Cyber

Crime P.S. Case No.12 dated 26.08.2016 was registered under sections 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 of the Indian Penal Code and section

66-C / 66-D of the Information Technology Act, 2000. During course of investigation, the informant and

other witnesses were examined. The documents relating to

deposit of money, accounts statement of the informant's bank

account as well as some other relevant documents were seized.

Requisitions under section 91 of Cr.P.C. were sent to the

concerned banks to provide A/c opening forms details along with

up to date account statement and other necessary information

for identification of the account holders. Immediate 4 correspondence were also made with concerned mobile service

providers to ascertain the subscriber information as well as call

details to ascertain the identity and location of the cell phone

numbers which were used in making contact with the informant.

While conducting investigating at New Delhi, it was ascertained

that large sum of money was deposited in the bank accounts of

fraudsters and the same was immediately being transferred to

many other bank accounts in smaller amounts by internet

banking and soon after that the smaller amounts were withdrawn

immediately through ATMs in no time leaving very little or no

balance in the beneficiary accounts. The concerned branch

managers were requested to debit freeze the beneficiary

accounts. On 08.10.2016, the Inspector of Cyber Crime, Goa

intimated the investigating officer by e-mail that two Nigerian

nationals i.e. the petitioner and another have been arrested on

03.10.2016 by Goa police and during interrogation, it was

ascertained that they are involved in a crime in Orissa by

defrauding the informant by using two mobile numbers. During

verification of the mobile numbers and call records received from

the mobile service providers, it appeared that the two mobile

numbers are common in Odisha Cyber Crime case and Goa

Cyber Crime case. The investigating officer received CDR and 5 CAF in respect of some of the mobile numbers and analyzed

them. From the CDR of the mobile phones, it became evident

that the fraudster had induced the informant by making

telephone call and sms and the two mobile numbers which were

used in two IMEIs were seized by the Cybercrime officials of

Delhi and Goa. It was ascertained during course of investigation

that the petitioner and another co-accused had become friends

with the informant through e-mail/sms/whatsapp. Finding

sufficient prima facie evidence against the petitioner, charge

sheet was submitted on 27.02.2017 against the petitioner and

another co-accused under sections 419/420/468/471 of the

Indian Penal Code and sections 66-C/66-D of the Information

Technology Act keeping the further investigation open under

section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. The petitioner moved an application for bail before

the learned Addl. Sessions Judge, Bhubaneswar in Bail

Application No.201/904 of 2017 which was rejected vide order

dated 02.08.2017. Mr. Gautam Mishra, learned counsel appearing for

the petitioner contended that the petitioner has been

unnecessarily victimized and he is in no way involved in the

alleged commission of the offences and he has already remained 6 in custody for a substantial period and has undergone

tremendous hardship and mental agony and charge sheet has

already been submitted. It is further stated by the learned

counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner has been granted

bail in the Goa case by the J.M.F.C., Mapusa, Goa and he has

filed the bail order copy. He further submitted that there is no

chance of tampering with the evidence and therefore, the bail

application may be favourably considered. Mr. Janmejaya Katikia, learned Additional

Government Advocate on the other hand contended that there is

not only sufficient evidence against the petitioner relating to his

involvement in the crime but also the further investigation of the

case is under progress and once the petitioner is released on

bail, there is likelihood of tampering with the evidence. It is

further contended that the petitioner is involved in committing

similar offences in other States also and therefore, the bail

application should be rejected. Learned counsel filed the case

records as well as some important documents in a sealed

envelope. Adverting to the contentions raised by the learned

counsels for the respective parties and after going through the

case records, it appears that there are sufficient prima facie 7 evidence to show that due to inducement of the petitioner, the

informant deposited a sum of Rs.17,03,390/- in four accounts,

three belonged to S.B.I. and one belonged to Central Bank of

India. From the said accounts, the petitioner had transferred

money through online account transfer to beneficiary accounts

and the accused persons have withdrawn money through ATM

leaving a very negligible amount in the account. The maximum

withdrawal have been effected using ATM cards and the Branch

Managers of the concerned banks such as State Bank of

Travancore, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, Union Bank and

State Bank of Hyderabad etc. stated that the account holders

never visit the branch and have withdrawn money only through

ATM. It is evident that the informant has deposited money in

four accounts of different persons which are fake due to

inducement by the petitioner through online transfer from her

accounts and soon after her deposit, the money was transferred

through internet banking in smaller amounts to several

beneficiary accounts which are in different banks in New Delhi. It

further appears that the petitioner visited India in a fake Visa on

health ground. Considering the nature and gravity of the accusation,

the nature of supporting evidence, the manner in which the 8 informant has been cheated with a huge amount, the severity of

punishment in case of conviction, the reasonable apprehension of

tampering with the evidence particularly when the further

investigation is under progress and the criminal proclivity of the

petitioner, I am not inclined to accept the prayer for bail of the

petitioner. Accordingly, the BLAPL application stands rejected. .......................................
 S.K. Sahoo, J. Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 22nd November, 2017/Sisir