1. The instant writ petitions are filed challenging the impugned action of
 the respondent-Bank of India (hereinafter „BOI‟), whereby, the petitioners'
 accounts have been declared as 'fraud' as per the Reserve Bank of India
 (RBI) Master Circular on the Classification and Reporting of Fraud dated
 01.07.2016. This order shall decide a preliminary objection raised on behalf
 of the respondent-BOI on entertaining the instant writ petitions on the
 ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction and/or alternatively, on the ground
 of forum non-conveniens. The issue involved is common in both the writ Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:PRATIMA Signing Date:19.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
16:43:33 KUMAR KAURAV -3 - petitions; hence, a combined order is being passed. Factual Matrix 2. In W.P.(C.) 7962/2023, the petitioner is a company incorporated
 under the Companies Act, 1956 having its registered office at DB Central,
 Maulana Azad Road Rangwala Compound, Jacob Circle, Mumbai 400011.
 The present dispute has arisen on account of certain credit facilities being
 availed by the petitioner from the respondent-BOI, Mumbai branch. 3. The respondent-BOI, has its head office at Star House, C-5, G Block,
 Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051. A branch office of
 the respondent-BOI at Mumbai Large Corporate vide its sanction letter dated
 25.09.2013 ('sanction letter'), sanctioned credit facilities amounting to
 Rs.225 Crores ('credit facilities') to the petitioner company. In terms of the
 Sanction Letter, the petitioner company executed several security documents
 vis-à-vis Term Loan Agreement dated 30.09.2013 ('term loan agreement'),
 Guarantee Agreements dated 30.09.2013, Hypothecation cum Loan
 Agreement dated 30.09.2013 ('hypothecation'), Mortgage Deed dated
 15.10.2013 ('mortgage deed'), Joint Deed of Mortgage dated 28.07.2014
 ('joint mortgage deed'), Supplemental Term Loan Agreement dated
 30.03.2015 ('supplemental term loan'). 4. Due to the non-payment of the loan, the petitioner's account was
 declared as a Non-Performing Asset (hereinafter 'NPA') on 31.12.2015.
 Thereafter, numerous One Time Settlement (hereinafter 'OTS') proposals
 were exchanged between the parties but none of them culminated in the final
 settlement. In the meantime, the respondent-BOI filed a complaint in Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:PRATIMA Signing Date:19.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
16:43:33 KUMAR KAURAV -4 - Economic Offences Wing, Mumbai branch (hereinafter „EOW‟) that the
 petitioner has committed fraud against the respondent-BOI to the tune of
 Rs.236.92 Crores. The EOW vide its letter dated 21.06.2022 informed the
 petitioner that the preliminary enquiry has been closed and no commission
 of cognizable offence was found. It is the contention of the petitioner that
 vide this letter by EOW, the petitioner came to know that their account is
 declared as 'fraud'. 5. In W.P.(C) 10525/2023, the petitioner is a company incorporated
 under the Companies Act, 1956 having its registered office at the 7th Floor,
 Resham Bhavan, Veer Nariman Road, Churchgate Mumbai - 400020. In
 September 2008, the petitioner approached the respondent-BOI to avail loan,
 pursuant to which, on 15.11.2008, the respondent-BOI approved and
 sanctioned a guarantee cum term loan of Rs.425 Crores. In June 2011, the
 petitioner expressed its inability to repay the credit facilities in light of the
 uncertainty faced by the telecom sector. Thereafter, in February 2012, the
 respondent-BOI reviewed the credit facilities and a revised sanction letter
 dated 02.02.2012 was issued to the petitioner company at the then
 outstanding sanctioned limit of Rs.246.33 Crores. 6. Since the petitioner could not repay the loan, the respondent-BOI
 declared the petitioner's account as NPA. Pursuant to the said declaration,
 various OTS proposals were sent by the petitioner, but they did not
 culminate into any settlement. Thereafter, the respondent-BOI declared the
 petitioner's account as 'fraud' in view of the RBI Master Circular on the
 Classification and Reporting of Fraud dated 01.07.2016. 7. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-BOI in
 W.P.(C) 7962/2023 and W.P.(C) 10525/2023 raises a preliminary objection
 with respect to the maintainability of these petitions on the ground of lack of
 territorial jurisdiction of this court. He submits that going by the pleadings
 made by the petitioner, no cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction
 of this court. According to him, the only action under challenge is with
 respect to the declaration of the petitioners' accounts as 'fraud' and the same
 has taken place in Mumbai which was communicated to the regional office
 of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at Bengaluru, which is also situated beyond
 the jurisdiction of this court. 8. Learned counsel, therefore, submits that merely on the basis of some
 agreements being signed (not executed) within the territorial jurisdiction of
 this court with respect to the availment of the loan facilities, the declaration
 of fraud of petitioners' accounts in the respondent-BOI, Mumbai branch
 cannot entitle the petitioners to invoke the jurisdiction of this court. 9. In response to the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing
 on behalf of the respondent-BOI, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of
 the petitioners submits that firstly, there is no objection in writing, secondly,
 the petitioners have not been even furnished with a copy of the order,
 whereby, the petitioners' accounts have been declared as 'fraud'. He submits
 that the petitioners have pleaded various aspects in the respective writ
 petitions to substantiate that at least a part of the cause of action has arisen
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this court. 10. Learned counsel has taken this court to page no.84 paragraph G of
 W.P.(C) 7962/2023 and page no.76 paragraph F of W.P.(C) 10525/2023 to
 submit that the petitioners have clearly averred as to how a part of the cause
 of action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this court. While
 placing reliance on paragraph no.21 of the Full Bench decision of this court
 in the case of Sterling Agro Industries Ltd. v. Union of India & Ors.1 , he
 submits that the Full Bench has considered various earlier pronouncements
 and has concluded that the question 'whether a High Court has territorial
 jurisdiction to entertain a writ petition' must be answered on the basis of the
 averments made in the petition; the truth or otherwise, whereof, is
 immaterial. According to him, the question of territorial jurisdiction must be
 decided on the facts pleaded in the petition and in this case, the petitioners
 have specifically averred as to how this court has territorial jurisdiction to
 entertain the instant writ petitions. 11. He has also placed reliance on another decision of this court dated
 03.07.2009 in W.P.(Crl) 37/2009 titled as Mrs. Malini Mukesh Vora v.
 Union of India and Ors. While placing reliance on paragraph nos.17, 18
 and 21 of the said decision , he submits that after amendment in Article
 226(2) of the Constitution of India, the jurisdiction of the High Court has
 widened. According to him, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Navinchandra N. Majithia v. State of Maharashtra and Ors.2 has observed
 that the introduction of Article 226(2) of the Constitution of India has
 widened the width of the area in respect of writ issued by different High
 Courts. He, therefore, submits that in view of the amendment in Article 226 1 2011 SCC OnLine Del 3162. (2) of the Constitution of India, this court has the requisite jurisdiction to
 issue a writ even against the parties which are located outside the territorial
 jurisdiction of this court. 12. Learned counsel has also placed reliance on a decision of this court in
 the case of Vishnu Security Services v. Regional Provident Fund
 Commissioner3 to contend that in the absence of any plea of forum non-
 conveniens, the rejection of the writ petition would not be proper. While
 placing reliance on the various paragraphs of the said decision , learned
 counsel submits that the concept of forum conveniens has to be considered
 in the context of various circumstances such as the appropriateness of
 bringing the lis before the court, the interest of the parties and witnesses etc.
 He, accordingly, submits that the concept of forum non-conveniens
 fundamentally means that it is obligatory on the part of the court to see the
 convenience of the parties before it. 13. According to him, the petitioners have already resorted to filing the
 petition within the territorial jurisdiction of this court, therefore, the present
 court is the most convenient forum for them to ventilate their grievance. He
 submits that the respondents have offices throughout the country and in the
 present scenario, it would not be difficult for the respondents to defend their
 action before this court. According to him, the effect of the declaration of
 the petitioners' accounts as 'fraud' has pan-India implications and therefore,
 the respondents cannot deny the aspect of accrual of at least a part of the
 cause of action before this court. (2000) 7 SCC 640. 2012 SCC OnLine Del 1024. 14. While extensively reading paragraph no.5 onwards of the decision in
 the case of Vishnu Securities (supra), he submits that this court has
 consistently held that the choice of the party, who approaches the court
 should be respected and be given due precedence. Learned counsel then
 submits that the decision in the case of Vishnu Securities (supra) has been
 consistently followed in all subsequent decisions and to substantiate his
 submissions, he has also placed reliance on the decisions of this court in
 W.P.(C.) 6354/2022 titled as M/s. INCRED Financial Services Ltd. v.
 Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement and in W.P.(C.) 3460/2022
 titled as Geetika Mallan & Anr. v. Deputy Director, Directorate of
 Enforcement, New Delhi & Ors . 15. Learned counsel further places reliance on the decision in the case of Sunil Mehdiratta v. Union of India4 , and while reading paragraph no.8, he
 submits that the discretion whether to entertain a writ petition or otherwise
 will have to be decided on the basis of sound principles of law such as the
 principles laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and this court to
 entertain writ petitions, even when a part of cause of action arises within the
 jurisdiction of a particular High Court. 16. While distinguishing the decision of this court in the case of Angika
 Development Society v. Union of India & Ors.5 , he submits that even this
 court has also noted the principle that even if a small part of the cause of
 action arises within the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court, although
 the same by itself may not be considered to be a determinable factor, the 4 2001 ILR DEL 2 554. 2023:DHC:7362. court has to take into consideration various aspects and then only it can
 exercise its discretionary jurisdiction by invoking the doctrine of forum
 conveniens. 17. Lastly, he has relied on the decision in the case of Amarjeet Sharma
 v. Serious Fraud Investigation Office6 , to submit that even a small
 difference of fact may make a world of difference between the conclusions
 to be reached in two cases. He has read over paragraph no.29 of the said
 decision to submit that each case will have to be considered depending upon
 the facts and circumstances therein and no decision can be relied upon
 blindly, without taking into consideration various facts and circumstances. Analysis 18. Having considered the submissions advanced by the learned counsel
 appearing on behalf of the parties, this court finds it appropriate to primarily
 delve into the 'cause of action' in both these petitions to decide the
 challenge to the jurisdiction. 19. The generic definition of the term 'cause of action', as provided by Section 20 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908, refers to the "fact which is
 necessary to establish to support a right to obtain a judgment. 20. The 'cause of action' has also been defined in P. Ramanatha Aiyar in
 Advanced Law Lexicon, 3rd Edition, Volume 1, as under:- 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the case of Bloom Dekor
 Ltd. v. Subhash Himatlal Desai7 observed as under: 22. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Om Prakash
 Srivastava v. Union of India8 , has also ventured into the question as to what
 constitutes a 'cause of action' and held as under:- 23. Furthermore, in the case of Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. v. Union of
 India,9 the Hon'ble Supreme Court made a pertinent observation with
 respect to the doctrine of 'cause of action', which reads as under:- 24. Recently, this court in a case being W.P. (C) no.15556/2023 titled as Bharat Nidhi Limited v. Securities Exchange Board of India & Ors. has
 held as under:- 25. It is significant to advert to the extensive discussion in the case of Bharat Nidhi (supra) on the nature and scope of Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India vis-à-vis the doctrine of forum non-conveniens. The
 relevant paragraphs of the said decision read as under:- 57. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court had an occasion to construe the
 original unamended Article 226 in the case of Election
 Commission, India v. Saka Venkata Rao , wherein, a strict and
 restrictive construction was accorded to Article 226. 58. Thereafter, the issue once again came up for consideration
 before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Lt. Col. Khajoor
 Singh v. Union of India , whereby, the decision in the case of Saka
 Venkata Rao (supra) was approved and it was unequivocally
 settled that functioning or the effects of the action of the
 government would not confer the jurisdiction upon the High Court.
 It was held that the power of the High Court to issue writs was
 subject to two-fold limitations. Firstly, such writs cannot run
 beyond the territories subject to its jurisdiction and secondly, it
 was settled that the person or authority to whom the writ may be
 issued must be amenable to the jurisdiction of the High Court
 either by residence or location within territories subject to its
 jurisdiction. 59. While ruling upon the scope of introducing the concept of
 cause of action as a condition for the exercise of jurisdiction under Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:PRATIMA Signing Date:19.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
16:43:33 KUMAR KAURAV -13 - Article 226 , in the case of Lt. Col. Khajoor Singh (supra), it was
 held as under: 61. The rationale behind the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment)
 Act, 1963 , which paved the way for the applicability of the concept
 of „cause of action‟ which was earlier rejected to be read into Article 226(1) , is captured in the Statement of Objects and Reasons
 appended to the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Bill, 1962 and
 the same reads as under: 62. In the words of Sh. A.K. Sen, the then Law Minister, while
 introducing the Fifteenth Amendment Bill, the intention behind
 introducing the then Article 226(1A) which is the present-day Article 226(2) was as under: 63. According to DD Basu, Commentary on the Constitution of
 India, 8th Ed., Vol. 10, Articles 214-226 (Contd.), the rationale
 behind the amendments is explained in the following words: The Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) came into
 force on 5th October, 1963. However, as seen above,
 this clause does not confer new jurisdiction on a High
 Court, but provides an additional ground and extends
 its jurisdiction beyond the boundaries of the State if the
 cause of action arose within its territory." 64. A perusal of Clause 2 of Article 226 indicates that the writ
 jurisdiction can be exercised by the High Court primarily in relation
 to the territories within which the cause of action, wholly or in part
 arises. However, the location of such Government or authority or
 residence of such person, outside the territories of the High Court will
 not deter the High Court from issuing the appropriate writ. 65. The introduction of Clause (2) in Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India widened the width of the area for issuance of Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:PRATIMA Signing Date:19.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
16:43:33 KUMAR KAURAV -17 - writs by different High Courts, however, the same cannot be
 construed to completely dilute the original intent of the Constitution
 makers which is succinctly encapsulated in Clause (1) of Article 226. Rather, Clause (2) is an enabling provision, which supplements
 Clause (1) to empower the High Courts to ensure an effective
 enforcement of fundamental rights or any other legal right. Therefore,
 the power of judicial review cannot be circumscribed by the location
 of the authority against whom the writ is issued, however, the same
 does not mean that the constitutional mandate enshrined under Article
 226 (1) can be completely neglected or whittled down. 66. On this aspect, it is significant to advert to a decision of the
 Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in the case of Jayaswals Neco
 Limited v. Union of India and Others , wherein, it was held that Article 226(2) has only extended the jurisdiction of the High Courts
 beyond its territorial limits but it does not supplant Article 226(1). The relevant paragraph of the said decision reads as under: The introduction of Article 226 (2) , as observed in the case of Navinchandra N. Majithia (supra) widened the width of the area
 in respect of writs issued by different High Courts. In fact, Article 226(2) can be construed as an exception to the
 limitations mentioned in Election Commission, India (supra)
 and approved in Khajoor Singh (supra). The power conferred
 on the High Courts under Article 226 could now be as well
 exercised by any High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation
 to the territories within which the cause of action, in whole or in
 part, arose and it was no matter that the seat of the authority
 concerned was outside the territorial limits of the jurisdiction of
 that High Court. This distinction between the provisions of Article 226 (1) and 226 (2) has to be maintained. While Article
 226 (1) empowers a High Court to issue writs to a person,
 authority or government within its territorial limits de hors the
 question of where the cause of action arose, Article 226 (2) enables High Courts to issue writs to persons, authorities or
 governments located beyond its territorial limits provided a
 cause of action arises (in whole or in part) within the territorial Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:PRATIMA Signing Date:19.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
16:43:33 KUMAR KAURAV -18 - extent of the said High Court. What Article 226 (2) has done is
 to extend the jurisdiction of the High Courts beyond their
 territories in cases where part of the cause of action arises
 within its territories. Therefore, Article 226 (2) extends and
 does not supplant Article 226 (1). The decision of the Supreme
 Court in the case of State of Rajasthan and Ors. v. Swaika
 Properties and Anr.:1985 ( 3) SCC 217, Oil and Natural Gas
 Commission v. Utpal Kumar Basu and Ors. : 1994 (4) SCC 711
 as well as Adani Exports (supra) and Kusum Ingots (supra) all
 pertain to Article 226 (2) of the Constitution and have reference
 to the question of cause of action. It is true, as observed in Kusum Ingots (supra), that the decision in Khajoor Singh (supra) would not be relevant insofar as the argument of cause
 of action is concerned inasmuch as Khajoor Singh (supra) was
 a decision rendered prior to the 15th Amendment of the
 Constitution. But, this does not mean that what Khajoor Singh (supra) has decided in respect of Article 226 (1) can be
 whittled down or ignored. That is a decision of seven judges of
 the Supreme Court and, with regard to the provisions of Article 226 (1) , it is definitive." [Emphasis supplied] 67. Thus, the salient aspects which emerge out of the aforesaid
 discussion can be delineated forthwith as: conveniens. The principles of forum non-conveniens
 and that of Article 226(2) operate in different field,
 where Article 226(2) (originally Article 226 (1A)) was
 inserted to solve the problem of a litigant needing to go
 to a High Court where the seat of government authority
 was present. (ii) In other words, merely because Article 226(2) allows jurisdiction to be conferred on a High Court in
 the absence of the seat of a government authority being
 under its jurisdiction; this does not in itself mean that
 the presence of a seat shall automatically grant
 jurisdiction. (iii) Article 226(2) allows jurisdiction to be conferred if
 the cause of action, either in part or whole, had arisen
 in the jurisdiction of a High Court, however, where the
 purported cause of action is so minuscule so as to make
 a particular High Court non- convenient, it is then that
 the concept of forum non-conveniens applies." 26. It was further held in the case of Manish Kumar Mishra v. Union of
 India & Ors.10 that every fact pleaded in the writ petition will not form a
 part of the bundle of facts in order to answer a determinative question as to
 whether the cause of action arises within the jurisdiction of the court or not.
 The relevant paragraph reads as under: [Emphasis suuplied] 27. It was further held in the case of Bharat Nidhi (supra) that the
 doctrine of 'cause of action' in relation to Article 226 of the Constitution,
 hence, becomes limited to the integral facts of the case and the situs of the
 cause of action then is construed as the situs where the material, essential
 and integral facts arose. 28. The situs of the cause of action vis-à-vis the doctrine of forum
 conveniens was also discussed in the case of Nasiruddin v. STAT11,
 wherein, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under: The court will find out in each case whether the jurisdiction of
 the court is rightly attracted by the alleged cause of action." [Emphasis supplied] 29. It is to be noted that the reliance can be placed on the decision in the
 case of State of Goa v. Summit Online Trade Solutions Pvt. Ltd.12 , wherein
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court while deciding the challenge to the government
 notification by the company based in Sikkim, examined the issue of 'cause
 of action' and held that:- 30. At this stage, it is pertinent to note that the petitioner in W.P.(C.)
 7962/2023, while pleading that this court has the requisite jurisdiction to
 decide this matter, has made the following averments:- 31. Furthermore, in W.P.(C) 10525/2023, while dealing with the issue of
 jurisdiction of this court, the petitioner has made the following specific
 averments that:- 32. A perusal of the aforementioned averments made by the petitioners in
 both the writ petitions would exhibit that, according to them, the basis to
 exercise jurisdiction of this court is due to the following factors:- 33. Furthermore, the respondent-BOI while retorting to the
 abovementioned averments and objecting to the jurisdiction of this court
 distinctly submits that neither any cause of action nor any part of it has
 arisen within the jurisdiction of this court. The relevant paragraphs of the
 written submission filed on behalf of the respondent-BOI in W.P.(C)
 7962/23 are as follows:- 34. Similarly, the relevant paragraphs of the written submission filed on
 behalf of the respondent-BOI in W.P.(C) 10525/23 are as follows:- 35. It is pertinent to note that in both these writ petitions, the cause of
 action arose when the petitioners' accounts were declared as 'fraud' by the
 respondent-BOI Mumbai branch. Amongst all the bundle of facts, this is the
 fact which is germane for exercising the jurisdiction under Article 226(2) of
 the Constitution. It is the petitioners' contention that due to some of the loan
 agreements signed at Delhi or the respondent PNB's headquarters situated in
 Delhi, the petitioners have the right to approach this court. However, it is
 palpably seen that the integral issue in the entire dispute is with respect to
 the declaration of the petitioner's account as 'fraud' by the respondent-BOI
 Mumbai branch, which is not situated within the territorial jurisdiction of
 this court. 36. At this juncture, this court while pondering over the jurisdictional
 issue raised in the instant petitions, deems it appropriate to determine the
 scope and applicability of the doctrine of forum non-conveniens. 37. As an academic exercise, this court looked into the various
 jurisdictions in order to understand the application of the doctrine of forum
 non-conveniens. It is to be noted that the origin of this doctrine can be traced
 back to Scotland where the court applied this doctrine as an extension to the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:PRATIMA Signing Date:19.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
16:43:33 KUMAR KAURAV -26 - plea of forum non-competens as the parties were not residents of Scotland as
 it been held in the case of Vernor v. Elvies.13 38. Thereafter, in American jurisprudence as well, this doctrine finds
 acceptance wherein, the trial courts refused to entertain cases on the point
 that the residents belong to another state in the United States. Reference can
 be made to the decisions of Pierce v. Equitable Life Assurance Society14,
 Molony v. Dows15, Ferguson v. Neilson16. Taking a cue from the American
 and Scottish jurisprudence, the reference can be made to the decision of
 Logan v. Bank of England17, where in England as well, the courts had also
 started using this doctrine of forum non-conveniens where the plaintiff's
 choice of forum was vexatious and worked as an unnecessary hardship on
 the defendant. 39. It is pertinent to note that the House of Lords in the case of
 Tehran v. Secretary of State for the Home Department18 explained the
 doctrine in the following manner: 40. Furthermore, the United States Supreme Court while dealing with the 13 6 Dict. of Dec. 4788 (1610). (1887) 145 Mass. 56, 12 N. E. 858. (1859) 8 Abb. Pr. 316. (1890) 11 N. Y. Supp. 524 17 [1906] 1 K.B. 141. "The principle of forum non conveniens is simply that a court may
 resist imposition upon its jurisdiction even where jurisdiction is
 authorised by the letter of a general venue statute. These statutes
 are drawn with a necessary generality and usually give a plaintiff a
 choice of courts, so that he may be quite sure of some place in
 which to pursue his remedy. But the open door may admit those
 who seek not simply justice but perhaps justice blended with some
 harassment. A plaintiff sometimes is under temptation to resort to
 a strategy of forcing the trial at a most inconvenient place for an
 adversary, even at some inconvenience to himself." 41. Coming to the Indian jurisprudence, this doctrine is widely applied by
 the courts throughout the country. The Hon'ble Apex Court considered the
 scope of forum non-conveniens in the landmark case of Kusum Ingots (supra) wherein it was held that the court is not obliged to entertain cases
 where even a small part of the cause of action arises within its territorial
 jurisdiction, as the same cannot be construed to be a determinative factor
 which may compel the court to decide the case. The doctrine of forum
 conveniens in appropriate cases entitles the court to exercise its discretionary
 jurisdiction and refuse to entertain such cases. The relevant paragraph is
 reproduced for the reference herein below:- 42. Consequently, in the case of Alchemist Ltd. v. State Bank of
 Sikkim20 , it was held that: 43. The same principle was also upheld in the case of Sterling Agro
 Industries Ltd. v. Union of India & Ors.21 , wherein this Court ruled that
 while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,
 the doctrine of forum conveniens can be applied. Also, the court observed
 that the site of the cause of the action cannot be the sole determinative
 criteria to confer the jurisdiction of this court. Further, the court has laid
 down that the cause of action depends upon the factual matrix of each case
 and cannot be totally based on the situs of the tribunal/appellate
 authority/revisional authority while completely ignoring the concept of
 forum conveniens. In paragraph 32 of the said decision , this court held that:- 2011 SCC OnLine Del 3162. concept of forum conveniens. The Full Bench in New India
 Assurance Co. Ltd. (supra) has not kept in view the concept of
 forum conveniens and has expressed the view that if the appellate
 authority who has passed the order is situated in Delhi, then the
 Delhi High Court should be treated as the forum conveniens. We
 are unable to subscribe to the said view. 33. In view of the aforesaid analysis, we are inclined to modify, the
 findings and conclusions of the Full Bench in New India Assurance
 Company Limited (supra) and proceed to state our conclusions in
 seriatim as follows: 44. It is pertinent to refer to the decision of the Calcutta High Court in the
 case of Heiza Boilers (I) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India22 , whereby, while
 summarizing the principle regarding material and essential facts in the
 bundle of facts constituting the cause of action, the court held that what is to
 be seen is whether a particular fact is a material, integral or essential part of
 the lis between the parties. The relevant paragraph reads as under:- [Emphasis supplied] 22 2009 SCC OnLine Cal 2754. 45. A Coordinate Bench of this court in the case of Shristi Udaipur
 Hotels v. Housing and Urban Development Corp.23 has also dealt with the
 question of whether the 'cause of action' arises within the jurisdiction of the
 court when the registered office of the respondent is situated in Delhi. The
 court noted that the most vital or significant part of the cause of action arises
 outside the territorial jurisdiction of this court and thus, a mere presence of
 the registered office in Delhi will have no implication to determine the
 pertinent question of jurisdiction of the court. The relevant part of the said
 decision is reproduced herein for reference:- 46. A similar view was also taken by this court in the case of Chand
 Sahu Bala & Ors. v. Ministry of Human Resource Development & Ors.24 ,
 wherein it was held that since all the necessary parties were situated outside
 of Delhi, thus the court became the court of forum non-conveniens. 47. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Goa (supra) has
 also applied the doctrine of forum non-conveniens and ruled that the fact that
 a part of the cause of action arose within the territorial jurisdiction of the
 High Court, the party has to disclose that integral facts pleaded in support of
 the cause of action constitutes a cause which empowers the High Court to
 decide the dispute and it must have a nexus with the subject-matter of the
 case. The relevant part of the said decision is culled out as under:- "17. Determination of the question as to whether the facts pleaded
 constitute a part of the cause of action, sufficient to attract clause
 (2) of Article 226 of the Constitution, would necessarily involve an
 exercise by the High Court to ascertain that the facts, as pleaded,
 constitute a material, essential or integral part of the cause of
 action. In so determining, it is the substance of the matter that is
 relevant. It, therefore, follows that the party invoking the writ
 jurisdiction has to disclose that the integral facts pleaded in
 support of the cause of action do constitute a cause empowering
 the High Court to decide the dispute and that, at least, a part of
 the cause of action to move the High Court arose within its
 jurisdiction. Such pleaded facts must have a nexus with the
 subject matter of challenge based on which the prayer can be
 granted. Those facts which are not relevant or germane for grant
 of the prayer would not give rise to a cause of action conferring
 jurisdiction on the court. These are the guiding tests." 48. Reliance can also be placed upon the decision in the case of Union of
 India (UOI) and Ors. v. Adani Exports Ltd. and Ors.25 , wherein the
 Hon'ble Apex Court ruled that:- 49. Furthermore, this court in the case of Angika Development Society v. 2017 SCC OnLine Del 6981. (2002) 1 SCC 567. Union of India & Ors.26, has also held as under: [Emphasis supplied] 50. It is to be noted that the Hon'ble Division Bench of this court in the
 case of Sachin Hindurao Waze v. Union of India and Ors.27 , has also
 propounded on the doctrine of forum non-conveniens and explained the
 cursors to be considered while exercising the writ jurisdiction under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India and held as under:- 51. Also, the reliance placed by the petitioner on the case of Navinchandra N. Majithia (supra) does not come to rescue the case of the
 petitioner in the given set of facts as the impugned action is the executive
 action taken by the respondent-BOI, given the RBI Master Circular on the
 Classification and Reporting of Fraud dated 01.07.2016. Reference can be 26 2023:DHC:7362. made to the judgement of this court in the case of Sonu Sardar v. Union of
 India28 , wherein this court while alluding to the concept of cause of action
 drew a particularity between a situation where criminal investigation was
 pending and where the challenge was merely to an executive action. The
 relevant extract of this decision is reproduced herein for reference:- 52. Considering the case in hand, in W.P.(C) 7962/2023, the petitioner is
 a company having its registered office in Pune and it availed loan from the
 respondent bank's branch office situated in Mumbai. It is, therefore, clear
 that both the parties are based outside the territorial jurisdiction of this court.
 Additionally, the real estate project in question, for which the petitioner has
 availed the credit facilities is also based in Maharashtra i.e., outside the
 territorial jurisdiction of this court. At this juncture, it is to be noted that as
 per the mortgage deed dated 15.10.2013, the mortgaged properties are also
 situated in Maharashtra. In addition, the letter dated 21.06.2022 by EOW
 regarding the preliminary inquiry on the basis of the respondent's complaint,
 on which the petitioner heavily relied upon, is also from the EOW Mumbai
 branch. Consequently, the respondent-BOI Mumbai branch declared the 27 2022 SCC OnLine Del 3287. 2016 SCC OnLine Del 6206. petitioner's account as 'fraud' in view of the RBI circular. 53. Furthermore, in W.P.(C) 10525/2023, the petitioner company has its
 registered office situated in Mumbai and it availed a loan facility from the
 respondent-BOI, Mumbai branch to the tune of Rs. 425 Crores vide the
 sanction letter dated 15.11.2008. In order to avail the said credit facilities,
 the security pledged by the petitioner in the form of a mortgage of land is
 also situated at Malad, i.e., outside the jurisdiction of this court. Thereafter,
 numerous OTS proposals were sent by the petitioner to the respondent banks
 but none of them could be settled. Consequently, the respondent-BOI
 Mumbai branch declared the petitioner's account as 'fraud' in view of the
 RBI circular. 54. In both the writ petitions, the petitioners have challenged the action of
 the respondent-BOI of declaring their account as 'fraud' as per the RBI
 Master Circular on the Classification and Reporting of Fraud dated
 01.07.2016. 55. This court vide order dated 30.11.2023 directed the respondent-BOI to
 produce the communication vide which the accounts of the petitioners have
 been declared as 'fraud'. In pursuance of the said direction, the respondent-
 BOI produced the Fraud Monitoring Return (FMR) report dated 20.09.2019
 in W.P.(C) 7962/2023 and the FMR report dated 12.11.2020 in W.P.(C)
 10525/2023 and a perusal of the same indicates that the impugned action has
 been communicated from Mumbai to the RBI regional office situated at
 Bengaluru. None of the aforesaid facts would confer jurisdiction upon this
 court. 56. Considering the discussion hereinabove, it is crystallised that in order
 to confer jurisdiction to the constitutional courts under Article 226 of the
 constitution, a material, essential or integral part of the cause of action must
 arise within their jurisdiction. To determine a material, essential or integral
 part of the cause of action, it is the substance of the matter that becomes
 relevant. Also, the objection to the jurisdiction of this court can be raised at
 any stage of proceedings, as has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 the case of Jagmittar Sain Bhagat v. Health Services, Haryana29 . 57. It is to be noted that the germane issue in both the petitions is the
 decision of the petitioners' accounts being declared as 'fraud'. It is seen that
 the impugned action is taken from the respondent-BOI's Mumbai branch.
 Also, the communication of the said decision to the RBI regional office in
 Bengaluru also occurred outside the jurisdiction of this court. Furthermore,
 all the consequent actions under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act were
 also taken from the Mumbai branch of the respondent-BOI. 58. Moreover, it is also clear that the loan agreements that the petitioner
 has been relying upon were only signed in Delhi but not executed in Delhi.
 The entire execution of the said agreement happened outside the territorial
 jurisdiction of the court. Assumingly, even if the part of the cause of action
 arises in Delhi due to the said agreements being signed in Delhi, this Court
 still would not have jurisdiction to entertain these writ petitions as the
 material, essential or integral part of the cause of action in both petitions
 arose outside the territorial jurisdiction of this court. As per the rulings 29 (2013) 10 SCC 136. discussed above, it is clear that the contention of the petitioner that the
 respondent-PNB is headquartered in Delhi is of no relevance for deciding
 the jurisdiction of the court as the impugned action is taken from the
 respondent-BOI Mumbai branch and all the consequent actions were also
 taken from the Mumbai branch of BOI. 59. The most vital part of the cause of action i.e., the declaration of the
 petitioners' accounts as 'fraud' has been taken outside the jurisdiction of this
 court and the minuscule part i.e., the loan agreements being signed in Delhi,
 the respondent-PNB having its headquarters in Delhi or respondent-BOI
 having its zonal office in Delhi will have no relevance in deciding the
 jurisdiction of this court. Therefore, merely an iota of cause of action being
 arisen in Delhi, could not in itself be sufficient to encourage this court to
 accept such jurisdiction completely detached from the assessment of forum
 conveniens. 60. With respect to the plea raised by the petitioners regarding this court
 being the most convenient forum for them, it is significant to refer to the
 decision of this court in Bharat Nidhi (supra), wherein, it was held as
 under:- [Emphasis supplied] 61. All the other facts pleaded in the respective petitions i.e., the loan
 agreement being signed in Delhi, respondent-BOI having their zonal office
 in Delhi or respondent-PNB having its headquarters in Delhi are ostensibly
 irrelevant while deciding the jurisdiction of this court. 62. It is pertinent to mention that as per the legislative intent and
 constitutional scheme enshrined under the provisions of Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, it is crystallised that the cardinal duty imposed on the
 constitutional courts is to prevent the abuse of their jurisdiction by the
 parties and relegate back the parties to the forum where a material, essential
 or integral part of cause of action has arisen. 63. In view of the aforesaid, this court is not inclined to entertain the
 instant writ petitions. The same are, accordingly, dismissed alongwith all
 pending application(s), if any. The parties are, however, at liberty to
 approach the jurisdictional High Court. 64. Needless to state that this court has not expressed any opinion on the
 merits or demerits of the instant cases. PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J.