1. Present second petition has been filed under Section 483 of the

Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita seeking grant of regular bail to the

petitioner in case bearing FIR No.04
 No. dated 26.04.2025,, registered for the

offences punishable under Sections
 Section 318(4), 61(2) of the BNS, 2023 and Section 66(D) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 at Police
 olice Station

Cyber Crime, District Pathankot. 2. The petitioner had earlier applied for grant of regular bail

before this Court which was dismissed as withdrawn on 12.02.2026.. The

relevant part of said order reads as under:-- 3. The
 he prosecution case, as emanating from the record, is that the

instant FIR was registered on the basis
 basis of a complaint made by one Ramesh

 1 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 ::: CRM-M--13144-2026 2 Bhavri, who alleged that he and his wife were duped of a substantial amount

of ₹54,26,665/
 54,26,665/- by unknown persons th
 through a well-orchestrated
 orchestrated cyber

fraud. It has been alleged that the wife of the complainant had received a

call from a person impersonating himself as 'Vijay Khanna' from the

Directorate of Enforcement, Mumbai. Mumbai. As per the complainant, the caller

falsely informed them that a bank account had been opened in the name of

the complainant in Canara Bank, Mahim Branc
 Branch,
 h, Mumbai for money

laundering and an arrest warrant had been issued
 issued. Furthermore, the

impersonator had sent a forged arrest warrant of the Supreme Court of India

on WhatsApp and threatened a "digital arrest" unless funds were transferred

for verification. Acting under fear and coercion, the complainant

transferred the huge amount of money into the multiple bank accounts

provided by the fraudsters. On these set of allegations, the instant FIR was

lodged against the unknown person for committing online fraud
 fraud. During the

course of preliminary inquiry and subsequent investiga
 investigation, it had revealed

that the fraud had been executed through telephonic and digital means

involving multiple bank accounts. accounts. During the course of further

investigation, the name of the present petitioner had surfaced on the basis of

the banking trail which
 which indicated that a substantial portion of the defrauded

amount had been credited into the bank account maintained in the name of

M/s Bharat Electronics and Enterprises allegedly jointly operated by the

petitioner. oner. The petitioner is stated to be in custody since 24.06.2025. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has iterated that the

petitioner has been falsely implicated into
 into the FIR in question as his name

does not figure in the same. Learned counsel has further iterated that the

 2 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 ::: CRM-M--13144-2026 3 entire case against the petitioner
 petitioner is based upon disclosure statements of co- co

accused persons, which are inadmissible in evidence. It has been further

argued that neither any recovery has been effected from the petitioner nor

there is any electronic or digital evidence connecting hhim
 im with the alleged

offence. Furthermore, the petitioner has neither made any call to the

complainant nor participated in the alleged fraudulent transactions. transactions

According to learned counsel, the implication of the petitioner is solely

based on account of the alleged misuse of his identity documents by the co- co

accused. It has been further contended that the investigation stands

completed challan has been presented and 02 material witnesses i.e. the
completed; complainant and his wife, have already been examined before th
 thee Court

below who have not attributed any role to the petitioner. According to

learned counsel, the petitioner is stated to be in custody since 24.06.2025

and has undergone incarceration for a substantial period of time
 time. Out
 ut of the

12 prosecution witnesses cited by the prosecution, only 02 witnesses have

been examined till date which reflects that the trial is progressing at a snail's

pace. Furthermore, in view of the large number of remaining witnesses, the

conclusion of trial is likely
 likely to take a considerable amount of time and,

therefore, no useful purpose would be served for continued incarceration of

the petitioner. petitioner Learned counsel has emphasized that the petitioner has clean

antecedents and there is no likelihood of his absconding oorr tampering with

the prosecution evidence. Learned counsel has further submitted that the

earlier bail petition was dismissed as withdrawn with no adjudication on

merits thereof and there has been a material change in circumstances on

 3 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 ::: CRM-M--13144-2026 4 account of prolonged custody and delay in the trial. On the strength of

aforesaid submissions, the grant of petition in hand is entreated for. 5. Per contra, learned
 earned State counsel has vehemently opposed the

grant of bail to the petitioner by arguing that the present case involves
 olves a

serious and organized cyber economic offence involving huge public

money. Learned State counsel has iterated that the petitioner has played an

active role in the conspiracy as the bank account linked to him has been

used for routing the cheated amount. amo It has been further argued that the role

of the petitioner cannot be brushed aside at this stage merely because he was

named in the FIR and his involvement has surfaced during investigation

through the financial trail. Learned State counsel has urged that the gravity

of the offence, coupled with its growing menace in the Society requires a

strict approach by the Court. Grant of bail at this stage would not be in the

interest of justice especially considering the fact that the economic offences,

particularly
 larly those involving cyber fraud and cheating are to be treated

strictly since they erode public trust and cause widespread harm to innocent

citizens. On the basis of these submissions, the dismissal of the petition in

hand is prayed for. 6. I have heard
 rd learned counsel for the rival parties and have

perused the available record. 7. It would be apposite to refer herein to a judgment passed by

this Court in Rafiq Khan vs. State of Haryana and another : 2024: Similar is the ratio decidendi of the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar (supra). Ergo, it can be safely
 inferred
 rred that the decision of a Court qua regular bail petition is
 essentially an interlocutory order and hence the postulation of res
 judicata does not apply to its realm. 9.3 The issue that next craves attention is as to what are the
 factors/parameters for consideration of second/successive regular bail
 petition(s). 9.4. The concordant legal position is that the essential pre- pre
 requisite for consideration of second/successive regular petition is the
 material/substantial change in circumstances and factors of alike

 5 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 ::: CRM-M--13144-2026 6 nature. Indubitably, the further period of incarceration suffered by the
 petitioner-accused
 accused after rejection/withdrawal of first/earlier plea for
 bail, pace of trial, the witnesses turning hostile or not supporting
 prosecution case and changed medic
 medical
 al condition(s) of accused would
 be pertinent factor(s). It goes without saying that these factors are only
 illustrative in nature and cannot by any means be said to be exhaustive.
 9.5 No rigid or universal criterion can possibly be delineated
 to conclusively
 sively govern the exercise of judicial discretion, in
 determining, as to what would constitute as the above stated
 substantial change in circumstances. Factual flexibility, one additional
 or different fact, may cause a sea of difference. There is no gainsa
 gainsaying
 ying
 that each case has its own distinct and unique facts and, hence,
 exercise of such judicial power is best left to the judicial discretion of a
 Court, in accordance with the settled norms of our jurisprudence. 10. As an epilogue to the above discussio
 discussion,
 n, the following
 principles emerge: For maintaining a second petition for bail, it is sine-qua-non to bring forth

change in circumstances. However, since the first regular bail petition was

dismissed as withdrawn and there was no adjudic
 adjudication
 ation on merits thereof,

this Court deems it appropriate to decide the instant one on merits thereof as

well. 9. The grant of bail falls within the discretionary domain of the

Court; ourt; however, such discretion must be exercised in a judicious and

principled
 d manner, ensuring it aligns with established legal precedents and

the interests of justice. While considering a ba
 bail application, the Court
 ourt must

evaluate factors such as the existence of prima facie evidence implicating

the accused, the nature and gravity of the alleged offence and the severity of

the likely sentence upon conviction. The Court
 ourt must also assess the

likelihood of the accused absconding or evading the due process of law, the

probability of the offence being repeated and any reasonable apprehension

of the accused tampering with evidence or influencing witnesses.

Additionally, the character, antecedents, financial means, societal standing

and overall conduct of the accused play a crucial rrole. ole. Furthermore, the

 7 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 ::: CRM-M--13144-2026 8 Court
 ourt must weigh the potential danger of bail undermining the

administration of justice or thwarting its due course. A profitable reference

in this regard is made to the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

titled as State through
 through C.B.I. vs. Amaramani Tripathi
 Tripathi,, 2005 AIR Supreme

Court 3490, relevant whereof reads as under: ). While a vague
 allegation that accused may tamper with the evidence or witnesses may not
 be a ground to refuse bail, if the accused is of such character that his mere
 presence at large would intimidate the witnesses or if there is material to
 show that he will use his liberty to subvert justice or tamper with the
 evidence, then bail will be refused. We may also refer to the following
 principles relating to grant or refusal of bail stated in Kalyan Chandra
 Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan , 2004(2) RCR (Criminal) 254 (SC) :2004(7) SCC
 528 :"The law in regard to grant or refusal of bail is very well settled. The
 court granting bail should exercise its discretion in a judicious manner and
 not as a matter of course. Though at the stage of granting bail a detailed
 examination of evidence and elaborate documentation of the merit of the
 case need not be undertaken, there is a need to indicate in such orders
 ders
 reasons for prima facie concluding why bail was being granted particularly
 where the accused is charged of having committed a serious offence. Any
 order devoid of such reasons would suffer from non
 non-application
 application of mind. It is
 also necessary for the court
 urt granting bail to consider among other
 circumstances, the following factors also before granting bail; they are: c. Prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the charge. (see Ram
 Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh , 2002(2) RCR (Criminal) 250 (SC) : This Court also in specific terms held that : bail." 10. Indubitably, the present case pertains to a large
 large-scale
 scale cyber

fraud involving impersonation of public official
 official(s) and regarding digital

arrest by faking the identity of the Directorate of Enforcement, Maharashtra,

fake arrest warrants and orders. As per the prosecution case, the

complainant and his wife have received calls from a person impersonating

himself as an Officer
 ficer of the Directorate of Enforcement, who threatened

them with arrest in a money laundering case and induced them to transfer

money for verification purposes. Acting under fear, the complainant has

transferred a sum of Rs.54,26,665/- into the different bank accounts

provided by the accused. The modus operandi reflects a well-planned
 planned

conspiracy whereby on the pretext of fake digital arrest, the accused have

 9 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 ::: CRM-M--13144-2026 10 duped the complainant and his wife for a substantial amount. During the

course of investigation, it has been found that the fraud has been carried out

in a planned manner using multiple bank accounts and fake identities. The

involvement of the present petitioner has surfaced during the course of

investigation when a substantial part of the cheated amou
 amount has been traced

to a bank account linked to him. As per the prosecution, the said account has

been allegedly
 alleged used for receiving and further transferring the defrauded

money. The role attributed to the petitioner, though emerging during

investigation, cannot
 cannot be said to be insignificant. At this stage, the argument

that the petitioner has
 ha no knowledge of such transactions or his identity has

been misused, is a matter of trial and cannot be determined at the stage of

considering the plea for grant of bail. In the considered opinion of this Court

the financial trail, prima facie,, establishes a nexus between the petitioner

and the alleged offence. offence The magnitude of the fraud and the manner in

which the amount has been siphoned off are significant factors which weigh

against the grant of bail. 11. The plea of the petitioner that the complainant and his wife

have not identified the petitioner during their examination before the Court

below does not dilute the significance of the financial trail and other

circumstantial evidence collected during the investigation. While

considering a bail petition, the Court
 ourt must evaluate factors such as the

existence of prima facie evidence implicating the aaccused and the nature

and gravity of the alleged offence. offence. Furthermore, no accentuating

circumstances have been made which may prima facie constitute a

compelling ground for the grant of regular bail to the petitioner, especially

 10 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 ::: CRM-M--13144-2026 11 in light of the gravity of the allegations and the evidence placed on record.

The Court cannot accept the plea of the petitioner of false implication

merely based on assertions without evidence. The petitioner has been in

custody since 24.06.2025 but custody, by itself, is not a gground
 round for bail

when the allegations are serious. In view of the seriousness of the

allegations coupled with the nature of evidence, this Court is of the

considered opinion that the petitioner is not entitled to the concession of

regular bail. 12. In view of the prevenient ratiocination, it is ordained thus: (SUMEET GOEL)
 JUDGE

March 20,
 20 2026
Ajay

 Whether speaking/reasoned: Yes/No
 Whether reportable: Yes/No

 11 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 21-03-2026 19:19:03 :::