Tahir Ansari, aged about 19 years, Son of Ali Hussain, Resident of
 Village Heth Bhitra, P.O. and P.S. Karmatand, District Jamtara,
 Jharkhand. Coram: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRADEEP KUMAR SRIVASTAVA ------ For the Petitioners : Mr. A.K. Choudhary, Adv. For the State : Mr. S.K. Tiwari, Spl. P.P ------ Order No.05/Dated- 13.09.2024
 Heard learned counsel for the parties. 2. Apprehending his arrest in connection with Jamtara Cyber Crime
 P.S. Case No. 15 of 2024 instituted under Sections 414 , 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(B) , 66(C) and 66(D) of the Information Technology Act, the petitioner has moved this
 Court for grant of privilege of anticipatory bail. 3. As per F.I.R., a police raid was conducted based on information
 about cybercrimes being committed by several persons, including Sagar
 Mandal and his associates in different villages. During the raids,
 multiple persons were apprehended and various items such as mobile
 phones, SIM cards, bank documents, and cash were seized. The arrested
 persons confessed to committing cybercrimes using stolen mobile
 phones and forged SIM cards. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the
 petitioner is innocent and has committed no offence at all rather he has
 been falsely implicated in this case only on the basis of suspicion. It is
 further submitted that nothing has been recovered from the physical
 and conscious possession of the petitioner or from his house rather
 alleged recovery of mobile phone and motorcycle has been shown to be
 recovered from the outside of the house of the petitioner. Petitioner has
 no criminal antecedent and was never involved in connection of any
 cybercrime. Other co-accused persons who were apprehended have
 been granted regular bail by the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court. The
 alleged mobile phone and the Apache motorcycle allegedly recovered
in front of the house of petitioner does not belong to petitioner and the
motorcycle has also been released in favour of the rightful owner.
Petitioner has no concern with the alleged offence and undertakes to co-
operate with the investigation of the case and also abide by all terms
and conditions imposed by this Court in the matter of granting
anticipatory bail. Hence, the petitioner may be extended the privilege of
anticipatory bail. 5. Learned Spl. P.P appearing for the State has opposed the prayer
for anticipatory bail of the petitioner and submitted that during course
of investigation sufficient positive materials have been collected
showing his involvement. Investigation is still going on against the
petitioner, hence, he may not be extended privilege of anticipatory bail. 6. Considering the facts and circumstances of this case, the nature
of allegation against petitioner coupled with materials available on
record, I am inclined to extend privilege of anticipatory bail to the
petitioner. Accordingly, the petitioner is directed to surrender in the
Court within four weeks from today and in the event of his arrest or
surrendering, he will be enlarged on bail on furnishing bail bond of
Rs.25,000/- (Twenty five thousand) with two sureties of the like amount
each to the satisfaction of learned Additional Sessions Judge-I, Jamtara
in connection with Jamtara Cyber Crime P.S. Case No. 15 of 2024 with
the condition that he will co-operate with the investigation of the case
and appear before the investigating officer as and when noticed by
him and furnish his mobile number and photocopy of the Aadhar
Card with an undertaking that he will not change his mobile number
during the pendency of the case and subject to the conditions as laid
down under Section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

Sachin