1. By this petition the petitioner has alleged non-compliance of order
 dated 26.04.2024 passed in W.P. No.1100/2024. In the said order it was directed
 as under :- 2. Learned counsel for the respondents has submitted that in compliance
 of the order of this Court, the respondents have kept the disputed amount as
 informed to them by various cybercrime agencies in Fixed Deposit. However, no
 order from any competent Judicial Magistrate has been received as yet. The Signature Not Verified Signed by: NEERAJ SARVATE Signing time: 26-09-2024 15:14:54 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-IND:28080

 2 CONC-3642-2024
 cybercrime agencies are insisting to keep the amount in the Fixed Deposits. There
 are certain regulations of the respondents also which are an impediment for
 allowing the petitioners to withdraw the amount as kept in the Fixed Deposits.
 However, it is submitted that if order is passed by this Court, the amount kept in
 the Fixed Deposits would be liquidated and released in favour of the petitioners. 3. The fact that the cybercrime agencies are insisting upon the
 respondents not to release the amount in favour of the petitioners cannot in any
 manner be a reason for the respondents not to do so in view of specific order
 passed by this Court. The said order would also supersede any other
 instructions/regulations of the respondents in that regard. It may be noted that if in
 compliance of the order of this Court the respondents liquidate the amount kept by
 them in the Fixed Deposit and release the same in favour of the petitioners, in

 future, only for the reason in them doing so, they cannot be held guilty of having
 violated any rules and regulations in that regard and no third person can make any
 allegation against them. 4. Learned counsel for the respondents has submitted that the amount kept
 in the Fixed Deposits shall be liquidated and released in favour of petitioners
 within a period of two weeks from today. The said undertaking is taken on record
 in view of which the petition stands disposed off. (PRANAY VERMA)
 JUDGE

 ns Signature Not Verified Signed by: NEERAJ SARVATE Signing time: 26-09-2024 15:14:54