JYOTI SINGH, J. I.A. 17075/2021(under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC , by Plaintiff) 1. Present judgment shall dispose of an application preferred on behalf
of the Plaintiff under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC , whereby the Plaintiff
seeks an ad-interim injunction restraining the Defendants and others acting
on their behalf from manufacturing, selling, offering for sale, advertising in
print and electronic media and/or directly or indirectly dealing in any
products, using the infringing trademark 'SOMANY' and/or its variants or
any other trademark/tradename or logo/device, which is identical to and/or
deceptively similar to Plaintiff's trademark 'SOMANY' amounting to
infringement, passing off, unfair competition and dilution of Plaintiff's CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 1 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

trademarks and/or its variants as well as from using domain name bearing
the trademark/tradename of the Plaintiff or any other domain name identical
or deceptively similar to 'SOMANY'. 2. Plaintiff is a Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 on 20.01.1968 as a Public Limited Company. On 30.01.2007, name of the
Plaintiff was changed from Somany Pilkington's Ltd. to Somany Ceramics
Limited. 3. Defendant No. 1 is a partnership firm and its partners are arrayed as
Defendants No. 2 to 5. For the sake of convenience, Defendants No.1-5 are
hereinafter referred to as 'Defendants'. Defendant No. 6 is the distributor of
Defendant No.1's products while Defendant No. 7 is the manufacturer.
Defendant No. 8 provides an online platform for Defendants No. 1 to 7 to
sell, advertise and promote their products. 4. It is averred in the plaint that Plaintiff is engaged in the business of
manufacturing and trading in ceramic/polished/vitrified/glazed tiles,
sanitaryware, bath fittings etc., including water heaters/geysers. Since its
inception in 1968, Plaintiff is selling its products under the brand/corporate
name/trademark 'SOMANY' and has registrations in the said trademark and
its variants across various Classes, i.e., 01, 02, 06, 11, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 27,
37 and 40. The registrations are valid and subsisting and therefore,
according to the Plaintiff, it has an exclusive right under Section 28 of the
Trade Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act') to use the
trademark in relation to the goods in respect of which it is registered and to
obtain relief of injunction against infringement of the trademark by third
parties. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 5. It is further averred that Plaintiff has extensively promoted the
trademark 'SOMANY' and has expended considerable amount of money
and resources by investing heavily in advertisements. Expenditure incurred
on promotions for the Financial Year 2020-21 alone is to the tune of
Rs. 25.37 Crores. The goodwill and reputation garnered by the Plaintiff is
reflected from its sales turnover for over half a century and as an illustration
the annual sales turnover for the year 2020-21 was to the tune of
Rs. 1622.10 Crores. 'SOMANY' as a trademark, by virtue of Plaintiff's
presence in the business of ceramic tiles for over five decades, has become a
well-known mark and the goods sold under the trademark 'SOMANY' are
instantly recognizable as emanating from the Plaintiff alone. The trademark
'SOMANY' is inherently distinctive and due to continuous and extensive
use has become synonymous with the products and services of the Plaintiff
to such an extent that the reputation and goodwill of the trademark is no
longer restricted to the Classes in which the Plaintiff has obtained
registrations and/or travels across classes. 6. It is averred that quality of the products and services offered by the
Plaintiff has enabled it to make reputed institutions like Tata Projects Ltd.,
DLF Ltd., Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. etc. its clients. Plaintiff also
derives substantial revenues from export of its products overseas to more
than 67 countries and has emerged as the second largest tile manufacturing
Company in the country with a market share of around 13 per cent of the
organized tile industry in India. Plaintiff has also acquired immense
recognition in its manufacturing facilities, the details whereof have been
mentioned in the plaint and has several prestigious awards and honours to its
credit. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 7. It is further averred that Plaintiff has been vigilant and has zealously
protected its intellectual property rights by filing various oppositions as well
as suits seeking injunctions for enforcing as well as protecting its rights
against third parties. Details of interim injunction orders granted by different
Courts have been mentioned in para 15 of the plaint. 8. It is averred that the present suit was filed when Plaintiff learnt that
Defendant No. 1, which is a partnership firm and a distributor of electrical
products including water heaters/geysers, was selling water geysers under
Plaintiff's registered trademark 'SOMANY', without consent or
authorization from the Plaintiff. Plaintiff has neither granted any
distributorship rights to Defendant No. 1 nor permitted it to sell the water
heaters/geysers under its trademark. It was also learnt that Defendant No. 2,
who is a partner in Defendant No. 1, obtained registration under Class 11 for
the trademark 'SOMANY' under registration No. 878241, with a view to
encash upon Plaintiff's goodwill and reputation. It is stated that Plaintiff has
filed a rectification petition on 28.01.2019 against Defendants' aforesaid
trademark and the same is pending adjudication in the Court, after abolition
of IPAB. 9. It is pleaded that while the Plaintiff was pursuing its legal remedies
against the Defendants, it received a notice on 05.10.2021, from the Court of
District Judge (Commercial Court) Rohini, in CS(COMM) 444/2019 and
upon reading the plaint it learnt that the suit for permanent injunction filed
against the Plaintiff is predicated on a user claim dating back to the year
1998. 10. It is further averred that in order to enlarge the platform of selling and
promoting their products under the trademark 'SOMANY', Defendants have CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 4 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

now listed their goods on e-commerce websites, which has further diluted
Plaintiff's registered trademark. According to the Plaintiff, the cause of
action arose in October, 2021, when Plaintiff learnt that Defendants are
increasing their promotions and sales on e-commerce websites and cause of
action further arose when Plaintiff started receiving consumer complaints in
relation to goods sold by Defendants under the trademark 'SOMANY',
giving an impression to the consumers that the goods originate from the
Plaintiff. Having no other option, Plaintiff approached this Court and filed
the present suit seeking permanent injunction against the Defendants as the
impugned acts of the Defendants amount to infringement of statutory rights
of the Plaintiff as well as passing off under the common law, apart from
tarnishing its well-established reputation over five decades.
CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF 11. Plaintiff is a registered proprietor of the trademark 'SOMANY' since
1968 with respect to ceramic tiles and subsequently expanded into other
products with registrations across various Classes. Registrations of the
trademark 'SOMANY' and its variants are valid and subsisting.
Therefore, by virtue of provisions of Section 28 of the Act, Plaintiff has the
exclusive right to use the said trademark and to obtain relief in respect of
infringement thereof, against third parties. Defendants are using the
trademark 'SOMANY' without any authorization from the Plaintiff. The
impugned trademark 'SOMANY' is visually, phonetically and conceptually
identical to that of the Plaintiff's trademark and its use by the Defendants
amounts to infringement under Section 29 of the Act. 12. The material placed on record by the Defendants in support of claim
for user since 1998, includes a sale invoice dated 04.04.2007, which at the CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 5 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

highest evidences sales from the year 2007 and no sales invoice, for any
period prior thereto, has been filed. None of the documents filed in support
the plea of alleged user of the mark 'SOMANY' from the year 1998, with
respect to water heaters/geysers, further the case of the Defendants. Going
by the said sales invoice/other documents, indisputably Plaintiff is a 'prior
user' of the trademark 'SOMANY' and thus has superior rights between the
two. Assuming, for the sake of arguments that Defendants started using the
infringing trademark 'SOMANY' since 1998, even then Plaintiff is a 'prior
user' as it has been using the trademark in respect of tiles since the year
1968. 13. The goods of the Defendants sold under the impugned trademark, i.e.,
water heater/geysers are 'similar' to those of the Plaintiff viz: tiles,
sanitaryware, bathroom fittings, which are being sold for the last several
years and are 'identical' to water heaters/geysers, which have been launched
by the Plaintiff in the year 2019. Since the competing trademarks are
identical, the rival products are similar/identical and the trade channels as
well as the consumer base are the same, the trinity test is satisfied in the
present case. The use of the impugned trademark by the Defendants, is
likely to cause confusion in the minds of the consumers and members of the
trade and amounts to infringement, thereby violating the statutory rights of
the Plaintiff under Section 29 of the Act. 14. Plaintiff had entered into the business of tiles nearly five decades ago
and had adopted the trademark 'SOMANY', which is an arbitrary term,
adopted after the name of the founder of the Company, Shri Hira Lal
Somany. The trademark is, therefore, entitled to a high degree of protection CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 6 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

in the trademark jurisprudence and any use of the mark by a third party is
unlawful and unauthorised. 15. Defendants have not been able to offer any justification or plausible
explanation for adopting the trademark 'SOMANY' for their products, i.e.,
water heaters/geysers. The very fact that Defendants adopted an identical
trademark being in the same industry, knowing its goodwill shows their
dishonest adoption and intent to encash upon the reputation and goodwill of
Plaintiff. For the first time in their reply before this Court, Defendants have
come up with a plea that the trademark 'SOMANY' was adopted, based on
the name of Defendant No. 5's wife, namely, Ms. Sumani Mittal, which is
nothing but an afterthought and a dishonest plea. This is evident from the
fact that the trademark SOMANY is registered in Class 11 in the name of
Defendant No. 2 and not Defendant No. 5. Furthermore, in their own suit
filed before the Rohini District Court, Defendants have averred that
Plaintiff/Shri Suresh Kumar conceived, coined and honestly adopted the
trademark/word name SOMANY in the year 1998 and has been using the
same without any interruption since 1998. Throughout in the Trade Marks
Registry, during prosecution of their trademark as also in the oppositions
filed against Plaintiff's trademark, consistent stand of the Defendants has
been that Mr. Suresh Kumar coined the term SOMANY. Thus, the stand
taken before this Court is not only false but also inconsistent with the earlier
stand. 16. It is the stand of Plaintiff that the rival goods of Defendants and
Plaintiff, i.e., water heaters/geysers and tiles respectively, are used in
bathrooms and are often purchased at the same time and invariably from the
same shops and are thus similar. In fact, Plaintiff's other products sold under CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 7 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

the trademark 'SOMANY', such as sanitaryware, plumbing items and
bathroom fittings, in respect of which also Plaintiff has registrations and
extensive use, are also similar to the impugned goods. In this view, a
consumer with average intelligence and imperfect recollection, who
purchases similar goods with identical trademark is likely to be confused
and deceived into believing that the products originate from or are
associated with the Plaintiff. The transcripts/translations of the consumer
complaints filed in this Court would show actual consumer confusion qua
geysers/water heaters sold by the Defendants, where the consumer was
actually deceived into believing that the products emanated from the
Plaintiff and were of a substandard quality. 17. Even assuming for the sake of argument that the goods of Defendants
are dissimilar, the goodwill associated with the trademark is not restricted to
any particular Class of goods, especially in the case of passing off, where the
'Class' of goods, sold under a reputed and distinctive trademark is
irrelevant. 18. Moreover, Plaintiff has been selling sanitaryware and bathroom
fittings since 2007, which are allied and cognate to the impugned goods and
it has recently expanded into geysers which are identical to the impugned
goods. In dealing with cases of trademark infringement and passing off,
Courts must be mindful of the direction that a business may take in future
inasmuch as loss of possibility of future expansion of business under the
same mark is also recognised as a damage/injury, which a trademark owner
may suffer on account of unauthorized use of the trademark by a third party.
Reliance was placed on the judgment in Laxmikant v. Patel v. Chetanbhai
Shah & Another, (2002) 3 SCC 65, for the said proposition. Since Plaintiff CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 8 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

has legitimately expanded its business into selling water heaters/geysers
under its brand 'SOMANY', if the sale of the impugned products is not
injuncted irreparable injury shall be caused to the Plaintiff's reputation and
business. 19. Defendants have till date not succeeded in substantiating the alleged
user from the year 1998 of the trademark 'SOMANY'. In the rectification
proceedings filed by the Plaintiff in 2019, which is pending adjudication, no
evidence has been placed of their alleged user since 1998. In fact, in the suit
filed by the Defendants before the District Court as well as in the present
suit, the sales invoice filed by the Defendants is dated 04.04.2007, by which
time the Plaintiff had garnered immense reputation for its tiles and had also
entered into the market with respect to goods in Class 11. 20. The trademark 'SOMANY', due to extensive use since 1968 has
become a well-known trademark. Immense goodwill and reputation attached
to the said trademark for over five decades has vested in the Plaintiff,
common law rights for protection of the trademark against third parties. The
dishonest user of the mark by the Defendants is with an intent to
misrepresent to the customers and members of the trade that the goods sold
by the Defendants are associated with or emanate from the Plaintiff.
This is causing irreparable damage and injury to the Plaintiff's goodwill and
reputation and amounts to passing off under the common law of tort. 21. Defendants have been operating and selling geysers through a small
shop along with other electric appliances and are not manufacturers. The
registration has been obtained with respect to the trademark SOMANY in
relation to fans, geysers, heat convector, room cooler, hot plate, hot case,
heating elements etc. fraudulently in class 11, conscious of sales of CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 9 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

Plaintiff's goods under the trademark SOMANY and the immense goodwill
attached thereto. The documents filed by the Defendants reflecting their
cumulative sales with respect to all the electric appliances sold on their shop
are itself indicative of the miniscule sales of the impugned goods.
Defendants have not placed on record a single document showing
advertisements/promotions of the impugned goods or expenses incurred
thereon. Even the recent online sales on Flipkart are not enough to support a
case of prior user or even immense goodwill/reputation, claimed by the
Defendants. CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANTS 22. It is wrong for the Plaintiff to argue that the trademark 'SOMANY'
has been dishonestly adopted by Defendants. M/s. Shree Ganesh Electric
Co./Defendant No. 1 and M/s Aggarwal Traders/Defendant No. 6 are family
concern establishments between Defendants No. 2 to 5 and are leading
manufacturers and suppliers of electric appliances such as fans, coolers,
geysers etc. under the trademark 'SOMANY' and have been in continuous
business since 1998, selling their goods under the said trademark. In the year
1998, Mr. Sanjay Kumar/Defendant No. 5, with the aid of his elder brother
Mr. Suresh Kumar/Defendant No. 2, started to trade in the said goods under
a partnership firm. In the year 2016, Mr. Lall Chand retired as partner of the
firm and Defendants No. 2 to 5 joined. Defendants preferred an application
for registration of the trademark 'SOMANY' vide application No. 878241
under Class 11 claiming user since 01.01.1998. The application was filed
under the name of Defendant No. 2 due to sheer respect and lack of
knowledge of the technicalities of filing such an application.
Defendant No. 5 is the main brain behind the entire business and was the CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 10 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

originator of the idea of manufacturing the goods under the trademark
'SOMANY'. Defendant No. 5 married Mrs. Sumani Mittal in the year 1996
and it is on her name that the trademark 'SOMANY' was adopted by the
Defendants. Thus, the adoption is bona fide and honest. 23. Defendants are honest and reputed businessmen in the business of
electric appliances and are known for their quality goods.
They have acquired a five-star energy efficiency certification from the
Bureau of Energy Efficiency for electric appliances under the trademark
'SOMANY' as well as other ISO certifications for well maintained
operations. 24. Defendants have been peacefully enjoying a monopoly over the
trademark SOMANY with respect to electric appliances under Class 11 and
have been vigilant in protecting their intellectual property rights. In the year
2016-17, Defendants acquired knowledge of the Plaintiff's trademark
'SOMANY' and subsequent thereto, filed oppositions. As a counter blast,
Plaintiff initiated rectification proceedings before the IPAB. When despite
several oppositions, Plaintiff did not cease with the infringement of
Defendants' mark, they filed a suit in the Rohini District Court for
permanent injunction, being CS(COMM) 444/2019, wherein Plaintiff has
been duly served. In fact, the present suit is also a counter blast to the suit
filed by the Defendants. 25. Plaintiff is wrongly contending that it is the prior user of the mark
SOMANY with respect to water heaters/geysers. Plaintiff has not placed on
record any document to show that it even existed in the market between
1992 to 2007 for products other than tiles. There are no invoices showing
any sale between 1992 to 2007, whereas Defendants, to the contrary, have CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 11 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

been selling their products since 1998 and are clearly prior users of the
trademark 'SOMANY' with respect to water heaters/geysers. Even as per
the annual reports filed by the Plaintiff, sales have not been regular and tiles
were sold between 1990-1991 and thereafter between 1995-1996, followed
by sales in the years 2010 and 2011. Therefore, even where the Plaintiff has
attempted to produce evidence of reputation and goodwill, it can at the
highest be with respect to tiles and not for water heaters/geysers.
Interestingly and admittedly, Plaintiff has launched the geysers under the
trademark 'SOMANY' only in the year 2019 and in view of this glaring
fact, Plaintiff can lay no claim to being a prior user. 26. Defendants are registered proprietors of the trademark SOMANY in
Class 11 and thus enjoy all rights of a registered proprietor with respect to
their goods, i.e., water heaters/geysers, under Section 28 of the Act. Under
the provisions of Section 34 of the Act, honest and concurrent user of the
Defendants in respect of their goods as opposed to Plaintiff's use of tiles, is
saved and protected. Section 34 provides that nothing in the Act shall entitle
a registered user of a registered trademark to interfere with or restrain the
use by any person of a trademark identical with or nearly resembling it in
relation to goods in relation to which that person has continuously used that
trademark from a date prior to the user of the first mentioned trademark or a
date prior to date of registration of the first trademark. Therefore,
considering the various factors, such as, Defendants being honest and
concurrent users; prior adopters, prior users and registrants in electric goods,
Defendants are entitled to a high degree of protection and no injunction
ought to be granted in favour of the Plaintiff. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 27. The argument of confusion raised by the Plaintiff is without
substance, as for over 20 years there has been no recorded instance of
deception, save and except, the recent complaint allegedly received by the
Plaintiff, which significantly is post the period when Plaintiff entered into
the field of selling water heaters/geysers. Defendants have been
continuously and extensively using the trademark 'SOMANY' for the
past 24 years without any cause of complaint. The very fact that the Plaintiff
claims that it had no prior knowledge of the Defendants' existence for all
these years is evidence to the fact that there were no complaints received by
the Plaintiff, else the Plaintiff would have approached the Court earlier.
Assuming that any complaint was received by the Plaintiff at any earlier
point in time, the fact that the Plaintiff did not approach this Court until the
filing of the present suit reflects that Plaintiff has acquiesced in the use of
the trademark by the Defendants. 28. Defendants have been using the trademark in respect of electric
appliances in Class 11 since 1998, i.e., much prior to the Plaintiff and do not
need to ride on the goodwill/reputation of the Plaintiff, as alleged. Sales
invoices along with annual turnover certificates for the period 1998-1999 to
2019-2020 would show the use of the trademark by the Defendants as well
as the steady increase in the sales, which have undergone several tax audit
reports. 29. Plaintiff has claimed user of the trademark SOMANY since the year
1968. The documentary evidences furnished before the Court would show
use of the mark in relation to geysers/water heaters only from the year 2019
onwards and the first trademark application filed by the Plaintiff in regard to
the said goods was only in the year 2016 vide application no. 3236480 and CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 13 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

that too on a 'proposed to be used basis'. Defendants, on the other hand,
have been continuously and extensively selling their water heaters/geysers in
huge quantities under the mark SOMANY since the year 1998 and have
achieved humongous sales to the tune of Rs. 3,73,96601/- approximately, in
the year 2019-2020, alone. Defendants have made substantial investments in
publicity and advertisement of the trademark through different print and
electronic media, details of which have been furnished through the
documents filed on the court record. 30. Pertinent it is to note that the user and registration of the mark
SOMANY by the Defendants is with respect to the goods in Class 11
whereas the Plaintiff until 2006 was not dealing with goods in the said
Class. Even in 2006, Plaintiff applied vide application no. 1522110 for
registration in Class 11 but for sanitary and bathroom fittings. The
competing goods, i.e., tiles or sanitary and bathroom fittings are neither
identical nor similar or allied or cognate to the goods of the Defendants in
question. A comparison is sought to be made of the competing goods from
the year 1968 by the Plaintiff overlooking the fact that between 1968 to
2007 Plaintiff was selling tiles under the trademark SOMANY and beyond a
doubt the goods were different with different trade channels. Tiles have a
specific trading channel, with dedicated shops that deal exclusively in the
same and are not usually sold along with water heaters/geysers and even
items such as sanitaryware and bathroom fittings etc., may be allied to tiles,
for the sake of argument, but cannot be considered similar or allied and
cognate to water heaters/geysers. 31. It is denied that Plaintiff's trademark is a well-known mark as the
same has not been recognised or declared so by any Court of law and nor CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 14 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

does it find mention in the list of well-known trademarks issued by the
Trade Marks Registry, a copy of which has been placed on the Court record.
Insofar as the alleged claim to reputation and fame is concerned, the
reputation cannot cross over Classes. 32. For the various contentions raised, learned counsel for the Defendants
had relied on the following judgments:- 33. Despite extensive arguments, Defendants have not been able to justify
the adoption of the trademark SOMANY for their goods. The word
SOMANY is not a dictionary word or an everyday term. The term was
adopted in 1968 by the Plaintiff and is arbitrary with no meaning in relation
to the products sold by the Plaintiff. On the proposition that an arbitrary
trademark is entitled to a high degree of protection, reliance was placed on
the judgment in Telecare Network Pvt. Ltd. v. Asus Technology Pvt. Ltd. &
Ors. , 2019 SCC OnLine Del 8739. The word SOMANY could not have
come to the knowledge of the Defendants through imagination and the only
source was a long reputation and goodwill earned by the Plaintiff since 1968
in the tiles business and subsequently in other allied products. It is a settled CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 15 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

position of law that no amount of user can justify dishonest adoption of a
mark and is deemed to be fatal to the defence of the Defendants. Reliance
was placed on the judgment in Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. (supra). Reliance was also placed on the judgment in Amar Singh Chawla v.
Rajdhani Roller Flour Mills, 1989 SCC OnLine Del 434, for the
proposition that if there is a dishonest adoption of the mark, no amount of
evidence of use can be raised as a defence by the Defendants. In any case
Defendants have not placed any evidence of actual user of the trademark
since 1998 as the sales invoice on record dates back to 2007 and no other
document reflects sales for a period prior thereto. Moreover, the invoices
indicate that Defendants do not give any warranty for their goods and leave
it for the respective companies to furnish the warranties, which is a strange
situation inasmuch as it is difficult to comprehend as to why an owner and
proprietor of a brand will refuse to provide warranty for its goods. 34. It is wrong for the Defendants to contend that Plaintiff is not the prior
user of the trademark SOMANY only because it was not selling water
geysers from 1968. It is settled position of law that merely because a
trademark registration is applied for in a particular class, the proprietor is
forever bound to sell only those goods. Law recognises the fact that owner
of a trademark usually expands its business into similar or cognate and allied
goods and in cases of infringement and passing off determination cannot be
confined to the business in which the proprietor was engaged at the time of
registration but must also look into the directions in which the business may
be carried forward including the current nature of business. Defendants
fraudulently registered the trademark in class 11 for all electrical products
and sold geysers and water heaters, knowing them to be allied and cognate CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 16 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

to the products of the Plaintiff. Even if it is assumed that the competing
goods are dissimilar, Defendants were precluded from adopting SOMANY
because of its long use and reputation garnered by the Plaintiff in India
which is not class specific. 35. Defendants are habitual infringers of various IP rights. They have on
their website juxtaposed various taglines and information of third parties
such as Eastern Alliance Group and Indo and that too verbatim and without
any modification. 36. It is the consistent stand of the Plaintiff that present suit was filed by it
after service of the summons in the suit filed by the Defendants in Rohini
District Court in October, 2021. It is from the pleadings in that suit that
Plaintiff learnt that Defendants were selling goods under the trademark
SOMANY. Affidavits of alleged user claim filed by Defendants in their
opposition proceedings and as available on the website of the Trade Mark
Registry, are without supporting documents and were never served on the
Plaintiff, which is clear from a reading of the counter-statement filed by the
Plaintiff in the Trade Mark Registry. Thus, there is no delay/ acquiescence
in the present matter as alleged by the Defendants. In any case, it is a settled
law that delay is not a ground for rejection of injunction as held by the
Supreme Court in Midas Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd. and Another v.
Sudhir Bhatia and Others , (2004) 3 SCC 90. The suit was filed as soon as
commercial use of the trademark 'SOMANY' came to the knowledge of the
Plaintiff and as held by the Division Bench of this Court in Pankaj Goel v.
Dabur India Ltd. , 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1744, Plaintiff cannot be expected
to pursue every small infringer of its mark until and unless the activities of
the infringer start to affect its business. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 37. Insofar as the defence of acquiescence is concerned, the same
deserves to be rejected outrightly as the same was raised for the first time in
sur-rejoinder before the Court. Furthermore, for establishing acquiescence,
merely pleading knowledge of the use of the trademark is not enough. It
must be proved that Plaintiff did some positive act to encourage use of the
mark by the Defendant. Reliance was placed on para 32 of the Judgement in Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. (supra). Defendants have at the very threshold
failed to show, even prima facie that Plaintiff had any conclusive knowledge
of the use of infringing mark by the Defendants in the market, prior to
institution of the suit at the Rohini District Court, let alone show that
Plaintiff has encouraged the Defendants to use its registered trademark
SOMANY. 38. The contention of the Defendants that the trade channels of the
competing goods are different as tiles, sanitary ware, bathroom fittings and
water geysers are not sold in the same shops, is misconceived as also
irrelevant. In any event, Plaintiff is now in business of selling water geysers
also and as held by the Supreme Court in Laxmikant (supra), Courts have to
be mindful of future expansion of the business of a proprietor of a
trademark. Defendants sell their products on Flipkart and from a perusal of
the screenshots of the said website, it is apparent that on the e-commerce
platforms the 'trade channels' are the same. Since the impugned mark is
identical, competing goods, i.e., water geysers are also identical and the
trade channels are common, the likelihood of confusion is extremely high
and Defendants ought to be injuncted from the user of the mark SOMANY. 39. Assuming for the sake of the arguments that the competing goods are
dissimilar, even then Defendants are liable for infringement under Section CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 18 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

29(4) of the Act as held by this Court in Zed Lifestyle (supra) and V Guard
Industries Ltd. v. Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Ltd. , 2022 SCC
OnLine Del 1593. Looking at the commonality of the trademark, the
competing goods and the similar trade channels, it is obvious that the intent
in adopting the impugned trademark by the Defendants is to encash on the
immense goodwill and reputation of the Plaintiff and misrepresent to the
public that the goods sold by the Defendants emanate from the Plaintiff, so
as to cause harm and injury to the Plaintiff. Defendants are, therefore guilty
of passing off their goods as that of the Plaintiff. STAND ADOPTED BY FLIPKART 40. Insofar as Defendant No. 8/Flipkart is concerned, they have adopted a
clear position before the Court that they shall abide by any order(s) passed
by the Court and have nothing to contest on the merits of the case.
ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 41. I have heard learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff and learned
counsels for the Defendants. 42. It is an undisputed fact that Plaintiff and Defendants are both
registered proprietors of the trademark 'SOMANY'. While the registration
in favour of the Plaintiff dates back to 29.08.1997 in Class 19 with respect to
ceramic tiles, trademark 'SOMANY' was registered in favour of Defendants
on 24.09.1999 in Class 11 with respect to fans, geysers, room coolers etc.
Plaintiff has claimed continuous and extensive user with respect to tiles from
the year 1968 while Defendants have claimed user since 1998, more
particularly, with respect to water heaters/geysers, which is the product in
question in the present suit. Subsequently, as noted above, Plaintiff acquired CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 19 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

registrations in other classes including class 11 for bathroom fittings,
sanitaryware and recently in water heaters/geysers. 43. Case of the Plaintiff sans unnecessary details is that the word
'SOMANY' is a registered trademark of the Plaintiff and is phonetically,
visually and structurally identical to that of Defendants' trademark
'SOMANY'. Its use by the Defendants for similar goods is likely to cause
confusion in the minds of the public and amounts to infringement under Section 29 of the Act. Defendants are using the impugned trademark with an
intent to wrongfully deceive the members of the public that Defendants'
product emanates from the Plaintiff or that Defendants have some
connection/association with the Plaintiff. This, according to the Plaintiff,
amounts to passing off the goods of the Defendants and adversely impacts
its goodwill and reputation besides tarnishing the reputation of the Plaintiff
and diluting/blurring the well-known trademark 'SOMANY', which has
been used since 1968. 44. Defendants, on the other hand, contend that they are the prior users of
the trademark SOMANY since the year 1998 with respect to water
heater/geyser and have been continuously and extensively using the same.
Being the registered proprietors of the trademark SOMANY it is not open to
the Plaintiff to file a suit for infringement against the Defendants. Primarily,
the defence is predicated on prior adopter, prior user, honest and concurrent
user and delay and acquiescence. 45. In the light of the fact that both the Plaintiff and Defendants have
valid registrations in their favour with respect to the trademark 'SOMANY',
the primordial question that begs an answer is as to what are the rights of
one registered proprietor of a trademark against another registered proprietor CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 20 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

of an identical trademark. Section 28 of the Act clearly provides that a
registered proprietor of a trademark has an exclusive right to use the
trademark in relation to the goods or services in respect of which it is
registered as well as to enforce the same in respect of its infringement in the
manner provided by the Act. One of the controversies that arises in the
present case, i.e., competing rights of two registered owners, is directly
covered by Section 28 (3) of the Act. Plain reading of the provision shows
that exclusive right to use the trademark shall not be deemed to have been
acquired by one registrant against the other and this clearly connotes that
holder of the registered trademark will have a concurrent right to use the
same as against another registrant of the same mark. Therefore, Plaintiff
who is a registered owner of the trademark 'SOMANY' cannot sue the
Defendants for infringement of its registered trademark. Interpreting Section 28 of the Act, the Supreme Court in S. Syed Mohideen v. P.
Sulochana Bai , (2016) 2 SCC 683, has clearly held so and relevant passages
are as follows:- 46. The next question that posits, at this stage, is whether the Plaintiff can
claim passing off against the Defendants on the strength of Section 27(2) of
the Act. This issue also arose before the Supreme Court in S. Syed
Mohideen (supra) and deciding the interplay between Sections 27(2) and 28(3) of the Act, the Supreme Court held that collective reading of
provisions of Sections 27 , 28 , 29 and 34 of the Act would show that rights
conferred by registration are subject to the rights of the prior user of the
trademark and that the rights and remedies of any person with respect to
passing off its goods by another person are not affected by the provisions of Section 28(3) , as they have genesis in the common law. It was further held
that rights in passing off emanate from common law and not from the
provisions of the Act and thus remain unaffected and are independent of
other rights conferred by the Act, including those under Section 28(3) ,
which is self-evident from reading of the opening words of Section 27(2) viz; 'Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to affect rights....'. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 47. Another very important, relevant and significant observation in the
aforesaid judgment was that rights to claim passing off are superior than
registration rights as this is a right for protection of goodwill in business
against misrepresentation, caused in the course of trade and for prevention
of resultant damage on account of the said misrepresentation. Passing off
action is therefore, as held, an action in deceit because the common law rule
is that no person is entitled to carry on his or her business on the pretext that
the said business is that of another. Being based on this larger principle that
no person can claim his business to be that of the other and misrepresent/
deceive, this ethos has been time and again affirmed by the Supreme Court,
echoing that passing off right is a broader remedy than infringement.
Another important factor that weighed with the Supreme Court in holding
that a registrant of a trademark can sue another registrant of the trademark
for passing off, was that registration merely recognizes the rights which are
already pre-existing in common law and does not create any rights. In this
context, I may also allude to the observations of Division Bench of this
Court in Century Traders v. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. , 1977 SCC OnLine
Del 50 and of the Bombay High Court in Sunder Parmanand Lalwani v.
Caltex (India) Ltd. , 1965 SCC OnLine Bom 151. 48. The principles that can be culled out from the aforesaid judgments are
that between two entities/persons who are registered owners of the
trademarks, there is no exclusive right to use the said trademarks against
each other and therefore, an action for infringement cannot lie. However, an
action for passing off can be brought by one against the other, invoking the
provisions of Section 27(2) of the Act. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 49. Next issue that is relevant for the decision of the present case is the
interplay of rights arising out of registration qua prior user. In this context, it
would be apposite to refer to paras 30.4 and 30.5 from the judgment in S. Syed Mohideen (supra), which are extracted herein for ready reference: 50. In Jai Prakash Gupta v. Vishal Aluminium Mfg. Co. 1996 SCC
OnLine Del 599, a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court held that in between two
parties claiming actual user as against the prior user, the party, who is prior
in point of time, will have advantage over the other. Even with regard to CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 24 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

prior registration of the trademark, as against the prior user, rights of the
latter will prevail. In an action for passing off, in order to succeed in getting
an interim injunction, Plaintiff has to establish user of the mark prior in
point of time than the impugned user by the Defendant. It was further held
that registration of the mark prior in point of time of the Defendant to user
by the Plaintiff is irrelevant in an action for passing off as mere presence of
the mark in the Register maintained by the Trade Marks Registry does not
prove its user by the person in whose name the mark is registered. In this
context, I may also refer to the following passage from the judgment in Century Traders (supra):- 51. The proposition that the rights of a prior user are superior than that of
the registrant and even a registered proprietor cannot interfere with such
rights was also laid down by a Division Bench of this Court in N.R. Dongre and Ors. vs. Whirlpool Corp. & Anr. 1995 SCC OnLine Del
310, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court by a judgment delivered on
30.08.1996. 52. Therefore, it is a settled law that a prior user of a trademark has a
superior right over a registered proprietor and in case of any conflict or CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 25 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

dispute between two registered proprietors, the 'test' would be to determine
their rights in common law, to see which of the two registered proprietors
are superior, as an action for passing off is predicated on the prior user
generating reputation and goodwill and therefore, registration cannot impact
the said right. Applying the said test and the principles elucidated by the
Supreme Court and this Court, as aforementioned, the issue that comes up
for determination before the question of passing off is examined, is as
to who amongst the Plaintiff and the Defendants is a 'prior user', keeping
in background the fact that both are registrants of the trademark
'SOMANY'. 53. Plaintiff has claimed user since 1968 for the trademark 'SOMANY',
with respect to ceramic tiles. Plaintiff has placed on record its Certificate of
Incorporation dated 20.01.1968, Annual Reports of various financial years,
sales invoices as well as expenditure on advertisements, certified by the
Chartered Accountant, etc. Perusal of these documents shows that the
commercial production started in the year 1972 and the earliest sales go
back to around the said year albeit for tiles. 54. Per contra, Defendants in support of their plea of user of the
trademark 'SOMANY' from 01.01.1998, with respect to water heaters/
geysers have placed on record a Certificate of Registration. It is significant
to note that while the claim to user is from the year 1998, the sales invoice
filed by the Defendants, in support of the sales is dated 04.04.2007. There is
no sale invoice or any other documentary evidence to support sales for the
period prior to the said date. Therefore, the material on record prima facie
supports the Plaintiff's case that it is the prior user of the trademark
'SOMANY' albeit with respect to tiles compared to the Defendants, whose CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 26 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

user with respect to water heaters/geysers is from a subsequent date. Even if
for the sake of arguments, the case of Defendants is to be accepted on the
face value and user is accepted from 1998, they cannot prima facie succeed
as the Plaintiff has been selling tiles much prior thereto. Whether the
Plaintiff can predicate its claim for passing off on the prior user with respect
to tiles vis-à-vis the impugned products, is the next question that arises for
consideration. 55. Learned counsel for the Defendants had vehemently argued that in
order to arrive at a finding of passing off in favour of the Plaintiff, there
should be some similarity in the competing products or at the least they
should be allied or cognate. In order to answer this question, I may only
refer to a few passages from the judgment in Bata India Limited v. Pyare
Lal & Co., Meerut City and Others , 1985 SCC OnLine All 79 as under:- 47. The law on the subject has been very succinctly
 considered by the learned Single Judge in the Ellora Industries case (AIR 1980 Delhi 254) (supra) in the following words: 56. I may also allude to the judgment in Bloomberg Finance LP v.
Prafull Saklecha & Ors. 2013 SCC OnLine Del 4159, wherein it was held
that the fact that the Plaintiff and Defendants are operating in different lines
of businesses is not a good defence in an action brought by the proprietor of
well-known, reputed or prominent marks. Para 62 of the said judgment is
extracted hereunder for ready reference:- 57. The controversy whether an action for passing off must necessarily be
premised on 'common field of activity' arose before the Bombay High Court
in Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Kirolskar Proprietary Ltd.
and Ors. , 1995 SCC OnLine Bom 312 and I may only refer to paras 13, 14
and 15 of the said judgment , which are extracted hereunder for ready
reference:- 58. In Zed Lifestyle Pvt. Ltd. v. Hardik Mukeshbhai Pansheriya and
Others , 2021 SCC OnLine Del 4086 albeit, in the context of infringement, it
has been held by the Court that even if a trademark is registered in one
Class, its owner is entitled to prevent third parties from using the same in
relation to different category of products. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 59. The inevitable conclusion that can be drawn from the line of
judgments aforementioned is that in an action for passing off, a common
field of activity is not a sine qua non and the real question is whether as a
result of misrepresentation, a real likelihood of confusion or deception to the
public arises with a consequent damage to the Plaintiff, who has formidable
and immense goodwill and reputation on account of usage of the trademark
with respect to the goods in question. Well-known/reputed/distinctive marks
have qualities which transcend goods/services for which they are registered.
Reputation/goodwill attached to such marks confuses a customer into
believing that even dissimilar goods emanate from or are associated with the
holder of the mark. 60. The facts of the present case prima facie lead me to hold that the
trademark SOMANY has acquired distinctiveness and with the passage of
time has become a household name. The averments in the plaint prima facie
are clear pointers to the extensive and continuous user of the trademark as
well as the reputation earned by the Plaintiff. The details furnished on record
such as the annual sales turnover, expenditure incurred on promotions and
advertisements, niche clientele of the Plaintiff etc. are evidence to the fact
that Plaintiff has garnered huge reputation over the last 5 decades and the
trademark SOMANY has become closely associated to the Plaintiff and
none else. Exports to nearly 67 countries also evidences cross-border
reputation. Therefore, applying the principles elucidated in the aforesaid
judgments to the present case, it can be safely held that even if the
Defendants' goods are not similar/allied or cognate to those of the Plaintiff,
there is a likelihood of confusion in the public that the goods emanate from
the Plaintiff or there is a close connection/association between the goods and CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 33 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

the Plaintiff. It was observed by the Court in the case of Bata India (supra)
that the argument of dissimilarity of goods in case of a reputed or
prominent/well known mark, loses sight of the fact that a customer may not
know that Bata was not producing foam or foam material even though the
mark was well-known in the context of shoes and analogous products.
Applying the same analogy to the trademark SOMANY, there is likelihood
of unwary purchasers buying the goods of the Defendants with an identical
mark under an impression that they are manufactured and sold by the
Plaintiff or are at least associated with the Plaintiff. Therefore, there is no
merit in the contention that the dissimilarity in tiles and water
heaters/geysers is a singular factor which will defeat the claim of the
Plaintiff for passing off, if it is otherwise able to prove so. 61. Pertinent it is to mention, at this stage, that while the Plaintiff started
its business in ceramics tiles, it subsequently expanded into sanitaryware and
bath fittings and obtained registrations in Class 11 on 05.01.2007. Later,
Plaintiff also expanded its business into selling water heaters/geysers and
obtained registration on 31.07.2018. This fact is important in the context of
the judgment of the Supreme Court in Laxmikant (supra), where it was held
that Courts have to be mindful of future expansion of the business of a
proprietor of a trademark. Plaintiff is right in its contention that merely
because a trademark registration is applied for in a particular class, the
proprietor is forever bound to sell only those goods. Law recognises the
expansion of business into similar or cognate or allied goods and this factor
is relevant for determination of a claim for passing off. 62. The next issue and the most contentious one that needs to be
examined is whether the Plaintiff has established a prima facie case of CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 34 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

passing off its goods by the Defendants. Passing off is a common law
remedy as opposed to an action for infringement which is a statutory
remedy. The concept has come to this country from England and is a form of
tort. Para 995 from Halsbury in Laws of England, Third Edition, Vol. 38,
is relevant in this context and is as under:- 63. The essential characteristics of a passing off action, in the words of
Lord Diplock in Erven Warnink B.V. v. J. Townend & Sons (Hull) Ltd.,
1980 RPC 31 are as under:- 64. In FDC Ltd. vs. Faraway Foods Pvt. Ltd. , 2021 SCC Online Del
1539, the following principles in relation to the tort of passing off have been
culled out, relying on judicial precedents: - NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

 sustain the action. Imitation or adoption, by the defendant, of
 the plaintiffs trade mark, in such manner as to cause confusion
 or deception in the mind of prospective customers, is sufficient. (ii) The principles for grant of injunction, in passing off actions,
 are the same as those which govern the grant of injunctions in
 other cases, i.e. the existence of a prima facie case, the balance
 of convenience, and the likelihood of irreparable loss in issuing
 to the plaintiff, were injunction not to be granted. (iii) Proof of actual damage is not necessary, to establish
 passing off. However, proof of misrepresentation is necessary,
 even if intent to misrepresent is not approved. The question of
 intent may, nevertheless, be relevant, when it comes to the
 ultimate relief to be granted to the plaintiff. (iv) Passing off may be alleged by a claimant who owns
 sufficient proprietary interest in the goodwill associated with
 the product, which is really likely to be damaged by the alleged
 misrepresentation. (v) Grant of injunction, in cases where passing off is found to
 exist, is intended to serve two purposes, the first being
 preservation of the reputation of the plaintiff, and the second,
 safeguarding of the public against goods which are "passed off
 as those of the plaintiff. (vi) The ingredients/indicia of the tort of passing off are the
 following: NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 (ii) likelihood of confusion in the minds of the public
 (the public being the potential customers/users of the
 product) that the goods of the defendant are those of the
 plaintiff, applying the test of a person of "imperfect
 recollection and ordinary memory", (iii) loss, or likelihood of loss, and (iv) goodwill of the plaintiff, as a prior user. Elsewhere, the five elements of passing off have been
 identified as (a) misrepresentation, (b) made by the
 trader in the course of trade, (c) to prospective
 customers or ultimate consumers of the goods or
 services supplied by him, (d) calculated to injure the
 business or goodwill of another (i.e. that such injury is
 reasonably foreseeable) and (e) actual damage, or the
 possibility of actual damage, to the business or
 goodwill of the plaintiff. (vii) In cases of alleged passing off, the Court, while examining
 the likelihood of causing confusion, is required to consider, in
 conjunction, inter alia, (a) the nature of the market, (b) the class of customers dealing in the product, (c) the extent of reputation possessed by the plaintiff, (d) the trade channels through which the product is made
 available to the customer and (e) the existence of connection in the course of trade. The
 Supreme Court has also held that, in passing off action on
 the basis of unregistered trade marks, the Court is required
 to assess the likelihood of deception or confusion by
 examining (i) the nature of the marks, i.e. whether there were
 demands/label marks/composite marks, (ii) the degree of similarity between the competing
 marks, (iii) the nature of the goods, CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 37 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 (iv) the similarity in nature, character and performance
 of the goods of the rival parties, (v) the class of purchasers, and the degree of care
 which they would be expected to exercise while
 purchasing the goods, and (vi) the mode of purchasing the goods and placing
 orders. (viii) That the defendant is not producing the goods
 manufactured by the plaintiff may not be relevant,
 where the plaintiff' s mark is found to have sufficient
 reputation. (ix) Courts are required to be doubly vigilant where
 passing off is alleged in respect of pharmaceutical
 products, in view of the possibility of adverse effects
 resulting from administration of a wrong drug. For the
 said reason, the degree of proof is also lower, in the
 case of alleged passing of pharmaceutical products. (x) Passing off differs from infringement. Passing off is
 based on the goodwill that the trader has in his name,
 whereas infringement is based on the trader's
 proprietary right in the name, registered in his
 favour. Passing off is an action for deceit, involving
 passing off the goods of one person as those of another,
 whereas an action for infringement is a statutory
 remedy conferred on the registered proprietor of a
 registered trade mark for vindication of its exclusive
 right to use the trade mark in relation to the goods in
 respect of which registration has been granted. Use of
 the trade mark by the defendant is not necessary for
 infringement, but it is a sine qua non for passing off.
 Once sufficient similarity, as is likely to deceive, is
 shown, infringement stands established. Passing off,
 however, may be resisted on the ground of added
 material, such as packing, procurement through
 different trade channels, etc., which would distinguish
 the goods of the defendant from those of the plaintiff
 and belie the possibility of confusion or deception." This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 65. From the conspectus of the aforesaid judgments, it is clear that first
and foremost in order to succeed in getting an interim injunction on the
ground of passing off, Plaintiff will have to establish a prima facie case that
it enjoys goodwill and reputation of such a threshold that the Defendants by
their misrepresentation are likely to pass off their goods as that of the
Plaintiff. In the present case, Plaintiff has averred and argued that Plaintiff is
one of the leading tiles manufacturing company in India. Its shares are listed
with the Bombay Stock Exchange as well as National Stock Exchange of
India Limited and as on 19.10.2021 the market capitalisation was over
Rs.3537 crores. Plaintiff operates from about 6 depots and about 10,000
touch points across the country, which include showrooms/display
centres/dealers/sub-dealers etc. being run under Plaintiff's brand
'SOMANY' exhibiting array of products. Quality of the products offered by
the Plaintiff has enabled it to make reputed Institutions like Tata Projects
Limited, Larsen and Toubro Limited, DLF Ltd., Ashiana Housing, Adani
Township and Real Estate Co. Pvt. Ltd. Etc. its clients. Substantial amount
of revenue is earned by the Plaintiff from export of its product overseas to
more than 67 countries across the world. Plaintiff has emerged as the second
largest tile manufacturing company in the country. Plaintiff has received two
prestigious Power Brand Awards for the years 2011 and 2012, besides the
'Spotlight Award', Corporate Technical Achievement Award from
American Ceramic Society, etc. Plaintiff has expended substantial sums of
money and resources in advertising and protecting the said trademark and
has eventually expanded from tiles to other cognate and allied products. The
sales turnover is indicative of the extensive reputation and goodwill in the
market for nearly five decades. Interestingly none of these averments have CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 39 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

been refuted by the Defendants except for a vague denial in the Written
Statement stating that the averments made in the plaint are self-serving,
boastful, devoid of merit and cooked up stories. 66. In my prima facie view, the documents placed by the Plaintiff in
support of the aforesaid averments show that the trademark 'SOMANY'
enjoys immense reputation and goodwill in India and this apparently was a
good reason for the Defendants to dishonestly adopt the trademark
'SOMANY' so as to encash on the goodwill and reputation of the Plaintiff.
Before proceeding further, I may only refer to a paragraph from a judgment
of Division Bench of this Court in Prius Auto Industries Ltd. (supra),
which was subsequently affirmed by the Supreme Court and is as under:- 67. Comparing the two competing marks, there is no doubt that the
impugned mark is identical to the trademark of the Plaintiff. The question
that needs to be posed at this stage is whether there is a valid cause of action
set up in the plaint so as to show misrepresentation by the Defendants to
prospective customers, in course of trade as well as an injury to the goodwill
and reputation of the Plaintiff. Before proceeding further, in this context, I
may refer to para 998 from Halsbury Law of England Vol. 38 (Third
Edition) as under:- 68. At this stage, an important question arises, viz. why was 'SOMANY'
adopted by the Defendants in the year 1998, as alleged, when at this point in CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 41 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

time Plaintiff was using the trademark 'SOMANY' and had substantial sales
and reputation in respect of tiles. 69. Plaintiff has explained in its reply to the Examination Report in the
Opposition Proceedings relating to registration of Plaintiff's mark
'SOMANY GRANDE' in Class 11 and it was also argued on behalf of the
Plaintiff that the trademark 'SOMANY' was honestly adopted from the
surname of its founder Shri Hira Lal Somany. Somany Ceramics Limited
was originally named as Somany-Pilkington's Ltd. which was started by
Shri H.L. Somany on 20.01.1968. Subsequently, the name was changed to
the present Somany Ceramics Limited. On the other hand, the explanation
given by the Defendants for adoption of the trademark 'SOMANY' is that
Defendant No. 5 is the main brain behind the formation and operations of
Defendant No. 1/ M/s. Shree Ganesh Electric Co. and since Defendant No. 5
married Mrs. Sumani Mittal in the year 1996, her name formed the basis of
adoption of the trademark 'SOMANY'. 70. This explanation, in my prima facie view, is an afterthought,
implausible and wholly unconvincing. Learned Senior Counsel for the
Plaintiff had argued and rightly so that the trademark 'SOMANY' used by
the Defendants in Class 11 is registered in the name of Defendant No. 2,
Mr. Suresh Kumar and not Defendant No. 5. Further, in the suit filed before
the Rohini District Court, as aforementioned, Defendants have averred as
under: This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963 71. It was also pointed out that throughout before the Trade Marks
Registry during the prosecution of their trademark as also oppositions filed
against the Plaintiff's trademark, Defendants have taken a consistent stand
that Mr. Suresh Kumar coined the term 'SOMANY'. In the absence of any
plausible and satisfactory explanation by the Defendants, adoption of the
trademark 'SOMANY' cannot in my prima facie view be held to be honest
and bonafide. It is a settled law that no amount of user can be a justification
or an explanation for dishonest adoption and the present case is a textbook
example prima facie of a dishonest adoption, where despite having
knowledge of the trademark 'SOMANY' used by the Plaintiff for several
years and its repute in the market, Defendants chose to adopt the same.
Relevant in this regard would be to refer to a judgment of this Court in Rolex SA v. Alex Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. , 2014 SCC OnLine Del 1619
where the Defendant had adopted the trademark 'ROLEX' of the Plaintiff,
who had coined the mark 'ROLEX' and had extensive use spanning across a
century with immense goodwill and reputation. The explanation given was
that 'ROL' is derived from Rolled Gold used for manufacturing jewellery
and the suffix 'EX' is derived from the name of Mr. Joseph Mudailyar's son
Alex, who was the Director of Defendant No. 1. The Court finding the
explanation to be false and an afterthought observed as under: 72. In this context, I may also refer to the following passage from the
judgment of the Bombay High Court in Jawed Habib Hair and Beauty Ltd.
v. Manoj Kumar Sharma , 2018 SCC OnLine BOM 15951, which is as
follows:- 73. In fact, as already noted above, it intrigues the Court as to why the
Defendants adopted the name 'SOMANY' which is a coined and an
arbitrary word and as rightly pointed out by the Plaintiff is not a dictionary
word. Over the years, the same has come to be associated with the Plaintiff
alone and the use of the said mark by the Defendants in my prima facie view
would cause misrepresentation amongst the members of the public, even
with respect to water heaters/geysers into believing that the goods originate
and emanate from the Plaintiff. It goes without saying that an attempt by the
Defendants to use the trademark 'SOMANY' will affect the Plaintiff in
its business and trading activities and consequently its goodwill and
reputation. 74. Insofar as delay is concerned, this Court finds prima facie merit in the
submission of the Plaintiff that they learnt of the Defendants impugned
action only in the year 2021 from the sales on Flipkart as also when
summons were received in the suit filed by the Defendants in the Trial
Court. It is a settled law that delay is not a ground for rejection of injunction
as held by the Supreme Court in Midas Hygiene (Supra). The suit was filed
as soon as commercial use of the trademark 'SOMANY' came to the
knowledge of the Plaintiff and as held by the Division Bench of this Court in Pankaj Goel v. Dabur India Ltd. , 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1744, Plaintiff
cannot be expected to pursue every small infringer of its mark until and
unless the activities of the infringer start to affect its business. 75. Insofar as the defence of acquiescence is concerned, it was rightly
argued on behalf of the Plaintiff that for establishing acquiescence, merely CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 45 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

pleading knowledge of the use of the trademark is not enough. It must be
proved that Plaintiff did some positive act to encourage use of the mark by
the Defendant as held in Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. (supra). Defendants
have at the very threshold failed to show, even prima facie that Plaintiff had
any conclusive knowledge of the use of the trademark SOMANY by the
Defendants in the market, prior to institution of the suit at the Rohini District
Court, let alone show that Plaintiff has encouraged the Defendants to use its
registered trademark SOMANY. 76. Learned counsel for the Defendants relied on the judgment in Nandini
Deluxe (supra) to argue that even well-known marks cannot have a
monopoly, even in a particular Class if the same have been used for certain
specific goods. The judgment in my prima facie view does not apply to the
present case where the trademark 'SOMANY' is an arbitrary word as
against the word NANDINI which was held to be a generic word as also the
fact that in the present case the immense reputation and distinctiveness
attached to the trademark 'SOMANY' permits the Plaintiff to seek
protection in other Classes, in view of the law laid down in Laxmikant (supra). 77. Reliance on Neon Laboratories (supra) by the Defendants is also
misplaced as the Defendants have been unable to prima facie establish their
case of prior user as against the Plaintiff. 78. Reliance was placed on the judgment in Prius Auto Industries Ltd. (supra) to argue that the reputation acquired by the Plaintiff since 1968 was
not sufficient to justify its absence with respect to sale of goods in Class 11.
The said judgment in my prima facie view does not help the Defendants.
Plaintiff in the present case has prima facie established user of the trademark CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 46 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

'SOMANY' since 1972, continuously, extensively and uninterruptedly with
respect to tiles and the reputation it has garnered in respect thereof as well as
expansion of its business in sanitaryware and bathroom fittings as well as
water heaters/geysers. 79. Defendants also placed heavy reliance on the judgment in Hindustan
Pencils Pvt. Ltd. (supra) to substantiate the arguments that there is delay in
the Plaintiff approaching this Court. Plaintiff has been able to prima facie
establish that it was only in October, 2021 that the Plaintiff learnt of the
impugned activities of the Defendants through the e-commerce websites and
subsequent thereto when they started receiving consumer complaints as well
as when the notice was received in the suit filed by the Defendants in the
District Court. Moreover, it is a settled law, as held in Midas Hygiene (supra), that mere delay in bringing action is not sufficient to defeat grant of
injunction in a case where the Plaintiff is able to prima facie establish
dishonest adoption of the impugned mark by the Defendants. It is equally
well-settled that Plaintiff cannot be expected to pursue every small infringer
of its trademark unless the activities of the infringer begin to affect its
business. 80. Injunction is an equitable relief based on equitable principles. In my
view, the Plaintiff has established a prima facie case of prior user of the
trademark 'SOMANY' as well as its reputation and goodwill. Use of the
mark 'SOMANY' by the Defendants in my prima facie view constitutes
passing off as there is an intent to pass off the goods of the Defendants as
that of the Plaintiff's by encashing on their goodwill and reputation. Balance
of convenience lies in favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendants and CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 47 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/002963

irreparable injury and harm shall be caused to the Plaintiff if the Defendants
are not restrained from using the trademark SOMANY. 81. For all the aforesaid reasons, Defendants, their partners, their
assignees in business, franchisees, licensees, distributors and agents and all
other persons claiming under them are restrained from manufacturing,
selling, offering for sale, advertising in print and electronic media and/or
directly or indirectly dealing in water heaters/geysers, using the trademark
'SOMANY' and/or its variants or any other trademark/tradename or
logo/device, which is identical to and/or deceptively similar to Plaintiff's
trademark 'SOMANY' amounting to passing off, unfair competition and
dilution of Plaintiff's trademark and/or its variants. 82. However, since Defendants have been selling the impugned product
since 2007, this Court deems it appropriate to permit the Defendants to sell
the same for a further period of 6 months, with a caveat that they shall not
during the said period expand their business in water heaters/geysers under
the trademark 'SOMANY' or assign the said trademark to any third party. 83. Defendants are, however, free to sell the water heaters/geysers
without the trademark 'SOMANY'. 84. Needless to state, the observations and views rendered in the present
judgment are only prima facie and shall not affect the final adjudication of
the rights and contentions of the parties in the suit after the trial is complete. 85. Application is accordingly allowed and disposed of. JYOTI SINGH, J
JULY 28 , 2022/shivam/rk CS(COMM) 678/2021 Page 48 of 48 This is a digitally signed Judgement.