1. Satyam Vada, Dharmam Chara, which literally translates to
 „speak the truth, pursue righteousness‟, referenced from the
 Taittireeya Upanishad, reckons the conviction of the ancient
 education system of Bharat, wherein, the aforesaid exhortation was
 sermonized during the convocation ceremonies of disciples to sum up
 the objective of education. It is, undoubtedly, the pillars of truth which
 make the superstructure of education stand firm and tall. It is also a
 truism that nothing could refine and develop human intellect except
 vidya (education). In spiritual realm, it leads to liberation of self and in
 the mundane spheres, it encompasses a holistic growth and prosperity. 2. The exaltation of ethics and morality has invigorated education
 to bloom to its pinnacle and the education would lose its purpose if the
 said conditions were negated from it. In fact, it is the duty of an
 egalitarian society to march towards accessible education for all,
 guided by the tenets of morality. The pious fountain of education,
 therefore, must be reached out with utmost integrity and any Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV -3- surreptitious attempt to dislodge such piousness must be checked and
 corrected. 3. The present case, on the contrary, enunciates a harrowing tale of
 blatant subversion of a welfare scheme enacted for extending the
 benefit of quality education to the Economically Weaker Sections
 (EWS) of the society. The case at hand, reflects a tormenting state of
 affairs where the opulent class is putting in blood, sweat and tears to
 reap the benefits of EWS reservation at the expense of the
 economically marginalized candidates. A calculated attempt at
 subverting the cherished constitutional vision of education for all is
 under scrutiny in this case. 4. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, with an
 objective of fulfilling the aspirations of students belonging to
 economically downtrodden sections of the society to attain quality
 education, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3(1) of the
 Delhi School Education Act, 1973 (18 of 1973) read with Rule 43 of
 the Delhi School Education Rules, 1973 under the provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 ,
 passed an Order, namely Delhi School Education (Free seats for
 Students belonging to Economically Weaker Sections and
 Disadvantage Group) Order, 2011 (hereinafter as „2011 Order‟),
 providing free seats for such students. As per the 2011 Order, all the
 schools are required to admit children belonging to economically
 weaker section in class one to the extent of at least twenty-five percent
 of the strength of that class and provide free and compulsory
 elementary education till its completion. 5. Clause 2(c) of the said Order defines a child belonging to
 weaker section as the one whose parents have total annual income of
 less than one lakh rupees from all sources and who have been staying
 in Delhi for the last three years. 6. The petitioner in the instant case is a minor student whose
 father, on 08.01.2013, got the requisite income certificate issued by
 the Tehsildar in the office of the Deputy Commissioner (New Delhi
 District) to secure admission for his son in Sanskriti School, New
 Delhi. The said certificate assessed the annual income of the
 petitioner‟s father to be Rs. 67, 200/- from all sources. 7. The facts of the case show that the petitioner got admitted in
 respondent no.2-School in 2013, availing the quota for EWS on the
 basis of the aforementioned income certificate of his father. 8. The domicile certificate dated 18.02.2012, issued by the
 Executive Magistrate in the office of the Deputy Commissioner (New
 Delhi District) and duly attested by a Judicial Member of the Customs,
 Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, was also submitted to
 show that the petitioner resided along with his parents in Sanjay
 Camp, Chanankya Puri, Delhi. 9. After admission, the petitioner continued to study in respondent
 no.2-School as an EWS category candidate without any difficulty till
 2018. However, the controversy began on 03.01.2018, when the father
 of the petitioner wrote letters to the Principal of respondent no.2-
 School along with the admission form of the sibling of the petitioner,
 seeking alteration in the category of petitioner from EWS to General
 category and change in address of the petitioner‟s residence. Since the
 said letter raised the eyebrows of respondent no.2-School, Signature Not Verified it was Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV -5- forwarded to respondent no.1-Directorate of Education (hereinafter as
 „DOE‟) and accordingly, enquiry from the District Magistrate,
 Jamnagar House, Delhi (DM, Jamnagar) about the income certificate
 of the father of the petitioner was directed. The DM, Jamnagar and
 SDM, M.B. Road, Saket, Delhi, vide letters dated 21.02.2018 and
 07.03.2018, respectively, conveyed to respondent no.1-DOE that the
 said income certificate is found to have been issued by the office. 10. However, a complaint dated 15/16.03.2018 was filed by
 respondent no.2-School against the father of the petitioner in P.S.
 Chanakya Puri, on the ground that the copy of the Voter IDs produced
 by him was forged as it did not reflect the correct date of registration
 as a voter. While examining the veracity of the documents from the
 office of the Chief Electoral Officer, Kashmere Gate, it was found that
 the said Voter IDs were registered since 13.02.2018 and not on
 13.02.2016. The said complaint was subsequently registered as an FIR
 bearing no. 0015/2018. 11. Pursuant to the FIR, a report was filed by the DM, Jamnagar on
 27.03.2018 and sent to respondent no.1-DOE, which stated that on
 22.03.2018, the SDM along with the Tehsildar and Civil Defence
 volunteers had gone for a visit at Sanjay Camp, Chanankyapuri, New
 Delhi. During the said visit, it recorded the statements of 10 residents
 who deposed that the family of the petitioner never stayed in the
 camp. 12. On 31.03.2018, the order was passed by respondent no.1-DOE,
 whereby, the petitioner‟s admission was cancelled for the first time.
 On the basis of the report of District Magistrate, New Delhi and
 Investigation report of DCP (South), it was concluded that the date of Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV -6- birth certificate of the petitioner was fraudulently obtained as the
 petitioner was born seven months before the date of birth mentioned in
 the certificate submitted at the time of securing admission in
 respondent no.2-School. 13. The said report also suggests that the income certificate was
 obtained by misrepresentation of the actual income by the petitioner‟s
 father, whereby, he declared his total income from all the sources as
 Rs. 67,200/-. On the contrary, the report of the DCP (South) shows
 that the self-declared income as per Income Tax Returns (ITR) of the
 petitioner‟s father for the year 2012-13 himself alone was Rs.
 4,23,850/-. 14. It was also found that the father and the mother of the petitioner
 never resided at the Sanjay Camp, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi, as
 claimed during the time of the admission. On the basis of the enquiry
 report of SDM (Chanakyapuri), on 18.04.2018, the domicile certificate
 as well as the income certificate was declared to be null and void by
 the District Magistrate. 15. The petitioner, thereafter, preferred the first writ petition being
 W.P. (C) No. 6572/2018 against the cancellation of his admission vide
 order dated 31.03.2018, which was allowed on 02.07.2018 because no
 show cause notice was issued to the petitioner before passing the
 cancellation order. Subsequently, respondent no.1-DOE issued a show
 cause notice dated 20.07.2018 with a view to grant personal hearing,
 calling the father of the petitioner to explain as to why the admission
 of the petitioner should not be cancelled. 16. However, on 13.08.2018, respondent no.1-DOE, on the basis of
 status report obtained in the aforementioned FIR, once again cancelled Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV -7- the admission of the petitioner. This order was further assailed in the
 second writ petition filed by the petitioner being W.P. (C) 8791 of
 2018 and the said writ petition was allowed on 07.01.2019, on the
 ground of the violation of principles of natural justice, without
 recording any comment on the merits of the case. 17. A show cause notice was, thereafter, issued on 24.01.2019,
 calling upon the father of the petitioner to explain as to why the
 admission of the petitioner should not be cancelled. In pursuance of
 the same, personal hearings in the form of meetings were arranged by
 respondent no.1-DOE on several occasions to enable the petitioner and
 his father to present their case. 18. The respondent no.1-DOE, after duly considering the
 submissions made by the petitioner‟s father in the aforesaid personal
 hearings, passed a detailed order on 09.02.2021, cancelling the
 admission of the petitioner. This order was communicated to the
 petitioner by respondent no.2-School vide letter dated 15.02.2021. 19. The petitioner, therefore, has filed the instant writ petition
 against the show cause notice dated 24.01.2019 and the resultant order
 dated 09.02.2021, both passed by respondent no.1-DOE, whereby, the
 admission of the petitioner has been cancelled by respondent no.2-
 School. The petitioner vide the instant petition is also challenging the
 letter issued by respondent no.2-School on 15.02.2021, wherein, in
 pursuance of the order passed by respondent no.1-DOE, the admission
 of the petitioner stands cancelled with effect from 31.03.2021. SUBMISSIONS 20. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits
 that the impugned order is passed in blatant violation of principles of Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV -8- natural justice as neither the petitioner nor his father were afforded an
 opportunity of effective hearing. He submits that the said order suffers
 from procedural impropriety inasmuch as the order of cancellation of
 the admission of the petitioner was passed by an authority which did
 not conduct the personal hearing. According to him, any authority
 which was not present at the time of hearing cannot pass an order
 without actually hearing the matter afresh. 21. He submits that the cancellation order in the present case would
 have been sustainable in the eyes of law, only if the successor officer
 had conducted a fresh proceeding in the matter. Learned counsel has
 placed reliance on the decision passed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court
 in the cases of Automotive Tyre Manufacturers Association v.
 Designated Authority and Others1and Union of India v. Shiv Raj2, to
 submit that the said order is vitiated as it flagrantly violates the
 principles of natural justice. 22. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that neither there was
 any just cause nor respondent no.1-DOE has the requisite jurisdiction
 to pass the impugned order. It is the case of the petitioner that under Section 3 of the Delhi School Education Act, 1973, Rule 26 of the
 Delhi Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules,
 2011 read with Clause 10 of the Notification No.
 15(172)/DE/Act/2010/69 dated 07.01.2011, there is no power
 bestowed upon respondent no.1-DOE to act upon the application of
 the petitioner and conduct an investigation of the nature in the
 impugned order. 23. He further tries to impress upon the fact that the income
 certificate of the petitioner‟s father was duly issued by the concerned
 authority after the necessary verification was carried out by the bailiffs
 and therefore, there is no reason to assail the veracity of the same. He
 contends that once the genuineness of the said certificate has been
 corroborated by various Government offices, it is erroneous to cancel
 the admission of the petitioner on the ground of falsity of the said
 document. 24. Learned counsel further submits that, if the said allegation on
 the cancellation of the income certificate is based on the letter dated
 18.04.2018 of the District Magistrate, New Delhi District, the said
 letter is flawed as it itself derives its conclusion from, inter alia the
 statement of the erstwhile SDM that the said certificate was issued
 only after due verification of the available documents. 25. It is also contended by the learned counsel that the falsity of the
 said income certificate cannot be established on the ground that the
 petitioner‟s father undertook various travels outside India in the year
 2012-13. According to him, all the alleged abroad trips were done in
 official capacity as a part of his employment and the expenses
 incurred during the concerned trips were borne by his employer. 26. Learned counsel further submits that the ITR was filed upto
 31.03.2013, whereas, the income certificate was issued on 08.01.2013,
 which implies that the additional income of 3 months could not be
 taken into account by the concerned authority while issuing the
 income certificate. Since the petitioner‟s father did not earn any
 taxable income for the financial years 2010-11 and 2011-12, he did
 not file any ITR during the same period. It is, therefore, Signature Signature Not Verified submitted by
 Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 10 - the learned counsel for the petitioner that in the absence of any
 evidence to the contrary, it must be presumed that the income
 certificate was genuine and does not suffer from any illegality. 27. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, while
 referring to the domicile certificate of the petitioner, submits that the
 veracity of the said certificate cannot be repudiated on the basis of
 testimony of randomly chosen handful of people, when it was issued
 by a competent authority. According to him, the precedence must be
 given to the issuing public authority as against arbitrarily selected 10
 persons. He further submits that, despite repeated requests were made
 to the concerned authority, no opportunity was afforded to the
 petitioner to cross-examine the said persons and thus, in the absence of
 any such reasonable opportunity, the genuineness of the domicile
 certificate cannot be assailed. 28. He also submits that a reasonable opportunity of hearing should
 have been allowed to the petitioner before cancelling his birth
 certificate. According to him, had the petitioner been called upon by
 the concerned authorities to present his explanation, he would have
 controverted the contents of the said birth certificate. It is, therefore,
 submitted by the learned counsel that the petitioner‟s admission was
 sought on legitimate grounds and there is no cogent reason for the
 respondents to cancel the same on the alleged commission of fraud. 29. Per contra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
 respondents vehemently oppose the submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the petitioner. Learned counsel for respondent no.1-DOE,
 while relying on his counter affidavit, submits that the instant writ
 petition is based on false, fabricated and concocted statements Signature Not Verified and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 11 - documents. According to him, due to the illegal and fraudulent act on
 the part of the petitioner‟s father, respondent no.1-DOE was
 constrained to direct respondent no.2-School to declare that the
 admission of the petitioner was obtained by misrepresentation and is
 illegal and void ab initio. 30. He submits that the father of the petitioner has made a false and
 fraudulent self-declaration claiming his income to be Rs. 67,200/- per
 annum from all sources with an aim of obtaining the income
 certificate from the Revenue Department, whereas, his actual income
 for the said year is much higher than the said amount. He contends
 that the income certificate as well as the domicile certificate was
 obtained fraudulently through misrepresentation of facts and therefore,
 both the documents came to be cancelled vide orders dated 18.04.2018
 and 07.05.2018 by the competent authorities. 31. Learned counsel for respondent no.1-DOE then takes this court
 through the affidavit dated 27.04.2023, filed on behalf of District
 Magistrate, New Delhi, to indicate that the income as well as the
 domicile certificate were duly cancelled by the competent authorities
 and based upon the same, the decision of cancellation of the
 petitioner‟s admission was taken by respondent no.1-DOE. The
 relevant paragraphs of the said affidavit read as under: 10. It is submitted that after receiving of report from the relevant
 branches regarding not finding/traceable of application and relevant Signature Not Verified documents of Domicile and Income Certificates and on theSignature basis ofNot Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 12 - spot visit verification report conducted by MS.AnkitaAnand,IAS,SDM
 (ChanakyaPuri]. On 07.05.2018 Sh. AshishShokeen, Executive
 Magistrate has cancelled the Domicile and Income Certificates of
 Mr.Gaurav. The copy of order dated 07.05.2018 is hereby Annexure
 as "H". 11. It is submitted that the application and relevant documents filed by
 the petitioner for issuing the Domicile and Income Certificate could
 not be found/ Traceable after taking all the necessary steps." 32. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent no.2-School
 states that the petitioner had fraudulently secured the admission under
 EWS category through false disclosure of the income by his father and
 thus, the admission of the petitioner has been rightfully cancelled from
 the School. He submits that since the income certificate of the
 petitioner‟s father, for the years spent by the petitioner in the school,
 does not correspond to the adequate eligibility for availing the benefits
 of EWS category, the admission of the petitioner is liable to be
 cancelled on this sole ground only. 33. He further contends that the petitioner has fraudulently received
 the education at the expense of a deserving candidate and has time and
 again agitated procedural grounds with an objective of prolonging the
 matter. According to him, by virtue of accepting the income
 mentioned in the impugned order dated 09.02.2021 as correct, the
 fraud has already been admitted by the petitioner vide order dated
 13.09.2022 passed by this court. It is, therefore, submitted by the
 learned counsel that the impugned order must be upheld to prevent the
 evasion of fraud and misuse of the judicial process. 34. Learned counsel for respondent no.2-School further submits
 that the impugned order does not suffer from any factual or legal
 infirmity as the income of the petitioner‟s father alone, as per the
 relevant ITRs handed over across the board on 13.09.2022, was well Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 13 - above the threshold amount of Rs.1,00,000/- from all sources,
 rendering the petitioner ineligible for admission in EWS category. He
 states that since the petitioner has candidly accepted the actual income
 in the aforesaid order, the facts and situation in the instant case are
 distinguishable from the facts of the previous writ petitions filed by
 the petitioner, where the wrongdoing on the part of the petitioner was
 never admitted. It is, thus, contended by respondents that they had the
 requisite and cogent material which reckoned that the petitioner forged
 the quintessential documents and engaged in egregious fraud to secure
 the admission in respondent no.2-School. 35. Learned counsel has placed reliance on the decision of the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the cases of Mohd. Sartaj & Ors. v. State
 of U.P & Ors.3 and State of U.P. v. Sudhir Kumar Singh & Ors.4 , to
 submit that when the facts are admitted or undisputed then, the court
 may not issue its writ to compel the observance of natural justice when
 it is futile and the said principle may only be applicable where the real
 prejudice is caused to the parties. It is, therefore, the case of the
 respondents that since the primary contention of the controversy at
 hand, i.e., the actual income of the petitioner‟s father, is squarely
 admitted by the petitioner, there is no question of prejudice involved
 in the case which would warrant the petitioner to invoke the principles
 of natural justice to mitigate his grievance. 36. He further submits that even if it is presumed that the principles
 of natural justice are applicable in the facts and circumstances of the
 present case, the series of personal hearings granted to the father of the
 petitioner to present his case before passing of the impugned order 3 (2006) 2 SCC 315 4 Signature Not Verified 2020 SCC OnLine 847 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 14 - would show that the petitioner has not been deprived of any effective
 hearing. With regard to the question of the competent authority to pass
 the impugned order, he submits that the Government departments
 undergo departmental rotation very commonly and if the hearing had
 to be restarted each time the shuffling of officers takes place, no
 decision would be arrived at. 37. Learned counsel, while contending that no prejudice is caused
 by the issuance of the order by a different officer from the one who
 held the initial meetings, has placed reliance on the decision of the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Ossein and Gelatine
 Manufacturers' Association of India v. Modi Alkalies and
 Chemicals Ltd. & Anr.5 and a decision passed by this court in W.P.
 3642 of 2020 titled as Rhonpal Biotech Pvt. Ltd. v. New Delhi
 Municipal Council & Ors. to buttress his submissions. 38. Learned counsel for respondent no.2-School, while referring to
 Para C (ii) of the impugned order passed by respondent no.1-DOE,
 indicates that when the verification of the documents was conducted,
 it was confirmed that the petitioner‟s father had two PAN cards. Since
 the ITRs only pertain to one PAN card, in all probability, the actual
 income would not have been ascertained. As per respondents, it is
 highly implausible and far-fetched to assume that the income of the
 petitioner‟s father had increased six times in the period of around three
 months, i.e., in the interregnum period when the income certificate
 was issued and the ITR was filed. 39. He further submits that the order dated 18.04.2018, issued by
 the District Magistrate, New Delhi District to the DCP, New Delhi 5 Signature Not Verified (1989) 4 SCC 264 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 15 - District, declared the income certificate as null and void. The said
 order also states that the admission of the petitioner was based on
 gross misrepresentation of material facts. It is contended by the
 respondents that since the said order was never challenged by the
 petitioner, it has attained finality and it only bolsters the well-reasoned
 order passed by respondent no.1-DOE. He also submits that the
 plethora of certificates relied upon by the petitioner only attest the
 genuineness of the income certificate and since the income certificate
 itself is found to have been obtained fraudulently, none of the said
 certificates would advance the case of the petitioner. 40. According to him, the order of annulment of the domicile
 certificate has also not been challenged by the petitioner till date and
 in any case, the central dispute in the present case is the income
 certificate which has been illicitly used to obtain admission and
 therefore, all other documents are ancillary to the same. 41. I have heard the submissions made by learned counsel
 appearing on behalf of the parties and perused the record. ISSUES 42. The questions which fall for consideration are delineated
 forthwith as: 43. Before adverting to the above-framed issues for adjudication of
 the instant case, it is significant to trace the brief journey which led to
 the passage of 2011 Order. In the year 1993, the decision of the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Unnikrishnan JP v. State of
 Andhra Pradesh & Ors.6, recognized the Right to Education as a
 fundamental right flowing from Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 44. However, it was the 86th Constitutional Amendment brought in
 the year 2002, which led to the insertion of Article 21-A in the
 Constitution of India and paved the way for recognition of Right to
 Education as a fundamental right for the children between the age of 6
 to 14 years. Pursuant to the said amendment, Right of Children to Free
 and Compulsory Education Act (hereinafter as „ RTE Act ‟) was passed
 in 2009, which came into effect on 1st April, 2010. 45. The RTE Act was enacted to realize the goal of free and
 compulsory education to all children of the age of six to fourteen years
 envisaged under Article 21-A of the Constitution of India. The
 Statement of Objects and Reasons of the RTE Bill, 2008 reads as
 under: 4. The proposed legislation is anchored in the belief that the values of
 equality, social justice and democracy and the creation of a just and
 humane society can be achieved only through provision of inclusive
 elementary education to all. Provision of free and compulsory
 education of satisfactory quality to children from disadvantaged and
 weaker sections is, therefore, not merely the responsibility of schools
 run or supported by the appropriate Governments, but also of schools
 which are not dependent on Government funds. 5. It is, therefore, expedient and necessary to enact a suitable
 legislation as envisaged in article 21-A of the Constitution. 6. The Bill seeks to achieve this objective." 46. Section 2(n) of the RTE Act defines „school‟ as: 47. Section 12 of the RTE Act deals with the extent of school‟s
 responsibility for free and compulsory education including reservation
 of twenty-five percent seats for economically disadvantaged class,
 which reads as under: 48. The legislative wisdom expressed in the RTE Act finds its
 source in the constitutional promise of equal opportunity for one and
 all. An expansive definition of "school" coupled with an unconditional
 promise of free and compulsory education indicate the pragmatic
 approach of the legislature. The RTE Act aims to create an equalizing
 effect so far as access to education is concerned, unaffected by the
 differences or barriers born out of economic weakness. 49. Further, Section 38 of the RTE Act equips the appropriate
 government to make rules for carrying out the provisions of the RTE
 Act . The Government of NCT of Delhi, which is the appropriate
 government in the present case, passed the 2011 Order to implement
 the provisions of the RTE Act . 50. The main thrust of the petitioner in the instant case is that he has
 not been afforded a requisite opportunity of fair hearing by the
 respondents and thus, in view of the miscarriage of natural justice, the
 impugned order dated 09.02.2021 is non-est in the eyes of law as the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 20 - hearing was merely an empty formality. According to him, a sufficient
 opportunity was never provided to him to effectively present his case
 and the hearings in which he was called upon, were ostensibly
 artificial attempts in the teeth of due process of law. However, before
 moving towards examining the aforesaid contention, it is pertinent to
 delve into the intricate factual matrix of the case to determine the
 existence of mala fide on the part of the petitioner and whether
 invocation of the equitable jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India is warranted. Issue I 51. It has been argued by learned counsel for the respondents that
 the petitioner had obtained the admission in a clandestine manner
 through submission of fake documents including the income
 certificate, the genuineness of which is of paramount importance in
 securing the admission under EWS category. The impugned order
 dated 09.02.2021 passed by respondent no.1-DOE, which according to
 the respondents establish a clear case of an egregious fraud on the part
 of the petitioner‟s father, is culled out as follows: 52. The Constitution of India prescribes special measures for
 various categories of persons. Originally, we recognized reservations
 for socially and educationally backward classes of the society.
 However, after the promulgation of 103rd amendment, the Constitution
 created space for reservation on purely economic basis. The core of
 EWS reservation policy lies in the quantum of income. Therefore,
 there could be no denying of the fact that besides all other documents,
 if the income certificate submitted by the petitioner‟s father at the time
 of admission is itself not acceptable as per law, the necessary sequitur
 is the cancellation of the concerned child‟s admission. The said
 income certificate of the father of the petitioner dated 08.01.2013
 reads as under: 53. The contents of the income certificate exhibit that the income of
 father of the petitioner was assessed to be Rs. 67,200/- per annum at
 the time of admission. 54. However, it is seen that the petitioner‟s father has himself
 admitted before this court that his income for the said year and
 subsequent year was exceedingly above the threshold required for
 seeking admission in EWS category. The order of this court dated
 13.09.2022, whereby the petitioner‟s father has admittedly accepted
 his income to be well above the threshold income required for
 admission in the EWS category, reads as under: 55. It is apposite to extract the relevant portion of paragraph no.22
 of the impugned order dated 09.02.2021, which reads as under: B. During admission of his first child in EWS category, Sh. Gaurav
 Goyal submitted an Income Certificate dated 08.01.2013 issued by the
 Tehsildar, Chanakya Puri, New Delhi claiming to be a EWS category
 applicant with a total annual income only Rs. 67,200/- from all
 sources. Whereas, in the Income Tax Return filed by Sh. Gaurav
 Goyal (PAN No. AOTPG9631E) for the Assessment Year 2013-14
 (Financial Year 2012-13) Sh. Gaurav Goyal has declared his total
 income as Rs. 4,23,850/- out of which he has paid income tax of Rs.
 28,530/- and got refund of Rs. 1,890/-. This indicates that he had
 obtained the Income Certificate based on false declaration and in a
 fraudulent manner. Further, from the Income Tax record, it has come
 out that Sh. Gaurav Goyal has filed following Income Tax Returns: 56. The factual matrix of the present case suggests that the income
 certificate, as submitted by the petitioner‟s father and which was sine
 qua non for securing admission in the desired category of petitioner,
 was cancelled by an order of the competent authority. It is also a fait
 accompli that the cancellation of the said certificate remains
 unchallenged till date and thus, it has attained finality. In the case of Central Bank of India v. Madhulika Guruprasad Dahir7 , where an
 employee was appointed on the basis of false caste certificate, which
 was later cancelled by the Scrutiny Committee, the court was of the 7 Signature Not Verified (2008) 13 SCC 170 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 24 - opinion that since the said order was not challenged in the writ
 petition, it had attained finality. The relevant paragraph reads as under: 57. Therefore, the only legitimate document which could have been
 the basis for obtaining the income certificate as well, is the ITR filed
 by the petitioner‟s father. If the declared income of the petitioner‟s
 father is perused from the aforementioned table, which stands
 admitted on the judicial record, it becomes certain that the actual
 income was exceptionally above the threshold as per Clause 2(c) of
 the 2011 Order. 58. As per the mandate of the proviso to Clause 6 of the 2011
 Order, a child belonging to a weaker section shall submit a self-
 declaration of annual income on affidavit every year for continuation
 of free seat in the school once admitted against free seat. A bare
 perusal of the aforementioned table indicates that the income of the
 petitioner‟s father alone, for the subsequent years, was consistently
 above the required threshold and thus, the petitioner was disentitled
 from claiming any right on the seats reserved for the EWS category.
 Also, the stand taken by the petitioner‟s father that the skyrocketing
 increase in his income had occurred during the interregnum period of
 the issuance of the income certificate and the filing of the ITR (a three
 months‟ period at best), is prima facie an eyewash which seems
 distant from reality. 59. In light of the aforementioned facts and the judicial admission
 made by the petitioner‟s father, it is discernible that the petitioner had
 obtained admission on the basis of misrepresentation of his father‟s
 income which is much higher than the requisite income for claiming
 the benefits of the EWS reservation. The efforts employed by the
 petitioner reek of various circumventions to fraudulently gain a seat in
 respondent no.2-School and therefore, the wrongdoings on the part of
 the petitioner‟s father are clearly established in the instant case. It is
 also seen that an FIR is already pending against the petitioner‟s father
 and hence, the law would take its own course in fact finding and
 adjudicating such aspects for enforcing legal implications. 60. Furthermore, the facts of the present case are clearly
 distinguishable from the factual situation in earlier two petitions
 preferred by the petitioner, which were allowed by this court. In the
 previous cases, neither the show cause notices were appropriately
 served nor any effective hearing could be said to have been granted to
 the petitioner. Also, there was no admission of the said ITRs which
 stand admitted during judicial proceedings in the present case. Thus,
 the present situation is seemingly incomparable with the previous writ
 petitions. 61. It could be safely concluded that though the certificates of
 income, domicile and birth were initially issued by the Government
 authorities, however, they were obtained based on the
 misrepresentation of facts by the petitioner‟s father. The entire case
 revolved around the income of the petitioner‟s father and since, the
 factum of income itself was premised on a false factual foundation, the
 fraudulent act with respect to domicile and birth certificate does not Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 26 - require any deliberation. In fact, a bare glance at the table pertaining to
 ITRs submitted by father of the petitioner would indicate a concerted
 and pre-planned effort to gain admission for the petitioner. He appears
 to have astutely planned to evade filing of ITRs for the preceding
 years i.e., financial year 2010-11 and 2011-12 to avoid any hindrance
 in securing the admission. Thus, the first issue stands answered in the
 affirmative to the effect that the petitioner‟s admission was secured in
 a mala fide manner and by playing a fraud upon the institutions. Issue II 62. The next issue which arises for consideration is whether, in
 view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, this court should invoke
 its equitable jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
 for deciding upon the relief prayed for in the instant petition. 63. The nature and scope of jurisdiction exercisable under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India has been a subject matter of
 discussion in various judicial pronouncements. It is significant to
 advert to a series of judgments to appreciate the scope of extraordinary
 jurisdiction under Article 226. 64. The decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Dwarkanath v. Income-Tax Officer, Special Circle, Kanpur8 succinctly encapsulates the constitutional wisdom behind the
 incorporation of Article 226 of the Constitution of India, which reads
 as under: This article is couched in comprehensive phraseology and it ex facie
 confers a wide power on the High Courts to reach injustice wherever
 it is found. The Constitution designedly used a wide language in
 describing the nature of the power, the purpose for which and the
 person or authority against whom it can be exercised. It can issue
 writs in the nature of prerogative writs as understood in England;
 but the scope of those writs also is widened by the use of the
 expression "nature", for the said expression does not equate the
 writs that can be issued in India with those in England, but only
 draws an analogy from them. That apart, High Courts can also issue
 directions, orders or writs other than the prerogative writs. It
 enables the High Courts to mould the reliefs to meet the peculiar and
 complicated requirements of this country. Any attempt to equate the
 scope of the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution with that of the English Courts to issue prerogative
 writs is to introduce the unnecessary procedural restrictions grown
 over the years in a comparatively small country like England with a
 unitary form of government to a vast country like India functioning
 under a federal structure. Such a construction defeats the purpose of
 the article itself. To say this is not to say that the High Courts can
 function arbitrarily under this Article. Some limitations are implicit
 in the article and others may be evolved to direct the article through
 defined channels. This interpretation has been accepted by this
 Court in Basappa v. Nagappa [(1962) 2 SCR 169] and Irani v. State
 of Madras [(1955) 1 SCR 250]." 65. It is strikingly settled that any party approaching the court of
 law must come with clean hands and refrain from any material
 suppression of facts as it would pollute the sanctity of judicial
 proceedings. In the case of K.D. Sharma v. Steel Authority of India
 Limited9 , the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held as under: issued for doing substantial justice. It is, therefore, of utmost necessity
 that the petitioner approaching the writ court must come with clean
 hands, put forward all the facts before the court without concealing or
 suppressing anything and seek an appropriate relief. If there is no
 candid disclosure of relevant and material facts or the petitioner is
 guilty of misleading the court, his petition may be dismissed at the
 threshold without considering the merits of the claim." 66. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Udyami Evam
 Khadi Gramodyog Welfare Sanstha v. State of Uttar Pradesh10 ,
 reiterated the importance of fairness in an equitable proceeding as
 under: 67. In the case of Manhohar Lal v. Ugrasen11 , the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court, while taking a similar view, held that it is law of
 nature that one should not be enriched by loss or injury to another. The
 relevant paragraph no. 48 of the said decision reads as: (2008) 1 SCC 560 11 Signature Not Verified (2010) 11 SCC 557 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 29 - 68. In the case of Ramniklal N. Bhutta v. State of Maharashtra12 ,
 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court was of the view that while exercising the
 power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the courts shall
 strike a balance between public interest and private interest. The
 paragraph no.10 of the said decision reads as under: 69. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, while extensively discussing upon
 the equitable nature of writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India in the case of V. Chandrasekaran v.
 Administrative Officer13 , has held as under: containing a misleading and/or an inaccurate statement, only to achieve
 an ulterior purpose, amounts to an abuse of process of the court. 46. In Dalip Singh v. State of U.P. [(2010) 2 SCC 114 : (2010) 1 SCC
 (Civ) 324] this Court noticed an altogether new creed of litigants, that is,
 dishonest litigants and went on to strongly deprecate their conduct by
 observing that the truth constitutes an integral part of the justice delivery
 system. The quest for personal gain has become so intense that those
 involved in litigation do not hesitate to seek shelter of falsehood,
 misrepresentation and suppression of facts in the course of court
 proceedings. A litigant who attempts to pollute the stream of justice, or
 who touches the pure fountain of justice with tainted hands, is not entitled
 to any relief, interim or final". 70. The aforementioned judicial pronouncements duly indicate that
 the remedy under Article 226 is plenary in nature and is intended to
 meet injustices prevalent in various forms. It is meant to ensure that
 the constitutional courts, being the protectors of sacred fundamental
 rights, are equipped with sufficient means to achieve their ends.
 However, wide powers must be circumscribed by adequate safeguards,
 and rightly so. It is vividly seen from the aforementioned judicial
 pronouncements that a litigant seeking relief under Article 226 must
 approach the court with clean hands, without suppression of any
 material facts therein. Equity must be sought only with pious
 intentions and any attempt to deviate from the said position must be
 dealt with sternly to prevent any abuse of the process of law. It is
 explicit that no relief can be provided to a party who approaches the
 court in bad faith to take advantage of equitable powers. Afterall, the
 stream of justice must not be polluted under any circumstance. 71. Although the requirement of being fair to the court is equally
 essential at all judicial forums, it assumes a greater importance before
 the constitutional courts. For, in a writ jurisdiction, the High Court
 does not have the benefit of examining or cross-examining the parties
 orally and more often than not, reliance is placed upon the sworn Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 31 - affidavits. In such a scenario, the importance of approaching the court
 with clean hands becomes paramount and any attempt to circumvent
 the said requirement shall amount to a fraud with the constitutional
 remedies. 72. In the present case, the petitioner‟s father has admitted his
 income to be exceedingly above the required threshold for the
 concerned year, only during the course of proceedings in the Court.
 Even otherwise, he was required to maintain the said threshold
 throughout the period of study of the petitioner in EWS category in
 respondent no.2-School. Since his income for the subsequent years is
 also much higher than the requisite income, he ought to have
 immediately moved an application for altering the category of
 petitioner or taken any other appropriate recourse which could have
 established the bonafide of the petitioner or his father. Rather, the
 petitioner continued uninterrupted study for subsequent years, thereby
 depriving a deserving child who could have secured admission in lieu
 of the petitioner. 73. Interestingly, the cancellation of the income and domicile
 certificates by the competent authorities remains unchallenged by the
 petitioner till date. The sole endeavour of the petitioner has been to
 contest the present matter by aggravating the technicalities to the
 status of substantial failure of justice. But, no more. 74. It is, therefore, seen that the petitioner has tried to resort to the
 equitable jurisdiction of this court with tainted hands and therefore,
 the petition is liable to be straightforwardly rejected at this juncture
 only. However, taking into consideration that it is the third round of
 litigation preferred by the petitioner, this court deems it proper to Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 32 - delve into the merits of the case to satisfy its conscience and to meet
 the ends of justice. Issue III 75. The principles of natural justice, with the passage of time and
 dynamism of law, have succinctly converged to meet two primary
 tests ‒ nemo in propria causa judex, esse debet and audi alteram
 partem i.e., the rule against bias and the right of fair hearing,
 respectively. 76. The principles of natural justice are intended to infuse life into
 the promise of equal opportunity in the eyes of law and thus, could be
 said to be tacitly entrenched in the Constitution of India, including the
 Preamble. However, the practical application of these principles is not
 done in a mechanical or absolute manner. In fact, concept of natural
 justice was termed as an unruly horse, possibly to signify the dangers
 associated with mechanical application of the same. However, in the
 case of Enderby Town Football Club Ltd. v. Football Assn. Ltd.14,
 Lord Denning observed that with a good man in the saddle, the unruly
 horse can be kept under control; it can jump over obstacles, it can leap
 fences put up by fictions and come down on the other side of justice. In Jain Exports (P) Ltd. v. Union of India15 , the Hon‟ble Supreme
 Court said that the observance of the natural justice has no relevance
 with the fatness of the stake, but is essentially related to the demands
 of a given situation. The principles, therefore, assume different shape
 and substance in different factual scenarios. 77. One of the earliest pronouncements on this point was delivered
 by Tucker, L.J. in Russel v. Duke of Norfolk16 wherein it was
 observed thus: 78. The above pronouncement was adopted by the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court of India with approval in Suresh Koshy George v.
 University of Kerala17 wherein it held that "the rules of natural justice
 are not embodied rules" and later in State of Kerala v. K.T. Shaduli
 Grocery Dealer18 wherein it held that "the rules of natural justice are
 not a constant: they are not absolute and rigid rules having universal
 application. A subsequent reiteration of the same principle could be
 traced in Karnataka SRTC v. S.G. Kotturappa19 , Hon‟ble Supreme
 Court laid down the position of law as: 79. The judicial pronouncements on the concept of natural justice
 have invariably adopted the view that the principles associated with
 this concept are not meant for a universal application. In ascertaining 16 (1949) 1 All ER 109 17 AIR 1969 SC 198 18 (1977) 2 SCC 777 19 Signature Not Verified (2005) 3 SCC 409 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 34 - the standards of natural justice on a case to case basis, the court must
 be mindful of the nature of decision (legislative, quasi-judicial,
 judicial etc.), the relationship between the parties, enacted rules (if
 any) etc. The ultimate test is of reasonableness, fairness and non-
 arbitrariness in decision making. The words used by the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India20 , to the effect
 that the procedure must be just, fair and reasonable and not fanciful,
 oppressive or arbitrary, still capture the rule of law with precision. 80. In the instant case, since the adherence to the principle of audi
 alteram partem is in question, the contentions raised by the petitioner
 have to be tested on the anvil of the rule of law governing the said
 principle. It is settled jurisprudence that the issuance of notice is the
 foremost step in moving the wheels of natural justice. In the case of Gorkha Security Services v. Govt. (NCT of Delhi )21, the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court laid down the essentials of an adequate notice for
 accomplishing the requirement of principles of natural justice.
 Paragraph no.22 of the said decision reads as under: 1978 AIR 597 21 Signature Not Verified (2014) 9 SCC 105 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 35 - We may hasten to add that even if it is not specifically mentioned in
 the show-cause notice but it can clearly and safely be discerned from
 the reading thereof, that would be sufficient to meet this
 requirement." [Emphasis supplied] 79. In light of the aforementioned position of law, it would be
 appropriate to first ascertain the validity of the show cause notice
 issued to the petitioner. The factual scenario herein indicates that a
 show cause notice was issued on 24.01.2019, calling upon the father
 of the petitioner to explain as to why the admission of the petitioner
 should not be cancelled. The show cause notice dated 24.01.2019
 reads as under: 80. If the contents of the aforesaid notice are perused, it is
 discernible that the action of cancellation of the petitioner‟s admission
 was necessitated on several grounds, inter alia due to the submission
 of fallacious documents by the father of the petitioner at the relevant
 time for securing admission of the petitioner in respondent no.2-
 School. The said notice unequivocally lays down the grounds which
 necessitate the action as well as the proposed penalty i.e., the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 37 - cancellation of the admission of the petitioner. It is, therefore,
 apparent that the said show cause notice does not foreclose the matter,
 rather, it lucidly contains requisite information to satisfy the two-
 pronged approach devised for determination of an adequate notice, as
 envisaged in Gorkha Security (supra) case. 81. Undeniably, the petitioner was granted sufficient time to
 respond to the said notice. In view of the said notice, on 04.02.2019, a
 personal hearing in the form of a meeting was also scheduled by
 respondent no.1-DOE. At the time of hearing, the father of the
 petitioner sought two weeks' time to file the reply, which was granted
 by respondent no.1-DOE. 82. In order to ensure that no person is condemned unheard, the
 next significant limb is conceptualized in the form of right to be
 known about the evidence used against him/her during the course of
 proceedings. It enjoins the administrative authority exercising
 adjudicatory powers, respondent no.1-DOE herein, to reasonably
 disclose the evidence used against the subject during the course of
 proceedings. This principle of fair hearing has been firmly
 conceptualized by the Constitution Bench of the Hon‟ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner
 of Income Tax, West Bengal22 , wherein, in terms of Paragraph no.9, it
 was held as under: [Emphasis supplied] 83. It is to be noted that, on the following date of hearing, i.e.,
 26.02.2019, the father of the petitioner filed the reply and asked for all
 the documents relied upon by respondent no.1-DOE pertaining to the
 show cause notice. During the course of hearing, he was also asked to
 provide a clear list of documents so that the same could be considered
 and 3 days-time, as prayed for, was granted to the father of the
 petitioner for giving the list of documents. Also, further 12 days‟ time
 was provided for filing additional reply, if any. 84. Subsequently, on 02.03.2019, the father of the petitioner made a
 request to provide the details of complete verification that has been
 carried out along with all the supporting documents and reports of the
 competent authority. A list of documents was also attached in this Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 39 - regard. In response to the same, respondent no.1-DOE, vide letter
 dated 11.03.2019, provided the said documents, as requested by him.
 It is, therefore, visibly clear that without jeopardizing the interest of
 the petitioner, the documents relied upon by respondent no.1-DOE
 were duly supplied to the father of the petitioner following the tenets
 of natural justice. 85. The fair-disclosure requirement is deeply embedded in our
 constitutional scheme. The underlying purpose of such disclosure is to
 enable the subject of a proceeding to respond meaningfully to the
 evidence against him/her. In this case, it could be said that the
 petitioner was not deprived of the material in any manner. 86. Now, it is appropriate to advert to the third foundational limb of
 the superstructure of audi alteram partem, which requires that the
 adjudicatory authority must afford a reasonable opportunity to the
 aggrieved party to present its case, either in writing or orally, at the
 discretion of adjudicatory authority in normal course. On this point,
 the settled position of law is clear that oral hearing is not an integral
 part of fair hearing, unless it is required to be conducted for meeting
 the ends of justice in the given circumstances of the case where a
 person is incapable of putting up an effective defence. 87. A Constitution Bench of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in the
 case of Union of India v. Jyoti Prakash Mitter23 , took a view that
 when an opportunity has been provided to a person to present his case
 in writing, there is no violation of principles of natural justice if an
 oral hearing is not given. Paragraph no.26 of the said decision is culled
 out as follows: "26. Article 217(3) does not guarantee a right of personal hearing. In
 a proceeding of a judicial nature, the basic rules of natural justice
 must be followed. The respondent was on that account entitled to
 make a representation. But it is not necessarily an incident of the
 Rules of natural justice that personal hearing must be given to a party
 likely to be affected by the order. Except in proceedings in Courts, a
 mere denial of opportunity of making an oral representation will
 not, without more, vitiate the proceeding. A party likely to be
 affected by a decision is entitled to know the evidence against him,
 and to have an opportunity of making a representation. He however
 cannot claim that an order made without affording him an
 opportunity of a personal hearing is invalid.The President is
 performing a judicial function when he determines a dispute as to the
 age of a Judge, but he is not constituted by the Constitution or a court.
 Whether in a given case the President should give a personal hearing
 is for him to decide. The question is left to the discretion of the
 President to decide whether an oral hearing should be given to the
 Judge concerned. The record amply supports the view that the
 President did not deem it necessary to give an oral hearing. There
 were no complicated questions to be decided by the President. On the
 one hand there was the evidence of the matriculation certificate and
 the representation made by the respondent before the Board of
 Commissioners in the United Kingdom when the respondent submitted
 himself for being admitted to the Indian Civil Service Examination.
 On the other hand there was the evidence of the assertion made by the
 respondent that he was born on December 27, 1904, which was
 sought to be supported by the almanac with an entry in the margin, a
 horoscope, an affidavit of Panchkari Banerjee, Secretary to the then
 Chief Justice Sir Arthur Trevor Harries, in which it was stated that the
 question about the age of the respondent was discussed with the Chief
 Justice. The truth of the statements made by the respondent had to be
 judged in the light of his conduct, that he gave no evidence of the date
 of his birth when he was appointed permanent Judge of the High
 Court, nor when in 1960 opportunity was given to him to furnish any
 material in support of his contention regarding his age. If upon this
 evidence the President was of the view that the disputed question may
 be decided without giving an opportunity of personal hearing, this
 Court cannot set aside the order on the ground that the order was
 made without following the Rules of natural justice." [Emphasis supplied] 88. Be that as it may, the facts of the present case exhibit that an
 opportunity of hearing, both in oral as well as in writing, was provided
 to the father of the petitioner. On the following date of hearing which
 was scheduled on 25.03.2019, he was asked to conclude all his Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 41 - submissions within a period of one week. Thereafter, an interim reply
 dated 25.03.2019 was filed by him, which stated that firstly, the show
 cause notice was in the nature of determination of guilt, secondly,
 present proceedings were illegal and non-est in the eyes of law as the
 office of the Director of respondent no.1-DOE, who was hearing the
 case, lacked jurisdiction and lastly, disputed questions of facts were
 involved which required trial. 89. Therefore, the submission made by the learned counsel for the
 petitioner that the petitioner‟s father was not provided an effective
 hearing does not hold any water in the facts and circumstances of the
 case at hand. Contrarily, it is evident that a requisite opportunity to
 effectively present his case before the adjudicatory administrative
 authority was granted to him, in tandem with the letter and spirit of
 law governing the principles of natural justice. The outcome of the
 hearings may not be desirable for the petitioner, however, that does
 not imply that he was restrained from presenting his case at all. 90. It is discernible from Annexure-P22 and Annexure-P24 that the
 father of the petitioner also counter-signed the minutes of the meeting
 and thereafter, respondent no.1-DOE, after duly considering the
 submissions, passed a detailed order on 09.02.2021, cancelling the
 admission of the petitioner. This order was aptly communicated to the
 petitioner by respondent no.2-School vide letter dated 15.02.2021.
 Therefore, it cannot be said that the impugned order has caused any
 real prejudice to the petitioner on the ground of non-effective hearing
 provided by respondent no.1-DOE. In fact, the said impugned order
 does not seem to suffer from any legal infirmity as it was passed after
 due consideration of the principles of natural justice and the ancillary Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 42 - facets of legal jurisprudence involved therein, with full force and
 rigour. 91. Before proceeding to the next facet of natural justice, it is
 apposite to note that in a judicial review of administrative action on
 the ground of natural justice, the courts essentially review the
 procedure adopted for arriving at a decision and not the decision itself.
 The petitioner may not have found the outcome of cancellation of
 admission as a desirable one, however, the court cannot hold it
 unconstitutional on the sole premise of undesirability, as long as the
 outcome was a result of a fair and reasonable procedure which
 provided sufficient opportunity to the petitioner to participate in the
 process. It may be noted that in a participatory constitutional
 democracy, it is indeed essential that decisions are not passed at the
 back of any person. Put otherwise, the person who is affected by a
 decision must be given sufficient opportunity to participate in the
 process leading to the decision. This concept emerges from the larger
 concept of procedural due process and the same is duly recognized in
 our democracy. 92. The fourth and the last significant limb which is a direct
 corollary of the principles of natural justice is the opportunity of cross-
 examination which plays a pivotal role in eliciting the truth. It was
 considered to be an ingredient of fair hearing in the decision of the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of State of J&K v. Bakshi Gulam
 Mohammad24 , wherein, the denial of the opportunity to cross-examine
 the witnesses was challenged. However, it was disallowed on the
 ground that evidence of witnesses was in the form of affidavits and the
 copies had been made available to the parties. 93. In the case of K.L. Tripathi v. State Bank of India25 , which has
 been relied upon in the case of Sudhir Kumar (supra), the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court was of the opinion that in case, no real prejudice is
 caused to the party, absence of any formal opportunity of cross-
 examination will not in itself vitiate the decision arrived at fairly. The
 relevant paragraph no.32 of K.L. Tripathi (supra) reads as under: 94. The courts, in normal course, do not insist on cross-examination
 in administrative adjudication unless the circumstances require the
 same to put up an effective defense. So far as the argument raised by
 the petitioner that he must have been provided an opportunity to cross
 examine the 10 random persons who deposed against him is
 concerned, it is abundantly clear that the adjudicatory authority i.e.,
 respondent no.1-DOE, has relied on the order passed by the SDM,
 which has rather ultimately relied upon the depositions of the said
 persons. Therefore, a more plausible view in the given set of facts
 would be that if any challenge lies to the said deposition, the same has
 to be raised against the order of the appropriate authority i.e., SDM in
 the present case and not respondent no.1-DOE. 95. Even otherwise, the said demand for cross examination is with
 respect to the nullity of domicile certificate which is, unlike the
 income certificate, not the substantial bone of contention which could
 materially affect the outcome of the present petition. In such
 circumstances, it would be safe to observe that such opportunity
 would be an exercise in futility as it holds no bearing on the ultimate
 decision of cancellation of admission. 96. The second leg of the argument pertaining to natural justice,
 advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioner, seeks to emphasize
 upon the fact that the impugned order is not sustainable as per law,
 since it has been passed by an officer who was not present at the time
 when hearing was conducted. It is his case that in the absence of a
 competent authority to decide upon the matter, the impugned order
 must not hold any relevance. 97. However, in the case of Kalinga Mining Corpn. v. Union of
 India26 , the Hon‟ble Supreme Court while dealing with the scope of
 judicial review of the administrative actions vis-à-vis the principles of
 natural justice, held that an order cannot be said to be vitiated if it has
 been passed by an officer who has not conducted the hearing. The
 relevant paragraphs of the said decision are reproduced hereunder: basis of the material available that the Court would be justified to
 interfere with the decision. The scope of judicial review is limited to
 the decision-making process and not to the decision itself, even if the
 same appears to be erroneous. 63. This Court in Tata Cellular v. Union of India [(1994) 6 SCC 651]
 upon detailed consideration of the parameters within which judicial
 review could be exercised, has culled out the following principles: Its concern should be: Therefore, it is not for the court to determine whether a particular
 policy or particular decision taken in the fulfilment of that policy is
 fair. It is only concerned with the manner in which those decisions
 have been taken. The extent of the duty to act fairly will vary from
 case to case. Shortly put, the grounds upon which an administrative
 action is subject to control by judicial review can be classified as
 under: The aforesaid judgment has been followed again and again. It was
 clearly observed in the said judgment that where the Court comes to
 the conclusion that the administrative decision is arbitrary, it must
 interfere. However, the Court cannot function as an appellate
 authority substituting the judgment for that of the administrator. 70. We also do not find much substance in the submission made by
 Mr. Krishnan that the Order dated 27-9-2001 is vitiated as it has
 been passed by an officer who did not give a hearing to the parties.
 This is clearly a case of an institutional hearing. The direction has
 been issued by the High Court for a hearing to be given by the
 Central Government. There was no direction that any particular
 officer or an authority was to give a hearing. In such circumstances,
 the orders are generally passed in the relevant files and may often be
 communicated by an officer other than the officer who gave the
 hearing." [Emphasis supplied] 98. On this aspect, the learned counsel for respondent no.2-School
 has also referred to the decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the
 case of Ossein and Gelatine (supra), wherein in terms of Paragraph
 no.5 and 6, it was held as under: [Emphasis supplied] 99. He has also placed reliance on a decision of the Coordinate
 Bench of this court in Rhonpal Biotech (supra) case, wherein it was
 argued by the petitioner that since the order was not passed by the
 same officer who has granted hearing, the said order was vitiated. This
 court in terms of paragraph no.42 held as under: "42. As far as the submission of the learned counsel for the
 petitioner that the order is vitiated as hearing was granted by one
 officer and the order passed by another, I again find no merit in the
 same. In the present case, the oral hearing was followed by a
 detailed written representation of the petitioner.The office file of the
 respondents shows that the said reply was considered threadbare by
 the respondents. Principles of natural justice cannot be put in a
 straight jacket and where no prejudice is shown to have been caused
 by the failure of the authority to strictly comply with some facet of
 natural justice, the order passed cannot be upset only on ground of
 such failure. The Supreme Court in Kalinga Mining Corporation Vs.
 Union of India (UOI) and Ors. , ( 2013) 1 SCR 814, and Ossein and
 Gelatine Manufacturers Association of India Vs. Modi Alkalies and
 Chemicals Limited and Ors. , AIR 1990 SC 1744, has held that where
 the officer who passed the order has taken full note of the
 submissions/objections of the party concerned and no prejudice is
 shown to have been caused by the order being passed by an officer
 different from the one who granted oral hearing, the requirements of
 principles of natural justice would be considered to have been duly
 met." [Emphasis supplied] 100. It can, thus, be palpably observed that the streams of judicial
 pronouncements on the aspect whether an order must be mandatorily
 passed by the officer who has actually heard the proceedings, hold it
 to be an inapt view in upholding the canons of natural justice.
 Therefore, there is no merit in the argument of the petitioner that the
 impugned order is liable to be set aside on such technical grounds. It is
 trite that the rules of procedure are only handmaidens of justice and
 not the mistress of justice. In the same breath, it is also important to
 note that administrative exigencies are always at play and transfers are
 an indispensable part of the same. Merely because the concerned
 officer was transferred, it did not displace the relevant material which
 was placed before the officer and it is not even in question that the
 decision was passed on the strength of relevant material. 101. At this juncture, it is also pertinent to refer to the decision of the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Sudhir Kumar (supra),
 wherein, the court has held that in case of admitted or undisputed Signature Not Verified facts Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 49 - where only one conclusion is possible, issuing a writ for observance of
 natural justice would be futile. Paragraph no.28 of the said decision reads as under: observance of principle of natural justice itself causes prejudice or the
 same should not be read "as it causes difficulty of prejudice", cannot
 be said to be applicable in the instant case. The principles of natural
 justice, as noticed hereinbefore, have undergone a sea change. In view
 of the decisions of this Court in State Bank of Patiala v. S.K.
 Sharma [(1996) 3 SCC 364] and Rajendra Singh v. State of
 M.P. [(1996) 5 SCC 460] the principle of law is that some real
 prejudice must have been caused to the complainant. The Court has
 shifted from its earlier concept that even a small violation shall
 result in the order being rendered a nullity. To the principle/doctrine
 of audi alteram partem, a clear distinction has been laid down
 between the cases where there was no hearing at all and the cases
 where there was mere technical infringement of the principle. The
 Court applies the principles of natural justice having regard to the
 fact situation obtaining in each case. It is not applied in a vacuum
 without reference to the relevant facts and circumstances of the case.
 It is no unruly horse. It cannot be put in a straitjacket formula." [Emphasis supplied] 102. Further, in the case of Mohd. Sartaj (supra), the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court in terms of paragraph nos.17 & 18 has observed as
 under: Article 226 of the Constitution. For example, where no prejudice is
 caused to the person concerned, interference under Article 226 is
 not necessary. 18. In Aligarh Muslim University v. Mansoor Ali Khan [(2000) 7 SCC
 529 : 2000 SCC (L&S) 965 : AIR 2000 SC 2783] this Court
 considered the question whether on the facts of the case the employee
 can invoke the principle of natural justice and whether it is a case
 where, even if notice has been given, result would not have been
 different and whether it could be said that no prejudice was caused to
 him, if on the admitted or proved facts grant of an opportunity would
 not have made any difference. The Court referred to the decisions
 rendered in M.C. Mehta v. Union of India [(1999) 6 SCC 237] , the
 exceptions laid down in S.L. Kapoor case [( 1980) 4 SCC 379]
 and K.L. Tripathi v. State Bank of India [(1984) 1 SCC 43 : 1984 SCC
 (L&S) 62 : AIR 1984 SC 273] where it has been laid down that not
 mere violation of natural justice but de facto prejudice (other than
 non-issue of notice) has to be proved. The Court has also placed
 reliance in the matter of State Bank of Patiala v. S.K. Sharma [(1996)
 3 SCC 364 : 1996 SCC (L&S) 717] and Rajendra Singh v. State of
 M.P. [(1996) 5 SCC 460] where the principle has been laid down that
 there must have been some real prejudice to the complainant. There is
 no such thing as merely technical infringement of natural justice. The
 Court has approved this principle and examined the case of the
 employee in that light. In Viveka Nand Sethi v. Chairman, J&K Bank
 Ltd. [(2005) 5 SCC 337 : 2005 SCC (L&S) 689] this Court has held
 that the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with
 having regard to the fact situation obtaining therein. It cannot be
 put in a straitjacket formula. It cannot be applied in a vacuum
 without reference to the relevant facts and circumstances of the
 case. The principle of natural justice, it is trite, is no unruly horse.
 When facts are admitted, an enquiry would be an empty formality.
 Even the principle of estoppel will apply. In another recent judgment
 in State of U.P. v. Neeraj Awasthi [(2006) 1 SCC 667 : JT (2006) 1 SC
 19] while considering the argument that the principle of natural
 justice had been ignored before terminating the service of the
 employees and, therefore, the order terminating the service of the
 employees was bad in law, this Court has considered the principles of
 natural justice and the extent and the circumstances in which they are
 attracted. This Court has found in Neeraj Awasthi case [(2006) 1 SCC
 667 : JT (2006) 1 SC 19] that if the services of the workmen are
 governed by the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act , they are protected
 under that law. Rules 42 and 43 of the U.P. Industrial Disputes Rules
 lay down that before effecting any retrenchment the employees
 concerned would be entitled to notice of one month or in lieu thereof
 pay for one month and 15 days' wages for each completed year of
 service by way of compensation. If retrenchment is to be effected
 under the Industrial Disputes Act , the question of complying with the
 principles of natural justice would not arise. The principles of natural
 justice would be attracted only when the services of some persons are Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 51 - terminated by way of a punitive measure or thereby a stigma is
 attached. Applying this principle, it could very well be seen that
 discontinuation of the service of the appellants in the present case was
 not as a punitive measure but they were discontinued for the reason
 that they were not qualified and did not possess the requisite
 qualifications for appointment. [Emphasis supplied] 103. In any case, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Kalinga
 Mining (supra), has forthrightly held that this court does not exercise
 the powers of an appellate court in exercise of its powers of judicial
 review. Any interference would be called for, only in cases where the
 findings of the administrative authority are either perverse or lack
 requisite evidence. At the cost of repetition, it must be noted that the
 scope of judicial review is limited to the decision-making process and
 not to the decision itself, even if the same appears to be undesirable. In
 the instant case, the petitioner has failed to show any cogent reason
 which would indicate that either the due procedure, as required by
 law, was not followed in the process of orchestrating a fair hearing to
 enable the petitioner or his father to present their case or any real
 prejudice has been caused to the petitioner. 104. Conclusively, it is the impetuous malfeasance of the father of
 the petitioner, yearning for the admission of his son dehors the
 applicable regulations, which has led to tribulation for the petitioner
 and caused a debacle of the noble motives which the EWS reservation
 seeks to achieve. 105. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, while upholding the validity of 25
 percent reservation for economically poor in the private unaided Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 52 - schools, in the case of Society for Unaided Private Schools of
 Rajasthan v. Union of India27 , has held as under: 106. It can, therefore, be inferred that the legislative intent behind the
 enactment of legislations in benefit of the economically marginalized
 sections was to ensure that the shackles of poverty are broken to help
 children from weaker sections to gain quality education. The EWS
 reservation in schools is, thus, not merely an enticing promise but a
 sincere attempt to maintain equitable standards of education for all in
 a multifaceted socio-economic structure. As the custodian of the
 constitution which seeks to weed out arbitrariness, this court cannot
 allow anyone to overwhelm the scheme of the welfare legislation in
 question by playing maneuvers. 107. In light of the aforesaid, this court does not find any reason to
 interfere with the show cause notice and impugned order dated
 09.02.2021 as well as the letter issued by respondent no.2-School
 dated 15.02.2021. 108. However, this court is also conscious of the fact that the
 petitioner is not at fault in the whole saga. It is the father of the 27 Signature Not Verified (2012) 6 SCC 1 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 53 - petitioner who perpetuated the misdeeds for which the petitioner
 should not be made to suffer at this belated stage, precisely when the
 petitioner has been continuing his studies since 2013. Therefore, in the
 peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case, this court directs
 that the admission of the petitioner in respondent no.2-School shall
 remain undisturbed. However, the admission of the petitioner and his
 continued education hereinafter shall be recognized under the General
 Category in place of EWS category. The extant rules and regulations
 governing the admission of students belonging to General Category,
 including the payment of fees, shall apply hereinafter. 109. The aforesaid direction is, however, subject to heavy cost that
 should be imposed in the instant case for obtaining admission under
 the EWS category by illicit means and depriving a deserving
 candidate. In view of the fact that nothing could be more unfortunate
 for a school-going child, at the stage of learning ethical and moral
 values, being made to suffer on account of the misdeeds of his father,
 only a sum amounting to the tune of Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees ten lacs
 only) is imposed as costs in lieu of the cancellation of the admission of
 the petitioner vide orders dated 09.02.2021 and 15.02.2021, and in lieu
 of continuation of the petitioner‟s admission. Let the same be
 deposited with respondent no.2-School within six months of the
 passing of this judgment. The said amount be utilized by respondent
 no.2-School for aiding the needs of the children admitted in
 respondent no.2-School in EWS category, under intimation to
 respondent no.1-DOE. 110. The aforesaid cost has been imposed after assessing the affluent
 financial well-being of the petitioner‟s father, which is evident from Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 54 - the ITRs of the subsequent years, numerous foreign trips etc. and also
 considering the fact that the petitioner has eaten up the seat of a
 deserving child, who would have otherwise enjoyed the fortune of
 quality education. If the cost is not deposited by the father of the
 petitioner within six months as stipulated above, the petitioner‟s
 admission shall be deemed to be cancelled in accordance with the
 impugned orders dated 09.02.2021 and 15.02.2021 and the amount
 shall be recovered as the arrears of land revenue from the petitioner‟s
 father. 111. The judiciary is said to be tacitly in a constant dialogue with the
 legislature through the respective constitutional roles performed by
 them, with a sole aim of strengthening the democratic values. The said
 dialogue is not exclusive to the legislative or executive domain and the
 judiciary, owing to its peculiar position as a constitutional arbiter, also
 engages in a parallel dialogue with the society on a case-to-case basis.
 In fact, this dialogic jurisprudence has been acknowledged by the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court while dealing with various issues and has
 proved to be an effective tool for fulfilling the legislative intent and
 constitutional vision. Therefore, before parting ways, it is significant
 to highlight the clarion call to revisit the income criterion set out for
 availing the benefits of the EWS reservation scheme in schools. While
 adjudicating the present case, it has come to the notice of this court
 that the minimum wage of an unskilled labourer in Delhi is Rs
 17,494/- per month but startlingly, as per the existing eligibility
 criterion, even children of such labourers are not entitled for reaping
 the benefits of the EWS scheme for securing admission in schools. It
 is, at any prudent stretch of imagination, too far-fetched to assume that
 the total parental income of a child seeking admissionSignature Signature Not Verified under Not
 EWS
 Verified
Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 55 - category and living in a metropolitan city like Delhi shall be below Rs.
 1,00,000/- per annum. 112. In the considered opinion of this court, the threshold income of
 Rs. 1,00,000/- does not precisely reflect the economic hardships faced
 by the families in the contemporary times and therefore, it ought to
 change with the dynamism of the economic structure of the society. A
 comparative analysis of the said threshold income criterion in the NCT
 of Delhi with rest of the States and Union Territories would signify
 that the NCT of Delhi has the lowest requisite income criteria as
 compared to the amount of Rs. 8 lakhs per annum followed by most of
 the States. It is apparently forcing the common people, who otherwise
 fall in the bottom line of the economic strata, to resort to unfair means
 to secure admission for their children or to keep their hands off from
 the benefits of welfare legislation. In the present times, injustice may
 or may not reach the courts, but the constitutional courts must
 endeavour to reach the injustices. 113. It is deeply agonizing to see the complete apathy and
 lackadaisical attitude of the State authorities which is at the helm of
 protecting the educational rights of the economically weaker sections
 of the society, which flow from the fundamental Right to Education.
 The efficacious realization of the Constitution‟s inherent objectives go
 beyond mere drafting and perusal. To respect the letter and spirit of
 law, it is imperative that the responsible instrumentality diligently
 supervises the implementation of the law. A law, however, benevolent
 in its intentions, remains inefficacious unless those entrusted with its
 execution and implementation judiciously discharge their duties. This
 gains greater relevance in the context of beneficial legislations, which Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 56 - attend to the needs of individuals marginalised on the fringes of
 society. 114. The very edifice of the idea of transformative constitutionalism
 rests on the pillar of constitutional morality. The idea is to adhere to
 the moral standards of the Constitution in order to achieve
 transformative goals i.e., instilling the principles of equality, dignity,
 liberty and fraternity into the society to bring about a social change. It
 is significant to reminisce the excerpts of the infamous „Grammar of
 Anarchy‟ speech of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar who remarked,
 "Because I feel, however good a Constitution may be, it is sure to turn
 out bad because those who are called to work it, happen to be a bad
 lot. However bad a Constitution may be, it may turn out to be good if
 those who are called to work it, happen to be a good lot." 115. In the instant case, there is no fact to indicate that respondent
 no.1-DOE or the Government has conducted any random inquiry to
 test the genuineness of candidates. If an inquiry is directed at this
 stage, the same would possibly create a havoc and chaos in the
 education system. The possibility of finding a large number of self-
 declarations to be false cannot be ruled out. Therefore, the manner of
 issuance of certificate should be made more responsive, credible and
 transparent so that that the same can benefit the rightful beneficiaries.
 There has to be some sanctity for issuing the certificates for reaping
 the benefits and it ought not to be issued on flimsy grounds. 116. It is also pertinent to note that the income certificate required
 for the purpose of continuation of admission in EWS category as per
 the 2011 Order is merely based on the self-declaration of income
 which further exacerbates the misery of the deserving candidates as
 such certificates are more susceptible to misrepresentation in absence Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 57 - of any resilient framework in place for checking the veracity of the
 same. 117. In view of the aforesaid facts, this court considered it
 appropriate to seek assistance from respondent no.1-DOE and
 accordingly, on 30.10.2023, personal appearance of the Director, DOE
 was directed to clarify certain relevant aspects. On 01.11.2023, the
 Director, DOE appeared before the Court and apprised that pursuant to
 the concerns raised by this Court, he has proposed to increase the
 threshold income as per 2011 Order, from existing amount of Rs. 1
 lakh to Rs. 2.5 lakhs per annum. However, the proposed increase also
 does not seem to ameliorate the miserable situation prevailing in the
 schools of NCT of Delhi. 118. The welfare legislations are the heart and soul of a welfare State
 and act as catalysts in realizing the ideals of an egalitarian society and
 reinforce the aim of our nation‟s tryst with destiny. The appropriate
 Government is reasonably expected to respond to the changing needs
 of the society, considering the relevant factors affecting such welfare
 measures. In fact, it is an obligation upon the State to strive towards
 achieving a social, economic and political justice for its people, which
 is deeply embedded in the Preamble to the Constitution of India.
 Therefore, if the appropriate Government choses to put such
 legislations on the back burner, at times, the judiciary has to step in for
 the people who lack wherewithal to draw the intended benefits. 119. Considering the aforesaid and to align the scheme with its
 intended purpose and to curb the evils such as the one practiced in the
 instant case, it is deemed necessary to pass the following directions to Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:05.12.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
14:27:02
 KUMAR KAURAV - 58 - ensure the implementation of the RTE Act and 2011 Order in its true
 letter and spirit: 120. With the aforesaid directions, the petition stands dismissed with
 the above-mentioned costs. Pending application(s) are also disposed of
 accordingly.