% 12.02.2024 1. By way of the present petition filed under Section 11(6) of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter, referred to as the
 „A&C Act‟), the petitioner seeks appointment of an Arbitral Tribunal
 comprising of a Sole Arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes between the
 parties. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the present case are that on 08.02.2007, Mr.
 S.K Zaman husband of respondent No.1 and father of respondent no.2
 had borrowed money from the petitioner and further time to time in the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:24
 year 2007-2008 amounting to approximately 1.11 crores for the purpose
 of investing in certain real estate properties including the subject
 property. However, an MOU dated 16.07.2012 was executed between
 Late Sh. S. K. Zaman and the petitioner whereby it was agreed that a
 lump-sum amount would be paid. Thereafter, the original title deeds and
 possession of the flat referred to in the MOU were handed over to the
 petitioner by Mr. S. K. Zaman since he could not pay the outstanding
 amount of Rs. 1.50 crores as the lump-sum amount of settlement within
 a period of three years along with interest @ 12% per annum from the
 date of MOU as a full and final settlement with respect to the subject
 property. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the MOU dated
 16.07.2012 contains the arbitration clause (clause 4) and provides that
 in case of any dispute, the matter shall be referred to arbitration. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that since Late Sh. S.
 K. Zaman could not pay the aforesaid amount by 2015, he handed over
 the possession of the subject property along with original title deeds.
 Subsequently, Late Sh. S. K. Zaman passed away on 30.03.2018 leaving
 behind the respondents to the present petition as his only legal heirs. 5. Learned senior counsel for the respondent has vehemently contested the
 petition in reply filed by respondent No.2. It has been stated that the
 aforementioned MOU is a forged and fabricated document and does not
 contain the signature of Late Sh. S. K. Zaman. 6. Learned senior counsel for respondent No.2 has further submitted that
 the coordinate bench of this court in the CS(OS)114/2023 (previously
 being CS(COMM) No. 543/2020) titled as "Jairaj Developers LLP

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:24
 through its partner Ankur Arora v. Mrs. Fauzia Sultana & Anr.". has
 dealt the issue regarding the forgery, and the Court vide order dated
 22.02.2021 directed the Delhi Police to conduct an enquiry and if any
 cognizable offence is to found to have been committed, to register the
 FIR and take appropriate action in accordance with the law regarding
 the MOU dated 16.07.2012. 7. Learned senior counsel for respondent No.2 has stated that Dr. Joy
 Tirkey, DCP, Crime Branch submitted the status report which was taken
 into account by the Court and the following order was passed on vide
 order dated 12.05.2021. [Emphasis Supplied] 8. Learned senior counsel for respondent No.2 has further invited the
 attention of the Court to the report filed by the Investigating Agency
 dated 18.07.2021 which reads as follows; [Emphasis Supplied]

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25 9. Learned senior counsel for respondent No.2 has further stated that
 therefore there is a categorical opinion of the investigating agency that
 the signatures of Late Sh. S. K. Zaman on the MOU are forged and
 fabricated. Learned senior counsel for the respondent No.2 has further
 invited the attention of the Court to the petition filed by the petitioner
 under Section 9 of the Act bearing O.M.P.(I) (COMM)290/2019 titled
 as " Dushyant Chikara v. Fauzia Sultana & Anr. " which was dismissed
 by the coordinate Bench of this Court by a detailed order dated 22.11.
 2023. Learned senior counsel for the respondent No.2 also invited the
 attention of the court to the report dated 14.07.2021 and 25.02.2022. 10. Learned senior counsel for the respondent No.2 has relied upon the
 judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in A. Ayyasamy v. A.
 Paramasivam and Others (2016 10 SCC 386) wherein it was inter alia
 held as under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25
 entire contract, including the agreement to arbitrate,
 meaning thereby in those cases where fraud goes to the
 validity of the contract itself of the entire contract which
 contains the arbitration clause or the validity of the
 arbitration clause itself. Reverse position thereof would be
 that where there are simple allegations of fraud touching
 upon the internal affairs of the party inter se and it has no
 implication in the public domain, the arbitration clause
 need not be avoided and the parties can be relegated to
 arbitration. While dealing with such an issue in an
 application under Section 8 of the Act, the focus of the court
 has to be on the question as to whether jurisdiction of the
 court has been ousted instead of focusing on the issue as to
 whether the court has jurisdiction or not. It has to be kept in
 mind that insofar as the statutory scheme of the Act is
 concerned, it does not specifically exclude any category of
 cases as non-arbitrable. Such categories of non-arbitrable
 subjects are carved out by the courts, keeping in mind the
 principle of common law that certain disputes which are of
 public nature, etc. are not capable of adjudication and
 settlement by arbitration and for resolution of such disputes,
 courts i.e. public fora, are better suited than a private forum
 of arbitration. Therefore, the inquiry of the Court, while
 dealing with an application under Section 8 of the Act,
 should be on the aforesaid aspect viz. whether the nature of
 dispute is such that it cannot be referred to arbitration, even
 if there is an arbitration agreement between the parties.
 When the case of fraud is set up by one of the parties and on
 that basis that party wants to wriggle out of that arbitration
 agreement, a strict and meticulous inquiry into the
 allegations of fraud is needed and only when the Court is
 satisfied that the allegations are of serious and complicated
 nature that it would be more appropriate for the Court to
 deal with the subject-matter rather than relegating the
 parties to arbitration, then alone such an application under Section 8 should be rejected. 11. Learned senior counsel for respondent No.2 has further relied upon

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25 Vidya Drolia and Others v. Durga Trading Corporation , with Lindsay
 International Private Limited v. IFGL Refractories Limited with Creative Infocity Limited v. Gujarat Informatics Limited , (2021) 2
 SCC 1 it was inter alia held as under; 61. On the question of non-arbitrability when there are
 allegations of fraud, Dr A.K. Sikri, J. in A. Ayyasamy [A.
 Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam , (2016) 10 SCC 386 : (2017)
 1 SCC (Civ) 79] observed : ( A. Ayyasamy case[ A.
 Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam , (2016) 10 SCC 386 : (2017)
 1 SCC (Civ) 79] , SCC p. 407, para 25) 25. ... finds that there are very serious allegations of fraud
 which make a virtual case of criminal offence or where
 allegations of fraud are so complicated that it becomes
 absolutely essential that such complex issues can be decided
 only by the civil court on the appreciation of the voluminous
 evidence that needs to be produced, the court can sidetrack
 the agreement by dismissing the application under Section 8 and proceed with the suit on merits. It can be so done also
 in those cases where there are serious allegations of
 forgery/fabrication of documents in support of the plea of
 fraud or where fraud is alleged against the arbitration
 provision itself or is of such a nature that permeates the
 entire contract, including the agreement to arbitrate,
 meaning thereby in those cases where fraud goes to the
 validity of the contract itself of the entire contract which
 contains the arbitration clause or the validity of the
 arbitration clause itself. ... Such categories of non-
 arbitrable subjects are carved out by the courts, keeping in
 mind the principle of common law that certain disputes
 which are of public nature, etc. are not capable of
 adjudication and settlement by arbitration and for
 resolution of such disputes, courts i.e. public fora, are better
 suited than a private forum of arbitration." 12. Learned counsel for respondent No.2 also submitted that the present

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25
 MOU being forged and fabricated cannot be referred to the arbitration
 therefore the present petition is liable to be dismissed. 13. Learned senior counsel for the respondent No.2 has submitted that
 reliance on Parveen Electricals Private Limited v. Galaxy Infra and
 Engineering Private Limited (2021) 5 SSC 671 is misconceived as the
 facts of the case were different in nature. 14. Per contra, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that recently in Cox and Kings Limited v. SAP India Private Limited 2023 SCC
 OnLine SC 1634, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has delineated the
 jurisdiction of this Court while dealing with the petition under Section
 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Learned counsel also
 submitted that the issue of whether the signatures on the MOU are
 forged or fabricated cannot be tried by this Court at the stage of the
 reference. Learned counsel further submitted that this Court at this stage
 cannot hold a mini-trial to adjudicate the same. Learned counsel has
 relied upon Parveen Electricals Private Limited v. Galaxy Infra and
 Engineering Private Limited (2021) 5 SSC 671 as well as the judgment
 of Bombay High Court in M/s Atul & Arkade Relaty, V I.A. & I.C. Pvt.
 Ltd & Ors in (Arb. P) 72 of 2013. 15. The present petition has been filed for the appointment of an arbitrator. The notice was issued to the respondents. 16. The jurisdiction of the Court under Section 11 of the Act as held by the
 Apex Court is limited to the extent that the court is only required to see
 whether there is an arbitration agreement and whether an arbitrable
 dispute exists between the parties reliance can be placed upon M/S
 Duro Felguera, S.A. vs Gangavaram Port Limited (2017) 9 SCC 729. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25
 Though, the jurisdiction of this Court is very limited at this stage,
 however, at the same time, the Court cannot shut its eyes to the
 documents placed before the Court. There cannot be any doubt to the
 proposition that if the document on the face of it is forged and
 fabricated or there is a conclusive finding of any Court of law regarding
 the authenticity, genuineness and validity of the document, such
 documents cannot be referred to the arbitration. However, in the present
 case, there are FSL reports on the record saying that the signatures of
 late Sh. S. K. Zaman was forged and fabricated. On the contrary, the
 petitioner has also filed an FSL Report to say that the signatures are not
 forged. Therefore, this issue is required to be adjudicated. 17. In Parveen Electricals Private Limited (supra) the Apex Court has
 inter alia as under;- ........This is a case which eminently cries for the truth to
 come out between the parties through documentary evidence
 and cross-examination. Large pieces of the jigsaw puzzle
 that form the documentary evidence between the parties in
 this case remained unfilled. The emails dated 22-7-2014
 and 25-7-2014 produced here for the first time as well as
 certain correspondence between Sbpdcl and the respondent
 do show that there is some dealing between the appellant
 and the respondent qua a tender floated by Sbpdcl, but that
 is not sufficient to conclude that there is a concluded
 contract between the parties, which contains an arbitration
 clause. Given the inconclusive nature of the finding by
 CFSL together with the signing of the agreement in
 Haryana by parties whose registered offices are at Bombay
 and Bihar qua works to be executed in Bihar; given the fact
 that the Notary who signed the agreement was not
 authorised to do so and various other conundrums that
 arise on the facts of this case, it is unsafe to conclude, one
 way or the other, that an arbitration agreement exists

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25
 between the parties. The prima facie review spoken of in Vidya Drolia [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn. ,
 (2021) 2 SCC 1 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549] can lead to only
 one conclusion on the facts of this case -- that a deeper
 consideration of whether an arbitration agreement exists
 between the parties must be left to an arbitrator who is to
 examine the documentary evidence produced before him in
 detail after witnesses are cross-examined on the same. 18. In M/s Atul & Arkade Relaty, V I.A. & I.C. Pvt. Ltd & Ors. (Supra), it
 was inter alia held as under; - 59. The aforesaid stand of the Applicant is, in a sense,
 compatible with two diverse possibilities. One, it may lend
 credence to the defence of the Respondents that the thumb
 impression, rubber stamp and circular embossed seal, were
 not affixed on the Joint Venture Agreement by Mr. Rajendra
 Parekh and the Respondent Companies, as alleged by the
 Applicant. Two, it may explain away the allegations of fraud
 in the sense that the Joint Venture Agreement was indeed
 executed on 28th March, 2007 and, thereafter, the thumb
 impressions, seals and the stamps were impressed thereon.
 Which of the two is preponderately probable is a matter for
 adjudication. 60. Either way, the issue revolves around the execution of
 the Joint Venture Agreement 70. is imperative to note that the allegations of fraud do not
 pertain to the acts to be performed by the public authorities
 or the record to be maintained by the public authorities.
 They are essentially in the context of the execution of the
 Joint Venture Agreement. It would be necessary to note, at
 this juncture, that criminal proceedings alleging offences
 having been committed in the course of the transaction,
 including in respect of the agreement in question, have
 already been initiated by the Applicant and the
 Respondents. The criminal aspect of fraud, forgery and
 fabrication would, thus, be adjudicated in the proceedings
 which have already been initiated. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25 19. The consistent law is that it is mandatory for courts to refer disputes to
 arbitration, if the agreement between parties provides for reference to
 arbitration. Mere registration of criminal case in relation to the
 agreement concerned on grounds such as fraud, corruption or collusion
 against members of both parties, is not an absolute bar to refer the
 disputes to arbitration. It has been held that to shut out the arbitration at
 the initial stage itself would destroy the very purpose for which the
 parties had entered into arbitration and that there is no inherent risk of
 prejudice to any of the parties in permitting the criminal proceedings to
 simultaneously proceed with the arbitration. In Swiss Timing Limited v.
 Commonwealth Games 2010 Organising Committee, (2014) 6 SCC
 677 wherein court inter alia held as under; 27. However, it would not be possible to shut out arbitration even
 in cases where the defence taken is that the contract is voidable.
 These would be cases which are covered under the circumstances
 narrated in Section 12 -- unsoundness of mind; Section 14 --
 absence of free consent i.e. where the consent is said to be vitiated
 as it was obtained by coercion ( Section 15 ), undue influence
 ( Section 16 ), fraud ( Section 17 ) or misrepresentation ( Section 18 ).
 Such a contract will only become void when the party claiming
 lack of free consent is able to prove the same and thus rendering
 the contract void. This indeed is the provision contained in Section
 2(j) of the Contract Act. In exercising powers under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, the Court has to keep in view the provisions
 contained in Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, which provides that
 a reference to arbitration shall be made if a party applies not later
 than when submitting his first statement on the substance of the
 dispute. In contrast, Section 45 of the aforesaid Act permits the
 Court to decline reference to arbitration in case the Court finds
 that the agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of
 being performed. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25 28. To shut out arbitration at the initial stage would destroy the
 very purpose for which the parties had entered into arbitration.
 Furthermore, there is no inherent risk of prejudice to any of the
 parties in permitting arbitration to proceed simultaneously to the
 criminal proceedings. In an eventuality where ultimately an award
 is rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal, and the criminal proceedings
 result in conviction rendering the underlying contract void,
 necessary plea can be taken on the basis of the conviction to resist
 the execution/enforcement of the award. Conversely, if the matter
 is not referred to arbitration and the criminal proceedings result
 in an acquittal and thus leaving little or no ground for claiming
 that the underlying contract is void or voidable, it would have the
 wholly undesirable result of delaying the arbitration. Therefore, I
 am of the opinion that the Court ought to act with caution and
 circumspection whilst examining the plea that the main contract
 is void or voidable. The Court ought to decline reference to
 arbitration only where the Court can reach the conclusion that the
 contract is void on a meaningful reading of the contract document
 itself without the requirement of any further proof. 20. I consider that though the FSL reports are there to say that the
 signatures of Sh. S. K. Zaman on documents are forged and fabricated.
 At the same time, the petitioner is also relying upon an expert report to
 say that signatures are not forged. In any case, it requires adjudication
 from a competent Court of law. At best, at this stage, both the parties
 are relying upon their reports. There has to be a finding on the record to
 authenticate the same. I consider that the view taken by the Bombay
 High Court seems to be a plausible one and particularly in view of Parveen Electricals Private Limited v. Galaxy Infra and Engineering
 Private Limited ( supra) and Cox and Kings Limited v. SAP India
 Private Limited (supra) 21. Considering the same the matter be referred to the arbitral tribunal with

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25
 the following directions: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25
 either of the parties, are left open for adjudication by the learned
 arbitrator. ix) The parties shall approach the learned arbitrator within two weeks
 from today. 22. The petition is disposed of in the above terms. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 FEBRUARY 12, 2024
 Pallavi//Ak

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/02/2024 at 21:48:25