R. MAHADEVAN, J. Temples are the abodes of the Almighty. Devotees gather together as a

 result of their steadfast belief and faith in the highest power and visit these holy

 grounds, seeking blessings, serenity, guidance and to elevate their spiritual

 experience. Though the experience that each devotee undergoes or his purpose

 of visit is distinct, but the common factor called "faith" unites them. Their

 devotion takes various forms. Some offer daily greetings to the Lord, some sing

 praises and chant the Holy Scriptures while others offer money in the form of

 donations, special prayers and rituals. Unfortunately, where there is go(o)d, there

 is also evil. Some people take advantage of the religious faith of the devotees',

 fraudulently monetize it by creating illegal websites in the name of the deities / 5/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 temple(s). Through such websites, they collect huge amount for special

 darshans, rituals and other services from the devotees, but pay only a paltry sum

 to the administration of the temples, thereby deriving unlawful gain. This type of

 scam, regrettably, is a common occurrence in today’s time. The authorities who

 are bound to take stern action against those perpetrators, so as to prevent

 innocent devotees from falling prey to such dirty tricks, have failed to act

 accordingly. Such is the issue involved in the present writ petitions. 2. The petitioners herein have come up with these writ petitions in the

 nature of public interest litigation, seeking a direction to the respondent

 authorities to take action against the illegal / bogus websites opened in the name

 of deities / temples coming under the Hindu Religious and Charitable

 Endowments Department and recover the proceeds generated thereof.

 Particularly, WP (MD) No. 23410 of 2022 is filed for a direction to shut down /

 close the fake websites opened in the name of Arulmighu Amirthakadeswarar

 Temple, Thirukadaiyur, Mayiladuthurai District and take necessary criminal and

 disciplinary action against the priests / gurukkals / archakars for diverting and

 usurping money from the devotees for conduct of various ceremonies in the

 name of the temple and for distorting history by making the devotees to visit Sri

 Markandeya Temple. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 3.1. For the sake of convenience, we shall first take the case of the

 petitioner in WP (MD) No.23671 of 2022. According to the petitioner, the

 temples are being maintained and administered by the Hindu Religious and

 Charitable Endowments Department (in short, “the HR&CE Department”) along

 with trustees / Fit persons. For the purpose of performing poojas and various

 other religious activities, the devotees pay the prescribed fee in the offices

 established in the temples, for which receipts will be issued and the amount will

 be accounted for. The temples also get funds by way of donations / offerings

 made by the devotees in the Hundial kept therein. That apart, there are numerous

 foreign donors, who are contributing and donating huge sums to the temples.

 Thus, the devotees give utmost importance and reverence to the donations. The

 petitioner further stated that for the purpose of accounting the amounts received

 by the temples in various forms from the devotees, the Installation, Safeguarding

 and Accounting of Hundials Rules, 1975 was enacted. Similarly, the amounts

 received for the performance of various religious rites, such as, pooja,

 abhishegam, annadhanam, etc., are also accounted for and the same are

 periodically subjected to audit and a report will be submitted to the concerned

 authorities. Thus, there are procedures under Chapter VIII (Budgets, Accounts

 and Audits) and Chapter IX (Finance) of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and 7/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022 Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (in short, “the HR& CE Act ”), for receipt of

 amounts for various religious activities performed in the temples. 3.2. The grievance of the petitioner is that there are instances where

 third parties are collecting funds through fake and illegal websites by opening

 accounts in the name of deities /temples across the State, for providing various

 services, pooja, etc., to the devotees. The so-called third parties are not

 authorised to collect the funds for and on behalf of the temples. The amount in

 any form to the temples has to be received/collected only by the authorised and

 appropriate officer, such as Trustee, Fit Person or the Executive Officer of the

 temples and it cannot be permitted to be received by third parties for any reason.

 Even though technology has assisted the temple administration to a great extent

 to offer various services at the click of a button, it has it's own grey area as it is

 misused by third parties for unlawful gain. By using the name of the temples, the

 third parties created fake and unauthorised websites, which look similar to the

 one opened by the temples. Such fake websites have mushroomed and

 proliferated in the cyber space and if it is permitted to continue, it will not only

 result in huge financial loss to the temples, but also amount to cheating the

 public under the garb of faith. Apart from the temples coming under the HR&CE

 Department, some illegal and bogus websites have been opened in the name of 8/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 the temples under the control of the Mutts. The petitioner in paragraph Nos.18

 and 23 of the affidavit filed in support of the writ petition bearing no.23671 of

 2022 has also furnished the details of the bogus websites, such as,

 https://thirukadaiyurtemple.online/index.html, https://thirukadaiyurtemple.in

 / about/, https://www.thirukadaiyurmarriagetemple.com/, http://srirangam.com/,

 http://www.srirangam.ramanujartemples.net/, etc. and the contact numbers of the

 persons relating to such websites. According to the petitioner, such persons, who

 had opened fake websites, claim to have link with the officers and archakars of

 the temples and to have rendered all the services, poojas, etc., to the devotees

 and they generate huge money illegally, but pay only a paltry sum to the temples. 3.3. Referring to section 23 of the HR& CE Act , under which, the

 Commissioner of HR&CE Department is empowered to exercise general

 superintendence and control over all the temples and ensure that the properties

 of the temples are properly administered and accounted for, the petitioner stated

 that the illegal websites opened in the name of the temples across the State have

 to be shut down / closed and/ or controlled by the first respondent, as they are

 causing great confusion among the devotees, who are being misled by these

 spurious websites; and that, the first respondent has to take appropriate criminal

 action against the owners / admins of those illegal websites and recover the 9/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 monies collected by them from the devotees unauthorisedly. Stating so, the

 petitioner sent representations dated 19.08.2022 and 30.09.2022 to the

 respondents. Since no action has been taken on the said representations, he has

 preferred this writ petition viz., WP (MD) No. 23671 of 2022. 4.1. The case projected by the petitioner in WP (MD) No. 23410 of 2022

 is that Arulmighu Amirthakadeswarar Temple, Thirukadaiyur, Mayiladuthurai is

 one of the well known temples in the State, which is under the control and

 administration of Dharmapuram Adheenam. It is renowned for performing

 Shashti Apda Poorthi (on completing 60 years) Beemaradha Shanthi (on

 completion of 70 years) and Sathabhishekam (upon completing 80 years). For

 the purpose of performing the said rituals, devotees from all corners of the

 Country visit the said temple. Even the foreigners are visiting the temple and

 experiencing various services offered in the temple. The payment for these

 religious activities is collected by the temple administration, receipts are issued

 and the amount is properly accounted for. For easy accessibility, such services

 are also rendered to the devotees on-line. The Temple Administration has

 created exclusive website in the name of the temple through which the devotees

 can book and/or reserve for a particular service on any given date. The website

 has been created mainly keeping in view the convenience of devotees, who come 10/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 from a long distance. The on-line facilities introduced by the temple, provide

 hassle free service, but the same has been misused and abused by disgruntled

 elements for personal gain. 4.2. According to the petitioner in WP(MD)No.23410 of 2022, various

 websites depicting the name of the subject temple and deity, have been opened

 by unauthorised persons to earn money illegally. Such unauthorised persons

 collect amount for conducting poojas and ceremonies to be performed in the

 temple. They also receive donations and contributions in the name of the

 temple / deity. They make advertisement as if the websites created by them are

 the official websites of the temple. Such illegal websites are akin to the one

 created by the temple administration. In such event, the devotees, believing the

 bogus websites as official, pay whatever charges demanded by them, and fall

 prey to the fraudsters. In this process, if a devotee intends to make donation or

 book an on-line ticket for a specific ritual, there is every chance that such a

 devotee is misled by the bogus website, which claims to provide similar service

 as that of the temple. Further, the websites host the name of persons who are in

 actual position of the temple as gurukkals/archakars, without any authority or

 authorisation from such persons. Thus, the innocent devotees are easily cheated

 by the gullible website owners. Apart from these websites, the gurukkals / 11/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 archakars have setup touts inside the temple and they provide details of packages

 for conduct of sashti aptha purthi, Ukra Radha Shanti, Beema Radha Shanti,

 Sathabishekam. These packages are not part of the temple donations but rather

 they have been made by these touts of the gurukkals / archakars to collect money

 from the devotees. They charge exorbitant amount from the devotees in the name

 of the temple to carry out these poojas and ceremonies. 4.3. The petitioner also stated that without the approval, cooperation or

 consent of the temple administration, these illegal / bogus websites cannot exist

 at all. Moreover, these websites demand payment illegally for providing quick

 and hassle-free services in the temple. They even offer packages which include

 catering, accommodation, pooja expenses, etc. and thereby sway the devotees.

 The devotees are made to believe that the donation reaches the temple

 administration, but it is swindled by the middlemen and such illegal act is

 perpetrated wholly with the connivance and cooperation of the

 Priests/Gurukkals/Archakars in the temple, which is evident from the name and

 contact number of Priests / Gurukkals / Archakars prominently mentioned in the

 bogus websites. Though they claim to represent the interest of the temple, in

 reality, they work for their own narrow and personal interest and enrich

 themselves at the costs of the temple administration. The performance of poojas, 12/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 marriage ceremonies, abhishekam etc., is thriving like a coveted business. The

 petitioner also recounted that on an average, the priests / gurukkals/archakars get

 close to Rs.2 to 4 lakhs for performing the religious ceremonies, but only a sum

 of Rs.2,000/- or Rs.3,000/- is offered to the temple administration; and that, they

 perform nearly 1000 to 2000 marriages every year and hence, the gravity of the

 amount swindled by these persons cannot be determined. Thus, according to the

 petitioner, the respondent authorities have to take necessary steps to control such

 middlemen, unruly priests / gurukkals/archakars, besides taking action against

 illegal and bogus websites in the name of the subject temple. 4.4. The petitioner also pointed out in the affidavit filed in support of

 this writ petition viz., WP (MD) No.23410 of 2022 that the priests / gurukkals/

 archakars in the subject temple have set up a separate temple on their own called

 as Sri Markandeya Temple by diluting the history and origin of Arulmighu

 Amirtha Kadeswarar Temple. It is stated that Sri Markendeya Temple is the

 place where Markandeyar had meditated, but it is far from truth. There is no

 single Thevaram hymn nor is there any history of Nayanmar having visited this

 temple. It is in existence only for 20 years, but the gurukkals / archakars claim

 this temple as old that of Thirukadaiyur Temple. According to the petitioner, this

 temple was established by the priests / gurukkals/archakars themselves with a 13/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 sole intention to misrepresent the history and overshadow the Thirukkadaiyur

 temple so as to divert the devotees to make them to visit this temple as well. The

 priests / gurukkals / archakars are also receiving donations from the devotees

 who visit Sri Markandeya Temple which goes largely unaccounted. Even the

 details of this temple are promptly mentioned in the fake websites created by

 third parties. In the home page of the website “trvramalingam.in” it is

 mentioned that "TRV. Ramalinga Gurukkal" is the Chief Temple Priest of

 Thirukadaiyur temple, which is utterly false. The photos of the priests /

 gurukkals/ archakars with various dignitaries, such as, former Governor of Tamil

 Nadu are also portrayed in the website to sway the devotees. 4.5. The petitioner further stated that in the same website

 “trvramalingam.in”, it is mentioned that the so-called Sri Markandeya Temple

 was established and looked after by Dr.T.R. Viswanatha Gurukkal and his son,

 T.R.V.Ramalinga Gurukkal. It was further claimed that Mr. Ramalinga Gurukkal

 is the Chief Priest of Thirukadaiyur temple. In the website, it is also mentioned

 that all the poojas performed in Thirukadaiyur Temple, are being done in Sri

 Markandeya Temple. Thus, it is sought to be projected that poojas and religious

 activities performed in Thirukadaiyur Temple can also be performed in Sri 14/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 Markandeya Temple to get the divine grace of the deity. That apart, it is claimed

 in the said website that "Those who have come with, wish to get the blessings of

 Lord Amirthakadeshwarar and Lordess Abhirami for their prosperous life at

 Thirukadaiyur must also visit this Markandeyar's temple for a full prosperous

 life and for the welfare of their family". This, according to the petitioner, is a

 false propaganda unleashed by fake website owners to flock the devotees to Sri

 Markandeya Temple and to sway them under the guise of performing various

 religious acts. The intention behind setting up Sri Markandeya Temple by the

 priests / gurukkals/ archakars of Thirukadaiyur Temple is to distort history,

 undermine the importance of Thirukadaiyur Temple, divert the devotees to the

 new temple and get donations from them. Therefore, the petitioner would state

 that the priests of the Thirukadaiyur Temple need to be restrained from making

 any false propaganda about Sri Markandeya Temple. Further, the

 misrepresentation projected in the bogus websites, has to be removed and that,

 civil and criminal actions have to be taken against the gurukkals / archakars who

 associate themselves with the promoters of fake websites. The petitioner has

 brought the same to the notice of the respondent authorities for appropriate

 action. He has also made representations, lastly on 14.09.2022 to the respondents

 seeking to shut down/close the bogus websites opened in the name of Sri

 Thirukadaiyur Amirthakadeshwarar Temple and recover the money collected 15/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 from the devotees, besides taking action against the priests / gurukkals /

 archakars of the temple, who illegally demand money for conduct of

 poojas/ceremonies and illegally spreading false information about Sri

 Markandeya Temple. However, all his attempts including the representation

 dated 14.09.2022 ended in vain. Therefore, this writ petition, viz., WP(MD) No.

 23410 of 2022. 5.1. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner in both these writ

 petitions, in unison, submitted that the fake websites created in the name of the

 deities / temples have to be removed / closed and the proceeds generated

 thereunder have to be recovered by the first respondent, by virtue of the power

 conferred under section 23 of the HR& CE Act . According to the learned

 counsel, the purity and sanctity have to be maintained in the temples and that,

 the poojas, archanais, abhishekams and other rituals performed in the temples

 should not be exploited and commercially exposed for private gain by the third

 parties. It is further submitted that the fake websites have been created to sway

 the devotees for a long time. However the department did not take any action

 thereof. Rather, the unauthorised creators of the websites have been allowed to

 enrich themselves at the costs of the temple administration. Pointing out the 16/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 same, the petitioners made representations and requested the respondent

 authorities to take appropriate action, but the same have not been considered till

 date. 5.2. Adding further, the learned counsel for the petitioner in WP (MD)

 No.23410 of 2022 submitted that among the several fake websites, primarily, 7

 websites are swaying the devotees and engaged in collecting money for all types

 of pujas, archanais, abhishegam, homam, prasadam besides collecting donation.

 For a normal puja of Rs.50/-, they are collecting Rs.1,051/-. For a prasadam

 offered by the temple at a cost of Rs.225/-, a sum of Rs.1,000/- is charged.

 Similarly, for performing Pooja in all Navagraha temples, a sum of Rs.1,001/- is

 being charged for a single pooja. For performing homam, amount ranging from

 Rs.5,000/- to Rs.12,500/- is being charged. That apart, many special live

 Archanai, abhishegam and other rituals are performed for a minimum cost of Rs.

 3,000/- per pooja. By such acts, the individuals earn not less than Rs.15 lakhs to

 Rs.3 crores per month. Above all, these websites so far raised funds from private

 investors/Angel investors/Venture Capitalists to the tune of Rs.100 crores. On

 the other hand, the temples, where these rituals are being performed, receive

 only a meagre amount. Thus, according to the learned counsel, such unlawful

 collection of money from the devotees in the name of the temple cannot be

 permitted to be sustained and stringent action has to be taken against such 17/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 perpetrators. The learned counsel further submitted that a new temple called Sri

 Markandeya Temple, which has no historical reference or archaeological

 heritage, is being promoted by the priests / gurukkals / archakars of

 Thirukadaiyur temple. It is also submitted that though the petitioner has enclosed

 the necessary proof for all these unlawful acts along with his representations to

 the HR&CE Department, but no action is forthcoming and the bogus websites

 continue to proliferate unabated. Therefore, the learned counsel prayed this court

 for issuing appropriate direction to the official respondents. 6.1. Per contra, Mr. Veerakathiravan, learned Additional Advocate

 General appearing for the respondent authorities submitted that Arulmighu

 Amirthakadeswarar Temple, Thirukadaiyur, Mayiladuthurai District, is

 administered by Sri-la-sri Dharmapuram Adheenakarthar in the capacity of

 Hereditary Trustee under the control of the HR&CE Department. This temple is

 renowned for performing parihara homams such as Sashtiaptha Poorthi, Bhima

 Ratha Shanti and Sathabhishekam. This temple is thronged by people from the

 length and breadth of the country to perform spiritual activities. Taking

 advantage of the staunch belief of the worshipers to perform the religious

 ceremonies in the temple, several spurious websites were created by unknown

 persons depicting themselves as part of the temple administration and they 18/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 collected money from the devotees for various services to be rendered, without

 the knowledge of the temple administration. After coming to know about the

 same, the Commissioner of HR&CE Department, in his Circular bearing R.C.

 No.57136/2021 P1 dated 12.04.2022 has instructed all the temples under the

 control of the Department, to close down such spurious websites and create an

 authorised and dedicated website for the temple through National Informatics

 Centre (NIC) to avoid hacking and deception. Such a circular was issued as per section 116(2) (x) of the HR & CE Act and Rule 5(A) of the Collection of

 Income and Incurring of Expenditure Rules made thereunder. Thus, according to

 the learned counsel, all necessary steps have been taken for prevention of

 improper collection and to retrieve the amount collected unauthorisedly by the

 private individuals using the name of the temples. 6.2. The learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the

 respondent authorities also submitted that an official website viz.,

 Thirukadaiyurabiramitemple.org is being maintained by the temple

 administration and wide publicity has been given to the devotees and the general

 public at large. It is also submitted that on the basis of the complaint given by

 the petitioner against TRV. Ramalinga Gurukkal / fifth respondent in WP (MD)

 No. 23410 of 2022, a notice bearing R.C. No.8448/2022 C.1 dated 11.10.2022 19/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 came to be issued to the hereditary trustee of the temple calling upon him to

 submit action taken report. In response, it was submitted that the administration

 of Arulmighu Amirthakadeswarar Temple has given a complaint to the

 Superintendent of Police (Cyber Crime) Mayiladuthurai on 16.09.2022

 requesting to take appropriate action against those who have unauthorisedly

 created fake websites and to retrieve the amount so far generated by them,

 besides lodging a complaint on 22.09.2022 to the Inspector of Police, Poraiyur

 Police Station, Mayiladuthurai in this regard. Thus, according to the learned

 Additional Advocate General, appropriate action has already been taken by the

 official respondents and the allegation of the petitioners that the official

 respondents remained as a mute spectator is baseless. 6.3. It is further submitted by the learned Additional Advocate General

 appearing for the respondent authorities that the HR&CE Department has

 appointed a Fit Person for Sri Markandeya Temple, who is taking care of the

 administration of the temple. The temple administration is taking all necessary

 steps to curb illegalities in the matter of performance of poojas and other

 ceremonies in the temple inter alia to ensure hassle free facilities for the

 devotees. A specific provision has been made in the official Website where the

 devotees can book for marriage ceremonies on a particular date and time slot 20/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 will be fixed. Bookings made by the devotees through physical mode will be

 gradually stopped. Therefore, the learned Additional Advocate General

 submitted that the official respondents are taking all steps that are necessary to

 curb the middlemen from swaying the devotees through bogus websites; and

 that, they are also periodically monitoring the nature of duties performed by the

 Priests / Gurukkals / Archakars in the temple. 7. The learned counsel appearing for the fourth respondent in

 WP(MD)No.23671 of 2022 submitted that the temple administration has already

 created an official website through HR&CE Department, in the name of the

 temple viz., https://srirangamranganathar.hrce.tn.gov.in/ for the convenience of

 the devotees / public, who offer contributions / donations to the temple; and that,

 they have displayed the history of the temple, archaeological importance,

 darshan timings, festival details, etc., through their website

 “www.srirangam.org”. It is further submitted that based on the representation

 submitted by the petitioner, the Executive Officer of Arulmighu

 Aranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam, made a complaint dated 20.10.2022 to

 the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime Wing, Tiruchirapalli,

 requesting to close the unauthorised websites opened in the name of the temple

 forthwith and to recover the proceeds received thereunder. 21/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022 8. Mr.Rajesh Kanna, learned counsel for the fifth respondent in WP(MD)

 No.23410 of 2022 submitted that Sri Amirthakadeshwarar Temple,

 Thirukadiyur, comes under the control of the Dharmapuram Adheenam headed

 by His Holiness Sri Masilamani Desiga Gnanasambandha Swamigal; and that,

 Arulmigu Markandeswaraswamy Temple at T.Manalmedu Village is a private

 temple managed by the ancestors of the fifth respondent and now, by the fifth

 respondent and his family as its Hereditary Trustee. The learned counsel further

 submitted that the petitioner has made out false allegations in the writ petition

 and that, based on his representation dated 14.09.2022, the fourth respondent has

 passed an order appointing a Fit Person (Thakkar) to Sri Arulmigu

 Markandeswaraswamy Temple, vide proceedings in Se.Mu.Na.Ka.No.

 8448/2022/E1 dated 18.10.2022. According to the learned counsel, the fifth

 respondent family is the hereditary trustee of the temple and that, the fifth

 respondent made an application to the fourth respondent to appoint him as the

 Hereditary Trustee of the temple as he is the next in line to his deceased father

 Sri T.R.Viswanatha Gurukkal. Stating so, the learned counsel prayed for a

 direction to the fourth respondent to dispose of the said representation. 22/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022 9. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for all the parties and also

 perused the materials available on record, including the photographs depicting

 the websites created by third parties in the name (s) of various temple (s) and

 also services offered therein. 10. Both these writ petitions have been filed complaining that some third

 parties, who are in no way connected with the administration of the temples,

 have created spurious websites depicting the same as official websites and are

 collecting money from the devotees for offering various services / religious

 activities in the temples without knowledge of the temple administration. The

 petitioners' grievance is that by doing so, the third parties garner huge money,

 but what they pay to the temples, is a pittance. Thus, through such unauthorised

 and fake websites, the impersonator interferes with the administration of the

 temples indirectly, thereby causing huge loss to the revenue of the temples

 across the State. In order to buttress the same, the petitioners have furnished the

 particulars of bogus websites, phone numbers of contact persons relating to such

 websites, probable income generated by providing services, such as,

 accommodation, catering, darshan, poojas/ceremonies in the temples, etc. at a

 hefty price, in the form of typed set of papers. It is also stated by the petitioners

 that the persons, who create such unauthorised and fake websites would 23/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 definitely have a link with the archakars and officers of the temples, without

 whose assistance, they cannot render any service to the customers. He also

 submitted that some of the archakars, who have not been authorized by the

 administration, are entering the temple to perform poojas. Therefore, the

 petitioners in unison prayed for appropriate direction to the respondent

 authorities to close all the unauthorised and fake websites of third parties created

 in the name of the temple(s) across the State, so that the entire religious activities

 such as pooja, abhishegam, religious ceremonies etc., must be offered, controlled

 and administered only by the administration of the temple(s) concerned and to

 recover the proceeds received thereunder. In WP(MD) No.23410 of 2022, the

 petitioner specifically pleaded that the Priests / Gurukkals / Archakars of

 Arulmighu Amirthakadeswarar Temple have swayed the devotees visiting the

 Amirthakadeswarar temple to also visit Sri Markandeya temple by

 misrepresenting the history of the same. Though the petitioners made

 representations to the respondent authorities to take appropriate action against

 those illegal and fake websites run by the third parties in the name of the

 temple(s) / deities, nothing moved. Hence, the present public interest litigations. 11. Undoubtedly, creating bogus / fake websites is an offence and the

 same is punishable under section 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000. 24/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 As per Section 23 of the HR& CE Act , the Commissioner of HR&CE

 Department is empowered to exercise general superintendence and control over

 the administration of temples and religious endowments. Therefore, in pursuance

 of the powers to make Rules for proper collection of income by the religious

 institutions conferred in section 116(2)(x) , he can issue instructions to all the

 temples under the control of the department to create authorised and

 authenticated websites for temples through National Informatics Centre, which

 will provide authenticity to the websites run by the temples and help in curbing

 the bogus ones. But, no effective steps have been taken by the respondent

 authortities. Taking note of the same and considering the importance of the issue

 involved herein, this court earlier directed the learned counsel appearing for the

 respondent authorities to verify the allegations raised by the petitioners and file a

 detailed report in the next date of hearing. 12. The learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the

 respondent authorities filed a status report of the third respondent in WP(MD)

 No.23410 of 2022, wherein, it is inter alia stated that steps are being taken to

 revamp the existing websites in the name of the temple and adequate publicity is

 given regarding the existence of official websites of the temple to ensure that the

 devotees directly contact the temple administration, offer donations, make 25/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 bookings for various kinds of homams, poojas, abhishegams etc. that the website

 will be made fully functional within a period of three months. The status report

 further proceeds to state that illegal websites opened by the third parties will be

 shut down with the assistance of the Cyber Crime authorities. After closure of

 the bogus websites, the cyber space will be periodically monitored to ensure the

 continuance of existence of the website of the temple alone. Referring to the

 steps taken by the temple administration, it is stated that complaints dated

 01.03.2020 and 16.09.2020 have been lodged before the Superintendent of

 Police, (Cyber Crime), Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai with a specific request

 to take necessary action against the persons running the illegal websites in the

 name of the temple and to shutdown the same. It is also stated in the status report

 that the presence of touts will be stopped in the temple and the Temple

 administration will install boards with relevant information at all vantage points

 inside and outside the temple premises so that the devotees can be made aware

 of the actual fee to be paid. The devotees are also asked to make police

 complaint, if touts continue to harass them. The devotees are also requested to

 make their offerings only in the temple hundials and also in the payment

 gateway provided in the official website. Further, the service of the Archakars

 will be regularised and the 12 Archakars who are engaged for the services in the

 temple will be made to submit bio-metric attendance to effectively regularise and 26/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 monitor their functioning. That apart, a Fit Person has been appointed to Sri

 Markandeya Temple, Mayiladuthurai and he is looking after the administration

 of the said temple. 13. Furthermore, it is seen from the circular issued by the Commissioner

 of HR&CE Department, that instructions have been given to close all the private

 websites within a period of one week and to furnish all the information relating

 to the temples to the devotees / public through ITMS portal by NIC, in order to

 avoid the issue of hacking, failing which, appropriate action will be initiated

 against the official(s) concerned departmentally. Thus, it is brought to the

 knowledge of this court that the respondents are taking steps to stop the

 illegalities and properly account the money and donations collected from the

 devotees, besides initiate appropriate proceedings against the third parties as

 well as the officials / archakars of the temples, who are responsible for creation

 of such illegal websites. 14. The archakars in every temple render a very important service by

 performing rituals. Even a staunch devotee cannot enter the sanctorum, but only

 an archakar is permitted to go into the sanctorum, touch and perform the

 sanctum. A devotee, completely trusts the archakars when special rituals are

 performed and leave the temple with a sense of satisfaction of having had the 27/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 spiritual benefit, that his prayer has reached the deity. It is not out of place to

 mention here that a person cannot become an archakar unless he is qualified in

 all the agamas and Thirumurais. The Apex Court in Seshammal v. State of

 Tamil Nadu [(1972) 2 SCC 11], has summarised the importance of archakars,

 and the belief of the devotees. Therefore, the role of archakars or priest cannot

 be undermined and they occupy a very significant position in worship. The

 archakars, by their role serve not only the temples, but also the deities by serving

 the devotees. Every ritual performed by them in the temple is as an employee of

 the temple alone and not in their independent capacity. Even if it is in their

 independent capacity, it is only the temple authorities, who would have the right

 to fix the charges to be paid to such archakars of the temple, if the rituals are to

 be performed within the temple premises. The Trust imposed by them is

 immense that a devotee performing a regular or a special ritual, does not ask any

 questions. Every special functions like marriage, sashti aptha purthi, Ukra Radha

 Shanti, Beema Radha Shanti, Sathabishekam within the precints of the temple

 are based on the belief that the performance of such functions there would bring

 in the blessings of the deity. Such being the case, the archakars, as employees of

 the temples, are bound to perform the same at the rates fixed by the temple

 management. They have no right to capitalize the faith of the devotees by

 diverting the income of the temple, by creation of websites, as if they are 28/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 propounded by the temple itself. Apart from that, it is evident that these websites

 are not the official websites of the temples and the amount collected towards the

 festivals is not directly remitted to the temples. Rather, it is the touts, who collect

 the money and remit paltry sums to the temples or the math. Such practices are

 feeding the atheists to criticize the rituals and in-turn the deity. 15. It is needless to say that the property of the temples or the mutts not

 only tangible but also intangible property. The word "endowment" in Section

 6(17) includes all the property belonging to the temple and also includes the

 temple. The very name of the temple and its websites are intangible assets. The

 devotees visit the website of the temples to know about the various services

 offered by them, the cost, timings, etc. While so, by impersonation, various

 websites are created in the name of the temples or by impliedly projecting to be

 created under the authorization without the permission of the HR&CE

 department or the mutts’ to attract the devotees for performance of different

 poojas in the temples at the rates and cost fixed by archakars in collusion with

 the touts. The Courts, in general have been dealing with the menace of fake or

 illegal websites, by which various conning activities and piracy are committed.

 The prohibitory orders or in other words, the orders of injunction, in many cases

 do not resolve the issue as the perpetrators would continue to operate with mirror 29/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 websites or from different IP address or URLs. Hence, it is necessary to follow a

 mechanism, not only to prevent the creation and utilization of such illegal

 websites, but also to permanently and continuously prevent such websites from

 popping up. 16. At this juncture, it will be relevant to refer to the twin concepts of quia

 timet and dynamic injunction, which can act as an effective tool to block such

 websites. Quia timet, in latin means “because he fears”. The doctrine is used

 when there is a real danger of some right being violated and the Courts,

 considering the right of the other person, who is likely to suffer and equity, grant

 the relief of injunction or in other words, a preventive order. The doctrine is

 predominantly used in matters relating to intellectual property rights. 17. The evolving legal jurisprudence in the protection of intellectual

 property rights has resulted in the evolution of the doctrine of Dynamic

 Injunction order, by which, the necessity to approach the Court time and again

 for preventive measures is thwarted by issuance of such an order, which meets

 all the contingencies in future. The concept of dynamic injunction, with regard to

 the piracy rights application by the Courts of various countries have been

 discussed in detail in the judgment in UTV Software Communication Ltd and

 others v. 1337X.To and others [2019 SCC OnLine Del 8002 : (2019) 78 PTC 30/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 375]. Applying the same to the present case, this Court is of the view that a

 dynamic preventive order is necessitated because of the sheer involvement of the

 number of temples, touts and illegal websites that either provide links to

 webpages or URLs created by third parties, impersonating as that of the official

 temple sites. 18. As already stated above, temples are places for worship visited by a

 host of citizens of varied cultures to get the eternal peace and harmony and it

 cannot be permitted to be turned as a platform for generating profit. The temples

 offer certain services to devotees for a nominal fee, which will be utilised for

 maintenance of the temples, including salary to the staff. Therefore, it is high

 time that the websites opened in the name of the temples by the third parties

 unauthorisedly to garner huge money, be closed and thereafter, it must be

 ensured that other than the official website of the temples, there shall not be any

 other website in existence to render any sort of service to the devotees. The

 services rendered by the administration of the temples to the devotees shall not

 be permitted to be done by any third party to secure unlawful gain. Though it

 was stated by the respondent authorities that they have taken all necessary steps

 to stop such illegalities, the status report was filed only in WP(MD) No.23410 of

 2022 relating to Arulmighu Amirthakadeswarar Temple, Thirukadaiyur, 31/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 Mayiladuthurai District. There is no whisper about the steps taken against the

 illegal websites created in respect of other temples across the State. In such

 circumstances, this Court finds it necessary to issue certain directions in order to

 put an end to such illegalities and to protect the rights of the temples. 19. Accordingly, the following directions are issued to the respondent

 authorities: In the absence of tickets/receipts issued by temple / Aadheenam authorities, no

 one should be permitted to perform any religious activities in the temples. The

 amounts collected shall be properly accounted and audited by the authorities

 concerned. Only the archakars, photographers and guides authorized by the

 Aadheenam / officials shall be permitted inside the temple upon registering them

 with proper identity cards and that, the third parties and touts must be prevented.

 Necessary civil and criminal action must be initiated against them forthwith for

 any violation in this regard. (x) The procedures preceding the religious ceremonies in all the temples

 across the State have to be streamlined. The Commissioner of HR & CE

 Department shall monitor the religious activities performed in the temples and

 take immediate action, if there is any illegality in the temple administration. A

 systematic, transparent and smooth functioning of the religious activities of the

 temples, have to be devised similar to that of Thirumala Devasthanam, 35/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 Sabarimala, etc. (xi) The Fit Person appointed for Sri Markandeya Temple, shall ensure

 that all the receipts and expenditures of the said Temple is duly accounted for

 and that the services of the temple have to be offered only through an authorised

 website or in any other manner as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of

 HR & CE Department. (xii) The status report be filed by the officials of the HR&CE Department

 and Aadheenam authorities before this court within a period of three months. 20. Both these writ petitions stand disposed of, with the aforesaid

 directions. It is open to the 5th respondent in W.P(MD) No.23410/2022 to work

 out his remedy with regard to the claim of hereditary trustee, as per law. No

 costs. Post the matters before this Bench after three months “for reporting

 compliance”. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department
 Uthamar Gandhi Road
 Nungambakkam
 Chennai - 600 034 2. The Joint Commissioner
 Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department
 Thepakula Theru
 Behind Kariya Maleeswarar Temple
 Thiruvanaikaval
 Trichy - 620 005 3. Dharmapuram Adheenkarthar
 represented by its General Manager
 Dharmapuram Adheenam
 Dharmapuram, Mayiladuthurai - 609 311 4. Joint Commissioner
 Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department
 Samantharkulam, Sithatharkadu
 Mayiladuthurai - 609 003 5. The Commissioner
 Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department
 Uthamar Gandhi Road
 Nungambakkam
 Chennai - 600 034 6. The Assistant Commissioner/Executive Officer (HR&CE)
 Arulmighu Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple
 Madurai - 625 001 7. The Assistant Commissioner/Executive Officer (HR&CE)
 Arulmighu Subramaniya Swamy Temple 38/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 Payaniyar Maligai Salai, Tiruchendur
 Tuticorin - 628 215 8. The Assistant Commissioner/Executive Officer (HR&CE)
 Arulmighu Aranganathaswamy Temple
 Srirangam, Tiruchirapalli - 620 006 9. The Joint Commissioner (HR&CE)
 315, Secretary Office
 North Giri Street
 Palani, Dindigul 624 601 10. The Secretary
 Ministry of Electronics and information Technology
 Government of India
 Electronics Niketan
 No.6, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road
 New Delhi - 110 003 11. The Secretary
 Ministry of Home Affairs
 North Block
 New Delhi - 110 001 12. The Additional Director General of Police
 Cyber Crime Branch
 No.3, Dr. Natesan Road
 Police Training College Campus, 3rd Floor
 Cyber Crime Wing, Ashok Nagar
 Chennai - 600 083 13. The Additional Chief Secretary to the Government
 Home, Prohibition and Excise Department
 Secretariat, Fort St. George
 Chennai - 600 009 39/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410
 and 23671 of 2022

 R. MAHADEVAN, J. and
 J.SATHYA NARAYANA PRASAD, J. rsh

 Pre-delivery Order in
 W.P.(MD)Nos.23410 and 23671 of 2022

 31.01.2023 40/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis