1. The prayer in the Criminal Writ Petition under Article 226 of

 the Constitution of India is for seeking transfer of investigation to CBI

 (respondent No.8) in FIR No.25 dated 16.06.2025 (Annexure P-3) under

 Sections 318(4) of BNS, 2023 and Section 66(D) of the Information

 Technology Act, 2000, registered at Police Station Cyber Crime, Jalandhar

 City, Jalandhar. 2. The learned Senior counsel for the petitioner contends that in

 view of the directions issued by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Suo Moto

 Writ Petition No.3/2025, wherever it is brought to light that an FIR under

 the provisions of the IT Act is registered pertaining to identified cyber KUSUM crimes, the appropriate State Government and Union Territories shall 2026.03.18 12:09 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document PHHC Chandigarh CRWP-13572-2025 -2- accord sanction under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment

 Act, 1946 so as to enable the CBI to take over the investigation. In the

 instant case, the case of the petitioner is on a similar footing. Therefore, an

 appropriate direction be issued by this Court in terms of the order of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court. 3. The learned counsel for the State, on the other hand, contends

 that the investigation stands concluded and the report under Section

 173(2) Cr.P.C. (Section 193 of BNSS) stands submitted. He, however,

 concedes that Clause (iv) of Para 6 of the order of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court (Annexure P-11) would apply to the case of the petitioner as well. 4. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. 5. Para 6 of the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court (Annexure

 P-11) is reproduced hereinbelow:- 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 shall
 be accorded so that the CBI can undertake a
 comprehensive action in respect of the identified
 cybercrimes, on a pan India basis. (v) The CBI is further permitted to identify the police
 officers from different state police forces or technical
 experts, or persons having domain expertise, to be
 associated as members of the investigating team for
 technical aid. (vi) Having regard to the magnitude of the crime and the
 fact that the places from where such crimes are committed
 are often beyond the territorial jurisdiction of India, we
 direct the CBI to submit a request to Interpol and
 coordinate with the agency to lay its hands on the
 cybercrime havens operating from different jurisdictions. (vii) All telecom service providers are also directetd to
 implement the directions issued by the Department of
 Telecommunications stringently, especially with respect to
 the issuance of SIM cards. The material on record so far
 has reveals an alarming, negligent, and irresponsible
 attitude by these telecom service providers in issuing SIM
 cards, particularly the allocation of multiple SIM cards to
 a single name. In this regard, we direct the Department of
 Telecommunications to submit a proposal for the Court's
 consideration that may need to be implemented by all
 telecom service providers to prevent the misuse of SIM
 cards. (viii) The State Governments and Union Territories are
 directed to ensure expeditious establishment and
 operationalisation of Regional and State Cybercrime
 Coordination Centres, and in case there is any impediment KUSUM 2026.03.18 12:09
I attest to the accuracy and being faced by them, they shall be at liberty to apprise this
integrity of this document
PHHC Chandigarh CRWP-13572-2025 -4- court at the earliest. There is no gainsaying that the
 establishment of the Regional and State Cybercrime
 Coordination Centres allied with the Central Government
 Nodal Centre is essential for a coordinated, swift, timely
 and effective preventive measures against cybercrime." 6. A perusal of Clause (iv) of Para 6 would reveal that all the

 State Governments and Union Territories have been directed that

 wherever an FIR has been registered for investigation under the penal

 laws along with Information Technology Act, 2000 , sanction under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 shall be

 accorded so that the CBI can take over the investigation on a pan India

 basis. 7. In view of the above, the State of Punjab-respondent No.1 is

 directed to hand over the investigation of FIR No.25 dated 16.06.2025

 (Annexure P-3) under Sections 318(4) of BNS, 2023 and Section 66(D) of

 the Information Technology Act, 2000, registered at Police Station Cyber

 Crime, Jalandhar City, Jalandhar to the CBI forthwith. 8. Disposed of. 9. Needless to say, in case the petitioner seeks any relief, he is at

 liberty to approach the Court of competent jurisdiction to avail his

 remedies in accordance with law. 10. All the pending miscellaneous applications, if any, stand

 disposed of.