% 23.09.2024 CRL.M.A. 26699/2024 1. Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. Application stands disposed of. W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 1 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:09 3. The present petition has been filed under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India r/w Section 528 BNSS on behalf of the petitioner
 for issuance of appropriate writ, order or direction in the nature of
 Mandamus thereby directing the respondent Nos. 1 to 5 to perform its
 statutory duties as per law of the land in reference to the documents
 provided in the present writ petition or any other writ, order of
 direction to the respondent to initiate inquiry against the alleged
 offender involved in tax evasion. 4. The petitioner has made several allegations against a real-estate
 company regarding Income Tax evasions, VAT evasions,
 encroachment on Government Lands, and corruption. The allegations
 made in the writ petition are too wide and general in nature. It is also
 pertinent to mention that many of such alleged irregularity/illegality
 have been beyond the jurisdiction of this Court. The petitioner has also
 chosen to not to implead the alleged wrongdoer and has alleged that the
 respondents have not taken action and they may be directed to initiate
 proceedings as per law. 5. With the petition, the petitioner has filed several documents which
 seem to be mere printouts and have not been authenticated nor are they
 certified or true copies. 6. Before proceeding further it is pertinent to mention here that when the
 petition was taken up on the last date of hearing certain learned
 counsels appeared for private respondents and submitted that they have
 been served with the petition impleading them as respondents.
 However, in the present writ petition no private party has been
 impleaded. In this regard, the petitioner has filed an affidavit dated W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 2 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:09
 13.09.2024 stating therein that he had filed the writ petition including
 private parties as a respondent on 09.08.2024. However, subsequently
 on the objections raised by the Registry of this Court in the writ
 petition and after consultation it was found that the prayer is only
 against the investigating agency to discharge their duties in accordance
 with law. 7. The petitioner submitted that therefore the writ petition was re-filed on
 23.08.2024. In the re-filed petition the private respondents were not
 impleaded. 8. Sh. Ashwani Mata, learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted
 that the present petition does not fall within the category of PIL as
 prescribed under the "Delhi High Court Public Interest Litigation
 Rules, 2010". 9. Learned senior counsel further submitted that it is a case where the big
 companies have indulged themselves in filing false tax returns. Learned
 senior counsel submitted that though there are certain allegations which
 pertains to the jurisdiction beyond the jurisdiction of this Court.
 However, the Court may certainly proceed in regard to the illegal
 activities allegedly having been committed within the jurisdiction of
 this Court. 10. Learned senior counsel has fairly submitted that before filing of the
 writ petition before this Court no private complaint was filed before
 any Court/authorities. It has also been submitted that no complaint has
 also been filed with the department against whom the present petition
 has been filed. Learned senior counsel submitted that the present
 complaint discloses serious fraud having been committed upon the W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 3 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:10
 public exchequer and, therefore, immediate intervention of this Court is
 required. Learned senior counsel submitted that the petitioner being the
 citizen of this country has a right to knock the doors of this Court as
 there is abuse and misuse of the public exchequer. Learned senior
 counsel submitted that the respondents have failed to take any action.
 Learned senior counsel has relied upon S.P. Gupta vs. Union of India
 and Anr. 1981 Supp SCC 87, A.R. Antulay vs. RS Nayak and Anr
 ( 1988) 2 SCC 602 and Lok Prahari vs. State of U.P. and Ors. (2016) 8
 SCC 389. Sh. Ashwani Mata, learned senior counsel submitted that
 there has been no concealment. Learned senior counsel candidly
 admitted that there may be pre-mature filing of the present petition. 11. Sh. Anupam S. Sharma, learned Special PP for CBI on advance notice
 submitted that the present petition is an abuse of the process of law.
 Learned counsel submitted that the petitioner was a senior employee of
 the alleged Company and is trying to settle his score by virtue of the
 present petition. Learned special counsel submitted that mostly, the
 prayers in the petition does not fall within the territorial jurisdiction of
 this Court. Sh. Anupam S. Sharma, learned Special PP further
 submitted that the allegations are absolutely vague in nature. Learned
 counsel submitted that the petitioner cannot be stated to be an
 aggrieved person. Learned counsel submitted that no complaint has
 been received from the petitioner in the CBI and therefore the writ
 petition filed without any such complaint is pre-mature and is liable to
 be dismissed. 12. Sh. Ravi Praskash, learned CGSC for the ED submitted that the
 averments made in the petition do not disclose any predicate offence, W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 4 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:10
 and therefore, the petition is liable to be dismissed. 13. Mr. Amit Tiwari, learned CGSC appearing on behalf of SFIO and Ms.
 Amita Singh, learned counsel for SEBI have also submitted that no
 complaint was filed with the department before invoking the
 jurisdiction of this Court. Learned counsel therefore, submitted that
 petition is liable to be dismissed outrightly. 14. Article 226 of the Constitution of India confers power on the Court to
 issue to any person or authority including in appropriate cases any writ
 for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part-III or for any
 other purpose. Though the discretion conferred under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India are very vide in nature but it has to be exercised in
 circumspect manner. There has to be some right vested in the person
 invoking the jurisdiction of the Court. In absence of any right being
 infringed, prejudiced or adversary affected, the Court would be slow in
 invoking such jurisdiction. 15. It is also a settled proposition that in order to invoke the jurisdiction
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the petitioner should
 ordinarily be a person who has a personal or individual right in the
 subject matter except in the writ petition in the nature of Habeas
 Corpus or Quo Warranto. 16. In Jasbhai Motibhai Desai vs. Roshan Kumar, Haji Bashir Ahmed &
 Ors. AIR 1976 SC 578 it was inter alia held that- 17. Furthermore, similar view was taken in Shirpal Bhati & Anr. vs. State
 of U.P. & Ors. ( 2020) 12 SCC 87 and K. Kumara Gupta vs. Sri
 Markendaya and Sri Omkareswara Swamy Temple & Ors (2022) 5
 SCC 710 whereby it was inter alia held that the petitioner must have a
 personal or individual right in the subject matter. However, a stranger
 can also invoke the jurisdiction of the Court, but he should have a
 substantial and genuine interest. It is a settled proposition that the
 individuals who interfere in the matter that do not concern them under
 the disguise of acting in public interest should be discouraged. The
 Court must verify the credentials of such litigants. The Court has to be
 cautious of such litigants, who under the guise and pretend of "Whistle
 Blower" may only be arm-twisting the private individuals or statutory
 bodies. The Court has also to be extra cautious because such
 mischievous and unscrupulous litigants may be abusing the process of
 the Court to settle their private scores. Such litigants try to take the
 benefit of huge backlog. In fact such bad case kill the good cases. 18. It is a settled proposition that if the petitioner has genuine reason to
 pursue the matter, and he has any equally efficacious remedies
 available. It would not be proper for this Court to entertain the petition
 which is based on mere unsubstantiated allegation and in particular
 coming through the person who does not seem to have come with clean
 hands. It is relevant to note that the petitioner in the entire writ petition
 has not disclosed that he was an employee of the real estate company W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 7 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:10
 and had been advising them. Mischievously, only in the list of dates the
 petitioner stated that he joined the private respondents and has been
 part of the top management for around 10 years. It is also relevant to
 note that in the writ petition the petitioner stated that the documents
 filed along with the petition are either obtained from public domain or
 through proper official channels only. However, the perusal of the
 annexures filed along with the writ petition reveals that none of the
 document is authenticated or a verified document. The documents are
 either the photocopies, emails or the photocopies of some
 communication written to the Government authorities. The petitioner in
 the writ petition has alleged that the real estate company has committed
 certain irregularities which fall within the ambit of tax evasion and
 corruption. Such kind of offences are very serious in nature and are to
 be probed by the investigating agencies with all discreetness and
 responsibility. It is a matter of record that the petitioner has not filed
 any complaint with the department. The petitioner as being stated
 above, only obliquely referred in the list of dates that he was an
 employee of such company. Therefore, people whose credentials are
 not verified cannot be given the opportunity to meddle into such affairs. 19. In Kunga Nima Lepcha and Other vs State of Sikkim and Others (2010) 4 SCC 513 wherein it was inter alia held as under: 20. It is a matter of record that the petitioner in this case has not
 approached the jurisdictional Court or the respondent department and
 has approached this Court directly by invoking the writ jurisdiction. It
 is true that alternative remedy is not an absolute bar to a writ petition,
 but it is equally well settled that if there is an alternative remedy the
 High Court should not ordinarily interfere. In Sakiri Vasu v. State of
 Uttar Pradesh and Ors. (2008) 2 SCC 409 the Supreme Court inter alia
 held that such practice of directly filing a writ ought not to be
 encouraged when an alternate remedy is available. 21. It is also relevant to note here that the allegations made in the present
 petition are all disputed questions of facts which cannot be examined in W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 10 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:10
 the writ jurisdiction. Recently, this court in Eliamma Sebastian vs.
 Delhi Development Authority & Others 2024 SCC OnLine Del 3112
 inter alia held that the principles of law governing entertaining of a writ
 petition under Article 226 of the Constitution are well settled and have
 been succinctly enunciated by the Supreme Court in Radha Krishan
 Industries v. State of Himachal Pradesh wherein para 27 reads as
 under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:10 Article 226 of the Constitution. This rule of exhaustion of
 statutory remedies is a rule of policy, convenience and
 discretion. 27.6. In cases where there are disputed questions of fact, the
 High Court may decide to decline jurisdiction in a writ
 petition. However, if the High Court is objectively of the
 view that the nature of the controversy requires the exercise
 of its writ jurisdiction, such a view would not readily be
 interfered with." 30. During the course of submissions the attention of the Court was invited
 to the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court passed on 04.03.2024 in
 Civil Appeal No. 1140 of 2023 titled as Gurinder Singh vs. Union Of
 India & Ors. wherein the question mark was put upon the credibility of
 the petitioner. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that in that case the credentials of petitioner Gurinder Singh was doubtful
 and the Supreme Court had imposed the cost upon Gurinder Singh. This Court has perused the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in Gurinder Singh (Supra ) , in that case Gurinder Singh had filed the
 subject appeal in which an application was moved for withdrawal of
 the same. During the proceedings appellant Gurinder Singh stated that
 the present appeal was filed at the instance of one Vivek Sehgal and
 Ramesh Sanka i.e., the present petitioner and they had misled him for
 their illegal monetary gain, to file several cases against the private
 respondents. The appellant also alleged that the said two persons are
 extortionists and blackmailers and with the intention to extort huge
 money from the respondent company had allured the appellant to file
 cases against the private respondents. In these circumstances, the Apex
 Court noted that having regard to the contents of the application, it W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 12 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:10
 clearly appeared that appellant Gurinder Singh knowingly fully well
 that the persons Vivek Sehgal and Ramesh Sanka i.e., the present
 petitioner were extortionists and blackmailers had filed the proceedings
 before the NGT and the present appeal at their instance. 31. In view of these proceedings it cannot be said that the credentials of the
 present petitioner were clear. Furthermore, this Court has noted that the
 petitioner was an employee of the company against which serious
 allegations have been made. However, neither in the writ petition nor in
 the affidavits this fact was disclosed. The petitioner only disclosed this
 fact obliquely in the list of dates. This is a serious concealment on the
 part of the petitioner and amounts bordering to playing fraud with the
 Court. 32. It is relevant to note that the judgments cited by learned senior counsel
 for the petitioner, Lok Prahari (Supra), S.P. Gupta (Supra) and AR
 Antulay (Supra) are respectfully distinguishable on the facts and
 circumstances of the case. It is pertinent to mention here that if the
 petitioner has actual, genuine interest to pursue the matter, which on
 the fact of it does not seem to be, he always has remedies available
 under the law and he could very well apprise the relevant authorities of
 any such wrong doings. The petitioner in the present case has made
 generalised averments which seem to be wild allegations at this stage.
 The forum of the Court cannot be misused to initiate the investigation.
 The Court is conscious of the fact that initiation of investigation is a
 serious act and has serious consequences. The alleged acts falls within
 the ambit of statuary offences and the departments have sufficient
 power to investigate such offence. The initiation of investigation falls W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 13 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:10
 within the ambit of the specific departments and it should be left to
 them unless and until there are exceptional and grave circumstances.
 The law also provides the Court of first instance to exercise its
 jurisdiction for initiating of proceedings on filing of the private
 complaint. 33. The jurisdiction of the High Court cannot be misused on mere
 unsubstantiated allegations. The Court has to be cautious that the writ
 jurisdiction should not be misused and abused by the unscrupulous
 litigants. Such jurisdiction cannot be allowed to be used for personal
 gain or any oblique consideration. The Court is required to filter out the
 frivolous petitions and ought to dismiss them with cost so that the
 message goes loud and clear that the petitions filed with oblique motive
 do not have approval of the Courts. 34. In view of the huge pendency, the Court cannot allow any unscrupulous
 person to waste, the precious time of the Courts and public money in
 order to get his private affairs settled in the matter. The jurisdiction can
 be used only when there is involvement of public interest or there are
 any exceptional circumstances. 35. The petitioner in the present case has invoked the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and despite the opportunity
 having been given; the petitioner has failed to satisfy the Court
 regarding its maintainability. 36. During the course of submissions, learned senior counsel for the
 petitioner sought permission to withdraw the present petition. However,
 this Court considers that granting permission to withdraw the petition
 with liberty, in such cases will only be encouraging the gross misuse W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 14 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:11
 and abuse of the process of law. 37. In view of the discussions made herein above, the present petition
 along with all the pending applications stands dismissed. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 SEPTEMBER 23, 2024
 AR/KR W.P.(CRL) 2718/2024 Page 15 of 15 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 12:10:11