The application filed by the petitioner by name
 ANSARI SABLU HAIDARALI, under Sec.451 and 457 of
 Cr.P.C., is hereby dismissed. Put up after final report. Sd/-23/4/2004
 XLV A.C.M.M., Bengaluru." The petitioner does not challenge this order, but seeks a direction

to de-freeze the account and seeks interim order of stay of

registration of the crime, both of which do not take him anywhere. Since the petitioner is the direct beneficiary of the receipt of 16 amount of `40/- lakhs from the hands of the complainant and seeks

to feign ignorance as to how it has come into the account, there is

lurking suspicion that he is also a part of cartel of online frauds. 8. Whether such freezement can happen of the accounts

which are only on the borders of lurking suspicion is considered by

the Apex Court in the case of TEESTA ATUL SETALVAD v. STATE

OF GUJARAT1 , as follows: ".... .... .... 15. The respondents, on the other hand, submit that the
 investigation is still in progress and the appellants have not
 given full cooperation to the investigating officer. Rather, the
 appellants have caused hurdles in the smooth progress of the
 investigation of the alleged crime. The record would reveal that
 proper procedure for seizure of the bank accounts was followed
 and that considering the nature of allegations in the FIR and the
 material gathered during the investigation thus far, would
 require elaborate investigation with regard to the subject-matter
 of the FIR. The High Court had elaborately analysed the material
 on record while considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory
 bail of the private appellants and prima facie found substance in
 the allegations against the appellants of misuse of funds
 received by them through various donors and that the
 appellants were not ready and willing to cooperate with the
 investigation. The respondents would submit that since the
 investigation is in progress and the material already gathered
 throws up circumstances which create suspicion of the
 commission of the alleged offence, therefore, it is imperative to
 continue the seizure of bank accounts until it is necessary and
 till the completion of the investigation. If the investigating 1 (2018) 2 SCC 372 17 officer eventually finds that the accounts are not tainted with
the crime, he would not hesitate to defreeze the same or to
exclude the untainted amounts. 16. We have heard Mr Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel
along with Ms Aparna Bhat, appearing for the appellants and Mr
Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor General along with Mr
Ajay Chokshi, appearing for the State of Gujarat. 17. The sweep and applicability of Section 102 of
the Code is no more res integra. That question has been
directly considered and answered in State of
Maharashtra v. Tapas D. Neogy [State of Maharashtra v. Tapas D. Neogy, (1999) 7 SCC 685: 1999 SCC (Cri)
1352]. The Court examined the question whether the
police officer investigating any offence can issue
prohibitory orders in respect of bank accounts in exercise
of power under Section 102 of the Code. The High Court , in that case , after analysing the provisions of Section 102
of the Code had opined that bank account of the accused
or of any relation of the accused cannot be held to be
"property" within the meaning of Section 102 of the
Code. Therefore, the investigating officer will have no
power to seize bank accounts or to issue any prohibitory
order prohibiting the operation of the bank account. This
Court noted that there were conflicting decisions of
different High Courts on this aspect and as the question
was seminal, it chose to answer the same. In para 6, this
Court noted thus : (SCC p. 691)

 "6. A plain reading of sub-section (1) of Section 102
 indicates that the police officer has the power to seize any
 property which may be found under circumstances creating
 suspicion of the commission of any offence. The legislature
 having used the expression "any property" and "any
 offence" have made the applicability of the provisions wide
 enough to cover offences created under any Act. But the
 two preconditions for applicability of Section 102(1) are that
 it must be "property" and secondly, in respect of the said
 property there must have been suspicion of commission of
 any offence. In this view of the matter the two further
 questions that arise for consideration are whether the bank
 account of an accused or of his relation can be said to be
 "property" within the meaning of sub-section (1) of Section 18 102 CrPC and secondly, whether circumstances exist,
 creating suspicion of commission of any offence in relation
 to the same." 18. After analysing the decisions of different High Courts,
this Court in para 12, expounded the legal position thus : (SCC
pp. 694-95)

 "12. Having considered the divergent views taken by
 different High Courts with regard to the power of seizure
 under Section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and
 whether the bank account can be held to be "property"
 within the meaning of the said Section 102(1), we see no
 justification to give any narrow interpretation to the
 provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code . It is well known
 that corruption in public offices has become so rampant that
 it has become difficult to cope up with the same. Then again
 the time consumed by the courts in concluding the trials is
 another factor which should be borne in mind in interpreting
 the provisions of Section 102 of the Criminal Procedure
 Code and the underlying object engrafted therein, inasmuch
 as if there can be no order of seizure of the bank account of
 the accused then the entire money deposited in a bank
 which is ultimately held in the trial to be the outcome of the
 illegal gratification, could be withdrawn by the accused and
 the courts would be powerless to get the said money which
 has any direct link with the commission of the offence
 committed by the accused as a public officer. We are,
 therefore, persuaded to take the view that the bank account
 of the accused or any of his relations is "property" within
 the meaning of Section 102 of the Criminal Procedure Code
 and a police officer in course of investigation can seize or
 prohibit the operation of the said account if such assets
 have direct links with the commission of the offence for
 which the police officer is investigating into. ... In the
 aforesaid premises, we have no hesitation to come to the
 conclusion that the High Court of Bombay [Chandrashekar
 Ramprakash Agarwal v. State of Maharashtra , 1997 SCC
 OnLine Bom 632] committed error in holding that the police
 officer could not have seized the bank account or could not
 have issued any direction to the bank officer, prohibiting the
 account of the accused from being operated upon." After this decision, there is no room to countenance the
challenge to the action of seizure of bank account of any person 19 which may be found under circumstances creating suspicion of
the commission of any offence. 19. In the present case, FIR has been registered at
least against three private appellants, naming them as
accused. CJP Trust has not been named as an accused in
the FIR. But the investigation thus far, according to the
respondents, reveals that Teesta Atul Setalvad and Javed
Anand are actively associated with the said Trusts and
have carried out transactions which may be found under
circumstances suspicious of the commission of the
alleged offence. That is still a matter of investigation. For
the present, the investigating officer is of the view that
there are certain circumstances emerging from the
transactions done from these bank accounts which create
suspicion of the commission of an offence. It is on that
belief he has exercised his discretion to issue directions
to seize the bank accounts pertaining to CJP Trust. 20. As regards the procedure for issuing
instructions to freeze the bank accounts, it is noticed that
the same has been followed by giving intimation to the
Magistrate concerned on 21-11-2014 as required in terms
of Section 102 of the Code. There is nothing in Section
102 which mandates giving of prior notice to the account-
holder before the seizure of his bank account. The
Magistrate after noticing that the principle stated by the
Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Shashikant D.
Karnik v. State of Maharashtra [Shashikant D. Karnik v.
State of Maharashtra, 2008 Cri LJ 148 (Bom)] has been
overruled in terms of the Full Bench judgment of the
Bombay High Court in Vinodkumar Ramachandran
Valluvar [Vinodkumar Ramachandran Valluvar v. State of
Maharashtra , 2011 SCC OnLine Bom 402 : 2011 Cri LJ
2522] , rightly negatived that contention. The Full Bench
of the Bombay High Court has expounded that Section
102 does not require issuance of notice to a person
before or simultaneously with the action attaching his
bank account. In Adarsh Coop. Housing Society
Ltd. v. Union of India [Adarsh Coop. Housing Society
Ltd. v. Union of India, 2011 SCC OnLine Bom 974 : 2012
Cri LJ 520] , the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court
once again considered the issue and rejected the 20 argument that prior notice to the account-holder was
required to be given before seizure of his bank account.
It also noted that the bank account need not be only of
the accused but it can be any account creating suspicion
about the commission of an offence. The view so taken
commends us. 21. In Jayendra Saraswathy Swamigal [Jayendra
Saraswathy Swamigal (2) v. State of T.N. , (2005) 8 SCC 771 : In that context, it observed that the power vested under Section
102 of the Code cannot be stretched to irrelevant matters, to
extremes and to a breaking point. The power must be exercised
cautiously, failing which, the discretion exercised by the
authority would be tainted with arbitrariness. In para 23, the
Court observed thus: (SCC p. 791)

 "23. ... Again, the action of the State in directing the
 banks to freeze all the 183 accounts of the Mutt in the
 purported exercise of the power conferred under Section
 102 CrPC, which had affected the entire activities of the
 Mutt and other associated trusts and endowments only on
 the ground that the petitioner, who is the head of the Mutt,
 has been charge-sheeted for entering into a conspiracy to
 murder Sankararaman, leads to an inference that the State
 machinery is not only interested in securing conviction of
 the petitioner and the other co-accused but also to bring to
 a complete halt the entire religious and other activities of
 the various trusts and endowments and the performance of
 pooja and other rituals in the temples and religious places in
 accordance with the custom and traditions and thereby
 create a fear psychosis in the minds of the people. This may
 deter anyone from appearing in court and give evidence in
 defence of the accused." 22. The Court in Jayendra Saraswathy Swamigal case [ Jayendra Saraswathy Swamigal (2) v. State of T.N. ,
(2005) 8 SCC 771: (2006) 1 SCC (Civ) 1] did not lay down as a 21 proposition that it is impermissible to freeze multiple bank
accounts, even though circumstances emanating from the
nature of transactions effected from the bank accounts
concerned and the conduct of the account-holders created
suspicion of the commission of an offence. The Court while
directing lifting of seizure of bank accounts had noted that the
Mutt could not be paralysed by freezing of all its bank accounts
in the guise of a direction issued under Section 102 of the Code.
Further, the continuation of the seizure of all the bank accounts
even after completion of the investigation of the case and filing
of charge-sheet was unwarranted. 23. In M.T. Enrica Lexie [M.T. Enrica Lexie v. Doramma ,
(2012) 6 SCC 760 : (2012) 3 SCC (Civ) 1024: (2012) 3 SCC
(Cri) 309] , the Court noted in para 7 that agencies had
completed their respective investigations and vessel was seized
in exercise of power under Section 102 of the Code. In para 16,
the Court noted the concession given by the counsel for the
Government that the vessel was not the object of the crime or
the circumstances which came up in the course of investigation
that create suspicion of the commission of any offence. In that
case, it was alleged that while the fishing boat was sailing
through Arabian Sea, indiscriminate firing was opened from the
vessel in question, as a result of which two innocent fishermen,
who were on board, died. The counsel for the State had also
conceded that the vessel was no longer required in connection
with the offence in question. Indeed, in para 14, the Court made
the following observations : (SCC p. 765)

 "14. The police officer in course of investigation can
 seize any property under Section 102 if such property is
 alleged to be stolen or is suspected to be stolen or is the
 object of the crime under investigation or has direct link
 with the commission of offence for which the police officer is
 investigating into. A property not suspected of commission
 of the offence which is being investigated into by the police
 officer cannot be seized. Under Section 102 of the Code, the
 police officer can seize such property which is covered by
 Section 102(1) and no other." These observations are in no way different from the proposition
expounded in Tapas D. Neogy [State of Maharashtra v. Tapas D.
Neogy, (1999) 7 SCC 685: 1999 SCC (Cri) 1352]. 24. Keeping these principles in mind and the material on
record, it is noticed that the prosecution has alleged that the
two Trusts are run by the private appellants and other accused.
They were actively involved in collecting huge funds as donation
in the name of providing legal assistance to the 2002 Gujarat
Riot Victims. Such donations received by the two Trusts had
never reached the victims, the members of the Gulberg Society
in respect of which grievance has been made in the subject FIR.
Further, substantial discrepancies have been noticed from the
bank accounts, copies of audited account statements and
balance sheet. The final account did not tally with the accounts,
as submitted. The appellants did not offer credible explanation
in that regard, much less satisfactory. According to the
respondents, the conduct of the appellants of non-cooperation
during the investigation strengthens the suspicion of the
commission of an offence. They provided incorrect information.
It is also a case of non-disclosure and suppression of material
facts. These circumstances create suspicion of the commission
of offence under investigation. It is alleged by the respondents
that the appellants deliberately and intentionally did not disclose
that they have already opened new accounts and transferred
huge sums of money after knowing that stated bank accounts of
the appellants were seized on 21-1-2014 by the investigating
agency. The details of the two newly opened accounts were not
forthcoming. Further, in the proceedings filed before different
courts, incorrect plea has been taken by the appellants,
suggestive of the fact that their accounts were not compliant
and duly scrutinised by the competent authority. 25. Suffice it to observe that as the investigating
officer was in possession of materials pointing out
circumstances which create suspicion of the commission
of an offence, in particular, the one under investigation
and he having exercised powers under Section 102 of the
Code, which he could, in law, therefore, could legitimately
seize the bank accounts of the appellants after following
the procedure prescribed in sub-section (2) and sub-
section (3) of the same provision. As aforementioned, the
investigating officer after issuing instructions to seize the
stated bank accounts of the appellants submitted report
to the Magistrate concerned and thus complied with the
requirement of sub-section (3). 26. Although both sides have adverted to statement of
 accounts and vouchers to buttress their respective submissions,
 we do not deem it necessary nor think it appropriate to analyse
 the same while considering the matter on hand which emanates
 from an application preferred by the appellants to defreeze the
 stated bank accounts pending investigation of the case.
 Indisputably, the investigation is still in progress. The appellants
 will have to explain their position to the investigating agency
 and after investigation is complete, the matter can proceed
 further depending on the material gathered during the
 investigation. The suspicion entertained by the investigating
 agency as to how the appellants appropriated huge funds, which
 in fact were meant to be disbursed to the unfortunate victims of
 2002 riots will have to be explained by the appellants. Further,
 once the investigation is complete and police report is submitted
 to the court concerned, it would be open to the appellants to
 apply for defreezing of the bank accounts and persuade the
 court concerned that the said bank accounts are no more
 necessary for the purpose of investigation, as provided in sub-
 section (3) of Section 102 of the Code. It will be open to the
 court concerned to consider that request in accordance with law
 after hearing the investigating agency, including to impose
 conditions as may be warranted in the fact situation of the case. 27. In our opinion, such a course would meet the ends of
 justice. We say so also because the explanation offered by the
 appellants in respect of the discrepancies in the accounts,
 pointed out by the respondents, will be a matter of defence of
 the appellants." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court clearly holds that there can be no room to

countenance the challenge to the action of seizure of Bank account

of any person who may be found, under the circumstances, creating

suspicion of commission of any offence. Therefore, lurking suspicion

can at some times leads to freezement of the account of the 24 accused or the trade trail would lead to transaction with the

accused. In the case at hand, there need not be a separate

discovery of money trail leading to the account of the petitioner. The petitioner is the direct beneficiary of the alleged fraud, as `40/- lakhs has come into the account of the petitioner from the account

of the complainant. There is no intermediary involved in the case

at hand to discover both of money trail. Therefore, his account

cannot be permitted to be de-frozen. Therefore, the submission of

the learned counsel for the petitioner that he is ignorant and his

account should be immediately de-frozen is unacceptable. 9. The next issue is compliance with Section 102 of the

Cr.P.C. Section 102 of the Cr.P.C., reads as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

Sub-section (3) of Section 102 mandates the Investigating Officer

to forthwith report to the Magistrate about the seizure of the

property. The word 'forthwith' is emphasized upon by the petitioner

to contend that there is no reporting of the seizure to the learned

Magistrate even as on today. This submission is again

unacceptable, as communication is made or request is made by the

prosecution to freeze all accounts and to reject any application for

de-freezement, as quoted supra. This is undoubtedly is made on

06-03-2024 long before the application was filed by the petitioner 26 seeking de-freezement of the account on 04-03-2024. Even

otherwise, its non-compliance would not vitiate entire proceedings. 10. The learned counsel for the petitioner has sought to place

reliance upon several judgments rendered by the Apex Court, this

Court and that of other High Courts. They are as follows: Criminal Petition No. 607 of 2021 of Telangana High
 Court decided on 11-06-2021; (iv) M/s. FONEPAISA PAYMENT SOLUTIONS PVT. LTD. v. THE STATE OF TALANGANA - Criminal Revision Case No. 857 of 2022 of Telangana High Court decided
 on 08.02.2023; (v) SHAINUL DEVANI v. STATE OF TELENGANA - Writ
 Petition No.15352 of 2023 of Telangana high Court
 decided on 10-08-2023; (vi) CASHFREE PAYMENTS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA - Writ petition No.987
 of 2023 of Bombay High Court decided on 18-04-2023; ( vii) MANOJ KUMAR R v. STATE OF KARNATAKA - Criminal petition No.9590 of 2017 of Karnataka High
 Court decided on 21-02-2018; (viii) ORUGANTI SESHACHALA VENKATESWARLU v. GOVT. OF ANDHRA PRADESH - 2003 SCC Online AP 153. All the aforementioned judgments would now become inapplicable,

in the light of later judgment of the Apex Court in the case of SHENTO VARGHESE v. JULFIKAR HUSEN2 . The issue framed by

the Apex Court, on the facts projected before it, is found at

paragraphs 2 to 5. They read as follows: negotiable, breach of which would qualify as an illegality
 in following the prescribed statutory procedure; (b) the employment of the word 'shall' in Section 102(3)
 makes it clear that non-compliance of the mandatory
 requirement to report forthwith to the Magistrate goes to
 the root of the matter; (c) the power to seize has been subjected to procedural
 requirements prescribed under Section 102(3) - and
 breach of complying with follow-up procedures would
 render the exercise of the main power to be without
 authority and jurisdiction - in that sense, the requirement
 to report is in the nature of a condition
 subsequent clause. 5. The latter view has been sustained on the reasoning
that: Therefore, it cannot be a case of illegality but such an
 omission may only be an irregularity." (Emphasis supplied)

The answer to the issue is elucidated by the Apex Court from

paragraphs 17 to 24. They read as follows: Wharton's Law Lexicon, 17th Edition describes 'forthwith'
as extracted: In other words, it would mean as soon as possible,
judged in the context of the object sought to be achieved
or accomplished. 23. We are of the considered view that the said
expression must receive a reasonable construction and in
giving such construction, regard must be had to the
nature of the act or thing to be performed and the
prevailing circumstances of the case. When it is not the
mandate of the law that the act should be done within a
fixed time, it would mean that the act must be done
within a reasonable time. It all depends upon the
circumstances that may unfold in a given case and there
cannot be a straight-jacket formula prescribed in this
regard. In that sense, the interpretation of the word
'forthwith' would depend upon the terrain in which it
travels and would take its colour depending upon the
prevailing circumstances which can be variable. 24. Therefore, in deciding whether the police officer
has properly discharged his obligation under
Section 102(3) Cr. P.C., the Magistrate would have to,
firstly, examine whether the seizure was reported
forthwith. In doing so, it ought to have regard to the 32 interpretation of the expression, 'forthwith' as discussed
 above. If it finds that the report was not sent forthwith,
 then it must examine whether there is any explanation
 offered in support of the delay. If the Magistrate finds
 that the delay has been properly explained, it would leave
 the matter at that. However, if it finds that there is no
 reasonable explanation for the delay or that the official
 has acted with deliberate disregard/wanton negligence,
 then it may direct for appropriate departmental action to
 be initiated against such erring official. We once again
 reiterate that the act of seizure would not get vitiated by
 virtue of such delay, as discussed in detail herein above." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that seizure orders, merely because they are

not reported to the learned Magistrate immediately, will not vitiate

the seizure order, but if the Investigating Officer has no reasonable

explanation for the delay, he may become open to appropriate

departmental action. The Apex Court overrules about 36 judgments

rendered by various High Courts of the country including this Court

holding that they are not good law. 11. The submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner

that there is no reporting of the debit freeze order to the learned

Magistrate and, therefore, the account should be de-frozen, is again

unacceptable, as the Apex Court holds that non-reporting of the 33 freezement order or the seizure order to the learned Magistrate

forthwith would not vitiate the very order, but if the action of the

Officer in delaying reporting to the learned Magistrate is found to be

deliberate and unacceptable, he would face a departmental enquiry. Therefore, all that the Investigating Officer in the case at hand

would face is a departmental enquiry, if there is delay and the delay

is not satisfactorily explained, he shall be proceeded with the

departmental enquiry in accordance with the direction of the Apex

Court. The petitioner cannot harp upon non-reporting to get the

freezement order vitiated. 12. Therefore, on both the counts, one being lurking suspicion

leading to the freezing of the account of the petitioner, and the fact

that non-reporting of the freezement forthwith to the learned

Magistrate not vitiating the order of freezement, the petition does

not merit any entertainment at this juncture. 13. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Sd/- (M. NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ