This petition has been filed by the petitioner under Section

438 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail in case FIR No.0039 dated

12.03.2022 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC, registered at

Police Station City Tarn Taran, District Tarn Taran. As per prosecution version, FIR was originally registered

against 6 named co-accused, on the basis of statement of Harpreet

Singh son of Harbhajan Singh, resident of Ganga Singh Nagar, Tarn

Taran, recorded on 12.03.2022 with respect to cheating and fraud

alleged to have been committed with him by Gursahib Singh, resident

of Sultanpur Lodhi, and his associates, after Gursahib Singh

approached the complainant in the month of April-2021 and

represented himself to be an agent of a Jordan based company, which

works under the name and style of "Shipco Projects" and deals in

property business and other projects in India with each project having a

 1 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 2 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

turn over of hundred crores. Gursahib Singh enticed the complainant to

invest in the said company and to become shareholder of the same,

whereafter the money, invested by complainant, would become double

and shall be paid to the complainant through Reserve Bank of India and

would be tax free. Gursahib Singh also joined other share holders of the

company through conference call, including Vijay Kumar accused, who

appraised the complainant about the business undertaken by the

company and further informed that the company has its head office in

Indore, Madhya Pradesh, and that Mr. Santosh Shah is the MD of the

said company, who shall be visiting Dharamshala shortly. Gursahib

Singh arranged meeting of complainant with Vicky Kumar, Manager of

the company, Santosh Shah MD and a person, namely, Ashwani Kumar

(present petitioner) at Dharamshala. Complainant was asked to invest a

minimum amount of rupees One crore in Athenes International, which

is the subsidiary company of Jordan based company, pursuant to which

at the first instance complainant deposited Rs.25,40,540/- in the

account of company through RTGS. Thereafter, complainant gave

Rs.14,00,000/- cash and Rs.3,45,000/- by way of cheque payment,

which cheque amount was credited in the account of MD Santosh Shah. Thereafter, complainant further invested Rs.50,00,000/- in the company

on the asking of Gursahib Singh and later Rs.16,00,000/- in the HDFC

account of Gursahib Singh. However, complainant was never made any

payment, despite the said investment. After accused Rahul alias Vijay Kumar was arrested in the

present FIR, Rahul alias Vijay Kumar disclosed that he alongwith

 2 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 3 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

Santosh Kumar Shah, Sanjeev Rana, Ashwani Kumar (present

petitioner) and Gursahib Singh, had prepared a fake company in the

name and style "Jorden Based Company" on the pretext of alluring the

public to invest money and thereafter to cheat the public and that the

said company has cheated the complainant about Rs. 1 Crore. On the

basis of said statement of accused Rahul, vide DDR no.40 of

27.08.2022, the complete particulars of petitioner, who was earlier also

named in the body of FIR, were entered. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the

petitioner, who is a government servant and presently working as XEN

in the Public Works Department, is innocent and has been falsely

implicated in the present case and no money whatsoever has been

transferred in the account of the petitioner. He has no role in the

alleged offence. Learned counsel further submits that the petitioner is

ready and willing to join the investigation. Per contra, learned State counsel, assisted by learned

counsel for the complainant, submits that the allegations are serious in

nature and the petitioner has been named as a conspirator with other co- accused and they all have named the petitioner as a member of the gang

which has defrauded the general public on the pretext of giving heavy

returns on the investment made in their companies. It has further been

submitted that as a matter of fact, earlier also with similar kind of

allegations, FIR No.0196 dated 28.09.2017 under Sections 420 , 120-B IPC was registered at Police Station North, Chandigarh, in which the

 3 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 4 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

petitioner was the main accused. Contents of the said FIR read as

under: 4 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 5 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 mail making things look absolutely genuine. They asked
 me to deposit a fee of 7 lacs so that they can bring the
 required packing and also arrange the token of Rs.10
 crore to be paid to the seller after testing of the material if
 the material was found ok. I paid them a fee of Rs.7 lac
 and Mr. Udit Nagar along with his team reached
 Dharamshala on 29th June, 2017 at around 3 am in the
 morning and stayed in a hotel booked by me. In the
 morning Mr. Sarbjeet Gill and his associates introduced
 us to Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia and Mr. Raja stating that
 they were the owners of the super antique along with one
 Mr. Ramesh who was at that time with the material in
 some room where they were to take me and the company
 people for testing. Me along with one of Mr. Sarbjeet
 Gill's Associate, Mr. William Dean and Mr. Udit Nagar
 and his scientist started for the spot with Mr. Ashwani
 Kumar Palia and Mr. Raja leading us in their car. Mr.
 Ashwani Kumar Palia and Mr. Raja started moving in
 different direction that what we were told and after some
 distance Mr. Udit Nagar stopped the vehicle and refused
 to go any further as he said that his company does not
 allow him to go to undesignated place and henceforth he
 said that movement was over and they would have to come
 next time as the designated time was over. We agreed
 thinking it to be a technical issue. In the meantime, Mr.
 Ashwani Kumar Palia and Mr. Raja demanded Rs.5 lacs
 for paying to Mr. Ramesh to bring the article down from
 his place in the jungle. They were paid Rs.5 lacs in front of
 Mr. Sarbjeet Gill and his associates by me. For the next
 visit the company took Rs.5 lacs from me and Mr. Udit
 Nagar and his team reached Dharamshala on the night
 intervening 6th and 7th July, 2017 and in the morning of 7th
 July, 2017, when we reached the spot where testing was to
 be done, Mr. Udit Nagar and his team refused to do the

 5 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 6 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 testing saying that there were mobile towers on the
 building and testing the material could cause a blast and
 thereafter Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia told that Mr. Ramesh
 would only move to a location which he likes and then get
 the material tested and in all this the time was wasted and
 at 2 pm Mr. Udit Nagar said that time was over and we
 had to arrange for another visit. Now came the real twist
 in the tail next day as Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia called me
 and told me that now he and Mr. Ramesh would like to see
 Rs.15 crore token first and thereafter only they will show
 that material to the company for testing. I talked to the
 CEO of the company Mr. A.R. Rahman who demanded
 Rs.45 lac for showing the token first. I paid him Rs.45 lac
 and thereafter Mr. Udit Nagar along with his team
 reached on 17th July, 2017. In the morning on 18th July,
 2017 Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia along with Mr. Ramesh
 reached my hotel from where two of Mr. Udit Nagar's
 associates went along with me Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia
 and Ramesh to see the token advance for Rs.15 crores and
 when we reached the place of two people very smartly said
 that only two of us can see the money so they left me down
 in the car and took Ashwani Kumar Plaia and Ramesh
 along with o\who they left me down in the car and took
 Ashwani Kumar Palia and Ramesh along with who after
 some time returned and told me that they had seen the
 cash and were satisfied after which we returned to our
 hotel and Ashwani Kumar Palia told Ramesh to bring the
 material thereafter he did not return for some time and
 when Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia called then Ramesh told
 him that his uncle opened the material to see if the thing
 was still ok or not resulting him getting exposed and that
 he was vomiting blood. In the meantime, I called up Mr.
 A.R. Rahman to tell him what had happened on listening
 to my call he said he was also in Dharamshala due to

 6 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 7 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 showing of cash and he would come to our hotel. He came
 and accomapnied us to the spot where a person was lying
 on the ground with a rod like thing nearby. Mr. A.R.
 Rahman along with two of his associates tested the rod
 and thereafter packed it in some stuff and told me that the
 super antique was absolutely genuine and had got
 overheated and needed to be buried 6 to 7 feet under the
 ground for at least 3 days so that it could cool down and
 thereafter it need to be packed and brought to the hotel
 and then the company will repack in their own kit. He
 assured us the material was absolutely genuine. Mr. A.R.
 Rahman again demanded Rs.25 lacs for the kit and
 movement for which I again made the payment to him
 thereafter Mr. Udit Nagar along with his team arrived in
 Dharamshala on 23rd July, 2017, next day we along with
 Mr. Udit Nagar's team reached the spot where Mr.
 Ashwani Kumar Palia took us and Ramesh was already
 waiting for us. Mr. Udit Nagar and his team took full day
 to pack the rod though we were told that it would actually
 take two hours only and in evening when the material was
 packed Mr. Ramesh asked for immediate payment of
 money which was refused by Mr. Udit Nagar and Mr. A.R.
 Rahman on the pretext that it was late and payment could
 be made next morning only. Mr. Ramesh agreed to come
 and stay in the hotel for the night but told me that he
 would walk down alone after meeting his people. He never
 came and Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia told me that he will
 come the next morning. Next morning the company laid
 down a new condition that their person will get a photo
 clicked with the material and only thereafter they will
 show the cash to this Mr. Ramesh and Mr. Ashwani
 Kumar Palia did not agree and at two o' clock Mr. Udit
 Nagar said that the time was over and we will have to
 arrange for another visit. Another visit was organized for

 7 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 8 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 which I again paid Rs.35 lac. Mr. Udit Nagar reached on
 11th August, 2017. I booked the Hotel Pavilion where the
 entire exercise was to be done. Mr. Ramesh met me
 around 10 pm at the Dharamshala bus stand and was to
 bring the material at 8 am the next day i.e. 12th August,
 2018. At around 3 am on 12th August, 2017 he called me
 and told me that his uncle had died and he was going back
 to his village and he will not come in the morning and
 thereafter he switched off his mobile. Now, I have come to
 know from people that this is an organized crime done by
 there on regular basis and the kingpin of this crime is Mr.
 Ashwani Kumar Palia and Mr. Raja who have concocted
 this story along with Mr. Ramesh of having this material
 and once the company papers are shown to them they get
 in touch with company people and organized loot is done
 by them and the company by befooling the person and
 sharing the money paid by the person. I have been cheated
 of Rs.1 crore 22 lacs plus I have incurred an expense of
 around 15 lacs for travelling as well as booking hotels
 hence I request you to kindly look into matter and register
 an F.I.R. against Mr. Ashwani Kumar Palia, Mr. Raja,
 Mr. Ramesh, Mr. A.R. Rahman, Mr. Udit Nagar and Mr.
 Arif Chaudhary for cheating me and showing me,
 fabricated permissions and fake super antique material
 and looting my hard earned money. Thanking You in
 anticipation. Regards, Sd. Prem Singh Rana."
 I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused

the record. Earlier, anticipatory bail application of the petitioner was

dismissed by the Court of learned Sessions Judge, Tarn Taran, vide

order dated 08.12.2022 by recording the following findings: - 8 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 9 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 "7. Perusal of the FIR and the investigation record
 reveals that applicant-accused Ashwani Kumar was
 named as conspirator with the named co-accused at the
 very first instance. Thereafter, during course of
 investigation, when the co-accused were arrested, almost
 all of them, named applicant-accused as the member of a
 gang, which has been constituted to defraud and cheat the
 general public on the pretext of giving heavy return on the
 investment made in their companies. The complainant has
 no prior enmity with applicant-accused. The fact that
 applicant-accused has been named at the first instance
 indicates active connivance of applicant-accused with the
 co-accused, in the entire occurrence. No doubt, this Court
 has granted regular bail to some of the co-accused,
 however, all the said coaccused have undergone their
 custodial interrogation and have facilitated further
 investigation. Allegations against applicant-accused are
 serious in nature, who is stated to be involved in a number
 of similar scams and to be instrumental in lending
 credibility to the fake claims, by virtue of him, being a
 public servant. No ground is, therefore, made out to
 extend the concession of anticipatory bail to the applicant-
 accused. The bail application is, accordingly, dismissed.
 File be consigned to the record room." A Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in CRM-M-42987 of

2021 - Palwinder Singh v. State of Punjab - decided on 12.10.2021, in

a case relating to economic offence and after considering the law laid

down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Gujarat Versus

Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal and others (1987) 2 SCC 364 as well as in Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 dismissed the

 9 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 10 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

bail application of the accused. The relevant portion of the said order is

reproduced hereinbelow:- In Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Versus CBI (2013) 7 SCC
 439, the Supreme Court held as under:- 10 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 11 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 evidence in support thereof, the severity of the
 punishment which conviction will entail, the
 character of the accused, circumstances which are
 peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of
 securing the presence of the accused at the trial,
 reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being
 tampered with, the larger interests of the
 public/State and other similar considerations."
 The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner
 that in the FIR there are no specific allegation of
 petitioner impersonating is of no avail at this stage.
 Suffice-to-say that FIR is only an information given for
 initiation of criminal proceedings and is not supposed to
 be an encyclopedia of facts. A detailed inquiry was held by
 SSP in the present case. To have a deeper probe and to
 unearth the modus-operandi, custodial interrogation of the
 petitioner is required. The fact that there was recovery of
 Rs.7,72,870/- does not dilute the allegations of
 embezzlement. A bald statement has been made that the
 petitioner was a clerk and not a Branch Manager but
 nothing has been produced with the petition to
 substantiate the statement made. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in
 totality, gravity of allegations and the fact that public
 money is involved, no case is made out for grant of
 anticipatory bail. Dismissed." The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Siddharam Satlingappa

Mhetre Vs. State of Maharashtra and others , (2011) Supreme Court

Cases 694 laid down the factors and parameters which can be taken

into consideration while dealing with the anticipatory bail. The relevant

portion of the aforesaid judgment is reproduced as under:- 11 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 12 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 "112. The following factors and parameters can be taken
 into consideration while dealing with the anticipatory
 bail: ix. The court to consider reasonable apprehension
 of tampering of the witness or apprehension of
 threat to the complainant; x. Frivolity in prosecution should always be
 considered and it is only the element of genuineness
 that shall have to be considered in the matter of
 grant of bail and in the event of there being some
 doubt as to the genuineness of the prosecution, in
 the normal course of events, the accused is entitled
 to an order of bail. 113. The arrest should be the last option and it should be
 restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting the
 accused is imperative in the facts and circumstances of
 that case. The court must carefully examine the entire
 available record and particularly the allegations which
 have been directly attributed to the accused and these
 allegations are corroborated by other material and
 circumstances on record. 114. These are some of the factors which should be taken
 into consideration while deciding the anticipatory bail
 applications. These factors are by no means exhaustive but
 they are only illustrative in nature because it is difficult to
 clearly visualize all situations and circumstances in which
 a person may pray for anticipatory bail. If a wise
 discretion is exercised by the concerned judge, after
 consideration of entire material on record then most of the
 grievances in favour of grant of or refusal of bail will be
 taken care of. The legislature in its wisdom has entrusted
 the power to exercise this jurisdiction only to the judges of
 the superior courts. In consonance with the legislative
 intention we should accept the fact that the discretion
 would be properly exercised. In any event, the option of

 13 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 14 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 approaching the superior court against the court of
 Sessions or the High Court is always available.
 Irrational and Indiscriminate arrest are gross violation
 of human rights. 115. In Joginder Kumar's case (supra), a three Judge
 Bench of this Court has referred to the 3rd report of the
 National Police Commission, in which it is mentioned that
 the quality of arrests by the Police in India mentioned
 power of arrest as one of the chief sources of corruption in
 the police. The report suggested that, by and large, nearly
 60% of the arrests were either unnecessary or unjustified
 and that such unjustified police action accounted for
 43.2% of the expenditure of the jails. 116. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right
 and it should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative
 according to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the
 case." x x x x x 26. The law with regard to the grant of anticipatory bail in
 case Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) which has
 been referred to by counsel for both the parties is
 concerned, the same is clear from the perusal of para 112
 of the aforesaid judgment reproduced above. The
 parameters as enunciated by Hon'ble the Supreme Court
 including the gravity of the accusations and exact role of
 the accused etc. are concerned, it has been observed that
 while considering the prayer for the grant of anticipatory
 bail, a balance has to be struck between two factors,
 namely, no prejudice should be caused to the free, fair and
 full investigation and there should be prevention of
 harassment, humiliation and unjustified detention of the
 accused and the Court should consider reasonable
 apprehension of tampering of the witness or apprehension
 of threat to the complainant and that the arrest should be

 14 of 15 ::: Downloaded on - 21-12-2022 04:15:41 ::: 15 CRM-M-58848 of 2022

 last option and should be restricted to those exceptional
 cases where arresting the accused is imperative in the
 facts and circumstances of that case." Keeping in view the above facts and circumstances,

moreso, the allegations leveled against the petitioner, coupled with the

fact of seriousness of offences and his antecedents as well as settled

proposition of law, the present petition has no merit and, thus, deserves

to be dismissed. Accordingly, the present petition is dismissed. However, nothing stated hereinabove shall be construed as

a final expression of opinion on the merits of the case and the trial

would proceed independently of the observations made in the present

case which are only for the purpose of adjudicating the present bail

application.