1. This writ petition is filed by the petitioner under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India challenging the validity of the impugned order
dated 23.3.2023 passed by the Review Committee of the Respondent i.e.,
the Bank of Baroda ("respondent-Bank"), whereby, the decision dated
19.8.2022 taken by the Committee of Executives ("CoE"), declaring the
petitioner as wilful defaulter under the "Master Circular on Wilful
Defaulters, 2015" ("Master Circular"), issued by the Reserve Bank of
India ("RBI"), was confirmed. FACTS OF THE CASE 2. It is stated that the petitioner is the Chairman of Hindustan Power
Projects Pvt. Ltd., which runs a 1200 mega-watt power plant and
supplies electricity to three States namely, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh and Haryana. Petitioner‟s company has availed loan facilities
amounting to thousands of crores and it is stated that there has never
been any default in servicing the debt since inception. 3. However, it is alleged that the respondent-Bank sought to declare
the petitioner as a wilful defaulter with respect to his association in
another company known as Moser Baer India Ltd. ("MBIL") under the
Master Circular, thereby, depriving the petitioner from availing credit
facilities for his present and prospective business enterprises. 4. It is stated that MBIL was founded in 1983 by the father of the
petitioner namely, Mr. Deepak Puri. MBIL diversified into
manufacturing of floppy diskettes, CDs and DVDs. Between 1993 to
2005, it was the second largest disk manufacturer in the world. During
2000-2004, Warburg Pincus Group ("WPG") invested in MBIL and a
Shareholder‟s Agreement dated 17.6.2000 was executed, which had a
condition that the petitioner shall be a Director of MBIL till the time
WPG is a shareholder in MBIL. Accordingly, the petitioner became a
Director of MBIL on 19.7.2000, which is reflected in Form-32 filed by
MBIL with the Registrar of Companies ("RoC"). 5. It is the case of the petitioner that MBIL flourished as the business
of CDs and DVDs was a lucrative business. However, with the
emergence of newer platforms of storage, CDs and DVDs started
becoming obsolete and could not sustain the growth trajectory. 6. It is stated that in order to look for more financially viable fields,
MBIL entered into other forays and formed two subsidiaries namely,
Moser Baer Photo Voltaic Limited ("MBPV") (now known as Helios
Photo Voltaic Limited) in 2005 and Moser Baer Solar Limited Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 4 ("MBSL") in 2007, respectively. These companies were created to
manufacture solar cell modules which was upcoming technology as
countries attempted to move towards clean energy. The solar business of
the subsidiaries was valued at more than USD 1 billion and several
investors invested in the same with investments of around USD 193.50
million from global investors like IDFC, Nomura, Morgan Stanley, GIC,
CDC etc. under two Investor Agreements. 7. In 2006, MBIL had availed a loan facility from the respondent-
Bank and certain other banks. The respondent-Bank had sanctioned the
loan facility by sanction letters dated 12.12.2006 and 24.4.2010. 8. It is stated that the global financial crisis in the year 2007 and the
dumping of solar panels by Chinese companies severely impacted the
business of MBIL and its subsidiaries. Several applications were filed
seeking imposition of anti-dumping duties. The Directorate of Anti-
Dumping in India made a recommendation to the Government to impose
anti-dumping duties against Chinese companies to the extent of 70%.
However, Government of India chose not to do so as its aim was to
provide electricity at cheaper rates in India in consumers‟ favour. This
led to Indian manufacturers of solar panels like MBIL‟s subsidiaries
MBPV and MBSL to suffer financially. 9. It is stated that the petitioner started to have disagreements with
his father over the business strategies around 2008. In the year 2010,
pursuant to a family arrangement, the petitioner decided to exit from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 5 MBIL to focus on the thermal energy business. It is stated that while the
petitioner had stopped being actively involved in the Moser Baer group
of companies, he continued to remain a Director on the Board in MBIL
in view of the condition incorporated in the Shareholder‟s Agreement
with WPG. 10. As the profits of MBIL started to decline and there was a looming
threat of loan repayment default, lenders of MBIL found MBIL‟s case fit
for admission for restructuring and accordingly, a meeting of all the
lenders was held, called as Joint Lenders Meet ("JLM") on 3.2.2012,
wherein, all the lender banks of MBIL including the respondent-Bank
participated. In the said meeting, the MBIL representative gave a
financial summary and stated that considering the precarious financial
condition of MBIL, it was difficult to meet the loan obligations. MBIL
placed a re-structuring plan to all the lenders. The lenders noted that in
case the term debts are not restructured, MBIL would default in meeting
its loan re-payment obligations. Hence, it was considered appropriate
that MBIL be admitted for a Corporate Debt Restructuring ("CDR") in
accordance with the CDR Master Circular ("CDR Master Circular")
issued by the RBI. To ascertain the sustainability of CDR, the lenders
required MBIL to submit a Flash Report, which would present the
reasons for its decline, its viability and plan for revival. The said Flash
Report would then be forwarded by the lenders to an independent agency
for obtaining a Techno Economic Viability ("TEV") Report. The TEV
Report would indicate whether the restructuring plan proposed by MBIL Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 6 was financially viable or not. It was further decided that the lender banks
would get conducted a Stock Audit of MBIL. 11. In terms of the aforesaid meeting, on 18.2.2012, MBIL submitted
its Flash Report to the CDR Cell of the lender banks. One of the reasons
outlined in the Flash Report in Clause 13(d) for the current financial
problems of MBIL was the inability of MBIL to realize the investments
made in its two subsidiaries. The Flash Report also gave details of MBIL
issuing FCCB (Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds) of USD 150
million in tranches from June 2007; the brief description of its group
companies, including produces and installed capacities, remarks on past
track record etc. and its justification for restructuring. 12. The CDR-Empowered Group ("CDR-EG"), on 24.2.2012,
decided to admit the proposal of MBIL for restructuring. MBIL was
placed in Class-B category under the CDR Scheme, which has Classes
from A to D. In the Class-B category, the MBIL was classified as
―Corporate/promoters affected by external factors and also having weak
resources, inadequate vision and not having support of professional
management.‖ Class-C is assigned to those corporates who ―diverted
funds‖ to unrelated fields with or without lenders‟ permission. 13. In the meantime, MBIL, on 4.4.2012, informed the Central Bank
of India ("Central Bank"), which is the monitoring bank on behalf of
the lenders, that the petitioner is no longer associated with the day to day
functioning of MBIL. His association was till WPG remained invested in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 7 MBIL. Since WPG had exited MBIL on 16.3.2012 and the Shareholder‟s
Agreement was terminated and pursuant to family arrangement of 2010,
the petitioner has exited MBIL, the CDR proposal submitted by MBIL
may be considered taking into account the fact that the petitioner was no
longer a promoter of MBIL. 14. On 30.4.2012, the petitioner resigned as Executive Director of
MBIL and submitted Form 32 with the RoC to that effect. Concurrently,
the petitioner also ceased to be a shareholder of MBIL and transferred
his shareholding to his father. 15. The Flash Report submitted by MBIL was sent by the lender
banks to an external agency Ernst & Young for examination, which gave
its detailed TEV Report dated 9.6.2012, inter alia, stating that assuming
stable business and economic conditions, the MBIL may be considered
viable. 16. On 16.6.2012, the RRCA & Associates ("RRCA") also submitted
their Stock Audit Report to the lender banks. The RRCA, in its report,
concluded that the stock as per records was verified with the physical
stock at warehouses and the same was in agreement with the records. 17. On 16.7.2012, MBIL addressed another letter to Central Bank,
inter alia, reiterating that the petitioner has exited MBIL and does not
participate in the affairs of MBIL. 18. On 20.7.2012, a Joint Lenders Meet ("JLM") was held between
all the lender banks including the respondent-Bank. In the said meeting,
the MBIL informed the banks that there were constraints in realizing the
investments made in its subsidiaries due to the financial stress. Various
aspects of the restructuring proposal were discussed in the meeting. 19. After considering the Flash Report submitted by the petitioner; the
TEV Report submitted by Ernst & Young and the Stock Audit Report
submitted by RRCA, the CDR-EG, which comprised of all the lenders,
issued a Final Restructuring Scheme ("FRS") dated 20.7.2012. 20. In accordance with the FRS issued by the lender banks, MBIL and
the consortium of banks, including the respondent-Bank and with
Central Bank as the Monitoring Institution, signed a "Master
Restructuring Agreement" ("MRA") dated 27.12.2012, seeking to
implement the CDR package agreed between the parties. Under the said
MRA, the liabilities of MBIL were restructured by the lender banks.
Clause 6.1(iv) of the MRA required the MBIL to execute a Trust and
Retention Account Agreement ("TRA"). The MBIL after the execution
of TRA was required to transact, for its day to day functioning, only
through the TRA Account. 21. Subsequently, on 16.11.2012, the petitioner resigned as the
Director of MBIL and Form 32 to that effect was filed with the RoC. As
on the said date, the petitioner ceased to be a Director of MBIL, which
constituted a complete exit for the petitioner from MBIL. 22. On 12.2.2013, the TRA was executed between the lender banks
and MBIL. 23. After the CDR scheme, MBIL continued to operate its business.
However, MBIL could not financially sustain itself and committed
default in repayment of the loan amount. 24. On 25.10.2015, the Punjab National Bank ("PNB"), which was
one of the lender banks to MBIL and part of CDR, issued a show cause
notice to the petitioner, alleging that MBIL has defaulted in its
repayment of loan obligations. It was alleged that the proceeds of
business have been siphoned off and diverted. Hence, the petitioner was
proposed to be classified as a wilful defaulter under the Master Circular. 25. Against the aforesaid show cause notice, the petitioner filed Writ
Petition (C) No.7797/2017 before this Court. When the said Writ
Petition was taken up for hearing on 14.11.2017, the Advocate for
Punjab National Bank ("PNB") placed on record a communication dated
9.11.2017, issued by PNB, stating that it is not pursuing any action
against the petitioner. In view of the said statement, the Writ Petition
was not pressed and disposed of. 26. On 31.12.2015, the State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur ("SBBJ"),
another lender bank, issued a show cause notice to the petitioner seeking
to declare the petitioner as wilful defaulter under the Master Circular.
One of the allegations in the show cause notice was that MBIL had made Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 10 investments in its subsidiaries. The petitioner gave his reply to the said
show cause notice. After considering the same, the SBBJ vide its order
dated 19.5.2016, accepted the explanation put forth by the petitioner and
dropped the proceedings seeking to declare the petitioner as a wilful
defaulter. 27. On 10.10.2016, the lender banks decided to exit from the CDR
scheme approved for MBIL on account of failure of the said CDR
scheme and inability of MBIL to meet loan repayment obligations. 28. In 2017, one of the financial creditors namely, Alchemist Asset
Reconstruction Co. Ltd., filed an application under Section 7 of the
Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 ("IBC") before the National
Company Law Tribunal ("NCLT") seeking to trigger the Corporate
Insolvency Resolution Process ("CIRP") of MBIL. The NCLT vide its
order dated 14.11.2017, appointed Mr. Anil Kohli as the Interim
Resolution Professional. 29. The Resolution Professional appointed by the NCLT directed
GSA Associates, Chartered Accountants ("GSA Associates") to conduct
a forensic audit of MBIL. The GSA Associates gave its Forensic Audit
Report dated 3.6.2019. 30. On 13.3.2020, the respondent-Bank issued a show cause notice to
the petitioner as to why he should not be declared as a wilful defaulter
under the Master Circular, which is the subject matter of present Writ
Petition. The show cause notice made six allegations of wilful default by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 11 the petitioner. The allegation no.1, with which this case is concerned,
was that "MBIL has made substantial investment in subsidiaries and
related entities amounting to Rs.1586.75 Cr as on 31.12.13. During the
period from 01.04.13 to 31.03.15 provision and write off made
amounting to Rs.287.03 Cr." 31. The petitioner, on 30.3.2020, gave his reply stating that he
resigned as the Director of MBIL on 16.11.2012 and is no longer
associated with the said company. The petitioner contended that the
show cause notice was issued eight years after him ceasing to be a
Director of MBIL and the proposed action of declaration of petitioner as
wilful defaulter was being made without supplying the necessary
documents to the petitioner. 32. On 12.8.2020, the petitioner submitted another reply stating that
the petitioner could not be declared as wilful defaulter for the events that
have transpired after he resigned as the Director of MBIL. 33. The respondent-Bank gave a notice dated 31.10.2020 to the
petitioner for a personal hearing in respect of the proceedings against
him. The petitioner challenged the said letter before this Court by filing
Writ Petition (C) No.8730/2020. This Court, vide order dated 6.11.2020,
disposed of the said Writ Petition by directing that the respondent-Bank
shall provide the necessary documents to the petitioner, as may be
desired by him during the personal hearing. 34. Subsequently, certain further communications took place between
the petitioner and the respondent-Bank with regard to personal hearing,
which is not necessary to be delved into in detail. 35. The respondent-Bank, at the request of the petitioner, furnished a
copy of the Forensic Audit Report to the petitioner on 11.1.2021. On
2.6.2021, the petitioner replied stating that he had received a copy of the
Forensic Audit Report. He contended that the said report did not disclose
any event of wilful default by the petitioner. 36. The respondent-Bank conducted a personal hearing on 5.8.2021.
After the personal hearing, the petitioner, on 4.9.2021, filed his written
submissions. In the said written submissions, the petitioner gave his
response to each of the six allegations of alleged wilful default
enumerated in the show cause notice. With regard to allegation no.1, the
petitioner stated that the investments in the subsidiaries were made from
the internal accruals of MBIL and not from borrowed funds. The same
was disclosed in the audited financial statements to the banks. 37. The petitioner filed Writ Petition (C) No.12736/2022 before this
Court. However, the same was disposed of vide order dated 8.9.2022, in
view of the order dated 19.8.2022 passed by the Identification
Committee of the respondent-Bank during the pendency of the Writ
Petition declaring the petitioner as a wilful defaulter under the Master
Circular. This Court granted time to the petitioner to make a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 13 representation before the Review Committee against the order dated
19.8.2022, passed by the Identification Committee. 38. In the order dated 19.8.2022, the Identification Committee of the
respondent-Bank exonerated the petitioner from alleged acts of wilful
default with regard to allegation nos.2 to 6 made in the show cause
notice. The Identification Committee held that the said allegations
pertained to a period after the petitioner ceased to be a Director of
MBIL. 39. However, with respect to allegation no.1, the Identification
Committee observed that the petitioner was a whole time Director in
MBIL. He was in complete control over the said company. When he felt
that MBIL was in trouble; he took an easy route to exit the company.
The petitioner was aware about the affairs of MBIL and the entire
siphoning/ diversion of funds took place during this period. The CDR
that was done subsequently, was only an attempt by the lender banks to
revive MBIL. The Identification Committee ultimately held that
substantial investments were made in the subsidiaries of MBIL from the
account of MBIL, which triggered a shortage of funds. This action
amounted to diversion of funds as per Clause 2.1.3(b) and (c) of the
Master Circular. Accordingly, the petitioner was declared as a wilful
defaulter. Against the said order, the petitioner could file an
appeal/representation before the Review Committee of the respondent-
Bank as per the Master Circular. 40. The petitioner, on 22.9.2022, filed a review representation before
the Review Committee. In the said representation, the petitioner
contended that the Identification Committee has committed an error in
declaring him a wilful defaulter attributing the investment in subsidiaries
of MBIL as diversion of funds from the Master Circular. It was reiterated
that the investments in the subsidiaries were made from the internal
accruals of MBIL and not from borrowed funds. The investments were
disclosed in the audited financial statements to the banks. The said
investments were in knowledge of the lender banks at the time of
finalisation of the CDR and no objection by any lender bank was raised. 41. During the pendency of the proceedings before the Review
Committee, the petitioner filed Writ Petition (C) No.1674 of 2023 before
this Court against the order dated 19.8.2022. This Court, vide order dated
20.2.2023, declined to entertain the said Writ Petition. It was, however,
directed that if the Review Committee confirms the order passed by the
Identification Committee, the name of the petitioner shall not be
published as wilful defaulter for a period of one week enabling the
petitioner to avail legal redress against the same. 42. On 23.3.2023, the Review Committee passed the impugned order
confirming the order passed by the Identification Committee and rejected
the representation filed by the petitioner. The present Writ Petition has
been filed by the petitioner assailing this order dated 23.3.2023, passed
by the respondent-Bank. The prayer in the present Writ Petition is as
under: 43. This Court, after hearing learned counsel for the parties, vide
interim order dated 29.3.2023 stayed the operation of the impugned
order dated 23.3.2023 as against the petitioner. 44. At the time of the final arguments, this Court, vide order dated
28.11.2023, had directed the parties to place on record the document
which showed the satisfaction arrived at by the respondent-Bank to issue
show cause notice to the petitioner. On 16.12.2023, a compilation
annexing Minutes of Meeting dated 24.2.2020 was placed on record,
wherein, the decision to issue show cause notice to the petitioner was
taken. The said compilation is taken on record. 45. I have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the parties
and perused the record. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 46. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned senior counsel appearing for the
petitioner, alongwith Mr. Vaibhav Mishra, Mr. Karan Batura, Mr. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 16 Ekansh Mishra and Mr. Jayant Chawla, Advocates, has made the
following submissions: iii. Under the loan sanction letters dated 12.12.2006, loan
 undertaking dated 2.3.2007 and another loan sanction letter
 dated 24.4.2010, MBIL was required to submit its quarterly
 statements and audited balance sheets to the respondent-
 Bank. The same duly reflected the investments made by
 MBIL in its subsidiaries; iv. During the meeting of the lender banks on 20.7.2012, MBIL
 had categorically informed the banks that there were
 constraints in realizing the investments made in its
 subsidiaries due to financial stress. Thus, even prior to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 17 finalisation of the CDR Scheme and resignation of
 petitioner from MBIL, the lender banks had complete
 knowledge of the investments in the subsidiaries; v. The investment in the subsidiaries was made from the
 internal accruals and cash surpluses of MBIL and not from
 borrowed funds from lender banks. The cash accruals of
 MBIL from 2004-2011 was to the tune of Rs.2715 Crores.
 The investment in the subsidiaries was made from such
 internal accruals. The Master Circular can be invoked only
 in relation to borrowed funds. Since the investments were
 made from cash surpluses of MBIL, the proceeding under
 the Master Circular is without jurisdiction ; vi. As MBIL faced financial constraints, the lender banks
 considered the proposal of MBIL for restructuring of debt
 under the CDR Scheme. The lender banks, including the
 respondent-Bank, directed MBIL to submit a Flash Report
 placing on its restructuring proposal. The MBIL gave its
 Flash Report, in which it was clearly stated that one of the
 reasons of financial constraints was the inability to unlock
 the investments made in the subsidiaries. Thus, the lender
 Banks were fully aware of the investments; vii. The CDR-EG placed MBIL in Class-B under the CDR
 Master Circular, which does not apply where there is
 diversion of funds; viii. The CDR-EG obtained a TEV Report from Ernst & Young
 and a Stock Audit Report from RRCA, which are external
 independent entities. Based on the Flash Report, TEV
 Report and the Stock Audit Report, the lender banks issued
 the FRS. The FRS is an internal document of the lender
 banks. The respondent-Bank has admitted in these
 proceedings that the FRS is "Bank's own document" in its
 counter affidavit filed in the present Writ Petition. ix. In the FRS, the lender banks have themselves
 acknowledged, based on audited financial statements
 submitted by MBIL, that the investment in the subsidiaries
 of MBIL had taken place from the internal accruals of
 MBIL and not from the funds borrowed from the banks. It
 was contended that the Master Circular is triggered only
 when there is diversion or siphoning of borrowed funds and
 not otherwise. Further, in the FRS, the lender banks noted
 that there was no adverse movement of funds. In fact, one
 of the reasons for poor financial performance of MBIL was
 the inability to lock the investments made in the
 subsidiaries. Thus, from the very inception, the lender banks
 were fully aware that investments were made in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 19 subsidiaries and the same was made from internal accruals
 and not from borrowed funds. The lender banks never
 categorised the investments as diversion of any borrowed
 loan amount; x. Under the CDR Scheme, in particular Clause 6.3 read with
 7.1 read with para 2 of Annexure III, while discharging
 public function and dealing with public funds, the banks
 acting through the CDR-EG, were required to ascertain
 whether there existed any instances of fraud or malfeasance
 or wilful default qua the affairs of MBIL. It was incumbent
 upon the banks/ CDR-EG to ensure that corporates
 engaging in fraud/malfeasance were not allowed, in public
 interest, to misuse the CDR scheme as that would amount to
 perpetrating the fraud already committed by a wilful
 defaulter borrower. If any such instances were found, the
 banks could and should have refused to either accept/ admit
 MBIL for CDR completely as per Clause 6.3 or imposed
 such onerous conditions upon MBIL as provided for in para
 C and D of Annexure IV of the CDR Scheme. In fact, under
 Clause 3.3 of the CDR Scheme itself, the banks, including
 the respondent-Bank, had the express option and power to
 conduct a forensic audit on their own before CDR approval.
 No such forensic audit was initiated or recommended or
 even considered necessary by the banks, including the
 respondent-Bank; xi. It is contended that prior to the issuance of the FRS, the
 CDR-EG was in fact willing to classify MBIL in Class-A
 (i.e., "Corporate affected by external factors pertaining to
 economy and Industry"), which is the highest category,
 provided that MBIL gave a personal guarantee of the
 petitioner. However, because MBIL could not comply with
 this condition, it was allowed to retain Class-B. The offer to
 classify MBIL in Class-A and the eventual decision to
 retain Class-B, clearly establishes that, as required under the
 CDR Scheme, the banks including respondent-Bank did not
 find it necessary to conduct an investigation and analysis
 into the affairs of MBIL prior to admitting MBIL for a CDR
 package; xii. Having (i) categorized MBIL as Class-B borrower at the
 stage of receipt of Flash Report, (ii) confirmed Class-B
 category for MBIL in the FRS after TEV Report and Stock
 Audit, (iii) finally admitted MBIL for CDR, (iv) felt no
 need for a forensic audit either before or during CDR and
 not even after the CDR failed, makes it clear that the banks
 did not find any event of fraud or malfeasance or diversion
 of funds. Otherwise, lender banks would not have admitted
 MBIL to CDR or have directed a forensic audit, at least,
 after they exited the CDR. The lender banks are, thus,
 estopped from contending that they did not have any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 21 opportunity to look at events of wilful default prior to the
 issuance of Forensic Audit Report; xiii. On similar set of allegations against the petitioner, PNB and
 SBBJ issued show cause notice to the petitioner. After
 considering the explanation of the petitioner, both these
 banks dropped the wilful default proceedings against the
 petitioner; xiv. The respondent-Bank has issued show cause notice to the
 petitioner eight years after he ceased to be the Director of
 MBIL and more than ten years since the investments were
 made by MBIL in its subsidiaries; xv. The respondent-Bank, out of the six allegations of wilful
 default, exonerated the petitioner in respect of five
 allegations from no.2 to 6. However, in respect of allegation
 no.1, the respondent-Bank wrongly attributed the writing
 off of Rs.287.04 Crores from 1.4.2013 to 31.3.2015 to the
 petitioner as he ceased to be a Director of MBIL from
 16.11.2012. No act of wilful default can be attributed to the
 petitioner when he was not the Director of MBIL and
 ceased to have any role in MBIL; xvi. In response to the show cause notice, the petitioner
 specifically stated in his reply that the investments in the
 subsidiaries were made from the internal accruals of MBIL Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 22 and not from borrowed funds. Neither the Identification
 Committee nor the Review Committee ever adverted to the
 said defence in their respective orders. The orders passed by
 the Identification Committee and the Review Committee
 suffers from non-application of mind; xvii. The Forensic Audit Report does not disclose any event of
 wilful default by the petitioner; xviii. The impugned order passed by the Review Committee is,
 therefore, illegal, deserving to be set aside by this Court; xix. Reliance is placed on the decisions in CAG v. K.S.
 Jagannathan1 , SBI v. Jah Developers (P) Ltd.2, Chordia
 Automobiles v. S. Moosa3 , Ram Kishan v. Tarun Bajaj4 , Mohd. Mustafa v. Union of India5 , Mekaster Trading
 Corporation v. Union of India6, Comptroller and Auditor
 General of India, Gian Prakash v. K.S. Jaganathan7 , Achutananda Baidya v. Praffulya Kumar Gayen &
 Others8 , State of Punjab v. Bandeep Singh9, Mohinder 1 1986 2 SCC 679 2 (2019) 6 SCC 787 3 (2000) 3 SCC 282 4 (2014) 16 SCC 204 5 (2022) 1 SCC 294 6 2003 SCC OnLine Del 794 7 (1986) 2 SCC 679 8 (1997) 5 SCC 76 9 (2016) 1 SCC 724 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 23 Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner10, ABL
 International Ltd. v. Export Credit Guarantee Corpn. of
 India Ltd.11 , NTPC Ltd. v. Mahesh Dutta12 , Popatrao
 Vyankatrao Patil v. State of Maharashtra13 , Real Estate
 Agencies v. State of Goa14 , M.P. Power Management Co.
 Ltd. v. Sky Power Southeast Solar India (P) Ltd.15 , Dewan
 & Sons Investment Pvt. Ltd. v. NDMC16 , Radha Raman
 Samanta v. Bank of India17 , Babu Verghese & Ors. v. Bar
 Counsel of Kerela18 , Heinz India (P) Ltd. v. State of
 U.P.19, M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi Temple- 5J.) v.
 Suresh Das20, NG Dastane v. S Dastane21, State of UP v.
 Sheo Shanker Lal Srivastava22 , All India Railway
 Recruitment Board v. K Shyam Kumar23 , Aap
 Infrastructure Ltd. v. Bank of Baroda24 , Canara Bank v.
 P.R.N. Upadhyaya & Ors.25 , SBI v. Rajesh Agarwal26 , Erusian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd v. State of West 10 (1978) 1 SCC 405 11 (2004) 3 SCC 553 12 (2009) 8 SCC 339 13 (2020) 19 SCC 241 14 (2012) 12 SCC 170 15 (2023) 2 SCC 703 16 1996 SCC OnLine Del 781 17 (2004) 1 SCC 605 18 (1999) 3 SCC 422 19 (2012) 5 SCC 443 20 (2020) 1 SCC 1 21 (1975) 2 SCC 326 22 (2006) 3 SCC 276 23 (2010) 6 SCC 614 24 2019 SCC OnLine Del 9670 25 (1998) 6 SCC 526 26 (2023) 6 SCC 1 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 24 Bengal27, Delhi Public School v. Central Board of
 Secondary Education28, Prashant Bothra v. Bureau of
 Immigrations & Ors.29 and Gorkha Securities v. Govt. of
 NCT of Delhi & Ors.30 47. Mr. Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, learned senior counsel appearing on
behalf of the respondent-Bank, alongwith Mr. Kush Sharma, Standing
Counsel and Mr. Nishchaya Nigam, Advocate, on the other hand, made
the following submissions: v. The MBIL had made investments in its subsidiaries when
 the petitioner was a whole time Director of MBIL. This fact
 has been mentioned in the Forensic Audit Report and hence,
 the respondent-Bank has rightly declared the petitioner as a
 wilful defaulter; vi. There is no limitation in the Master Circular for issuance of
 show cause notice. As soon as the respondent-Bank became
 aware of the acts of wilful default from the contents of the
 Forensic Audit Report dated 3.6.2019, the respondent-Bank
 immediately took action; vii. The validity of Master Circular is not under challenge by
 the petitioner; viii. The Review Committee has passed well-reasoned order,
 which is based on the Forensic Audit Report and which had
 found diversion of funds. The Forensic Audit Report has not
 been challenged. This Court cannot sit in judgment over the
 Forensic Audit Report, which is prepared by an independent
 third party. The said Review Committee order does not
 warrant any interference from this Court; ix. During the CDR process, no forensic audit was conducted
 and hence, the petitioner cannot take advantage of the fact
 that in the CDR process, MBIL was placed in Class-B as
 per CDR Master Circular; x. The scope of judicial review over the order passed by the
 Review Committee is limited; xi. Learned counsel placed reliance on the decisions in the
 cases of Sarvepalli Ramaih v. District Collector , Chittoor
 & Ors.31, State of UP v. Sheo Shanker Lal Srivastava &
 Ors.32 , V. Ramana v. Andhra Pradesh State Transport
 Corporation Vishakapatnam & Ors.33 , Nitin & Ors. v.
 IDBI Bank Limited & Ors.34, Rajesh Agarwal (supra) and
 LPA No. 597/2022 of this Court in the case of Kirtilal
 Ravchandbhai Sanghavi v. Reserve Bank of India & Anr . ANALYSIS

 Scheme of RBI's Master Circular for declaring a person as "wilful
 defaulter" 48. Before going into the facts of the case, it is essential to examine
the scheme of the Master Circular. In order to put in place a system to
disseminate credit information pertaining to wilful defaulters for 31 (2019) 4 SCC 500 32 (2006) 3 SCC 276 33 2001 SCC Online AP 705 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 27 cautioning banks and financial institutions so as to ensure that further
bank finance is not made available to them, the RBI, in exercise of
power under Sections 21 and 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
issued the Master Circular dated 1.7.2015. 49. Originally, a scheme for declaration as wilful defaulter was
framed by the RBI in 1999 on the recommendations made by the Central
Vigilance Commission, which was subsequently modified in 2002. At
the time of consideration of the petitioner‟s case, the Master Circular of
2015 was in force. 50. Clause 2.1.3 of the said Master Circular defines the event of
"wilful default". In the present case, the petitioner has been declared a
wilful defaulter under Clauses 2.1.3(b) and (c). Clause 2.1.3(b) provides
that an event of wilful default shall be deemed to be occurred if the unit
has defaulted in loan repayment obligation; has not utilized the loan
amount for the purpose it was granted and diverted the funds for other
purposes. Clause 2.1.3(c) provides that an event of wilful default shall be
deemed to be occurred if the unit has defaulted in meeting loan
repayment obligations; has siphoned off the funds and the funds are not
utilized for the specific purpose for which the loan was availed. 51. The last part of Clause 2.1.3 also mandates that the identification
of wilful default should be made keeping in view of track record of the
borrower and not on the basis of isolated transactions/ incidents. It 34 2019 SCC Online Bom 1422 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 28 specifically mandates that a "default" in order to be categorized as
"wilful" must be "intentional, deliberate and calculated". Clause
2.1.3(b) and (c), which have been invoked in the present case, reads as
under: The identification of the wilful default should be made keeping in
 view the track record of the borrowers and should not be decided
 on the basis of isolated transactions/incidents. The default to be
 categorised as wilful must be intentional, deliberate and
 calculated.‖ 52. A bare reading of Clauses 2.1.3(b) and (c) clearly reveals that an
event of wilful default can only take place when the "loan amount" lent
by the bank is diverted or siphoned off by the borrower, for any use,
other than for which the loan was granted. 53. Clause 2.2 of the Master Circular defines "diversion of funds" and
"siphoning of funds" as under: 2.2.2 Siphoning of funds, referred to at para 2.1(c) above, should
 be construed to occur if any funds borrowed from banks / FIs are
 utilised for purposes un-related to the operations of the borrower,
 to the detriment of the financial health of the entity or of the lender.
 The decision as to whether a particular instance amounts to
 siphoning of funds would have to be a judgement of the lenders
 based on objective facts and circumstances of the case." 54. The definition of "diversion of funds" and "siphoning of funds", as
aforesaid, also makes it explicitly clear that the event of "diversion of
funds" or "siphoning of funds" can take place only when the "borrowed
funds" are deployed or used, for any purpose, other than for which the
loan was sanctioned. The Master Circular further places an obligation on
the bank to make the judgment about "diversion of funds" or "siphoning
of funds" based on "objective facts and circumstances of the case." 55. Clause 2.5 of the Master Circular provides for initiation of penal
measures against the persons or entities declared as wilful defaulter
under Clause 2.1.3 of the Master Circular, which includes non-grant of
additional loan facility by any bank or financial institution in the future;
debarring them from floating new venture for a period of five years from
the date of removal of name as wilful defaulter; initiation of criminal
proceedings; change of management of borrower unit; non-induction of
the person in the Board of the company etc. The last part of Clause 2.5
places a specific obligation on the banks to put in place a transparent
mechanism so that the penal provisions of the said clause are not
misused and the scope of such discretionary exercise of power is kept to
a bare minimum. Solitary or isolated incidents are not to be used for the
use of penal action under the said clause. Clause 2.5 reads as under: It should also be ensured that a solitary or isolated instance is not
 made the basis for imposing the penal action." 56. Clause 2.9 provides that the RBI under the " Credit Information
Companies (Regulations) Act, 2015 " has granted certificate to four
Credit Information Companies. The lender banks should submit a list of
wilful defaulters to such Credit Information Companies. This would
make the list of wilful defaulters available to banks and financial
institutions on real time basis and dissuade them from grant of credit
facility to such persons and entities. Clause 2.9 reads as under: Credit Information Companies (CICs) have also been advised to
disseminate the information pertaining to suit filed accounts of
Wilful Defaulters on their respective websites. (b) Banks / FIs should, however, submit the quarterly list of wilful
defaulters where suits have not been filed only to RBI in the format
given in Annex 1. (c) In order to make the current system of banks/FIs reporting
names of suit filed accounts and non-suit filed accounts of Wilful
Defaulters and its availability to the banks by CICs / RBI as
current as possible, banks / FIs are advised to forward data on
wilful defaulters to the CICs/Reserve Bank at the earliest but not
later than a month from the reporting date. d) After examining the recommendations of the Committee to
Recommend Data Format for Furnishing of Credit Information to
Credit Information Companies (Chairman: Shri. Aditya Puri) it has
been decided to implement the following measures with regard to
reporting and dissemination of information on wilful defaulters: 57. Clause 3 of the Master Circular provides the mechanism for
identifying a wilful defaulter. The said provision provides that the
evidence of wilful default shall be examined by a Committee headed by
Executive Director or equivalent and consisting of two other senior
officers of the rank of GM/DGM. If the said Committee concluded that
an event of wilful default has occurred, it shall issue a show cause notice
to the concerned unit or person calling for his response. After
consideration of the response, a final order recording the event of wilful
default, or otherwise, may be issued alongwith the reasons for the same.
Wherever the Committee considers necessary, an opportunity of personal
hearing should also be granted. This Committee is called as the
"Identification Committee." 58. The order of the Identification Committee shall be reviewed by
another Committee headed by the Chairman/MD/CEO and two other
independent/non-Executive Directors of the bank. The order declaring a
person as wilful defaulter shall become final only after it is confirmed by
this Review Committee. The said clause also provides that under Section
2(60) of the Companies Act, 2013, an officer who is in "default" to mean Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 34 only "whole time director" unless the case falls in the category of
exceptions enumerated in the said clause. Clause 3 reads as under: Therefore, except in very rare cases, a non-whole-time director
 should not be considered as a wilful defaulter unless it is
 conclusively established that
 I. he was aware of the fact of wilful default by the borrower by
 virtue of any proceedings recorded in the Minutes of the Board or a
 Committee of the Board and has not recorded his objection to the
 same in the Minutes, or,
 II. the wilful default had taken place with his consent or
 connivance. A similar process as detailed in sub paras (a) to (c) above should
 be followed when identifying a non-promoter/non-whole time
 director as a wilful defaulter.‖ 59. Clause 4.2(iii) also provides for initiation of criminal proceedings
against declared wilful defaulters, wherever necessary. Consequences of a person or entity being declared as a wilful
 defaulter 60. As discussed earlier, the object of the Master Circular is salutary.
The Master Circular aims to protect the country‟s banks and financial
institutions from unscrupulous entities and individuals. It is intended to
identify and punish those entities and individuals who have diverted or
siphoned off borrowed funds for purposes other than for which the loan
facility was availed leading to default in the repayment obligations. Such
individuals and entities must be identified and their names be published
in public domain so that they are barred from availing any further loan
facility from any other bank. If such an exercise is not undertaken, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 36 cycle of diversion/siphoning of borrowed funds; default and re-
borrowing, leading to same situation may continue. Such a scenario may
adversely affect the liquidity of the banking system and affect the overall
financial health of the country. There is, thus, no doubt that the Master
Circular aims to achieve a very lauded object. Notably, the scheme of the
Master Circular indicates that it is both a punitive and preventive
measure. 61. However, it needs to be acknowledged that the consequences for
an individual or an entity who is declared as wilful defaulter are also
drastic. As discussed earlier, such an individual or entity is barred from
availing any loan facility in the future; is proscribed from floating new
venture; and may face criminal proceedings. Additionally, being labelled
as wilful defaulter in public domain also affects the reputation of such
individual and entity. Business entities would hesitate to do any business
or dealing with someone who is declared as wilful defaulter. The
availability of loans from financial institutions is the backbone of doing
business. It is not only a mode of raising finance but it is also an
indicator of the creditworthiness of the business entity. Hence, the
deprivation to avail such facility virtually knocks a financial death knell
on such individual or entity. 62. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Jah Developers
(supra), had an occasion to examine the consequences of a person being
declared as wilful defaulter under the Master Circular. The Hon‟ble
Supreme Court held that a person declared as wilful defaulter affects the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 37 fundamental right of a person under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution
as it directly affects the right to do business and thus, the Master Circular
must be construed reasonably. The relevant paragraph of the said
decision reads as under:- 63. Subsequently, in the case of Rajesh Agarwal (supra), the Hon‟ble
Supreme Court dealt with another similar Circular issued by the RBI
known as the Master Directions on Frauds. The said Circular deals with
the mechanism to declare an account as fraud. The Hon‟ble Supreme
Court held that such classifications entail serious civil consequences for
the borrower. The proceedings forming an opinion about classification as
fraud are "administrative" in nature and the principles of natural justice
apply to the administrative decision making. It was held that there are
both civil as well as penal consequences. Such consequences in the
Master Directions on Frauds are similar to the consequences envisaged
in the Master Circular and hence the observations made by the Hon‟ble
Supreme Court in Jah Developers (supra) squarely applied. It was
further held that the bar from raising finances could be fatal for the
borrower leading to its "civil death" in addition to the infraction of their
rights under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. It was further held that
classifying an account as fraud not only affects the business and
goodwill of the borrower, but also the right to reputation. The relevant
observations are as under: *** 62. Classification of a borrower's account as fraud has the effect of
preventing the borrower from accessing institutional finance for
the purpose of business. It also entails significant civil
consequences as it jeopardises the future of the business of the
borrower. Therefore, the principles of natural justice necessitate
giving an opportunity of a hearing before debarring the borrower
from accessing institutional finance under Clause 8.12.1 of the
Master Directions on Frauds. The action of classifying an account
as fraud not only affects the business and goodwill of the borrower,
but also the right to reputation. *** 63. In State of Maharashtra v. Public Concern for Governance
Trust, a two-Judge Bench of this Court held that a decision taken
by any authority affecting the right to reputation of an individual
has civil consequences. Therefore, in such situations the principles
of natural justice would come into play. The Court held that any
order or decision of the authority adversely affecting the personal
reputation of an individual must be taken after following the
principles of natural justice : (SCC p. 606, para 41)

 ―41. It is thus amply clear that one is entitled to have and
 preserve one's reputation and one also has a right to protect
 it. In case any authority in discharge of its duties fastened
 upon it under the law, travels into the realm of personal
 reputation adversely affecting him, it must provide a chance
 to him to have his say in the matter. In such circumstances,
 right of an individual to have the safeguard of the principles
 of natural justice before being adversely commented upon is
 statutorily recognised and violation of the same will have to
 bear the scrutiny of judicial review.‖ 64. RBI and lender banks have relied on Peerless General Finance
& Investment Co. Ltd. v. RBI, Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel v. RBI
and Internet & Mobile Assn. of India v. RBI to submit that the
Master Directions on Frauds are akin to a statutory regulation and
a decision on economic policy, which must be accorded a level of
deference. 65. The competence of RBI to issue the Master Directions on
Frauds is not a bone of contention in these appeals. RBI, in its
estimation, has the power to determine and frame economic
measures in the public interest to ensure the proper management of
banking companies. The point however is that the implementation
of a decision to secure the health of banking companies must
comport with the due process of law. The civil consequences which
follow upon a classification of a borrower's account as fraud are
serious and prejudicial to the interests of a borrower. Principles of
fair play require that the borrower ought to be given an
opportunity of being heard before classifying the account as fraud
in accordance with the procedure laid down under the Master
Directions on Frauds. *** 94. Before concluding, we also want to address the argument by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 42 the borrowers that the requirement of passing a reasoned order
 must be read into the Master Directions on Frauds. The borrowers
 also relied on Jah Developers wherein it was held that a final
 decision of the Review Committee declaring the borrower as a
 ―wilful defaulter‖ must be made by a reasoned order. We agree
 with this contention of the borrowers because : (i) a reasoned
 order allows an aggrieved party to demonstrate that the reasons
 which persuaded the authority to pass an adverse order against the
 interests of the aggrieved party are extraneous or perverse; and (ii)
 the obligation to record reasons acts as a check on the arbitrary
 exercise of the powers. The reasons to be recorded need not be
 placed on the same pedestal as a judgment of a court. The reasons
 may be brief but they must comport with fairness by indicating a
 due application of mind." 64. As held by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, the declaration of a person
as wilful defaulter and barring him from credit facility in the future have
civil and penal consequences, which also have the effect of adversely
affecting his reputation. Thus, the declaration of a person as wilful
defaulter, apart from adversely affecting the fundamental rights
guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, also affects the
right to reputation of a person, which is also a fundamental right
guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The decisions of the
Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the cases of Sukhwant Singh v. State of
Punjab35 , Subramanian Swamy v. Union of India36 and Om Prakash
Chautala v. Kanwar Bhan37 are noteworthy in this regard. 65. As discussed above, since the declaration of a person as wilful
defaulter has both civil and penal consequences; it affects the
fundamental right to do business under Article 19(1)(g) and affects the
right to reputation under Article 21 of the Constitution, the next question
that follows is what should be the standard of proof to decide the validity
of an event of wilful default under the Master Circular. 66. The proceedings under the Master Circular are civil in nature.
Ordinarily, the validity of a civil action is decided on a preponderance of
probability. However, it has been laid down by the Hon‟ble Supreme
Court in the case of Heinz India (P) Ltd. (supra) that the nature of proof
within this test varies and depends upon the subject matter. The graver
the charge and consequences, the higher the degree of proof required: 67. Subsequently, in the case of M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi
Temple-5 J.) (supra), the Constitution Bench of the Hon‟ble Supreme
Court reiterated that in standard of preponderance of probabilities, there
could be different degrees of probability and the degree depends upon Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 45 the subject matter. The civil action which affects the status of parties
requires a closer scrutiny. The relevant observations are as under: This was succinctly summarised by Denning, L.J. in Bater v. Bater,
 where he formulated the principle thus : (p. 37)

 ―... So also in civil cases, the case must be proved by a
 preponderance of probability, but there may be degrees of
 probability within that standard. The degree depends on the
 subject-matter.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 722. The definition of the expression ―proved‖ in Section 3 of the
 Evidence Act is in the following terms: 723. Proof of a fact depends upon the probability of its existence.
The finding of the court must be based on: 335-36, para 24)

 ―The belief regarding the existence of a fact may thus be
 founded on a balance of probabilities. A prudent man faced with
 conflicting probabilities concerning a fact situation will act on
 the supposition that the fact exists, if on weighing the various
 probabilities he finds that the preponderance is in favour of the
 existence of the particular fact. As a prudent man, so the court
 applies this test for finding whether a fact in issue can be said to
 be proved. The first step in this process is to fix the
 probabilities, the second to weigh them, though the two may
 often intermingle. The impossible is weeded out at the first
 stage, the improbable at the second. Within the wide range of
 probabilities the court has often a difficult choice to make but it
 is this choice which ultimately determines where the
 preponderance of probabilities lies. Important issues like those
 which affect the status of parties demand a closer scrutiny than
 those like the loan on a promissory note:‗the nature and gravity
 of an issue necessarily determines the manner of attaining
 reasonable satisfaction of the truth of the issue, CLR at p. 210';
 or as said by Lord Denning, ‗the degree of probability depends
 on the subject-matter'. In proportion as the offence is grave, so
 ought the proof to be clear, All ER at p. 536'. But whether the
 issue is one of cruelty or of a loan on a pronote, the test to apply
 is whether on a preponderance of probabilities the relevant fact
 is proved. In civil cases this, normally, is the standard of proof Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 47 to apply for finding whether the burden of proof is discharged.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 725. The Court recognised that within the standard of
 preponderance of probabilities, the degree of probability is based
 on the subject-matter involved." 68. It is also a settled principle of law that action, which has penal
consequences, must be strictly construed. For reference, the decisions of
the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Supreme Court Bar Assn. v.
Union of India38 , Manohar v. State of Maharashtra39 , State of U.P. v.
Lalai Singh Yadav40, Regl . Provident Fund Commr. v. Hooghly Mills
Co. Ltd.41 and Glaxo Laboratories (I) Ltd. v. Presiding Officer42 are
noteworthy in this regard. 69. From the aforesaid enunciation of law, it is evident that in the test
of validity of civil action on preponderance of probability, the graver the
consequences of such civil action, the higher is the degree of proof
required. The court must first consider the existing probabilities,
followed by a comparative analysis of the respective weights to be
attached to the probabilities. The degree of probability is based on the
subject matter. The subject matter under scrutiny is one of the
circumstances to be kept in mind while deciding the degree of proof.
While accepting the probability in favour of one fact over the other, the
court must be in a position to say that a reasonable person could proceed 38 (1998) 4 SCC 409 39 (2012) 13 SCC 14 40 (1976) 4 SCC 213 41 (2012) 2 SCC 489 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 48 with a supposition that such fact exists. This test is not only in
conformity with the precedents discussed above but is also in tandem
with Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. If this principle of law
is tested on the anvil of the Master Circular, it is clear that the Master
Circular entails not only grave civil, but also penal consequences.
Considering the subject matter and grave civil and penal consequences,
the validity of an order declaring as wilful defaulter would require a
closer scrutiny as to whether such an order falls within the four corners
of the Master Circular or is it otherwise. Scope of judicial review in administrative action 70. Before this Court delves deeper into the facts of the present case, it
is also important to discuss the scope of judicial review in administrative
action. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh Agarwal (supra) has held that the act of declaring a person as wilful defaulter or
fraud is in the nature of administrative action. The scope of judicial
review on administrative action is well defined. It is not necessary to
discuss judicial decisions in detail except to note a recent decision of the
Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Mohd. Mustafa (supra), wherein, it was
reiterated that if the discretionary power has been exercised in disregard
of relevant consideration, the Court would hold the action bad in law. If
the relevant, germane and valid considerations are ignored or overlooked
by an executive authority while taking a decision, the same would fail to 42 (1984) 1 SCC 1 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 49 withstand judicial scrutiny. The relevant observations are reproduceas
under: Scheme of Corporate Debt Restructuring ("CDR") issued by the
 RBI 71. The RBI has framed the CDR Master Circular enabling the lender
banks to prepare a CDR scheme in respect of a business entity, which is
struggling in meeting its existing loan repayment obligations. The CDR
Master Circular requires the borrower to submit a Flash Report to the
lender banks making the restructuring proposal. Wherever necessary, the
lender banks would obtain a TEV Report to ascertain the viability of the
company. The CDR Master Circular also requires the lender banks to
change the management of the company where there has been "diversion
of funds". In case of "diversion of funds", wherever necessary, the banks
may also carry out forensic audit of the company. Clause 3 of the CDR
Master Circular reads as under: - 72. Similarly, Clause 6.3 of the CDR Master Circular provides that
companies indulging in frauds and malfeasance will remain ineligible for
the CDR Scheme. Clause 6.3 reads as under: - 73. Clause 6.3 specifically requires the Core Group of banks to
"ensure that cases involving frauds or diversion of funds with mala fide
intent are not covered." The said clause further provides that the ―details
of eligibility criteria to be followed in respect of cases of wilful
defaulters etc. are given in Annexure III.‖ 74. Annexure III, which relates to "Cases of Wilful Defaulters: 75. The aforesaid definition of wilful default in RBI‟s guidelines
issued on 2.7.2012 is identical to the definition of wilful default as
defined in the Master Circular in question in the present case. 76. Paragraph 2 of Annexure III of the CDR Master Circular then
mandates that "Banks/ FIs should take" specified "measures in
identifying and reporting instances of wilful default". These steps are
similar to the steps provided in the Master Circular viz. identification by
Identification Committee, show cause notice to borrower, representation
before Grievance Redressal Committee/ Review Committee and finally a
decision. 77. Paragraph 4 restates that "Cases of Wilful Defaulter Not Eligible
Under CDR". This clarifies again that cases of reported siphoning of
funds or misfeasance, fraud etc. are prima facie not eligible to be
covered under CDR. 78. Paragraph 5 mandates referring institution to check list of wilful
defaulters as maintained by RBI/ CIBIL to verify whether any FI/ bank
has reported the company as wilful defaulter and inter alia, report such
instances to the CDR-EG. 79. Where a borrower is classified as a wilful defaulter, the core group
may review the reasons for such classification and even such exceptional
cases may be admitted for CDR, but they are required to undergo a much
more onerous and rigorous process before an MRA/ TRA is executed. 80. Clause 7 of the CDR Master Circular enjoins the lender banks to
classify the borrowing company in one of the four categories from A to
D. Category-C is assigned where there is diversion of funds by the
company: 81. Clause 7.2 provides that: 82. As per Clause 7.3, "Referring Institution should incorporate all
applicable standard terms and conditions in the restructuring package,
besides special conditions deemed necessary in specific cases..."
Annexure IV in paragraph A (1) to (28), provides standard conditions for
all four category of borrowers. 83. Paragraph B imposes "Additional Conditions for Borrower Class - ‗B' (In addition to Standard Conditions Stipulated Under A)".
Paragraph C imposes "Additional conditions for Borrower Class - ‗C'
(In addition to Standard Conditions Stipulated Under A & B)". Paragraph D imposes "Additional conditions for Borrower Class - ‗D'
(In addition to Standard Conditions Stipulated under A, B & C)". Thus,
the lower the Class assigned, the higher the conditions are to be placed. 84. As per Clause 8.1, "A decision of the CDR Empowered Group
relating to prima facie feasibility and/or final approval of Restructuring
Scheme shall be taken by a Super-Majority Vote at a duly convened
meeting, after giving reasonable notice, to the Lenders and to the
Eligible Borrower." 85. As defined in Clause 8.3, „Super-Majority Vote‟ means not less
than 60 per cent of number of lenders holding not less than 75 per cent of
aggregate Principle Outstanding Financial Assistance. 86. On admission of Flash Report, as per Clause 9.3, "the borrower
should open a current account with the MI (Monitoring Institution) to be
designated ―pre-TRA‖ account..." and the procedure for which is
described in Clauses 9.3 (i) to (xiii). 87. Clause 10 provides for a "Monitoring Mechanism" to ensure
success of CDR mechanism and provides for an exhaustive process for
proper implementation of the restructuring scheme. Clause 22 provides
for criteria and procedure for exit from CDR. 88. After the TEV Report is made by an "independent agency" and an
independent auditor conducts a Stock Audit of the company (both
appointed by banks/ consortium of banks), the bank/ consortium of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 57 banks then commission the preparation of FRS, which is deliberated and
approved by the banks and such approved FRS is submitted to the CDR-
EG for its approval. 89. As per Clause 10.9, pursuant to the approval of CDR package by
the CDR-EG, MRA and TRA are drawn, deliberated and signed between
the company and the banks. This implements/ puts in effect the CDR
package for a borrower company. Whether the show cause notice was issued after inordinate and
 unexplained delay? 90. From the Form-32 submitted by the petitioner with the RoC, it is
an admitted fact that the petitioner had resigned as Director of MBIL on
16.11.2012. This fact was admitted by the respondent-Bank in order
dated 8.9.2022 passed by this Court in Ratul Puri v. Bank of Baroda43 ,
wherein, it was recorded as under:- 91. The allegation of investments by MBIL in its subsidiaries pertains
to the period prior to the resignation of the petitioner as a Director.
Hence, the learned counsel for the respondent-Bank was asked by this
Court to explain the reason for issuance of show cause notice on
13.3.2020 to the petitioner i.e., after almost eight years since the
petitioner exited MBIL. 92. The learned counsel for the respondent-Bank responded by
contending that the bank became aware of huge diversion of funds in the
subsidiaries of MBIL, only after it obtained a copy of the Forensic Audit
Report dated 3.6.2019. Accordingly, the respondent-Bank decided to
issue show cause notice. 93. In view thereof, the first question for the consideration of this
Court is, whether the respondent-Bank became aware of the investments
made by MBIL in its subsidiaries, which according to the respondent-
Bank amounts to diversion of funds, only after it got a copy of the
Forensic Auditor Report in 2019. 94. It may be noted that in its counter affidavit to the Writ Petition at
paragraph no.11, the respondent-Bank has admitted that it was "aware of
the nature of investment and transaction." 95. Even otherwise, such a stand is belied by the documents on
record. The respondent-Bank had sanctioned loan facilities in favour of 43 W.P.(C) No.12736 of 2022 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 59 MBIL by sanction letters dated 12.12.2006 and 24.4.2010. Both the loan
sanction letters required MBIL to submit quarterly statements and
audited balance sheets to the respondent-Bank. The investments in the
subsidiaries were made by MBIL from 2006 onwards till 2010. The
audited financial statements duly reflected the investments in the
subsidiaries. It is, therefore, difficult to accept that the respondent-Bank
became aware of the investments in subsidiaries, which now according
to them, is an act of diversion of funds, only in 2019 after it obtained a
copy of the Forensic Audit Report. It is equally difficult to accept that
the respondent-Bank did not review the financial statements of MBIL. 96. There are other clear circumstances which establish that the
respondent-Bank was aware of these investments. As required by the
lender banks, MBIL had submitted its Flash Report dated 18.2.2012. In
Clause 13(d) of the said Flash Report, MBIL stated that one of the
reasons for the current financial problems was the inability of MBIL to
realize the investments made in its two subsidiaries. Thus, the Flash
Report of 2012 clearly recorded the factum of investments of MBIL in
its subsidiaries. 97. During the course of consideration of the CDR Scheme of MBIL,
a meeting of all the lender banks had taken place on 20.7.2012. The
Minutes of the said Meeting records that MBIL had made investments in
its subsidiaries and that there were constraints in realizing the
investments due to financial stress. 98. The lender banks, including the respondent-Bank, subsequently
issued the FRS, which is their own internal document. Clauses 1.3.2,
1.6.1 and 5.1 of the said FRS also clearly record that MBIL had made
investments in its subsidiaries. In Clause 5.2.1, it is acknowledged that
"The Company had chalked out a clear-cut long term plan to
strategically invest in R&D activities and to develop businesses around
its core technological and commercial focus areas. In-line with its
vision, it began making strategic investments year after year. These
investments had been funded from the substantial Cash Surpluses
generated by the company in earlier years - from FY-06 onwards and
partially from FCCB issuance in FY-08." 99. An entire section in Clause 5.1.2 in the FRS is dedicated to the
"Constrained Ability to Unlock Value from Investments in Subsidiaries
under Present Circumstances‖ and a ―summary of the difficulties by
(each of) its subsidiaries. " 100. Thus, the explanation of the respondent-Bank that it issued show
cause notice on 13.3.2020, only after it became aware of the investments
in subsidiaries through the Forensic Audit Report dated 3.6.2019 is not
sustainable. It is evident that the respondent-Bank was aware of such
investments all throughout and chose to issue show cause notice to the
petitioner after an inordinate and unexplained delay of nearly eight years
since the petitioner exited MBIL and more than ten years since MBIL
made investments in its subsidiaries. Although, no limitation is assigned
in the Master Circular to initiate proceedings of wilful default, it is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 61 settled principle of law that when no time is prescribed in a statutory
scheme, the proceedings for issuance of show cause notice must be made
within a reasonable time. In the case of SEBI v. Sunil Krishnan
Khaitan44 , the Hon‟ble Supreme Court reiterated the legal position that
in the absence of limitation prescribed, the power under every enactment
must be exercised within reasonable time. What is reasonable time
depends upon the facts of each case. When a noticee takes an objection
of inordinate delay in issuance of show cause notice, the authority must
decide the same in objective manner. This prevents abuse of the power.
The relevant paragraph of the said decision reads as under:- 101. Thus understood, promptness of action is in itself a determinator
of reasonableness and objectivity. An inordinate delay in issuance of
show cause notice, despite knowledge, indicates arbitrariness and
unreasonableness. From the point of view of fairness in administrative
action, such a measure involves an element of shock to the noticee, who
could not have anticipated such a delayed action after almost a decade,
despite full disclosure. Unless properly justified, the objection of
inordinate and unexplained delay must be tested on a strict scrutiny
parameter. Applying the aforesaid test, this Court is of the view that the
Identification Committee and the Review Committee did not objectively
consider the objection of the petitioner that there is inordinate and
unexplained delay in issuance of show cause notice since the respondent-
Bank was all throughout aware of the investments made by MBIL in the
subsidiaries. The respondent-Bank chose to issue show cause notice to
the petitioner after an inordinate and unexplained delay of nearly eight
years since the petitioner exited MBIL and more than ten years since
MBIL made investments in its subsidiaries. Ordinarily, such inordinate
and unexplained delay in issuance of show cause notice is sufficient to
nullify the proceedings. 102. However, since there is an element of public interest involved
with the Master Circular, this Court in the peculiar facts of the case,
decided to consider the validity of the impugned order passed by the
Review Committee on merits as well. Whether the Petitioner committed wilful default within the
 meaning of Clause 2.1.3(b) and (c) of the Master Circular? 103. This brings us back to the primary issue i.e., whether the
respondent-Bank has erred in declaring the petitioner as wilful defaulter
on the ground that substantial investments were made by MBIL in its
subsidiaries, which amounted to diversion of funds within the meaning
of Clause 2.1.3(b) and (c) of the Master Circular. 104. Clause 3(a) of the Master Circular places an obligation on the
Identification Committee to examine the evidence of wilful default.
Clause 3(b) provides that if the Identification Committee "concludes"
that an event of wilful default has occurred, it shall issue show cause
notice. 105. This Court vide order dated 28.11.2023 had directed the
respondent-Bank to place on record the evidence on which the
Identification Committee concluded that event of wilful default has
occurred warranting issuance of show cause notice. 106. In compliance of the aforesaid direction, the Minutes of Meeting
dated 24.2.2020 of the respondent-Bank, was placed on record, which
includes the name of MBIL, which is reproduced as under: 107. In the Annexure to the said Minutes, in reference to the allegations
against the petitioner, the only evidence noted is the Forensic Audit
Report. Apart from reference to the Forensic Audit Report, there is no
other document or reasoning recorded in the Minutes to conclude that an
event of wilful default has occurred. 108. As discussed above, Clauses 3(a) and (b) of the Master Circular
enjoin the Identification Committee to examine the evidence and
conclude whether event of wilful default has occurred or not. The words
"to examine" and "to conclude", in this Court‟s opinion, would require
the banks to do so based on material and after due application of mind.
These words reflect the process which must be followed by the banks in
arriving at the conclusion of wilful default. In order to ensure that the
process is just, fair and reasonable, due application of mind is essential.
The banks should record brief reasons discussing the evidence and
reaching the conclusion. Such is the mandate of Clauses 3(a) and (b) of
the Master Circular. It is also in conformity with the principles of natural
justice and avoids arbitrary exercise of power in issuance of show cause
notice. 109. In the present case, the respondent-Bank merely referred to the
Forensic Audit Report for issuance of the show cause notice. No reasons
for reaching the conclusion of event of wilful default is recorded. The
respondent-Bank has not referred to any of the preceding documents like
the loan sanction letter, Flash Report, Minutes of lender banks, Minutes
of CDR-EG, FRS etc., which had a material bearing on the issue of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 65 reaching the conclusion whether event of wilful default had occurred or
not. The words "to examine", as noted above, essentially required the
respondent-Bank to carefully consider the entire material before arriving
at the conclusion of wilful default. Non-consideration of relevant
material falls short of requirement of examination. This Court is,
therefore, of the view that the respondent-Bank failed to discharge the
obligations mandated under Clauses 3(a) and (b) of the Master Circular
before issuing the show cause notice in the present case. 110. This Court shall now consider the validity of the impugned order
passed by the Review Committee on merits. The respondent-Bank, on
13.3.2020, had issued the show cause notice to the petitioner as to why
he should not be declared as a wilful defaulter under the Master Circular.
The show cause notice outlined six allegations of wilful default. The
relevant portion of the show cause notice is reproduced as under:- Out of which Rs.210.58 cr are receivable from Moser Baer Solar Ltd
 (MBSL) and Rs.36.45 cr from M/s Moser Baer Solar Ltd, the company
 has leased back as operating lease to M/s Moser Baer India Ltd (MBIL).
 MBSL has not used the utilities and MBSL should not have been taken the
 utilities on lease. 5. Company has maintained accounts with a large number of banks outside
 the consortium against the terms and conditions of CDR. 6. Application of Short Term fund for Long Terms Uses. The above table shows that long term uses have exceeded the long term
 sources of funds. 111. In response to the aforesaid show cause notice, the petitioner filed
its replies on different dates. The respondent-Bank, on 5.8.2021,
conducted a personal hearing. After the personal hearing, the petitioner,
on 4.9.2021, filed his written submissions. In the said written
submissions, the petitioner gave his response to each of the six
allegations of alleged wilful default enumerated in the show cause
notice. The response to allegation no.1, with which this case is
concerned was as under: provision and write off
 made amounting to Rs. 2. Investments were evaluated
 287.03 Crores. at the time of sanction of
 credit facilities on
 24.04.2010 and no
 objections thereof were
 raised. 3. These were again evaluated
 during the approval of CDR
 and were not considered to
 be an event of wilful default. 112. In the aforesaid written submission, the petitioner submitted its
defence with regard to all the six allegations including allegation no.1.
With regard to allegation no.1 that - "MBIL has made substantial
investments in subsidiaries and related entities amounting to Rs.1586.75
Crores as on 31.12.13. During the period from 01.04.13 to 31.03.15,
provision and write off made amounting to Rs. 287.03 Crores.", the
petitioner made four submissions. Firstly, no investment was made by
MBIL in the subsidiaries from "borrowed funds" but from internal
accruals PE funds/FCCB and which was disclosed to the respondent-
Bank in audited financial statements during Financial Years (FYs) 2003- 11. Secondly, the investments were evaluated at the time of subsequent
sanction of loan on 24.4.2010 and no objection regarding the same was
raised. Thirdly, the investments were also evaluated by the lender banks
at the time of formulation of the CDR Scheme, which duly recorded the
factum of investments in the subsidiaries. The CDR Scheme did not
record the investments as diversion but rather as strategic investments. And lastly, it was contended that the alleged writing off of the
investments in subsidiaries had taken place between 1.4.2013 to
31.3.2015 when the petitioner was not the Director of MBIL as he exited
the company on 16.11.2012. 113. The petitioner has further substantiated the aforesaid four points in
paragraph no.36 of his Written Submission, which reads as under:- 4304 crores during FY 2004-11. No borrowed funds from Lenders
 were used for said investments. (iii) These investments are out of ambit of RBI modified circular
 dated 01.07.2015 on wilful default for the following reasons: - Copies of these audited financial statements were provided to the
 lenders from time to time as mandated under the terms and
 conditions of loan related documents and agreements. Even Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 70 otherwise, aforesaid financial statements, being the public
documents, were legally in the knowledge or the lenders. All the
lenders had renewed the working capital and/or sanctioned term
loans from time to time despite having full knowledge about said
investments from time to time, as copies of said audited financial
statements were also provided to the lenders during detailed
appraisal process of the lenders. (v) The Final Restructuring Scheme (FRS), as approved at the time
of CDR after conducting audit and TEV study, admitted
categorically that investments of Rs 540 Cr in its subsidiary HPVL,
MI3SL, MBEL, & MB SEZ were strategic profitable investments
out of substantial cash surplus from FY 2005-06 & FCCB in FY
2007-08. BOB sanctioned the restructuring of facilities of MBJL
vide its letter dated 15.04.2013 shows that despite having complete
knowledge of said investments, Bank of Baroda had approved
incremental debt to MBIL. As mentioned above, even CBoI, MI,
had given an additional loan of Rs 50 crore to MBIL for making
investments in the NCD of its subsidiaries i.e., MBSL. (vi) Alleged provisions/ write-off during 01.04.13 to 31.03.15
pertains to the period post my exit in 2012. Hence, same cannot be
an event of declaring me wilful defaulter (vii) Moreover, such provisions/ write-off ought to be incompliance
with the provisions of the Companies Act read with Accounting
Standard- 13. Such provisioning / writing off is not an unusual financial practice,
as same practice is also adopted by Lenders / financial institution,
as is evident from the following statement of finance minister Ms.
Nirmala Sitharaman justifying such practice: - Details of such provisions/ write off were also tiled with NSE &
BSE from time to time in the form of Quarterly Limited Review
Report of MBlL. (ix) It is understood that post CDR, day to day working of MBIL
was monitored, controlled, and regulated by the Lenders through
their stock auditors and concurrent auditors. Upon being required
in JLM dated 06.05.2015, MBIL, vide its email dt. 04.07.2015
(Annexure 11) explained to CBoI about the purpose, rationale, and
realization prospectus of said investments of Rs 585.12 Cr Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 71 outstanding as on 31.12.14 net of provision of Rs 182.91 Crore. (x) In their reports from time to time, concurrent auditors verified
 and stated about then existing investments and provisions for
 diminution in value of such investments in its subsidiaries, as is
 evident from paragraph 5 and 8 of report dated March 05, 2015, of
 concurrent auditor M/s Malhotra Chopra & Associates, Chartered
 Accountants for the period of October to December 2014. (xi) To conclude there was no diversion / misuse of borrowed funds
 for making said investments in subsidiaries and alleged write off /
 provisions pertains to the period post my exit from MBIL in 2012.
 Thus, this allegation cannot be a ground to declare me a wilful
 defaulter." 114. The Identification Committee of the respondent-Bank passed an
order dated 19.8.2022 declaring the petitioner as wilful defaulter. The
Identification Committee exonerated the petitioner from alleged acts of
wilful default with regard to allegation nos.2 to 6 made in the show
cause notice. The Identification Committee held that the said allegations
pertained to a period after the petitioner ceased to be a Director of
MBIL. 115. However, in respect of allegation no.1, the Identification
Committee observed that the petitioner was a whole time Director in
MBIL. He was in complete control over the said company. When he felt
that MBIL was in trouble; he took an easy route to exit the company.
The petitioner was aware about the affairs of MBIL and the entire
siphoning/ diversion of funds took place during this period. The CDR
that was done subsequently was only an attempt by the lender banks to
revive MBIL. The Identification Committee ultimately held that
substantial investments were made in the subsidiaries of MBIL from the
account of MBIL, which triggered a shortage of funds. This action Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 72 amounts to diversion of funds as per Clauses 2.1.3(b) and (c) of the
Master Circular. Accordingly, the petitioner was declared as a wilful
defaulter. The relevant finding of the Identification Committee reads as
under: 116. Against the aforesaid order of the Identification Committee, the
petitioner, on 22.9.2022, filed a representation before the Review
Committee. The petitioner contended that the Identification Committee
has committed an error in declaring him a wilful defaulter attributing the
investment in subsidiaries of MBIL as diversion of funds from the
Master Circular. It was reiterated that the investments in the subsidiaries
were made from the internal accruals of MBIL and the same was
disclosed in the audited financial statements. The said investments were
in knowledge of lender banks at the time of finalisation of the CDR and
no objection by any lender bank was raised. The relevant part of the
appeal reads as under:- 117. The Review Committee, on 23.3.2023, passed the impugned order
and confirmed the decision of the Identification Committee with the
following findings:- The Committee observed that Mrs. Nita Puri has not given any
 representation and hence the Committee confirms the decision of
 COE of wilful defaulter declaration. The Committee observed that
 most of the points raised in the representation by Mr. Ratul Puri
 have no merit and hence not considered. The Review Committee observed that the COE has concluded that
 since substantial investments of Rs.1556.75 Crores were made in
 subsidiaries and related parties from the account of the company
 which has triggered shortage of capitals and this action of the
 company falls in the diversion as per RBI guidelines under Clause
 2.1.3(b) & (c) diversion/siphoning of funds has been observed in
 the account which is an element of wilful defaulter and hence
 Review Committee confirm the order of COE of declaration of Mrs.
 Nita Puri and Mr. Ratul Puri director of M/s Moser Baer India Ltd.
 as wilful defaulters.‖ 118. This Court has already held that the respondent-Bank was aware
about the investments in the subsidiaries at all relevant times. Hence, the
contention of the respondent-Bank that only after Forensic Audit Report Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 75 of 2019, it became aware of the alleged event of wilful default, is not
acceptable. 119. Now, the question is whether these investments amount to
"diversion" and "siphoning" of funds as per Clauses 2.1.3(b) and (c) of
the Master Circular. As discussed above, the definition of "diversion of
funds" and "siphoning of funds" in Clause 2.2.1 and Clause 2.2.2 of the
Master Circular makes it explicitly clear that the event of "diversion of
funds" or "siphoning of funds" can take place only when the "borrowed
funds" are deployed or used for a purpose other than for which the loan
was sanctioned. In other words, the Master Circular is not triggered
unless the allegation of "diversion" or "siphoning" pertains to borrowed
funds from the bank. A bank has no jurisdiction to invoke the Master
Circular unless the allegations pertain to funds borrowed from the bank.
The said provision also places an obligation on the bank to make the
judgment about "diversion of funds" or "siphoning of funds" based on
objective facts and circumstances of the case. 120. The question regarding the source of the funds which were
invested by MBIL in its subsidiaries is answered by the lender banks
including the respondent-Bank in their admittedly "own document" i.e.,
the FRS. 121. The FRS, is a document prepared by the lender banks in the year
2012 before finalisation of the CDR Scheme. Clause 1.3.2 of the FRS
records that MBIL has made investments in its subsidiaries. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 76 constraints in realising the said investments are also discussed. In Clause
1.6.1, the FRS noted the inability of MBIL to realise the investments in
the subsidiaries as a reason for the financial hardships. In Clause 1.6.5,
the lender banks noted the contents of the Flash Report submitted by
MBIL, which had disclosed the investments in the subsidiaries. Most
importantly, in Clause 5.1.2, the lender banks noted that one of the
reasons for poor performance of MBIL was constraints in realising the
investments in the subsidiaries. The lender banks noted that MBIL had
chalked out a clear strategy around its core technological and
commercial areas. Accordingly, MBIL made strategic investments in its
subsidiaries over the years. The investments in the subsidiaries by the
MBIL are funded by its "substantial cash surplus" generated by MBIL
in earlier years of FY 2006 and FY 2008. Initially, at the time of
investments, the expected profitability from these investments was
substantial. No one expected the unprecedented disruptions. Clause 5.1.2
of the FRS reads as under:- 122. Thus, the lender banks including the respondent-Bank, in their
own internal document acknowledged that they were fully aware of the
investments made by MBIL in its subsidiaries. The investments had
substantial potential of high growth and profit. No one expected the
unprecedented disruptions. These investments were made by MBIL from
its substantial cash surpluses generated in earlier years of FY 2006 and
FY 2008. It is, therefore, the lender banks‟ own stand that the
investments in the subsidiaries were made from the internal accruals/
cash surpluses of MBIL. In other words, the investments were not made
from the borrowed funds. 123. In this view of the matter, there cannot be any applicability of the
Master Circular. As discussed above, the jurisdiction under the Master
Circular can be invoked only in respect of borrowed funds. The lender
banks‟ own internal document of FRS admits the knowledge of
investments from the inception, as also the source of such investments
being the cash surpluses of MBIL from previous years. The issuance of
show cause notice in respect of allegation no.1, which does not pertain to
borrowed funds, in itself is without jurisdiction. 124. The petitioner in his Written Submission dated 4.9.2021 filed
before the Identification Committee and in his representation dated
22.9.2022 filed before the Review Committee, had explicitly taken a
defence that the investments in the subsidiaries was in the knowledge of
lender banks from the beginning. The said investments were not made Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 78 from borrowed funds but from internal accruals of MBIL in previous
years. However, neither the Identification Committee nor the Review
Committee ever adverted to the same in their respective findings. The
impugned order dated 23.3.2023, therefore, clearly failed to take into
consideration relevant material and was passed without any application
of mind. The finding of the Identification Committee, as confirmed by
the Review Committee, regarding allegation no.1 to the extent that it
holds that the investments by MBIL in its subsidiaries amounted to
"diversion" and "siphoning" of funds within the meaning of the Master
Circular is unsustainable. 125. This Court in the case of Aap Infrastructure (supra) has held that
the Identification Committee and the Review Committee are required to
refer to the reply filed by the borrower and deal with the same while
rejecting the reply. This would show application of mind and compliance
with principles of natural justice:- 126. The Kerala High Court, in similar circumstances, in the case of
Ravis Exports v. Union of India45, had quashed a wilful defaulter order
on the ground that the lender bank failed to consider the explanation
offered by the borrower:- 127. There is another important aspect of the FRS. In Clause 1.3 of the
FRS, there is a query - whether any action initiated by regulatory
agencies; Areas of concern in the working of the company/group (if
applicable). The lender banks have not outlined any concern in the
working of MBIL in the said clause. In Clause no.1.3.1, a specific
question was put - whether the lender banks found adverse movements
of funds. The answer recorded by the lender banks was- "none". Thus, in
the FRS, despite noting investments by MBIL in the subsidiaries, the 45 W.P. (C) No.2427 of 2020 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 80 lender banks consciously did not categorise them as "adverse flow of
funds." 128. Further, the lender banks in Clause 1.6.5 of the FRS noted that the
CDR-EG in its meeting held on 24.2.2012 had categorised MBIL in
Class-B as per the CDR Master Circular. The Class-B is for - 129. The learned counsel for the respondent-Bank contended that
during the CDR process, no forensic audit was conducted and hence, the
petitioner cannot take advantage of the fact that in the CDR process,
MBIL was placed in Class-B as per the CDR Master Circular. 130. This Court is unable to accept the said contention. The
respondent-Bank in its counter affidavit at paragraph no.11 has admitted,
and which is also borne out from other documents on record, that the
lender banks including the respondent-Bank were all along aware of the
investments made in the subsidiaries. The provisions of the CDR Master
Circular in Clause 3 provide for scrutiny at the stage of CDR. The CDR Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 81 Master Circular requires the lender banks to change the management of
the company where there has been "diversion of funds". In case of
"diversion of funds", wherever necessary, the banks may also carry out
forensic audit of the company. The lender banks including the
respondent-Bank neither sought the change of management nor sought
the forensic audit. Clause 6 of the CDR Scheme proscribes the banks
from entering into CDR where there is fraud or malfeasance. In the FRS,
which is banks‟ own internal document, the respondent-Bank, despite
noting investment in subsidiaries, never categorized them as diversion of
funds. Thus, the argument of the respondent-Bank, that the petitioner
cannot rely on the fact that MBIL was placed in Class-B since at that
stage no forensic audit was done, is devoid of any substance. 131. Clause 2.2.2 of the Master Circular requires the banks and its two
Committees to decide cases of wilful default objectively; after
application of mind and consideration of all relevant facts and
circumstances of the case. The Committees are required to take into
consideration the reply and explanation provided by the borrower in its
response to the show cause notice. The lenders should then arrive at a
"judgement", which should be reasonable and supported with reasons.
The two Committees, in the present case, have failed to discharge the
said burden and the impugned order has mechanically affirmed the order
passed by the Identification Committee. 132. The learned counsel for the respondent-Bank has contended that
MBIL did not take prior approval before making the investment in its Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 82 subsidiaries. This Court is not impressed with the said argument. As
discussed earlier, the respondent-Bank and other lenders were always
aware of these investments. No document has been brought to the notice
of this Court, wherein, the lender banks raised any objection to these
investments at any stage. On the contrary, the FRS of lender banks
appreciated the nature of these investments and found them to be
potentially financially sound. Further, the question for seeking prior
approval could only arise if the investments were made by borrowed
funds. Since the FRS records that the investments were made from cash
surpluses of MBIL, the question of MBIL seeking prior approval of the
respondent-Bank before making the investments does not arise. 133. Further, as rightly pointed out by learned senior counsel for the
petitioner, the respondent-Bank vide its letter dated 20.9.2007 had
intimated to MBSL (where investments were made) that against MBSL‟s
request for loan for Rs.439.21 Crores, the respondent-Bank could
provide a loan of only Rs.292.82 Crore and the balance is to be raised by
MBSL through its promoters. MBIL, being 100 percent parent company
of MBSL, had infused the differential balance of about Rs.147 Crore by
way of investments. The respondent-Bank being common lender of both
MBIL and MBSL and having access to their audited balance sheets, was
aware of such investments. 134. The Identification Committee and the Review Committee of the
respondent-Bank has held that the investments in subsidiaries "triggered
a shortage of capital" and therefore, the act of investment "falls in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 83 diversion as per RBI guidelines under Clause 2.1.3(b) & (C) diversion/
siphoning of funds..." 135. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the aforesaid
observation is totally misconceived and ignores the contents of the FRS.
In Clause 5.1.2 of the FRS, the lender banks including the respondent-
Bank recognized that the MBIL clearly had a long term plan to
strategically make investments in core technologically and commercially
focused business. In line of this, MBIL made investments in its
subsidiaries. At the time of investment, the growth potential and
expected profits were substantial. Subsequent unprecedented disruptions
could not have been anticipated.. Further, in Clause 8.1(3), the lender
banks had expressly restricted MBIL from selling "any of its fixed assets
/ investments" "without prior recommendation of the Monitoring
Committee and approval of CDR EG". Thus, according to lender banks,
the investments at the time when made, were strategic; had growth
potential and expected profits. However, when the investments did not
yield profits due to various factors, they were subsequently categorized
as "diversion/siphoning". Such an approach cannot be countenanced. In
any case, since the investments were not made from borrowed funds, the
respondent-Bank could not have invoked the Master Circular to declare
the petitioner as wilful defaulter. 136. In fact, the respondent-Bank being a party to the FRS itself ought
to have been aware of the contents of the FRS, to which it was a
signatory. With the knowledge of the contents of the FRS, there may not Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 84 have been even an occasion to issue show cause notice with regard to
allegation no.1. In the counter affidavit filed before this Court, the
respondent-Bank in paragraph no.11 has admitted that FRS is bank‟s
own document. While dealing with the Master Circular, which has civil
and penal consequences, the respondent-Bank, particularly, being a
public sector undertaking, ought to have been more vigilant. 137. The other part of allegation no.1 was that "During the period from
01.04.13 to 31.03.15, provision and write off made amounting to Rs.
287.03 Crores". This allegation, on the face of it, pertains to a period
when the petitioner was no longer a Director of MBIL. Admittedly, he
resigned as a full time Director on 16.11.2012 and exited MBIL. Thus,
no act of wilful default can be attributed to the petitioner for the period
when he was no longer the Director. In fact, in respect of allegation
nos.2 to 6, the Identification Committee and the Review Committee
exonerated the petitioner precisely on the point that the said allegations
pertained post-resignation of petitioner as the Director. However, the
Identification Committee and the Review Committee failed to apply the
same yardstick to the second part of allegation no.1, which also pertained
to a period when the petitioner was no longer a Director and no longer
associated with MBIL. Thus, the second part of allegation no.1 also
suffers from non-application of mind and cannot be sustained. 138. The learned counsel for the petitioner has also placed reliance on
Clause 17-19 of Accounting Standard 13 (AS-13) by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants to contend that it is a recognized accounting Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 85 practice to write off decline in the value of long term investment. It is
contended that while considering the allegation of writing off of the
investment, the respondent-Bank ought to have taken into consideration
standard accounting practices. The relevant Clause reads as under:- 139. Learned counsel for the respondent-Bank is unable to refer to any
document on record that while considering the evidence of wilful
default, the standard accounting practices were taken into consideration.
In any case, the respondent-Bank has not been able to point out as to
how the petitioner got benefitted from such writing off when he was
neither a director nor shareholder of either MBIL or the subsidiaries at
the time of writing off between 2013 to 2015. The writing off of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 86 investments in the subsidiaries, under the scheme of the Master Circular,
may become relevant only when it is proved that the investments were
made from the borrowed funds. Since it is an admitted position that the
investments were made from cash surpluses of MBIL, the writing off of
the investments, cannot, by itself, be regarded as an act of wilful default. 140. Clause 2.1.3 of the Master Circular provides that to declare a
person as wilful defaulter, the lender banks should bear in mind that to
categorise a default as "wilful", the same must be intentional, deliberate
and calculated. This court finds that the Identification Committee as well
as the Review Committee failed to discharge this burden objectively. On
the contrary, rather than being intentional, deliberate and calculated, the
lender banks in the FRS in Clause 5.1.2, as noted above, found that at the
time of making the investments, the growth potential and expected
profitability from them was substantial. Thus, at the time of making
these investments, the lender banks found them to be financially very
sound. If that were so, the same, subsequently cannot be categorized as
acts of wilful default which were intentional, deliberate and calculated. 141. It is also not out of place to mention that the PNB and SBBJ, who
are also lender banks to the petitioner, had issued show cause notices
making similar allegations. After considering the explanation of the
petitioner, both these banks dropped the wilful default proceedings
against the petitioner. 142. Much emphasis has been laid by learned counsel for the
respondent-Bank on the point that just when MBIL was about to be
declared as NPA, the petitioner took an easy route and resigned as the
Director of MBIL. He, therefore, contends that the resignation of
petitioner should not be given much importance as the same was a
calculated and deliberate move. This Court is unable to attach any
significant importance to this argument. Indisputably, the Indian
Companies Act, 2013 permits a Director to resign as the Director of a
company. The act of resignation is not an act of wilful default under the
Master Circular. The learned counsel for the respondent-Bank is not able
to demonstrate to this Court any act of wilful default within the meaning
of Master Circular when the petitioner was Director of MBIL. 143. Further, as discussed above, the respondent-Bank was aware about
the exit of the petitioner from MBIL. The respondent-Bank carried out
the entire CDR proceedings without petitioner‟s presence in MBIL. It
was always open to the respondent-Bank and other members of the
consortium banks to refuse CDR if the petitioner‟s continuation was felt
vital. To now contend in hindsight that the petitioner took an easy route
to exit MBIL when it was about to default, does not advance the cause of
the respondent-Bank in any manner. The mere factum of resignation as
the Director, when MBIL was not performing well, cannot be a ground
to declare him as wilful defaulter. Contents and effect of Forensic Audit Report Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 88 144. This brings this Court to consider the effect of the Forensic Audit
Report dated 3.6.2019. As recorded above, this Court, vide order dated
28.11.2023 had directed the parties to place on record the document
which showed the satisfaction arrived at by the respondent-Bank to issue
show cause notice to the petitioner. The petitioner, on 16.12.2023, placed
on record a compilation annexing Minutes of Meeting dated 24.2.2020,
wherein, the decision to issue show cause notice to the petitioner was
taken. In the said Minutes, it is recorded that the decision to issue show
cause notice is taken on the basis of the Forensic Audit Report. In the
column "Document/ Evidence", which proved the event of wilful
default, it is mentioned "Forensic Audit Report of M/s GSA and
Associates". Thus, the whole basis for issuance of show cause notice to
the petitioner is the Forensic Audit Report dated 3.6.2019. 145. However, the show cause notice issued to the petitioner does not
make any reference to the Forensic Audit Report. Admittedly, even the
copy of the Forensic Audit Report was supplied by the respondent-Bank
to the petitioner, after the issuance of the show cause notice. 146. The petitioner has contended that the respondent-Bank, for the
first time, has sought to place reliance on the Forensic Audit Report in
the counter affidavit filed before this Court. The respondent-Bank cannot
justify its Review Committee order on the basis of pleadings and
documents which did not form part of the show cause notice. It is
contended that the validity of an order has to be adjudged on the basis of
reasons assigned therein and not by subsequent explanations by way of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 89 affidavits. In support of the said contention, the petitioner has placed
reliance on the decisions of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Mohinder
Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner46 , Rashmi Metaliks Ltd. v.
Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority47 , Dipak Babaria v. State
of Gujarat48 and State of Punjab v. Bandeep Singh49 . 147. There can be no quarrel with the aforesaid proposition. However,
since the respondent-Bank is a public sector bank and deals with public
funds, this Court decided to consider the contents and effect of the
Forensic Audit Report. 148. As discussed above, Clauses 2.1.3(b) and (c) read with Clauses
2.2.1 and 2.2.2 of the Master Circular, "diversion" and siphoning" can be
triggered by a bank only in respect of the borrowed funds. The
respondent-Bank has tried to justify its show cause notice and orders
passed by the Identification Committee and Review Committee on the
basis of the Forensic Audit Report. 149. However, a perusal of the Forensic Audit Report, specially Clause
D(iv), reveals that the said Report has clarified that the source of funds
of investments made in subsidiaries was not verified in the Forensic
Audit Report as the same were made prior to the period of review. The
relevant portion of Forensic Audit Report is reproduced as under:- 150. Thus, the Forensic Audit Report did not verify the source of funds
which were invested in the subsidiaries. The respondent-Bank, could not
have issued show cause notice to the petitioner for wilful default,
without verifying the source of funds that were invested. Unless the
funds that were invested were found to be borrowed funds, the
respondent-Bank did not have jurisdiction to invoke the Master Circular.
The very genesis of "diversion" or "siphoning of" funds is dependent on
the funds being borrowed funds. The reliance placed by the respondent-
Bank on the Forensic Audit Report is clearly misconceived. The
Forensic Audit Report does not record any conclusion regarding
diversion or siphoning of funds qua the petitioner. The reliance placed
by the respondent-Bank on the Forensic Audit Report to issue show
cause notice of wilful default to the petitioner is clearly misplaced. Consequences of admitting MBIL for CDR under the CDR Scheme 151. Before parting, this Court deems it apposite to make certain
observations regarding the scheme of the CDR Master Circular. The
CDR Master Circular is equipped with several measures to ensure that
cases involving frauds or diversion of funds with mala fide intent are not
admitted for CDR. 152. These include provisions like Clause 6.3 read with paragraph no.4
of Annexure III, which renders corporates indulging in fraud and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 91 malfeasance as ineligible for CDR. Further, CDR scheme provides for
four Classes - A to D, out of which Categories C and D relate to cases of
diversion of funds and the said categorisation has to be done by the
lenders on their own. 153. The classification has a direct bearing on eligibility as also the
conditions to be imposed upon the borrower. The lower the category, the
more stringent the conditions to be imposed upon a borrower in
accordance with paragraphs C and D of Annexure IV. Significantly,
"Before CDR Reference/Approval", Clause 3.3 of CDR Scheme
expressly empowers banks to commission a Forensic Audit "wherever
necessary and specially in cases of diversion of funds. " 154. The aforesaid provisions in the CDR scheme lead to the
conclusion that the categorization of a borrower in one of the categories
between A and D has to be based on an objective satisfaction. 155. This Court is of the view that it is incumbent upon banks who are
dealing with public funds and discharging a public duty to make
appropriate enquiries as to whether a borrower is in genuine financial
difficulty or whether there exists any event(s) of fraud and malfeasance.
If the lender banks find fraud or malfeasance, the CDR-EG must either
refuse CDR completely or impose such additional onerous conditions as
provided in the CDR Scheme itself. 156. In the present case, the lender banks were aware of the
investments made by MBIL in its subsidiaries. This fact is part of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV 92 documents leading to the finalization of the CDR scheme. The
investments were treated as strategic with growth potential and expected
profits. The investments were found to have been made from the cash
surpluses of MBIL. The lender banks did not find these investments as
diversion or siphoning of borrowed funds. The lender banks placed
MBIL in Class-B of CDR Master Circular which cannot be assigned if
there is diversion of funds. They found no occasion to order a forensic
audit of MBIL either before finalization of CDR scheme or after its
failure. The lender banks, therefore, never treated the investments in
subsidiaries as an act of diversion or siphoning either during finalization
of the CDR scheme or after its failure. 157. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the reasons assigned in the
impugned order dated 23.3.2023 passed by the Review Committee
confirming the petitioner as wilful defaulter under the Master Circular
are unsustainable and therefore, the impugned order is accordingly
quashed and set aside. The petition is allowed in the aforesaid terms and
disposed of alongwith pending application(s), if any. (PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV)
 JUDGE

MARCH 01, 2024/p/p'ma Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV