former Judge of this Court as sole arbitrator in terms
 of Clause 33(d) of the purchase order dated 10­5­
 2014. It will be noticed that the facts in the present
 case are somewhat similar. The APO itself is of the
 year 2014, whereas the appointment by the Managing
 Director is after the Amendment Act, 2015, just as in TRF Ltd. [TRF Ltd. v. Energo Engg. Projects Ltd. ,
 (2017) 8 SCC 377 (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 72]
 Considering that the appointment in TRF Ltd. [TRF
 Ltd. v. Energo Engg. Projects Ltd. , (2017) 8 SCC 377
 Digitally
 signed by
 DIVYAM LILA
 DIVYAM
Civil Suit No. 220/20 Date: ii. 19. However, the learned Senior Advocate appearing
 on behalf of the respondent has argued that Section
 12(4) would bar the appellant's application before the
 Court. Section 12(4) will only apply when a challenge
 is made to an arbitrator, inter alia, by the same party
 who has appointed such arbitrator. This then refers to
 the challenge procedure set out in Section 13 of the
 Act. Section 12(4) has no applicability to an
 application made to the Court under Section 14(2) to
 determine whether the mandate of an arbitrator has
 terminated as he has, in law, become unable to
 perform his functions because he is ineligible to be
 appointed as such under Section 12(5) of the Act.
 iii. 20. This then brings us to the applicability of the
 proviso to Section 12(5) on the facts of this case.
 Unlike Section 4 of the Act which deals with deemed
 waiver of the right to object by conduct, the proviso to Section 12(5) will only apply if subsequent to disputes
 having arisen between the parties, the parties waive
 the applicability of sub­section (5) of Section 12 by an
 express agreement in writing. For this reason, the
 Digitally
 signed by
 DIVYAM LILA Civil Suit No. 220/20 DIVYAM Date: First and foremost, Section 12(5) of the Act itself
 begins with a non­obstante clause stipulating that Digitally signed by DIVYAM Civil Suit No. 220/20 DIVYAM LILA

DTDC express Ltd. vs. Om Enterprises and Anr . Section 12(5) would apply notwithstanding any prior
 agreement to the contrary. Secondly, the relevant date
 to decide the applicability of Section 12(5) is not the
 date of the agreement but the date on which the
 Arbitration commences. By virtue of Section 21 of the
 Act, the Arbitration commences when the notice
 invoking arbitration is sent. In the present case, the
 notice invoking the arbitration agreement was sent by
 the petitioner on 28.10.2018, which is after the
 insertion of Section 12(5) of the Act by the Amendment
 Act, 2016 . Thus, there is no doubt that Section 12(5) would apply to the present case and the Company is
 debarred in law from appointing the Arbitrator."
 g. The abovementioned judicial principles indubitably proves
 that the appointment of the Ld. Sole Arbitrator unilaterally
 and solely in the present case, is violative of Section 12(5) of
 the provisions of the Act and therefore, a nullity. Therefore,
 any proceedings much less an arbitral award, emanating out
 of an Arbitrator whose very appointment is illegal, is non­est
 in law and a nullity, then any award passes/ rendered by it
 suffers from a jurisdictional infirmity which goes to the root
 of the matter and as such the instant execution proceedings
 deserves to be dismissed. h. Furthermore, the decree as sought to be enforced against the
 Judgement Debtor is patently illegal as it has been obtained Digitally signed by DIVYAM Civil Suit No. 220/20 DIVYAM LILA
DTDC express Ltd. vs. Om Enterprises and Anr. LILA Date : iii. Deepa Bhargava Vs Mahesh Bhargava (Civil Appeal 7310­7311/2008 SC)­ the said judgment is filed to
 showcase that the executing court cannot go behind the
 decree. 331,SC)­ the said judgment is with respect to Arbitration Act of 1940 and the present case is with
 respect to Arbitration Act of 1996. v. Vasudev Dhanjibhai Modi Vs Rajabhal Abdul Rehman (1970 AIR 1475) ­ the said judgment relied upon to
 showcase that executing court cannot be behind the
 decree and cannot decide upon the whether the decree
 is incorrect in law and facts. vi. Jnanendra Mohan Bhaduri Vs Rabindra Nath
 Chakravrti (AIR 1933 PC 61) 1895­ the relevancy of the said judgment is not made out and the same is with
 respect to Arbitration Act 1899. vii. M/s Induslnd Bank Ltd vs Sunil Kumar Sahu (HC 49­
 54 Chhattishgarh WP.(227) No.691/2016. D. Brief submissions on behalf of judgment debtors: d. Scope of inquiry of an executing court vis­à­vis objections
 under Section 47 of the CPC, 1908 as to the executability of a
 decree/ award. It is submitted that it is no longer res integra
 that an executing court can neither travel behind the decree
 nor sit in appeal over the same. However, it is an equally
 settled position that an executing court can allow objections
 vis­av­is the executability of the decree if it is found that the
 same is void ab initio and is a nullity, apart from the ground
 that it is not capable of execution under the law, either
 because the same was passed in ignorance of such provision
 of law or the law was promulgated making a decree
 unexecutable after its passing. Reliance is placed upon the
 Digitally
 signed by
 DIVYAM LILA
 DIVYAM Date: dicta of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Brakewel Automotive
 Components (India) Private Limited v. P.R. Selvam
 Alagappan , reported as (2017) 5 SCC 371.
 e. No requirement under law to necessarily file an application
 for setting aside an award under Section 34 of the Arbitration
 Act for a null/ void and non­executable/ unenforceable
 decree/ award­It is submitted that the primary and sole
 contention of the Decree Holder, as evident from their reply
 to the objections filed by the Judgement Debtors and
 additional written arguments/ submissions filed right before
 the final hearing is to the non­maintainability of the
 objections filed by the Judgement Debtors before an
 executing court i.e., this Hon'ble Court.
 f. The Decree Holder has maintained/ contended that the
 objections as raised by the Judgment Debtors in the present
 proceedings ought to have been taken before the competent
 court in an Application seeking setting aside the arbitral
 award under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. Ergo,once the
 Judgement Debtor has failed to file said remedy, the same
 cannot be entertained by an executing court i.e. Hon'ble
 Court under the garb of objections as to the executability/
 enforceability of there/ award. g. It is firstly submitted that the judgments cited above clearly
 elucidates the settled position in law that objections as to the
 executability/ enforceability of a decree/ award being nullity/
 Digitally
 signed by
Civil Suit No. 220/20 DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
 Date: k. Lastly, it is submitted that the fraud as sought to be
 Digitally
 signed by
 DIVYAM LILA
 DIVYAM
Civil Suit No. 220/20 Date: perpetrated by the Decree Holder is evident from the fact that
 a cursory glance of the arbitral award dated 03.07.2018 would
 show that though the title of the award reflects that it has been
 passed against M/s. Om Enterprises and Anr. However, the
 findings by the Ld. Sole Arbitrator have been recorded
 against M/s. Usha Enterprises. Such a glaring omission,
 having not been admittedly rectified by the Decree Holder by
 taking recourse to the Section 33 of the Arbitration Act, even
 after two years of its passing (award is dated 03.07.2019;
 execution is sought in the year 2020) clearly exposes the
 contumacious conduct of the Decree Holder and warrants
 outright dismissal of the present execution/ enforcement
 proceedings with exemplary costs in favour of the Judgment
 Debtors. E. Observations and conclusion: f. Hence, in conjoint reading of the catena of judgments
 deciding upon the various aspects of the power of the
 executing court to adjudicate under Sec. 47 CPC with
 respect to arbitration award as decree on ground of
 nullity and void ab­initio; I hold that in the present case, it Digitally signed by DIVYAM Civil Suit No. 220/20 DIVYAM LILA

DTDC express Ltd. vs. Om Enterprises and Anr. LILA Date :