आयकर अपील य अ धकरण, चंडीगढ़ यायपीठ - चंडीगढ़। IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 CHANDIGARH - BENCH 'A'

 BEFORE S/SHRI N.K. SAINI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND
 RAJPAL YADAV, JUDICIAL MEMBER ITA No.577/CHD/2019 नधारण वष/ Asstt.Year: 2014-15
M/s.Loil Continental Foods Ltd. Pr.CIT (Central)
SCO 18-19, Sector 9-D Vs. Ludiana. Chandigarh: 2. Each appellant has taken seven grounds of appeal which are not in
consonance with the Rule 8 of the Income Tax (Appellate Tribunal),
1962; they are descriptive and argumentative in nature. In brief
grievance of the appellant is that the ld.Commissioner has erred in taking
cognizance under section 263 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and thereby
erred in set setting aside assessment orders passed in the case of each
appellant on 30.12.2016 under section 143(3) of the Act. 3. It is pertinent to note that facts on all vital points are common
except variation in the quantum, and even at the time of hearing, the
main arguments have been addressed in the case of Loil Continental
Foods Ltd. ("LCFL" for short), therefore for the facility of reference,
we take up the facts mainly from "LCFL". 4. Brief facts of the case are that appellants were engaged in trading
of foodgrains viz. paddy and rice. The National Spot Exchange Ltd.
("NSEL" for short) was constituted for taking up the activities of spot
exchange for trading in commodities, and it is a platform provided to
enable buyers and sellers to transact on the spot against actual delivery
of the goods through licenced members appointed by the NSEL. All the
appellants were appointed as licenced members to deal in Paddy. For
this purpose, a settlement account of licensed member is maintained by
NSEL with a designated bank in which amount of net proceeds are
credited to settlement account. In the case of "LCFL" settlement
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 3 account was opened with HDFC Bank, Feroze Gandhi Market,
Ludhiana. The appellants have filed their returns of income
electronically and notices for scrutinizing returns were issued under section 143(2) on 4.8.2015. The ld.AO after issuance of questionnaire
under section 142(1) as well as show cause notice under section 143(2) passed scrutiny assessment orders in the case of each appellant under section 143(3) on 30.12.2016. The ld.Commissioner on perusal of the
record formed an opinion that the assessment orders passed by the AO
for the Asstt.Year 2014-15 in the cases of the appellants were erroneous
in so far as it caused prejudice to the interest of the Revenue, and
therefore, action under section 263 deserves to be taken against these
orders. Accordingly, he recorded reason for taking action under section
263 in the case of each assessee, and issued a show cause notice under section 263 of the Act. A perusal of these show cause notices
reproduced in each impugned order passed in the case of appellant
would reveal that almost verbatim observations are being made by the
ld.Commissioner except some variation of the quantum amount.
Therefore, we take note of show-cause notice issued in the case of
"LCFL" which reads as under: (iii) Action u/s 1 .33A was also carried out at SCO-18-19,
Sector-9D, Chandigarh being the office of the assessee company.
During the course of survey documents in form of Annexure-A-l to
A-6, 13 CDs as per A-7, 5 CDs as per A-8 and one hard disk were
impounded. However, these documents and data contained in CDs
and in hard disks were never examined or verified to determine its
revenue implication if any. ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 5 (iv) Similar action u/s 133A was carried out at 807, Kailash
Building, 26, K.G. Marg, New Delhi and 4048, Nay a Bazaar, New
Delhi being the offices of the assessee company. During the survey
four hard disks were impounded from 807, Kailash Building, 26,
K.G. Marg, New Delhi. However, the data contained in hard disks
was never examined or verified to determine its revenue
implication if any during proceedings. (v) It is also noted from the assessment records for the A.Y.. 2013-
14 that there was a report by Sharp and Tannan Associates dated
02.04.2014 referred to by the AO in the assessment order, stating
that an amount of Rs.338.40 crore was recoverable from the
assessee by NSEL when the trading on NSEL platform was
suspended by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, New Delhi on
31.07.2013. However, the AO failed to consider the finding of the
referred report as to whether it had any implications for this
Assessment year also. No inquiries whatsoever or verification
from NSEL or any other agency were made despite of the fact that
the nefarious scam arising out of trading on online exchange
platform of NSEL had been widely reported. (vi) Apart from the survey findings, examination of the balance
sheet for F.Y. 2013-14 shows that the followings issues were also
not examined, less inquired into or verified into by the A.O before
completing the assessment ofA.Y. 2014-15. a. There were outstanding advances from buyers of Rs.25.38
crores, which were received during the year itself. The A.O.,
however failed to verify the nature and genuineness of these
advances when no sales has been shown by the company during
the year. During assessment proceedings it was submitted by the
assesses that these transactions were made through banking
channel. However, the A.O failed to verify the genuineness of these
advances. b. Company has shown opening stock of finished goods of Rs. 2.36
crores and during the year no sales has been shown yet no stock
was found during the survey on 22.08.2013. The A.O failed to
consider the findings of survey on this issue in the assessment
proceedings. ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 6 c. . There, are huge trade payables i.e. Rs. 64.31 Crores, despite
the fact that company has not made any sale/ purchase during the
year. The A.O failed to make necessary inquiries regarding these
trade credits. Even the details of such creditors were not called
for. d. There is an increase of Rs. 15.44 Crores under the head 'short
term loans and advances, despite the fact that the company has not
made any sale/purchase during the year. The A. O failed to
examine the genuineness and purpose of these loans advanced
during the year. Even the details of such advances were not called
for. e. Company has shown dividend income of Rs.12,50,000/- during
the year which has been claimed as exempt but AO has not
examined as to whether any disallowances u/s 14A was required to
be made. No inquiry/verification in this regard has been made. (vii) Apart from the above, the impounded documents/hard
disks/CDs were required to be examined in the light of allegations
about the genuineness of purchases, source of payments against
equal purchases and user of funds received in view of reported
substantial outstanding to the National spot exchange Limited
(NSEL), after the payment crisis of NSEL surfaced in July, 2013. (viii) The criticality of these issues, their examination/verification,
to determine their implication on the assessment of the company
cannot be over emphasized. This, viewed, in the perspective of
allegation(s) about dubious nature of transaction being carried on
the platform of NSEL resulting in the suspension of trading on
NSEL platform on 31.07.2013 only highlights that it was
imperative upon the Assessing Officer to have made necessary
verifications and inquiries before determining the income of the
assessee for the A.Y. 2014-15. From the perusal of the case
records, it is found that there is nothing in record to show that the
A.O has examined the issues arising out the findings of the survey
and the other issues highlighted above. No proper inquiries and
verification have been made before completing the assessment for
the relevant year. ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 7 02. In light of the above, it is evident that the assessment order
 passed on 30.12.2016 is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to
 the interest of revenue within the meaning of sub clause (a) of
 Explanation 2 of section 263(1) of the FT Act, 1961. 03. In view of the above, an opportunity of being heard in the
 matter was given to you vide this office letter No. 812 dated
 30.01.2019 at the address SCO 18-19, Sector 9-D, Chandigarh.
 However, the said letter was received back un-served with the
 comment of the postal authorities "LEFT". 04. You are being given an final opportunity of being heard in the
 matter. If you wish to furnish any written submissions or be heard
 in the matter personally/through authorized, representative (AR),
 you may do so on 19.02.2019 at 12:00 PM. In case nothing is
 heard from you by the appointed date, it will be assumed that you
 have nothing to say in the matter and the proceedings will be
 concluded on merits and as per law." 5. In response to the show cause notice, the appellants have filed
detailed replies. The replies have also been reproduced by the
ld.Commissioner. However, while making an analysis of the finding of
the ld.Commissioner, we would refer the stand taken by the assessee
against the show cause notice. After hearing the assessees, the
ld.Commissioner has set aside the assessment orders and directed the
AO to reframe the assessment orders after conducting inquiries. 6. We have considered rival contentions and gone through the record
carefully. Section 263 has a direct bearing on the controversy, therefore,
it is pertinent to take note of this section. It reads as under:- tax Officer on the basis of the directions issued by the
 Joint Commissioner under section 144A ; (ii) an order made by the Joint Commissioner in exercise
 of the powers or in the performance of the functions of an
 Assessing Officer conferred on, or assigned to, him
 under the orders or directions issued by the Board or by
 the Chief Commissioner or Director General or
 Commissioner authorized by the Board in this behalf
 under section 120 ; (b) "record shall include and shall be deemed always to
 have included all records relating to any proceeding
 under this Act available at the time of examination by the
 Commissioner; (c) where any order referred to in this sub-section and
 passed by the Assessing Officer had been the subject
 matter of any appeal filed on or before or after the 1st
 day of June, 1988, the powers of the Commissioner under
 this sub-section shall extend and shall be deemed always
 to have extended to such matters as had not been
 considered and decided in such appeal. (2) No order shall be made under sub-section (1) after the
 expiry of two years from the end of the financial year in
 which the order sought to be revised was passed. ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 9 (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2),
 an order in revision under this section may be passed at any
 time in the case of an order which has been passed in
 consequence of, or to give effect to, any finding or direction
 contained in an order of the Appellate Tribunal, National
 Tax Tribunal, the High Court or the Supreme Court. Explanation.- In computing the period of limitation for the
 purposes of sub-section (2), the time taken in giving an
 opportunity to the assessee to be reheard under the proviso
 to section 129 and any period during which any proceeding
 under this section is stayed by an order or injunction of any
 court shall be excluded." 7. On a bare perusal of the sub section-1 would reveal that powers of
revision granted by section 263 to the learned Commissioner have four
compartments. In the first place, the learned Commissioner may call for
and examine the records of any proceedings under this Act. For calling
of the record and examination, the learned Commissioner was not
required to show any reason. It is a part of his administrative control to
call for the records and examine them. The second feature would come
when he will judge an order passed by an Assessing Officer on
culmination of any proceedings or during the pendency of those
proceedings. On an analysis of the record and of the order passed by the
Assessing Officer, he formed an opinion that such an order is erroneous
in so far as it is prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue. By this stage
the learned Commissioner was not required the assistance of the
assessee. Thereafter the third stage would come. The learned
Commissioner would issue a show cause notice pointing out the reasons
for the formation of his belief that action u/s 263 is required on a
particular order of the Assessing Officer. At this stage the opportunity to
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 10 the assessee would be given. The learned Commissioner has to conduct
an inquiry as he may deem fit. After hearing the assessee, he will pass
the order. This is the 4th compartment of this section. The learned
Commissioner may annul the order of the Assessing Officer. He may
enhance the assessed income by modifying the order. 8. At this stage, before considering the multi-fold contentions of the
ld. Representatives, we deem it pertinent to take note of the fundamental
tests propounded in various judgments relevant for judging the action of
the CIT taken u/s 263 . The ITAT in the case of Mrs. Khatiza S.
Oomerbhoy Vs. ITO, Mumbai , 101 TTJ 1095, analyzed in detail various
authoritative pronouncements including the decision of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Malabar Industries 243 ITR 83 and has
propounded the following broader principle to judge the action of CIT
taken under section 263 . (i) The CIT must record satisfaction that the order of the
 AO is erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the
 Revenue. Both the conditions must be fulfilled. (ii) Sec. 263 cannot be invoked to correct each and every
 type of mistake or error committed by the AO and it
 was only when an order is erroneous that the section
 will be attracted. (iii) An incorrect assumption of facts or an incorrect
 application of law will suffice the requirement of order
 being erroneous. (iv) If the order is passed without application of mind,
 such order will fall under the category of erroneous
 order. (v) Every loss of revenue cannot be treated as prejudicial
 to the interests of the Revenue and if the AO has
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 11 adopted one of the courses permissible under law or
 where two views are possible and the AO has taken
 one view with which the CIT does not agree. If cannot
 be treated as an erroneous order, unless the view
 taken by the AO is unsustainable under law (vi) If while making the assessment, the AO examines the
 accounts, makes enquiries, applies his mind to the
 facts and circumstances of the case and determine the
 income, the CIT, while exercising his power under s
 263 is not permitted to substitute his estimate of
 income in place of the income estimated by the AO. (vii) The AO exercises quasi-judicial power vested in his
 and if he exercises such power in accordance with law
 and arrive at a conclusion, such conclusion cannot be
 termed to be erroneous simply because the CIT does
 not fee stratified with the conclusion. (viii) The CIT, before exercising his jurisdiction under s. 263 must have material on record to arrive at a
 satisfaction. (ix) If the AO has made enquiries during the course of
 assessment proceedings on the relevant issues and the
 assessee has given detailed explanation by a letter in
 writing and the AO allows the claim on being satisfied
 with the explanation of the assessee, the decision of
 the AO cannot be held to be erroneous simply because
 in his order he does not make an elaborate discussion
 in that regard. 9. Apart from the above principles, we deem it appropriate to make
reference to the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs. Sun Beam Auto reported in 227 CTR 113 and Gee Vee
Enterprises Ltd vs. Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax (99 ITR 375).
In the case of Sun Beam Auto, the Hon'ble High Court has pointed out a
distinction between lack of inquiry and inadequate inquiry. If there is a
lack of enquiry, then the assessment order can be branded as erroneous. ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 12 The following observations of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court are worth to
note: 10. In the case of Gee Vee Enterprise vs. Commissioner of Income
Tax reported in 99 ITR page 375, the Hon'ble court has expounded the
approach of ld. Assessing Officer while passing assessment order. The
observation of the Hon'ble court on pages 386 of journal read as under:- further noted that all the appellants were members of this exchange and
the department had information that certain concerns including the
appellants engaged in commodity trading at this exchange, were
involved in issuing bogus warehouse receipts which were not supported
by actual delivery, and contracts for sale and purchases were entered into
with a view to raise finance, and not with intention to provide delivery of
commodity. Thereafter, the ld.Commissioner took cognizance of the
fact that a survey was carried out at the premises of the assessees on
22.8.2013. The ld.Commissioner made reference with regard to the data
base of NSEL whereby it has been shown that aggregate stock of paddy
valued at Rs.775.29 crores ought to be available with M/s.Loil
Continental Ltd. The ld.Commissioner has made reference to a report
by Sharp and Tannan Associates ("S&TA" for short) dated 2.4.2014
exhibiting the fact that the amount of Rs.338.40 crores was recoverable
from M/s.Loil Continental Foods Ltd. Similarly, an amount of
Rs.287.48 crores and Rs.85.19 crores was recoverable from M/s.Loil
Health Foods Ltd., and M/s.Loil Overseas Foods Ltd. On the basis of
this information as well as discovery of loose papers during the course of
survey at Khamanon, he harboured a belief that, had these materials
been considered by the AO probably a higher income ought to have been
assessed. In response to the above show cause notice, the assessee has
filed a detailed reply which has been reproduced by the ld.Commissioner
in the impugned order. We have gone through this reply as well as
other replies given by the assessees. The stand of the assessee was that
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 15 as far as the NSEL data exhibiting availability of stock of paddy of
Rs.775.29 crores as on 6.8.2013 and revealed during the course of
survey is concerned, this aspect was examined elaborately by the AO in
the Asstt.Year 2013-14. The AO has considered outcome of the survey,
but did not make any addition. The addition which has been made in the
case of Loil Continental Foods Ltd. by the AO in the Asstt.Year 2013-14
of Rs.338.40 cores was based on the report of "S&TA". The AO
harboured a belief that since "S&TA" indicated the outstanding dues of
NSEL towards these appellants, and the appellants are not showing any
amount payable, and therefore all these expenditure to be construed as
income of these appellants under the head "unaccounted income".
Assessment orders for the Asstt.Year 2013-14 in the case of all the
appellants are placed on the paper books, and for the purpose of
reference, we take note of the observation of the AO in the case of Loil
Continental Food Ltd., which reads as under: ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 16 6. The ld.Commissioner has made an analysis of the stand taken by
the appellants. In para-8 of the impugned order while dealing replies of
the assessees, the ld.Commissioner has observed that from the opening
paragraphs of replies submitted by all the appellants exhibit the details
of sequence of the assessment proceedings for the Asstt.Year 2014-15.
It is general statement made by him that the AO had issued
questionnaire, and they have furnished the replied. Qua that proposition,
the ld.Commissioner has no dispute; but he was of the opinion that
whether the AO had made investigation Had he applied his mind ? He
could not close his eyes on the material available before him. He also
made reference to replies given by Shri Janakraj Singh during the course
of survey. He thereafter observed that as far as the inquiry conducted in
the Asstt.Year 2013-14 is concerned, it is not understandable, how those
inquires are relevant for Asstt.Year 2014-15 also. On the basis of this
inquiry, how one can conclude that no action under section 263 is
required to be taken. He also observed that on one hand, the assessee is
asking the material collected during the course of survey, and on the
other hand, the assessee is submitting that such material was considered
by the AO in the Asstt.Year 2013-14, and therefore the stand of the
assessee is not sustainable. 7. Before adverting to record a finding on these issues, we would like
to remind ourselves with judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
rendered in the case of ITO Vs. DG Housing Projects Ltd. , 343 ITR 329
(Del). We have brought this judgment to the notice of the ld.CIT-DR
during the course of hearing also. Hon'ble Delhi High Court has laid
down that the ld.Commissioner is duty bound to record a categorical
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 17 finding or conduct inquiry, and thereafter, record a categorical finding as
to how the order which is sought to be revised under section 263 is
erroneous. The ld.Commissioner cannot remit the issue to find out what
was the error committed by the AO to the AO himself. We deem it
appropriate to take note of the finding by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court,
which reads as under: 8. The charge of the ld.Commissioner is that the assessment order is
erroneous because the AO failed to examine certain material viz.
outcome of the survey; details reflected in NSEL data base; report of
"S&TA" and thus, such assessment order has caused prejudice to the
interest of the revenue, and therefore, it deserves to be set aside. The
question before us is, whether the material referred by the
ld.Commisisoner is of such an importance, which can impact
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 19 assessabilty of the income of the assessee, and if that be so, then only it
be construed that the prejudice will be caused to the Revenue. Let us
consider all these three aspects. As observed earlier, first observation
made by the ld.Commsisioner is with respect to the information revealed
in the data base of the NSEL. The second observation referred by him is
the report of "S&TA", and the third discovery of the papers in
Annexure-A-1 1 to 250 and Annexure-A/2, 1 to 206 during the course of
survey. No doubt no discussion is available in the assessment order qua
these materials. It is pertinent to note that the ld.AO has issued a
questionnaire under section 142(1) , and this questionnaire is available on
page no.1 to 6. He called for information from all appellants on 37
counts. They have filed their detailed submissions along with audited
accounts. The ld.AO made discussion, and then passed impugned
assessment orders. It is further observed that no-doubt the assessment
year 2013-14 is altogether an independent year. The inquiry conducted
in that year might not have any bearing on the assessment of income for
the Asstt.Year 2014-15, but while evaluating and branding an
assessment order as an erroneous, whether that information which has
been discussed in the immediately preceding assessment year, could be
relevant information for formation of belief at the end of the
ld.Commissioner that the assessment order in the Asstt.Year 2014-15 is
to be revised. To our mind, a discussion made in the Asstt.Year 2013-14
on these materials, and thereafter no action was taken by the AO on the
basis of the material, is an important factor which deserves to be taken
into consideration. During the course of hearing, our attention was
drawn with regard to the questionnaire issued by the AO in the
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 20 preceding Asstt.Year 2013-14. We take note of this questionnaire in the
case of M/s.Loil Continental Foods Ltd. that reads as under: Yours faithfully,
 Sd/- (INDU BALA SAINI)
 Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax
 Central Circle-III, Ludhiana. vi.) Names of the directors with PAN Numbers and sister concerns with PAN
 Numbers. vii) Copies of all banks accounts mentioning debit and credits alongwith copies
 of bank statements. viii.) Details of stock of commodities which; have been., delivered, to NSEL
 accredited godown from 01 .04.2012 till date in the following format:- c.) Photocopies of the impounded documents Annexure A-1 to A-4
 (containing Computer Hard disk) impounded from M/s Loil Overseas Foods
 Ltd., 807, Kailash Building, 26, K.G. Marg, New Delhi. may be taken from this office at any time (If not already taken). 2. Statements of Sh. Janak Raj Singh dated 22.08.2013 u/s 131 is
 enclosed." 9. Similarly, questionnaires have been issued to other two concerns,
and they have submitted a detailed reply. The ld.AO thereafter again
issued questionnaire on 24.3.2016, and the details asked for were replied
by the assessee. The questionnaire issued by the ld.AO is noted here as
under: 10. We also incline to take note of questionnaire issued on 26.3.2016
which reads as under: • However the system of operation with N'SEL has not been
 explained viz. payment/ any roll over allowed if yes, term and
 conditions/whether the buyer and seller compulsory
 required to take the delivery ? 2. Kindly explain the debit & credit entries in the settlement
account with HDFC bank. 3. Copy of ledger account of Lakshmi Energy & Foods
Ltd./(Lakshmi Overseas Industries Ltd.) not produced. To produce
the same. 4. Annexure D produced is details of the alleged purchases made
by M/s Lakshmi Energy & Foods Ltd. from the commission agents.
The same be given ascending & Descending order on the basis of
quantity purchased. 5. To produce copies of accounts of Top 100 commission agents
in the books of Lakshmi Energy & Food Ltd.(Lakshmi Overseas
Industries Ltd.). 6. To produce one sample copy of T form issued by the commission
agents in respect of the Top 100 Commission agents & to M/s
Lakshmi Energy & Food Ltd. 7. Original bank account of M/s Lakshmi Energy & Foods Ltd.
and copy of bank account in the books with explanation/narration
of debit & credit entries. 8. Original bank account of Sh. Balbir Singh Uppal and copy of
bank account in the books with explanation/narration of debit &
credit entries. 9. Copy of account with narrations of M/s Ganeshay Overseas
Industries Ltd. with assessment particulars /PAN / P & L A/c /
Balance Sheet with annexure with narration of bank account
(Debit / Credits). 11. All these questionnaires were duly replied; they were discussed by
the AO. But she did not make any addition on the basis of information
in the data of NSEL. She did not make any addition qua loose papers
found during the course of survey, because survey was conducted much
before the assessment year 2013-14. She had made specific reference
about the loose paper in the questionnaire dated 13.3.2016 extracted
(supra). Only addition made by the AO is based upon "S&TA" report.
The addition made on the basis of "S&TA" report travelled to the
Tribunal, and the Tribunal has deleted the addition even summoned the
AO to the Tribunal for pointing out as to how he has made addition. The
finding recorded by the Tribunal in the case of Loil Continental Foods
Ltd. in ITA No.98/CHD/2017 and ITA No.99/CHD/2017, which reads
as under: 12. Analysis of these materials would indicate that when the ld.
Commissioner was taking action under section 263 in the month of
March, 2019, order of the Tribunal was before him. The assessee has
demonstrated that specific inquiries qua the information revealed in
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 31 NSEL data base as well as in the survey have been examined in the
assessment proceedings in the Asstt.Year 2013-14 elaborately. The
ld.Commissioner did not try to analysis any of the details. He just
noticed the information half-heartedly and observed that the assessment
orders are erroneous. If these findings of the ld.Commissioner are being
examined in the light of law laid down by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in the case of ITO Vs. DG Housing Projects Ltd. (supra), then it would
reveal that the ld.Commissioner has merely raised suspicion on the basis
of certain information which were already in the knowledge of the AO,
not only in this assessment year, but in earlier assessment years. The
ld.Commissioner has not conclusively recorded any finding as to what is
the ultimate impact of this information on the assessability of these
appellants, and how non-consideration of this made the assessment order
as erroneous. The AO has taken note of all these things, because these
very materials were available in the immediately preceding year. The
only addition made and confirmed by the ld.CIT(A) in the Asstt.Year
2013-14 has been struck down. Thus, the ld.Commissioner ought to
have looked into order of the ITAT, and thereafter, analysed the details,
whether any income has escaped on account of failure of the AO to
conduct adequate inquiry (in the opinion of CIT). The ld.Commissioner
nowhere made out that case. 13. In para-15 of the impugned order, the ld.Commissioner recorded a
finding that the AO ought to have called for report of "S&TA", and then
should have examined. The discussion made by the ld.Commissioner
with regard to this issue is worth to note, which reads as under: This only buttresses the premise that the AO did not call for the Report
 of Sharp and Tannan despite reference to the same in assessment
 proceedings for A.Y. 2013-14 and for the A.Y. 2014-15. The AR has
 further stated that addition was made w.r.t certain documents of Sharp
 and Tannan in the A.Y. 2013-14 which again cannot be a basis for
 addition in A.Y. 2014-15. This warped argument of suggested
 replication of proceedings of A.Y. 2013-14 to A.Y. 2014-15 has been
 sufficiently dealt with in this order. Suffice, it is to say that the AO
 should have called for the report of Sharp and Tannan, examine the
 transactions of the assessee company with reference thereto and draw
 conclusions before completing the assessment for A.Y. 2014-15." 14. The above reasoning suggests in itself that how the
ld.Commssioner has lost sight of all the relevant materials. In the
Asstt.Year 2013-14 on the basis of "S&TA" report, an addition of
Rs.338 crore was made in the case of Loil Continental Foods Ltd,
Rs.287, and Rs.85 crores in the hands of other two appellants. We have
extracted relevant part of the assessment order in para-5 of this order.
From the questionnaire issued in the Asstt.Year 2013-14 and the
ultimate addition made by the AO do suggest that the report of "S&TA" 16. This questionnaire was replied and the assessee has submitted all
details in annexure-15 along with its reply. On page no.21 of the paper
book, the assessee has annexed list of advances from the buyers. It is
from Lakshmi Energy Foods Ltd., address : SCO-18-19, Sector-9D,
Chandigarh. The balance shown at Rs.25,38,99,211/-. Thereafter, the
assessee has annexed ledger account showing the sales to this party.
These details were before the AO when the assessment order was
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 35 passed. He has called for these details, and was satisfied. It is a
different matter that his satisfaction may not match with the expected
satisfaction of the ld.Commissioner. In that case, no action under section 263 can be taken. Similarly, next major item is huge trade
payable i.e. Rs.64.31 crores. At the time of hearing, the ld.counsel for
the assessee drew our attention towards serial no.21 of the questionnaire
issued by the AO. The questionnaire reads "all details of sundry
creditors at the end of the year under consideration along with complete
address". This question was replied by the assessee and it was submitted
that complete list of creditors as on 31.3.2014 is being enclosed in
Annexure-12. Thus, details of all the trade payables have been
submitted to the AO along with complete address. Such details are
available on page no.25 and these amounts payable to Loil Overseas
Foods Ltd., and Laxmi Energy Foods. Thus, details with regard to these
concerns were also with the AO. He was also in seisin of assessing the
income of one of the trade creditors viz. Loil Overseas Foods Ltd. He
might have been satisfied with the accounts submitted before him. What
verification would require i.e. genuineness of the transaction or identity
of the parties? These were before him. We have minutely examined
each and every reason assigned by the ld.Commissioner under serial
no.VI of the reasons given by him in the show cause notice. It is
discernible that all these details were submitted before the AO during the
course of assessment proceedings. The assessment proceedings
continued for almost more than eight to nine months, and the accounts
were provided before the AO. The ld.Commissioner just made narrations
in the show cause notice, but has not conducted any inquiry, and has not
held how assessment order is erroneous by pointing out short-comings of
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 36 these accounting entries. He should have verified from Laxmi Energy
Food or Loil Overseas Foods Ltd., and thereafter recorded a finding that
by acceptance of accounting entries, the AO has committed this error.
Only then, he can relegate to the AO for re-adjudication, but no such
steps have been taken. He just touched this issue peripherally without
conducting any investigation. 17. The ld.CIT made reference to the Explanation-2 to Section 263 and also decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT Vs.
Amitabhachan, 384 ITR 200. It is pertinent to note that Explanation-2
of section 263(1) would help the ld.Commissioner to take cognizance
under section 263 of the Act, if no inquiry was conducted by the AO
before finalizing the assessment order. No doubt the assessment orders
are very brief, and did not have elaborate discussion on these issues, but
it is pertinent to bear in mind that assessees have no control over the AO
and cannot persuade him to draft the assessment order in a particular
manner. It is the discretion of the AO, how to pass an assessment order.
Had an elaborate discussion available, then that would be an ideal
situation for the higher appellate authorities to appreciate, what has
operated in the mind of the AO while passing the assessment. But in the
absence of such discussion, it has to be ascertained from the
questionnaire and the replies submitted by the assessee. Explanation-2
can be invoked when no inquiry was conducted by the AO. In the
present case, he has issued a questionnaire calling for details on 37
counts. Those details were submitted. Some of the issues raked up by
the ld.Commissioner in the impugned order were between the group
concerns, and their accounts were open before the AO in simultaneous
 ITA No.577, 578 and 579/Chd/2019 37 proceedings. He was satisfied with these accounts. Thus, it is a case of
inquiry and Explanation-2 cannot be invoked in the present case. In
view of the above discussion, we are of the view that the
ld.Commissioner is not justified in exercising powers under section 263 ,
and setting aside the assessment orders. We allow all these appeals and
quash the impugned orders passed under section 263 of the Income Tax
Act in each case of the appellants. 18. In the result, all three appeals of the assessees are allowed. Order pronounced in the Court on 4th December, 2019 at Chandigarh.