From P.Pandian 21/1, Ponniamman Koil Street Saligramam, Chennai - 600093. To The bank Manager HDFC Bank, Customer Care Division KK nagar Branch, Chennai. Dear Sir/Madam, I wish to bring your immediate attention to the following incident and interaction done by one of your staff namely Rajendran (Contact No.+[protected] who was referred to me by one of your lady staff from the customer care division on the date 2022 March 28, I had visited your bank in connection with updation of my account details as I have been your good customer for many years now. I had enquired in person from a lady staff whom I can identify regarding information and documentation required to open a TRUST account . The very next day I have received a call fro this Mr.Rajendran who represented HDFC bank and had a detailed discussion regarding the opening of a TRUST ACCOUNT. and necessary documents needed for the same along with service and fees as stipulated below.. On the 1st of April he had visited my office situated at the address for collecting all the copies of documents like Aadhaar, pan card, original rental agreement etc.. along with processing fee, Account deposit charges and Print and xerox charges all totalling to about Rs.3500/- and promised to get back to me in about few days to complete all documentation. Now, Mr.Rajendran seems to be absconding with all the papers given to him, is not answering any of my calls or whatsapp messages. This being the current situation I have decided to officially lodge a police complaint with the CRIME BRANCH AND, CYBER DIVISION to trace this person as he seems to be a trickster and might be misusing my documents to commit a bigger crime. I shall also lodge a complaint enquiring as to how it is that these kinds of people represent such reputed financial institutions or their subsidiaries without any personal verification of criminal records. Below are the mobile numbers of Rajendran along with a scanned copy of his photo for your easy identification. As, currently I am out of town I am forwarding this email communication, but once reaching chennai I shall come in person to identify the lady staff with whom I spoke in your bank and would l;ike to know with whose permission she had given my contact number to Rejendran. I request your good offices to kindly look into this on priority so other citizens must not be conned by such individuals and my documents should not be misused for any criminal activity by Rajendran or any of his accomplices.. Thanking you, P.Pandian (The HDFC bank has not provided any information in the last one month. No cooperation was given. Generally HDFC Bank, K.K Nagar branch executives treat customers harshly.) Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)