1. This is suit for recovery filed by plaintiff against the
defendants on the facts that plaintiff company is engaged in the
business of trading, marketing, sale services and import &
export. Defendant no.1 is a multi national group of companies
with its presence in Malaysia, India, Singapore, Dubai,
Hongkong and Africa. Defendant no. 2 is subsidiary/group
company of defendant no.1 and has been impleaded being
consignee as per the invoice to whom the goods were delivered.
Defendant no.3 is also subsidiary and group company of
defendant no.1 and the purchase order was issued by defendant
no.1 through defendant no.3 which was the buyer/notified party
as per the invoices. Defendant no.4 is other subsidiary/group
company of defendant no.1 which allegedly had made payment
of outstanding invoice to unknown party. Defendant no.5 is the
representative of defendant no.1 as defendant no.1 had CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 2/39 approached plaintiff through Sales and Marketing head of
defendant no.5. 2. Defendant no.1 represented itself to be a leading travel
retailer and trading company with a diverse portfolio of lifestyle
and travel related businesses delivering a comprehensive range of
services from Duty-Free Outlet, Duty Free Import/Export,
Logistics and Warehousing. Defendant no.1 also operates an IT
services vertical under the name of " Plus Max Info Tech" that
provides IT Solutions to commercial customers. 3. Defendant no.1 through its representative Mr. Saurabh
Bhatnagar, approached the plaintiff vide email dated 14.11.2019,
indicating its interest in purchasing a container load of alcoholic
beverages and requesting the plaintiff to share their stock
position. Thereafter , defendant no.1 through defendant no.4 sent
a purchase order bearing no. GPO-A-1000123 dated 22.11.2019
vide email of even date, for supply of material specified therein
to defendant no.2, another group company of defendant no.1.
Plaintiff delivered the specified goods and raised an invoice for
USD 1,16,480/- which was remitted by defendant no.4 to the
plaintiff's USD account maintained with Syndicate Bank, Hauz
Khas, New Delhi. Plaintiff received the acknowledgment of
aforesaid payment in terms of the payment slip shared vide email
dated 08.05.2020 sent by defendant no.1. 4. Thereafter defendant no.1 through defendant no.3 issued
another purchase order dated 11.06.2020 addressed to plaintiff's
registered office which was received vide email dated 17.06.2020
sent by Mr. Ashok Kumar, an officer of defendant no.1. In
response to the said purchase order, plaintiff issued all necessary
documentation alongwith invoice dated 02.07.2020 from its CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 3/39 registered office. In the said email, defendant no.1 had further
requested that the Bill of Lading be changed once the
consignment containing the goods had sailed from the loading
port. Pursuant to such request, plaintiff sent an email dated
16.07.2020 to defendant no.1 which contained copies of Bill of
Lading and the Switched Bill of Lading for confirmation, both of
which were duly confirmed by defendant no.1 vide emails dated
16.07.2020 and 20.07.2020. Thereby, plaintiff merely worked as
a Facilitator for defendant no.1 Group in co-ordinating with the
Shipper to issue the switched Bill of Lading. Freight Guarantee
Letter dated 20.07.2020 was issued by defendant no.1 on the
letter head of Defendant no.2. Plaintiff upon the request of
defendant no.1 to grant them the same credit period as given for
the previous transaction pertaining to purchase order dated
22.11.2019, verbally agreed to extend the credit period
mentioned in the invoice i.e. 30 days to 60 days. Therefore, in
terms of verbal agreement, defendant no.1 was to make the
payment of invoice amount within 60 days from the date of
issuing the invoice i.e. by 02.09.2020. 5. Consignment pertaining to invoice was duly dispatched
and delivered to its destination i.e. D3, Jalan Parang, Pelabuhan
Utara, PO Box No. 258, Port Klang, Malaysia- 42009 as
specified in the purchase order on 27.07.2020 where the
consignee i.e. defendant no.2 took delivery on 07.08.2020. Same
was intimated to the plaintiff by defendant no.1 vide emails dated
28.07.2020 and 07.08.2020. On 18.08.2020, employee of
plaintiff contacted defendant no.1 to check upon the status of
disbursement of the invoice amount and to the plaintiff's utter
shock, representative of defendant no.1 stated that defendant no.1 CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 4/39 had already remitted the outstanding invoice amount on
13.08.2020. It was made clear to representatives of defendant
no.1 that no payment was received against the invoice. 6. On the same date, representative of Defendant no.1 shared
a trail of emails sent and received between 04.08.2020 to
13.08.2020, perusal of which made it clear that defendant no.1
had allegedly been a victim of cyber fraud committed upon them
by unknown persons owing to its own negligence. However, the
denial on part of defendants in providing the bank statement,
corroborating their representation that the payment has been
made, even after repeated requests of plaintiffs for the same,
leads to suspicion that no payment was made by defendant no.1
who may have weaved this entire narrative to evade their legal
obligation to pay the invoice amount. Plaintiff duly notified
defendant no.1 that it had been the victim of fraud on 18.08.2020
itself, pursuant to which, defendant no.1 through defendant no.4
intimated their bank 'Public Bank Berhad' vide letter dated
18.08.2020 and also registered a police complaint in Malaysia on
20.08.2020. On 07.09.2020, plaintiff contacted defendant no.1
for payment of outstanding invoice amount and plaintiff was
assured that it was entitled to receive the payment. However,
defendant no.1 vide email dated 08.09.2020 revealed its malafide
intent of not paying the plaintiff for the goods supplied, by
weaving a false narrative that it was the plaintiff who was the
victim of cyber fraud, whereas in fact, it was defendant no.1 who
was the victim of alleged fraud owing to its own negligence. 7. Thereafter despite sending emails dated 10.09.2020 and
25.09.2020 by plaintiff to defendant no.1 clarifying, no fault on
the part of plaintiff and demanding its outstanding dues, conduct CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 5/39 of defendant no.1 has been evasive. Legal notice dated
23.08.2020 sent by plaintiff, though was replied by defendants
but the payment of outstanding amount was not made,
constraining the plaintiff to file the present suit against
defendants seeking decree in sum of USD 1,24,956 (invoice
amount) alongwith interest amount of USD 1383 @ 2% per
annum from 02.09.2020 till the date of payment or Rupee
equivalent of USD 1,26,339 at the rate of exchange prevailing on
the date of order. 8. Pre-Institution Mediation proceedings were not resorted to
by the plaintiff and it was stated that since plaintiff has filed
application under Order 39 Rules 1, 2, 7 and 10 of CPC seeking
urgent interim reliefs, it may be granted permission to institute
the present suit without going through Pre-Institution Mediation
Proceedings. 9. In written statement filed on behalf of defendants, status of
defendant no. 1 to 5 as mentioned by plaintiff was stated to be
manipulated/partly manipulated averments and denied by
defendants. At the same time, in subsequent paragraphs, it was
submitted that defendant no.3 is the purchaser, defendant no.2 is
the consignee, defendant no.4 had made the payment to the
plaintiff. It was further submitted that defendants no. 1 & 5 have
nothing to do with the present case or transaction and they have
been unnecessary added as parties to this case. It was further
submitted that Mr. Ashok Kumar is the Sales Coordinator &
Purchase Manager of M/s Plus Max Way Sdn. Bhd. He is not an
officer of defendant no.1 as falsely alleged by the plaintiff. 10. It was further stated that defendant no.3 had placed order
for purchase of alcoholic beverages vide purchase order dated CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 6/39 11.06.2020 for sum of USD 1,24,950/- and to deliver the
alcoholic beverages to one of the defendant's associate company
i.e. defendant no.2. Plaintiff received the said purchase order and
agreed to supply. Accordingly, plaintiff raised an invoice dated
02.07.2020 for sum of USD 1,24,806/- in favour of defendant
no.3. Thereafter plaintiff issued an amended invoice in favour of
defendant no.3 and supplied the goods. Suddenly on 04.08.2020,
defendants received an email with an attached letter from
plaintiff's email address, through which plaintiff had been
communicating to the defendants all along. In the said email,
plaintiff had given the mandate to plaintiff's affiliated company
Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd. at Hongkong to receive payments on
behalf of plaintiff due to tax reasons. In the abovesaid email,
plaintiff had also sent final amended invoice dated 02.07.2020
for sum of USD 1,24,806/- in favour of defendant no.3. In the
final amended invoice issued by plaintiff, plaintiff had mentioned
that they were trading as Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd. Further in
the said final invoice, plaintiff had changed the bank details by
changing the company's name as Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd.
And the bank name as HSBC, Hongkong and had insisted
defendant no.4 to remit the payment as per the abovesaid last
amended invoice and the email. Plaintiff directed the defendants
to pay the current and future invoices to the plaintiff's affiliated
company mentioned above. Accordingly, on 13.08.2020,
defendant made the payment in sum of USD 1,24,806/- towards
3rd final amended invoice dated 02.07.2020 issued by plaintiff. 11. It was further stated that the payments were originally
made to Dynamic Brands Pvt. Ltd. and subsequently made to
Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd. as per the plaintiff's instructions and CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 7/39 defendants have sufficient proof for the same. Therefore, there
are no dues payable by the defendants to the plaintiff and all
accounts between the plaintiff and defendants had settled fully
and finally . 12. In replication, contents of written statement were denied
and those of plaint were reiterated and reaffirmed. 13. Following issues were framed vide order dated 22.11.2022 : joinder of parties ? OPD

 (3) Whether the plaintiff is entitled for recovery of the suit
 amount? If yes, from whom/which of the defendants? 14. Plaintiff in support of its case, examined Sh. Rajesh
Mohindra, AR/Chief Executive Office of plaintiff company as
PW1 who filed his evidence by way of affidavit Ex. PW1/X and
relied upon following documents:- 15. Sh. Bhuvenesh Kapoor, an IT and Cyber Security
Professional, working as Technical Head (Director) at Star IT
Solutions was examined as PW2, who relied upon the report
dated 04.01.2023 issued by him to the plaintiff and exhibited the
same as Ex. PW2/A. 16. In Defence, Sh. Saurabh Bhatnagar, Head Sales and
Marketing of Defendant no.5 Company/AR of defendants, was
examined as DW1 who filed his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.
DW1/X and relied upon following documents: 17. Sh. M. Ashok Kumar, Purchase Assistant of Defendants
Company/AR of defendants was examined as DW2 who filed his
evidence by way of affidavit Ex. DW2/X and relied upon emails
dated 13.11.2019 to 08.05.2020 already exhibited as Ex. DW1/2
and Ex. DW1/3 as well as upon letters dated 04.08.2020 and
12.08.2020 already exhibited as Ex. PW1/7 and Ex. PW1/8. 18. Sh. Gandla Jayasuryapal, Cyber-Security Analyst in Vatins
Systems Private Limited was examined as DW3 who filed his
evidence by way of affidavit Ex. DW3/X and relied upon following
documents: Issue wise findings are as under :- 19. It was submitted by Ld. counsel for defendant that this
court has no territorial jurisdiction to try the present suit as no
cause of action ever arose within the territorial jurisdiction of this
court. The purchase order was placed through email and every
communication was done through email which was admitted by
PW1 in his cross examination. The entire cause of action for this
transaction had taken place at Malaysia, therefore, jurisdiction
lies at Malaysia. It was denied that there was any agreement
between parties with regard to the territorial jurisdiction. As
submitted, merely because it is mentioned in the invoice that the
territorial jurisdiction shall be at 'Delhi' will not become an
agreement, when admittedly there is no contract or agreement
where both parties have expressly agreed upon the jurisdiction. 20. As further stated, it is totally false to claim that plaintiff
had received the purchase order, communications, emails at the
registered office at Delhi. The whole communications inlcuding
exchange of documents took place through email and there was
no physical delivery to Delhi office of the plaintiff. Therefore, in
terms of section 20 of CPC, suit is not maintainable before this
court and is liable to be dismissed as no cause of action arose
within the jurisdiction of this court. For the abovesaid reliance
was placed upon Inter Globe Aviation Ltd. Vs. N.
Satchidanand (2011)7 SCC 463, wherein while referring to A.B.C. Laminart Pvt. Ltd. and Another Vs. A.P. Agencies,
Salem , it was observed that : 21. Per contra, Ld. Counsel for plaintiff placed reliance upon following authorities: 2. Pramod Gupta Vs. M/s Romesh Power Products
Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. CS (OS) 243 of 2010 : 22. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff further referred to Lohman
Rausher Gmbh Vs. Medisphere Marketing Pvt. Ltd. ILR CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 12/39 (2005) I Delhi 38 to make the submission that where invoice
raised pertains to sale of goods and contains a description of
goods, quantity and price, alongwith conditions of payment and
delivery address, the invoice is a complete contract, required by
law. 23. Invoice Ex. P-1 is admitted document on record which
contains the exclusive jurisdiction clause that disputes if any,
are subject to 'Delhi' jurisdiction only. It was submitted by Ld.
counsel for plaintiff that invoice Ex. P-1 contains clear
description of goods, quantity of goods, price of goods and
conditions of payment and the delivery address. While the
invoice Ex. P-1 was issued to the defendants over 30 days prior
to them taking the delivery of the goods, defendants never
objected to the terms and conditons mentioned in the invoice and
went on to take delivery of the goods . On the strength of above,
it was submitted by Ld. Counsel for plaintiff that it leads to the
irresistible conclusion that this court has exclusive jurisdiction to
try the present suit. 24. Though it is correct that invoice Ex. P-1 is admitted
document which contains the mention with regard to exclusive
jurisdiction . However, unilateral mention in the invoice does not
render exclusive jurisdiction upon the court. As per the settled
law, parties can with express stipulation agree to confer the
jurisdiction upon the particular jurisdiction amongst the
jurisdictions where the cause of action exists, however cannot
confer the jurisdiction upon the court in whose jurisdiction, the
cause of action does not exist. Besides that, if no cause of action
had arisen within the jurisdiction of Delhi then even with the
consent of the parties, the jurisdiction cannot be conferred. In the CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 13/39 instant matter, purchase order was placed upon the plaintiff
through email which was received and read by plaintiff at the
address of its registered office in Delhi. Plaintiff had furnished
bank account details to the defendant for payment against the
supply which was located at Hauz Khas, Delhi, falling within the
territorial jurisdiction of this court. It is also settled law that the
debtor has to seek creditor and where no place of payment has
been agreed upon, payment would be made to creditor/seller at
its place of working. 25. Reliance is placed upon following : 2. Arcelormittal India Pvt Ltd vs JSC OGCC Kazstroy
Service , decided on 30 May, 2023, CS(COMM) 592/2022 &
I.A. 17546/2022, I.A. 17547/2022: v. Union of India, AIR 1966 Cal259. The learned Judge said: "The English
Common Law Rule that „a debtor must seek the creditor is universal in its
application, since it is founded on justice and equity. It is surely not a
technical rule of English law, wrongly made applicable to India. It is a
beneficent rule, inflexible and is of universal application. The rule cannot be
said to be nothing more than a presumption rebuttable by contrary evidence.
When there is evidence to indicate the place where the parties to a contract
intended that the debt was payable, then the court will hold that such place
of payment has been indicated in the contract itself, though not expressly
but by implication. The occasion for applying the rule, as a rule of justice,
equity and good conscience, would arise only when the court finds that no CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 14/39 place of payment is expressly stated in the contract nor is it possible to find
such place of payment indicated in the contract by necessary implication, on
the relevant evidence on record. (9) Following Bharumal v. Sekhawatmal, AIR 1956 Bom 111, it was
held in Shoba singh and Sons v. Saurashtra Iron Foundry and Steel Works
(Pvt.) Ltd., AIR 1968 Guj 276, that the common law rule that the debtor
should find the creditor and pay the debts where the creditor resides, applied
in India in fit cases." 26. In the instant matter, case of plaintiff is rather at better
footing since place of payment had been specified which was
within territorial jurisdiction of this court. Having discussed as
above, since part of the cause of action had arisen within the
jurisdiction of this court, this court has territorial jurisdiction to
try the present case. This issue is accordingly answered in favour
of plaintiff. Issue no. 2: 27. As submitted by Ld. Counsel for plaintiff, plaintiff was
dealing with defendant no.1 group and defendants no. 2 to 5
formed part of defendant no.1 group, therefore, defendants,as
stated are jointly and severally liable to pay the invoice amount
to the plaintiff. 28. Per contra, on behalf of defendants, it was submitted that
defendant no.1 is not a juristic person, therefore non juristic
person cannot be sued, whereas Defendant no.5 is separate legal
entity and plaintiff had not done any transaction with Defendant
no.5, therefore, defendant no.5 is also not necessary party and the
suit is liable to be dismissed for mis-joinder of Defendant no.1
and 5. 29. In the written statement, though initially all the averments
of the plaintiff were denied, however, later on, it was mentioned
that all the defendants no. 1 to 5 had nothing to do with this
present case or transactions who have been added as unnecessary CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 15/39 parties to the case, which amounts to clear mis-joinder of parties.
It was submitted that defendant no.1 is not a separate legal entity
which is only a corporate identity and defendants no.2 to 4 are
not subsidiary of first defendant. At the same time, it was also
mentioned that defendant no.3 is the purchaser, defendant no.2 is
the consignee and defendant no.4 had made the payment to the
plaintiff. All the defendants had authorized Mr. Saurabh
Bhatnaga, Designated as Head Sales and Marketing of fifth
defendant, who had knowledge about all the business
transactions with the plaintiff on behalf of all the defendants.
Defendants 1, 2 and 4 are located in Malaysia, defendant no.3 is
located in UAE, whereas defendant no.5 is located in India. 30. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff referred to Evidence Affidavit of
DW1 wherein also, it was deposed that for the Impugned
Transaction, Defendant No. 3 was the purchaser, Defendant No.
2 was the Consignee and Defendant No. 4 allegedly made the
payment for the goods to an unknown third party on the alleged
instructions of the Plaintiff. DW1 in Cross-Examination admitted
that he had signed off emails to the Plaintiff pertaining to the
present transaction as "Head of Sales & Marketing Plus Max
Group of Companies", i.e. the Head of Sales & Marketing of
Defendant No. 1 and also that he was communicating with the
Plaintiff in the capacity of Head of Sales & Marketing of
Defendant No. 5. Relevant extract from cross examination of
DW1 is as follows: 31. Further, Authorization Letters and Board Resolution of
Defendant Nos. 2 to 5 Ex. DW1/1 refer to authorization on the
letter head bearing the logo of the Defendant No. 1 Group. Ld.
Counsel for plaintiff also submitted that Authorization Letter and
Board Resolution not only authorize Mr Saurabh Bhatnagar to
appear on their behalf, but also to appear on behalf of the
Defendant No. 1 Group; and Defendant Nos. 2 to 5 have all
mentioned in their respective Authorization Letters and Board
Resolutions about Mr. Saurabh Bhatnagar, designated as Head
Sales & Marketing in each of the Defendant Companies.
Defendants are carrying on business under an assumed name, i.e.
'Plus Max Group of Companies' and represented to the Plaintiff
and the world at large that there is an entity by the name and style
of 'Plus Max Group of Companies' and the Defendants entered
into the contract with the Plaintiff as a group of companies, i.e.
Defendant No. 1. Therefore, in terms of settled law, Defendant CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 17/39 No. 1 is a proper party and can be sued in its name even if it is
not a juristic person. By virtue of conduct, acknowledgement and
admission, privity has been created between the Plaintiff and the
Defendant No. 5 as well. It does not lie to the mouth of the
Defendants to contend that the Defendant No. 5 is a stranger to
the contract in question. 32. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff relied upon following authorities: CS (OS) 632 of 2013 decided by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
on 31.03.2014 wherein defendants sent emails which in their
body referred to " Aditya Birla Group" , the offer letter was
issued on the letter head of " Aditya Birla Group", offer letter
mentioned that plaintiff was to be appointed with a subsidiary of
Aditya Birla Group. It was accordingly observed that: 2. Utair Aviation Vs. Jagson Airlines Limited & Anr. 2012 (129) DRJ 630: 33. The communication between the parties reveals the
communication sent on behalf of Plus Max Group of Companies
which is defendant no.1 and defendant no.5 through its Head and CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 18/39 Sales Manager in communication between plaintiff pertaining to
the transaction between the parties. Defendant no.5 through its
Head and Sales Manager is the one representing case of all the
defendants before the court who had knowledge of business
transactions between the parties, besides the participation of
defendant no.5 through and as "Head Sales & Marketing of Plus
Max Group of Companies". 34. Considering as above, suit cannot be termed as suffering
from mis-joinder of any of the parties. This issue is answered in
favour of plaintiff and against defendants. Issue no. 3 : 35. Undisputed facts on record are that Defendant no.1
through defendant no.4 sent a purchase order bearing no. GPO-
A-1000123 dated 22.11.2019 for supply of material specified
therein to defendant no.2. Delivery against the said purchase
order was made and payment was also remitted by defendant
no.4 to the plaintiff's USD account maintained with Syndicate
Bank, Hauz Khas, New Delhi. Thereafter another purchase order
dated 11.06.2020 was issued, in response to which, invoice dated
02.07.2020 Ex. P-1 was issued by plaintiff and consignment
pertaining to said invoice was duly dispatched and delivered to
its destination, as specified in the purchase order on 27.07.2020,
where the consignee i.e. defendant no.2 took delivery on
07.08.2020. Payment against previous supply was duly made by
the defendants. However, payment against Ex. P-1 , as stated by
plaintiff, had not been made . 36. It is contention of the defendant that the payment against
the invoice Ex. P-1 was also duly made by them on 13.08.2020.
As stated, plaintiff after raising of invoice dated 02.07.2020 in CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 19/39 sum of USD 1,24,806/- had issued an amended invoice in favour
of defendant no.3 and had supplied the goods. On 04.08.2020,
defendants received an email with an attached letter from
plaintiff's email address, through which plaintiff had been
communicating to the defendants all along. In the said email,
plaintiff had given the mandate to plaintiff's affiliated company
Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd. at Hongkong to receive payments on
behalf of plaintiff due to tax reasons. In the abovesaid email,
plaintiff had also sent final amended invoice dated 02.07.2020
for sum of USD 1,24,806/- in favour of defendant no.3. In the
final amended invoice issued by plaintiff, plaintiff had mentioned
that they were trading as Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd. Further in
the said final invoice, plaintiff had changed the bank details by
changing the company's name as Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd. and
the bank name as HSBC, Hongkong and had insisted defendant
no.4 to remit the payment as per the abovesaid last amended
invoice and the email. Plaintiff had directed the defendants to pay
the current and future invoices to the plaintiff's affiliated
company mentioned above. Accordingly, on 13.08.2020,
defendants made the payment in sum of USD 1,24,806/- towards
3rd final amended invoice dated 02.07.2020 issued by plaintiff.
Payments were originally made to Dynamic Brands Pvt. Ltd. and
subsequently made to Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd. as per the
plaintiff's instructions and therefore, no dues are payable by the
defendants to the plaintiff and all accounts between the plaintiff
and defendants stood settled. 37. Plaintiff disputed the abovesaid. As submitted, from the
perusal of trail of emails sent and received between 04.08.2020
to 13.08.2020 by defendant no.1, it is clear that defendant no.1 CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 20/39 had been a victim of cyber fraud committed upon them by
unknown persons owing to its own negligence, which was duly
notified by plaintiff to defendant no.1 on 18.08.2020. Upon
intimation by plaintiff, defendant no.1 through defendant no.4
intimated their bank 'Public Bank Berhad' vide letter dated
18.08.2020 and also registered a police complaint in Malaysia on
20.08.2020. Thereafter, the payment of outstanding invoice
amount was not made by defendants and rather a false story was
weaved by the defendants that it was the plaintiff who was the
victim of cyber fraud, whereas in fact, it was defendant no.1 who
was the victim of alleged fraud owing to its own negligence. 38. Admitted fact on record is that the material had been
supplied to defendants, defendants made payment, however
plaintiff has not received the payment against the material
supplied. Both the parties are claiming the other party to be
victim of fraud, therefore, plaintiff is claiming for its entitlement
for receipt of the payment as it has not received the payment of
outstanding amount due from defendants, whereas defendant is
claiming that the payment against invoice in question was duly
made vide transaction dated 13.08.2020, as per the instructions
received from plaintiff vide email dated 04.08.2020 and it is the
plaintiff who was the victim of Cyber Fraud. So the controversy
has narrowed down to the aspect as to who is the victim of fraud
and whether plaintiff is entitled to the payment, despite defendant
having already made payment. 39. Vide email dated 18.8.2020, plaintiff contacted defendant
no.1 to check upon the status of disbursement of invoice amount
since supply of goods was complete on 7.8.2020. Plaintiff was
informed that defendant no.1 had already remitted the CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 21/39 outstanding invoice amount on 13.8.2020. Defendant no.1 was
informed that no payment was received against the said invoice,
upon which defendant no.1 shared email trails with the plaintiff
on 18.8.2020 Ex. PW1/6 which contained record of email
correspondence between defendant no. 1 and of the
email addresses, being [email protected] , [email protected] and [email protected] .
PW1 stated that these email addresses did not belong to and were
not operated by plaintiff or its employees and when defendants
were communicating with the said emails, they were not
communicating with the plaintiff or its employees. 40. PW1 deposed that at first instance, it could be seen that on
4.8.2020 (8:30), defendant no.1 had received an email which was
sent by unknown persons to defendant no.1 wherein those
unknown persons requested information regarding the impugned
transaction from defendant no.1 in order to provide a letter of
authorization and ' nominated bank detail for payment' on the
ground that plaintiff's " regular bank account has been hit again
with high tax imposition for all international receivable funds".
As per the records of plaintiff, email dated 04.08.2020 (8:30) was
not sent by the plaintiff or its employees. 41. PW1 further deposed that request in the email was in itself
contrary to commercial wisdom in so far as any tax which may
have become due on the invoice amount became due on the date
of issuance of invoice i.e. 02.07.2020. Furthermore, the Reserve
Bank of India prohibits any changes in bank accounts in such
situations. Despite such glaring anomalies, defendants never tried
to verify such an abnormal request through telephone or in
person from the plaintiff and as is apparent from Ex. PW1/6, CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 22/39 defendant no.1 replied to the said email on the same date without
ascertaining the genuineness of the email. Bare perusal of said
reply shows that the same was sent to " [email protected] " 42. It was further deposed by PW1 that perusal of email trail
Ex. PW1/6 shows that defendant no.1 negligently continued to
exchange emails with this unknown person, who in a similar
manner, vide email dated 04.08.2020, sent a forged letter of
authorization dated 04.08.2020 issued to defendant no.2 wherein
authority was given to a company named " Nippon Tinplate
(Asia) Limited" to receive the outstanding invoice amount
alongwith a forged invoice with details of Hong Kong Bank
Account of Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Limited Ex. PW1/8. Bare
perusal of the forged invoice shows that: 43. Further, forged letter of authorization Ex. PW1/7
mentioned an address of defendant no.2 which was never used
for any communication between the defendants and the plaintiff.
However, instead of raising an alarm and contacting the plaintiff
through a different channel for confirmation, defendant no.1
instead sent an email to the unknown persons operating the email [email protected] and sent the correct address details
pursuant to which the unknown persons behind the unauthorized
emails sent a revised copy of the forged letter of Authorization
dated 12.08.2020 Ex. PW1/7. 44. It was also submitted that the defence put forth by the
defendants is that they allegedly received instructions from the
plaintiff through email dated 04.08.2020 sent to the defendants
on [email protected] . Defendants contended that
vide said email, they allegedly received instructions from the
plaintiff to transfer the Invoice Amount to an unknown entity by
the name of M/s Nippon Tinplate (Asia) Ltd and that pursuant to
such instructions received via email, defendants transferred the
Invoice Amount to the unknown entity. 45. Attention of this court was drawn to the email ID from
which the email was sent i.e. [email protected] . It was
submitted by Ld. counsel for defendant that the email was
received from the genuine email address i.e. [email protected] directing the defendants to make
payment in the updated bank details using reply to function by
putting email [email protected] as well as cc to [email protected] , [email protected] and CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 24/39 [email protected] . By sending the email from
genuine mail and initiating the option of 'reply to', reply made
by defendants to the said mails had been siphoned to the address
already put in 'reply to' and CC options. It was also stated that in
the previous transaction, an email was received from the
plaintiff's genuine mail [email protected] dated
10.02.2020, wherein it was informed to defendants that: 46. Thereafter, on 08.05.2020, an email was received by the
defendants giving details for payment and accordingly on the
same day, defendants made the payment of the said invoice. It
was further submitted by Ld. Counsel for defendants that acting
on the same premise, defendants after receiving the similar
emails dated 04.08.2020, as in case of previous transaction,
regarding problem in the bank account of the plaintiff and on
receiving the updated bank details through email, defendants
without default made the payment of the invoice number
DB/2021/006 dated 02.07.2020. 47. It was sought to be clarified by counsel for plaintiff that
reference to the previous transaction with regard to change of
bank details for payment was only because of the merger of the
previous bank and except for the change in the name of the bank,
all the details including account number, place and the country
had remained the same. Whereas, pertaining to instant CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 25/39 transaction, defendants did not verify the details nor sought
confirmation from the plaintiff. 48. With regard to the submission that after the email dated
4.8.2020 had been received, defendants had responded with
option given as 'Reply to', it was submitted that when a person
reply to emails, he clicks 'reply to all' and the email reply will be
delivered to the person who had sent the email to that person. In
the instant matter, as is brought on record, the email though had
been received from [email protected] however in the reply
option, the email address as mentioned was [email protected] . Besides that, the CC was also on the
slightly different address which apparently was not belonging to
plaintiff or any of its employees i.e. emails marked in CC i.e. [email protected] and [email protected] were different from the emails of the plaintiff's accounts
department,i.e." [email protected] "and"rajeshmohindr [email protected] . 49. Not only the email addresses were different in the 'reply'
option but also in the invoice further sent, amount of transaction
was written as USD 1,24,806/- instead of actual amount of
1,24,956. Address of Plaintiff as mentioned in the
communication dated 4.8.2020 Ex. PW1/7 was also wrong which
was of Kuala Lumpur, whereas in the next communication dated
12.8.2020, again address was changed to Malaysia. Though email
ID and names were correctly mentioned but these documents
were not sent through email. Contention of counsel for plaintiff is
also found correct that in both the documents i.e. communication
dated 04.08.2020 and communication dated 12.08.2020 Ex. PW1/7 (colly), signatures had also been pasted and both the
documents did not contain the original signatures. 50. Contention of counsel for plaintiff is meritable that there
are so many discrepancies in the emails and documentation i.e. (a) email address for reply is wrong (b) sender name and address is wrong (c) figure is different. (d) signatures are pasted and not signed. (e) All the relevant details pertaining to address, party
name and the bank details have been changed. 51. As submitted, even then defendants did not feel it
appropriate to seek confirmation from the plaintiff whether all
these changes had actually been required by the plaintiff. 52. DW1 stated that there was no need of independent
verification as they always had communication with the plaintiff
through emails and when they received email communication
from the plaintiff from their official email ID (which was always
being used by them) with the revised invoice and authorization,
they made payment to M/s Nippon Tinplate. DW1 further
admitted that Ex. PW1/8 which was the revised invoice had been
denied in Affidavit of Admission/Denial of documents. He
denied that this document was denied as he was aware that the
said document was forged document. He stated that defendant
had made the payment on the basis of revised invoice Ex. PW1/8
which mentions different account number in which they had
made the payment. He stated that it is normal practice for the
supplier to ask for the payment in different bank account even
after the delivery, however the said request must be supported
with correct document such as revised invoice and authority CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 27/39 letter. He stated that he did not verify about change of account
number using the telephone numbers or email IDs of Mr. Rajesh
Mohindra and Mr. Anil Goyal before making the payment. 53. DW1 stated that they had previously also received an
email from the plaintiff that they want to change the bank
account where payment has to be remitted. Similar request was
also made for transaction in question and hence there was no
requirement of verifying the same. 54. DW1 was referred to Ex. PW1/D2 which was previous
email under reference. He admitted that reply to said email
appears just above (preceding) the email Ex. PW1/D2 which was
sent to [email protected] . He stated that this was not the
correct email ID of the plaintiff. He also admitted that whenever
any email is replied by clicking " Reply to All", the reply is
delivered to the email address from which the original email was
received alongwith the persons to whom it was marked.
Attention of this witness was drawn to Ex. DW1/X and he stated
that he stood by the averments that [email protected] is the
fake email ID which fact came into their knowledge later on
through plaintiff. 55. DW2 admitted that all the communications between
plaintiff and defendants were through email ID i.e. [email protected] belonging to defendant and [email protected] belonging to plaintiff. He admitted that
no other email ID was used for communications for either by
plaintiff or by defendant. This witness also stated that he had
replied the email by using 'reply all' function of the email from
which he had received the same. He had not himself typed the
email ID while sending the reply. He had not verified email ID of CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 28/39 the plaintiff while replying to mail dated 04.08.2020. According
to him, he had not verified as there was entire history of emails
from the said ID. Both the email IDs were very much similar. He
denied that he got confused by the similar email IDs but admitted
that now he realized that the email ID to which the reply was
sent, was that of some different party other than plaintiff. 56. Expert witnesses were examined by both the parties. DW3
is a Cyber Security Analyst. He was engaged to provide services
of cyber security to Plus Max Group of Companies and to find
out whether any attack on the system of the company occurred or
it was from the end of Dynamic Brands. During the process, he
had taken access to emails of [email protected] and [email protected] and analyzed the same. He
sought metadata of emails dated 04.08.2020 received from [email protected] and replied to all by Ashok Kumar
through [email protected] and checked all the
subsequent trail emails. He found that email dated 04.08.2020
was sent from [email protected] at 08:30:50 to [email protected] and CC to [email protected] , [email protected] and [email protected] . Further in reply to the
sender marked [email protected] . In this way, when Ashok
Kumar replied the email by selecting the option ' Reply to All' ,
the emails were sent to the emails addresses already marked by
the sender of email [email protected] dated 04.08.2020 at
08:30:50. Accordingly, the trail mails were received and sent by
selecting the option of 'Reply to all' from both the sides. It was
deposed by DW3 that from comparison of metadata and emails
addresses on the emails, nothing had been changed or altered CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 29/39 from the side of Plus Max Group of Companies and it responded
only on the email originally sent through [email protected] . Report was placed on record as Ex.
DW3/2. 57. This witness however stated that he was neither the author
of report Ex.DW3/2 nor the part of the team which prepared the
said report, though he sought to clarify that he had verified the
said report. He conceded that analysis referred in the report Ex.
DW3/2 was not conducted in his presence and he was told by his
senior about the analysis conducted. He had taken the printouts
of Meta data Ex. DW3/4 and Ex. DW3/5 by remotely connecting
himself with the email account of the defendants in its computer
system. He admitted that the metadata and the header, the
printout of which he had taken using his system, was there in the
email account of the defendants. He also admitted that he had not
mentioned the methodology or the steps taken to analyze the
metadata in his affidavit Ex. DW3/X. He further admitted that the
metadata and the email headers are created at the moment the
mail is received in the inbox and that there was gap of three years
between the date when the metadata and the email header was
created and the date when the printout of the same was taken by
him. He admitted that he had not mentioned any methodology
used to ensure that the metadata and email headers were not
tampered between the said period when the same was with the
defendants. But sought to clarify that the metadata and email
headers were downloaded directly from the google server and
hence there was no chance of tampering. 58. DW3 further admitted that when metadata is downloaded
from the google server, a separate file is created for metadata CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 30/39 pertaining to each email. If the metadata pertains to single email,
a single metadata file will be downloaded but if it pertains to
loop of mails, then metadata of entire loop will be downloaded.
He admitted that Ex. DW3/4 comprises of five separate metadata
files for five separate emails and for proper analysis of an email,
the complete analysis of entire metadata is required. This witness
was put question that metadata pertaining to email dated
04.08.2020 at 08:30 consisted of total of 91 pages as mentioned
in the footer at point 'A', however only four pages thereof have
been filed on record, to which he answered that he has filed four
pages because the same were only relevant as per the screenshot
which also mentions the time of the email. 59. He admitted that report Ex. DW3/2 was prepared after
analysis of metadata. He had contacted Mr. Saurabh Bhatnagar
on 04.10.2023 to take access of the computer system of
defendant to take print out of metadata and email account. He
admitted that when he contacted Mr. Saurabh Bhatnagar on
04.10.2023, report Ex. DW3/2 was already prepared, though he
verified the report contacting Mr. Saurabh Bhatnagar. He was
put question to tell which one out of two emails in question i.e. [email protected] and [email protected] , is genuine
and original email of Mr. Ani Goyal of plaintiff company, to
which he was unable to tell. 60. DW1 is Sh. Saurabh Bhatnagar who admitted that
transaction pertaining to payment made to Dynamics Brands
private Limited by the defendants upon checking was found to be
fraudulent transaction . He stated that the transaction was done
by their accounts team. Although he admitted that he got
registered an FIR against some unknown persons. Attention of CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 31/39 this witness was drawn to the copy of FIR Ex. P-5 from point 'A'
to 'B' after which he admitted that there was mention in FIR Ex.
P-5 that defendant was victim of scam. Witness sought to clarify
that though no scam was done against them but they had
mentioned so, in order to help the plaintiff. 61. Expert witness examined by plaintiff was PW2 who had
taken access to: 62. PW2 checked the Personal Storage Table file and the Logs
for any modification, alteration or deletion of files and found no
modification, alteration or deletion in the same. Upon
assessment, the data was found to be genuine with no tampering.
He submitted his report Ex. PW2/A. He ran checks on the entire
email trail containing 29 emails and identified that from 4.8.2020
onwards, defendant no.1 shared the entire email trail and started
conversing with a third party instead of the plaintiff. Further, to
cross-check the emerging fact that the emails from 04.08.2020
onwards in the said email trail did not originate from [email protected] , he checked the entire email trail against
the Personal Storage Table (.pst) file pertaining to [email protected] . 63. PW2 deposed that based on his professional, technical
knowledge, he could say that a Personal Storage Table (.pst) file
of email address maintained on Outlook contains the logs of all
emails sent and received from that email address and that if a
certain email is not found in the PST File, it has not been sent by
or received from the email address (as the case may be). Upon
tallying the email trail with the PST file pertaining to [email protected] , he concluded in his professional and
technical assessment that : 64. In cross-examination, PW2 stated that the email ID which
was configured on the computer system inspected by him could
not be accessed from any other system in the office of plaintiff.
Account which was accessed by him was not activated for
webmail access and it only had POP3/IMAP, due to which the CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 33/39 email account [email protected] can only be accessed
through " Microsoft Outlook". 65. This witness was put to extensive cross-examination and
he was able to answer with regard to the procedure adopted and
its analysis. He denied that address of the sender in Ex. PW1/D1
and Ex. Pw1/D2 is [email protected] . He stated that the
basis of his denial to the said question was that the domain name
in the said email had been modified in the expert opinion. He
also denied that address mentioned in Ex. D-12 as [email protected] was the same as that of Ex. PW1/D1 and
Ex. PW1/D2. According to him, mail ID in Ex. PW1/D1 and Ex.
PW1/D2 were modified. There was break in the trailing mail,
therefore, IDs mentioned in all the three emails could not be
same. He was put question as to why he had not mentioned the
email trails of Ex. PW1/D1 and Ex. PW1/D2 despite observing
irregularity in them, to which he answered that he had only
mentioned about the irregular email trails which were found in
PST date or deleted logs. Ex. PW1/D1 and Ex. PW1/D2 were not
found in PST data or in deleted logs, hence were not mentioned
in the report. He had checked PST data for the emails alleged to
have been sent by defendant to the plaintiff. While doing so, he
did not find emails mentioned by the defendant in his trail mail
alleged to have been sent to plaintiff. He stated that every email
which is sent or received consist of one prefix encrypted header
for sending or receiving emails which gives complete road map
of communication protocol under POP3 or IMAP protocol for
getting the source and destination mail flow addresses. This
entire process is called metadata in context of emails which is
used for getting the email flow detail. 66. PW2 admitted that the address of emails which are sent or
received are saved in metadata and that the information stored in
metadata cannot be modified. He did not find any backup file
related to the email account configured on the computer system
analysed by him. He stated that he had prepared the analysis
report after examining all the trail mails in the computer system
analyzed by him and further stated that only one outlook mail
application can be configured on one system. 67. PW2 further stated that he had checked the metadata of
email ID referred by him in report Ex. PW2/A and denied that he
had not annexed any document related to metadata as the email
flow in respect of entire trail mail was saved in the metadata. 68. From the examination of witnesses as noted above and
perusal of the expert report, it can be concluded that email
pertaining to change of details had not been sent by plaintiff and
defendants had sent reply to the different email IDs and also
followed the instructions of the sender from fake email address.
Thereby it was the defendant who was the victim of cyber fraud. 69. Counsel for plaintiff also submitted that it was the
contention of defendants that they did not check or confirm with
the plaintiff because plaintiff had allegedly made such request to
them during the previous transaction as well. On behalf of
defendant, Ex. DW1/3 was referred to i.e. email dated
10.02.2020 with following extract: 70. This email was sent from email address [email protected] at 3:10:29 PM which was responded
vide mail dated 10.02.2020 at 07:57 followed by another
communication from [email protected] . It was submitted by
Ld. Counsel for plaintiff that in the said emails, the scammers
made the same plea (as in the impugned transaction) to the
defendants about changing of bank accounts. However, the
defendants did not act on these emails and no payment was made
pursuant to these emails. Payment of the invoice amount in the
previous transaction was made to the Plaintiff's bank account on
08.05.2020 which was in no way connected to the above
fraudulent email as there was gap of 88 days between the
fraudulent email dated 10.02.2020 and the date of payment.
Payment made by the defendants in the previous transaction was
made by the defendants after confirming the same from the
plaintiff and the same is evident from the Plaintiff's email dated
08.05.2020 (11:15:34) Ex. DW1/3 vide which defendants asked
the Plaintiff for its bank details, upon receipt of which the
defendants made the payment. It was submitted that it rather
points out that the scammers who scammed the defendants in the
transaction forming the subject matter of the present suit had also
tried to scam the defendants in an identical manner in the past
transaction. While the Defendants exercised their diligence and
did not act on the fraud emails in the previous transaction and
made the payment only after confirming with the Plaintiff, they
deliberately failed to exercise such diligence in the present CS (Comm) No. : 13/2024 36/39 transaction and apparently fell victim to the scam owing to their
own negligence, for which liability cannot be shifted upon the
plaintiff. 71. Having discussed above, the conclusion which can be
drawn is that the defendants were the victim of cyber fraud.
Considering the discrepancies as noted (supra), despite the
change in invoice amount, particulars of bank details and the
entity, defendants did not exercise due diligence in seeking
confirmation from the plaintiff, resultantly defendants though
has made payment but plaintiff has not received the payment
against the delivery of consignment.Defendants made the
payment to third party and failed to bring on record that it was in
pursuance to the instructions by the plaintiff. 72. While the duty of seller to deliver the goods and of buyer
to receive was discharged but buyer's duty to pay for them and
seller's entitlement to receive the payment against the supply, in
the peculiar circumstances of the instant case, remained un-
discharged. Plaintiff despite supplying the material did not get its
dues. In these circumstances, is entitled to receive its dues from
the defendants. Issue no.3 is answered in favour of plaintiff and
against the defendants. Issue no 4: 73. Plaintiff has claimed interest @ 2% per annum from
02.09.2020 till the date of realization. It was submitted by Ld.
Counsel for plaintiff that section 61(2)(a) of The Sale of Goods
Act, 1930 states: from the date of the tender of the goods or from the date on which
price was payable"