The relief sought for in the present writ petition is to call for

 the entire records in Oo.Mu.No.1/51475/2022 dated 21.09.2022 on the file

 of the first respondent and confirming order dated in Na.Ka.3450/2022/E3

 dated 12.08.2022 on the file of the second respondent and quash the same. FACTS OF THE CASE: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 9. Thus the fourth respondent filed a petition before the second

 respondent to cancel the Settlement Deed executed in favour of her elder

 son-writ petitioner and make a way to live at their old-age as per the

 provisions of Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act,

 2007 [hereinafter referred to as the 'Act', in short]. 10. The second respondent conducted an enquiry by affording

 opportunity to all the parties concerned. The second respondent conducted

 an enquiry on 10.08.2022 as per the provisions of the Act. The second

 respondent, ascertaining the facts, passed an order cancelling the Settlement

 Deed executed by the fourth respondent in favour of the writ petitioner. The

 writ petitioner preferred an appeal and the said appeal was rejected by the

 District Collector on the ground that as per Section 16 (1) of the Act, the

 parents or the senior citizens, if they suffer by an order, shall prefer an

 appeal. But the petitioner is not falling under the ambit of the appeal

 provisions contemplated under the Act and therefore, his appeal was

 rejected. Thus, the petitioner has chosen to file the present writ petition. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 11. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the writ

 petitioner mainly contended that parents of the writ petitioner hails from

 Bangalore and they have got two sons and two daughters. The father of the

 writ petitioner was running a Trade in the name of 'Dhayan Tyre and

 Traders' in Bangalore. The petitioner states that he started doing small

 works after coming to Thiruppur and learnt Export Business and thereafter

 earned and purchased the subject property in his mother's name, who is the

 fourth respondent in the present writ petition. 12. The petitioner states that he purchased a vacant land in the

 year 2003 and thereafter constructed a house by borrowing loan from the

 REPCO Bank. He completed the construction of the house in between the

 year 2013 and 2018. Thus, the petitioner states that the purchase of vacant

 land and the construction of house, were made by from and out of his own

 earnings and by borrowing loan and thus, the fourth respondent is not

 entitled for the relief as such sought for in the present writ petition. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 13. The learned counsel for the petitioner mainly contended

 that the fourth respondent had executed the Settlement Deed on 20.10.2020

 in favour of the writ petitioner without any condition. In the Settlement

 Deed, father and younger brother of the petitioner, are witnesses and one

 unregistered Consent Deed also obtained from his sisters as well as his

 brother on 20.10.2020. At the instigation of the sisters of the petitioner, the

 fourth respondent had given a complaint before the second respondent for

 cancellation of Settlement Deed. Though the second respondent called for

 an enquiry on 12.08.2022, passed an order without conducting any proper

 enquiry, by cancelling the Settlement Deed. The appeal filed by the

 petitioner was also rejected. 14. Referring to Sections 4 and 5 of the Act, the petitioner

 states that he is maintaining his father and mother till date and they are

 residing in the First Floor of the subject property. The second respondent

 has failed to consider the scope of Section 23 of the Act. There is no

 condition imposed in the Settlement Deed and in the absence of any such

 condition, cancellation of Settlement Deed is in violation of Section 23 of Page 8 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 the Act. 15. The Authorities have failed to consider the purpose and

 object of the Act, with reference to Sections 2(b) , 2k , 4 and 23 of the Act. When the Act do not have sufficient means, then alone the provisions of the

 Act, needs to be pressed into service. 16. In the present case, no such facts are established and the

 petitioner is taking care of his parents and thus, cancellation of Settlement

 Deed through the impugned order, is not in consonance with the object of

 the Act. 17. In support of the contention, the learned counsel for the

 petitioner relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in

 the case of Sudesh Chhikara vs. Ramti Devi and Another [2022 LiveLaw

 (SC) 1011], wherein in paragraph-14, it has been held as under:- 18. Relying on the abovesaid judgment, the learned counsel for

 the petitioner reiterated that the cancellation of Settlement Deed is improper

 and liable to be set aside. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 REPLY BY THE RESPONDENTS: 19. The respondents 1 and 2 relying on the counter-affidavit

 made a submission that based on the complaint given by the fourth

 respondent, who is the mother of the writ petitioner, an enquiry was

 conducted and the writ petitioner had appeared before the second

 respondent for enquiry on 12.08.2022 and gave his statement. 20. The writ petitioner has stated that he is maintaining his

 father and mother in good way. The petitioner admitted the fact that his

 mother had executed a Settlement Deed vide document No.8690 of 2020 in

 his name. In the said document, his father and brothers had signed with their

 full consent. His father is living with him in the Ground Floor and his

 mother is living in the First Floor. He is spending towards food and medical

 expenditures for them. Due to inducement of his sisters, his mother had

 given a complaint to cancel the Settlement Deed. The petitioner has assured

 that he will maintain his parents till their life time. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 21. The respondents 1 to 3 have considered the complaint given

 by the fourth respondent and the statement given by the writ petitioner and

 found that the petitioner has not maintained his parents and mere statement

 by the petitioner that he will maintain his parents would be insufficient to

 comply with the provisions of the Act. In order to safeguard the interest of

 the Senior Citizens and to protect their life and normal living, the

 respondents 1 to 3 have cancelled the Settlement Deed, enabling them to get

 back their property and to lead a normal life and to meet out their medical

 expenditures. 22. The learned counsel for the fourth respondent strenuously

 objected the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioner by stating that the

 first respondent had given a complaint mainly on the allegation that he

 petitioner failed to maintain the fourth respondent and her husband. The

 fourth respondent executed the Settlement Deed out of love and affection

 and with the fond hope that the petitioner will maintain his parents. But the

 petitioner has failed to honour his commitment and left his parents in lurch. The fourth respondent is now being maintained by her daughter and her Page 12 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 medical expenditures are met out by her daughter, despite the fact that the

 fourth respondent had settled the subject property in favour of the writ

 petitioner. The fourth respondent was not in a position to meet out the

 medical expenditures for her and for her husband, as both of them are

 suffering with age-old ailments. 23. Under those circumstances, they have preferred an appeal

 before the second respondent to cancel the Settlement Deed. To protect their

 life and to meet out their medical expenditures, the second respondent

 conducted an enquiry and found that the writ petitioner is not maintaining

 his parents and consequently cancelled the Settlement Deed. The appeal by

 the writ petitioner is not entertainable in view of Section 16(1) of the Act. Thus, the present writ petition is to be rejected. JUDGMENTS ON THE SENIOR CITIZENS ACT: 24. A notable judgment on the Senior Citizens Act , was

 delivered by the Three Judges Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India

 in the case of S.Vanitha vs. Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban Page 13 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 and District and Others [(2021) 15 SCC 730], wherein in paragraphs 15 to

 25, it has been held as follows:- submissions must begin with explaining and
 interpreting the salient feature of the Senior
 Citizens Act, 2007 which have a bearing on
 the present controversy. “Maintenance” is
 defined in an inclusive manner to
 incorporate, among other things, provisions
 for food, clothing, residence, medical
 assistance and treatment [ “2. (b) “maintenance” includes provision for
 food, clothing, residence and medical
 attendance and treatment;”] . In defining
 the expression “property”, the legislation
 uses broad terminology encompassing
 “property of any kind” and to include
 “rights or interests in such property” [ “2. (f) “property” means property of any kind,
 whether movable or immovable, ancestral Page 14 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 or self-acquired, tangible or intangible and
 includes rights or interests in such
 property;”] . Overriding effect is given to
 the provisions of the enactment by Section 3 [ “3. Act to have overriding effect.—The
 provisions of this Act shall have effect
 notwithstanding anything inconsistent
 therewith contained in any enactment other
 than this Act, or in any instrument having
 effect by virtue of any enactment other than
 this Act.”] . Besides the definitions which
 are comprised in Chapter I, Chapter II is
 titled “Maintenance of Parents and Senior
 Citizens” while Chapter V is titled
 “Protection of Life and Property of Senior
 Citizen”. 17. The Statement of Objects and
 Reasons indicates the rationale for the
 enactment of the law: 18. Briefly reviewed, Section 4 recognises an entitlement of maintenance to
 inhere in parents and senior citizens. Section 5 lays down the procedure by which
 an application for maintenance can be
 made. Section 6 elucidates provisions
 governing jurisdiction and procedure. Section 7 contains stipulations for the
 constitution of a Maintenance tribunal. Section 8 envisages a summary procedure Page 16 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 for making an inquiry. Section 11 provides
 for the enforcement of an order of
 maintenance. 19. A senior citizen, including a
 parent, who is unable to maintain
 themselves from their own earning or out of
 property owned by them, is entitled to make
 an application under Section 4(i) . A parent
 or grandparent may make an application
 against one or more of their children. A
 childless senior citizen can make an
 application against a relative specified in Section 2(g) . Section 4 recognises a
 corresponding obligation on the part of the
 children or relative to maintain a senior
 citizen, extending to such needs as would
 enable them to lead a normal life. In the
 case of a relative, the obligation is if they
 are in possession of the property of the
 senior citizen or would inherit property
 from them. Hence, in the case of the
 children of a senior citizen, the obligation
 to maintain a parent is not conditional on
 being in possession of property of the senior
 citizen or upon a right of future inheritance Page 17 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 [ “4. Maintenance of parents and senior
 citizens.—(1) A senior citizen including
 parent who is unable to maintain himself
 from his own earning or out of the property
 owned by him, shall be entitled to make an
 application under Section 5 in case of—(i)
 parent or grandparent, against one or more
 of his children not being a minor;(ii) a
 childless senior citizen, against such of his
 relative referred to in clause (g) of Section 2.(2) The obligation of the children or
 relative, as the case may be, to maintain a
 senior citizen extends to the needs of such
 citizen so that senior citizen may lead a
 normal life.(3) The obligation of the
 children to maintain his or her parent
 extends to the needs of such parent either
 father or mother or both, as the case may
 be, so that such parent may lead a normal
 life.(4) Any person being a relative of a
 senior citizen and having sufficient means
 shall maintain such senior citizen provided
 he is in possession of the property of such
 senior citizen or he would inherit the
 property of such senior citizen:Provided Page 18 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 that where more than one relatives are
 entitled to inherit the property of a senior
 citizen, the maintenance shall be payable by
 such relative in the proportion in which
 they would inherit his property.”] . 20. The procedure to be followed by a
 Maintenance Tribunal (constituted under Section 7 ) is of a summary nature as
 provided in Section 8(1) and with all the
 powers of a civil court, as provided in Section 8(2) [ “8. Summary procedure in
 case of inquiry.—(1) In holding any inquiry
 under Section 5 , the Tribunal may, subject
 to any rules that may be prescribed by the
 State Government in this behalf, follow such
 summary procedure as it deems fit.(2) The
 Tribunal shall have all the powers of a civil
 court for the purpose of taking evidence on
 oath and of enforcing the attendance of
 witnesses and of compelling the discovery
 and production of documents and material
 objects and for such other purposes as may
 be prescribed; and the Tribunal shall be
 deemed to be a civil court for all the
 purposes of Section 195 and Chapter XXVI Page 19 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2
 of 1974).”]. Under sub-section (1) of Section 9 , where a senior citizen is not able
 to maintain himself or herself and the
 children or relatives, as the case may be,
 neglect or refuse to maintain them, the
 Tribunal is empowered to order them to
 make a monthly allowance at such monthly
 rate for the maintenance of the senior
 citizen, as the Tribunal may deem fit
 [ “9. Order for maintenance.—(1) If
 children or relatives, as the case may be,
 neglect or refuse to maintain a senior
 citizen being unable to maintain himself, the
 Tribunal may, on being satisfied of such
 neglect or refusal, order such children or
 relatives to make a monthly allowance at
 such monthly rate for the maintenance of
 such senior citizen, as the Tribunal may
 deem fit and to pay the same to such senior
 citizen as the Tribunal may, from time to
 time, direct.”] . The amount of the monthly
 allowance can be altered inter alia upon a
 change in circumstances, under Section 10 [ “10. Alteration in allowance.— Page 20 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 (1) On proof of misrepresentation or
 mistake of fact or a change in the
 circumstances of any person, receiving a
 monthly allowance under Section 9 , for the
 maintenance ordered under that section to
 pay a monthly allowance for the
 maintenance, the Tribunal may make such
 alteration, as it thinks fit, in the allowance
 for the maintenance. (2) Where it appears to the Tribunal
 that, in consequence of any decision of a
 competent civil court, any order made
 under Section 9 should be cancelled or
 varied, it shall cancel the order or, as the
 case may be, vary the same accordingly.”] . 21. Of particular relevance to the
 facts of the case at hand is Chapter V,
 which enacts provisions for protecting the
 life and property of a senior citizen. Section
 23 proceeds in the following terms: Sub-section (1), in other words, creates a
 deeming fiction of the law where the
 transfer of the property is subject to a
 condition and the condition of providing for
 maintenance and the basic needs of a senior
 citizen is not fulfilled by the person upon
 whom the obligation is imposed. Then, at
 the option of the transferor, the transfer can
 be declared as void by the Tribunal. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 23. On the other hand, sub-section
 (2) of Section 23 envisages a situation
 where a senior citizen has a right to receive
 maintenance out of an estate. Where such a
 right exists, the right of maintenance can be
 enforced where the estate or a portion of it,
 is transferred against a transferor who has
 notice of the right; or if the transfer is
 gratuitous. The right however cannot be
 enforced against a transferee for
 consideration and without notice of the
 right. Now, sub-section (1) of Section 23 envisages a situation where the transfer of
 property is by the senior citizen. This is
 evident from the language of sub-section
 (1), namely, “where any senior citizen who,
 after the commencement of this Act, has
 transferred by way of gift or otherwise, his
 property…”. On the other hand, sub-section
 (2) of Section 23 does not confine itself to a
 transfer by a senior citizen, unlike sub-
 section (1). Sub-section (2) uses the
 expression “such estate or part thereof is
 transferred”. Where a senior citizen has a
 right to receive maintenance out of the Page 24 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 estate and any part of it is transferred, sub-
 section (2) permits the enforcement of the
 right to receive maintenance out of the
 estate against a transferee with notice or
 against a gratuitous transferee. Sub-section
 (2), in other words, may cover a situation
 where the transfer of the estate (in which a
 senior citizen has a right to maintenance) is
 by a third party, in which event, the
 provision provides the right to enforce the
 claim of maintenance against such
 transferee (other than those transferees for
 consideration or without notice of the pre-
 existing right). Arguably, the language of
 sub-section (2) is broad enough to also
 cover a situation where the transfer is by
 the senior citizen, in which event the
 transferee with notice of the right; or a
 gratuitous transferee, can be made subject
 to the enforcement of the right against the
 transferred estate. 24. Another distinction between sub- section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section 23 must also be noticed. Under sub-section (1),
 where a transfer has been made by a senior Page 25 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 citizen subject to the condition that the
 transferee will provide for basic amenities
 or physical needs of the transferor and if
 there is a failure of the transferee to fulfil
 the condition, two consequences follow : (i)
 the transfer of property shall be deemed to
 have been made by fraud or coercion or
 under undue influence; and (ii) the transfer
 shall, at the option of the transferor, be
 declared to be void by the Tribunal. The
 deeming consequence which is provided for
 in sub-section (1) is not incorporated in
 sub-section (2). Sub-section (2), in
 contradistinction, stipulates that the right to
 receive maintenance can be enforced
 against a gratuitous transferee or a
 transferee with notice of the pre-existing
 right of a citizen to receive maintenance out
 of an estate notwithstanding who is the
 transferee of the estate. In keeping with the
 salutary public purpose underlying the
 enactment of the legislation, the expression
 “transfer” would include not only the
 absolute transfer of property but also
 transfer of a right or interest in the Page 26 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 property. This would also be in consonance
 with the provisions of Section 2(f) which
 defines the expression “property” to
 include “rights or interests in such
 property”. The expression “transfer” not
 having been defined specifically by the
 legislation, it must receive an interpretation
 which would advance the beneficent object
 and purpose of its provisions. Sub-section
 (2) of Section 23 speaks of the enforcement
 of the “right to receive maintenance” which
 is more comprehensive in its nature, than
 merely enforcing an order for maintenance
 passed under Section 9 of the Act. 25. The substance of sub-section (2)
 of Section 23 , as submitted by the second
 and third respondents, is that the Tribunal
 had the jurisdiction to pass an order
 directing the eviction of the appellant who
 is their daughter-in-law. According to the
 submission, the power to order eviction is
 implicit in the provision guaranteeing a
 “right to receive maintenance out of an
 estate” and the enforcement of that right. In
 supporting the submission, they have Page 27 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 referred to the view which has been taken
 by several High Courts, indicating that the
 Tribunal may order the eviction of a child
 or a relative from the property of a senior
 citizen, where there has been a breach of
 the obligation to maintain the senior citizen.
 The Tribunal under the Senior Citizens Act,
 2007 may have the authority to order an
 eviction, if it is necessary and expedient to
 ensure the maintenance and protection of
 the senior citizen or parent. Eviction, in
 other words would be an incident of the
 enforcement of the right to maintenance and
 protection. However, this remedy can be
 granted only after adverting to the
 competing claims in the dispute. It is
 necessary to recapitulate that the situation
 in the present case is that the eviction was
 sought of the daughter-in-law i.e. the
 appellant. The land, where the house has
 been constructed, was originally purchased
 by the son of the applicants who are seeking
 eviction of their daughter-in-law. The son
 had purchased the property a few months
 before his marriage to the appellant. He Page 28 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 had subsequently transferred the property
 by a registered sale deed to his father and
 the fact that it was for the same
 consideration after the lapse of several
 years is of significance. The father, in turn,
 executed a gift deed in favour of his spouse.
 The appellant has asserted that she had
 been living in the house, as her matrimonial
 residence, until the application was filed.
 Her spouse has (according to her) deserted
 her and their minor daughter and left them
 in the lurch. The electricity to the premises
 was disconnected for non-payment of dues.
 Their daughter has sought admission to an
 engineering degree course however her
 father, fourth respondent has not provided
 any financial support. The transfers which
 took place cannot be viewed in isolation
 from the context of the ongoing matrimonial
 dispute which has taken place. The issue is
 whether the appellant as the daughter-in-
 law and the minor daughter could have
 been ousted in the above manner.” Page 29 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 25. In the above judgment, the Apex Court, elaborated the

 scope of Section 23(1) of the Act and the statement of objects and reasons

 for the enactment of Senior Citizens Act . In order to provide speedy remedy

 to the Senior Citizens, the Act provides provisions to ensure their normal

 life during old-age. 26. In the case of M.Venugopal vs. The District Magistrate- cum-District Collector [(2014) 5 CTC 162 (Mad)], wherein the learned

 Single Judge of this Court, considered the scope of the Act as under:- 27. In the case of Radhamani and Others vs. State of Kerala [2015 SCC OnLine Ker 33530], wherein the Kerala High Court observed

 as under:- It stipulates that such transfer must be with the
 condition that (a) transferee shall provide the
 basic amenities and basic physical needs to the
 transferor and (b) such transferee refuses or fails
 to provide such amenities and physical needs.
 Therefore, a deed can be declared as void on
 fulfilling the two conditions enumerated as above,
 declaring transfer as a fraud or coercion or under
 undue influence, as the case may be at the option
 of the transferor. 9. The question in this case is in the absence
 of specific recital as conditions referred as above
 in the Settlement Deed, whether Tribunal has a
 power to declare transfer as void. 10. Section 122 of Transfer of Property Act, Page 33 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 1882 (hereinafter referred for brevity, as ‘the T.P.
 Act ’) defines “gift” as a transfer of certain
 existing moveable or immoveable property made
 voluntarily and without consideration. Section 126 of T.P. Act makes a provision to suspend or revoke
 the gift on happening of any specified event on
 which donor and donee may agree. The word
 ‘consideration’ in the context of Section 122 of
 T.P. Act, only refers to monetary consideration
 and does not include natural love and affection.
 However, it cannot be revoked on a mere Will of
 the donor. The gift or Settlement Deed on a
 promise to look after the donor at the old age is a
 transaction without any consideration. If such
 promise and expectation are treated to be a
 consideration, certainly transaction as a gift will
 be deemed to be void. Therefore, such conditions
 forming part of gift deed are also reiterated under Section 23 of the Senior Citizens Act, 2007. 11. Section 23 of the Senior Citizens Act,
 2007 does not contemplate that the condition
 should form part as recital in the deed of transfer.
 It only refers that there should be a condition for
 such transfer. This condition can be either express
 or implied. If there is no express recital in the Page 34 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 deed, the Tribunal has to look around
 circumstances to find out whether conduct
 otherwise dispel the intention of donor to revoke.
 The consideration for executing a gift deed or
 settlement deed is based on human conduct,
 caring and conscientious. Transfer admittedly is
 out of love and affection. Any donor in a gift deed
 would expect in a natural course of human
 conduct that donee continues to behave in same
 manner as behaved before execution of the deed.
 The love and affection influenced for execution of
 the deed certainly must be enduring and without
 any barrier. The human conduct in relation to a
 particular relation is presumed to exist in all set of
 circumstances for governing relationship of those
 individuals. Transferee cannot disown his own
 action of love and affection after the transfer
 comes into effect. The transfer itself being based
 on love and affection, that would form part as a
 condition of the transaction for future conduct as
 well. Thus, in the absence of any other
 circumstances to dispel, it must be presumed that
 transferor expects continuation of the care and
 love from the transferee even after execution of the
 deed in same manner, he was taken care prior to Page 35 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 execution of the deed. 12. It is to be noted that the special scheme
 in terms of Senior Citizens Act, 2007 could declare
 certain transfer as void, taking note of the fact that
 by taking advantage of the emotionally dependent
 senior citizens, relatives grab the property on the
 pretext of providing emotional support. Therefore,
 legislature thought such transaction could be
 declared as void as the conduct leading to
 transaction was based on malice or fraud.
 Therefore, condition referred in Section 23 has to
 be understood based on the conduct of the
 transferee and not with reference to the specific
 stipulation in the deed of transfer. Thus, this Court
 is of the view that it is not necessary that there
 should be a specific recital or stipulation as a
 condition in the transfer of deed itself. This
 condition mentioned in Section 23 is only
 referable as a conduct of the transferee, prior to
 and after execution of the deed of transfer. Thus,
 challenge based on the ground that there is no
 reference in the recital of deed that transferee will
 provide basic amenities and physical needs to the
 transferor is of no consequence. 13. Under Section 17 of the Indian Contract Page 36 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 Act, 1872, ‘fraud’ includes a promise made
 without any intention of performing it. Section 92 of the Evidence Act places a restriction on the
 admissibility of evidence in variance or in
 contradiction of the term of a registered document
 in writing. However, under second proviso to
 Section 92, the existence of any separate oral
 agreement as to any matter on which a document
 is silent, and which is not inconsistent with its
 terms, may be proved. Under third proviso to
 Section 92, the existence of any separate oral
 agreement, constituting a condition precedent to
 the attaching of any obligation under any such
 contract, grant or disposition of property may be
 proved. Thus, there is no requirement under law
 that condition as such should form part of written
 document. It can be implied from the
 circumstances of human conduct.” 28. In the case of Premkumar vs. Krishan Kumar Sharma

 and Others [AIR 2016 P&H 40], wherein the Punjab and Haryana High

 Court in paragraph-12 observed as under:- “28. SCHEME OF THE ACT- In order to appreciate and answer the
 aforesaid questions in the context of the factual
 matrix, it is necessary to analyze the relevant
 provisions of the said Act. The Statement of
 Objects and Reasons set out that the traditional
 norms and values of the Indian Society which lay
 stress on providing care for elderly getting
 diluted due to the withering of the joint family
 system, the elders are facing emotional neglect
 and lack of physical and financial support. Thus,
 aging has become a major social challenge and
 despite the provisions of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure , 1973 for maintenance, it was deemed
 necessary that there should be simple, inexpensive
 and speedy provisions to claim maintenance for
 the parents. The Act is not restricted to only
 providing maintenance but cast an obligation on
 the persons who inherit the property of their aged
 relatives to maintain such aged relatives. One of
 the major aims was to provide for the
 institutionalization of a suitable mechanism for Page 38 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 the protection of ‘life and property of older
 persons’. 29. In the case of Deepak Sharma vs. State of Rajasthan [(2017) 170 AIC 637], wherein the High Court of Rajasthan (Jaipur Bench),

 has observed in paragraphs-4, 9 to 14 as under:- Thus, maintenance awarded by the Tribunal in
 favour of the parents is too meager. A pensioner
 requires additional amount to supplement his day Page 42 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 to day living. Old parents have to maintain
 standard of life which they were having when one
 of them was in service. A father who has given his
 life long savings to settle the son cannot be denied
 fruits of earning by the son, merely because he is
 getting pension.” 30. In the case of Jayashree vs. Union of India [(2019) 200

 AIC 708], wherein in paragraph-21, the Kerala High Court observed as

 under:- 31. In the case of Anirban Chakraborty vs. State of West Page 43 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 Bengal [(2019) 201 AIC 647], wherein the High Court of Calcutta observed

 as under:- The Appellate Tribunal affirmed the order. In this
 case, the provisions of Section 23 and Section 6 of
 the said Act are required to be discussed. Section
 23 is quoted below:—
 “23. Transfer of property to be void in
 certain circumstances.- (1) Where any senior citizen who, after the
 commencement of this Act, has transferred by way
 of gift or otherwise, his property, subject to the
 condition that the transferee shall provide the Page 44 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 basic amenities and basic physical needs to the
 transferor and such transferee refuses or fails to
 provide such amenities and physical needs, the
 said transfer of property shall be deemed to have
 been made by fraud or coercion or under undue
 influence and shall at the option of the transferor
 be declared void by the Tribunal. (2) Where any senior citizen has a right to
 receive maintenance out of an estate and such
 estate or part thereof is transferred, the right to
 receive maintenance may be enforced against the
 transferee if the transferee has notice of the right,
 or if the transfer is gratuitous; but not against the
 transferee for consideration and without notice or
 right. (3) If, any senior citizen is incapable of
 enforcing the rights under sub-section (1) and (2),
 action may be taken on his behalf by any of the
 organisation referred to in Explanation to sub-
 section (1) of Section 5 .” 13. Section 23 of the said Act provides that
 when a property has been transferred by way of a
 gift or otherwise, by a senior citizen on the
 condition that the transferee or the donee would
 provide the basic amenities and basic physical Page 45 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 needs to the transferor or the donor but, such
 transferee or donee subsequently fails to provide
 such amenities then, it would be deemed that the
 transfer was made by fraud, coercion or undue
 influence and the transferor would have the option
 of obtaining a declaration from the Maintenance
 Tribunal that such transfer was void. 14. Coming to the deed of gift in this case, it
 appears that the grandfather had gifted the
 property to the petitioner out of love and affection
 and as a reward for the respect, regard and care
 that the petitioner had shown to the grandfather. It
 has been specifically stated in the deed by the
 grandfather, that is, the respondent No. 5 that
 being pleased with the care, love, affection,
 respect and good behavior of the grandson, he
 was executing the deed of gift as a reward in
 favour of his grandson and in discharge of his
 responsibility towards the grandson as also as a
 future security for the grandson. Thus, the deed of
 gift in this case was not a conditional gift and no
 responsibility had been cast upon the petitioner to
 maintain the grandfather that is, the respondent
 No. 5. That apart, according to the respondent no.
 5, the deed of gift was void and liable to be Page 46 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 cancelled having been obtained fraudulently. This
 is also not a case where respondent No. 5 had a
 right to receive maintenance out of an estate
 which was transferred by way of a gift to the
 petitioner and the petitioner not having given the
 maintenance out of the said estate, the respondent
 No. 5 in terms of Section 23(2) of the said Act had
 approached the Maintenance Tribunal. Section 27 of the said Act provides that a civil court shall not
 have any jurisdiction in respect of any matter to
 which the said Act applied and no injunction would be passed. However, the respondent No. 5 himself approached a civil court for cancellation
 of the deed of gift and also filed an application for
 temporary injunction prior to the order passed by
 the Chairman. The date of registration of Case
 No. 52 of 2017, before the Tribunal was November
 7, 2017, that is, after the plaint was registered on
 October 26, 2017. The cause of action in the civil
 suit as pleaded in the plaint, had arisen due to
 creation of the deed of gift by fraud, coercion and
 undue influence by the petitioner and his father.
 The respondent No. 5 prayed that the deed of gift
 should be declared illegal, void and liable to be
 cancelled by the civil court with a further prayer Page 47 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 for declaration of the right, title and interest of the
 respondent No. 5 in respect of the said property.
 Along with the plaint, the respondent No. 5 filed
 an application for temporary injunction under
 Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of
 the Code of Civil Procedure, with a prayer for an
 injunction upon the petitioner and the respondent
 No.6, restraining them from transferring and/or
 alienating the property in question as also from
 disturbing the peaceful possession and enjoyment
 of the property by the respondent No. 5 and 7.
 Thus, in this case, Section 27 of the said Act would
 not operate as a bar on the pending civil suit,
 inasmuch as, the ingredients of Section 23 of the
 said Act are not satisfied so as to enable the
 respondent no. 5 to maintain an application for a
 declaration that the deed of gift was void at his
 option under the said Act.” 32. In the case of Deepak Kumar vs. Phoolwanti Devi and

 Others [(2019) 201 AIC 395], the High Court of Rajasthan in paragraph-6

 observed as under:- “6. I have given my thoughtful
 consideration to the arguments advanced at bar Page 48 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 and gone through the material available on
 record. Indisputably, as per the sale deed placed
 on record with the reply by the respondents, the
 house in question is exclusively owned by the
 respondent Smt. Phoolwanti, who is registered
 owner thereof. The respondents while instituting
 the application under the Act of 2007,
 categorically asserted that the petitioner was not
 maintaining them and rather was harassing and
 ill-treating them in their own house, significant
 portion whereof had been provided by the
 respondent No. 1 to the petitioner for residence
 and for running his business. Thus,
 unquestionably, the respondent No. 1 Smt.
 Phoolwanti has a right under the scheme of the
 Act of 2007 to get vacated the portion of her own
 house, which, the petitioner had simply been given
 permission to reside and to do business. As the
 petitioner has failed to perform a son's
 obligations towards the parents, he has no right
 to stay on in their house contrary to their wishes
 and to their detriment.” Page 49 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 DISCUSSIONS: 33. Close reading of the principles considered by the various

 High Courts and the Supreme Court, there is no ambiguity with reference to

 the purpose and object sought to be achieved under the provisions of the

 Senior Citizen Act. Section 4(2) of the Act, unambiguously stipulates that

 the obligation of the children or the relative, as the case may be, to maintain

 a senior citizen extends to the needs of such citizen so that senior citizen

 may lead a normal life. 34. In the context of the adoption of the phrase “lead a normal

 life” Rule 20(2)(i) of the Maintenance of Senior Citizen Rules, enumerates

 that “it shall be the duty of the District Collector to ensure that life and

 property of senior citizens of the District are protected and they are able to

 live with security and dignity”. Therefore, normal life includes security

 and dignity. Thus the normal life as indicated under Section 4(2) of the Act,

 is not mere life, but a life with security and dignity. In the context of Article

 21 of the Constitution of India, life includes decent medical facility, food,

 shelter with dignity and security. All such combined necessities of human Page 50 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 life is falling under the term “Normal Life” emboldened under Section 4(2)

 of the Senior Citizen Act. Therefore, simply providing food and shelter

 would be insufficient. But life includes providing of decent medical

 facilities, food, shelter and other requirements with dignity in

 commensuration with the status of the family and taking into consideration

 of the living style of the senior citizen throughout. 35. Therefore, the children defending their case merely on the

 ground that they are willing to provide food and shelter, cannot be taken as

 a ground for the purpose of sustaining the Settlement Deed executed by the

 senior citizen. The requirement of the provisions are to be complied in its

 real spirit and in the event of an iota of doubt, the Authority Competent is

 empowered to cancel the Settlement Deed or Gift Deed, as the case may be,

 in order to protect the normal life of senior citizen. 36. Section 4(3) denotes, the obligation of the children to

 maintain his or her parent extends to the needs of such parent either father

 or mother or both, as the case may be, so that such parents may lead a

 normal life. Therefore, it is an obligation on the part of the children to Page 51 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 maintain his or her parents and ensure the parents to lead a normal life. In

 the event of complaint, the Authorities Competent are expected to ensure

 that the senior citizen and their life and dignity are protected. The above

 provision is to be read in conjunction with the Rules framed under the Act. 37. Rule 20 of the Maintenance of Senior Citizen Rules,

 provide duties and powers of the District Collector. The District Collector is

 casted upon the duty to ensure that the life and property of citizens of the

 District are protected and other people to live with security and dignity. Therefore, it is the statutory duty on the part of the District Collector to

 protect the safety and security of senior citizens in his District. Thus the

 complaint filed by the senior citizen, cannot be treated lightly. Such

 complaints are to be enquired into in a pragmatic manner, so as to

 understand the real grievances of the senior citizen and accordingly, all

 appropriate actions are to be initiated to provide safety, security and to

 protect the dignity of the senior citizen. 38. The Kerala High Court observed in the case of Radhamani

 and Others (cited supra), Section 23(1) of the Senior Citizen Act, cannot be Page 52 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 interpreted to the disadvantage of the senior citizen. Section 23(1) of the

 Act contemplates that “Where any senior citizen who, after the

 commencement of this Act, has by way of gift or otherwise, his property,

 subject to the condition that the transferee shall provide the basic amenities

 and basic physical needs to the transferor and such transferee refuses or fails

 to provide such amenities and physical needs, the said transfer of property

 shall be deemed to have been made by fraud or coercion or under undue

 influence and shall at the option of the transferor be declared void by the

 Tribunal”. The phrase “ subject to the condition that the transferee shall

 provide the basic amenities” does not mean that the Gift or Settlement Deed

 should contain any such condition expressly. “Subject to the condition” as

 employed in Section 23(1) , is to be holistically understood with reference to

 the subsequent phrase i.e., “deemed to have been made by fraud or coercion

 or undue influence”. Both the phrases would amplify that the deeming

 clause should be considered so as to form an opinion that the phrase

 “subject to condition” amounts to an implied condition to maintain the

 senior citizen and any violation would be sufficient for the purpose of

 invoking Section 23(1) of the Act, to cancel the Gift or Settlement Deed

 executed by the senior citizen. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 39. To elaborate, the phrase “subject to condition” employed

 under Section 23(1) of the Act, is to be understood with reference to the

 love and affection by the senior citizen towards the person in favour of

 whom such Gift or Settlement Deed has been executed. 40. “Love and Affection” is an implied condition in the context

 of Section 23(1) of the Act, and therefore, there need not be any express

 condition in the Settlement Deed for the purpose of maintaining the senior

 citizen. Refusal of maintenance after executing the Settlement Deed or Gift

 Deed, is the ground for invoking the deemed ground of fraud or coercion or

 undue influence. When the deeming clause has been incorporated under the

 provisions of Section 23(1) of the Act, 'Love and Affection' to be construed

 as the consideration for executing the Gift or Settlement Deed. Thus the

 condition need not be expressly made in the document and the love and

 affection, which resulted in execution of the Deed by the senior citizen is to

 be construed as a condition for the purpose of invoking the deeming clause

 for declaring the document as fraud or coercion or undue influence. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 41. The entire purpose and object of the Senior Citizens Act , is

 to consider the human conduct towards them. When the human conduct is

 indifferent towards senior citizen and their security and dignity are not

 protected, then the provisions of the Act, is to be pressed into service to

 safeguard the security and dignity of senior citizen. Therefore, the purposive

 interpretation of the provisions are of paramount importance and Section 23 of the Act, cannot be mis-utilised for the purpose of rejecting the complaint

 filed by the senior citizen on the ground that there is no express condition

 for maintaining the senior citizen. Even in the absence of any express

 condition in the document, “Love and Affection” being the consideration

 for execution of Gift or Settlement Deed, such love and affection becomes a

 deeming consideration and any violation is a ground to invoke Section

 23(1) of the Act. Thus there is no infirmity in respect of the order passed by

 the second respondent in the present case. 42. The human conduct in the context of the senior citizen Act,

 is to be understood considering the relationship between the senior citizen

 and the beneficiaries of the Gift or Settlement Deed. Mostly the parents are

 executing the document in favour of their children. Since they may not be in Page 55 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 a position to maintain the property at their old-age and more-so, they are

 intending to visibly express their love and affection towards their children

 by settling their properties. In some cases, the parents during their old-age

 are settling their property in order to avoid conflict between their children

 and to ensure that all children get equal share. If at all the parents decide to

 settle the property in favour of a son or daughter, then they are doing so,

 only with love and affection and with a fond hope that they will be taken

 care of by the son or daughter during their old-age. Thus love and affection,

 being the consideration and implied condition, within the meaning of Section 23(1) of the Act. The subsequent non-maintenance of senior citizen

 would attract Section 23(1) of the Act and the Authorities in such

 circumstances are empowered to declare the document as null and void. 43. Therefore, Section 23 is referable as a conduct of the

 transferee prior to and after execution of the Deed of Gift or Settlement, as

 the case may be. For all purposes, Section 23 is to be understood taking note

 of the conduct of the transferee and not with reference to the specific

 stipulation of condition in the Deed of Gift or Settlement. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 44. In respect of the judgment relied on by the petitioner in the

 case of Sudesh Chhikara vs. Ramti Devi and Another (cited supra), the

 Three Judges Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of

 S.Vanitha vs. Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban and District and

 Others (cited supra) is to be followed. There are several judgments to

 establish that the purpose and object of the Senior Citizens Act , is to be

 complied with in its letter and spirit in order to protect the life, security and

 dignity of senior citizens. Thus the judgment relied on by the petitioner is of

 no avail as far as the present facts and circumstances of the case on hand is

 concerned. 45. In the present case, the fourth respondent, who is the

 mother of the writ petitioner, could establish that after execution of

 Settlement Deed, the petitioner has refused to maintain his parents. Regarding the contentions of the petitioner that he purchased the subject

 property from and out of his own income. The documents are to be

 considered. The fourth respondent purchased the subject property vide Sale

 Deed dated 14.08.2003. The fourth respondent in her complaint stated that

 from and out of the income of her husband, gold jewels and savings, she had Page 57 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 purchased the subject property in the year 2003. In the affidavit filed in

 support of the present writ petition, the petitioner has stated that he is aged

 about 43 years. On the date of purchase of the subject property, he was

 around 23 years old. Thus a factual inference can be drawn by this Court

 that the statement made by the petitioner that he purchased the property in

 the year 2003 in the name of his mother-fourth respondent, cannot be

 trusted upon. The declaration given by the brother and two sisters of the

 petitioner was made with the fond hope that the petitioner would take care

 of the fourth respondent and her husband. The fourth respondent executed

 the Settlement Deed on 20.10.2020 and in the said document, the fourth

 respondent has stated as follows:- khtl;lg;gjpthsu; MgPrpy; 1 g[j;jfk; 4618- 46. The above recital in the Settlement Deed would amplify the

 good intention of the fourth respondent, who is the mother of the writ

 petitioner. She has stated that out of love and affection, to support the

 petitioner and for the betterment of his future life, she has executed the

 Settlement Deed in favour of the writ petitioner. When such being the

 recital, the natural expectation of a mother would be that she will be

 maintained by her son till her lifetime. Therefore, the recital shown above

 would be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of Section 23(1) of the

 Senior Citizens Act, since the “Love and Affection” and the good intention

 of the parents are the implied conditions for the purpose of invoking the

 deeming clause of fraud, coercion or undue influence. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 47. The facts established would be sufficient enough for

 arriving an inevitable conclusion that the fourth respondent is entitled for

 the relief as rightly granted by the respondents 1 and 2 and there is no

 infirmity or perversity in respect of the order impugned. 48. Accordingly, the present writ petition stands dismissed. However, there shall be no order as to costs. Consequently, the connected

 miscellaneous petition is also dismissed. 08-09-2023

 Index : Yes/No
 Internet: Yes/No
 Speaking order/Non-Speaking order
 Neutral Citation : Yes/No
 Svn Page 60 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 To 1.The District Collector,
 Tiruppur District. 2.The Executive Magistrate,
 And Revenue Divisional Officer,
 Tiruppur District. 3.The Sub Registrar Joint-I,
 Thiruppur,
 Thiruppur District. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.28190 of 2022 S.M.SUBRAMANIAM, J. Svn

 WP 28190 of 2022

 08-09-2023 Page 62 of 62 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis