(Cause title is taken from Case Information System)

 For Applicant(s) : Mr. P.K.Patel, Advocate
 For Respondent(s) : Mr. Nitansh Jaiswal, Dy.G.A.

 Hon'ble Shri Ramesh Sinha, Chief Justice

 Order on Board

 23.03.2026 1. The applicants have preferred this First Bail Application under

 Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for

 grant of regular bail, as they have been arrested in connection with

 Crime No.87/2023, registered at Police Station - Kirandul District -

 Dantewada (C.G.) for the offence punishable under Sections 318(4),

 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (BNS) and Section 66(D) of the 2 I.T. Act . 2. The case of the prosecution, is that the complainant namely Pradeep

 Kumar Khaparde S/o. Shri S.R. Khaparde, R/o. Nehru Colony, Qtr

 No. 02/65, Kirdandul, Police Station Kirandul, District Dantewada,

 had submitted written report in Police Station Kirandul District

 Dantewada, alleging therein that the accused persons had committed

 online cheat/fraud and obtained Rs.50,00,000/- from the

 complainant. Based on the report of the complainant, the Police

 Station Kirandul has lodged the report against Sandip Khare, Sachin

 Sahu, Arvind Kumar, Vidya Kumar, Kunal Trivedi, Sahil, Govind

 Kumar Yadav, Lalit Kumar for the offence punishable Under Section

 420 of the Indian penal Code, 1860 {Section 318(4) of the Bharatiya

 Nyay Sanhita, 2023}. 3. It is argued by the learned counsel for the applicants that the

 applicants are innocent and have been falsely implicated in this case

 and there are no criminal antecedents registered against the present

 applicant. It is further submitted that the charge-sheet has been filed

 in this case and applicant is in jail since 22.12.2025 and trial is likely

 to take quite long time for its conclusion, therefore, he prays for grant

 of bail to the applicants. 4. On the other hand, the learned State counsel opposes the bail

 application and submits that there is no criminal antecedents

 registered against the present applicant, and the charge-sheet has

 been filed in this case and in compliance of this Court's order dated

 03.02.2026, The Investigating Officer has filed his personal affidavit

 in the present matter, and the relevant paragraphs thereof are as

 follows: 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused all of the

 documents available on record. 6. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case,

 nature and gravity of allegation levelled against the applicant and the

 fact that there is no any criminal antecedents registered against the

 present applicant and as per the affidavit filed by the Investigating

 officer wherein it transpires that from the possession of applicant

 No.1 namely Arvind Kumar only one Vivo mobile phone and cash

 amounting to ₹550/-, and the ATM card of Nitesh Kumar were seized

 and from applicant No.2 namely Vidya Kumar, one PAN card and

 cash amounting to ₹1,050/- were seized from the separate

 possession, charge-sheet has been filed against the applicant, the

 applicants are in jail since 22.12.2025 and conclusion of the trial is

 likely to take some time, considering the detention period of the

 applicants I am inclined to allow this application of the applicants. 7. Let applicant No.1 Arvind Kumar and applicant No.2 Vidya Kumar 5 involved in Crime No.87/2023, registered at Police Station - Kirandul

District - Dantewada (C.G.) for the offence punishable under Sections

318(4), of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (BNS) and Section

66(D) of the I.T. Act, be released on bail on his furnishing a personal

bond with two local sureties in the like sum to the satisfaction of

the court concerned with the following conditions:- 8. Office is directed to send a certified copy of this order to the trial

 Court concerned for necessary information and compliance forthwith. Sd/- (Ramesh Sinha)
 Chief Justice

Vaishali