1. Present (second) petition under Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik

Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 has been filed for grant of regular bail to the petitioner in

case FIR No.78 dated 14.06.2025, under Sections 318(4), 61(2) of BNS, 2023

(Section 238(c) of BNSS added later on), registered at Police Station Cyber

Crime, Sector 20, Panchkula. 2. Brief facts of the prosecution are that on 14.06.2025, ASI Satish

Kumar received a secret information to the effect that one Karan Kumar misleads

illiterate and labour class people regarding Government schemes and gets their

saving accounts opened. He collects their passbooks, cheque books, ATM cards,

mobile SIMs registered with their bank accounts and retains the same with him.

He supplies the said account details further for the purpose of transfer of money

received through online frauds and later on, withdraws the amount through ATMs

himself. He is in possession of several ATM cards and passbooks. One Kanav

Kapoor (petitioner) collects savings bank details of the accounts got opened by

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 21-11-2025 05:06:59 ::: CRM-M-54182-2025 - 2-

Karan Kumar from different persons and mobile SIMs registered with the said

bank accounts and both are likely to meet at 8 pm for the aforesaid purpose at

Dhakoli Road, Sector 20 Panchkula. On checking at ICJS portal, one criminal

matter was found to be registered against each of the said accused. Thereafter, a

raiding party was constituted and the police reached at the aforesaid place and two

boys were nabbed. Two bundles of ATMs (total 18 ATMs) were recovered from

Karan Kumar, which were in the names of different persons alongwith cheque

books. Karan Kumar disclosed that he gets the savings bank accounts of the

innocent labourers opened and sells the same for a sum of Rs.3,000/- per bank

account to Kanav Kapoor (petitioner), who gets the money transferred in the said

accounts and withdraws the said money, which he later on hands over to him and

he used to pay the commission to Kanav Kapoor. One laptop, 8 mobile phones, 7

mobile SIM cards were also recovered from the bag of accused-Kanav Kapoor,

who was also enquired regarding the whatsapp chats exchanged with co-accused,

on which he disclosed that he used to procure the savings accounts registered in

the names of others from karan and transferred amounts received through online

cyber frauds by him and others in the said saving accounts through UPI/IMPS. On

checking, the recovered bank saving account numbers on cyber portal, 166 online

cyber fraud complaints were found registered on NCRP portal regarding online

cyber fraud in different States of India qua fraud of Rs.13.46 crores. During

investigation, recovered ATMs, laptops, 8 mobile phones, 7 SIM cards, passbooks

alongwith chequebooks were taken into possession. During further investigation,

disclosure statement of Kanav Kapoor was recorded, wherein he stated that he was

involved in the commission of sale/purchase of accounts and depositing the fraud

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 21-11-2025 05:07:00 ::: CRM-M-54182-2025 - 3-

money in the accounts of labourers. He disclosed that he learnt about USDT

trading, which involves buying USDT at low prices, making a profit and then

selling it back to others at a higher price and in an effort to earn more money, he

started trading USDT through the BINANCE App. When he began trading USDT

at a good level, he discovered that money earned through online fraud was also

transferred through USDT and the USDT purchased with this money was cheaper

than the market rate, resulting in higher profits. To purchase USDT, he had to

transfer money online and after purchasing USDT with the proceeds of cyber

frauds, the account would be frozen after some time. Thereafter, he started

purchasing bank accounts and used to deposit fraud/ cheated money in those

accounts in the name of USDT. After completion of investigation, challan/final

report has been presented qua the Kanav Kapoor (petitioner) and Karan Kumar,

while investigation qua other co-accused is still pending. 3. I have heard learned counsel for the petitioner as well as learned State

counsel and have gone through the record. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the petitioner has

been falsely implicated. There is no complaint from anyone regarding cheating

having been committed by the petitioner. The petitioner alongwith Karan Kumar

was apprehended merely on the basis of secret information. He has not cheated

any person. The petitioner is in custody since 14.06.2025. All the offences are

Magisterial trial. Learned counsel further contended that the disclosure statement

of the accused is not admissible. Learned counsel next contended that as per the

allegations in the FIR, there are 166 cyber complaints registered against 29 bank

accounts but no FIR has been registered regarding the same. Five private

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 21-11-2025 05:07:00 ::: CRM-M-54182-2025 - 4-

witnesses have been examined by the investigating officer during the present

investigation and none of them has named the petitioner as an accused. The trial

will take a long time to conclude and further detention of the petitioner is not

required and he may be released on bail. 5. On the other hand, learned State Counsel has opposed the bail and

argued that petitioner along with co-accused Karan Kumar has misled the innocent

people by getting their savings accounts opened and they used to transfer cheated

money through cyber crime in the accounts of innocent people and thereafter,

withdraw the same. Present petitioner is a part of cyber crime and used to convert

money obtained through fraudulent transactions. A large number of mobile

phones, laptops, ATM cards, passbooks and cheque books have been recovered,

which prima facie establishes his complicity in committing the crime. 166 online

cyber complaints have been found to be registered against the savings bank

accounts in question on NCRP portal, in which a total amount of Rs.13.46 crores

has been cheated. Petitioner has thus committed a grave offence and serious

infringement of law, resulting in registration of present FIR. In case he is released

on bail, he will indulge in similar offences or he may cause disappearance of

valuable evidence and accordingly, petitioner does not deserve the concession of

bail. 6. The allegations against the petitioner are serious in nature. He along

with co-accused Karan Kumar, used to get savings accounts of illiterate labourers

opened and Karan Kumar used to supply the account details to the petitioner, who

used to deposit the amount obtained by way of cyber fraud in those accounts and

later on withdraw the same. A large number of SIM cards, saving accounts, ATM

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 21-11-2025 05:07:00 ::: CRM-M-54182-2025 - 5-

cards, passbooks and cheque books have been recovered from the possession of

petitioner as well as co-accused Karan. In all, 166 online cyber complaints have

been found to be registered against the savings account numbers in question on

NCRP portal and a sum of Rs.13.46 crores has been deposited in those accounts,

which was cheated from the general public by way of cyber frauds. The petitioner

thus has committed a heinous offence. Such cyber crimes are increasing day by

day and in such cases, the accused not only cheat the persons from whom the

amount is illegally obtained by way of fraud, but they also play with the lives of

innocent poor people in whose savings accounts such money obtained by way of

cyber fraud is deposited. Such offences thus have to be dealt with an iron hand and

no leniency can be shown. 6. Taking into consideration the gravity of the offence and the facts

noticed hereinabove, I am of the opinion that petitioner does not deserve to be

released on bail and the present petition is hereby dismissed.