This petition has been filed by the petitioner under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, seeking the following reliefs:- 02. The grievance of the petitioner is that the petitioner is running a
 trust in the name of Vinayaka Education and Welfare Trust for educational
 purposes. Its account at Bank of Baroda has been freezed at the instance of
 respondent No.2, the Inspector of Police, Cybercrime Cell, Central Crime
 Branch, Chennai, as has been informed to the petitioner by the Bank. The
 account of the petitioner has been freeezed can also be demonstrated by the Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 08-Apr-25 11:32:18 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:9396

 2 WP-11336-2025
 statement of account, which was filed by the petitioner, on which the Bank
 authorities have endorsed that the account has been freezed. 03. Counsel for the petitioner has submitted that according to the
 information received, there is some transaction by the trust of the petitioner
 with one Anand Makwana, who was studying with the petitioner trust which
 according to respondent No.2 is of dubious nature, which has led to freezing
 of the petitioner's bank account. 04. Counsel has also drawn the attention of this Court to an order
 passed in an identical case, in the case of Gautam Bhandari and Others Vs.
 State Bank of India and Others passed in W.P. No.30822/2024 dated
 25.10.2024 wherein also, in an identical case, this Court had granted a relief
 to the petitioner that the amount which is disputed may be kept in a fixed

 deposit by the bank, with further direction that the competent Judicial
 Magistrate shall proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of
 Cr.P.C.. Thus, it is submitted that the petitioner also agrees that the amount
 relating to questionable transaction may be kept in a fixed deposit and the
 petitioner may be allowed to operate his account. 05. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the
 documents filed on record, this Court finds the prayer reasonable and
 innocuous, as no prejudice would be caused either to the Bank or to
 respondent No.2, if the disputed amount is kept in fixed deposits, as has been
 ordered by this Court in the case of Gautam Bhandari (Supra) . Thus
 maintaining the parity, this Court is inclined to allow the present petition as
 well. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:9396

 3 WP-11336-2025 06. So far as the order passed by this Court in the case of Gautam
 Bhandari (Supra) is concerned, the same reads as under:- 2. The grievance of the petitioners is that their accounts have been freezed on account of
 some fraudulent activity. 3. Counsel for the petitioners has submitted that the petitioners are medical students,
 studying in fourth semester in Aurobindo College, Indore and were also trading in Crypto
 currency, in which the aforesaid transactions were made in their accounts. It is submitted
 that the petitioners may be allowed to operate their accounts, as the disputed entries are
 already on hold. 4. Counsel for the respondent No.1/ SBI has submitted that no case for interference is made
 out, however, it is not denied that on earlier occasions, this Court had passed various orders
 and one such order was passed in the case of Malcolm Murayis and Others Vs. State Bank
 of India and Others, W.P. No.1100/2024 dated 26.04.2024. 5. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the documents filed on
 record, it is found that so far as the order passed in the case of Malcolm Murayis (Supra) is
 concerned, it has been observed as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 08-Apr-25 11:32:18 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:9396

 4 WP-11336-2025 6. On due consideration of the reliefs sought by the petitioners, as also the aforesaid order,
 this Court is inclined to dispose of this petition with a direction to the respondents/Bank to
 keep the disputed amount as informed to them by various cyber crime agencies, in fixed
 deposits, which shall be allowed to be liquidated only after the orders are passed by the
 competent Judicial Magistrate within three months' time as it is expected from the
 cybercrime police to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C., or any
 other law on which they are relying upon, failing which the amount so kept in FDs may
 also be allowed to be withdrawn by the petitioners under intimation to the cybercrime
 agencies. 7. With the aforesaid direction, the petition stands disposed of. 07. Accordingly, the present petition stands allowed with a direction to
 the respondent No.3/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to them
 by cybercrime agency (the respondent no.2), in a fixed deposit, which shall
 be allowed to be liquidated only after the order is passed by the competent
 Judicial Magistrate within three months' time as it is expected from the
 Cybercrime Police to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of
 Cr.P.C., or any other law on which they are relying upon, failing which the
 amount so kept in FDs may also be allowed to be withdrawn by the
 petitioner under intimation to the Cybercrime agency. 08. With the aforesaid, the petition stands allowed and disposed off. (PRANAY VERMA)
 JUDGE

 Shilpa Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 08-Apr-25 11:32:18 AM