There was a person named Sameer registered on the nobroker website with the phone number [protected] with email id [protected]@gmail.com. He came to visit my property on March 13th, 2025 and imitated the person Ghanshyam Bairwa. He said that he is employed with the Ministry of Home Affairs, Intelligence Bureau. His current posting is in Amritsar from the past 6 years and will soon be posted in Delhi from April 1st onwards. He also tried to create a common connection by saying that he is from Shri Ram College of Commerce, New Delhi as I also passed out from the same college. He said he will be coming with his wife along with his parents. I showed him some other property in which I am currently living as the flat which was to be given on rent was locked as tenants were out. The person selected the property on the very first and said now he will come only after March. He also mentioned he will be purchasing a bed and will be ordering online on March 28th, when the flat is going to be vacated whereas he won't be coming instead. I told him that there will be an agreement to which he agreed and said that he will get the agreement signed the day he shifts. I also mentioned that we will ask for the employee id to which he mentioned that he can show it but can't share it with me as it's confidential. He also showed me his employee id which mentioned that he is an employee of intelligence bureau. After seeing the property, he himself shared the Adhaar card in the name of Ghanshyam Bairwa and PAN Card along with Driving license. These were all matching to each other except that the photo on the driving license didn't match to that on Aadhaar and PAN. Also the face of the person who came to visit did not match with the photos on Aadhaar and PAN. His signature on PAN was not matching with that of Aadhaar Card. I further asked some questions related to his admission to SRCC as the cutoff is really high to which he answered the questions with a delay. I asked him to share some of the photos from College to which he shared two photos which were not matching with the person who came to visit. This created a suspicion in my mind as his face was not matching with any of the photos. Also, the phone number from which he called [protected], is in the name of Sunita Ch on Truecaller which did not match either with Ghanshyam or Sameer with which he is registered. Attaching the documents here that he shared. Want a strict action to be taken immediately and get this person's id blocked. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)