2. Though notice has validly been served upon the opposite party

 no.2 yet no one turns up on behalf of the opposite party no.2 in-

 spite of repeated calls. 3. This criminal miscellaneous petition has been filed invoking the

 jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. with the

 prayer to quash the order dated 25.07.2018 passed by the learned

 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Dhanbad in Dhanbad P.S. Case No. 127

 of 2018, corresponding to G.R. No. 1241 of 2018 by which the

 learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Dhanbad consequent upon the

 submission of the charge sheet by the police against the petitioner

 for having committed the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 1 Cr.M.P. No.804 of 2019 (2025:JHHC:35015)
 2020:JHHC:27247

 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code , has taken cognizance of

 the said offences. 4. It is submitted by the petitioner in person that in the meanwhile,

 charge has been framed against the petitioner but he does not

 remember the date when charge has been framed against him and

 he has not made any prayer for quashing the charge framed

 against him. 5. The allegation against the petitioner is that the petitioner in

 criminal conspiracy with the co-accused persons has cheated by

 impersonating as bank officer and dishonestly induced the

 informant, who was deceived him to part with Rs.12,00,000/- for

 transferring the same to the account of the co-accused persons.

 From the possession of the petitioner a large number of passbooks

 and ATM cards were recovered, which were used in commission

 of the said cybercrime. Though the petitioner is not named in the

 FIR but during the investigation of the case his complicity in the

 offence alleged has been found to be true and police submitted

 charge sheet against him and basing upon the same, learned Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, Dhanbad has taken cognizance of the offences

 as already indicated above. 6. The petitioner in person submits that no money has been

 credited to the account of the petitioner and none of the witnesses

 have alleged that the petitioner is anyway involved in the

 commission of the cybercrime either directly or indirectly. It is

 next submitted by the petitioner in person that without collecting 2 Cr.M.P. No.804 of 2019 (2025:JHHC:35015)
 2020:JHHC:27247

 any tangible evidence, police has submitted charge sheet against

 the petitioner and the allegations against the petitioner are all false

 and fabricated. It is further submitted by the petitioner in person

 that the co-accused persons in whose account money has been

 transferred are the real culprits and though the mother of the

 petitioner is a seizure list witness but she has not been made a

 witness in the charge sheet, which creates a doubt on the

 allegation against the petitioner. It is then submitted by the

 petitioner in person that the father of the petitioner filed

 informatory petition against Sunil Kumar, Station Head Officer of

 Town Police Station, Begusarai and others and hence Sunil Kumar

 without following the procedure helped the Dhanbad police to

 arrest the petitioner and damaged the house of the petitioner.

 Hence, it is submitted that the prayer as made in this criminal

 miscellaneous petition be allowed. 7. The learned Addl. P.P. on the other hand vehemently opposes

 the prayer as prayed for by the petitioner in this criminal

 miscellaneous petition and submits that the only contention of the

 petitioner for quashing the cognizance order is that the allegations

 against the petitioner are all false which is at best a defence which

 the petitioner can take at the time of full dress trial of the case but

 the same is not a ground to be considered at this stage. It is next

 submitted by the learned Addl. P.P. that passbooks and ATM

 cards which were used in commission of the cybercrime has been

 recovered from the possession of the petitioner and the same is 3 Cr.M.P. No.804 of 2019 (2025:JHHC:35015)
 2020:JHHC:27247

 tangible evidence which are enough to establish that the petitioner

 was involved in the commission of the said cybercrime. Hence, it

 is submitted that this criminal miscellaneous petition being

 without any merit be dismissed. 8. Having heard the submissions made at the Bar and after going

 through the materials available in the record, it is pertinent to

 mention here that it is a settled principle of law as has been held

 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of State of

 Madhya Pradesh vs. Awadh Kishore Gupta & Ors. reported in

 2004 2 Supreme 501 that the defence of the accused person and

 the veracity of the evidence put forth by the accused, cannot be

 considered in exercise of jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. by

 the High Court, as that would be job of the trial court. 9. It is also a settled principle of law as has been held by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Uttar Pradesh &

 Anr. vs. Akhil Sharda & Ors. reported in 2022 LiveLaw SC 594

 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India reiterated the settled

 principle of law that no mini trial can be conducted by the High

 Court in exercise of power under Section 482 Cr.P.C, the relevant

 portion of which reads as under :- 10. Now coming to the facts of the case, this Court finds that the only

 contention of the petitioner is that the allegations against the

 petitioner are all false which at best can be a defence which the

 petitioner can take in a full-dress trial of the case. 11. Upon going through the materials in the record, this Court finds

 that huge number of passbooks and ATM cards used in

 commission of cybercrime was recovered from the possession of

 the petitioner. There is ample materials in the record to suggest

 the involvement of the petitioner in the offence for which the

 learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Dhanbad has taken cognizance

 upon submission of the charge sheet. 12. Under such circumstances, this Court is of the considered view

 that there is no justifiable reason to accede to the prayer as made

 in this criminal miscellaneous petition, in exercise of the power of

 this court under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 13. Accordingly, this criminal miscellaneous petition being without

 any merit is dismissed. (Anil Kumar Choudhary, J.)

High Court of Jharkhand, Ranchi
Dated the 24th November, 2025
AFR/Sonu-Gunjan/- Uploaded on 08/12/2025 5 Cr.M.P. No.804 of 2019