Recently I wanted to purchase a car and so searched on OLX and found an ad for Maruti Alto 800 vxi model[protected] km running) with price tag Rs. 60500 in Jamshedpur location by a person named Manohar Singh on 16th March 2020 i.e on Monday. After contacting this person on OLX chat, he gave his whatsapp number (Mobile No. +91-[protected]) and told me to send message on whatsapp. After having chat he says he is from Indian army. I was really surprised with the car price and asked him to send more details and more photos of the vehicle. He then sent more photos of car, RC of vehicle, Driving License, Army ID as well as his Army Canteen Card details on whatsapp. After looking into the details, I asked him to share car location. He told me that the vehicle is in Ramgarh Army Office then I said, I will come from Jamshedpur to Ramgarh for car inspection but he refused and surprisingly said “We will send the car to your home location whenever you want through Army Parcel Department for which he demanded to deposit Rs 5000 as a security deposit to his paytm account (Account Details: Kesar Kumari Meena, Account Number: [protected], IFSC: PYTM0123456) which he claimed to be the account of Army office. I asked him why he is selling such a new and conditioned car in such a low price. Then he said that he has been transferred from Ramgarh due to which he wanted to sell his car in hurry. Then I told him that without checking the vehicle I will not transfer any amount. On which he emphasized and given assurance of Army that everything is genuine and authentic and told me that the whole money will be refunded by the delivery man in cash if I am not convinced with the condition of the vehicle. After making me lot of convince in the name of Indian army and soldiers, I payed him Rs 5000 as the requested account (i.e. Account of Kesar Kumari Meena) is also saying army transport office. On return he shared a receipt of Army Transport Parcel Department. After that he said it will be delivered by tomorrow (17 March 2020 i.e. Tuesday) and asked me to share my Aadhaar card and passport size photograph. Considering him to be an authentic person from Indian Army, I shared my Aadhar Card details, local address and photograph with him on his whatsapp number. After that a guy (named Sanjay Singh) called me in the name of army delivery post man on 17 March 2020 and informed me that he cannot deliver the vehicle unless I pay Rs 15500 further to the above mentioned account. Listening to which I called Manohar Singh that I will not pay a single penny before the delivery of the car but again they insisted me that there is some technical problem in their Army office because of which I had to pay Rs 15500 anyhow to deliver the vehicle in my address. Considering this as a genuine case, I got convinced and asked one of my friend to transfer the said amount to their account (Rs 15500 transfered to the account of Kesar Kumari Meena). And my friend finally transferred Rs 15500 from his paytm account to his paytm wallet. After they received the said amount, they again tried to trap me portraying some other reasons and started making pressure on me to transfer Rs 15000 more to their account. Finally I got convinced that he is a Fraud and asked him to return my amount but he said that my money will not be refunded and cut the phone.. Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (21)