% 31.05.2024 1. Present application has been filed under Section 439 Cr.P.C.
 read with Section 482 Cr.P.C. seeking regular bail in FIR No. RC
 2242022A0001/CBI/AC-VI(SIT)/New Delhi, dated 20.06.2022 under Section 120-B / 409 / 420 / 477-A IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section
 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (' PC Act '). Charge Sheet
 was filed by CBI on 15.10.2022 upon which cognizance has been taken
 against 75 accused persons/companies including the present applicant. 2. Case of CBI as per the Charge Sheet is as follows: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:58
 Corporation Ltd. ('DHFL'), Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan
 and others. Accused Kapil Wadhawan was the Chairman and
 Managing Director of DHFL and accused Dheeraj Wadhawan was
 the Director, actively involved in the day-to-day affairs of the
 company with full financial control including on the loan amounts
 borrowed from various banks and other public deposits. DHFL
 through these two main accused and others, induced the consortium
 banks to sanction loans aggregating to approximately Rs.42,000
 crores and siphoned off and misappropriated significant portion of
 funds by falsifying the books of accounts of DHFL. Wadhawan
 Brothers formed 87 shell companies for diverting the funds and
 deliberately defaulted on repayment of legitimate dues of the
 consortium banks, causing a wrongful loss of Rs.34,926.77 crores to
 the consortium lenders between the period January, 2010 to
 December, 2019 and also reflected some payments in favour of
 fictitious persons without any documentation through a fictitious
 portfolio with a code name 'Bandra Books'. (b) DHFL was incorporated as a company with limited liability on
 11.04.1984 with ROC, Maharashtra by the name of M/s Dewan
 Housing Finance and Leasing Company Limited. Subsequently, its
 name changed to Dewan Housing Development Finance Limited on
 26.09.1984. Main object of the company was to advance money to
 individuals, companies, corporations, co-operative societies and
 other entities to enable borrowers to erect or purchase houses or
 buildings etc. On 27.05.1999, DHFL was registered with the
 National Housing Bank as a Housing Finance Company. Kapil
 Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, while functioning as CMD and BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 2 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:58
 Director respectively, had dominion over the funds/loans availed
 from consortium banks and were accepting substantial public
 deposits in the company. In these capacities, they were holding
 offices as public servants and were essentially engaged in public
 duty. The consortium of banks sanctioned various credit facilities to
 DHFL under the consortium arrangement and the quantum of
 different credit facilities sanctioned was Rs.57,242.05 crores, out of
 which default was upto the extent of Rs.34,926.77 crores by DHFL
 and therefore, its accounts were classified as Non-Performing Assets
 ('NPA') on different dates and declared 'fraud' by each of the
 consortium leaders. (c) Apart from the credit facilities, sanctioned and disbursed by
 Union Bank of India, e-Andhra Bank and e-Corporation Bank to
 DHFL, banks also subscribed to Non-Convertible Debentures
 ('NCD') of DHFL between 2016 to 2018, relying on the
 representations by the borrower company and its Directors/Officers
 that the requirement of funds, purposes and utilisation thereof was
 genuine. M/s KPMG was assigned the work of conducting special
 review of DHFL for the period 01.04.2015 to 31.03.2019 by the
 consortium of banks to find out inter alia whether a fraud or
 diversion/siphoning of funds had occurred and whether any wrong
 practices were followed or offences committed. Account of DHFL
 was classified as NPA by Union Bank of India on 31.10.2019 with a
 total outstanding amount of Rs.3,679.42 crores, including NCDs
 amounting to Rs.261.91 Crores. (d) Wadhawan Brothers incorporated 87 shell companies, in
 pursuance of criminal conspiracy hatched with other accused persons BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 3 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:58
 and these companies were used for disbursement of money from
 DHFL, which was taken as loan from various banks. DHFL
 disbursed Rs.11,765.11 crores to these 87 shell companies between
 2007 and 2017, details whereof are furnished in the Charge Sheet
 and Wadhawan brothers appointed many of their employees,
 associates and relatives as vehicles to divert the funds. Loans to the
 shell entities were disbursed with no formal process of loan appraisal
 and assessment, security, etc. The funds were diverted for personal
 expenses such as chartered plane rent, foreign trips, credit cards
 payments, purchase of jewellery, expensive watches. To camouflage
 the funds advanced to the shell companies and to account for them in
 the books of accounts of DHFL, a branch with the name of Bandra
 Branch and code 001 was created in the Synergy system, which did
 not exist physically. In pursuance of the criminal conspiracy, funds
 of DHFL sanctioned and disbursed by consortium banks were
 fraudulently and dishonestly diverted and misappropriated. (e) Investigations revealed that amounts taken through the shell
 companies were utilized for repaying the other market borrowings of
 promoters, for personal expenses of Wadhawan brothers and real
 estate projects undertaken by M/s RKW Developers Private Limited
 and its associate companies. Wadhawan Brothers also acquired
 artworks including costly paintings from the funds sanctioned by the
 banks. Paintings/artwork was purchased from AstaGuru Auction
 House Pvt. Ltd. and Gallery Art & Soul between 2014-2019.
 Twenty-four paintings and one sculpture were purchased at an
 approximate cost of Rs.63 crores in the name of 4 different
 companies of Wadhawan Group incorporated in British Virgin BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 4 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 Islands in the name of Kapil Wadhawan, from the misappropriated
 money. Two of the 24 paintings (one of Manjeet Bawa and the other
 of Tyeb Mehta), were handed over to the applicant by Wadhawan
 Brothers. Deepak Kapoor was directed by the applicant and Dheeraj
 Wadhawan to enter into an agreement for assignment of the paintings
 in the name of Deepak Kapoor so that the paintings could be sold in
 the market. The sale proceeds were to be distributed amongst Deepak
 Kapoor (towards his outstanding dues from Wadhawan Brothers),
 applicant (towards commission for selling the paintings) and
 Wadhawan Brothers (for their personal use). An agreement/MoU
 showing date of 20.11.2018 was executed between M/s JVPD One
 Builders LLP and Deepak Kapoor for assignment of the two
 paintings to Deepak Kapoor towards full and final compensation for
 the services rendered by him in respect of Slum Rehabilitation at
 Pareirawadi. The MoU though purportedly shown to be executed on
 20.11.2018, was in fact executed and signed in November, 2021. The
 antedated MoU was prepared in pursuance of a criminal conspiracy
 between Wadhawan brothers, applicant and the notary advocate. (f) Applicant was well aware of the fact that paintings had been
 purchased from the funds borrowed from the consortium and
 misappropriated by Wadhawan Brothers and yet he dishonestly
 received and retained them in his possession. Paintings were
 removed from the possession of Wadhawan Brothers to prevent their
 seizure by lawful agencies in furtherance of the criminal conspiracy.
 During search of the residence of the applicant on 8th and 9th July,
 2022, the two paintings worth over Rs.30 crores were recovered in
 addition to cash of Rs.45 lakhs, 25 costly wrist watches and 3 mobile BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 5 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 phones, which were docketed in the search memo. This raises a
 strong suspicion that even the watches were purchased from the
 misappropriated funds and applicant is a co-conspirator in
 committing the offence of criminal breach of trust by aiding and
 abetting Wadhawan Brothers in alienating/concealing their assets
 and receiving the proceeds of crime. Wadhawan Brothers were held
 to be 'public servants' and embezzlement of the loan amount by
 them attracts Section 409 IPC, punishable with life and the applicant
 being a conspirator is liable for committing an offence under Section
 120-B IPC and can be sentenced to imprisonment for life, if
 convicted. 3. Applicant was arrested on 13.07.2022 and his first regular bail
 application was dismissed on 20.08.2022. As per judicial record, interim
 bail was granted to the applicant on 31.08.2022 for two weeks on medical
 grounds, which was extended from time to time. CBI filed an application
 on 28.10.2022 for cancellation of the interim bail on the ground that
 applicant was medically fit and stable as he could be seen enjoying parties
 at different places while on medical bail. Application was dismissed on
 05.09.2022 and interim bail was extended. In the meantime, applicant
 preferred a second bail application on 07.10.2022 and an application under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. on 12.10.2022. On 15.10.2022, final report was
 filed by CBI in terms of Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. On 06.12.2022, while
 applicant was on medical bail, learned Special Judge passed a direction for
 constituting a Medical Board at AIIMS for medical examination of the
 applicant, seeking response to five specific queries. By a detailed order
 dated 01.02.2023, Trial Court decided all the three applications i.e. second
 regular bail application dated 07.10.2022; application dated 12.10.2022 BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 6 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., both filed by the applicant; and application
 dated 28.10.2022 filed by the CBI seeking cancellation of interim bail.
 Regular bail application bearing No.239/2022 was dismissed on merits and
 interim bail granted vide order dated 31.08.2022 and extended from time to
 time, was cancelled. Applicant was directed to surrender on 04.02.2023 by
 3:00 PM, failing which IO was authorized to arrest him and produce him in
 Court for sending him to judicial custody. 4. approached this Court by way of the present application seeking
 regular bail and vide order dated 03.02.2023, Court extended the interim
 bail till the next date on medical grounds, subject to the condition that the
 moment applicant got discharged from Leelawati hospital, Mumbai, he
 shall inform the IO of the discharge. Interim bail was extended on various
 dates till 27.02.2024, on which date, Court directed the applicant to
 surrender, based on the updated medical report and as per the Jail surrender
 report, applicant surrendered on 02.03.2024 before the concerned Jail
 authorities. Subsequent thereto, present regular bail application was taken
 up for hearing. 5. Status report was filed by CBI reiterating the allegations against the
 applicant based on the Charge Sheet and highlighting the statements of
 some crucial witnesses given under Section 161 Cr.P.C. Contextualizing
 the allegations in respect of the applicant, case of CBI is that in furtherance
 of criminal conspiracy, he aided Wadhawan brothers to alienate/conceal
 their assets to avoid their seizure/forfeiture by law enforcement agencies.
 Applicant met Dheeraj Wadhawan while he was admitted at Kokilaben
 Hospital in judicial custody in another case, without seeking permission of
 the Court or Investigating Agency and it is here that the conspiracy was
 hatched between the applicant and the Wadhawan Brothers. Dheeraj BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 7 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 Wadhawan asked the applicant to help him in his legal matters related to
 cases registered by CBI and ED. As a backdrop, it was revealed during
 investigation that co-accused Kapil Wadhawan participated in an auction in
 August, 2017, where he bought a sculpture for Rs.19,20,047/- and costly
 paintings. Two costly paintings worth over Rs.30 Crores, purchased by
 Wadhawan Brothers from funds received by DHFL from consortium of
 banks were handed over to the applicant and were later recovered from his
 house during search. Back-dated MoU was executed in the hospital in
 November, 2021 by Wadhawan brothers with Deepak Kapoor for the
 purpose of sale of the paintings and the sale proceeds were to be distributed
 between Wadhawan brothers, Deepak Kapoor and the applicant. This was
 confirmed by Deepak Kapoor PW-137 in his statement and execution of
 the MoU and its back-dating was corroborated by PW-138 and PW-139.
 PW-124 Siddharth Ladhe, nephew of the applicant stated that the two
 paintings were at the residence of the applicant and he also brought forth
 that applicant had received Rs.1.5 crores from Dheeraj Wadhawan.
 Investigations revealed that applicant was into liasoning work with
 different entities and departments in Mumbai and is very influential. He is
 closely associated with the Wadhawan Brothers. 6. It is further stated in the status report that applicant has played a
 significant and active role in siphoning off assets created by the Wadhawan
 Brothers from the funds received by DHFL from the consortium of banks.
 Trial Court has, by two separate detailed orders, dismissed the regular bail
 applications of the applicant, noting the crucial role played by the applicant
 as a conspirator and the possibility of his tampering with evidence and
 threatening and intimidating witnesses, being an influential person and
 having a considerable clout in Mumbai. Historically, applicant has misused BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 8 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 the interim bail granted to him on medical grounds for partying and leisure
 trips, which is fortified by photographs and videos in public domain, which
 also proves that he has no serious health issue and medical ailments were
 being used to seek and extend interim bail. Applicant is a flight risk and
 being a conspirator in commission of a serious economic offence, which
 constitutes a class apart and needs to be visited with a different approach,
 he does not deserve to be enlarged on bail. 7. Learned Senior counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated. The main role ascribed to the
 applicant is that he was facilitating sale of two paintings worth
 approximately Rs.30 crores, allegedly bought by Wadhawan Brothers from
 the funds borrowed from the consortium of 17 banks. This is wholly
 incorrect and false. Applicant had no association/connection with DHFL
 or its promoters/Directors and/or their borrowings from the Banks.
 Even going by the Charge Sheet, allegations of cheating, forgery,
 misappropriation, breach of trust, diversion of funds etc. levelled against
 the Wadhawan brothers pertain to the period 2010 to 2019. Applicant came
 in contact with Wadhawan Brothers for the first time only in November,
 2021 and thus cannot be party to the alleged conspiracy. At the highest,
 applicant can be held culpable for commission of offence under Section
 411 IPC for keeping the two paintings in his house and the offence is
 punishable with imprisonment upto a maximum period of 3 years. The
 other offence allegedly committed is under Section 206 IPC, which is
 bailable with maximum imprisonment of 2 years. Assuming for the sake of
 argument, offence under Section 465 IPC is made out for preparing
 back-dated MoU, the same is bailable. Charging the applicant under
 Section 120-B read with Sections 206/409/411/420/424/465/468/477-A BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 9 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59 IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of PC Act and
 substantive offences thereof, will not withstand judicial scrutiny. 8. Next contention on behalf of the applicant, without prejudice to the
 above, was that the alleged offence under Section 411 IPC is not made out
 against the applicant in the absence of dishonest intention to appropriate the
 paintings and/or the sale proceeds. Applicant had, in fact, asked Deepak
 Kapoor not to sell the paintings and return the same back to Wadhawan
 Brothers and wait for him to come out of custody to recover his dues. It
 was urged that applicant had no knowledge that the two paintings were
 purchased by Wadhawan Brothers from the funds pertaining to loan
 transactions with the Banks' consortium and thus in the absence of mens
 rea and wrongful loss or gain to anyone, no culpability can be fastened on
 the applicant. Applicant was merely a custodian of the paintings and had no
 role in their proposed alienation. Deepak Kapoor in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. categorically stated that the paintings were intended to
 be delivered to him against his recoverable dues from the Wadhawan
 Brothers and were given to the applicant to keep them safely as the
 dimensions of the paintings were too big for his house. Even otherwise, the
 paintings were purchased by Wadhawan Brothers on 26.03.2018 as per the
 prosecution case and loan facilities were further reviewed on 11.09.2018,
 i.e. after purchase of the paintings. 9. Applicant had no role to play in the execution of the alleged MoU
 between Dheeraj Wadhawan and Deepak Kapoor pertaining to the sale of
 the paintings, was the next submission of the learned Senior Counsel. He
 was neither a party to the agreement nor a beneficiary and cannot be
 blamed for the alleged ante-dating of the document. In the case of co-
 accused Sunny Bathija, while granting regular bail, Co-ordinate Bench of BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 10 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 this Court has observed that admittedly there was no forgery in the
 agreement. Even otherwise, ante-dating a document is not an offence under Section 464 IPC, contrary to the flawed understanding of CBI on this
 aspect. 10. It was further contended that CBI has adopted a pick and choose
 policy in arresting the applicant whereas against several persons Charge
 Sheet was been filed without arrest, despite serious allegations. In State of
 Madhya Pradesh v. Sheetla Sahai and Others , (2009) 8 SCC 617, the
 Supreme Court has condemned the discriminatory approach of the
 Investigating Agency in applying different yardsticks to different people
 accused under the same FIR. Co-accused Sunny Bathija has been granted
 bail by this Court vide order dated 12.04.2023 in BAIL APPLN. 271/2023
 and there is no reason to continue the applicant in custody, when he has no
 role and is innocent. 11. Applicant satisfies all three parameters which the Court is required to
 consider for grant of bail viz: (a) flight risk; (b) tampering with evidence;
 and (c) influencing witnesses. There is no allegation by the CBI that
 applicant is a flight risk inasmuch as he was summoned as a witness under Section 160 Cr.P.C. on 09.07.2022 albeit he was unable to appear due to
 ill-health and had sought time, but had thereafter made himself available
 for investigation on 13.07.2022, when he was arrested. Applicant has fully
 participated in the investigation to vindicate his stand. Applicant has been
 on interim bail on medical grounds and has never misused the liberty
 granted. He has clean antecedents and is a person with deep roots in the
 society. Applicant is a permanent resident of Mumbai where he lives with
 his wife. There is no allegation that applicant made any attempt to tamper
 with evidence or intimidate any witness since the commencement of BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 11 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 investigation in the present case. Even otherwise, all relevant documents
 have been seized by the CBI and are in its possession. Statements of the
 witnesses have been recorded and there is no possibility of influencing or
 intimidating the witnesses. 12. It was argued that applicant is suffering from multiple ailments such
 as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and potts spine,
 for which he has undergone surgeries. Applicant has been admitted and
 treated in different hospitals from time to time for the serious ailments,
 such as Escorts Fortis Hospital, Kokilaben Hospital, etc. Health condition
 of the applicant is deteriorating because of prolonged incarceration and
 lack of proper medical facilities in jail. Right to health is a fundamental
 right recognized and enshrined in the Constitution of India and thus on
 medical grounds alone, applicant is entitled to bail. 13. Learned Senior counsel, to buttress his arguments, relied upon
 judgements on general principles of grant of bail, discrimination in arrest,
 long incarceration, grant of bail if charge sheet has been filed and are: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 Another, 2022 SCC Online SC 1506; Sujay U. Desai v. Serious Fraud
 Investigation Office , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1507; Zahur Haider Zaidi v.
 Central Bureau of Investigation , (2019) 20 SCC 404; Radhye Shyam v.
 State , 2021 SCC OnLine Del 4997; R. Vasudevan v. CBI, New Delhi ,
 2010 SCC OnLine Del 130; K.R. Purushothaman v. State of Kerala ,
 (2005) 12 SCC 631; V.C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Administration ), (1980) 2
 SCC 665; Mohan v. State of Madhya Pradesh, Criminal Appeal No. 630
 of 2020 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 10460/2019), decided on
 24.09.2020; Mohan Lal v. State of Maharashtra , (1979) 4 SCC 751; and Sharad Mahadev More v. State of Maharashtra at the instance of V.P.
 Police Station, 2018 SCC OnLine Bom 1471. 14. Mr. Sharrma, learned SPP appearing for the CBI submits that the
 allegations against the applicant are grave and serious and he not innocent.
 It was stressed that there is no false implication. Relying on the status
 report, it was urged that present case RC 2242022A0001/CBI/AC-
 VI(SIT)/New Delhi was registered by CBI on 20.06.2022 for commission
 of offences punishable under Section 120-B / 409 / 420 / 477-A IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of PC Act, against DHFL,
 Wadhawan Brothers and others for entering into criminal conspiracy to
 cheat a consortium of 17 banks led by UBI inducing them to sanction huge
 loans aggregating to Rs.42,000 crores approximately and siphoning off and
 misappropriating significant portion of the said funds by falsifying the
 books of accounts. Wadhawan Brothers siphoned off public funds by way
 of sanctioning loans to different shell companies owned or controlled by
 them either directly or indirectly, through DHFL. The loans were disguised
 as retail loans in the books of accounts and they deliberately and
 dishonestly defaulted on repayment of legitimate dues of the consortium BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 13 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 banks causing a wrongful loss of Rs.34,926.77 crores to the consortium
 lenders between January, 2010 to December, 2010 and are involved in
 several other cases, which are under investigation by the CBI and other
 agencies. 15. Applicant was arrested on 13.07.2022 while Wadhawan Brothers
 were arrested on 19.07.2022 and co-accused Sunny Bathija was arrested on
 12.10.2022. On 15.10.2022 final report was filed under Section 173 Cr.P.C.
 against several persons including the applicant. Learned Special Judge took
 cognizance of the offence against all charge-sheeted 75 accused persons/
 entities including the applicant vide order dated 26.11.2022. 16. Investigations revealed that the applicant was a co-conspirator for
 aiding and abetting Wadhawan Brothers to alienate/conceal their assets to
 avoid their seizure/forfeiture by law enforcement agencies. Applicant may
 not have a direct role in the procurement of loan by Wadhawan Brothers
 from the banks or misappropriation/embezzlement of the amounts taken as
 loan, however, he has a clear role in entering into conspiracy with them for
 the purpose of disposal of embezzled money and if the commission of
 offence is established, applicant can be sentenced to imprisonment for life.
 Applicant dishonestly kept the valuable assets i.e. the paintings bought
 from the embezzled/misappropriated amount with the object of concealing
 them and saving them from attachment and seizure. Recovery of the two
 paintings, worth over Rs.30 crores is not disputed by the applicant and in
 fact, in the bail application before the Trial Court, he claimed that he was a
 custodian of the paintings. 17. It was further submitted that from one of the three mobiles recovered
 from the residence of the applicant during search, analysis of data revealed
 that applicant took Rs.1.30 crores from Dheeraj Wadhawan. During search BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 14 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 of his residence, besides the two costly paintings, 25 wrist watches and
 cash worth Rs.45 lacs were recovered and there is a strong suspicion that
 these items are bought from the money misappropriated by Wadhawan
 brothers, in whole or in part and this recovery is also undisputed. Forensic
 analysis of the mobile phone is yet to be conducted and further
 incriminating facts may come to light. Trial Court while dismissing the first
 and second bail applications, has rendered a finding that role of the
 applicant is not restricted to recovery of paintings and there is material to
 show his involvement in dealing with and diverting the loan amounts,
 siphoned off by the Wadhawan brothers. 18. Applicant was regularly meeting co-accused Dheeraj Wadhawan
 when he was admitted at Kokilaben Hospital in judicial custody in another
 case, without seeking permission from the Court or the investigating
 agency. Applicant took possession of the paintings and induced PW-137
 Deepak Kapoor, to whom Dheeraj Wadhawan allegedly owed some
 money, to enter into an agreement with Dheeraj Wadhawan so that Deepak
 Kapoor could realize his outstanding dues and applicant could earn his
 commission from the sale proceeds of the paintings. In this regard, a back-
 dated MoU was executed in November, 2021 in the hospital itself.
 Applicant was aware that proceedings for attachment of assets/properties of
 Wadhawan Brothers was ongoing by the enforcement agencies and the
 banks and despite this, he helped them in concealing the paintings and
 facilitating their sale. These facts clearly emerge from the statement of
 Deepak Kapoor. 19. PW-124 Siddharth Ladhe, nephew of the applicant in his statement
 stated that applicant had received Rs.1.5 crores from Dheeraj Wadhawan
 and the two paintings were at his residence. Applicant was closely BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 15 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 associated with the Wadhawan Brothers. PW-138 Hamza Shehnaz stated
 that he was asked by the applicant to accompany Deepak Kapoor for
 execution of some documents and in this connection the witness met
 Dheeraj Wadhawan at Kokilaben Hospital, where the MoU was notarized.
 Thereafter, he accompanied Deepak Kapoor to KEML Hospital where they
 met Kapil Wadhawan and the documents were signed. PW-139 Suraj
 Jagtiani stated that the applicant had asked him to arrange for old stamp
 papers, required for execution of the MoU in favour of Deepak Kapoor for
 transfer of paintings and he had contacted a stamp vendor, who delivered
 the stamp papers at applicant's residence. Few days later, he was informed
 that MoU had been executed and paintings were at applicant's residence
 and he should look for prospective buyers. CBI has also charge-sheeted the
 Notary Public for false attestation of the MoU. 20. The allegation of discriminatory treatment by CBI was vehemently
 denied by the learned SPP and it was urged that the applicant is a part of
 the criminal conspiracy and involved in not only concealing and attempting
 to alienate the proceeds of crime but also fabricating, falsifying and back-
 dating agreements to facilitate disposal of assets bought from the
 misappropriated funds. Had the applicant not been arrested, it was a
 certainty that he would have tampered with evidence and disposed of the
 property of crime, which was subject matter of investigation. Questioning
 the applicability of the judgment in Sheetla Sahai (supra), it was argued
 that there was no discrimination in the present case and moreover, it is for
 CBI to charter the course of investigation and action with respect to who is
 required to be arrested, depending on the material on record, role of an
 individual, need for custodial investigation etc. Reliance was placed on the
 judgement in A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Nayak and Another , (1988) 2 SCC 602, BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 16 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 wherein the Supreme Court held that it is the right of the prosecution to
 decide whom to prosecute and it can decline to array a person as a co-
 accused and examine a person as a witness for the prosecution. 21. It was argued that mere completion of investigation and filing of
 Charge Sheet cannot be a reason enough to grant bail to an accused. In Y.S.
 Jagan Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2013) 7 SCC
 439, bail was denied to the accused where further investigation was
 pending. Investigation is on-going in the present case and many aspects and
 links are yet to be unearthed. Wadhawan Brothers were granted statutory
 bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. by the Special Judge, which was affirmed
 by this Court but the order was set-aside by the Supreme Court vide
 judgment dated 24.01.2024 in case titled Central Bureau of Investigation
 v. Kapil Wadhawan and Another , (2024) 3 SCC 734. 22. It was further argued that mere length of incarceration cannot by
 itself be a reason to grant bail to the applicant considering the seriousness
 of the offences committed, conduct of the applicant during the period he
 was on interim medical bail and the high possibility of the applicant
 influencing, threatening and pressurising the witnesses. On a factual note,
 applicant has been in actual physical custody only for approximately five
 months as he was arrested on 13.07.2022, released on interim bail on
 31.08.2022, which was extended till his surrender on 02.03.2024. Interim
 bail was sought on exaggerated medical grounds, as observed by the Trial
 Court while rejecting his regular bail application and while on interim bail,
 applicant misused the concession granted by the Court to the hilt. The
 judgments relied upon by the applicant on the proposition that an accused
 cannot be detained indefinitely, awaiting completion of investigation or
 trial will be inapplicable in the present case involving massive fraud BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 17 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 concerning public money and in light of substantial incriminating material
 evidencing that applicant has played an active role in conspiring with the
 main accused persons in disposing/concealing the siphoning off and
 misappropriated funds received from the consortium of 17 Banks. 23. It was urged that merely because Charge Sheet has been filed against
 the applicant, cannot be the sole basis to grant bail. This Court in Mukesh
 Jain (supra), held that considering huge amount of public funds was
 involved in the matter, the mere fact that charge sheet has been filed, will
 not entitle the accused to bail. In the present case, investigation is ongoing
 and even otherwise looking at the nature of offence committed and
 considering that the matter is at a nascent stage, applicant is not entitled to
 be enlarged on bail. 24. It was further argued that applicant has placed heavy reliance on the
 bail order in the case of Sunny Bathija to contend that ante-dating a
 document is not an offence under Section 464 IPC as there is an
 observation in the order that there is no forgery in the MoU. This reliance is
 misplaced as the order was challenged before the Supreme Court in
 SLP(Crl.) 9005/2023 and after notice matter is pending consideration. Even
 assuming for the sake of argument that back-dating the MoU does not
 strictly come within the purview of forgery or preparation of false
 document under Section 464 IPC, the document was prepared to facilitate
 the sale of paintings, in conspiracy with the Wadhawan Brothers, with an
 intent to appropriate the sale proceeds, thereby causing wrongful gain to
 the Wadhawan Brothers and to himself. 25. It was strenuously contended that the conduct of the applicant
 disentitles him to the concession of regular bail by this Court. Impugned
 order of the Trial Court details the medical ailments of the applicant and BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 18 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 basis the medical reports including the opinion of the Medical Board of
 AIIMS, Trial Court has rendered a finding that the medical problems as
 projected were not of such nature which require the applicant to be kept
 outside the jail. Trial Court observed that the applicant with the help of
 doctors and private hospitals concerned, apparently manipulated the
 medical records to exaggerate the seriousness of the ailments. It was
 highlighted that applicant misused the liberty granted by the Court as being
 on medical bail he was found partying, enjoying luxury holidays at Goa
 and other places as well as gambling at Mumbai in respect of which an FIR
 No.175/2024 was registered by PS: Santa Cruz. Efforts were made to
 misguide the prosecution by sending messages from a different mobile
 number which did not belong to him so that his location could not be
 traced. Looking at the gravity of the offence and the conduct of the
 applicant, Trial Court dismissed the bail applications on two occasions.
 Thus, the applicant is not deserving of bail on medical grounds. The
 medical issues can certainly be addressed and treated in the jail hospital or
 the Referral hospitals, if required. 26. It was argued that applicant is a flight risk and there are every
 chances of his fleeing from justice. He holds a considerable clout in
 Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra, where majority of the witnesses in
 this case reside and there is great possibility that he would tamper with
 evidence and influence witnesses. 27. Reliance was placed on behalf of CBI on the judgement in Nimmagadda Prasad v. CBI , AIR 2013 SC 2821, wherein the Supreme
 Court held that unfortunately in the last few years, country has been seeing
 an alarming rise in white-collar crimes, which has affected the fibre of
 country's economic structure. Incontrovertibly, economic offences have BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 19 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 serious repercussions on the development of the country as a whole. Other
 judgments relied upon were: State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji
 Porwal and Another , (1987) 2 SCC 364; Mukesh Jain v. CBI, Bail Appln . No. 2179 of 2009, decided on 21.12.2009; Ash Mohammad v. Shiv Raj
 Singh alias Lalla Babu and Another, (2012) 9 SCC 446; Surya Kirti
 Thapar v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2014 SCC OnLine Del 6601; Vinod
 Bhandari v. State of Madhya Pradesh , (2015) 11 SCC 502; Sunil Dahiya
 v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi ), 2016 SCC OnLine Del 5566; State of
 Bihar and Anr. v Amit Kumar alias Bacha Rai, AIR 2017 SC 2487, Anil
 Kumar Yadav v. State (NCT of Delhi ), AIR 2017 SC 5398; P.
 Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC 24; Md. Arif
 v. Govt. of India , AIR Online 2020 Ori 281; Vishwanath Biradar v.
 Deepika and Others , 2021 SCC OnLine SC 3615; and Jaibunisha v.
 Meharban and Another, (2022) 5 SCC 465. 28. I have heard Mr. Vikas Pahwa, learned Senior Counsel and Mr.
 Anupam S. Sharrma, SPP, CBI and examined their rival contentions. 29. Before proceeding further, it would be expedient to encapsulate the
 settled position of law on grant of bail. In Ram Govind Upadhyay v.
 Sudarshan Singh and Others , (2002) 3 SCC 598, the Supreme Court
 elucidated certain factors which must be borne in mind by the Court
 considering an application for grant of bail and I quote: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59 (b) Reasonable apprehensions of the witnesses being tampered with or
 the apprehension of there being a threat for the complainant should
 also weigh with the court in the matter of grant of bail. (c) While it is not expected to have the entire evidence establishing the
 guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt but there ought always
 to be a prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the charge. (d) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it is only
 the element of genuineness that shall have to be considered in the
 matter of grant of bail, and in the event of there being some doubt as
 to the genuineness of the prosecution, in the normal course of events,
 the accused is entitled to an order of bail." 30. Relying on the aforesaid judgment and the judgment in State of UP
 through CBI v. Amarmani Tripathi, (2005) 8 SCC 21 and other judicial
 precedents, the Supreme Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis
 Chatterjee and Another , (2010) 14 SCC 496, re-stated the following
 factors, which must be kept in mind when adjudicating a bail application: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59 31. In the celebrated judgment in Sanjay Chandra (supra), relied upon
 by the learned Senior counsel, the Supreme Court re-emphasized the
 fundamental principle of bail jurisprudence laid down from the earliest
 times that object of bail is neither punitive nor preventive but is to secure
 appearance of the accused person at the trial and deprivation of liberty must
 be considered as a punishment, unless it is required to ensure that an
 accused person will stand his trial when called upon. It was also observed
 that it is not in the interest of justice that accused should be in jail for an
 indefinite period and though the offence is serious in terms of alleged huge
 loss to the State Exchequer but that by itself should not deter the Court
 from enlarging the accused on bail. This proposition is too well-settled and
 to this extent, reliance by learned Senior counsel for the applicant on the
 judgments in Satender Kumar Antil (supra); and P. Chidambaram v.
 Directorate of Enforcement , (2020) 13 SCC 791, etc. is correct. 32. At this stage, it must however be penned down that relevant
 parameters for grant of bail in cases involving economic offences have
 been delineated by the Supreme Court separately in several cases. In Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal (supra), the Supreme Court observed as under: 33. In Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy (supra), the Supreme Court observed
 as under: "34. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited
 with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic offences
 having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds
 need to be viewed seriously and considered as grave offences affecting the
 economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to
 the financial health of the country. 35. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature of
 accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the severity of the
 punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused,
 circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of
 securing the presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension
 of the witnesses being tampered with, the larger interests of the
 public/State and other similar considerations. 36. Taking note of all these facts and the huge magnitude of the case
 and also the request of CBI asking for further time for completion of the
 investigation in filing the charge-sheet(s), without expressing any opinion
 on the merits, we are of the opinion that the release of the appellant at this
 stage may hamper the investigation. However, we direct CBI to complete
 the investigation and file the charge-sheet(s) within a period of 4 months
 from today. Thereafter, as observed in the earlier order dated 5-10-2012
 [ Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 450. For text of the
 order see also para 17, below.], the appellant is free to renew his prayer
 for bail before the trial court and if any such petition is filed, the trial
 court is free to consider the prayer for bail independently on its own
 merits without being influenced by dismissal of the present appeal." 34. In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC
 24, the Supreme Court observed as under: 75. Observing that the arrest is a part of the investigation intended to
 secure several purposes, in Adri Dharan Das v. State of W.B. [(2005) 4
 SCC 303 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 933] , it was held as under: (SCC p. 313, para 19)
 "19. Ordinarily, arrest is a part of the process of investigation
 intended to secure several purposes. The accused may have to be
 questioned in detail regarding various facets of motive, preparation,
 commission and aftermath of the crime and the connection of other
 persons, if any, in the crime. There may be circumstances in which the
 accused may provide information leading to discovery of material
 facts. It may be necessary to curtail his freedom in order to enable the
 investigation to proceed without hindrance and to protect witnesses
 and persons connected with the victim of the crime, to prevent his
 disappearance, to maintain law and order in the locality. For these or
 other reasons, arrest may become an inevitable part of the process of
 investigation. The legality of the proposed arrest cannot be gone into
 in an application under Section 438 of the Code. The role of the
 investigator is well defined and the jurisdictional scope of interference
 by the court in the process of investigation is limited. The court
 ordinarily will not interfere with the investigation of a crime or with
 the arrest of the accused in a cognizable offence. An interim order
 restraining arrest, if passed while dealing with an application under
 Section 438 of the Code will amount to interference in the
 investigation, which cannot, at any rate, be done under Section 438 of
 the Code." 80. Observing that economic offence is committed with deliberate
 design with an eye on personal profit regardless to the consequence to the
 community, in State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal [(1987) 2
 SCC 364 : 1987 SCC (Cri) 364] , it was held as under: (SCC p. 371, para 5)
 "5. ... The entire community is aggrieved if the economic offenders
 who ruin the economy of the State are not brought to book. A murder
 may be committed in the heat of moment upon passions being aroused.
 An economic offence is committed with cool calculation and BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 24 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:05:59
 deliberate design with an eye on personal profit regardless of the
 consequence to the community. A disregard for the interest of the
 community can be manifested only at the cost of forfeiting the trust
 and faith of the community in the system to administer justice in an
 even-handed manner without fear of criticism from the quarters which
 view white collar crimes with a permissive eye unmindful of the
 damage done to the national economy and national interest." 81. Observing that economic offences constitute a class apart and need
 to be visited with different approach in the matter of bail, in Y.S. Jagan
 Mohan Reddy v. CBI [(2013) 7 SCC 439 : (2013) 3 SCC (Cri) 552] , the
 Supreme Court held as under: (SCC p. 449, paras 34-35)
 "34. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited
 with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic offences
 having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public
 funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as grave offences
 affecting the economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing
 serious threat to the financial health of the country. 35. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature of
 accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the severity of
 the punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the
 accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable
 possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the trial,
 reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with,
 the larger interests of the public/State and other similar
 considerations." (emphasis supplied)" 16. In CBI v. V. Vijay Sai Reddy [(2013) 7 SCC 452 : (2013) 3 SCC
 (Cri) 563] , the Court had reiterated the principle by observing thus : The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:06:00
 larger interests of the public/State and other similar considerations. It
 has also to be kept in mind that for the purpose of granting bail, the
 legislature has used the words "reasonable grounds for believing" (emphasis in original) 17. From the aforesaid principles, it is quite clear that an order of bail
 cannot be granted in an arbitrary or fanciful manner. In this context, we
 may, with profit, reproduce a passage from Neeru Yadav v. State of
 U.P. [(2014) 16 SCC 508 : (2015) 3 SCC (Cri) 527] , wherein the Court
 setting aside an order granting bail observed : (SCC pp. 514-15, para 16)
 "16. The issue that is presented before us is whether this Court can
 annul the order passed [ Mitthan Yadav v. State of U.P. , 2014 SCC
 OnLine All 16031] by the High Court and curtail the liberty of the
 second respondent? We are not oblivious of the fact that the liberty is
 a priceless treasure for a human being. It is founded on the bedrock of
 the constitutional right and accentuated further on human rights
 principle. It is basically a natural right. In fact, some regard it as the
 grammar of life. No one would like to lose his liberty or barter it for
 all the wealth of the world. People from centuries have fought for
 liberty, for absence of liberty causes sense of emptiness. The sanctity
 of liberty is the fulcrum of any civilised society. It is a cardinal value
 on which the civilisation rests. It cannot be allowed to be paralysed
 and immobilised. Deprivation of liberty of a person has enormous
 impact on his mind as well as body. A democratic body polity which is
 wedded to rule of law, anxiously guards liberty. But, a pregnant and
 significant one, the liberty of an individual is not absolute. [The]
 society by its collective wisdom through process of law can withdraw
 the liberty that it has sanctioned to an individual when an individual
 becomes a danger to the collective and to the societal order. Accent
 on individual liberty cannot be pyramided to that extent which would
 bring chaos and anarchy to a society. A society expects responsibility
 and accountability from its members, and it desires that the citizens
 should obey the law, respecting it as a cherished social norm. No
 individual can make an attempt to create a concavity in the stem of
 social stream. It is impermissible. Therefore, when an individual
 behaves in a disharmonious manner ushering in disorderly things
 which the society disapproves, the legal consequences are bound to
 follow. At that stage, the court has a duty. It cannot abandon its
 sacrosanct obligation and pass an order at its own whim or caprice. It
 has to be guided by the established parameters of law." This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:06:00 40. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav
 and Another, (2004) 7 SCC 528, the Supreme Court has held as under: (See Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh [(2002) 3 SCC 598 : The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:06:00
 had given liberty to renew the bail application in future, were not grounds
 envisaged under Section 437(1)(i) of the Code. This Court also in specific
 terms held that the condition laid down under Section 437(1)(i) is sine qua
 non for granting bail even under Section 439 of the Code. In the impugned
 order it is noticed that the High Court has given the period of
 incarceration already undergone by the accused and the unlikelihood of
 trial concluding in the near future as grounds sufficient to enlarge the
 accused on bail, in spite of the fact that the accused stands charged of
 offences punishable with life imprisonment or even death penalty. In such
 cases, in our opinion, the mere fact that the accused has undergone certain
 period of incarceration (three years in this case) by itself would not entitle
 the accused to being enlarged on bail, nor the fact that the trial is not
 likely to be concluded in the near future either by itself or coupled with the
 period of incarceration would be sufficient for enlarging the appellant on
 bail when the gravity of the offence alleged is severe and there are
 allegations of tampering with the witnesses by the accused during the
 period he was on bail. xxx xxx xxx 20. Before concluding, we must note that though an accused has a
 right to make successive applications for grant of bail the court
 entertaining such subsequent bail applications has a duty to consider the
 reasons and grounds on which the earlier bail applications were rejected.
 In such cases, the court also has a duty to record what are the fresh
 grounds which persuade it to take a view different from the one taken in
 the earlier applications. In the impugned order we do not see any such
 fresh ground recorded by the High Court while granting bail. It also failed
 to take into consideration that at least on four occasions order refusing
 bail has been affirmed by this Court and subsequently when the High
 Court did grant bail, this Court by its order dated 26-7-2000 cancelled the
 said bail by a reasoned order. From the impugned order, we do not notice
 any indication of the fact that the High Court took note of the grounds
 which persuaded this Court to cancel the bail. Such approach of the High
 Court, in our opinion, is violative of the principle of binding nature of
 judgments of the superior court rendered in a lis between the same parties,
 and in effect tends to ignore and thereby render ineffective the principles
 enunciated therein which have a binding character." 41. In Satish Jaggi v. State of Chhattisgarh and Others , (2007) 11 SCC
 195, the Supreme Court observed as under: 42. It is emphasized by the Courts time and again that economic offences
 are a class apart and must be dealt differently even for considering an
 application for grant of bail. With regard to gravity and seriousness of
 offences in a case of economic offences, careful scrutiny needs to be
 undertaken by the Courts. In Sunil Dahiya (supra), this Court observed that
 even though the Court at the stage of granting bail has to take a prima facie
 conspectus of case, people would lose trust in the judicial system if an
 accused was released on bail. It was observed that loss of public funds has
 a far-reaching objective and therefore economic offences are serious
 offences. In Neeru Yadav (supra), the Supreme Court observed that the
 Court was not oblivious of the fact that liberty is a priceless treasure for a
 human being founded on the bedrock of constitutional rights but the
 liberty of an individual is not absolute. Society by its collective wisdom
 through process of law can withdraw the liberty it has sanctioned to an
 individual when he becomes a danger to the collective and to the societal
 order. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:06:00 43. Noticeably, applicant is chargesheeted under Section 120-B read
 with Sections 206 / 409 / 411 / 420 / 424 / 465 / 468 / 477-A IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of PC Act and maximum punishment could be
 life for some offences, on conviction and thus in this case even the severity
 of the punishment is a glaring factor, which needs serious consideration.
 Mr. Pahwa repeatedly and consistently argued that at the highest the
 applicant can be charged for an offence under Section 411 IPC as he has
 nothing to do either with DHFL or the Wadhawan Brothers and/or the loan
 transactions with the consortium of 17 banks. The extent of involvement of
 the applicant and whether or not his role is restricted to being a mere
 custodian of paintings etc, would be a matter of trial and no final
 conclusion can be drawn at this stage, one way or the other. It is, however,
 settled that while considering the bail application Court can enter into
 prima facie examination to see if there is any material to support the
 allegations. Documentary evidence collected so far; statements of the
 witnesses under Section 161 Cr.P.C. available at this stage; the undisputed
 fact that the paintings were recovered from the residence of the applicant;
 his repeated interactions with the Wadhawan Brothers during their
 hospitalisation in judicial custody for sale of paintings; alleged execution of
 a back-dated MoU to receive a portion of the sale proceeds as commission
 and the more serious allegation of conspiring to conceal, divert and dispose
 of the funds of DHFL, generated from the borrowings of the consortium of
 banks led by UBI are factors which cannot be glossed over and in this light
 the mere fact that Charge Sheet has been filed against the applicant cannot
 be the only reason to enlarge him on bail. I am fortified in my view by the
 judgments of the Supreme Court as aforementioned and of this Court in Mukesh Jain (supra). This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:06:00 44. In the Status Report filed before this Court as well as before the
 Trial Court, CBI has taken a serious and consistent stand that the
 applicant is an influential person with a considerable clout in Mumbai and
 other parts of Maharashtra and there is every possibility that he will
 influence the witnesses, if released on bail as most of the witnesses are
 private witnesses. Trial Court has rendered a categorical finding on this
 aspect against the applicant after considering the facts and circumstances. In one of the earliest judgments in Gurcharan Singh and Others v.
 State (Delhi Administration ), (1978) 1 SCC 118, the Supreme Court
 highlighted two paramount considerations for grant of bail: (a) likelihood
 of the accused fleeing from justice and tampering with prosecution
 evidence. There is yet another aspect of the matter. Conduct of the
 applicant on interim bail reflects his tendency to misuse the concessions
 granted by the Courts and a propensity to manipulate. Trial Court has
 rendered a finding that the applicant was time and again seeking extension
 of medical bail by exaggerating his medical ailments by manipulating
 records with the help of doctors in the private hospitals. CBI has stated
 before this Court on an affidavit that while on interim medical bail,
 applicant was on luxury holidays and in and out of parties, including
 gambling, basis photographs and videos in public domain and misused the
 medical bail to the hilt. This not only speaks volumes of the conduct of the
 applicant but also shows that he suffers from no serious medical ailments
 for which he should be enlarged on regular bail. The apprehension of CBI
 that applicant can influence witnesses and tamper with evidence,
 considering his clout in Mumbai, where he met Wadhawan Brothers in
 judicial custody without permission, is not entirely unfounded. In my
 considered view, applicant does not qualify any parameter for grant of BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 35 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:06:00
 regular bail seen holistically, at this stage. 45. Application is accordingly dismissed with the usual caveat that no
 observation made in this order shall be construed as an expression on the
 merits of the case. JYOTI SINGH, J
 MAY 31 , 2024/B.S. Rohella BAIL APPLN. 353/2023 Page 36 of 36 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/06/2024 at 22:06:00