CRM-3191-2026

 Application is allowed as prayed for subject to all just exceptions. This is the first petition under Section 482 of the Bharatiya

Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, for pre-arrest bail in case bearing FIR

No.342 dated 21.11.2024, registered under Section(s) 318(4), and 61(2) of the

Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 and under Section 66-D of the Information

and Technology Act, 2008, at Police Station Cyber Crime, District Gurugram.

2 Succinctly, the case of the prosecution is that the complainant,

Sharmili Chopra, submitted an application to the police alleging that she had

been a victim of cyber fraud. It is stated that she was telephonically contacted

by persons identifying themselves as Chandra Takal and Sarah Smith, who

claimed to be associated with M/s. Daiwa Securities. The said persons created

a WhatsApp group as well as a group on the Telegram application under the

name "Reserve A3 Unifield Layout Plan for Bankers," through which they

induced the complainant to invest in the stock market. The complainant

opened an account on the website "m.dwa-ai.com" and, acting upon the

representations made to her, she transferred a total sum of ₹1.98 crores from

her three bank accounts. 3 During the course of investigation, it was revealed that the said

amount was transferred into eight different bank accounts. In the first layer of

transactions, a sum of Rs.10 lakhs was transferred into the Bandhan Bank

account of one Parmod Deshmukh. In the second layer, the amount was

further transferred into the HDFC Bank account of Manoj Kumar who was

arrested on 10.03.2025. During interrogation, he made a disclosure to the

effect that in the year 2023, when he had met with an accident and was

admitted in Zem Hospital, his cousin, Jitender son of Mahender Singh, met

 2 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -3-

him and informed him that he knew of a company, desirous of routing funds

through various accounts to evade tax liabilities. He persuaded Manoj Kumar

to open a bank account and provide the same to the said company in

consideration of monetary benefit. Manoj Kumar is stated to have agreed and,

a few days thereafter, Jitender arrived along with two other persons,

whereupon Manoj Kumar signed certain documents and issued a cheque book,

which were taken away. He is stated to have claimed that he neither received

any consideration nor had knowledge of subsequent transactions in the said

account. Jitender was thereafter arrested on 10.03.2025.

4 Upon completion of investigation, challan was presented against

Manoj Kumar, Jitender, Sachin and Vikas. Subsequently, it was revealed that

account No. 20100030368142 in the name of M/s. Mahakal Krishi Sewa

Kendra had received Rs.10 lakhs in connection with the alleged fraud. The

said account was found to belong to Pankaj Nagar, who was arrested on

15.07.2025. Thereafter, Shyambir was arrested on 05.08.2025 and Rajiv

Jangra was arrested on 27.08.2025 and a supplementary challan was filed

against Pankaj, Shyambir and Rajiv. Nitin Kumar was arrested on 22.09.2025.

Investigation further revealed that a sum of Rs.25 lakhs had been transferred

into the account of Triputi Balaji Motors, owned by Neeraj Sharma (petitioner

herein), in the Bank of Maharashtra. It was also found that on 07.09.2024, a

further amount of Rs.20 lakhs was transferred into the account of Triputi

Balaji Motors, owned by Neeraj Sharma, in the Bank of India. Thereafter, a

sum of Rs.10 lakhs is stated to have been withdrawn by him through a cheque.

5 Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner(s) raises the

following arguments: - (i) That there is no specific allegation to the effect that the

 petitioner(s) had either induced, influenced or otherwise

 persuaded the complainant or any other person to make any

 investment.; (ii) That the petitioner has already entered into a settlement with

 the person aggrieved and, therefore, his custodial interrogation is

 not warranted; (iii) That the prosecution case rests entirely upon documentary

 evidence already in possession of the investigating agency and,

 therefore, custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not required

 for discovery of any new fact or material. (iv) That the petitioner is a bona fide businessman carrying on

 business, a legitimate partnership concern, and that the bank

 accounts in question are regular business accounts opened and

 operated strictly in accordance with the prescribed Know Your

 Customer (KYC) norms and regulatory compliances. (v) That the allegations, at best, would only be that the bank

 account of the petitioner was used by certain fraudsters in

 furtherance of their unlawful designs and no active participation,

 in the commission of the offence, is attributable to him.

6 A status report by way of an affidavit of Vikas Kaushik, HPS,

Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber, Gurugram, District Gururam, on

behalf of respondent-State has been filed in the Court today. A copy thereof has

been supplied to the counsel for the petitioner. transferred a sum of Rs.1.98 crores to the different accounts that were being

maintained by the petitioner. The relevant part of the status report is extracted as

under: - 5 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -6-

 said bank account was registered in the name of Gupta Builders
 and one Sachin was the proprietor of the same. It ok had transpired
 that said Sachin was in custody in connection with investigation of
 another FIR bearing number 337 of 2024 registered at PS Cyber
 East, Gurugram. Accordingly, the presence of co-accused Manoj
 was procured by way of issuance of production warrants and on
 25.03.2025, he was joined with the investigation of the present case
 and was arrested receipt upon of appropriate incriminating
 evidence against him. He was interrogated while being in custody
 and upon interrogation, he suffered his disclosure statement
 admitting his involvement in the commission of present case. 10. That during the course of investigation, it had transpired that
 from the first layer beneficiary account bearing number
 20100031477716 maintained by one Surjeet Sarkar with Bandhan
 Bank, an amount of Rs. 3,25,000/ had been transferred to 2nd layer
 account bearing number 50100745626542 maintained by one
 Vikas Jangra with the HDFC Bank. Said Vikas Jangid was
 apprehended on 27.03.2025 and was arrested of upon receipt
 appropriate incriminating evidence against him. He was
 interrogated while being in custody and upon interrogation, he
 suffered his disclosure statement admitting his involvement in the
 commission of present crime. He further disclosed the complicity of
 one Rajeev Jangra. According to the inputs provided, offence
 punishable under Section 66D of IT Act was added to the case... xxx xxx xxx 12. That during the course of investigation, it had transpired that
 an amount of Rs. 10 lakhs had been transferred from the
 complainant's bank account to account number 20100030368142
 maintained by M/s Mahakal Krishi Seva Kendra with the Bandhan
 Bank. The record of the said account was obtained and from the
 perusal of the same, it transpired that the proprietor of the said firm
 was one Pankaj Nagar. On 15.07.2025, said Pankaj Nagar was
 apprehended and was joined with the investigation of the case. He
 was arrested upon receipt of appropriate incriminating evidence

 6 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -7-

 against him. He was interrogated while being in custody and upon
 interrogation, he suffered his disclosure statement admitting his
 involvement in the commission of present case. He disclosed that
 he had sold his bank account to one Shubham, however, he did not
 know his address or whereabouts. 13. That during the course of investigation, record of beneficiary
 account number 60495240713, in which an amount of Rs. 8 lakhs
 had been credited, maintained with Bank of Maharashtra was
 obtained and from the perusal of the same, it transpired that the
 said account was registered in the name of Shyam Bir Singh. On
 05.08.2025, said Shyam Bir was joined with the investigation of the
 case. He was arrested upon receipt of appropriate incriminating
 evidence against him. He was interrogated while being in custody
 and upon interrogation, he suffered his disclosure statement
 admitting his involvement in the commission of present case. 14. That during the course of investigation, on 27.08.2025, accused
 Rajeev Jangra was apprehended and the was joined with
 investigation of the case. He was arrested upon receipt of
 appropriate incriminating evidence against him. He was
 interrogated while being in custody and upon interrogation, he
 suffered his disclosure statement admitting his involvement in the
 commission of present case. xxx xxx xxx 16. That during the course of investigation, it had transpired that
 Rs.69,30,000/- had been transferred from the complainant's bank
 account to account number 20100031477716 maintained by S.S.
 Traders, proprietor Sanjay Mukherjee and Surjeet Sarkar, with the
 Bandhan Bank. From the said Bandhan Bank account, an amount
 of Rs.2.5 lakhs had been transferred on 19.09.2024 to account
 number 24400100009665 maintained with Federal Bank belonging
 to one Nitin Kumar. Said Nitin Kumar was joined with the
 investigation of the case on 22.09.2025 and was arrested upon
 receipt of appropriate incriminating evidence against him. He was

 7 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -8-

 interrogated while being in custody and upon interrogation, he
 suffered his disclosure statement admitting his involvement in the
 commission of present case. 17. That during the course of investigation, it had transpired that
 an amount of Rs. 2,30,000/-had been transferred to the second layer
 beneficiary account bearing number 20100030256126 maintained
 by M/s Metro Shoes with Bandhan Bank. Records of the said
 account were obtained and it transpired that the said account was
 in the name of Rajiv Kumar. Said Rajiv Kumar was arrested on
 05.11.2025 upon receipt of appropriate incriminating evidence
 against him. He was interrogated while being in custody and upon
 interrogation, he suffered his disclosure statement admitting his
 involvement in the commission of present case. xxx xxx xxx 19. That during the course of investigation, it had transpired that
 an amount of Rs.50 lakhs had been transferred in the beneficiary
 account bearing number 20100029600446 maintained by M/s
 Shourya Enterprises, proprietor Promod Deshmukh, with the
 Bandhan Bank. From the said Bandhan bank account, an amount
 of Rs. 14,31,000/ had been found to have been transferred to
 account number 10189162144 maintained with IDFC Bank and out
 of the said amount, an amount of Rs, 9 lakhs had been withdrawn
 vide self-cheque. Records of the said beneficiary account were
 obtained and from the perusal of the same, it had transpired that
 the said account was registered in the name of one Pradeep Kumar.
 Said Pradeep Kumar was joined with the investigation of the case
 on 04.12.2025 and was arrested upon receipt of appropriate
 incriminating evidence against him. He was interrogated while
 being in custody and upon interrogation, he suffered his disclosure
 statement admitting his involvement in the commission of present
 case. He disclosed that he used to get opened the bank accounts and
 used to give the bank account kit to his son Tushar and Lakshay. 23. That during the course of investigation, it had transpired that
 an amount of Rs.25 lakhs had been transferred on 06.09.2024 from
 the account of the complainant to one account bearing number
 60502628030 maintained by M/s Tirupati Balaji Motors,
 proprietor Neeraj Sharma (the petitioner herein), with
 Maharashtra Bank. From the said beneficiary Maharashtra Bank
 account, on 07.09.2024, an amount of Rs. 20 lakhs had been
 transferred to account number 3852172661 maintained by M/s
 Tirupati Balaji Motors, Proprietor Neeraj Sharma with the Central
 Bank of India. Thereafter, an amount of Rs. 10 lakhs had been
 withdrawn from the Central Bank of India through cheque. Efforts
 were made to apprehend the petitioner and to join him with the
 investigation of the case, however, he kept on evading his arrest. 24. That in so far as the role of the petitioner is concerned, the
 investigation has revealed that Rs.25 lakhs out of the total duped
 amount had been transferred in the account maintained by the
 petitioner in the name of Tirupati Balaji Motors Maharashtra. trail
 The with of Bank of transaction revealed that the petitioner had
 thereafter withdrawn an amount of Rs.6 lakhs in cash from his
 account and thereafter, on 07.09.2024 itself, he had transferred the
 amount of Rs.20 lakhs in another account maintained by him in the
 name of Tirupati Balaji motors with Central Bank of India, Hardoi.
 The said fact is duly corroborated from the statement of account
 pertaining to account number 60502628030 in the name of Tirupati
 Balaji Motors, statement whereof is appended to as ANNEXURE R- 1. The investigating agency has collected the record from the Bank
 of Maharashtra, which shows that the petitioner happens to be the
 proprietor of the Tirupati Balaji Motors. The GST registration
 certificate in this regard in being appended to as ANNEXURE R-2.
 After having effected the said transfer, petitioner had withdrawn an
 amount of Rs.10 the lakhs from the said account on 07.09.2024
 itself. The statement copy of the bank of the petitioner's account
 account maintained with the Central Bank of India is being
 appended to along with the present affidavit as ANNEXURE R-3. 25. That the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is very much
 necessary to ascertain the modus operandi adopted by him and the
 other co-accused and further to ascertain the identities of other
 accused person involved in the commission of present crime and
 further to recover the duped amount. 26. That the law is settled that the gravity of the offence and manner
 of commission thereof are a vital consideration while adjudicating
 upon the aspect of grant or refusal of concession of the anticipatory
 bail. Thus, this being so, the totality narrated herein above does not
 warrant the grant concession of anticipatory bail to the petitioner. 27. That apart from the present case, the complicity of the petitioner
 has also been found in the following cases as well: - 8 Au contraire, learned state counsel submits that it is evident from a

perusal of the aforesaid status report that a sum of Rs.25 lakhs was credited into

the account of the petitioner on 06.09.2024. It is further contended that an amount

of Rs.20 lakhs was subsequently transferred to another account and a further sum

 10 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -11-

of Rs.10 lakhs was withdrawn through different cheques. She further submits

that the petitioner is also involved in two other cases of similar nature, particulars

whereof have been set out in paragraph 27 of the status report and are reproduced

below: - 9 I have heard learned counsel appearing for the respective parties

and have gone through the documents appended along with the present

petition. 10 It is evident that the petitioner is specifically a beneficiary in the

transaction. It is highly unlikely that a person running a business would simply

allow his account to be used for heavy financial transactions or hand over his

cheque book. A quick withdrawal of huge sum reflects conscious awareness

of the monetary receipt and withdrawal of the unlawful amount received into

the same. 11 His criminal antecedents further dent his bona fide. His repeated

involvement in similar offences shows that he is not new to the crime. with the complainant, however, the same alone does not confer a right on an

accused to claim bail. A cybercrime is not akin to any traditional offence

against property and Court has to examine the impact of the crime.

13 It is a settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that offences do

not assume the character of being compoundable merely by reason of a private

settlement between the parties. Section 320 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973 enumerates the offences that may be compounded and

specifies whether such compounding is permissible with or without the

permission of the Court. In cases falling under Section 320(2) Cr.P.C., the

parties cannot, by mutual consent, confer upon themselves a right to terminate

the prosecution. They are compoundable only with the permission of the

Court and such permission is not to be granted as a matter of course but is

subject to judicial scrutiny, keeping in view the nature and gravity of the

offence and its impact on society. 14 Cyber offences, particularly those involving inducement to invest

through digital platforms, creation of fictitious online identities and siphoning

of large amounts of money through structured banking channels, are required

to be dealt with sternly. The increasing sophistication of such crimes poses a

grave threat to public confidence in financial institutions and digital platforms

and cannot be reduced to a matter of private settlement. In an era where

commerce and governance are increasingly digitised and interlinked, the

ramifications of such offences extend beyond the immediate parties and may

generate cascading consequences across sectors. The erosion of trust in

financial systems and technological frameworks poses a serious threat to

 12 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -13-

economic order and public welfare. This court bears a solemn obligation to

protect not only individual victims but also the collective interests of society.

Therefore, the right to compound cannot be asserted as a matter of course

when the allegations disclose serious economic offences with wider societal

ramifications. In such cases, the larger public interest must prevail over

individual compromise. 15 The administration of criminal justice is an institutional function

of the State, undertaken to preserve societal order and ensure accountability

for unlawful conduct. The culmination of such proceedings cannot be made

contingent solely upon free will of the complainant, especially where the

allegations prima facie indicate a pattern of transactions involving multiple

accounts and several individuals. It also merits consideration that in cases

involving cyber fraud, the complainant who approaches the investigating

agency may not necessarily be the sole victim of the alleged scheme and such

offences are seldom isolated or singular in character. The digital architecture

through which such offences are committed increases the likelihood that

similarly placed investors or participants may have been induced into

comparable transactions. The detection of one complaint may thus represent

only the surface of a more deep rooted and organised activity. In matters of

this nature, a thorough and comprehensive investigation is imperative and

must be carried to its logical conclusion so as to ascertain the full extent of the

criminal enterprise, the number of victims who may have been defrauded and

the precise role and involvement of each accused. To curtail the process at an

intermediate stage would risk frustrating the discovery of material facts and

undermining the larger objective of justice. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 13 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -14-

matter of Balaji v. Karthik Desari , (2024) 19 SCC 625 has held that criminal

prosecution is primarily the responsibility of the State and it cannot be

compromised by private settlements between the complainant and the

accused, particularly where such settlements undermine public justice. The

relevant extract thereof reads as under : play, good conscience and the fundamental principles of criminal
 jurisprudence. In fact, the case on hand is one where there are two
 teams just for the purpose of record, but no one knows who is
 playing for which team and where the match was fixed. xxx xxx xxx 68.The investigation and trial of a criminal case cannot be
 converted by the complainant and the accused into a friendly

 14 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -15-

 match. If they are allowed to do so, it is the umpire who will lose
 his wicket. 16 Having given thoughtful consideration to the factual matrix as

noticed hereinabove, I am not persuaded to accept the prayer merely because

the petitioner entered into a settlement with the complainant and the

immediate grievance of the individual victim stands seemingly redressed. The

same cannot be construed as a ground to condone the criminality. The

allegations disclose the commission of serious offences involving organized

cyber fraud, layered financial transactions and diversion of substantial sums

of money through multiple bank accounts. Such offences cannot be construed

as disputes of a purely private or personal character. They constitute offences

against society at large, affecting not only the immediate victim but also

undermining the integrity of the financial and digital ecosystem.

17 Evidently, the entire chain of transaction shows that it is a large

operational group carrying out criminal activities through multiple bank

accounts. The layered movement of funds, the interplay of several account

holders and the withdrawal and onward transfer of substantial sums prima facie

reflect the functioning of an organized network designed to camouflage the

source and destination of the proceeds and to remove their transactional

footprints. In the face of such material, it is inconceivable that the petitioner was

not aware of the substantial credits, transfers and withdrawals effected through

his bank accounts. Banking transactions of the magnitude alleged herein cannot

reasonably be presumed to have occurred without the knowledge or approval of

the account holder. Invariably, the only conclusion that can be drawn, at this

stage, is that the petitioner was an active participant in the transactional chain

 15 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -16-

and a beneficiary of the proceeds generated therefrom. Having taken a conscious

decision to involve himself in criminal activities, the petitioner cannot claim

equities in his favour merely by portraying that he is holier by agreeing to return

the proceeds or by effecting restitution to the aggrieved person.

18 The complexity of the financial trail and the manner in which

funds were routed through different accounts indicate that only a

comprehensive and in-depth investigation would unravel the complete extent

of the alleged conspiracy and identify all persons involved. At this stage, to

stifle the prosecution on the basis of a bilateral compromise would be

premature and contrary to the larger interests of justice.

19 It is also pertinent to note that the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in In

Re: Victims of Digital Arrests related to Forged Documents [Suo Motu Writ

Petition (Criminal) No. 03 of 2025], vide order dated 17.11.2025, declined to

grant bail to the accused therein until the investigation had reached its logical

conclusion. The Apex Court observed that offences involving digital fraud

and forged documentation raise issues of grave concern, having wide-ranging

implications for public trust and systemic integrity.

20 Criminal law is not designed merely as a compensatory

mechanism to redress individual grievances, but also operates as a normative

and deterrent instrument to preserve public order and uphold societal

discipline. In cases involving organised financial or economic fraud, the

element of deterrence assumes particular significance. Such offences are often

calculated, profit-driven and executed with deliberation. If criminal

proceedings in such matters were to be routinely compounded solely on the

ground that the accused has subsequently repaid the amount involved, it

would risk setting a dangerous precedent. It may encourage offenders to treat

 16 of 17 ::: Downloaded on - 20-02-2026 23:54:53 ::: CRM-M-4401-2026 (O&M) -17-

criminal prosecution as a negotiable contingency by retaining illicit gains so

long as detection is avoided and entering into a compromise with the victim

only if apprehended. The law cannot countenance a situation where repayment

becomes a stratagem to evade penal consequences. To permit such an

approach would dilute the deterrent force of criminal law and undermine

public confidence in the administration of justice.

21 The present petition thus lacks bona fide and is accordingly

dismissed.