Heard. Rule. Rule made returnable forthwith. 2. With consent of learned counsel for the parties, the

petition is taken up for final hearing. Mr. K.R. Lule, learned APP for

respondent No.1/State and Ms. Payal Lunawat, learned counsel for

respondent No.2. 3. In both these writ petitions, the petitioners are

challenging First Information Report (FIR) No.94/2024 registered

with the Ambajari Police Station, Nagpur for an offence punishable

under Sections 406 and 420 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal

Code, 1860 (for short " IPC "). Mr. Najeem Haneefa Rawther-

Petitioner in Writ Petition No.314/2024 and Shri Vijayan Pillai S/o.

Sonkara Pillai-Petitioner No.1 and Smt. Vijyakumari Vijayan Pillai-

Petitioner No.2 in Writ Petition No.315/2024, are hereinafter

referred as "petitioners". The facts as is alleged in the First Information Report are
as follows : 4. The respondent No.2, filed a complaint stating therein

that, he was engaged in work of lamination and garage in the name

of "M/s. S.S. Engineering and Fabrications", and that his home town

is Kayamkullum, Alapuzha District, Kerala. There were cordial

relations between the informant and the petitioners, as they were

staying near his home town and petitioners in Criminal Writ Petition

No.314/2024, were running petrol pump in the name of "Jaya Fuels" 5. It was further stated in the complaint that in the year

2014, petitioners again demanded an amount of Rs.1,50,00,000/-

(Rupees One Crore Fifty Lakhs Only) and offered to sell "Jaya Fuels" Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 6 and "Account Closed". As the informant had invested an amount of

Rs.64,00,000/- (Rupees Sixty Four Lakhs Only) and on that 30%

profit was assured, which was not paid by the petitioners, FIR came

to be registered against the petitioners in both the petitions. 6. Mr. Nihalsingh Rathod, learned counsel for the

petitioners strenuously submitted, that considering the allegations

made in the FIR no offence is made out. He submitted that, as per

the allegations made by the informant, the amount in question was

paid prior to 10 years back i.e. 2012 to 2014. The informant has

lodged FIR after a period of 10 years and the said delay has not been

explained by the respondent No.2 and therefore, on this count alone,

as the filing of FIR is after a period of 10 years the same is fatal to

the prosecution case. 7. He further submitted that, considering the nature of the

allegations, even if, taken as it is, no offence is made out as the

entire transaction is civil in nature. The informant has tried to

convert the civil dispute into criminal one. In fact, if the entire

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 7 allegations are taken at its face value, no offence is made out against

the petitioners. 8. Considering the entire allegations made against the

petitioners, he invited our attention to the FIR registered against the

petitioners. The petitioners specifically alleged that the petitioner

No.1 and his wife i.e. petitioner No.2 (in Writ Petition No.315/2024)

are running the petrol pump namely Jaya Fuels. 9. The learned counsel for the petitioners further submits

that Mr. Vijayan Pillai one of the petitioner in Criminal Writ Petition

No.315/2024 entered into an agreement of sale, along with

installations, with one Smt. Sujata Thaj, by receiving an advance

consideration. However, Smt. Sujata Thaj could not manage to raise

sufficient funds to obtain the registered Sale Deed and therefore,

with her permission Smt. Vijayakumari Vijayan Pillai another

petitioner in Writ Petition No.315/2024 executed an agreement of

sale of the land in favour of Shri Gopal Krishnan, who promised to

pay the entire sale consideration within a period of 60 days with an

understanding that Mr. Gopal Krishnan will be permitted to operate

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 8 the petrol pump. However, Mr. Gopal Krishnan did not comply with

his assurance and therefore, a dispute arose. Even Mr. Gopal

Krishnan filed a civil suit i.e., Original Suit No.7/2015, before the

Sub-Court, Mavelikkara, seeking a decree of specific performance

against the petitioners Vijayan and Vijayakumari. The said suit was

subsequently dismissed by the Competent Court, directing the return

of advanced consideration amount. The petitioners have specifically

stated that they had never asked the respondent No.2 to invest an

amount of Rs.64,00,000/- (Rupees Sixty Four Lakhs Only) and

giving of profits of 30% from the income of the petrol pump business

to the informant as is alleged in the FIR. 10. Learned counsel for the petitioners further invited our

attention to the FIR No.54/2023 which was lodged by Mr. Gopal

Krishnan, by alleging an online fraud of Rs.12,50,000/- (Rupees

Twelve Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) for the offence punishable under Sections 406 and 420 read with Section 34 of IPC, registered against

the petitioners. He also submitted that, after perusal of FIR

No.54/2023 and impugned FIR No.94/2023, there is no reference

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 9 about the earlier FIR bearing No.54/2023. In the said complaint, the

respondent No.2 never alleged about any such transaction and

suppressed the information of complaint filed by the Mr.Gopal

Krishnan. It was alleged that the Mr.Gopal Krishnan and respondent

No.2 to harass the petitioners filed a false/frivolous complaint and,

Mr.Gopal Krishnan is using the respondent No.2 as a front man to

harass the petitioners. 11. Learned counsel for the petitioners submit that, in view of

the allegations made in the FIR, no offence is made out. He urged

that continuation of the criminal proceedings against the petitioners

is nothing but misuse of the process of law. There is an inordinate

delay in filing FIR and also dispute is civil in nature, he submits that

delay is not explained and continuation of criminal proceedings is

misuse of process of law. He relied upon the following Judgments :- 1996 through his lawyer specifically denying the alleged
 agreement and the payment of Rs 1,25,000 as advance.
 Nothing was heard thereafter and the complainant after
 keeping quiet for nearly 3 years filed private complaint
 under Section 200 CrPC before the IVth Additional CMM,
 Bangalore on 17-5-1999. The learned Magistrate on the
 same date directed his office to register the case as PCR and
 referred the same to the local police for investigation and to
 submit a report as per Section 156(3) CrPC. A charge-sheet
 was filed on 4-8-2000 by the police against the appellant-
 Accused 1 only for offence under Section 420 IPC. The
 learned Magistrate took cognizance of the alleged offence
 under Section 190(1)(b) CrPC and issued summons to the
 accused-appellant herein. Aggrieved by the aforesaid
 process order dated 4-8-2000 passed by the Magistrate, the
 appellant-accused preferred the above criminal revision
 which was dismissed by the High Court for the reasons
 stated therein. 11. As already noticed, the complaint was filed on
 17-5-1999 after a lapse of 10-1/2 years and, therefore, the
 very private complaint filed by Respondent 1 is not at all
 maintainable at this distance of time. It is the specific case of
 Accused 1 that he has not executed any agreement to sell or
 received any advance payment. In our view, the complaint
 does not disclose the ingredients of Section 415 CrPC and,
 therefore, we have no hesitation to set aside the order
 passed by the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence
 alleged. It is also not clearly proved that to hold a person
 guilty of cheating, it is necessary to show that he had a
 fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the
 promise. The order of the Magistrate and of the High Court
 requiring Accused 1-appellant herein to face trial would not
 be in the interest of justice. On the other hand, in our
 considered opinion, this is a fit case for setting aside the
 order of the Magistrate as confirmed by the High Court for
 issuance of process and the proceedings itself. 12. We, therefore, set aside the impugned order of
 the High Court and of the Magistrate. The complaint is
 liable to be dismissed on the question of inordinate laches
 on the part of the complainant himself. Viewed from any

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 11 angle, we do not find any good reasons to maintain the
 order passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court
 confirming the orders of the Magistrate. Accordingly, this
 appeal stands allowed and the judgment and order dated
 17-2-2004 in Criminal Revision Petition No. 932 of 2000 of
 the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore is set aside. 2. Thermax Limites and Others Vs. K.M. Johny and Others reported in (2011) 13 Supreme Court Cases 412 :- For these reasons, the order passed by the Judicial

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 12 Magistrate, First Class, Pimpri in CC No. 12 of 2002 on 20-
 8-2007 and the judgment of the High Court dated 11-1-
 20081 in Criminal Writ Petition No. 1622 of 2007 are set
 aside. The complaint filed by Respondent 1 herein is
 quashed. 3. Deepak Gaba and Another Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh
 and Another reported in (2023) 3 Supreme Court Cases 423 :- Pertinently, this Court, in a number of cases, has noticed
 attempts made by parties to invoke jurisdiction of criminal
 courts, by filing vexatious criminal complaints by
 camouflaging allegations which were ex facie outrageous
 or pure civil claims. These attempts are not to be
 entertained band should be dismissed at the threshold. To
 avoid prolixity, we would only like to refer to the judgment
 of this Court in Thermax Ltd. v. K.M. Johny 12, as it refers
 to earlier case laws in copious detail." In Suresh Vs. Mahadevappa Shivappa

Danannava (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court, concluded that Section

420 of IPC is not made out on the ground of delay and laches and

the dispute being of civil nature, thereby quashed and set-aside the

orders of Magistrate and the High Court. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter of Thermax Limites and Others Vs. K.M. Johny and Others ( supra),

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 13 cautioned the Courts regarding the difference between civil and

criminal wrongs. There can be a situation, where the allegations may

contain both civil and criminal grounds. Court must cautiously

examine the facts to ascertain whether they only constitute a civil

wrong or if the ingredients of the criminal wrong are missing and

thereby, quashed the order passed by the Magistrate. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter of Deepak Gaba and Another Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another (supra) has held that in number of cases the parties are invoking

jurisdiction of Criminal Courts by filing the criminal complaint

though allegations are purely civil in nature. Therefore, the law laid

down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the above referred judgments,

are squarely applicable to the present case. 12. Mr. K.R.Lule, learned APP submits that upon the receipt

of complaint from the respondent No.1 i.e. the Investigating Agency

lodged the FIR and investigation commenced. The investigating

agency, recorded statement of the complainant as well as the earlier

and present manager of Jaya Fuels. The investigating agency

collected the documents in the matter of such agreement between

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 14 the parties, Bank Details of account of complainant and other

property details as well as cheques which were dishonored. 13. Learned APP submitted that the Investigation Officer went

to Kerala and investigated the matter, however, the whereabouts of

the petitioners could not be traced, and he stated that the

investigation is still in progress. He further submitted that it is

apparent, from the statement of the informant and the documents

collected by the Investigating Officer, which reveals that the amount

invested by the informant was not returned to him. He further

pointed out that the FIR No.54/2023 for an offence punishable

under Sections 406 and 420 read with Seciton 34 IPC was registered

against the petitioners and on that count it was stated that the

petitioners are having criminal antecedents and specifically stated

that the present petitioners having not returned the amount to the

informant and the cheques being dishonored on that count, learned

APP submits that there is prima-facie involvement of the petitioners

and prayed to dismiss the complaint. 14. Ms. Payal Lunawal, learned counsel for the respondent

No.2, vehemently opposed the prayer of petitioners and pointed out

that the petitioners, since the beginning, with a dishonest intention

cheated the complainant and in-spite of an assurance given by them,

neither the principal amount was returned, nor 30% profit was paid

by the petitioners. The learned counsel for the respondent No.2

further stated that she has already filed an application before this

Court and brought to the notice regarding the forgery committed by

the petitioners. She invited our attention to the letter dated

15.10.2022, at page No.384 of the record and pointed out that the

petitioners informed the respondent No.2 and accepted their liability

of an amount of Rs.64,00,000/- (Rupees Sixty Four Lakhs Only) with

an interest accrued thereon @18% and relying on the said letter, the

counsel for respondent No.2 submitted that the petitioners have

cheated the respondent No.2 and prayed to dismiss both the

petitions. 15. After hearing learned counsel for the petitioners, learned

APP and learned counsel for the respondent No.2, we have gone

through the documents filed by all the parties and after considering

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 16 the submissions advanced, it is necessary to refer to the law laid

down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of State of Haryana and

Others Vs. Bhajanlal and Others reported in 1992 Supp (1) Supreme

Court Cases 335, wherein, the Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down the

principles for quashing of FIR. The guidelines specified by the

Hon'ble Court in Bhajanlal's case (supra) are as follows :- The Hon'ble Apex Court in the Bhajanlal's

case (supra) has held that the extra-ordinary powers under Article

226 or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code, should

be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any Court or

otherwise to secure the ends of justice and the Hon'ble Apex Court

has laid down the guidelines wherein such power should be

exercised. After going through the guidelines, we hold

that the allegations made in the First Information Report lodged by

the respondent No.2, if taken at their face value and accepted in its

entirety, do not prima-facie constitue an offence or make out case

against the accused as the dispute is purely civil in nature. In view

of the allegations made in the complaint, in our considered

Pvf
 Judgment CR WP 314-2024 18 opinion, the same does not constitute cognizable offence, so as to

justify the registration of the case and any investigation thereon,

and therefore, to secure the ends of justice under extra-ordinary

jurisdiction, the FIR is liable to be quashed. 16. We have gone through the contents of the FIR as well as

the documents placed on record. We notice that all the transactions

as stated by the respondent No.2, pertains to the year 2012 to 2014.

Thereafter, till the year 2024, there was not a single complaint filed

by the respondent No.2, alleging cheating at the hands of petitioners. 17. After going through the specific contentions raised by the

respondent No.2 in FIR, it is very clear that the respondent No.2 in

clear terms has stated that petitioners have assured the informant on

the investment of an amount of Rs.64,00,000/- (Rupees Sixty Four

Lakhs Only) an assured profit of 30%. Therefore, if on the amount

which was invested, profit was not paid, in such case, the respondent

No.2 would have a remedy to initiate a civil proceeding to recover

the said amount. 18. In the matter in hand, there appears no element of

cheating. The offence punishable under Sections 406 and 420 read

with Section 34 of IPC is not made out against the petitioners. In

view of facts emerging from the record, it is clear that the parties are

governed by their respective agreement/assurance and if there is any

breach, then the parties are entitled to avail civil remedies available

under the law. The criminal proceeding cannot be used to recover

the amount, and to settle their civil dispute. Even if, the entire

allegations made by the respondent No.2 are taken, as it is, on its

face value, no offence is made out against the petitioners. The

proceedings are civil in nature, and it is not proper to convert the

same into the criminal proceedings. Therefore, considering the above

referred facts and the law laid by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State

of Haryana Vs. Bhajanlal (supra), the continuation of the criminal

proceedings against the petitioners is a misuse of the process of law.

Therefore, in view of the above mentioned facts, we are inclined to

allow both the writ petitions. Hence, we pass the following order :- Rule is made absolute. (SIDDHESHWAR S. THOMBRE, J.) (ANIL L. PANSARE , J.)

Pvf